---
tags: press-briefings
date: '2021-03-08'
modified_time: 2021-03-08 14:07:46-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/03/08/press-briefing-by-white-house-covid-19-response-team-and-public-health-officials-12/
published_time: 2021-03-08 14:07:45-05:00
title: "Press Briefing by White\_House COVID-\u206019 Response Team and Public Health\_\
  Officials"
---
 
Via Teleconference

11:02 A.M. EST

ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Thank you for joining us.  It was an
important weekend for the President and the American people.

President Biden came into office with two clear, immediate goals: mount
a vaccination program to turn the tide on the pandemic and pass a rescue
plan to bring the nation through these tough times successfully.  

This weekend, we took critical steps on both fronts.  On Saturday, the
Senate passed the American Rescue Plan.  In the face of what is one of
the country’s greatest challenges Americans have ever faced, this
historic legislation will cut child poverty in half, put $1,400 checks
in the pockets of 85 percent of the country, fund our schools so they
can reopen safely and so our kids can catch up quickly, and create 7
million jobs.  And importantly, it gives America the resources we need
to defeat the pandemic.  It demonstrates government once again is
working for the people.

On that very same Saturday, we set a new record for single-day recorded
vaccinations.  We are vaccinating a seven-day average of nearly 2.2
million Americans a day, up from about 900,000 when we came into office.
 Saturday was as high as 2.9 million doses reported administered — a new
daily record — and we’re at a pace seen nowhere else around the world.
 This is a function of everyone executing to their fullest, and it
depends on vaccination sites being open late and the tireless effort of
vaccinators.  

While all of this is challenging, our message is: Keep going.  I know
the pace is challenging.  This is a war, and we can’t let up.  

Last week, the President announced we’d have enough vaccine for every
adult in America by the end of May.  Turning those vaccine doses into
vaccinations requires more vaccinators and more vaccination sites.  We
must continue to get these vaccinations efficiently and equitably
distributed to the public.  

We’ve already provided more than $4.1 billion to states, tribes, and
territories to support more than 500 community vaccination sites.  The
American Rescue Plan includes tens of billions more in funding to scale
up our vaccination program.  

Many states are now running vaccination sites 24 by 7.  Slots are being
reserved for teachers and people in hard-hit ZIP codes, and we’re
getting more vaccinators — from the military to retired doctors and
nurses — into the field.  

We are in a historic crisis, and we have reason to have confidence that
we will prevail.  But we are not done, and we must keep up the pace of
progress and remain vigilant.  

Joining me today is Dr. Walensky, Dr. Fauci, and Dr. Nunez-Smith.  And
with that, I will turn it over to Dr. Walensky to talk about our next
steps on our path back.

DR. WALENSKY:  Good morning and thank you.  I’m glad to be back with you
today.  Let’s get started with an overview of the pandemic.  The most
recent seven-day average of cases is about 59,000 cases per day.
 Importantly, on the far right of the graph, you can see that there is a
leveling off of the decline.  And the most recent seven-day average of
deaths is slightly lower than 2,000 deaths per day.  

These numbers show us that the pandemic still remains a very serious
situation with the most communities continuing to have high levels of
COVID-19 transmission.  We are watching these data closely to see where
the pandemic will head in the coming days.  

But I’m also hopeful.  As of today, 59 million people in the United
States have received at least one dose of COVID-19 vaccine, and
approximately 31 million or 9.2 percent of the U.S. population is fully
vaccinated, putting us on a strong path to eventually end this pandemic.
 And as you just heard, we are now vaccinating more than 2 million
people per day.  

We’ve been through a lot this past year.  And with more and more people
getting vaccinated each day, we are starting to turn a corner.  And as
more Americans are vaccinated, a growing body of evidence now tells us
that there are some activities that fully vaccinated people can resume
at low risk to themselves.  

This is why, today, CDC is releasing its initial guidance for the public
that, for the first time, lays out some of the activities considered
safe for those who are fully vaccinated.  When I say “fully vaccinated,”
I mean people who are two weeks after their second dose of either the
Pfizer or Moderna vaccines, or two weeks after a single dose of the
Johnson & Johnson vaccine.  

Before I talk about the specific recommendations, I want to underscore a
few important points.  First, robust clinical trial data demonstrate
that the current COVID-19 vaccines are highly effective at protecting
vaccinated people against severe illness, hospitalization, or death from
COVID-19.  However, there is still a small risk that vaccinated people
could become infected with milder or asymptomatic disease, and
potentially even transmit the virus to others who are not vaccinated.
 Understanding the size of this risk in vaccinated people and the risk
of transmitting the virus to others who are not vaccinated is an ongoing
area of research.  

Second, it’s important to note that this is initial guidance.  The
science of COVID-19 is complex and our understanding of the virus
continues to rapidly evolve.  The recommendations issued today are just
a first step.  As more people get vaccinated and the science and
evidence expands, and as the disease dynamics of this country change, we
will continue to update this guidance.

Importantly, our guidance must balance the risk to people who have been
fully vaccinated, the risks to those who have not yet received a
vaccine, and the impact on the larger community transmission of COVID-19
with what we all recognize to be the overall benefits of resuming
everyday activities and getting back to something — to some of the
things we love in life.  

It’s against this backdrop and the current state of the pandemic that we
have developed these new recommendations.  With today’s initial
guidance, it’s important to note that we are focusing on activities
fully vaccinated people can resume in private settings, such as their
homes, under two scenarios.  

The first scenario is fully vaccinated people visiting with other fully
vaccinated people.  In this slide, these individuals are represented by
solid green circles.  In this scenario, CDC recommends that fully
vaccinated people can visit with other fully vaccinated people in small
gatherings indoors without wearing masks or physical distancing.
 Remember, here we are talking about private settings where everyone is
vaccinated.  

So what does this mean?  If you and a friend or you and a family member
are both vaccinated, you can have dinner together \[without\] wearing
masks, without distancing.  You can visit your grandparents if you have
been vaccinated and they have been too.  

Now I want to talk to you about another more complicated scenario: It
involves vaccinated people visiting with unvaccinated people.  When
fully vaccinated people visit with unvaccinated people, we have to
consider the underlying risks of the unvaccinated people and any
unvaccinated members of their household.  We take this approach because
all of our guidance is rooted in making sure we are keeping people safe.
 

So, CDC recommends that fully vaccinated people can visit with
unvaccinated people from one other household, indoors, without wearing
masks or physical distancing, as long as the unvaccinated people and any
unvaccinated members of their household are not at high risk for severe
COVID-19 disease.

In the slide, people who are vaccinated at a low risk for severe
COVID-19 are indicated by solid orange circles.  This means that none of
the unvaccinated people or any unvaccinated members of their households,
for example, are an adult over age 65 or have an underlying condition —
such as cancer, heart disease, or diabetes — that could increase their
risk of COVID-19 related hospitalization or death.  

Here is an example: If grandparents have been vaccinated, they can visit
their daughter and her family, even if they have not been vaccinated, so
long as the daughter and her family are not at risk for severe disease.
 They are solid orange circles.

Second, if an unvaccinated individual or any unvaccinated member of
their household are at high risk for severe disease, shown here by
hollow orange circles, everyone, regardless of vaccination status,
should still wear a mask and physically distance and choose to meet
outdoors or in a well-ventilated space.  This is recommended to keep the
individuals at high risk who are unvaccinated safe. 

Similarly, when fully vaccinated people are visiting with unvaccinated
people from multiple households, everyone should wear masks and
physically distance and meet outdoors in a well-ventilated space.  

Moving on to quarantine, away from visiting.  In addition to these new
recommendations on visitation in private settings, CDC’s new guidance
also recommends that fully vaccinated people do not need quarantine or
get tested following a known exposure to someone with COVID-19 as long
as they are asymptomatic.  At this time, the CDC is not adjusting
current guidance on travel.  

We believe these new recommendations are an important first step to our
— in our efforts to resume everyday activities in our communities.
 However, we remain in the midst of a serious pandemic and still over 90
percent of our population is not fully vaccinated, though we are working
hard to get there. Therefore, everyone, whether vaccinated or not,
should continue to avoid medium- and large-sized gatherings, as well as
nonessential travel, and, when in public spaces, should continue to wear
a well-fitted mask, physically distance, and follow other public health
measures to protect themselves and others. 

COVID-19 continues to exact a tremendous toll on our nation.  Like you,
I want to be able to return to everyday activities and engage with our
friends, families, and communities.  Science and the protection of
public health must guide us as we begin to resume these activities.  

Today’s action represents an important first step; it is not our final
destination.  As more people get vaccinated, levels of COVID-19
infection decline in communities.  And as our understanding of COVID
immunity improves, we look forward to updating these recommendations to
the public.  

I know this is complex and I’ve covered a lot of ground this morning, so
I want to recap the main points of our initial guidance released today. 

In summary, fully vaccinated people can visit with other fully
vaccinated people indoors without wearing a mask or physical distancing;
visit with unvaccinated people from a single household who are at low
risk of severe COVID-19 disease, indoors, without wearing masks or
physical distancing; and refrain from quarantine and testing following a
known COVID-19 exposure if the vaccinated person remains asymptomatic. 

For now, we will continue to examine this in the upcoming weeks as — and
update our guidance accordingly.  Fully vaccinated people should
continue to take precautions in public like wearing masks and physical
distancing; wear well-fitted masks and physically distance and adhere to
other prevention measures when visiting with unvaccinated people who are
at increased risk of severe COVID or who have an unvaccinated family
member — household member who has an increased risk of COVID; wear
masks, physically distance, and practice other prevention measures when
visiting with unvaccinated people from multiple households; avoid
medium- and large-sized crowds; get tested if experiencing COVID-19
symptoms; follow guidance issued by individual employers; and follow CDC
and health department travel recommendations. 

As I close, I want to stress that we have — we continue to have high
levels of virus around the country, and more readily transmissible
variants have now been confirmed in nearly every state.  While we work
to quickly vaccinate people more and more each day, we have to see this
through.  Let’s stick together. Please keep wearing a well-fitting mask
and taking the other public health actions we know work to help stop the
spread of this virus. 

Thank you so much for your time today, and I will now turn things over
to Dr. Fauci.

DR. FAUCI:  Thank you very much, Dr. Walensky.  I’d like to just spend a
couple of minutes now on a different topic, and that has to do with
investigational therapeutics for COVID-19. If I could have the first
slide. 

On a previous briefing, I had mentioned to the group that there were a
number of investigational therapeutics, including monoclonal antibodies,
convalescent plasma, immunomodulators, et cetera.  What I want to do
today for a couple of minutes is talk about the issue of direct-acting
antivirals.  If I could have the next slide. 

The strategy for direct-acting antivirals in the future will be a
process that we have done with other infections, which I’ll get to in a
moment, and that is the identification of vulnerable targets after study
of the replication cycle of the virus — in this case, SARS-CoV-2 — and
then, to design drugs to directly inhibit that vulnerable target.  Next
slide. 

We have been extraordinarily successful in this with HIV. Now, targeted
drug development, which is the terminology we use for this approach —
“targeted drug design” — has occurred before HIV, particularly with the
herpes viruses.  But it really got into its own frame with HIV.  

And the reason I say that is that that was the first of the
extraordinarily successful results of targeted drug design.  And the
reason and the mechanism that we got there — next slide — was to
delineate the replication cycle of the virus.  In this case, you see in
the upper left, HIV binding to it’s now well-described receptors: the
CD4 molecule and one of its core receptors.  It fuses, it enters, the
RNA reverse transcribes, it integrates its DNA into the cellular DNA,
then transcribes out and buds off. 

Over the years of intensive study — next slide — each of those
vulnerable targets has led to a different class of a highly effective
antiretroviral drug, including the reverse transcriptase inhibitors, the
protease inhibitors, the integrase inhibitors, and the fusion and entry
inhibitors.  

Next slide. 

This has led to now an extraordinary number of drugs which, when used in
combinations, have transcribed — has transformed, excuse me, the life of
HIV-infected individuals, giving them almost a normal lifespan, although
the drug needs to be given, essentially, for the rest of their lives.  

Next slide.  

That same principle is now being applied to SARS-CoV-2, because here’s a
comparable life cycle.  Obviously there are differences here.  Again, in
the upper left, you’ll see SARS-CoV-2, by virtue of its spike protein,
binding to its ACE2 receptor, binding to the membrane, fusing, entering,
and then a whole bunch of steps that I need not go through that involve
a variety of enzymes, which ultimately lead to the virion release — on
the lower right-hand part of the slide.  

Next slide.  

With the same strategy that was used with HIV, we will be screening and
then proactively designing entry inhibitors, protease inhibitors,
polymerase inhibitors, and others.  

Next slide. 

And then, if you look at what’s been going on right now and take each of
these very briefly, there are early-stage, non-monoclonal antibody
candidates in preclinical development, such as peptides and small
proteins blocking entry.  

With regard to polymerase inhibitors, the FDA has already approved
remdesivir from Gilead.  And just this past week, we’ve heard of
molnupiravir from Ridgeback Biotherapeutics and Merck, in which they
published the preliminary analysis of their phase-two trial that showed
a quicker decrease of infectious virus in participants with symptomatic
disease.  Just two days ago, Atea Pharmaceuticals reported favorable
safety and pharmacokinetic data from phase-one trial.  And Pfizer now is
in a phase-one trial with a protease inhibitors.

I show this to the group because this is really the beginning of the
phase of looking in a strategic way for direct-acting antivirals, which
are going to be used to prevent people from progressing in their
disease, mainly keeping them out of the need for hospitalization.  

And on this final slide, for those of you who want to get more detail:
Just this past November, the NIH had an NIH SARS-CoV2 Antiviral
Therapeutics Summit looking at the state of therapeutics gaps in the
field, and a number of our public-private partnerships.  You can get
this on the NIH website.  And I encourage you, for those who have any
interest in it, to take a look at that because that is the direction
that we will be going over the next weeks, to months, to two years.  

I’ll stop there and hand it over to Dr. Marcella Nunez-Smith

DR. NUNEZ-SMITH:  Thank you so much, Dr. Fauci, and good morning to
everyone.  I’m going to talk, of course, today about equity.  And you’ve
heard us describe that equity is at the foundation — the center of this
administration’s COVID-19 response.  You know, over the last month in my
time with you, I’ve detailed why that needs to be the case.  So we’ve
took a — we’ve taken a look at the differences in COVID-19 outcomes, for
instance, by race and ethnicity.  

And since the beginning of this pandemic, we have all seen that factors,
you know, like race, ethnicity, rural versus urban geography, poverty,
disability, living situation, and type of employment — they all are
exerting tremendous influence on the outcomes we’ve see in COVID-19.  

So I want to begin this morning by giving an update on the ongoing
inequities related to COVID-19.  So, first, let’s take a look at the
rates of COVID-19 cases, deaths, and vaccination by race and ethnicity.
 As you can see here, Latino individuals continue to bear more than
their share of COVID-19 cases, while black people continue to bear more
than their share of deaths.

Notably, you see the share of vaccinations is significantly —
significantly lower for Latino and non-Hispanic black individuals,
relative to their share of the general population.  And the same is true
for Asian individuals. 

This all still only tells part of the story as we remain limited by the
completeness of our data.  We only have race ethnicity data for 53
percent of those who have received their first dose of a COVID-19
vaccine.  This varies widely among the states, as you can see on the
next slide.  And we’re not getting from individuals, from providers, and
from states the critical information about who has access to these three
lifesaving vaccines that need to be equitably distributed across our
country. 

So I want to emphasize here: It is possible to do better.  The final
slide shows us the information that providers and states are reporting
to us on the age of people who they’re vaccinating.  So contrast that
with the data on the race and ethnicity of those same individuals. 

Again, we have critical ground that we must make up, but we cannot get
discouraged or feel like it’s insurmountable.  You know, all of the
evidence points to one simple truth: We can do this. 

So, like many of you, we’ve also seen a lot of conversation about
vaccine confidence, about how some communities — due to a range of
historical, as well as contemporary factors — are less inclined to
believe that these vaccines are safe and effective, less inclined to
trust the systems offering these vaccines, and less inclined to trust
the government asking them to get vaccinated.  So we still have some
work to do to meet people where they are. 

The administration is implementing a comprehensive national public
education campaign and we have been hosting roundtables with key
constituencies to make sure that we get that effort right.  We’re
building relationships with trusted messengers all over the country to
make sure they have the best information possible to share with their
communities.  But we cannot and we will not accept that these
differences in vaccine confidence are the end all and be all of the
difference in vaccine uptake that we’re already seeing.  

In the context of inequitable systems, we must take significant steps at
every level of intervention to bend the vaccination process towards
justice.  Now our success depends on our ability to build a robust and
coordinated effort at the local, state, and federal level to overcome
all of the dynamics that are in place, and this moment absolutely calls
for that kind of effort. 

So in light of everything that we’ve seen in the 84 days since our
nation began administered COVID-19 vaccines, we’re turning up the
expectations for this vaccine program on all fronts.  And we have a
series of federal programs that are a key part of our approach to
ensuring that all communities have vaccination access.  

First, we have our large community vaccination sites all over the
country.  So far, we have over 580 operational, federally supported
sites.  And over 170 sites are actively receiving on-site support by
federal personnel.  We’ve also been able to stand up a series of
federally established community vaccination centers.  And by the end of
this week, we’ll have 18 of those sites running across seven states with
the ability to administer 61,000 total shots per week.  

And each of our federal sites has been designed with key equity-oriented
features — so targeted geographic eligibility, weekend extended hours,
reserved slots for registration through faith-based and community-based
organizations, as well as deployment alongside mobile vaccination units
to help vaccinate surrounding communities.  

So we’re going to keep pushing to launch more and more of these sites
and dive into the data on each site to make sure they are achieving
their goal of improving vaccine equity in those communities.  

Second, we have our Federal Retail Pharmacy Program.  And this program
features chain and independent pharmacies across the country.  And as of
last week, we’re administering 2.5 million doses of the Pfizer/Moderna
vaccines, plus the additional supply that they received with the Johnson
& Johnson vaccine.  

We designed this Retail Pharmacy Program to ensure that one third of the
pharmacy sites were placed in communities with higher scores on the CDC
Social Vulnerability Index.  Those are populations at higher risk due to
factors like socioeconomic status, the composition of the household,
people of color, as well as housing types and transportation dynamics.  

So we’re going to press toward this mark to ensure that pharmacies are
selecting the communities with the greatest need.  And we’re going to
prioritize those pharmacies that do a better job addressing equity.  

And finally, we rolled out our federal community health centers
partnership program.  And over the past three weeks, we have been
onboarding the first 250 centers.  They collectively serve 12.5 million
people and span all 50 states.  You know, as a whole, these community
health centers provide services for large numbers of public housing
residents, people of color, and individuals with limited English
proficiency.  

So, as we look to the next phase of this program, we will prioritize
filling gaps in our coverage to the highest-hit — I’m sorry —
hardest-hit, highest-risk communities, whether they be urban or rural.
 And as we double down on the reach and impact of our federal programs,
we’ll continue increasing our vaccine supply to the states.  

And as we move forward, we’re calling on every state to show their work
too.  We’re asking our partners in the states to offer clear,
transparent equity goals for their residents.  And we’re also calling on
the states to help us get the data we need to know where we are and to
work with us to find creative solutions to the inequitable vaccine
uptake that has already emerged in these first months of the vaccination
program.  

So I just want to be clear that achieving equity is not an aspirational
goal; this is mission critical.  Absent equity, we will not be able to
stop this pandemic from continuing to claim lives, strain our healthcare
system, and weaken our economy.  But, by working together, we believe we
can hit the mark.  

So I thank you for your time.  And with that, I’ll turn it back over to
Andy. 

ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Thank you.  So we’ve covered a lot of
ground in our report-outs.  Before I turn for questions, I just want to
maybe briefly summarize a few things that we heard today.  Today, I
think we’ve begun to describe what a world looks like where we move
beyond COVID-19.  

Dr. Walensky outlined a first step for those of us who’ve been
vaccinated.  And I think it’s important to note that, as more and more
people get vaccinated, Dr. Walensky will continue to update us and that
list of activities will continue to grow.  

Dr. Fauci outlined ongoing strategies to allow for a life post-COVID to
become safer and safer.  And Dr. Nunez-Smith, I think importantly,
points out that this recovery is not an even picture.  And in fact, we
cannot fully get back to a place where we are approaching where we were
before COVID unless we do an important and good job reaching equity.  

So, I think a very hopeful morning, but with some continued warning
signs and hope for the future.  So with that, let’s take some
questions. 

MODERATOR:  Thanks, Andy, and we’re running a few minutes late today, so
we’re going to have to take a couple less questions.  But, first, we’ll
go to Ed O’Keefe at CBS. 

Q    Hi, guys.  Obviously, this is —

(Teleconference experiences technical difficulties.)

Q    We’re overlapping with the — can you hear me? 

ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  We can hear you both.  Yeah.  All right,
can you —

MODERATOR:  We’ll go ahead and go to — we’ll go to Zeke at AP. 

Q    Thanks, you all, for doing the call.  For Dr. Walensky, I was
hoping you could clarify why the CDC hasn’t — what the limiting factor
is in CDC not, sort of, putting out guidance to the effect of those who
have been fully vaccinated not been — not having to wear masks and being
able to travel and things like that.  You know, what is the limiting
factor?  Is it the background cases of the virus in the community?  Is
it the fact that enough — not enough people are vaccinated just yet to
get there?

And then can you just provide potentially a step of, sort of, what the
next set of guidance is going to be and what the triggers would be for —
you know, for people who are fully vaccinated being advised to be able
to remove their masks in public and, you know, go about a somewhat
normal life?

DR. WALENSKY:  Yeah, thank you for that question.  I think it’s
important to realize, as we’re working through this, that still over 90
percent of the population is not yet vaccinated and that it is our
responsibility to make sure, in the context of 60,000 new cases a day,
that we protect those who remain unvaccinated and remain vulnerable.  So
we’re doing our best to do that. 

I think it’s also important to remember that people who are vaccinated —
there’s increasing data now that suggests that they might get
breakthrough infections with lesser amounts of virus, lesser amounts of
disease, lesser symptomatic disease — milder disease.  However, we’re
still waiting for data to emerge about whether they could transmit that
virus to other people.  

So our next steps, in terms of putting out the guidance, as I mentioned,
is really to see a larger swath of the population vaccinated — we’re
actively on our way to doing that — as well as to hopefully see further
cases decline in the country, as well as waiting for new data to emerge.
 

So we’re hoping it’s in — you know, in a relatively short period of
time, but we do need to see some more new data as well.

ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Next question.

MODERATOR:  Next we’ll go to Shira Stein at Bloomberg. 

Q    Hi, thanks so much for doing this.  Can you explain what the
scientific justification is for not changing the travel guidance to
telling folks who are fully vaccinated that they should not be
traveling?  And how will this guidance affect folks’ willingness to get
vaccinated?

DR. WALENSKY:  In terms of travel, here’s what we know: Every time that
there’s a surge in travel, we have a surge in cases in this country.  We
know that many of our variants have emerged from international places,
and we know that the travel corridor is a place where people are mixing
a lot.  We are really trying to restrain travel at this current period
of time, and we’re hopeful that our next set of guidance will have more
science around what vaccinated people can do, perhaps travel being among
them.

ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  To the second part of your question:
Obviously, it will be pure speculation on our part, but we think that
this is part of a growing list of reasons why Americans do want to get
vaccinated.  We are already seeing increasing numbers of people wanting
to get vaccinated given the highly effective vaccines and given the very
good safety profiles.  And this list, which, as Dr. Walensky pointed
out, will continue to grow, we think, are a growing set of reasons why
people want to get vaccinated. 

Having said that, I think it’s important to note that the CDC makes its
decisions based upon what the science and the data tells them are the
right decisions, not for any other reasons.

Next question.

MODERATOR:  Okay.  I’m going to try Ed one more time.  I think he
figured it out.

Q    I did.  Thank you.  And let me follow up on the travel question
there because, Director Walensky, you explicitly said grandparents now
could go visit their daughter’s house and see the grandkids.  But in
many cases, that’s going to result in grandparents probably getting on a
train or a plane to go to a neighboring state or some other state to see
them.  

If a governor calls you today and says, “Okay, you just said people can
gather in homes, and this is going to cause people to start traveling
despite the urge not to,” what guidance would you give that governor
regarding vaccinated people coming back to their state?  Do they still
have to quarantine for a certain amount of time?  Or, at this point, can
they sort of disregard those travel restrictions if they’ve been
vaccinated and have been fully vaccinated within those two weeks after
their final shot?

DR. WALENSKY:  Our travel guidance is unchanged, and so we would
maintain whatever travel guidance is currently in place. We would like
to give the opportunity for vaccinated grandparents to visit their
children and grandchildren who are healthy and who are local, but our
travel guidance currently has been unchanged.

ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Okay, the next question.

MODERATOR:  All right.  And final question will go to Alice Park at
Time.

Q    Hello.  Can you hear me?  

ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  We can.

Q    Great.  This is a question for Dr. Fauci, and this has to do with
the studies you mentioned last week on the third dose.  Can you outline
for us what the metrics are that you’re going to be looking at in those
dose — in those studies, and what thresholds you will set for success or
to determine whether a third dose might be necessary or not?

DR. FAUCI:  Alice, there were two third-dose scenarios.  One was one
that Pfizer is pursuing, where they’re talking about giving a third dose
against the wild-type virus to boost up the level of neutralizing
antibodies.  The parameter there will be taking a look at what the level
of boost of antibody, because we do know from in vitro studies that when
you get a high level of antibody against the wild-type, it gives you a
cushion of effect against the variant.  

And the second third boost is one that we are doing in collaboration
with Moderna, where the boost will actually be a boost of a vaccine that
is directed specifically against the variant.  So there are two issues
there.  What we’re looking for in the second one is the level of
antibody that we will have boosted against, specifically, the variant,
as opposed to the level of antibody against wild-type, which you will
assume will give you some cross protection against the variant.

ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Thank you. 

Thank you all for joining.  This is a — I hope people view this as a
hopeful day in this next steps of the pandemic.  And we are here in no
small measure because of the safety and protection that many, many
Americans have taken with regard to their family, friends, and
neighbors.  We ask people to continue to do that so we can get there as
quickly and as permanently as possible.  

Thank you very much, and we’ll be here again on Wednesday.  
  
11:39 A.M. EST

To view the COVID Press Briefing slides,
visit <https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/03/COVID-Press-Briefing_8March2021_for-release.pdf>
