---
tags: press-briefings
date: '2021-03-22'
modified_time: 2021-03-22 13:17:37-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/03/22/press-briefing-by-white-house-covid-19-response-team-and-public-health-officials-18/
published_time: 2021-03-22 13:16:00-04:00
title: "Press Briefing by White\_House COVID-\u206019 Response Team and Public Health\_\
  Officials"
---
 
Via Teleconference

11:02 A.M. EDT

ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Good morning.  Thank you for joining us. 
We’re now two months into our national strategy to defeat COVID-19.  At
the heart of our plan are a number of critical activities. 

Vaccinations: We’ve had to significantly ramp up vaccine production to a
level more than double when we arrived, acquired enough vaccines to
vaccinate the population, and have set up a deadline — May 1st — by
which all Americans should be eligible to get a vaccine.

We’ve done this not only by increasing vaccine production, but also
adding thousands more vaccinators and thousands of additional locations
to get vaccinated.

We are now vaccinating about 2.5 million people per day, up from 900,000
when we arrived.  This weekend was the first time that the U.S. reported
vaccinating more than 3 million people on consecutive days.

There are now a total of 81 million people — or nearly 1 in 3 adults —
with at least one vaccine dose in the U.S., and 44 million who are fully
vaccinated.  Nearly 69 percent of seniors have now received their first
vaccination, and 42 percent are fully vaccinated.

A second core element of our plan is to get schools open and open
safely.  This has meant following the science, dramatically increasing
testing, and making it a priority to vaccinate teachers.  With $10
billion committed to testing so far, schools have enough resources to
properly test their students and staff.

Today, we’re taking another step in building an equitable and efficient
response.  The state of Washington will receive its first federally —
federal community vaccination site.  The Yakima County CVC will be able
to offer up to 1,200 shots per day.  Local residents will be able to
drive through the Central Washington State Fair Park and get a shot.

Now, this is the 22nd federally run vaccination site we’ve opened.  And
as you can see from some of the tweets on the screen here, these sites
get great reviews as a place to get vaccinated.  Combined, they deliver
nearly 100,000 shots per day.

All of the sites are in areas defined by the CDC as having a high social
vulnerability rating.  In fact, against the backdrop of inequity in
vaccine distribution generally, and the severe toll taken by the virus
on people of color, in federal vaccination centers, over 60 percent of
the shots have gone to people of color.

For example, Yakima County has been particularly hard hit throughout the
COVID-19 pandemic with disproportionately high infection and
hospitalization rates as compared to the rest of the state.

The President has set a goal of doubling the number of community
vaccination centers run by FEMA and the U.S. military to ensure that we
reach the hardest-hit communities in this historic effort.

We have much more work to do, but further progress was made this
weekend.

With that, I’m going to turn this over to Dr. Walensky and then to Dr.
Fauci for some important updates.

DR. WALENSKY:  Thank you, Andy.  I’m delighted to be back with you all
today.  Let’s start with an overview on the state of the pandemic.  The
most recent seven-day average is about 53,800 cases per day, which is a
slight increase from the previous seven-day period.  And over the past
two weeks, cases have continued to fluctuate somewhere between 50,000
and 60,000 daily cases. 

The most recent seven-day average for new hospital admissions is just
over 4,500 per day.  Like COVID-19 cases, hospital admissions have been
relatively stable over the last two weeks, hovering around 4,500 to
5,000 admissions per day. 

Deaths continue to decline — a lagging indicator — with the most recent
seven-day average of deaths slightly over \[sic\] 1,000 per day. 
Slightly under — sorry — 1,000 per day. 

The apparent leveling off of cases and hospital admissions after the
consistent declines we saw in these outcomes in early January through
the end of February I consider to be very concerning. 

In addition, while deaths continue to drop, they remain at elevated
levels.  And in the past week, the rate of decline of deaths has
slowed. 

We also know that the trajectory of the pandemic varies across the
United States, with some states and regions of the country, such as the
Northeast and the Upper Midwest, are beginning to again see a
significant rise in cases. 

Taken together, these statistics should serve as a warning sign for the
American people.  As I’ve stated before, the continued relaxation of
prevention measures while cases are still high, and while concerning
variants are spreading rapidly throughout the United States, is a
serious threat to the progress we have made as a nation. 

Increasingly, states are seeing a growing proportion of their COVID-19
cases attributed to variants.  The newly identified variant,
B1427/B1429, is estimated to account for 52 percent of cases in
California, 41 percent in Nevada, and 25 percent in Arizona.  And the
B117 variant is estimated to be responsible for 9 percent of cases in
New Jersey and 8 percent in Florida. 

Believe me, I get it — we all want to return to our everyday activities
and spend time with our family, friends, and loved ones.  But we must
find the fortitude to hang in there for just a little bit longer.  We
are at a critical point in this pandemic, a fork in the road, where we
as a country must decide which path we are going to take.  We must act
now.  And I am worried that if we don’t take the right actions now, we
will have another avoidable surge, just as we are seeing in Europe right
now and just as we are so aggressively scaling up vaccination.

Nearly 25 percent of the American population have received at least one
dose, and over 44 million people — about 13 percent of the population —
is fully vaccinated.  And we have more vaccine supply on the way. 

Until then, we must do everything we can to stop the spread of COVID-19
and the proliferation of variants while we get more people vaccinated. 

We now have 69 percent of adults over the age of 65 who have received at
least one vaccine dose and 42 percent who are fully vaccinated.  And we
have seen that the vaccines are working.  With increasing numbers of
those over 65 now fully vaccinated, we’re seeing the benefit.  For the
first time since last summer, the percent of those over 65 presenting to
our emergency departments because of COVID-19 is lower than those age 26
to 45 in the United States. 

These vaccines work.  We’re seeing it in the data.  There are positive
kinks in our curves.  And we need to remain vigilant as we quickly get
the rest of the American people fully vaccinated. 

I’m calling the American people to action, whether vaccinated or not, to
recommit to doing the right thing.  Take the steps we know work to stop
COVID-19: Wear a well-fitted mask, socially distant, avoid crowds and
travel, and be ready to roll up your sleeve to get vaccinated when the
vaccine is available to you. 

Thank you.  I’ll now turn things over to Dr. Fauci.

DR. FAUCI:  Thank you very much, Dr. Walensky.  We have some good news
today in the field of vaccine, and that has to do with the results that
were announced yesterday from the AstraZeneca trial.

As shown on this slide, there are three platforms that have six
companies involved.  For the discussion over the next couple of minutes,
we’re going to be looking at the chimp adeno vector that is used by
AstraZeneca, which yesterday revealed the results of their phase three
trial. 

Next slide. 

Just to refresh your memory, the vector that is used in this platform is
a chimp adenovirus in which the SAR-CoV spike protein DNA was inserted. 
That non-replication-competent harmless adenovirus is injected into the
muscle of an individual.  The DNA then codes for RNA, which then
essentially codes for the spike protein which the body makes the immune
response against.  That is the fundamental mechanism of this platform. 

Next slide. 

And so, the data: We’re talking about a phase three trial involving more
than 32,000 participants who are 18 years of age or older, and it was at
88 sites — mostly in the United States but also a small amount in Chile
and Peru — with a 2-to-1 randomization of vaccine to placebo. 

The demographic distribution is shown here.  Around 79 percent White, 22
percent Hispanics, 8 percent Black/African American, and 4 percent
Native Americans, including American Indians and Native Alaskans
residing in the United States, and 4 percent Asian.  Twenty percent was
65 years of age or older, and 60 percent had comorbidities associated
with an increased risk for progression of severe COVID-19, such as
diabetes, severe obesity, or cardiac disease.  This is important to get
that many people who have comorbidities. 

So right at the efficacy data, good results: 78.9 percent vaccine
efficacy of preventing symptomatic disease; importantly, with regard to
severe or critical disease requiring hospitalization, there was zero in
the vaccine arm and five in the placebo arm.  The good news is also that
there was comparable efficacy across ethnicity and age; namely, a very
good efficacy — 79.9 percent — in participants who are 65 years of age
or older. 

Next slide.

The reactogenicity and overall safety profile were good.  The vaccine
was well-tolerated, and the Data and Safety Monitoring Board identified
no specific safety concerns related to the vaccines.  Importantly, and
this is a quote from the DSMB, “No evidence of disproportionate risk of
thrombosis or events characterized by thrombosis among the 21,583
participants who received at least one dose.  An in-depth search of the
database for venous thrombosis revealed no events in this study.” 

Next slide.

The United States government has played a significant role in the
conduct of this trial.  It was funded by BARDA and by NIAID in a trial
led by the company AstraZeneca; the NIAID supported by its clinical
trial network, the CoVPN.  The Data and Safety Monitoring Board was
formed by NIAID, which monitored the trial to ensure safety and validity
of the data.  And NIAID intramural investigators co-authored key
preclinical studies. 

And finally, on the last slide: Importantly, this vaccine can be stored,
transported, and handled at refrigerator temperatures for at least six
months.  And also, importantly, conditional marketing authorization or
emergency use is already in play in more than 70 countries across six
continents, and it has been given emergency use listing by the WHO. 

I’ll stop there.  And back to you, Andy.

ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Thank you, Dr. Fauci, Dr. Walensky.

Let’s go to questions, please.

MODERATOR:  First question will go to Dan Vergano at BuzzFeed News.

Q    Thanks very much.  I’m wondering if you could comment on what you
see going forward, if we continue vaccinating the most high risk and
elderly, with regard to the death rates versus the case rates.  Are we
going to see much lower death rate overall with continuing, you know,
relatively high case numbers?  And does that communicate your message
about vaccination if the death rates decline?  Assuming that’s a great
thing, of course, but I wonder what kind of world we’re going to see
going forward with more — as more people get the vaccine.  Thanks.

ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Why don’t we start with Dr. Walensky and
then Dr. Fauci?

DR. WALENSKY:  Yeah.  It’s an important question for us to consider.  I
think one thing we have to realize is that there’s still a death rate
among people who are under the age of 65.  And that death rate is
certainly going to be consistent with the number of cases we have
overall. 

So while I consider it extraordinarily good news that our death rate is
declining in those who have been vaccinated, there is still a death rate
among those who are over, you know, 25 — over 20.  And, you know, as
those cases continue to increase in that demographic, we will see death
rates in that demographic as well.  So I think the messaging is very
consistent.  We still need to be vaccinating everyone who is eligible.

ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Dr. Fauci, anything you’d add?

DR. FAUCI:  No.  Just to underscore what Dr. Walensky said: Every time
we look at data, it looks at when you’re dealing with severe outcomes,
hospitalizations, and deaths — the vaccines, all of them, have a very
good track record.  So, as Dr. Walensky said, that just underscores the
importance of getting everybody vaccinated as quickly as we possibly
can. 

ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Great.  Thank you.  Next question.

MODERATOR:  Next we’ll go to Tom Howell at the Washington Times.

Q    Hey, thanks for doing the call.  With the AstraZeneca news and also
robust data from Novavax, it looks like both of those might get
emergency approval by May.  I’m just wondering how you’re thinking about
that in terms of supplies — the challenge shifting now to what to do
with any surplus; how to maintain interest in the shots here at home. 
How are you, kind of, working through, you know, whether we’re going to
have more supply than we need and what the challenges are now?  Thanks.

ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Thank you, Tom.  So, first of all, I’ll
start and then see if, Dr. Fauci, you want to add something.

So I think it’s too early for us to declare that we’re in a surplus
position.  We have been carefully planning.  We have — obviously, the
highest priority is to, as Dr. Fauci just said, to vaccine the U.S.
public as quickly as possible. 

So — but obviously, the more we get confidence in our increased supply,
the more flexibility that gives us for different events down the road,
whether it’s vaccinating adolescents, whether it is sharing that supply
with other countries, as we announced at the end of last week — four
more million doses were just shared with Mexico and Canada — or whether
it’s other events. 

So we are, obviously, monitoring the scenarios very closely and tracking
these closely.  Obviously, it is great news for both the U.S. and the
world the more vaccines and the more supply that exist.

Dr. Fauci, anything you’d add?

DR. FAUCI:  No, actually, Andy, you said it very well.  I just want to
underscore one aspect of it, which was on one of the slides that I
mentioned: that there are very many countries in Europe and throughout
the world who have already authorized this.  So the fact that a United
States-run study has confirmed the efficacy and the safety of this
vaccine I think is an important contribution to global health in
general. 

I’ll stop there.

ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Yeah, and something that, Dr. Fauci, you
may want to — both of us would say is: It’s important to just remind
everyone we cannot and will not get ahead of the FDA.  The FDA has
incredibly rigorous scientific process.  And so while we would certainly
call today’s news “encouraging” — it’s the kind of thing we like to see
— we have a rigorous process that will come once an EUA is submitted,
and that will give us all more information and reason to be comfortable.

Next question.

MODERATOR:  Let’s go to Jeremy Diamond at CNN. 

Q    Hey, thanks for doing the briefing, as always.  First of all, I’m
wondering, you know, we’ve been between 54- and 58,000 new daily cases
over the last two weeks.  You guys are warning about the potential risks
in that.  What more are you doing to encourage states to maintain or
re-impose coronavirus restrictions rather than relaxing them, as so many
are? 

And then, secondly, do you still expect Johnson & Johnson to deliver 20
million doses by the end of the month, which is just a week away now? 
Thanks.

ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  So, Dr. Walensky — Dr. Walensky, would
you like to take the first question about the kind of flattening of case
rates and things that we can be doing as a country?

DR. WALENSKY:  Yeah, I’d be happy to.  You know, we are looking at these
data.  We’re reaching out to individual states, trying to encourage
them.  We are having weekly governors’ calls.  We’re doing outreach with
states, territories to encourage them to look at their case data, to
look at what’s happening with the variants, and to do as much outreach
as we can to try and — to slow down the relaxation. 

ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Yeah.  And obviously you’ve heard the
President say, and you’ve heard our — both Dr. Fauci and Dr. Walensky
say that we believe it’s a mistake to get rid of mask mandates. 

Obviously, governors have certain authority there, but so do
corporations, so do employers, so do individuals.  And we’re making
concerted efforts to make sure that people know that whether or not
there’s a mandate in place, people that — it’s in the people’s strong
interest — strong interest — to continue to wear a mask until such time
that people have had a chance to be vaccinated.

On the Johnson & Johnson question: We are obviously working very closely
with the company.  We are going to see a nice increase in Johnson &
Johnson this week.  And we should have more information, you know,
around the first week in April to report on how they’ve done. 
Obviously, they’ve got a lot of increases that they need to be committed
to doing.  So we’ll continue to keep everyone posted.

Next question.

MODERATOR:  We’ll go to Rachel Roubein at Politico.

Q    Hi, thanks for taking my question.  I just wanted to follow up on
the last one from Jeremy.  Since April 1st is the end of next week, do
you think that J&J will have that 20 million shots?  Can you give us an
estimate of how many J&J shots are going out this week and how much
states are seeing in their projections for next week?

ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Yeah, I’m not going to give you precise
numbers.  Obviously, this is a ramped-up manufacturing process.  We’re
working with them very closely.  I don’t think — yeah, I wouldn’t signal
to you that they’re going to be far away from the numbers that they have
projected at all, give or take a little bit.  Obviously, we’re holding
them accountable and working closely with them. 

But with — at this point in time, I don’t want to commit to what’s going
to happen over the course of the coming week.  I would leave that to the
company.

Next question.

MODERATOR:  Next we’ll go to Nancy Cordes at CBS.

Q    Thank you.  How do you plan to deal with hesitancy surrounding the
AstraZeneca vaccine in particular?  Or do you anticipate that by the
time it’s in circulation, there will be so much supply of the other
vaccines that it really won’t matter? 

And then, given Dr. Walensky’s comments about the uptick in cases and
the fork in the road that the country is facing, what’s your guidance
for people who have been vaccinated when it comes to going on vacation? 
Because the TSA just reported that Sunday was its busiest air travel day
of the year so far.

ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Okay, so let me start with Dr. Fauci with
the first question, just to begin with the facts.  Because I think the
best — the best method for talking about people’s perception is to start
with the actual ground-truth facts.  It’s the reason we do these
briefings in the first place. 

So, Dr. Fauci, do you want to reiterate the points your — you — your
point of view?

DR. FAUCI:  Yeah.  The vaccine hesitancy surrounding AZ, related to
reports from the European group that there was a greater incidence of
thromboembolic events associated with the vaccine: During this trial
here, there was no indication at all.  Now, remember, you’re dealing
with 30,000 people in a trial. 

The important thing to point out is that when you give vaccine to
millions and millions of people, you got to make sure that when you look
at the occurrence of what could appear to be an adverse event, that you
essentially compare that into what the background of that type of event
would be anyway in society.  And the European Medicines Agency — the EMA
— indicated in their examination that they did not see an increased risk
of these types of events.  Of note, in the trial that I just reported
on, they did also not see this, even though it was only in 30-plus
thousand. 

But as Andy mentioned just a moment ago, the FDA is going to very, very
carefully go over all of these data.  There will be an application for
an EUA, and I can tell you, you can rest assured that the FDA will put a
great deal of scrutiny in every aspect of these data.

ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Yes.  And I just very much appreciate
that — those comments.  And it’s one of the reasons why it’s so
important people ask, “Why does the FDA take time to do their work?” 
People also ask, “Why do you make such a point of emphasizing the FDA’s
independence?” and “Why do you make such an important point about
emphasizing the transparency?”  It’s because the science is going to be
what the science is.  The results are going to be what the results are
going to be.  And the American public will need to hear that directly,
and it’s important that they have great confidence in what comes out of
our independent scientific agencies.

So we’re going to hold on any judgment, other than what Dr. Fauci has
indicated from these studies, until we hear from the FDA.  And they will
go through a very rigorous process, and after that, we will help
interpret the results to the public.

So there was a second question, which I think is for Dr. Walensky, which
is, I believe, commenting on travel and the uptick in travel.  And I
think there was a — part of that question was, you know, “What about the
vaccinated people that are traveling?”  I don’t think — what I saw, down
in Miami — it didn’t look like a whole bunch of vaccinated people, but I
could be wrong.  But maybe you want to address that one.

DR. WALENSKY:  Yeah, you know, as we’ve articulated before, CDC is
working on updated guidance for what you can do if you’re vaccinated,
and that will include travel. 

But I want to, sort of, go back to what Andy said, and that is: Much of
the travel, we know, is related to people who are going on spring
break.  For the most part, people who go on spring break are not the
demographic that we’ve been focusing in on travel.  We’re worried not
just for what happens when you are on the airplane itself, but what
happens when people travel.  That is, they go out; they mix — they mix
with people who are not vaccinated. 

We currently are at a situation — if we look at our European friends —
we just don’t want to be at this rapid uptick of cases again, and that
is very possible that that could happen.  We’ve seen that.  We’re behind
the eight ball when that starts to happen.  And that results in uptick
of cases, hospitalizations, and then death.

So we’re so close to vaccinating so many more people.  So I would just
encourage people and remind people: Now is not the time to travel.

ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT: I think that’s a great way to end this
briefing.  Thank you very much for listening in and your questions.  And
we will be back again on Wednesday.

11:28 A.M. EDT

To view the COVID Press Briefing slides, visit
<https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/03/COVID-Press-Briefing_22March2021_for-transcript.pdf>
