---
tags: press-briefings
date: '2021-03-26'
modified_time: 2021-03-26 16:16:25-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/03/26/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-jen-psaki-march-26-2021/
published_time: 2021-03-26 16:15:00-04:00
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Jen\_Psaki, March 26,\_2021"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

12:45 P.M. EDT

MS. PSAKI:  Hi, everyone.  Happy Friday.  We tried to make this
outdoors.  It was not technologically possible yet.  One day, maybe.

I have a couple of items for you at the top.  Today, as a part of our
“Help is Here” tour, the Vice President and Education Secretary Cardona
are traveling to New Haven, Connecticut, to emphasize a bold and
historic achievement of the American Rescue Plan: cutting child poverty
in half.  In Connecticut, they will hold a listening session at a Boys &
Girls Club and visit a child development center.

The American Rescue Plan makes the single biggest investment in
childcare since World War Two.  This is hopefully going to help bring
more women back into the workforce and address what the Vice President
and the President have both called a crisis.  It increases the Child Tax
Credit from $2,000 to $3,000 per child and $3,600 for children under the
age of six.  It also gives families an additional tax credit to help out
childcare costs for children younger than 13. 

As you all have probably seen, there have been some tornadoes in the
South.  We are monitoring those closely — the severe weather outbreak
that’s impacting, of course, the southeastern part of the United
States.  We extend our deepest condolences to the people in Alabama and
Mississippi who lost loved ones as a result of the severe weather
outbreak. 

We continue to be in close communication with state and local officials
and stand at the ready should a need for federal assistance be made or
be required.  We have not received requests at this point yet, but we
stand ready to respond to those should we receive those requests. 

Next week, this is a — we will update the week ahead.  This does not
have a lot in it, so — but next week, the President will continue laying
out his vision for the future of our country. 

On Monday, Tuesday, and Thursday, he will not be traveling.  He will be
doing public events at the White House.  We’ll have more details of
those in the coming days.  And on Wednesday, as all of you know, he will
travel to Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, where he will deliver a speech
laying out more details of his plan to build the economy back better.

And, with that, Josh, go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Jen.  Georgia has signed into law new restrictions on
voting.  President Biden has expressed his moral outrage over that. 
There’s legislation in Congress, but does the administration plan to
take any executive actions or file any lawsuits opposing these new laws?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, the administration has taken executive actions on
voting rights, and, of course, we will continue to review options in
that regard. 

I will say we expect to have a statement from the President on these —
these voting laws — this voting law, I should say, that passed in
Georgia.  He’s worried about how this initiative — how this initiative
sets in place allowing states to — preventing states, I should say, to
bring water to people standing in line waiting to vote; deciding what
you’re going to end vote — deciding to end voting at five o’clock when
working people are just getting off of work — making it more
challenging, not easier to vote; deciding that there will be no absentee
ballots under the most rigid circumstances.

Like the late Congressman John Lewis said, there’s nothing more precious
than the right to vote and speak up.  The President certainly believes
that.

There are pieces of legislation, as you noted, but — that he is watching
closely, that he will be engaging with members of Congress on, including
the For the People Act and the John Lewis Voting Rights Advancement Act
to make it easier for all eligible Americans to vote, to have access to
the ballot box, and to prevent attacks on the sacred right to vote. 

I’ll also note that when he was in Georgia just two weeks ago, he met
with Stacey Abrams while he was there, and he will also continue to
encourage and engage with outside leaders and activists on steps they
can take.

Obviously, there’s a range of groups and organizations that may take
legal action that will be leading in activism.  Some of that is going to
be more appropriate from outside of the White House.

Q    And then two more questions.  Japan’s Prime Minister has said he
expects to invite President Biden to attend the Tokyo Olympics when he
comes to the White House.  That would be a big statement about the
status of the pandemic worldwide.  Does the President plan to accept
that invite?

MS. PSAKI:  He hasn’t received it yet.  I want to go to the Olympics. 
Does that matter?  (Laughs.)

As we’ve said, we respected the decision to delay the Games last
summer.  We understand the careful considerations that the Japanese
government and the International Olympic Committee are weighing as they
prepare for the Tokyo Olympics this summer.  The government of Japan has
stressed that public health remains the central priority as they plan to
host the Games. 

We, of course, look forward to welcoming the Prime Minister to
Washington soon.  The date has not been formally set yet.  And beyond
that, I don’t have any predictions on what the President’s travel will
look like this summer.

Q    And then there’s this ship stuck in the Suez Canal.  Has the U.S.
offered to help or provide any kind of assistance to resolve the
problem?

MS. PSAKI:  We are tracking the situation very closely.  We understand
that Egyptian officials are working to remove the tanker as soon as
possible and continue traffic.

As part of our ap- — active, I should say, diplomatic dialogue with
Egypt, we’ve offered U.S. assistance to Egyptian authorities to help
reopen the canal.  We are consulting with our Egyptian partners about
how we can best support their efforts.  So those conversations are
ongoing, and hopefully we’ll have more to say about that soon. 

Go ahead, Steve. 

Q    Thank you.  We heard what the President said yesterday about
Afghanistan.  When do you think he will formally postpone the May 1
withdrawal date? 

MS. PSAKI:  Well, first, let me convey the President has not made a
decision at this point.  As he said yesterday, it would be tough to meet
the May 1st deadline for full withdrawal for logistical reasons.  That’s
consistent what — with what Secretary of State Tony Blinken also said in
Brussels earlier this week.  Any withdrawal plan will be informed by
consultation with key leaders within the administration and the thinking
of our partners and allies, which is, of course, what our Secretary of
State is working on doing. 

Our commitment is to bringing a responsible end to the conflict,
removing our troops from harm’s way, ensuring that Afghanistan can never
again become a haven for terrorists that would threaten the United
States or any of our allies.  But right now, we’re consulting with our
allies and partners, and the President has not yet made a decision.

Q    When do you think he will decide, Jen?  Is it imminent?  Or —

MS. PSAKI:  Well, obviously, May 1st is coming soon, but I don’t have
any timeline on when his decision will be made.

Q    And, separately, on North Korea, when do you expect your review of
that policy to be completed?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, we are in the final stages of our intensive
multi-stakeholder North Korea policy review.  And we’re, of course,
discussing our review with national security advisors of South Korea and
Japan at our trilateral dialogue coming up next week.  And those
consultations are an important part of our review process. 

Go ahead. 

Q    Thanks, Jen.  First, I want to follow on the Suez.  How concerned
is the U.S. about the blockage and its effect on global commerce, trade,
goods getting to the U.S. and other places?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, we do see some potential impacts on energy markets
from the role of the Suez Canal as a key bidirectional transit route for
oil.  And obviously, that’s one of the reasons we offered assistance
from the United States, and we are in close consultation with the
Egyptians about that.

We’re going to continue to monitor market conditions and we’ll respond
appropriately if necessary, but it is something we’re watching closely. 

Q    And then, on the pandemic: Dr. Redfield, the former CDC director,
said this morning that he believes that the virus originated from the
lab in Wuhan.  Does President Biden have any views on where the virus
may have originated, or has the U.S. come to a conclusion on that yet?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, as you know, the WHO is examining this and will be
releasing a report soon.  We’ll review that report once it’s available. 

We continue to learn more about the earliest days of the COVID-19
pandemic, including its origins, so we can better prepare for future
crises. 

I know Dr. Walensky addressed this and I think Dr. Fauci did as well
this morning, and we’ll look closely at that information when it’s
available.

Q    Are the President’s views being informed by that WHO report or his
advisors?  I mean, what is he —

MS. PSAKI:  By his health and medical advisors, certainly.  And so
they’ll review — they will be, of course, the people reviewing the
reports and more data when it becomes available.

Q    And then, last one on the forced labor in Xinjiang, in China.  Some
companies have come under pressure from the Chinese government, and some
retailers have actually dropped pledges not to use products made with
forced labor from that region.  So, you know, what is the U.S. doing to
stop or deter China from making those kind of threats against companies
that have resulted in this problem?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, we certainly have been watching this issue closely, as
you well know, and we’ve taken our own strong actions in order to
prevent China from profiting off of its horrific human rights abuses in
Xinjiang and to stop imports of products made with forced labor in
China. 

American consumers and consumers everywhere deserve to know that their
goods are — that the goods they are buying are not made with forced
labor, and many companies are standing up for consumers’ rights.

The international community, in our view, should oppose China’s
weaponizing of private companies’ dependence on its markets to stifle
free expression and inhibit ethical business practices.  So it is
something we are watching closely.

We’ve, of course, taken our own action.  I would expect that State and
Commerce will have more to say on this later today.

Q    And just one quick follow-up, though.  It’s — because it seems like
you’ve been having this message out there for the first couple months of
this administration, but it’s — China only seems more emboldened to
threaten these companies.  So what more can be done from the White House
to try to deter them from making these threats?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, we can work with our international partners,
obviously, as I conveyed, on how we’re going to push back on China’s
efforts to weaponize private companies.  And we can convey publicly, as
we are now, and of course engage with private sector entities about
these efforts. 

But a lot of that action would happen from Commerce and, in some cases,
the State Department.  And again, I expect they’ll have more specifics
to say later today on this. 

Go ahead, Kaitlan.

Q    A few questions.  On the WHO investigation that’s coming out, Jake
Sullivan, the National Security Advisor, said a few months ago that they
had deep concerns about the way the investigation was being conducted. 
Do they still have those deep concerns?

MS. PSAKI:  In part because there was a lack of transparency and there
was a lack of — we weren’t ensured that we would have access to the data
available, so there was a delay.  They actually delayed the release of
that report, which we were encouraged by.  We’ll have to take a look at
it and make sure we have access to the underlying information.

Q    So what happens if the report comes out and President Biden is not
satisfied with it?

MS. PSAKI:  Not satisfied with the report? 

Q    (Inaudible.)

MS. PSAKI:  Well, we’ve also — we’ve also called for an international
investigation and look into what’s — what’s happened and the origin —
not just the origin, I should say — the lack of transparency from the
Chinese.  We have reinstituted or reengaged with — through staffing of
our — of our team on the ground in Beijing. 

So we’ll see what the report says.  Where we have concerns, we’ll look
at the underlying data, if we have access to that.  And then we’ll have
to make a determination through an interagency process on what’s next. 

Q    And just to get some clarity on yesterday, are we — should we still
be expecting executive orders from the President on gun measures?

MS. PSAKI:  Yes.

Q    Imminently?  Or what’s — what do you — like a month from now?  Or
what do you think the timeframe on this is?

MS. PSAKI:  I can’t give you an exact timeframe, in part because they
have to go through a review process, which is something that we do from
here.

You know, I will note that, you know, when we — when the President was
the Vice President in the Obama-Biden administration, he helped put in
place 23 executive actions to combat gun violence.  It’s one of the
levers that we can use — that any federal government, any President can
use to help address the prevalence of gun violence and address community
safety around the country. 

At the same time, he continues to believe that there is an opportunity
to engage with Congress.  There are two background bill — background
check bills that are — have been proposed, have been introduced, have
been working their way through.  There have also been legislation
introduced to ban an assault weapon — ban assault weapons.

But he also believes that there is an opportunity — and sometimes that
the best path forward is working through states.  And there has been
progress made.  We’ve seen over the last several years: 20 states now
have extended background checks, 19 states have red flag laws, 7 states
now have assault weapons bans.  We know they work. 

And so we have to address this epidemic, address the threat of gun
violence across many avenues.  And he will — he’s committed to doing
that. 

Q    Okay.  And then also, does he have reaction to the Georgia state
representative who was arrested overnight when knocking on the Georgia
governor’s door as he was signing that election law?

MS. PSAKI:  I think anyone who saw that video would have been deeply
concerned by the actions that were taken by law enforcement to arrest
her when she’s simply — by the video that was provided — seemed to be
knocking on the door to see if she could watch a bill being signed into
law. 

The larger conc- — the largest concern here — obviously, beyond her
being treated in the manner she was — which is, of course, of great
concern — is the law that was put into place, which, again, the
President will — we’ll have a statement from the President, I expect,
later this afternoon on. 

It should not be harder, it should be easier to vote.  We should not put
limitations in place.  People should be able to vote from home.  They
should be able to use absentee ballots.  There should be a range of
restrictions that are undone, not put back in place.  And so that’s of
great concern — one he certainly shares with the — with the elected
official who was arrested.

Q    Does he plan to reach out to her?

MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have any calls to preview for you.  If he does, I
will certainly provide an update to all of you.

Go ahead.

Q    Thank you, Jen.  A couple follow-ups on yesterday.  The President
said he thinks the filibuster is a legacy of the Jim Crow era.  Did he
think that it was a legacy of the Jim Crow era in 2005 when he defended
the filibuster and said, “Altering Senate rules to help…one political
fight or another could become standard operating procedure, which, in my
view, would be disastrous”? 

MS. PSAKI:  Well, Peter, one of the things he talked about yesterday was
the fact that between 1917 and 1971, the filibuster was used about 58
times.  Last year — last year alone, it was used five times that many. 
It is not being used for the intended purpose.  It is being abused. 

And, yes, there are scenarios, as it as it relates to voting rights,
where it is — it is oppressing; it is — it is allowing for systematic
racism in the country.  So that’s the concern he was expressing.

Q    And a follow on that, there are some concerns on the right that if
you get rid of the filibuster, it effectively means one-party rule.  So
is that what the President was getting at when he was asked about 2024
and he said, “I have no idea if there will be a Republican Party.” 

MS. PSAKI:  Well, that certainly wasn’t what he was getting at, given,
as part of his answer, he conveyed that his objective and his hope is to
work with Republicans.  He wants to get work done for the American
people.  He wants to put in place solutions, put people back to work,
get the pandemic under control, make voting easier and more accessible. 

And it’s really on Republicans in Congress to decide if they’re going to
be part of the solution or if they’re going to be part of obstruction. 
So he’s leaving it up to them to make the decision on what role they
want to play in history.

Q    On the border, the President said yesterday, “the vast majority,
the overwhelming majority of people coming to the border and crossing
are being sent back.”  But only 13 percent of the 13,000 families that
tried to cross last week were sent back, according to Axios.  So where
do we get a majority out of 13 percent? 

MS. PSAKI:  The vast majority of adults are being sent back. 

Q    Okay.  So the family units, 87 percent of them are being taken into
the United States to either be resettled or await — await their
hearings.  I’m just curious, 87 percent in the country of the family
units is not a majority being sent back. 

MS. PSAKI:  A majority of adults, which every adult is not a part of a
family unit, as I’m sure you’re fully tracking.

Q    Correct.

MS. PSAKI:  And tens of thousands of people are coming to our border. 
We know that.  And so the majority of adults are being turned away. 

Our policy remains the same: We are implementing <s>Section</s>
\[Title\] 42.  As the President touched on and I touched on a little bit
earlier this week, we — there are capacity issues in Mexico which we are
in discussions with them about addressing.  And they are not in a
position to accept and take the families that they have in the past.  So
that’s part of the diplomatic discussions that we’re having.

Q    Okay, and just one more about yesterday.  We noticed, starting at
the end of the campaign and then into the transition and here at the
White House, anytime that the President has an event where he’s given a
list of reporters to call on, Fox is the only member of the five-network
TV pool that has never been on the list in front of the President.  And
I’m just curious if that is an official administration policy.

MS. PSAKI:  We’re here having a conversation, aren’t we?

Q    Yes, but the President —

MS. PSAKI:  And do I take questions from you every time you come to the
briefing room?

Q    Yes, but I’m talking about the President.

MS. PSAKI:  Has the President taken questions from you since you came in
— since you — since he came into office? 

Q    Unfortunately —

MS. PSAKI:  Yes or no?

Q    — only when I have shouted after he goes through his whole list. 
And the President has been very generous with his time with Fox.  I’m
just curious about this list that he is given. 

MS. PSAKI:  So —

Q    The only member of the five-network pool never on it, dating back
to when he resumed in-person events in Wilmington during the end of the
campaign. 

MS. PSAKI:  Well I would say that I’m always happy to have this
conversation with you, even about your awesome socks you’re having on
today — you’re wearing today — and have a conversation with you even
when we disagree.  The President has taken your questions.  And I’m
looking forward to doing Fox News Sunday this Sunday for the third time
in the last few months.

I think we got to move on because we got limited time.

Go ahead, Kristen.

Q    Jen, thank you.  The President talked about the importance of kids
going back to the classrooms.

MS. PSAKI:  Mm-hmm.

Q    In many schools all across the country, they are not going back to
the classrooms and there aren’t imminent plans to do so because teachers
unions say that they want their teachers to be vaccinated first, even
though the CDC says that’s not required.  How are you going to deal with
that?  And are there any discussions about the saying to teachers
unions, “You have to go back to the classrooms”?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, first, actually, 76 percent of schools are — do have
teaching, do have kids in the classroom for part of the week; and about
46 percent are back five days a week.  And we expect that to continue to
increase over time.

Q    Right, but the President said, “the majority.”  He wants the
majority to be back —

MS. PSAKI:  Right, by day 100.  And we’re on —

Q    — five days a week.  Yes.  Right.

MS. PSAKI:  — track to meet that objective. 

I will say that we took a step, in this administration, to prioritize
teachers through our pharmacy program.  We — that program is working;
it’s effective.  Teachers can go.  They are prioritized at pharmacies. 
It’s something we had the power to take and implement, even without —
even — and we feel it’s very much in line with the CDC guidelines
because it is one of the mitigation steps.  And it’s a step we had the
power to take and put into place. 

We actually don’t see an issue coming up with schools not reopening. 
They are reopening.  More are reopening every single week.  And we
certainly feel we’re on track to meet our goal. 

Q    And when you look at some of the polling, as it relates to the
vaccinations, still about 30 percent of adults say they don’t plan to
get one.  How do you get things back to normal with those types of
figures?  And when, specifically, do you plan to move forward with the
vaccine campaign to try to improve education —

MS. PSAKI:  It’s launching, Kristen.  It’s happening.  We are launching
a public campaign.  There are some details that have been out and
reported, I believe, in the Wall Street Journal.  We’ll get all that
information out to all of you.

I will say that what we have learned from our own data is that part of
our investment and focus needs to be in trusted voices and trusted
partners.  We’ve seen some improvement in confidence among a range of
communities in the efficacy of the vaccine.  That’s — that’s good news,
right? 

What we have seen concern about and what we still have concern about is
access, and that is the big issue.  Because now when we start to get to
— get to the point where we are trying to reach more and more and more
communities — of course, vaccinate adults, Americans in this country — a
lot of people can’t take a day off to go get a vaccine.  They don’t have
the flexibility to be in the slot available.  They maybe can’t drive
three miles to their local pharmacy. 

So our big investment right now is in access.  That means increasing
investments in mobile units, in community health centers, in mass
vaccination sites, but it also means, in terms of the public campaign,
investing in trusted voices and empowering local groups and
organizations to have the funding, the information, and the assistance
they need.

Q    And just to follow up with my question with the President
yesterday: I asked him about transparency and access for journalists
into some of the facilities at the border.  The President said, “I will
commit when my plan…is underway” to have access.  It sounded to a lot of
people like he was saying, “I will let more cameras in once I’m
satisfied with the conditions.”  How is that consistent with
transparency?

MS. PSAKI:  That’s not actually what he meant.  I’ll first say, we did
allow access, including an NBC camera, exclusively, into the shelter
facility on Wednesday.  And we’re committed to increasing access and
doing additional pools, making it available these facilities — including
the Border Patrol facilities, as well as the shelters. 

What he was conveying is, right now, his focus is on moving these kids
out of these Border Patrol facilities — right? — and making sure it’s
done in a way that keeps them safe and keeps everyone safe.

That does not imply that we are not going to allow access until that is
done; it implies that is his first focus.  So, thanks for asking the
question.  That was his — that was his intention.

Q    And do you have a timeframe for when — I noted that NBC did go in
as pool.  Do you have a timeframe for when the next round of cameras
might be allowed in?

MS. PSAKI:  Oh, we’re working on it.  Hopefully soon.  It’s something
we’re certainly committed to, and we’re just working with DHS and HHS on
when we can make it possible.

Go ahead, in the back.

Q    So, obviously — on guns — obviously, there’s lots of pieces of
legislation the President —

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.

Q    — is advocating for.  But when he spoke yesterday about priorities,
some gun control groups felt frustrated.  They felt like he was saying
gun control is not a priority compared to infrastructure, compared to
Build Back Better.  What’s your response to groups who took that message
away from the President’s comments yesterday?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, first, the President understands their frustration,
and he understands it as one of the few people in government who ever
beat the NRA twice by leading the fight to pass the Brady Bill and the
Assault Weapons Ban.  He understands it as a person who led the effort
of President Obama’s request to strengthen gun measures after Sandy Hook
and when that was voted down.  Helped put in place 23 executive actions
to combat gun violence.

You’ll see more executive action, as Josh and others were asking about —
and that review is underway — and more efforts by him and the
administration to move forward in the weeks ahead, whether that is on
legislation; supporting efforts that are happening in states, which we
have seen is very effective and impactful and largely due to the
advocacy and activism of a lot of these groups. 

But, you know, we would say that the frustration should be vented at the
members of the House and Senate who voted against the measures the
President supports.  And we’d certainly support their advocacy in that
regard.

Q    And on the border: Secretary Mayorkas put out a statement saying
this is the highest case of border crossings in 20 years.  Yesterday,
President Biden made it seem like this is not too unusual compared to
other previous years; that, in terms of the number of people trying to
cross the border, it’s about average.  But those don’t seem to square. 
How does the administration view this, in terms of whether this is
precedented or whether this is an increase?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, the President was making the point that we have seen
increases at the border: in 2014, when he was the Vice President; 2018
and 2019.  And he conveyed that, over the last six months of the Trump
administration, there was an increase of about 31 percent.  We’ve seen
an increase of about 29 percent over the last several months since he
took office.

So, the point is, we’ve dealt with this before.  It is often seasonal. 
It is often cyclical.  And he just wanted to convey that in his effort
to communicate and be — provide educational information to the public. 
But that doesn’t change the fact that he is addressing this by putting
forward every resource at our disposal in the administration. 

Just in this past week, we’ve taken steps to bring a number of new
facilities online, from Fort Bliss, where there are 5,000 beds; to
Lackland Air Force Base, where there are 350 beds; San Diego Convention
Center, 1,400 beds.  These three sites alone provide, at peak capacity,
an additional sixty — 6,750 beds.

One of our biggest issues, as we’ve talked about before, is moving these
kids out of the Border Patrol facilities into the shelters.  And we need
to have places that are safe, that have educational resources, health
resources, mental health resources, legal resources.  This is a step
toward doing that.

The other piece where he has been very focused, as we all have been, is
on expediting processing at the border.  And earlier this week, the
Office of Refugee Resettlement also instituted a revised policy for
certain children who have a parent or legal guardian in the United
States.  This will add more capacity and more swiftly unite kids with
relatives and sponsors. 

So, of course, there should be a difference if it’s a direct family
member — a mother or father — and a different kind of adult.  Right?  So
there are steps we are taking to try to expedite even the processing.

So, our focus is on actions and solutions.  We certainly know this is a
challenge.  It’s something he is briefed on regularly and has — is
pushing his team to take more rapid action.

Go ahead, Peter.

Q    Thank you, Jen.  The President has said he wants bipartisan
support, I think, for an infrastructure package as well.  Is that
possible when Republicans are pretty adamant they don’t want tax
increases?  In other words, how can you achieve bipartisan support for
infrastructure if Republicans are drawing the line — a hard line on
taxes?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, first, I would say, Peter, that I don’t think most
Republicans think that the United States — one of the wealthiest
countries in the world — should be 13th in the world as it relates to
infrastructure.  You know, roads that are broken down, infrastructure
that isn’t working, a lack of access to broadband — that’s not a
Democratic issue.  And the President is going to continue to make that
case.

Now, we don’t know what the votes will be.  We haven’t proposed a
package yet, and certainly what it will be tied to and the payfors will
be a part of that discussion. 

But he certainly believes there’s been a history of support for
investing in infrastructure.  He has had bipartisan meetings in the
White House.  He’s worked with Democrats and Republicans on getting
legislation — you know, getting steps taken in the past.  And he’s —
he’s hopeful that — that there’s an agreement on that, moving forward.

Go ahead, Anita.

Q    Thanks.  Six former commissioners — FDA commissioners have called
on the President to go ahead and nominate an FDA commissioner.  You
probably saw this week that the second in command there is — has
announced that she’s leaving.  I’m wondering what — when the President
plans to appoint someone or nominate someone for the FDA.

But more broadly, I wondered if you could talk a little bit about why
the President is behind Presidents Obama and Trump on appointing both at
the FDA and a variety of other vacancies, including the Deputy Secretary
at DHS and the Solicitor General.

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I’ll also point out that the President is also the
first President to have all 15 Cabinet nominees confirmed on this
timeline and without a single one dropping out, if we’re just making
comparisons between administrations.

He certainly wants to have an FDA commissioner in place.  He wants it to
be the right person.  And, you know, there sometimes is a journey on
personnel and determining who the right person is for the job, who’s
willing to do the job, who’s available to do the job.  And it’s a
priority, but I don’t have a pre- — an update for you on when he will
nominate someone.

Q    And in general, just on some of these other positions?  I take your
point about the Cabinet.  I’m asking about some others though.

MS. PSAKI:  What was your question again?

Q    Well, just more broadly why he’s behind on some of these other
positions that are not the actual Cabinet that you referred to.

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think it’s a little bit of apples and oranges.  We
obviously have made a great deal of progress on, again, the people who
are running and leading these agencies more than any administration
since the Reagan administration.  We feel very good about that. 

We’ve also walked into a White — a presidency where he is dealing with a
pandemic that is still killing 1,000 people a day; 10 million people out
of work; racial injustice across the country; a climate crisis.  So he’s
got a few things on his plate.  But he is committed to personnel, moving
things forward, and certainly wants to have a full team across agencies.

Q    And then, if I could just follow up on something: You mentioned
Title 42, which closes the border to nonessential travel.  Several —
before President Biden was President, several lawmakers, including
then-Senator Harris, now Vice President obviously, called it an
unconstitutional “executive power grab” that had “no known precedent or
clear legal rationale.”  Why is that still something that is — that he
has not rescinded?  What is — is he reviewing that?  What is the
situation there?  He clearly doesn’t agree with the Vice President on
that.

MS. PSAKI:  It’s in place for public health reasons, given we’re in the
midst of a pandemic.  And that’s why it’s in place.

I think we’re going to have to move on.  Go ahead.

Q    A couple other COVID questions, Jen.  Since January, the number of
Americans who have been tested for COVID has dropped off dramatically as
more people are getting vaccinated. This is a real concern for public
health officials who think that testing is a cornerstone to keeping the
pandemic in check.  So what is the administration’s plan to make sure
that those testing numbers don’t fall off further as more people get
vaccinated?

MS. PSAKI:  You’re absolutely right, and testing is a key part of
returning to normalcy, whether it’s schools or workplaces or businesses,
especially as we still have a majority of the population that still
needs to be vaccinated, although we’re working to expedite that. 

There is funding in the American Rescue Plan.  There is funding to also
allow for that — institute — or give funding, I should say, to schools
to also make that available there.  So it’s something that we’ll
continue to communicate about to governors, to school leaders, to
businesses about the importance of testing.  And we have resources now
that have been passed in the American Rescue Plan to help alleviate some
of the cost.

Q    Okay.  And one more.  The NFL has announced that it is not going to
require players, coaches, staff members to get the COVID vaccine if they
want to play, practice, et cetera.  Is that a mistake?  And should this
vaccine be required for athletes?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would certainly — I don’t know that we’re making NFL
policy from here, but it is certainly recommended by public health
officials, by officials from our federal government, because it’s how we
can keep people safe and healthy, whether it’s our family members or our
friends or people in the stands who are attending these games. 

So certainly we would advise any entity to follow public health
guidelines, to recommend that their players, the members of the NFL,
follow those public health guidelines — whether it’s mask wearing,
social distancing, washing hands, and certainly getting the vaccine when
they have access.

Go ahead.

Q    So a question again about voting rights.  The President has
expressed support for H.R. 1.  He’s going to put out a statement later
today.  What else does he have planned as far as travel or working with
senators to push this legislation forward?  And what other specifics can
you share about his use of the bully pulpit to push that forward? 

And I have one more question on behalf of another reporter.

MS. PSAKI:  Okay.  No problem.

First, as the President conveyed yesterday, he feels that voting rights
are — pushing back on voting rights, making it harder to vote, is
un-American.  It is something that should not be a part of society in
any regard.  Even many Republicans across the country oppose the efforts
that have been undertaken in states like Georgia to make it more
difficult.  He will certainly continue to vocalize that, as he did quite
passionately yesterday.

He met with Stacey Abrams when he was in Georgia, and he will, of
course, use his role as President to engage with and work with members
of Congress and leaders to help to move these pieces of legislation
forward in the Senate.

Q    Okay.  And the other question is: When children arrive at the
border — migrant children arrive — and they’re not with their biological
parents or with their aunts, uncles, grandparents, they are sometimes
separated from them and they become an unaccompanied minor at that
point.  Is the administration looking at changing that policy to let
(inaudible) stay together when they’re not a biological parent?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think that there are steps that are taken to ensure,
because there has been a history of child trafficking — right? — and we
want to prevent that from being a risk that is children are — that is
posed to children.

I’m not aware of any consideration of changes.  I’m happy to check and
see if there’s anything underway.

Q    This obviously would decrease the number of unaccompanied minors if
they can stay with an aunt, an uncle, a grandparent.

MS. PSAKI:  That certainly is true, but I think you have to — we have to
ensure that individuals are vetted, that they are who they say they
are.  And there have unfortunately been cases in the past where that has
not been the scenario, so we are mindful of that as well.

Go ahead.

Q    I have a question about the Iowa Second Congressional District
race.  Four Republican senators, in a letter to corporations, are
calling the battle for the — for Democrats to take back the seat “an
unacceptable attempt to undermine a legitimate democratic process.” 
Does the President agree with their assessment?

MS. PSAKI:  I believe that the process that is outlined by the House of
Representatives is what’s being followed here to ensure every vote is
counted.  So, no, he wouldn’t agree with that.

Q    And then just one more question.  Will the White House comply with
House Democrats’ request for documents from the last six weeks of the
Trump administration, as part of their investigation into what happened
on January 6?

MS. PSAKI:  Those — a lot of those documents would be in the National
Archives, I believe, so I’m not sure it would be White House documents. 
But if they’re White House documents, I can certainly ask our lawyers,
but I think most of them would be in the National Archives, from a past
administration.

Go ahead.

MS. PSAKI:  Thank you, Jen.  Has the President been briefed or seen the
images of migrants that have passed away at the border in the past
couple of days, including a nine-year-old girl?  And does he have any
response to that?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would say this is — he’s regularly briefed by his
immigration team and kept abreast of all developments at the border. 

I would say that those images are a reminder of how dangerous this
journey is and why this is not the time to come.  And it’s just — is a
reminder of how important it is that we work together.  This is not a
partisan issue.  This is an issue where we’re talking about people’s
lives, children’s lives.  And we’re focused on working with anyone who
wants to be part of a solution to address the challenges we’re facing.

Q    And when you and the President yesterday talked about negotiating
with Mexico, what is Mexico asking for to take the migrants back?

MS. PSAKI:  I don’t think we’re going to get into private negotiations. 
I will just say that it’s not a question of “if” but “when” — when we
work through with the Mexican government being able to have the capacity
to take some of these families back.

Part of the discussion, of course, when Ambassador Jacobson and others
were in the region was on exactly these issues, but it was just the
first trip.  As we announced just a couple of days ago, the Vice
President will be playing an important role here.  We have just
announced an envoy, and these discussions will be ongoing.  And we
didn’t expect this first trip to be conclusive.

Q    And as you make now the infrastructure package your next priority,
where does immigration reform fall on the list of priorities for this
White House?

MS. PSAKI:  Any White House, including ours, has to walk and chew gum at
the same time, move forward on a range of priorities, a range of crises
facing the country.  So we will continue to work with members of
Congress, work with outside groups, continue to advocate for moving
long-overdue immigration reform forward.

Go ahead.

Q    Yesterday, the President mentioned that — inviting an alliance of
democracies “before too long.”

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.

Q    Can you define when “before too long” might be, and whether it
would be to the White House?

MS. PSAKI:  (Sneezes.)

Q    Bless you.

MS. PSAKI:  Thank you.

Q    Whether they would come to the White House, and how many countries
does he envision inviting?

MS. PSAKI:  That’s a great question.  There’s not — it’s something he
talked about broadly on the campaign trail.  I don’t have any additional
details at this point in time.  I expect we’ll have some more on our
climate summit soon, which is — would be the next summit-type of
international engagement.  But I don’t have anything to preview for you
on that particular event.

Q    Prime Minister Suga’s visit to Washington was announced, like, two
weeks ago by the Japanese government, but I wondered what is — why is
there a holdup in announcing the date?

MS. PSAKI:  Oh, it’s not — it’s not — it’s — we’re working out the final
date and logistics.  We’re looking forward to welcoming the Prime
Minister here.  But I wouldn’t read anything into it beyond that.

Thanks, everyone.  Happy Friday.

1:22 P.M. EDT
