---
category: press-briefings
date: '2021-03-18'
modified_time: 2021-03-18 16:53:37-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/03/18/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-jen-psaki-and-secretary-of-housing-and-urban-development-marcia-l-fudge-march-18-2021/
published_time: 2021-03-18 17:00:00-04:00
title: Press Briefing by Press Secretary Jen Psaki and Secretary of Housing and Urban
  Development Marcia L. Fudge, March 18, 2021
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

12:36 P.M. EDT

MS. PSAKI:  We have another great guest today.  Joining us today is
Secretary — our new Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, Marcia
Fudge, who was confirmed just last week.  We wasted no time. 

As you all know, Secretary Fudge served as U.S. Representative for the
11th Congressional District of Ohio for more than 12 years.  She’s a
former chair of the Congressional Black Caucus and earned a reputation
of tackling the unique challenges of her district by working across
political ideologies.

In 1999, Secretary Fudge was elected the first female and first African
American mayor of Warrensville Heights, Ohio — a position she held for
two terms.  As mayor of Warrensville Heights, she adopted one of the
first vacant and abandoned property ordinances in the state. 
Additionally, she brought new residential development to the city and
addressed the city’s growing foreclosure crisis through the formation of
a long partnership that helped residents maintain the financial security
needed to buy or keep a home.

As Secretary Fudge has said, her first priority as Secretary of Housing
and Urban Development is to alleviate the housing crisis and get people
the support they need to come back from the edge.

She’s happy to take a couple of questions after she gives some remarks. 
Thank you again for joining us.  

SECRETARY FUDGE:  Thank you.  Thank you very much, Jen.  Good
afternoon. 

Good afternoon. 

Q    Good afternoon!

SECRETARY FUDGE:  Oh, thank you.  (Laughter.)  I was wondering if I was
in this room by myself.  (Laughter.)  Jen, thanks for inviting me to —
to speak about the importance of the American Rescue Plan as it relates
to the urgent needs — housing needs facing our nation today.  What a way
to complete my very first week as Secretary of Housing and Urban
Development.

At HUD, we know firsthand the severe impact of COVID-19 on our nation’s
housing crisis.  HUD staff in every region of the country have worked
tirelessly to assist grantees and recipients of HUD assistance in their
response to the pandemic.  We’ve helped nurs- — we’ve helped housing
owners, housing authorities, and communities provide additional rental
assistance and support new efforts to eradicate homelessness.

We’ve extended the Federal Housing Administration’s foreclosure and
eviction moratoriums until June 30th to support the immediate and
ongoing needs of homeowners. 

Under the Biden-Harris administration, HUD is making greater efforts to
keep Americans safe from COVID-19.  We’re strengthening partnerships
between recipients of HUD assistance and public health agencies and
healthcare providers.  Many of the people living in — living in
federally assisted housing have risk factors that make them particularly
vulnerable to COVID.  These factors include disability, race, and low
income — along with racial and ethnic disparities in access to response,
care, and treatment. 

We’re making sure that federal, state, and local efforts to reach those
most at risk of COVID are linking those efforts to people living in
housing HUD supports.

The American Rescue Plan is critical to our success in these efforts. 
Some of you may know that my last vote as a member of Congress was for
the American Rescue Plan.  I was proud to vote for this historic
legislation to get help to the American people during this moment of
great challenge. 

I thank President Biden for the leadership that has gotten us to this
point.  The American people can be confident that help is here. 

The President has described the American Rescue Plan as “shots in arms
and money in pockets.”  I would add — it relates to housing — the
American Rescue Plan keeps people housed and brings people home. 

And with that, I will take any questions that you would — that Jen is
going to allow me to take.  So you all make —

MS. PSAKI:  Anytime.  You’re invited —

SECRETARY FUDGE:  Jen is in charge.  I’m just here. 

MS. PSAKI:  Go ahead. 

Q    If I can, Secretary Fudge, thank you for being here.  We appreciate
your time today. 

SECRETARY FUDGE:  Thank you.

Q    The head of the National Housing Conference said that “HUD’s ranks
have been gutted, morale has never been lower, and the challenges to
HUD’s constituents have never been higher.”  Just in simple terms, can
you describe — describe the state of your department as you take it over
today?

SECRETARY FUDGE:  Well, I would say this to you — and I actually had the
opportunity to talk to the President about it since I’ve been here.  We
are thousands of people short of where we ought to be.  Our staff is
outstanding.  They are under-resourced, understaffed, and overworked. 
But we are going to make some major changes and very quickly.

The Rescue Plan is allowing us to do things that we may not have been
able to do without it.  So I’m especially pleased that the President had
the foresight and the vision to give us a historic, maybe one-time
opportunity to change what is going on in housing in this country.

Q    You put out some new numbers today as they relate to homelessness
in this country right now.  Obviously, it’s a number that the whole
country is dissatisfied by — thinks the number should be much lower. 

I’ll ask this in two different ways.  One, can you set a goal where you
think that number should be?  And then what timeframe do you think you
can meet such a goal to reduce homelessness in country — in this
country? 

And specifically for some of the blue parts of the country that some
Republicans have criticized — San Francisco, New York, where the
homeless numbers have been high — what specific advice and what you can
spe- — specifically do to target those communities to alleviate those —
those high numbers?

SECRETARY FUDGE:  Well, the first thing I’d say is that the President
gave us a charge early on as to what he wanted us to focus on,
especially in the first 100 days.  Homelessness was at the top of the
list.  One was expanding vouchers.  Thirdly, he wanted us to find ways
to expand and put in the market new, affordable housing. 

So with the $40 billion that has come that we have now, what we expect
is this: We have $5 billion set aside to do nothing but address homeless
issues.  So we know that, with those resources, over the next probably
12 to 18 months, we know for a fact that we can get as many as 130,000
people off the streets. 

We also know that our local partners are going to assist us in finding
other rental opportunities.  So we believe we can put a major dent in
it. 

But if nothing else, what we will let them know is that there is an
opportunity to find a way off the streets.  We are — we have more
programs in place to assist people who are already in public housing to
find a way to buy housing. 

We know that affordable housing is a problem all across this country.  I
don’t know where my Republican colleagues live that don’t think that it
— there is a problem, but there is.  So many of us just choose to ignore
it. 

MS. PSAKI:  Mary.

Q    Thank you, Madam Secretary, for being here.  The federal moratorium
on evictions is set to expire at the end of this month.  Are there plans
to extend that?  And if not, what do you say to families who are worried
that they may be facing eviction?

SECRETARY FUDGE:  Well, what I would say first is that the HUD
moratorium expires on June 30th.  The CDC is in the process of trying to
determine what is the appropriate way forward, and I would hope that you
would ask them that question. 

Q    And just one more, if I can.  The experts tell us that that the
December tranche of COVID relief is just now starting to come online. 
People that we’ve talked to are still seeing some big glitches, you
know, when — when they try to apply.  Are you confident that states and
localities now have the systems in place to get this, as well as the
next round of funding?

SECRETARY FUDGE:  I’m very confident.  I’ve talked with Secretary
Yellen.  The Treasury Department is up to the task.  I mean, certainly
it is a different Treasury Department, so I’m very confident that if
they say that they can get it out in a certain period of time, they
will. 

Our job at HUD is just to give the kind of guidance and assistance once
those funds are received. 

MS. PSAKI:  Zeke.

Q    Thank you, Secretary.  You mentioned earlier that housing prices
are increasing.  Also the supply of new inventory on the market is
decreasing at the same time.  What can the administration do to get more
homes on the market or bring prices down?  How concerned are you about —
about that dynamic?

SECRETARY FUDGE:  There are a couple of things that we know can happen
out of this rescue package.  One is: If you look at places like a Los
Angeles, where they have actually purchased hotels and motels, et
cetera, to give people an immediate place to go, there’s re- — there are
resources in the plan to do that. 

The other thing that we find is that part of the problem with the market
is that credit is not available and accessible to people who actually do
qualify.  So, since FHA is certainly a part of what — what we do, we’re
going to ensure that we can talk about down payment assistance.  We’re
going to talk about maybe some restructuring.  We are going to make sure
that people who qualify have access to credit. 

We all know that there have been problems across this country for many,
many years.  That is why I’m so pleased that President Biden talks about
equity.  He talks about equality — closing the racial wealth gap, which
is bigger today than it was 50 years ago. 

So we know that we have the tools.  I think it was just a matter of
making sure that we have the will to use them.  We have the — we now
have the will. 

MS. PSAKI:  Ed.

Q    Madam Secretary, thank you again.  Back to the homelessness report
that you guys put out this morning.  The way that test is done, as you
know, is you test over a few days in January of the previous year. 

SECRETARY FUDGE:  Correct.

Q    So that was pre-pandemic, 2020.  Do you have any —

SECRETARY FUDGE:   Five hundred and eighty thousand people on the
streets pre- — I mean “homeless” — pre-pandemic.  Correct.

Q    Exactly.  A 2.2 percent increase from the year before.  Do you have
any sense of how much more homelessness may have increased once that
pandemic began, say, April, May, into the summer?

SECRETARY FUDGE:  I can’t give you numbers.  We know that it increased;
we just don’t know those numbers. 

Q    So really not until next January will we —

SECRETARY FUDGE:  Correct.

Q    — be able to get some sense of how it might have affected —

SECRETARY FUDGE:  Correct.

MS. PSAKI:  Okay, Nancy and Alex.  And then we’ll have to let the
Secretary go back to work.

Go ahead, Nancy.

Q    Thanks so much for being here.  Appreciate it. 

SECRETARY FUDGE:  My pleasure. 

Q    Two questions.  One, does the Biden administration have any plans
to restore or tweak that Obama-era fair housing regulation, which the
Trump administration weakened in the summer of 2020?

SECRETARY FUDGE:  We are looking at it.  Certainly we know that fair
housing is, in fact, the law of the land, and we want to use every tool
that we have.  I think that the prior administration did roll back some
fair housing tools that we have.  So, we’re looking at how we can go
back and make those better and get them reimplemented, if possible.

Q    And then, just a second question.  What are your thoughts on
whether or not there is a housing bubble right now in the U.S.?

SECRETARY FUDGE:  Well, I would say that that’s a — kind of a tricky
question.  There are those who would say “yes.”  I would say, at this
point, that until I can get the kind of data that I need from the GSEs
and from FHA, that’s not a — that’s not something that I could really
give you an accurate answer on, but I know that there is a problem with
the market today.

MS. PSAKI:  Alex.  Make it a good one, Alex.  No pressure.

Q    Well, I — I have two, so I’m going to be just a little bit greedy. 
One from our housing reporter, which is: Are there some parts of the
COVID response, whether or not in ARP or generally, that are currently
temporary that you would like to see permanent when the crisis eases?

SECRETARY FUDGE:  Oh, I’d like to see most of it permanent.  No question
about it.  I think that when we talk about housing needs, we can’t, at
this point, come up with enough money to take care of all of the
homeless people in this country.  We cannot, through this package alone,
repair and restore 50-year-old housing authorities across this country
which are crumbling every day.  We cannot abate lead in every single
building we need to with these resources.  We need at least another $70-
to $100 billion to do those things. 

So, yes, I’d like to see a stream of resources available to do this —
not just in this package, but ongoing.

Q    And the second question is — you may have seen that former
Congressman Richmond weighed in on the primary to succeed him in his
congressional seat.

SECRETARY FUDGE:  Who?

Q    Congressman Richmond.  (Laughter.)

MS. PSAKI:  Never heard of him.

Q    I was wondering if you wanted to take the opportunity to weigh in
on your race, and, you know, who you think can — should succeed you, and
what you’re looking for?

SECRETARY FUDGE:  No.  (Laughter.)

Q    How about the Senate race in your state?

MS. PSAKI:  All right.

Q    Is there a Democrat that should run?

SECRETARY FUDGE:  Oh, absolutely. 

Q    Who?

SECRETARY FUDGE:  Well, I have two friends that are thinking about it. 
Tim Ryan, of course, is thinking about it.  I understand that Nan Whaley
is thinking about it.  I mean, I think we’re going to put a good person
in that race, no matter who we choose.  But they’re both friends. 

I think we have a good shot at it.  I know people have written off
Ohio.  I haven’t written off Ohio.  I believe we can win the Senate
race.

MS. PSAKI:  Thank you, Secretary Fudge.  Looking forward to having you
back. 

SECRETARY FUDGE:  Thank you.

Q    Thank you, Madam Secretary.

SECRETARY FUDGE:  Thanks, Jen.

MS. PSAKI:  Thank you. 

Okay, just have a —

Q    (Inaudible.)

MS. PSAKI:  What did you say?

Q    We should have walk-off music for your guests. (Laughter.)

MS. PSAKI:  I mean, we can.  Wait until month three.  Wait until month
three.  We’ll be rolling it out with people’s second visits.

As we announced yesterday — I just wanted to give you a little bit more
information on the schedule for next week.  We — you may have seen we
confirmed that the President will be traveling to Columbus, Ohio, on
Tuesday — the anniversary of the Affordable Care Act being signed into
law.  The trip will be a part of our Help is Here tour and will
highlight how the American Rescue Plan will lower healthcare costs for
many American families.  And this is a component of the package that
we’ve talked about, but we’re still working to ensure the American
people understand how they can benefit from this particular piece.

The Affordable Care Act has been an important lifeline for Ohio families
for 11 years.  The law cut the state’s uninsured rate by half, dropping
from 12 percent to 6 percent.  It has also provided critical consumer
protections for millions more by preventing insurance companies from
discriminating based on preexisting conditions.  And the American Rescue
Plan makes coverage under the ACA even more affordable for Ohio
families: Over 90,000 currently uninsured Ohioans can get a better deal
on health insurance because of the law and premiums for people who have
coverage under the ACA.

And the former Ohio governor was one of the first — if not the first
Republican governor in the country to expand Medicaid access during that
period of time, and that is certainly something we continue to note
around here.

Another update on the schedule is, in the wake — well, a couple of
updates, I should say, part on the schedule and part on the steps we’re
taking as it relates to the horrific events in Atlanta earlier this
week. 

In the wake of the horrific shootings in Atlanta on Tuesday, the
President ordered the U.S. flag to be flown at half staff as a mark of
respect for the victims of these senseless acts of violence. 

The President and the Vice President will also meet with representatives
from the Georgia Asian American and Pacific Islander community when they
travel to Georgia on Friday.  They will meet with the state legislators
and community advocates to hear about the impact of the incident on the
community, and to get their perspective on the rise in anti-Asian hate
incidents.  The President will offer — also offer his support for the
AAPI community in Georgia and across the country and talk about his
commitment to combating xenophobia, intolerance, and hate.

As many of you may know — and I think we were — I’ve been asked about
this in here previously, but Senator Mazie Hirono and Congresswoman
Grace Meng have introduced legislation that calls for expanded DOJ
review of COVID-19-related hate crimes, for guidance from DOJ to law
enforcement for best practices in reporting hate crimes, and ensures
that hate crimes information and reporting is more accessible to Asian
American communities.  The President applauds this — their leadership on
this issue, including — along with Chair Judy Chu’s — and he strongly
supports these crucial aims of this legislation.

He issued a presidential memorandum his first week in office, directing
the Attorney General to support state and local agencies and AAPI
communities to prevent hate crimes and expand data collection and public
reporting.  That is ongoing. The outreach and engagement from DOJ is
already underway. 

There’s also a role for HHS to play, which we expect can pick up more
once Secretary Becerra — future Secretary Becerra is sworn in. 

And as I noted yesterday, also from here, he’s asked Cedric Richmond —
who, of course, we’ve all heard of; former congressman — and Susan Rice
to lead an effort to engage with the community as well. 

Last piece: Today, the House will also be voting on the American Dream
and Promise Act and the Farm Workforce Modernization Act.  President
Biden and this administration support passage of both pieces of
legislation.  These bills would provide a path to citizenship for
DREAMers, individuals with temporary protected status, and farmworkers.
 Both pieces of legislation passed the House last Congress with
bipartisan support and have broad support from the American public. 

These bills, in his view and our view, are critical milestones toward
much-needed relief for the millions of individuals who call the United
States home, and an acknowledgement that a path to citizenship for these
essential workers is critically important to our economy and our
nation’s food and agricultural sectors.

We also urge Congress to reform other aspects of our immigration system
by passing President Biden’s Build the U.S. Citizenship Act — a package,
a bill that he proposed on his first day in office — which would
establish a new system to responsibly manage and secure our border,
bring long-overdue visa reforms to keep families together and grow our
economy, and address the root causes of migration from Central America.

With that, Zeke, kick us off.

Q    Thank you, Jen.  Just following up on a scooplet from our
colleague, Jeff, over here.

MS. PSAKI:  A “scooplet.”  (Laughter.)

Q    If you could —

MS. PSAKI:  I don’t know that Reuters calls it “scooplets,” but —

Q    If you could confirm that the U.S. plans to loan 4 million
AstraZeneca vaccines to Mexico and Canada.  What’s the timeline for when
that transaction would take place?  And why only 4 million of a
stockpile that is several times that when — for a vaccine that isn’t
authorized here?

MS. PSAKI:  Absolutely.  So, as I’ve noted here before, but worth noting
again: Our first priority remains vaccinating the U.S. population.  The
reality is that — but the reality is the border knows no — the pandemic
knows no borders.  And ensuring our neighbors can contain the virus is a
mission-critical step — is mission critical to ending the pandemic. 

We have three vaccines approved, as you well know.  And, of course,
there’s a rigorous review process by the FDA.  There are other vaccines,
of course, including AstraZeneca, that are going through the approval
process now.  And we have been taking action here to get ready to get
those vaccines to the American people if they are approved.

As we await FDA approval here in the U.S., many countries, as you know,
have already requested — have requested the — have already approved
AstraZeneca and also have requested our doses from the United States. 
That includes Canada and Mexico, but it’s certainly not limited to
Canada and Mexico. 

And balancing the need to let the approval process play out of the
AstraZeneca vaccine as it’s taking place in the U.S. with the importance
of helping stop the spread of the — of — in other countries — we are
assessing how we can loan doses.  It’s not — it’s — we are — that is our
aim.  It is not fully finalized yet, but that is our aim and what we’re
working toward to Canada and Mexico.  This is a complex process, and our
team is working with the companies to move it forward.

And I want to — on your question about the number of doses: There have
been a range of reports about the number of doses.  I can confirm that
we have 7 million releasable doses available of AstraZeneca.  And as
noted in Jeff’s “scooplet,” which I’m just going to keep calling it —
(laughter) — 2.5 million of those, we are working to finalize plans to
lend those to Mexico and 1.5 million to Canada.

Q    And what’s the nature of that transaction?  Would it just be for
future AstraZeneca production?  Or would there be —

MS. PSAKI:  Meaning what’s in the loan?

Q    Yeah.

MS. PSAKI:  It could be for future AstraZeneca doses or other doses. 
Yes.

Q    And on a different topic, I was wondering if you’ve seen — if you
saw the comments from Russian President Vladimir Putin this morning
responding to the President’s comments in the interview on Tuesday
night.  Is the President worried at all that he may have inadvertently
started a little war of words, and that trading shots back and forth,
that could get in the way of having — finding some common ground on
various shared priorities?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, President Putin — President Biden and President Putin
certainly have different perspectives on their respective countries and
how to approach engagement in the world.  But where they agree is that
we should continue to work for way — look for ways to work together, as
was noted in part of President Putin’s comments. 

And there are areas of mutual interest.  New START, which we just
extended for five years is an example of that.  Obviously, Russia is
also a member of the P5+1, as we look ahead to what’s possible there as
it relates to, you know, preventing Iran from acquiring a nuclear
weapon.

So we are confident that we can continue to look for ways where there’s
mutual interest — mutual national interest.  But the President is not
going to hold back, clearly, when he has concerns, when he has — whether
it is with words or actions. 

Go ahead.  I’ll go to you next.  You have a scooplet.  You can go after
a few other people. (Laughter.)  Go ahead.

Q    Thank you.  On that same topic: You know, obviously, you say that
you want to work together on Russia on areas of mutual agreement, but
Russia has now decided to recall its ambassador.  I mean, is there a
concern that the President agreeing that Russian President Putin is a
killer could escalate tension even further?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, our ambassador, Sullivan, remains in Moscow.  We
remain engaged and he remains engaged, as does our team on the ground,
with the Russian people. 

We continue to believe that diplomacy is the first step and should
always be the first step, and should be our objective as we pursue all
relationships, even with our adversaries.  So, you know, we are hopeful
that that will continue to be the case.

Q    And just want to get your reaction to actually some of Putin’s
exact words here, because he responded with a bit of a euphemism that
translates roughly to “It takes one to know one” — pointing to slavery
in America, treatment of Native Americans, the atomic bombing of Japan. 
Does the President have any response to that kind of language? 

MS. PSAKI:  Well, the President believes that one of the greatest
attributes of the United States is our honest self-reflection and our
constant striving for progress.  And there’s always more work to do, as
he’s stated himself.

So, I can’t — I’ve been doing this long enough not to try to get in the
mind of President Putin, but I can assure you that President Biden still
believes there’s more work we can do here in our own country.

Go ahead.

Q    Just to follow up quickly, does — you’re talking about
self-reflection — does President Biden regret calling Vladimir Putin a
“killer”?

MS. PSAKI:  No.  The President gave a direct answer to a direct
question.

Q    So then how is that — how — you don’t want to escalate tensions. 
How is that constructive to the relationship when you talk about
diplomacy being primary between the U.S. and Russia?  How is calling
Vladimir Putin a killer constructive to that relationship? 

MS. PSAKI:  Well, President Biden has known President Putin for a long
time.  They’ve both been on the global stage for a long time, worked
through many iterations of a relationship between the United States and
Russia, and he believes we can continue to do that.

Q    Does the President believe that the leaders of — Mohammed Bin
Salman, the — one of the — the Crown Prince of Saudi Arabia — does he
view him as a killer?

MS. PSAKI:  I don’t think I need to add more “killer” names from the
podium just today.

Q    I won’t ask you about other countries then as well.

MS. PSAKI:  Okay.

Q    But let me ask about immigration —

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.

Q    — if I can quickly.

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  Go ahead.

Q    The President has made it very clear in his recent interview that
the border is not open, effectively that it’s closed, except for these
unaccompanied minors right now, under humanitarian grounds —

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.

Q    — who are being welcomed into the U.S.  But as we speak, crews from
multiple outlets, including those from NBC News, are at the border and
they’re seeing many migrant families being accepted — young families
being accepted into the country right now. 

So can you square those two — when the message was that families and
individuals were being sent home but unaccompanied minors were being
kept — why young families are, in fact, being kept here in the U.S. and
detained?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, we’ve talked about this a little bit in here before,
but — and we are still applying Section 42, which — and with — the
exception is, of course, unaccompanied minors. 

We are — there are limited scenarios, limited circumstances where we are
— very limited, I should say — where families are coming across, going
through proper protocols at the border — being tested and then having
their cases adjudicated. 

Part of this is that — part of the reasoning is that, of course, we’ve
closed Matamoros and some — there has been some less participation in
keeping some of these families in Mexico than in the past.  And many of
these policies we have supported. 

But the vast majority of people — vast, vast majority — who come to the
border are turned away.  The border is not open.  These are very limited
scenarios. 

Q    (Coughs.)  Sorry, I just swallowed some mask here, but —

MS. PSAKI:  It’s okay.  We’ve all been there.   

Q    — how — how limited is “very limited”?  How many are being allowed
in as it relates to families?  And specifically, if the message that the
President was sending this week is that the border is not open, what is
the message to those families, given some are being allowed in right
now?

MS. PSAKI:  The message continues to be — I’d be happy to provide you
the numbers.  I think CBP has the most up-to-date numbers, so I’d point
you to them, and they provide those regularly.  We’d certainly support
that.  I don’t have them in front of me right now.

I would say the message continues to be, “Now is not the time to come.” 
The vast majority of families, of individuals are sent back, are not
welcomed across the border.  And that’s a message we will continue to
convey clearly.

Q    And just to follow up, you talked about how the President saw those
photos in one of the recent briefings, as it relates to these shelters,
detention centers, decompression centers.  I’m not sure what specific
photos he saw.  We asked yesterday and we’ll ask again today: Can you
provide those?  Will you provide those to the American public to see
what it looks like there right now?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, first, let me say that the White House and we all in
the administration support finding a way to grant access to the media to
the HHS ORR facilities or the shelters where these children are staying
for a temporary period of time before they’re placed with family members
or with sponsored homes. 

The Office of Refugee Resettlement is — has not been hosting, as you’ve
noted, media tours of unaccompanied children facilities currently due to
the COVID-19 pademic \[sic\] –pandemic.  But we remain committed to
transparency, and we’re considering potential options, and we hope to
have an update on that soon.

Q    So even if we didn’t get a tour, can you provide us the photos that
the President was provided?

MS. PSAKI:  They — there was a private briefing, an internal briefing
from several weeks ago.  We typically don’t provide those materials
publicly, but we do want you to be able to — or a pool of media to be
able to have your own visuals and get your own footage of these
facilities.

Q    Thanks, Jen.

MS. PSAKI:  Go ahead.

Q    Two things.  Back to Russia for a second.

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.

Q    There was the SolarWinds hack.  There was the reported bounties on
the heads of U.S. troops.

MS. PSAKI:  Yes.

Q    The President said in this interview something on that is coming. 
What is the holdup?  When is the response from the United States
coming?  Because he inferred in the interview, you know, “Stay tuned.”

MS. PSAKI:  Right.  Well, we also have already put forward sanctions on
— in response to the poisoning of Aleksey Navalny.  There’s already been
a release of a report about their engagement in the 2020 Election.  And
we will have responses to each of these malign actions that we have
expressed concern about and the President has offered a review of. 

“Weeks, not months” remains still the policy.  There’s, of course,
internal policy decision making about — to assess and take a look at the
review, but also to make decisions about policy engagements.  Some of
the responses may be seen; some may be unseen.  And, of course, the
President reserves the right to respond in a manner and time of his
choosing, as any President would.  But he did make clear that there —
that the Russian government will pay a price.

Q    On these vaccines going to Mexico: This comes, of course, as the
United States is talking to Mexico about this border situation.  Were
there any strings attached regarding the situation on the border with
this decision to give AstraZeneca doses to Mexico?

MS. PSAKI:  There are several diplomatic conversations, parallel
conversations, many layers of conversations with any — every country —
Mexico, Canada, Europe, Asia, around the world.  And certainly, being
part of contributing to preventing the spread of a global pandemic is
part of — one of our diplomatic objectives.  Another one of our
diplomatic objectives is working to address the challenges at the
border.  So it shouldn’t be a surprise that those conversations are both
ongoing and happening.

Q    So if I’m hearing you, the vaccine was given.  Were there
expectations set with the Mexicans that they help deal with this
situation on the border?

MS. PSAKI:  The — we —

Q    Was there a quid pro quo?

MS. PSAKI:  There have been ex- — there have been expectations set
outside of — unrelated — to any vaccine doses or request for them that
they would be partners in dealing with the crisis on the border.  And
there have been requests, unrelated, that they — for doses of these
vaccines.  Every relationship has multiple layers of conversations that
are happening at the same time.

Q    So we shouldn’t rule out — or the United States isn’t ruling out
using our vaccine stockpile in terms of, sort of, to effect diplomacy?

MS. PSAKI:  I’m actually try- — I’m actually trying to convey that with
every country, there’s rarely just one issue you’re discussing with any
country at one time.  Right?  Certainly that’s not the case with Mexico;
it’s not the case with any country around the world. 

And so I wouldn’t read into it more than our ability to provide, to lend
vaccine doses of a vaccine that we have some available supply on to a
neighboring country where there is a lot of traffic that goes back and
forth between the countries. 

Q    Two other quick ones.  One related to the Atlanta shooting.  You’ve
been asked this before, but, in February of last year, then-candidate
Biden said that on his first day of office, he’d send a bill to Congress
repealing the liability protection for gun manufacturers and closing the
background check loophole.  I know you’ve been asked about this. 

There’s an Attorney General in place now.  When, if any — when might we
hear more about the administration’s plans regarding gun violence?

MS. PSAKI:  It remains a commitment — a personal commitment of the
President to do more on gun safety, to put more measures in place, to
use the power of the presidency to work with Congress.  And certainly
there’s an important role, as you noted, for the Attorney General and
the Justice Department to play on — in this regard. 

I, unfortunately, don’t have any updates for you today, but it is an
issue he remains committed to.

Q    And one quick local issue.  The House Oversight Committee on Monday
is holding the hearing on D.C. statehood.  The President is a supporter
of this.

MS. PSAKI:  Yes. 

Q    Does he think it could — if it passes the House, does it have a
chance in the Senate, given the filibuster situation right now?  And
what would he or the White House say to the critics who suggest that
this is designed to be a Democratic Party power grab just to get a few
more seats in the House and the Senate?

MS. PSAKI:  I think he would say that the half a million people who live
in D.C. — am I getting that number right? 

Q    A little more than that now.  Yeah.

MS. PSAKI:  A little more than — it’s grown since I left and went to the
suburbs.  Would — would argue with that point, and so would he.  I mean,
he believes they deserve representation; that’s why he supports D.C.
statehood. 

Go ahead.

Q    Has the administration made any effort — this is just a
Putin-related question.

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.

Q    Has the administration made any effort to find out what was said
during the previous President’s two-hour-long one- on-one meeting with
Putin in Helsinki?

MS. PSAKI:  It’s a great question.  Obviously there’s intelligence
reports that may reflect that, but I’m not aware of any specific deep
dive into that.  I’m happy to check if there’s more on it. 

And just — I’m sorry, one more question.  The Chinese government has
indicated that it wanted — it wants to meet with President Biden
virtually in April before that climate summit.  I’m wondering if the
Biden administration is open to that and if there have been any talks
about setting that meeting up. 

MS. PSAKI:  I know we’ll have more on the climate summit, which is just
over a month away now.  So it’s coming closer.  And there are, of
course, a range of international, global participants that we anticipate
being a part of it, but we’re not at the stage where we’re discussing
bilateral meetings at this point in time. 

Go ahead, David.  Oh, sorry, Jeff, I really — I’ll come back to you
next.  I’m not trying to give you a hard time. 

Go ahead, David.

Q    Maybe Mr. Scooplet should go first.  (Laughter.)

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah, maybe.  (Laughs.)

Q    Sorry to go back to the Russia question here —

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.

Q    — but the President now, by my count, has said that Russia would
pay a price for SolarWinds. 

MS. PSAKI:  Mm-hmm.

Q    He has said that they would pay a price for Navalny —

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.

Q    — and as you pointed out, there have already been some sanctions
there. 

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah. 

Q    Yesterday, he seemed to suggest that they would pay a price, in
addition, for the meddling in the 2020 elections.  And yet, at the same
time, your own colleagues seem to have sanctions fatigue out here. 
You’ve been —

MS. PSAKI:  Who are my colleagues?  In the government?

Q    You were — your colleagues in the State Department, the West Wing. 

MS. PSAKI:  Oh.

Q    I mean, you announced sanctions on Russia back when you were a
State Department spokeswoman. 

Is there any evidence that the method that we’re using so far — of
sanctions — is actually affecting Putin’s behavior?

MS. PSAKI:  I don’t think we would rely, David, on sanctions alone.  We
do think they have been effective modes.  I mean, history — you’ve
written many stories about it, about the role sanctions have played in
moving global diplomacy forward, and we certainly are a believer in
that. 

But as you also know, there are a range of tools at any — at the
disposal of any President, seen and unseen.  And I’m just not going to
get ahead of the process of what considerations are underway.

Q    Okay.  On China, obviously the meeting is yet to happen —

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.

Q    — today.  But at the end of this whole process, once Mr. Sullivan
and Mr. Blinken come back, what does the President think is the next
right step?  Is it further meetings at this level?  Is it more direct
conversation, like the one he had for several hours last month with
President Xi?  Is it a response to the Chinese-related hack that he’s
also trying to deal with?

MS. PSAKI:  I expect he’ll make a determination about that when they
return and he has a chance to talk to Secretary Blinken and National
Security Advisor Sullivan, in part because he doesn’t see this, nor do
they, as a preset series of meetings like the traditional dialogues that
we’ve seen throughout other administrations, including ones that he has
previously served in.

You know, this meeting, we certainly anticipate, will have difficult
components of the conversation.  We expect it to be frank.  They plan to
cover areas where we have concerns, including human rights, Hong Kong. 
Obviously, we’ve — we’ve put forward some sanctions related to the
anti-democratic actions in Hong Kong over the last couple of days. 
Technology, whether it relates to threft \[sic\] — the theft of IP or
data protections.  Military tensions in the region.

So it will cover, as will be no surprise to anyone here who follows
China closely, a range of topics.  And I think the President is eager to
hear from them on how the conversation goes and work with them to
determine what the next right step is.

I will say that, in his mind and in the minds of National Security
Advisor Sullivan and Secretary of State Blinken, a big part of the
strategy is approaching our relationship with China from a place of
strength and strengthening our own economy at home, investing in the
middle class, looking at it through the prism of competition, not
conflict.  And that means there’s also more work we have to do here.

Q    From your answer, things like the economic and strategic dialogue
which took place in the Obama administration and that continued some in
the Trump administration — that’s over for now?

MS. PSAKI:  I would simply say that this meeting is not a part of a
series of meetings at this point in time. 

Go ahead.

Q    (Inaudible.)

MS. PSAKI:  Oh, sorry, Jeff.  You’re kind of getting hazed for your
scooplet.  (Laughter.)

Q    That’s all right.  I can take it.

MS. PSAKI:  Right.  I know you can.  Okay.  He’ll just sit on his
scooplet, and he doesn’t care. 

Go ahead, Karen.

Q    A couple questions on schools.  Last month, the CDC released school
guidance urging six feet of distance between students and staff, and now
the CDC Director says she’s revisiting this.  We’re reporting that this
could come as early as tomorrow; that that will go from six feet to
three feet.  What does the White House say to teachers who are concerned
that the science hasn’t changed in five weeks and that this is
political, this change?

MS. PSAKI:  I would say that the CDC is full of health and medical
experts — including Dr. Walensky, who would be the last person to
characterize herself as political.  She is a medical health expert, and
she has looked at this through the prism of how we can take steps to
make it safe to reopen schools and is constantly evaluating how to ease
some of the restrictions.  And there are, of course, more that often you
all have asked about in here, which are good questions: What about
travel?  What about masks?

You know, they take an approach that is purely through the science.  So
we’ll let her speak more about it when they’re ready to release those
formal guidelines.

Q    Will the White House direct states to do something with that
guidance when it’s released, similar to what we saw when the President
made the direction on vaccine eligibility? 

MS. PSAKI:  You mean, like, will we direct schools to —

Q    Can you say, “You have to now to do this”?  “The CDC has said this
— six to three feet.  You now have to follow this to push for
reopening.”

MS. PSAKI:  Well, social distancing is one of the mitigation measures —
right? — in the CDC guidance.  And I don’t know — I have not seen the
CDC guidance, so I don’t know how it will be characterized in there. 

But I would certainly say we’d have Secretary Cardona, who was just here
yesterday, work with schools and school districts to implement — and
social distancing is one of the steps; masking, testing, vaccinations —
and see how it can help reopen schools more quickly.

Q    And you want to see this, I mean, kind of, overnight go from six to
three feet in the schools that are open right now, and possibly increase
the number of students that can be in the classroom before the end of
the year?

MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have a timeline for it.  I don’t anticipate we’d ask
any school to do something immediately overnight.  But it will just be
additional guidance, which a lot of schools are looking for, from health
and medical experts on how to safely reopen schools and ensure that the
parents in the community, the teachers in the community, the students
feel safe going to school. 

And this just — as they’re considering options, this is one of the
options that will — that — one of the mitigation steps a school can
take. 

Go ahead.

Q    Two quick questions, to continue with the scooplet theme. 

MS. PSAKI:  Okay.  (Laughs.)

Q    There was a report just about an hour ago that the President
intends to nominate Bill Nelson as NASA chief.  Can you confirm that?

MS. PSAKI:  I have seen those reports.  I don’t have any personnel
announcements to make today.  It seems like a cool job, though, that I’m
not currently on the path to.  But it’s fine.

Q    You’re not auditioning right now?

MS. PSAKI:  I am certainly not.  I don’t have any personnel
announcements to make.  I’ve certainly seen the reports.  As we have any
updates, we’ll provide them.

Q    And the second question: You know, the President said yesterday
that he intends to try to raise taxes on anyone that was making over
$400,000 a year.  Does he think that that’s — does he intend to wait
until the economy is out of the pandemic recession, or does he feel
confident that by making it only on higher earners that it will not
affect the broader economy?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, the President is certainly focused on ensuring the
economy is continuing to recover and that people are going back to work
and able to put food on the table to feed their families. 

When we’re talking about people — families making over $400,000 a year,
that’s about 2 percent of households in this country.  And this is a
commitment that he talked about on the campaign trail.  And his interest
is in ensuring that people pay their fair share, whether it’s
corporations or the highest income earners in our country.  And he
believes that, you know, hard work should be rewarded and that this is
one of the areas where there could — where there is an opportunity to
rebalance how our policies are currently.

But, you know, he would do this in coordination with, of course, members
of Congress, members of his economic team.  And we obviously don’t have
a proposed plan at this point, but it is a — it is a policy that he
talked about on the campaign trail, and he reiterated, as you noted,
earlier this week.

Did you have a second question, too, or no?

Q    Those were the two.  The scooplet question.

MS. PSAKI:  Okay, okay.  Got it.  Okay. 

Go ahead, Jeff.

Q    All right.  Yay!

MS. PSAKI:  The man of the hour.

Q    On AstraZeneca, you mentioned that the U.S. has 7 million doses —
releasable doses — and the company itself —

MS. PSAKI:  Yes.

Q    — has said it expects to have up to 30 million in April.  Given
that, will the U.S. consider lending, sharing more of these doses with
the other countries that are asking, now that you’ve confirmed that
you’re doing the same for Mexico and Canada?

MS. PSAKI:  We don’t have anything to preview, but we have a number of
requests from a range of countries around the world, and certainly we’ll
continue those conversations.

Q    Okay.  But no commitment at this point to share, specifically, the
AstraZeneca vaccine with others?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I will say, broadly speaking, we also anticipate
having additional doses of Moderna, of Pfizer, of a range of vaccines,
even as we focus on vaccinating, ensuring every American — every adult
American has access to the vaccine.  It’s just a matter of timeline.  So
I just don’t have a — an update or a preview on that, but certainly
we’ll have those conversations, and we are open to receiving those
requests and, obviously, making considerations.

Q    All right.  And just on one other issue: Your new U.S. Trade
Representative will be ceremonially sworn in later today.

MS. PSAKI:  Yes.  <s>Ninety-seven</s> \[Ninety-eight\] to zero —

Q    That’s a big number.

MS. PSAKI:  — I think was her vote.  It’s pretty solid.

Q    What — how soon will she start leading trade talks with the UK?

MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have anything to preview.  Obviously, that’s driven
by the policies and the agenda of the President and the overall economic
team.  I’m sure we will be integrating her into all of the policy
discussions as soon as she’s sworn in.

Let me just go to the — get to the folks in the back.  Go ahead.

Q    Thank you, ma’am.  A couple of quick questions.  When you were
talking, a moment ago, about diplomatic negotiations between the United
States and Mexico, you said “crisis on the border.”  Is — was that a —

MS. PSAKI:  Challenges on the border.

Q    Okay.  But, so, that’s not — that doesn’t reflect any change in the
administration’s —

MS. PSAKI:  No.

Q    — view of things?

MS. PSAKI:  Nope.

Q    Okay.  Well, another quick question then.  On Monday, the President
said it’s important to get the vaccine, and then, quote, “even after
that, until everyone is, in fact, vaccinated, to wear this mask,”
unquote.  Was he speaking generally, or does he believe that we should
all be wearing masks until everyone is, in fact, vaccinated?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think what he’s reflecting is the guidance from our
health experts that, even if you’re vaccinated — I am vaccinated; I
still wear a mask because there hasn’t been conclusive studies yet on
the transferability of the pandemic — or of COVID from those who have
been vaccinated.  He’s — and it continues to be the advice of health and
medical experts to continue to wear masks.

Q    Right.  But every American?  Is that the standard, “until every
American has been vaccinated”?  Or was he speaking generally?

MS. PSAKI:  I think he’s speaking generally about the need to still
observe measures like social distancing and wearing of masks so that,
even when you’re vaccinated, you’re keeping your neighbors, your
friends, your family members safe.

Q    Good deal.  And then, back in January, you noted that the
administration was reviewing how unmarried couples were handled under
travel restrictions.  Have there been any developments on those
restrictions — I know that there’s a lot on the administration’s plate —

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.

Q    — but in how unmarried, binational couples are treated?

MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have any update for you.  The review is ongoing. 

Q    And can I ask you one more question?

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.

Q    Thank you.  You’re very generous.  The Equality Act, as it’s
currently written, would eliminate the Religious Freedom Restoration Act
as a defense for religious organizations against discrimination claims. 
Given that President Biden voted in favor of RFRA, does he support it
being abolished now?

MS. PSAKI:  I would have to check on the specific components of the
package.  I’m happy to — I’m happy to do that for you after the
briefing.

Go ahead, in the back.

Q    Thank you very much, Jen.  Two East Asia questions and one Asian
American question, if I may.

MS. PSAKI:  Okay.

Q    On U.S.-China talks, can we expect the joint statement after talks?

MS. PSAKI:  A joint statement between them?  I don’t have anything to
preview.  I know that National Security Advisor Sullivan and Secretary
Blinken will be speaking briefly after the talks conclude.  But I don’t
have anything to preview for you in terms of a joint statement.

Q    Okay.  Another question is: According to Japanese media, Japanese
Prime Minister Suga will meet President Biden on April 9th.  Can you
confirm that?

MS. PSAKI:  I know there have been reports about a future meeting, and
the President is certainly looking forward to meeting with the Prime
Minister of Japan.  I don’t believe a final confirmation has been made
here of what that meeting will look like and what the format would be.

Q    Okay.  And one Asian American question on the unfortunate Atlanta
shooting.  We already see the half-staff outside.  Yesterday, you blamed
the prior administration about this, which some people agree.  But as
what Axios reports, quote, “The United States rivalry with China had
already created unease about Chinese Americans and Asian Americans,”
unquote.  And Axios states we are going to see a huge jump in hate
crimes against Asian Americans this year. 

So it seems to be that President Biden is in this catch-22: On the one
hand, he is trying to alleviate the hate crimes against Asians and Asian
Americans; on the other hand, he’s, kind of, escalates the tension.  How
can he really alleviate this situation?

MS. PSAKI:  I would just refute the notion of that question.  I would
say that yesterday I was asked — which was a good question — if we
thought that the former President’s rhetoric had contributed to the
actions or the — the discrimination against Asian Americans, and I said,
“We do.” Because rhetoric, certainly from the massive megaphone you have
from the White House, is something that is heard across the country, and
it’s important to then be thoughtful about the words you use and how you
convey opposition to discrimination of any kind.  That was the answer —
the question I was answering.

The President is — and the Vice President are meeting with leaders of
the Asian American community tomorrow.  They — the President raised the
rhetor- — the — his concerns about rhetoric, about attacks, about
threats against the Asian American community in the country during his
primetime address.  He signs an executive order.  He’s asked his members
of his administration to listen, hear, think about policy solutions. 

I would say his effort is to be part of the solution, not part of the
problem.  So I would just dispute your — your question.

Go ahead, in the back.

Q    Thanks, Jen.  A few questions for you.  The President mentioned in
his ABC interview his thoughts on potential changes to the filibuster. 
I wondered, does he support getting rid of the 60-vote threshold on the
legislative filibuster?

MS. PSAKI:  I think what he said is that he’d be open to hearing ideas
about going back to the talking filibuster, which “Mr. Smith Goes to
Washington” is the best reference that anyone can make on that front. 
Obviously that hasn’t been the law in the Senate for — since before I
was born.  So, many years. 

But he — that is a — that is a proposal that had been put forward by
Senator Manchin.  And his whole point is that — and as he — as he said
in his comments, you know, our democracy looks at moments like it’s
broken, and it shouldn’t be so easy to block legislation. 

At the same time, his preference and his priority is working with
Democrats and Republicans to find a pathway forward on a range of issues
where there has been a history of bipartisan support, whether it’s
infrastructure, immigration, addressing — making our economy and our
workers more competitive against — against the competition with China. 
There are a lot of ways we can work together.  That’s his preference. 
And so he was just expressing an openness to hearing from members of the
Senate on what their ideas are.

Ultimately, though, as President, he doesn’t get a — he doesn’t vote
here.  It’s not a law he signs into law; it’s a Senate rule.  So you’ll
have to talk to them about what their ideas are and what they have the
votes for to move forward.

Q    So he would defer to senators on whether they support scrapping
(inaudible)?

MS. PSAKI:  It’s not about deferring.  He’s not in the Senate.  He
doesn’t decide what the Senate rules are.  They do.

Q    (Inaudible) influence if he were to voice an opinion.

MS. PSAKI:  He’s going to have the senators decide what — what rules
they want to abide by, moving forward.

Q    Just a couple other quick ones.  I wonder, there are a few key
agencies that have yet to have Senate-nominated or confirmed leaders
that are certainly in the news now — CBP, ICE, the FDA — during the
pandemic.  I wonder, does the administration have any plans or timetable
for when it might put forward nominees to lead those agencies?

MS. PSAKI:  All important agencies.  I don’t have any update on the
personnel process, but we’re working our way through and ensuring we
have the right people we can nominate for each of those important
roles. 

Q    And then, lastly, I wonder: This week, there’s a group of college
basketball players, ahead of the NCAA Tournament, who started a protest
on social media with the hashtag \#NotNCAAProperty.  And they’re looking
for more financial freedom and personal protections from the NCAA. 

I wondered: One of the things they’re asking for is a meeting with
federal officials, and potentially the Biden administration, to talk
about legislation on this.  So does the President support college
athletes being able to profit off their name and likeness?  And would
the administration be willing to meet with these players if they asked
for a meeting?

MS. PSAKI:  I’m happy to see if there’s any plans for a meeting and if
they’ve received the request.

Go ahead, in the back.

Q    Thank you, Jen.

MS. PSAKI:  Questions on U.S.-China meeting.  China has a poor record of
keeping promises.  So how would you characterize the level of trust that
the current administration has with regard to China?  And also, for the
Chi- — for the bilateral meeting between President Biden and President
Xi, what are the conditions that has to happen — what are the conditions
for the meeting to happen?  Thank you.

MS. PSAKI:  I don’t think I’m here to set conditions today.  There are —
we haven’t even announced the specific details about the climate summit
that’s happening in April, which I think was what the bilateral question
was around.  And we certainly haven’t made a final decision about any
bilateral meetings around that meeting.  As we do, I’m sure we can
discuss it further. 

And then, as it relates to the meeting today, I think one — or that
starts today, I should say — it was important to our administration that
the first meeting with Chinese officials be held on American soil and
occur after we have met and consulted closely with partners and allies
in both Asia and Europe.  This is an opportunity to address a wide
variety of issues, including ones where we have deep disagreements. 

And so our focus is on having a frank discussion, raising issues where
we have concerns, and of course, looking for ways and places where we
can work together.

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks.  While you’ve been briefing, President Putin has just
extended an invitation to President Biden to continue their
conversation, but this time he wants to do it live.  He’s asking for a
livestreamed conversation, an open, direct dialogue.  Putin says he’s
available tomorrow or Monday.  Is this something that you would
consider? 

MS. PSAKI:  I’ll have to get back to you if that is something we are
entertaining.  I would say that the President already had a conversation
already with President Putin, even if — as there are more world leaders
that he has not yet engaged with.  And we engage with Russian leaders,
members of the government at all levels, but I don’t have anything to
report to you in terms of a future meeting.  The President will, of
course, be in Georgia tomorrow and quite busy.

Go ahead.

Q    One very quick, final question on the wall.  On day one in office,
I think it was, the President signed a proclamation —

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.

Q    — that was effectively putting a pause or halting wall
construction.  At the time, I think he directed federal agencies to
formulate a plan within 60 days.  Depending who’s counting, we’re on 58,
59, or almost —

MS. PSAKI:  We have two more days.

Q    Do we have?  Okay.  Some said 59.  I thought it was one, but we’ll
go with two more days — to redirect border fund — border wall funds and,
quote, “resume, modify, or terminate” segments of the structure that
remain under construction.  Have those federal agencies provided you
with their conclusions?  Have you come to a conclusion?  What is the
status of that, with that remaining one or two days left?

MS. PSAKI:  I will check and see if there’s an update.  We are — of
course, there is funding that was appropriated previously that is still
moving forward.  Money that has not been appropriated, as you noted,
we’ve, kind of, pulled back on.  But I will check and see.  We have two
more days — which is a lifetime in this place — and see if we have an
update for you on this. 

Q    Thank you.

Q    Thank you, Jen.

MS. PSAKI:  Thank you, everyone.

(Audio interruption.)

Q    (Inaudible.)

MS. PSAKI:  It’s okay.  Oh, it’s your first day.  I’m sorry.

Q    I’m sorry.

MS. PSAKI:  Well, welcome.

Q    So, a lot of my colleagues in this room and outside this room have
been asking for a while now about the possibility of visiting these
facilities where unaccompanied children are being held after arriving
and applying for asylum at the border.  And part of the pushback that
we’ve received from you and from DHS and HHS is that there are privacy
concerns about reporters potentially, you know —

MS. PSAKI:  And COVID. 

Q    And privacy concerns and COVID.  But specifically to privacy:
Reporters have been allowed inside these facilities for years through
multiple administrations, by multiple agencies, including by the last
administration during the family separation crisis, where, I think, the
risk of, like, further emotional damage to these kids is pretty acute. 

So has there been, to your knowledge, any incident in which a kid’s
privacy was violated by reporters who were there to cover the facilities
in which they were being detained?

MS. PSAKI:  During the last administration?

Q    During, like, the long history of reporters being allowed to
(inaudible).

MS. PSAKI:  I would say, as I noted in response to a question — or two
questions that were asked earlier that were very similar, our big
concern has been the pandemic and COVID and safety.  Of course, there
are privacy concerns that anyone takes into account — or, I would say,
any administration should take into account, as it relates to members of
the media visiting a facility where there are children, as I’m sure you
would certainly agree on. 

I can’t speak to what the approach was of the prior administration who
was ripping children from the arms of their parents.  So I can’t speak
to what their policies were.

But we are working, and we are very committed here from the White House
and from the government in finding a way soon — very soon — to ensure
that there’s access by the media — not by us providing you with what we
see, but by the media to these shelter facilities.  We believe it’s
important and vital, and we’re committed to it.

And we’re just working through — the pandemic is about the safety of
staff, the safety of kids as well, and that’s — so that’s what we’re
working through at this point in time.  So hopefully I’ll have an update
soon. 

Thanks, everyone.

Q    And one question from a colleague who can’t be here because of
social distancing — speaking of.

MS. PSAKI:  Yep.

Q    The President said in the interview when he was discussing — going
back to, you know, the talking filibuster — that the filibuster is
(inaudible) because, quote, we’re almost “getting to a point
where…democracy is having a hard time functioning.” 

But my colleague points out that that dynamic has been true,
specifically in the Senate, for a very long time — years, even.  So was
there anything specific to the current dynamic in the Senate that made
President Biden, sort of, decide that, you know, now is a moment to
change the filibuster rules?

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  Well, as I answered in response to the question just
a few minutes ago, there are a number of ideas that members of the
Senate have put forward.  There — they range.  Some are against changing
the filibuster in the Democratic Party, some are for it.  Some are for
going back to a talking filibuster, back to the days of “Mr. Smith Goes
to Washington.”  He’s watching it closely.  He was in the Senate for 36
years.  He’s happy to hear their ideas. 

His preference remains working with Democrats and Republicans to get
business done for the American people.  So it’s a conversation, as you
well know, that’s happening on Capitol Hill right now, and he’s
certainly watching it as most other people are as well.  Thank you,
everyone.

1:34 P.M. EDT
