---
tags: press-briefings
date: '2021-03-29'
modified_time: 2021-03-29 13:35:23-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/03/29/press-briefing-by-white-house-covid-19-response-team-and-public-health-officials-21/
published_time: 2021-03-29 13:47:00-04:00
title: "Press Briefing by White\_House COVID-\u206019 Response Team and Public Health\_\
  Officials"
---
 
Via Teleconference

11:04 A.M. EDT  
  
ACTING ADMINISTRATION SLAVITT:  Good morning.  Thank you for joining
us.  Today, I’m joined by Drs. Walensky and Fauci.  The cases of
COVID-19 are once again on the rise.  Dr. Walensky will highlight the
public health consequences and strong public health recommendations for
the next few weeks.   
  
In the meantime, we are vaccinating the country as quickly as humanly
possible, now averaging 2.7 million vaccinations over the last seven
days.  Yesterday, the U.S. reported 3.28 million vaccinations.  This
is significant progress toward the President’s now doubled vaccination
goal of 200 million shots in his first 100 days in office and toward our
ultimate goal of getting all Americans vaccinated as equitably and
efficiently as possible.   
  
As we said on Friday, vaccine manufacturers report to us that they
remain on track to meet their targets by the end of the month.  And
Moderna announced that it had released its 100 millionth dose this
morning.  
  
As of today, 73 percent of seniors have now received their first dose. 
And 36 percent — more than 1 in 3 adults — have received their first
dose.  That’s 36 percent of adults.  Overall, now more than 50 million
Americans — approaching 1 in 5 adults — are fully vaccinated.   
  
The effort is an immensely complex endeavor, and pulling it off requires
tens of thousands of people doing their part.  And we are grateful to
everybody on the frontlines of this pandemic.  
  
This is good news.  We’re headed in the right direction.  But we can’t
slow down.  Millions remain unvaccinated and at risk.   
  
We need to keep increasing vaccine supply, the number of vaccinators in
the field, and adding more safe and convenient places for Americans to
get vaccinated, especially as more states begin to open vaccine
eligibility to all adults.  
  
Now, today, as part of this ongoing effort to help meet the President’s
goal of 200 million shots in his first 100 days, we’re announcing two
new federally run mass vaccination sites.  
  
The first is at America’s Center Convention Complex in St. Louis,
Missouri, and the second is at Roosevelt High School in Gary, Indiana. 
Soon, local residents will be able to get a shot at both of these
sites.  And together, they will be capable of administering 6,000 shots
per day.    
  
We now have 21 operational sites that have already administered a
combined 1.7 million shots.  These sites are run by the federal
government in close partnership with state and local officials.  And
they are placed in communities with high risk, according to CDC’s social
vulnerability index, with a direct goal of ensuring we’re equitably
distributing vaccines and reaching communities that have been hurt the
most by the pandemic.   
  
Before I turn it over to Dr. Walensky, I want to close by reiterating
what the President said last Thursday: Help is here, and hope is around
the corner.  But we’re not there yet, as Dr. Walensky will report.  The
worst thing we could do now would be to let up.  We cannot get
complacent.  We cannot let our guard down.   
  
It’s imperative for us to stick to the science and follow public health
guidance.  That means continuing to wear masks; masks save lives.  It
means continuing to socially distance; socially distancing saves lives. 
And it means getting vaccinated when it’s your turn, because getting
vaccinated saves lives — not just your own, but your family and friends
and neighbors too.   
  
With that, I’m going to turn this over to Dr. Walensky and then to Dr.
Fauci for some important updates.  
  
DR. WALENSKY:  Thank you, Andy.  I’m glad to be back with you all
today.  I want to begin with an overview of the continuing concerning
trends in the data.  Yesterday, we in the United States surpassed 30
million cases of COVID-19.  CDC’s most recent data show that the
seven-day average of new cases is slightly less than 60,000 cases per
day.  This is a 10 percent increase compared to the prior seven-day
period.   
  
Hospitalizations have also increased.  The most recent seven-day
average, about 48 admi- — 4,800 admissions per day, is up from 4,600
admissions per day in the prior seven-day period.  And deaths, which
typically lag behind cases and hospitalizations, have now started to
rise, increasing nearly 3 percent to a seven-day average of
approximately 1,000 deaths per day.  
  
When I first started at CDC about two months ago, I made a promise to
you: I would tell you the truth, even if it was not the news we wanted
to hear.  Now is one of those times when I have to share the truth and I
have to hope and trust you all listen.  
  
I’m going to pause here.  I’m going to lose the script.  And I’m going
to reflect on the recurring feeling I have of impending doom.  We have
so much to look forward to, so much promise and potential of where we
are, and so much reason for hope, but right now I’m scared.  I know what
it’s like as a physician to stand in that patient room — gowned, gloved,
masked, shielded — and to be the last person to touch someone else’s
loved one because their loved one couldn’t be there.  
  
I know what it’s like when you’re the physician, when you’re the
healthcare provider and you’re worried that you don’t have the resources
to take care of the patients in front of you.  I know that feeling of
nausea when you read the crisis standards of care and you wonder whether
there are going to be enough ventilators to go around and who’s going to
make that choice.  And I know what it’s like to pull up to your hospital
every day and see the extra morgue sitting outside.  
  
I didn’t know at the time when it was — when it would stop; we didn’t
have the science to tell us.  We were just scared.  We have come such a
long way.  Three historic scientific breakthrough vaccines, and we are
rolling them out so very fast.   
  
So I’m speaking today not necessarily as your CDC director — not only as
your CDC director but as a wife, as a mother, as a daughter to ask you
to just please hold on a little while longer.  I so badly want to be
done.  I know you all so badly want to be done.  We are just almost
there but not quite yet.  And so I’m asking you to just hold on a little
longer, to get vaccinated when you can so that all of those people that
we all love will still be here when this pandemic ends.  
  
The trajectory of the pandemic in the United States looks similar to
many other countries in Europe, including Germany, Italy, and France
looked like just a few weeks ago.  And since that time, those countries
have experienced a consistent and worrying spike in cases.  We are not
powerless; we can change this trajectory of the pandemic.  But it will
take all of us, recommitting to following the public health prevention
strategies consistently, while we work to get the American public
vaccinated.   
  
I’m calling on our elected officials, our faith-based communities, our
civic leaders, and our other influencers in communities across the
nation, and I’m calling on every single one of you to sound the alarm to
carry these messages into your community and your spheres of influence. 
We do not have the luxury of inaction.  For the health of our country,
we must work together now to prevent a fourth surge.   
  
And after that honest plea, I want to reflect on so many reasons we have
to be hopeful and why your actions today can get us out of this soon. 
As I shared last week, we continue to get more and more real-world
evidence on the protection of COVID-19 vaccines provide.  And CDC
scientists have been working since these vaccines were first authorized
to expand the evidence supporting their effectiveness.   
  
Today, I’m excited to share information about a new CDC-led study that’s
being published in the MMWR.  This study assesses the real-world
effectiveness of the Pfizer and Moderna vaccines in preventing
infections among nearly 4,000 healthcare personnel, first responders,
and other essential workers in six states from mid-December to
mid-March.   
  
The study found that the risk of infection was reduced by 90 percent
after individuals received the two recommended doses of the vaccine. 
The study also found that people starting to get a protective effect,
even after the first dose, the risk of infection decreased by 80 percent
after two weeks.  Findings of this are all consistent with the clinical
trial data.   
  
Importantly, people in the study received self-collected nasal swabs
each week for laboratory testing, allowing CDC to look at evidence of
COVID-19 infection whether or not people had symptoms.   
  
A small number of infections were asymptomatic; however, most infections
occurred among people whose infections were identified by testing before
they developed symptoms or knew they were infected.  This study also
demonstrates that two vaccines can reduce the risk of COVID-19
infections, not just in symptomatic infections but also in asymptomatic
or pre-symptomatic infections.   
  
This study is tremendously encouraging and complements other recent
studies published in the New England Journal of Medicine, and discussed
by Dr. Fauci last week, among similar populations at a high risk of
exposure to COVID-19 because of their occupations.  These findings also
underscore the importance of getting both of the recommended doses of
the vaccine in order to get the greatest level of protection against
COVID-19, especially as our concerns about variants escalate.  
  
Our national vaccination efforts are working.  As of yesterday, over 93
million people have received one or more doses of vaccine, and over 51
million people have been fully vaccinated.  And CDC is collaborating
across the government with our state, territorial, local, and tribal
partners to get vaccines to communities and to get vaccinations into
arms as quickly as possible through a multitude of channels, including
the Federal Retail Pharmacy Program, through FEMA’s community
vaccination centers and mobile clinics, and through HRSA’s Community
Health Center Program.   
  
These efforts are rapidly advancing our goal to getting 200 million
shots in arms during the first 100 days of this administration.  Over
one in three adults in this country have already received one dose.   
  
Finally, I want to share today that CDC is making important updates to
the list of underlying medical conditions that can increase risk of
severe COVID-19 outcomes.  This update is keeping in — up with my
commitment to lead with science, to have clear information on our
website, and to better describe the science underlying these
conditions.   
  
After a thorough review of the evidence, we have simplified the list of
underlying conditions for consumers and created a new page for
healthcare providers.  This will make it easier for patients and the
public and providers to understand the important information related to
their underlying medical conditions and its potential impact on COVID-19
severity.   
  
We’ve also updated the list of underlying medical conditions to include
substance use disorders, based on evidence that having these conditions
can increase risk of severe illness or death from COVID-19.  
  
You can now visit the CDC website to learn more about these underlying
medical conditions and the science evidence used to support their
inclusion in the list.   
  
I reach out to you both with my concerns — my concerns and also my hope
so that you can all be here to hear this message, healthy and vaccinated
in the months ahead.   
  
Thank you.  I will now turn things over to Dr. Fauci.  
  
DR. FAUCI:  Thank you very much, Dr. Walensky.  I’d like to make a few
comments over the next couple of minutes that extend what you just heard
from Dr. Walensky, and that is the importance of vaccination to prevent
severe disease and why we cannot pull back on our mitigation efforts. 
This is a paper from the Annals of Internal Medicine from some time ago
which showed that about one third of people with SAR-CoV-2 infection
never develop symptoms.  That’s the good news.   
  
Next slide.  
  
Of those who do develop symptoms, about 80 percent have mild to moderate
symptoms, but about 20 percent or more have severe disease with case
fatality rates varying from a few percent to up to 20 percent for those
requiring mechanical ventilation.  
  
Now let me show you something that is very dramatic.  If you look at the
multi-system manifestations of COVID-19, they are multitudinous, the
most important and common of which is the acute respiratory distress
syndrome.  But we know now there are neurological disorders, cardiac
dysfunction, acute kidney injury, hypercoagulability.  Bottom line: This
is a very serious disease, which has already led to the death of about
550,000 people in the United States.   
  
Next slide.  
  
This slide is very dramatic.  If you look on the left-hand part of the
slide, it’s a normal CT scan of the lung — the area that looks black and
dark on normal lung because there are air spaces.  On the right-hand
side of the slide is a patient that I made rounds on at the NIH Clinical
Center last week.  If you look at this, even a non-physician,
non-radiologist can determine that there’s something very, very wrong
with the lungs on the right-hand side, with the white blotches being
infiltration of the lung; that even with the patient being under the top
medical care that we’re giving them at our hospital still may very
likely have residual scarring of the lung after improvement.   
  
Next slide.  
  
This is another patient we serve at the Clinical Center who developed a
brain infarct, as shown on the left-hand part of the slide, with the
arrow pointing to the infarcted part of the brain.   
  
Bottom line, as Dr. Walensky said in her experience at Mass General, the
same at the NIH Clinical Center: This is a very, very bad disease.   
  
The fundamentals to prevent acquiring this are the public health
measures that Dr. Walensky mentioned but also vaccination.  Absolutely
critical.   
  
Next slide.  
  
If you look at the prevention of hospitalization and death among the
five vaccines on the left-hand part of the slide, with one exception of
a hospitalized patient in the vaccine arm of the Moderna study,
virtually 100 percent protection against hospitalizations and death.  In
other words, you can prevent what I showed you on the previous two
slides by getting vaccinated.   
  
And on the last slide, what you see in red is hospitalizations going
down, as in the blue bars vaccinating people going up.   
  
The bottom line: Hang in there, as Dr. Walensky said.  We really need to
hold on to the public health measures as we get more and more people
from two- to three-plus million people vaccinated every day.  It will be
a race between the vaccine and what’s going on with the dynamics of the
outbreak.  And we can win this by just hanging in there a bit longer.  
  
Back to you, Andy.  
  
ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Thank you, Dr. Fauci and Dr. Walensky. 
Let’s go to questions.  
  
MODERATOR:  The first question will go to Ed O’Keefe at CBS.  
  
Q    Thank you, guys, for doing this again as always.  I had one other
question, but given what the Director just said, I guess I want to
follow up a little bit and ask — if I heard you correctly, you said
you’re concerned about “impending doom.”  What is it that you saw in the
data that is causing you to sort of start to feel this way again?   
  
And then was curious if you guys can discuss what is the government or
the administration’s current role in issuing these so-called “passports”
or “certificates”?  And why is it taking a little while longer for the
U.S. to do that when places like Japan and China and the EU are further
along?  
  
ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  So, Dr. Walensky, why don’t you take the
first question, and I’ll endeavor to take the second?  
  
DR. WALENSKY:  When we were stagnating at around 40- to 50,000 cases a
day for a couple of weeks there, we didn’t see trends going down
anymore, but things were sort of holding steady.  What we’ve seen over
the last week or so is a steady rise in cases.  We’re now in the 60- to
70,000 range.  And when we see that uptick in cases, what we have seen
before is that things really have a tendency to surge and surge big.  
  
We know that cases sometimes can be a week or two behind the behaviors
that lead to those cases, the mixing that leads to those cases.  We know
that travel is up, and I just worry that we will see the surges that we
saw over the summer and over the winter again.  
  
ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Thank you.  And I’ll take your second
question.  Let me begin with this: We recognize this is a tricky and
important subject, but the core here is that Americans, like people
around the world, who are vaccinated will want to be able to demonstrate
that vaccination in various forms.  
  
This is going to hit all — all parts of society.  And so, naturally, the
government is involved.  But unlike other parts of the world, the
government here is not viewing its role as the place to create a
passport, nor a place to hold the data of citizens. 

We view this as something that the private sector is doing and will do. 
What’s important to us — and we’re leading an interagency process right
now to go through these details — are that some important criteria be
met with these credentials.

Number one, that there is equitable access; that means whether or not
people have access to technology or whether they don’t.  It’s also
important that we recognize that there are still many, many millions and
millions of Americans that have not yet been vaccinated.  So that’s a
fundamental equity issue.

Privacy of the information, security of the information, and a
marketplace of solutions are all things that are part of what we believe
in, as is the ability for people to access this free and in multiple
languages. 

So I think you will see more from us as we complete our interagency
process.  But this is not slowing down the process in any way, even
though the government has its own needs and so does the private sector. 
And the private sector and other groups working together are marching in
that direction. 

It is important for us, and it will be — we will be very clear about how
that will happen, that the guidelines that I just talked about are part
of that process. 

Next question. 

MODERATOR:  Next we’ll go to Chris Megerian at the Los Angeles Times. 

Q    Hi, everybody.  I wanted to see if you can specifically speak to
why this rise is happening.  Are you seeing it in restaurants?  Are you
seeing it in people’s homes?  Are you seeing it in the workplaces?  And
also, the administration has been urging people to be careful, you know,
since the new president took office in January.  Why is the
administration’s efforts not working in this situation? 

ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Let’s go around here, maybe start with
you, Dr. Walensky, and then, Dr. Fauci, you can come after that. 

DR. WALENSKY:  Yeah, I think we’re investigating some of these outbreaks
at a local level with individual states.  I think we are seeing that
many of these states are opening up at levels that we wouldn’t
necessarily recommend.  I am working with the governors.  I will be
speaking with them tomorrow to try and buckle down on trying to refrain
from opening up too fast, you know, in the context of the fact that
we’re scaling up these vaccines. 

I think we’ve seen an uptick in travel.  We have seen an uptick in
travel.  Much more travel is happening.  I think people want to be done
with this.  As I mentioned, I too want to be done with this.  The thing
that’s different this time is that we actually have it in our power to
be done with the scale of the vaccination.  And that will be so much
slower if we have another surge to deal with as well. 

ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Dr. Fauci, anything you want to add to
that?

DR. FAUCI:  Yeah.  I think everyone really needs to appreciate that we
really do want to get back to normal as quickly as we possibly can.  But
I think one of the explanations, in answer to the question that we just
heard, is that if we open up completely now, that is premature given the
level of infection that Dr. Walensky described in her formal
presentation. 

So that’s the reason why we’re essentially pleading with people, even
though we have — all of us — an urge, particularly with the warm weather
coming, to just cut loose.  We’ve just got to hang in there a bit
longer. 

And I think the reason we’re seeing this plateauing and a bit of a
little increase that we hope doesn’t turn into a surge is because we are
really doing things prematurely right now with regard to opening up.

ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Chris, will you —

DR. WALENSKY:  Perhaps one other —

ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Please, Dr. Walensky.

DR. WALENSKY:  Perhaps one other comment on that, and that is our
concern about variants.  We’ve been watching the variants really
carefully.  We know about 26 percent of all sequenced virus is now the
B117 variant.  It is more transmissible than the wild-type variant.  So
we’re watching that carefully, and that may be one of the reasons in
terms — if people are not doing the things — masking, distancing — to
protect themselves, this variant is probably less forgiving, and more
infections will occur. 

ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Chris, we recognize that it’s difficult
for people to both feel optimism and display caution at the same time. 
We believe one of the most important pieces of this formula — and that
the public tells us — is just clear, consistent, honest, direct,
straightforward information. 

That’s why in these briefings is you’ll see Dr. Fauci talks very
directly and shows data very directly, and Dr. Walensky presents
information and recommendations very clearly.  It’s not always what
people want to hear, but it’s always directly what people, for the most
part, say that they’re looking for, which is just the straight story
that they can assimilate and help them make decisions.

We hope that they’re hearing quite clearly a consistent message today,
which is that we don’t have a long time, necessarily, to be in this
state with, but we are not out of this pandemic yet.  If we do our jobs,
it can be short as possible. 

Next question. 

MODERATOR:  Next we’ll go to Zeke Miller at the AP.  
  
Q    Thank you all for doing the call.  Just a couple of quick
follow-ups on all these points.  Can you speak to specifically why you
don’t think the federal government is the right place to have set up a
vaccination passport?  I mean, given the data privacy concerns and
widespread adoption and equity concerns that you’ve just raised, Andy,
should — wouldn’t the federal government be best positioned to respond
to those?

In the case of — and then, separately, when it comes to the travel and
the virus guidance, Dr. Walensky, Dr. Fauci, should we expect to be
hearing more from the President about the need for people to double down
on these restrictions?  We’ve heard him (inaudible).  We have not heard
the President, sort of, lead the charge on that.  
  
And then finally — Andy, sorry — and sorry, Kevin, for the third
question here — can you speak to how the 11 million doses of J&J vaccine
that are expected to be shipped this week will be sent?  Will they be
allocated to the existing formula or will they be deployed in a
different — in a different way?  
  
ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Okay, so we have vaccine passport; we
have travel guidelines, which I will route to you, Dr. Walensky; and
then we have 11 million J&J doses.  Usually, I forget the third question
if there’s a third question by the time we get to it.  
  
You know, relative to the vaccine passport, we think it’s very important
for the public — job one is for the public to become comfortable if
they’re considering taking a vaccine — why that is in their best
interest.  And we think all of the data and all of the results and all
the impact in the slide that Dr. Fauci showed are the preponderance of
the reason we’re just so fortunate to be in this position relative to
these vaccines.  
  
We do know that there is a segment of the population that is concerned
that the government will play too heavy-handed of a role in monitoring
their vaccinations and that mandates will be coming from the federal
government and important — in point of fact, it would discourage people
to feel like that was the role we’re playing.  
  
So we think we can have the best of all worlds.  We think we can
essentially put forward guidelines and guidance.  And given the federal
government’s source and role in society for everything from the TSA, to
the VA, to Departments of Health and Human Services, the CDC — I could
go on and on — you know, we have a major impact in what we’ll get
done.  
  
So we’re putting forward our principles very clearly.  We will be even
more clear in the time ahead.  And we believe, based on everything we
know, that that will influence the outcome in the way we describe.  
  
So, with that, let me ask you, Dr. Walensky, to — if you can address the
travel question.  
  
DR. WALENSKY:  Yeah, our recommendations have been very consistent with
travel.  You should have a pre-travel test.  You should quarantine for
seven days.  You should have a post-travel test.  And then you should
monitor for symptoms between 7 and 14 days.  We have been consistently
discouraging travel, saying, “Please keep it limited to only essential
travel.”  
  
And what we’re seeing now is more travel than we saw — than we saw
throughout the pandemic, including the Christmas and New Year’s
holidays.  I think people have taken advantage of what they perceived as
a relative paucity of cases, a relative lull in where we were, to take
advantage of their time of spring break, of holiday travel.  And what I
would just say is, you know, we’ve seen surges after every single
holiday, and so — you know, July 4th, Labor Day, Christmas.  And we’re
seeing the uptick of that right now.  
  
So I would just sort of reiterate the recommendations from CDC, saying
please limit travel to essential travel for the time being.  
  
ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Your final question was about Johnson &
Johnson doses.  And indeed, let me — to the premise of your question,
Johnson & Johnson is due to deliver 11 million doses.  And as a
single-dose regimen, that’s an enormous step forward for the country.  
  
My message to the states, Tribes, and territories, and everyone else is:
Get ready.  This is an enormous opportunity to vaccinate more people. 
And tomorrow, we will be talking with the governors and others about how
we’re going to split that up.  
  
  
Next question.  
  
MODERATOR:  Next, we’ll go to Kaitlan Collins with CNN.  
  
Q    Thanks very much.  I have two questions.  One, if each of you could
answer this: With the release of the World Health Organization report,
can each of you say whether or not you trust the findings of this
report?  Maybe “yes” or “no” or — to keep it short.  
  
And then, secondly, to CDC Director Dr. Walensky, thank you for speaking
so candidly about the data that you’re seeing, but of course that raises
questions about restrictions that we are seeing be loosened in a lot of
states.  And also, on the President’s call for 100 days of mask wearing,
do you expect him to re-up that call or extend it past the 100 days
given the numbers that you’re seeing?  
  
ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Okay, Dr. Fauci, do you — would you like
to go first on the WHO question?  
  
DR. FAUCI:  Yeah, Kaitlan, I’d like to see that report first, and I also
would like to inquire as to the extent in which the people who were on
that group had access directly to the data that they would need to make
a determination.   
  
Once I get that information, I’ll be able to more adequately answer
whether I trust it or not.  But I want to read the report first, and
then get a feel for what they — what they really had access to or did
not have access to.  
  
ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Dr. Walensky.  
  
DR. WALENSKY:  Yeah, I don’t have much to add to what Dr. Fauci has said
with regard to the report.  And simply to say as I, too, have not yet
had an opportunity to see it.  
  
With regard to the surging, we are working closely with the states.  I
will be speaking with the governors tomorrow to try and reinforce the
need for these — for current restrictions to not open up.  I think what
we do with masking will really depend on where we are 40 days from
now.  
  
ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Yep.  And I would just add — it got to my
inbox this morning, so I’m going to reserve judgment as well.   
  
Next question.  
  
MODERATOR:  We have time for one more question.  We’ll go to Shannon
Firth with MedPage Today.  
  
Q    Hi, thank you for taking my question.  Dr. Walensky, I wondered if
you could expand on what you said regarding substance use disorders and
the concerns around exacerbating the risk of COVID-19 among those
people.  Are there other groups that there’s increased risk of COVID
outcomes, and are there any people that you’re taking off the list?  And
how would that change any policies or recommendations going forward?  
  
DR. WALENSKY:  Yeah, thank you for that.  I would invite you to, sort
of, visit the list.  It’s sort of a more — a comprehensive review.  We
do know that — we’ve seen data that folks who have substance use
disorders have increased risk of severe disease.  There’s a medical
review — a scientific review with that as well and an updated list of
the scientific review of all the disorders that are — or the underlying
conditions that may exacerbate COVID-19.  
  
ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Thank you.  Thanks for those questions. 
I invite everybody to tune into the President’s remarks later today. 
And we will be doing this briefing again later in the week.  Thank
you.  
  
11:36 A.M. EDT

To view the COVID Press Briefing slides,
visit <https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/03/COVID-Press-Briefing_29March2021_For-Transcript.pdf>
