---
tags: press-briefings
date: '2021-03-12'
modified_time: 2021-03-12 14:46:36-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/03/12/press-briefing-by-white-house-covid-19-response-team-and-public-health-officials-14/
published_time: 2021-03-12 14:46:35-05:00
title: "Press Briefing by White\_House COVID-\u206019 Response Team and Public Health\_\
  Officials"
---
 
Via Teleconference

11:18 A.M. EST

MR. ZIENTS:  Thank you everybody for joining us today.  Today, we will
get a state-of-the-pandemic update from Dr. Walensky, Dr. Fauci will
highlight the latest science, and Dr. Nunez-Smith will discuss our focus
on equity. 

But first, I want to start by giving an overview of the President’s
address to the nation.  Last night, President Biden announced that all
Americans will be eligible for vaccinations no later than May 1.  All
Americans no later than May 1.  And the President put the nation on a
path to get closer to normal by the 4th of July.

As many of you remember, on the President’s first full day in office, he
outlined a comprehensive strategy to beat this pandemic.  We’ve spent
every day since then executing against that strategy, and we are making
progress. 

As you can see on our weekly vaccination progress report, the current
seven-day average — the dark bar on the far right — is 2.2 million shots
per day.  That’s a new record pace that we will continue to build on. 

On Inauguration Day, only 8 percent of Americans 65 and over had gotten
their first vaccination.  Today, that number is nearly 65 percent.  This
is important because 80 percent of COVID deaths have been individuals 65
and over.  So we’re making progress, but there’s more work to do.

Last night, Americans heard the President say that all we — that all of
us need to do our part, and that if we do, there’s a good chance that
families and friends will be able to safely gather in small groups to
celebrate Independence Day.

I want to walk through the key components of our effort moving forward,
starting with May 1 eligibility.  The President will direct states,
tribes, and territories to make all adults eligible for the vaccine no
later than May 1st.  That’s earlier than expected and reflects our
success working with vaccine manufacturers to increase supply and secure
doses for all adult Americans, and also our progress in increasing both
the number of vaccinators and the number of places that people can get
vaccinated.

Now, that does not mean that everyone will get a shot immediately, but
May 1st is the date every adult will be eligible to sign up to get the
shot.  And by the end of May, we expect to have enough vaccine supply
available for all adults in this country.

To help ensure that we turn vaccine supply into shots and arms, the
President announced that we will continue to increase the number of
vaccinators in the place — the number of places to get vaccinated. 
First, over the coming weeks, we will deliver vaccines directly to up to
700 additional community health centers that reach underserved
communities, bringing the total number of these community health centers
participating in our federal vaccination program to 950.

Second, we will work to double the number of pharmacies participating in
the Federal Pharmacy Program.  We will make the vaccine available at
more than 20,000 pharmacies across America.

And the administration is instructing these pharmacies to expand mobile
operations into the hardest-hit communities to reach more people.

Third, the administration will more than double the number of federally
run mass vaccination centers to ensure that we hit the hardest-hit
communities — sorry, to ensure that we reach those hardest-hit
communities.  Many of these sites will include mobile operations to
further reach out to underserved communities and deliver thousands of
shots per day.

Today, in fact, I’m pleased to announce the addition of a new
FEMA-supported site in Detroit.  This site, located at Ford Field, home
of the Detroit Lions, has the ability to administer 6,000 shots per day.
 And last night, President Biden announced the deployment of more than
4,000 active-duty troops to support vaccination efforts, bringing the
total troop deployment to over 6,000.

Fourth, we will increase the number of vaccinators — people who can
administer shots in arms.  Dr. Nunez-Smith will talk about the
importance of today’s PREP Act amendment to increase the total number of
vaccinators in the field.

Now, we know the work to increase vaccine supply, vaccinators, and
places to get vaccinated is not enough on its own.  We need to make it
easier for every American to get vaccinated.  Too often, it’s too
difficult, too time consuming, and too frustrating for people to
identify where vaccines are available and where to schedule an
appointment.

That’s why the President, last night, announced steps to make it easier
for individuals to find a vaccine near them.

By May 1st, as vaccines are available in more places, the administration
will launch a federally supported website that will show the locations
near them that have available vaccines.

And because we know that not everyone has Internet access or is
comfortable online, we will also launch a call center to provide
assistance in finding a vaccine.  Since so many Americans use their
state and local websites to schedule vaccine appointments, the
administration will also deploy technology teams to help to improve
these systems.

Reopening schools safely is critical to getting closer to normal.  Last
night, President Biden discussed additional steps in our efforts to
reopen schools.  Now that the American Rescue Plan is law, $130 billion
will help schools pay for critical supplies to implement CDC’s
mitigation strategies, hire more staff, and support children’s academic,
social, and emotional needs.  And we’re getting educators vaccinated.

Last week, the President announced that he’s using the administration’s
authority to direct states that haven’t yet prioritized pre-K-through-12
school staff and childcare workers for vaccinations to do so
immediately.

As we work to get more people vaccinated, we need to expand testing,
diagnostic screening, and genomic sequencing.  With the American
Rescue’s \[sic\] Plan $1.7 billion investment, we will dramatically
expand our ability to sequence samples to identify, track, and mitigate
emerging variants.  And the administration will use the nearly $50
billion in testing that comes from the funding in the American Rescue
Plan to invest in screening and testing to help schools reopen safely,
and also to expand testing in congregate settings, including shelters
for individuals experiencing homelessness, prisons, and other settings
where individuals live in close quarters.

Across the next several weeks, the CDC will provide public health
guidance based on the best available science and the pace of
vaccinations for people as they travel, participate in small gatherings,
and go to work, and in houses of worship. 

Also, as we increase the number of people vaccinated, we know some
people may have a need to demonstrate that they are vaccinated.  The
private sector and not-for-profit coalitions are already beginning to
work on this.  Our role is to help ensure that any solutions in this
area should be simple, free, open source, accessible to people both
digitally and on paper, and designed from the start to protect people’s
privacy.

As the President noted last night, this fight is far from over.  We
still have a lot of work to do.  This is certainly not a time to put
down your guard.  Mask up and follow the public health standards.  We
need all Americans to get vaccinated as soon as it’s their turn, and to
help your family and friends and neighbors get vaccinated, as well. 

Together, unified, we can defeat this pandemic, and we can all celebrate
a more normal Fourth of July with our family and friends, gathering in
small groups, to celebrate the holiday.

With that, I’ll turn it over to Dr. Walensky.  Dr. Walensky?

DR. WALENSKY:  Thank you, Jeff.  It’s good to be back with you all
today.  We are now officially one year and one day into the COVID-19
pandemic.  As I reflect back on the near-impossible clinical decisions
we had to make to prioritize scant resources — ventilators and PPE — I
recall those moments, and I’m sure many of you shared them, where I felt
powerless and hopeless.  And here we are, one very long year later, led
by science and propelled by a growing sense of hope that we can and we
will get out of this together. 

But cases and hospitalizations and deaths remain high, and we’ve been
fooled before into being too lax.  So now is the time to double down to
see this through. 

CDC’s most recent data shows cases continue to fluctuate between 50- and
60,000 new cases per day, with the most recent seven-day average being
more than 55,500 cases per day.  The most recent seven-day average of
hospital admissions continues to decline, down from the previous
seven-day period to about 4,900 admissions per day.  We also continue to
see around 1,500 to 1,800 deaths per day, with the latest seven-day
average being just over 1,500 deaths per day. 

I’m encouraged by these data, but we much — must remain vigilant to
continue in our efforts to get cases, admissions, and deaths down. 

We’re making remarkable progress on our vaccination efforts.  We now
have more than 64 million people who received at least one dose of
vaccine, and we are vaccinating millions more each day.  This is our
path out of the pandemic.  As you heard last night from the President,
we are working as quickly as we can to ensure that every American has
access to vaccine.

As we get more vaccinations into communities, I am asking everyone to do
the right thing: Continue taking public health precautions and be ready
to roll up your sleeve when that vaccine is available to you.

Throughout the pandemic, parents and caregivers have faced the
challenging task of balancing childcare responsibilities with work
responsibilities, often operating in virtual environment, with limited
childcare options.  We know that childcare programs and early childhood
education are essential to healthy childhood development.  The services
these programs offer are important for working parents and provide a
safe, stable, and nurturing environment for kids to get them ready for
school and develop critical social and emotional skills. 

Like other businesses and community services, many childcare programs
have been challenged in their response to the pandemic.  Early last
year, CDC released initial guidance for childcare programs during
COVID-19.  As we learned more about the virus, CDC experts updated that
guidance several times throughout 2020.

Today, CDC is again releasing updated guidance based on the most recent
science.  That science includes additional evidence showing that, when
used consistently and correctly, prevention strategies such as mask
wearing, staying home when sick, and good hand hygiene can allow
childcare programs to operate safely and reduce the spread of COVID-19. 

This updated guidance is intended for all types of childcare providers,
including childcare centers, family childcare homes, Head Start
programs, and pre-kindergarten programs, and is meant to supplement, not
to replace, other laws, rules, or regulations that childcare programs
must follow. 

The guidance includes strategies that childcare programs can use to
maintain healthy environments and operations, to lower the risk of
COVID-19 clusters in their programs, to prepare for when someone is sick
with COVID-19, and to support coping and resilience for their staff and
children and parents they serve.

Critically, the updated guidance evidence — emphasizes the importance of
mask wearing for all children older than two years old and all staff,
except when eating or sleeping.  It also highlights strategies such as
cohorting, where groups of children are kept together with the same
peers and staff to reduce the risk of spread throughout the program. 
The guidance also provide recommendations on simple, low-cost
ventilation strategies, how to adapt the environment for children with
disabilities and special needs, and ways to make spaces, such as
communal spaces, food service areas, and other — and play areas safer. 

Recognizing that guidance can sometimes be complex, we’re also releasing
a suite of complimentary resources, infographics, and toolkits to help
programs with implementation.  For example, we have included quick
guides and flowcharts to help you know what to do if a child becomes ill
or is showing signs of COVID-19 while in care.  All of these resources,
along with the guidance, are now available at CDC.gov.  I hope that
childcare providers will view the guidance as a one-stop shop for
strategies they can use to safely provide care and enrichment to our
nation’s children.

In addition, I’m excited to note that the American Rescue Plan, signed
by the President yesterday, includes $24 billion in emergency funding to
help support childcare providers.  This funding can be used to pay for
rent, utilities, and staff, but also to help childcare providers
implement COVID-19 prevention strategies. 

I also want to stress that our childcare guidance emphasizes the
importance of COVID-19 vaccination as an additional layer of prevention
for childcare workers.  I strongly encourage America’s childcare workers
to get vaccinated.

Last week, President Biden directed all states to prioritize childcare
workers, as well as K-through-12 teachers and school staff for COVID-19
vaccination in March. 

CDC is taking a leading role in helping to achieve the President’s goal
through our Federal Retail Pharmacy program.  We now have over 9,000
pharmacies participating nationwide, while childcare workers are being
prioritized for vaccination appointments. 

If you are a childcare worker and want to get vaccinated, please visit
CDC.gov and check out the pharmacy partners that are participating in
your state.  Our website also provides information on where to go to
schedule your appointment. 

And if you are a childcare center whose workers don’t uniformly have
access to the web, please work with your center and your community to
assist them in making appointments. 

Finally, as we’re talking about the impact of this pandemic has had on
childrens and family, I want to share with you another concerning way
that COVID-19 is affecting the health of our nation: disrupting our
ability to vaccinate children against other infectious diseases. 
On-time vaccination throughout childhood is essential because it helps
to provide immunity before child — children are exposed to potentially
life-threatening diseases. 

During the pandemic, we have seen substantial declines in pediatrician
visits.  And because of this, CDC orders for childhood vaccinations
dropped by about 11 million doses — a substantial and historic decline.

As we work to get our children back to school, we certainly do not want
to encounter other preventable infectious outbreaks such as measles and
mumps.  When planning for your child’s safe return to childcare programs
or to school, please check with your child’s doctor to make sure that
they are up to date on their vaccines.  As if they did — and if they did
fall behind, they can get caught up by following CDC’s catch-up
immunization schedule available on the CDC website. 

This pandemic has taken so much from us already.  We must work together
to protect our children’s health now and in the future. 

Thank you.  I’ll now turn things over to Dr. Fauci. 

DR. FAUCI:  Thank you very much, Dr. Walensky.  I’d like to spend just a
few minutes on updating you from something that I spoke about a couple
of pressers ago regarding therapy and, in some respects, prevention of
COVID-19 disease. 

If I could have the next slide. 

This is a slide, again, which I had shown previously.  And the reason I
repeat it is because what I’m going to tell you over the next two or
three minutes relates to things that will be very useful if one consults
the treatment guidelines, which, as I mentioned, is a living document
which is updated on a regular basis as new clinical data come in.

The reason why I point this out is that, recently, there has been a
considerable amount of information regarding some of the monoclonal
antibodies that are used in the prevention and treatment of COVID-19.

Recall, a week or so ago, I spoke to you about the direct antiviral
agents that we are pursuing in a very proactive way.  What we’re going
to be talking about in the next minute or two are the monoclonal
antibodies. 

So just to orient you, there are a number of monoclonal antibodies, not
all of them directed against the virus itself.  For example, tocilizumab
is an anti-IL-6 receptor antibody from Genentech.  I’ll get to that in a
moment. 

The monoclonal antibodies that are directed against the SARS-CoV-2 spike
protein — usually the receptor-binding domain — are bamlanivimab from
Lilly, etesevimab from Lilly, the VIR-7831 by Vir-GSK, and a cocktail
from Regeneron called casirivimab and imdevimab — again, from
Regeneron. 

So let’s just go to the next slide. 

We’ll talk about monoclonal antibodies for COVID-19 treatment.

Next slide.

I had mentioned that tocilizumab — there was a recent guideline alert
from the NIH, which showed that this particular monoclonal antibody in
combination with dexamethasone, for certain advanced hospitalized
patients, namely patients who were exhibiting rapid respiratory
decompensation, showed that it was useful in the treatment of these
individuals who are exhibiting this rapid progression of disease.

Next slide. 

Now getting to the monoclonal antibodies against the virus itself, the
combination of bamlanivimab and etesevimab recently — literally, a
couple of days ago at the CROI Conference, which is the Conference on
Retroviruses and Opportunistic Infections.  I point that out to you — is
that many of the researchers who had previously devoted their careers to
studying HIV have now pivoted because of the emergency nature of
COVID-19.  In this study reported at CROI, in individuals who were
ambulatory — with the question being asked, “Can we keep them out of the
hospital?” — it showed a 70 percent reduction in COVID-related
hospitalizations and deaths, by any cause, by day 29 in people who
received this combination as opposed to placebo. 

Next slide. 

There was another study by Vir — which is a combination of the Vir
Biotechnology Company and GSK — who announced that their product,
VIR-7831 — again, in ambulatory patients — reduced hospitalization and
risk of death, with an 85 percent reduction when you look at this
compared to placebo. 

Next slide. 

Very quickly now, looking at monoclonal antibodies for COVID-19
prevention, as opposed to treatment: In this study reported a couple of
days ago, bamlanivimab prevented COVID-19 morbidity and mortality in the
nursing home setting.  What does that mean?  It meant that in an
individual where you have infection in a nursing home, and you looked at
the groups — be they staff or residents — who were randomized to placebo
versus bamlanivimab, there was an 80 percent reduction in the incidence
of moderate or worse COVID-19 at eight weeks. 

Next slide. 

Here again is the Regeneron COV antibody cocktail that I mentioned just
previously.  In this situation, it was within a household setting — in
other words, where there is a infection in the household setting — and
you’re looking at the results of randomized — the family members, either
to this cocktail or to placebo, to determine if you can prevent, namely
a post-exposure prophylaxis, or if you can treat early disease. 

The results were really dramatic.  There was 100 percent protection
against symptomatic infection in the group, compared to placebo.  And it
reduced the overall infection rate by 50 percent.  And importantly,
those who were infected had 100-fold lower viral load and shorter
duration of the detectable viral RNA. 

Now, the reason I show you the slide on the NIH treatment guidelines is
that this is a very fluid area of research, particularly since, as I
mentioned on a previous presser, that these monoclonal antibodies can be
knocked out, particularly when given as monotherapy, by different
variants — which is the reason why, as we go on — and I will report to
you at future meetings — you will see mostly combinations of these
antibodies, as opposed to single ones, because the single ones are most
vulnerable to the variants that can knock them out easily. 

I’ll stop there and turn it over to Dr. Nunez-Smith.

DR. NUNEZ-SMITH:  Thank you so much, Dr. Fauci.  It’s great to be here. 
I’m just going to return us to vaccines for a moment.  So, you know, as
a doctor, as a frontline worker myself, I am very excited to see that
more of my healthcare colleagues now have the chance to further expand
their participation in the response.

You know, and as Jeff said, expanding the number of places people can
get vaccinated, as well as a number of vaccinators — that’s going to be
critical for us as we drive an equitable response.

You know, we are faced with this reality that marginalized and
minoritized communities are often the first to be forgotten, especially
when resources are in short supply.  And so we remain very committed to
disrupting that narrative.

You know, with today’s announcement, up to 700 new community health
centers coming online, a doubling of pharmacy locations, and a surge in
vaccinators, we’re ensuring that equity remains at the center of our
response.

So I want to just take a minute to touch on the newly eligible
vaccinators.  You know, to help meet the demand for more shots in arms
once everybody is eligible for vaccines come May 1, the administration
is expanding the pool of qualified professionals who will be able to
administer shots.  And so this list now includes dentist, optometrist,
paramedics, physician assistants, and many more, including trained
medical and healthcare students.

You know, alongside this effort, the Department of Health and Human
Services will launch a new portal to help individuals determine where
they can sign up to volunteer to administer shots.

We know a person’s zip code is a stronger driver of health than their
genetic code, so we will continue to prioritize getting the necessary
resources to those areas and communities that have been hardest hit and
are at highest risk.

As we fight against centuries of structural inequities, we must be
intentional about making vaccination easy and convenient for everyone,
and key to that effort is having enough vaccinators to deliver shots in
arms.  So I encourage my fellow healthcare colleagues to visit the new
portal at PHE.gov.  Check your status and sign up to help.

So, thanks so much in advance.  And with that, I’ll turn it back over to
you, Jeff.

MR. ZIENTS:  Well, thank you.  Let’s open it up for questions.

MODERATOR:  All right, we’ll start doing questions now.  Just a reminder
to please keep your question to one question so we can get through as
many as possible.

First we’ll go to Carl O’Donnell at Reuters.

Q    Hey.  One thing I wanted to ask you: So there’s been, you know,
some commentary lately from a number of different — from a number of
different groups about the impact of U.S. export controls on, you know,
both efforts in places like India to scale up global supply and also,
you know, AstraZeneca’s ability to get shots to the EU, where it’s
already been authorized. 

Just wondering if you can sort of share any views that you guys have on
that and whether, you know, there’s any reassessment for, you know, how
to make sure that the global supply chain is streamlined.

MR. ZIENTS:  So, you know, the President has been very focused on
fulfilling his responsibility to the American people.  And we as a
country have suffered over a half million deaths — more than any country
in the world — so we’re rightly focused on getting Americans vaccinated
as soon as possible.  And, you know, as we’ve talked about, we’re
pleased with the progress, and there’s yet a long road ahead.

However, we know this is a global pandemic and that the virus has no
borders.  That’s why the President is providing — the United States is
providing the most funding of any country to COVAX — over $4 billion. 
It’s why we — the President, on his first day in office, reengaged with
the WHO.  And that’s why just today, this morning, I participated in the
Quad meeting with the President, and it was announced that we’re working
to achieve expanded manufacturing of safe and effective COVID-19
vaccines at facilities in India.  And we also believe that the historic
partnership between J&J and Merck will help expand capacity and
ultimately benefit the world.

So we will continue to prioritize getting all Americans vaccinated as
quickly as possible while at the same time understanding this is a
global pandemic and making as big a contribution as we possibly can to
worldwide efforts to get everyone else vaccinated.

MODERATOR:  Next question will go to Kaitlan Collins at CNN.

Q    Thanks very much.  I have two questions — one super quick.  One is:
How many people do you actually want to see vaccinated by July 4th in
order to meet that goal of having those small gatherings that the
President was talking about?

And secondly — I think this is probably best for Jeff, but you all have
said we’ll have enough vaccine for everyone by the end of May — not that
everyone will get it by then.  But if we’re looking at these numbers, it
looks like Moderna will have 200 million by then, Pfizer 200 million,
and Johnson & Johnson 20 million.  So, that’s enough, based on my math,
for about 220 million people.  So where are those other vaccines coming
from in order to have enough for all eligible Americans by the end of
May?

MR. ZIENTS:  So, Kaitlan, I think your 20 million is the figure that
Johnson & Johnson has talked about in terms of their cumulative doses by
the end of this month.  The work that we did, working with Johnson &
Johnson and Merck to accelerate their manufacturing process —
particularly the fill-finish piece, which is relevant in this timeframe
— has it so that Johnson & Johnson is now delivering at or near its 100
million by the end of May.

So if you take the 200 million doses by the end of May, of Moderna, plus
the 200 million doses of Pfizer, plus the at or near 100 million
completion of the Johnson & Johnson first contract, that is more than
enough supply to vaccinate — vaccine supply to vaccinate all adult
Americans by the end of May.

Now, we need to ramp up the number of vaccinators, as we’ve been talking
about, and the number of places where Americans can get vaccinated so
that when all adults are — Americans are eligible on May 1st, we can
accelerate and move very quickly to get as many Americans vaccinated as
soon as possible.

DR. WALENSKY:  Maybe I’ll just address the second — the first question,
and that is: We’re not looking at a single metric of a fraction of
people vaccinated in a vacuum.  We’re looking at it in the context of
what’s going on with the pandemic, as well.  So I don’t think we can put
a single metric on that, as well as what’s happening in — what science
has emerged with regard to vaccinated people.  So, it’s hard to put a
metric on a single number

MODERATOR:  Great.  Next question will go to Cheyenne Haslett at ABC.

Q    Hi, thanks for taking my question.  How likely do you think it will
be that states can open up to every adult before May, when it comes to
that vaccine supply?  And when should states really be expecting the
floodgates to open on vaccines?

MR. ZIENTS:  Well, I think that the key here is that May 1 is a date
that the President will direct using his authorities.  There, hopefully,
will be states — and we already have one in Alaska — that open up before
then, and we’re doing everything we can to encourage states to get as
many needles in arms as fast and efficiently as possible. 

And this is where increasing the number of vaccinators, the number of
places, the can community vaccination centers, the federal pharmacy
channel, the community health centers — as we continue to scale those
efforts, we can accelerate from the 2.2 million rate that we’re having
on average per day now — hopefully, we can accelerate that further.  And
there will be states that open before May 1, but May 1 is an absolute
deadline for all Americans to be eligible to receive the vaccine.

MODERATOR:  Next question will go to Sean Sullivan at the Washington
Post.

Q    Thanks very much.  Can you talk a little bit about why the
President felt the need to set out specific dates in his speech last
night, and also how you intend to manage the public’s expectation of
what will happen by those dates?  As you’ve pointed out and as the
President pointed out, you know, things could change, the situation
could change.  But how do you manage expectations from a public that
might not always be paying attention to some of those developments,
caveats that could make things change?

MR. ZIENTS:  So I think it’s — I think we all would agree that it’s
important to have deadlines and goals, and we spent a lot of time
working through the supply, the number of places, the number of
vaccinators, and we believe May 1st is the right deadline.  No later
than May 1st. 

So we will have enough supply, as we’ve talked about, by the end of May,
given all the President’s work and leadership to bring forward the
supply and create enough supply for all adult Americans by May 31st.  We
will have enough vaccinators and enough places for people to get
vaccinated. 

And the funding from the American Rescue Plan really helps to ensure
that we will have that capacity to do the 2.2 million shots per day that
we’re currently doing, and hopefully to accelerate off of that pace as
we add more places and more vaccinators.

MODERATOR:  All right.  We got time for one more question.  We’ll go to
Zeke at AP.

Q    Thank you all for doing this.  First, for Jeff, can you speak to —
with the expansion in the retail pharmacy program and as well as the
community health center program, how many doses are you starting to
divert into that — into that stream — that fairly controlled stream?  I
know you’ve told the governors that their allocations will remain
largely static for the coming weeks. 

And then, just another one on the AstraZeneca, in particular: With the
stockpile of millions of doses here in the United States that aren’t
approved here but they can be used overseas, with that EUA still up in
flux, why not just send those vaccines overseas right now to help out
and save some lives, with American allies in particular?

MR. ZIENTS:  Well, the allocation that we’ll make on a going-forward
basis will be based on performance of the different channels.  And
performance is a function of speed and efficiency, but as Dr.
Nunez-Smith talked about, as importantly, equity and fairness.  The next
couple of weeks of supply overall are relatively flat before supply
really starts to accelerate towards the end of the month, and then into
April and into May.

Now, when I say “relatively flat” — at a level that’s more than twice
what it was six or seven weeks ago.  So allocation will be based on
performance, and we believe that community health centers are
particularly important in order to reach hard-to-reach communities and
to ensure fairness and equity.  The pharmacy program is also structured
around fairness and equity.  So we’ll make future allocations based on
performance.

As to AstraZeneca, we’re following the exact same process that we did
with the other three now-approved vaccines — Moderna, Pfizer, and J&J. 
And just as we did with those vaccines, as we awaited for the completion
of the clinical trial — and right now, my understanding is that
AstraZeneca is in the middle of its phase three trial — and then an FDA
determination of when they submit the data from the clinical trial, we
have a small inventory of AstraZeneca so that, if approved, we can get
that inventory out to the American people as quickly as possible, as we
just did with J&J.  So, AstraZeneca, we’re awaiting the clinical trial
and then the decision by the FDA and CDC.

I think that’s it on questions.  I just want to thank everybody for
joining today, and we look forward to seeing you on Monday.  Thank you.

11:54 A.M. EST

To view the COVID Press Briefing slides, visit
<https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/03/COVID-Press-Briefing_12Mar2021_for-transcript.pdf>
