---
tags: press-briefings
date: '2021-03-11'
modified_time: 2021-03-11 19:33:48-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/03/11/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-jen-psaki-march-11-2021/
published_time: 2021-03-11 19:33:47-05:00
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Jen\_Psaki, March 11,\_2021"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

2:18 P.M. EST

MS. PSAKI:  Hi, everyone.  Thanks for your patience.  A little delayed
today, but for good reason.  So I have a couple of items at the top.

As you know, tonight the President will deliver his first primetime
address to the American people at 8:00 p.m.  Today marks the one-year
anniversary of the shutdown due to COVID-19, and the President will
speak directly to the American people about the sacrifices made — from
the more than 500,000 lives lost, to the millions of people who are lost
— have lost their jobs, and the even millions more who have been
impacted by the pandemic.

He’ll provide an update on the work of his team to address the greatest
operational challenge the country has faced and the work his team has
done to rapidly increase the number of vaccinations — vaccines,
vaccinators, and vaccination sites.  And he will lay out the next steps
he will take to get the pandemic under control. 

Even while he was focused on getting the American Rescue Plan across the
finish line, he has been reviewing drafts of the speech — last week, he
was and, of course, through the course of this week — and making line
edits.  He has been providing line edits in order to ensure that he is
striking the right tone and providing the right level of clarity as he
prepares to address the country this evening.

He plans to provide a clear outline of his approach, level with the
American people about what is required of them, but also provide a sense
of hope of what is possible.

I wanted to provide a little bit more on upcoming travel, as you — of
all of our principals, as we worked — as we prepare to go out and engage
with the American people about what is in the Rescue Plan.  As you know,
next week, the President, the Vice President, the First Lady, and the
Second Gentleman will be traveling across the country to kick off the
“Help is Here” tour and amplify the American Rescue Plan.

On Monday, the First Lady will travel to Burlington, New Jersey.  The
Vice President and Second Gentleman will travel to Las Vegas, Nevada.

On Tuesday, the President will travel to Delaware County, Pennsylvania,
as you already are aware.  The Vice President and Second Gentleman will
travel to Denver, Colorado.

On Wednesday, the Second Gentleman will travel to Albuquerque, New
Mexico.

And on Friday, the President and the Vice President will travel to
Atlanta, Georgia.

During their trips, they will discuss the benefits of the American
Rescue Plan for working families, and they will engage with people at
each of these stops about how the American people can benefit from the
components of the package moving forward.  So they will talk about the
$1,400 checks that more than — that 158.5 million American households
can expect, in which — and many who will start receiving them soon. 

He will talk about the historic expansion of the Child Tax Credit.  He
will talk about extending — they will all talk about extending
unemployment insurance for around 11 million Americans; the tens of
billions of dollars in rental and homeowner’s assistance that is a part
of this package; the expansion of the Earned Income Tax Credit, which
will go to 17 million workers; and the components of the package that
significantly reduce health insurance premiums for millions of American
families.  And, of course, the fact that the bill will lift 11 million
people out of poverty and cut child poverty in half.  They’re eager to
get out there on the road.

And I have one more exciting implementation update for all of you. 
Since the Treasury Department — Department of Treasury and the IRS are
working hard to get relief payments out the door as fast as possible to
the American people, people can expect to start seeing direct deposits
hit their back accounts as early as this weekend.  This is, of course,
just the first wave, but some — people will start — some people in the
country will start seeing those — those direct deposits in their bank
accounts this weekend.  And payments to eligible Americans will continue
throughout the course of the next several weeks. 

So, with that, Jonathan, why don’t you kick us off?

Q    Thank you, Jen.  Tomorrow, the Chief of Staff tweeted, there’ll
still be a celebration, in terms of this bill signing.  Congressional
leaders would be attending.  Can you tell us who will be there, and if
any Republicans — who none of them voted for this bill — would be
invited?

MS. PSAKI:  So, the celebration tomorrow will be a bipartisan — I mean a
bicameral, excuse me, event, but it will not be bipartisan.  It will be
— it will include leadership, and we are still finalizing the list of
attendees, but we hope to get that to you as soon as it’s finalized.

Q    Can you walk us through, as part of the “Help is Here” tour,
decisions behind the locations for the travel next week, in particular,
the President’s two stops?  Why Pennsylvania and why Georgia?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, this is just the beginning of the President’s and the
First Lady’s and the Vice President’s and the Second Gentleman’s travel,
and they will, of course, do some travel in addition to next week.  But
it was important to the President to visit not just blue states, but
also red states, purple states.  You will see that reflected as we
continue to announce travel and trips that he will take in the coming
weeks. 

Obviously, these are two places where he, of course, talked about the
importance of delivering on the promise of getting every American the
$2,000 checks when he campaigned in Georgia in December.  So that’s a
place where that message really resonated, of course, with the people of
the state, and where it was amplified to the public.  But, you know,
it’s a place also close to his heart. 

But this is just the beginning of the travel.  I wouldn’t over read into
it, other than he is looking to having — he’s looking forward to having
the senior members of the — the principals from the administration out
across the country — fanning out across the country, which is exactly
what they’re doing.

Q    And I have one more on a — on a different topic: The trial of
Minneapolis police officer Derek Chauvin has begun in connection to the
death of George Floyd.  Has the President been briefed on the
developments so far?  And he condemned the death, certainly, when it
happened.  Does he believe that police officers should be convicted of
murder?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, the President obviously doesn’t weigh into — he’s not
going to weigh into an ongoing judicial — or a legal case.  He’s
watching it closely, as are many members of the administration. 

As you know, he, himself, encouraged the House to pass the bill that —
and he is very pleased that it did.  And policing reform in — broadly
speaking, is an issue that he believes is urgent and one that he is
committed to working with leaders in Congress and also taking steps, as
he can take on his own, to address. 

But, you know, he has spoken about — he spoke about the trial and, of
course, the — the death of George Floyd in personal terms.  And that is
a reflection of how he continues to feel as he watches the events unfold
with the trial.  It affected him personally.  It redoubled his
commitment to address — advancing racial justice.  That’s why he signed
an executive order on racial equity on his sixth day — one of the
reasons why he signed an executive order on racial equity on his sixth
day in office.  And, of course, he will be watching it closely, as many
people in the country will be.

Go ahead, Jeff.

Q    Jen, just a follow-up on some the vaccine news from yesterday.  The
President said that one reason he wanted to have another 100 million
doses of the Johnson & Johnson vaccine in the cupboards, as it were, is
to be prepared.  If everyone is vaccinated by the end of May, or at
least able to be, what are you preparing for?  What might happen that
the U.S. would need an additional 100 million shots for?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, we talked about this a little bit yesterday.  But the
reason why — one of the reasons why we ordered the additional 100
million doses is because we don’t yet know what vaccine is most
effective with children.  Those tests — that testing is still happening
with the FDA, as we speak.

As you noted, he wants to be over prepared and oversupplied.  We’re
still looking at the impact of variants.  These — this order of dosage
can — doses can also be used for booster shots, which is something
that’s also under review by the FDA.  So he’s just preparing to ensure
we are ready for every contingency here in the United States.

Of course, we want to be a part of the effort around the world to
vaccinate people around the world in a range of countries.  That’s why
we’ve provided $2 billion to COVAX with another $2 billion committed. 
We are the largest funder of global health in the world, and we’ve
invested over $150 billion in global health activities since 2000. 
We’ve reengaged, on day one, with the World Health Organization.  And
we’re continuing to engage — he is personally, and many levels of our
administration are engaged personally with their counterparts about
addressing this pandemic globally. 

But his first priority and focus is on ensuring that the American people
are vaccinated.  And once we are at that point, we will have a
discussion about what’s next.

Q    My understanding is the President directed this to happen
yesterday, but the deal is not — with J&J, isn’t yet in place.  When do
you expect the deal to be made?

MS. PSAKI:  Soon.  I can get you an update.  I can check with our team
and see if there’s — what the final details are, but we certainly
anticipate and expect the deal to fully move forward.

Q    Just one other vaccine question related to a story that my
colleagues did from Europe.  Has the U.S. told the European Union not to
expect deliveries of COVID-19 vaccines from AstraZeneca that are made in
this country?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would say, first we have conveyed privately what
we’ve conveyed publicly, which is that our focus is on ensuring the
American people are vaccinated.  And, of course, any company can work
with any country around the world on the purchase of vaccine supply. 
And certainly that wouldn’t be something the U.S. government would be
directly engaged with.

But in terms of the supply we have purchased, our first focus, our
primary focus is on vaccinating the American people. That’s what we’ve
conveyed publicly and privately, as well.

Q    Yeah, you’ve said that a lot.  But have there been any specific
indications or conversations with the EU, saying, “Don’t expect this to
come from our country, at least until the rest of this population is
vaccinated”?

MS. PSAKI:  We have pretty — we have said that — we have said publicly
exactly what I’ve conveyed, which is what I’m conveying as we convey the
same thing privately.  Of course, any country can purchase vaccines from
these manufacturers directly. 

Go ahead.

Q    Thank you.  Mexico’s President Andrés Manuel López Obrador says the
people coming into the U.S. right now see Biden — President Biden as the
“migrant President.”  Does the White House take that as a compliment?

MS. PSAKI:  The migrant — give me a little more context.

Q    Well, he said, “They see him as the migrant President and so many
feel — so many feel they’re going to reach the United States… We need to
work together to regulate the flow, because this business can’t be
tackled from one day to the next.”

MS. PSAKI:  Well, first, it’s — Mexico will have to be — is an important
partner in ensuring we’re addressing the flow of migrants from Central
America through Mexico and many to the border of the United States.  We
have conveyed privately and publicly, as well, that the majority of
people who come to our border will be turned away. 

We certainly also recognize that because the President and our
administration has made a decision that the way to humanely approach
immigration is to allow for — you know, for unaccompanied minors to come
and be treated with humanity and — and be in a safe place while we’re
considering — while we’re trying to get them into new home- — into homes
and sponsored homes, that — that some more may have come to our border. 

And there have been, of course, a large flow of children across the
border.  We recognize that, but that is — that — we made a policy
decision because we felt it was the humane approach.  But the facts are
the vast, vast majority of people who come to our border are turned
away, and the statistics bear that out.

Q    Okay.  And then, in terms of keeping COVID out of the country, does
the White House think that it’s a problem that travelers have to show a
negative COVID test — proof of a negative COVID test when they fly into
the U.S. from any foreign country, but travelers don’t need to show
anything like that when they just walk across the border, as long as
they don’t go to a port of entry?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think there’s been a lot of confusion about what’s
been happening at the border, as it relates to people who are coming
across and what happens when they come across.  And I know Governor
Abbott down in Texas has expressed some of his concerns, and many of
those have not been based in fact.

So let me go through a few of those, because I know we’re all interested
in facts around here.  One, Governor Abbott has referred to what’s
happening at the border as “open borders” — as us having an open borders
policy.  That is absolutely incorrect; the border is not open.  The vast
majority of individuals apprehended or encountered at the border
continue to be denied entry and are returned undo- — under Title 42, as
we’ve already mentioned.

Also, he has suggested that we are not vaccinating CBP officers.  Again,
we like to deal with facts around here.  There’s no higher priority than
the health and safety of our federal workforce.  And the Department of
Homeland Security and CBP has been clear that currently more than 64,000
frontline DHS employees, including members of U.S. Border Patrol, have
received a vaccination.  So that’s another — just — point — just to
provide full clarity. 

The other piece is the question about the testing of migrants at the
border — or testing of migrants as they are coming across.  And we have
— DHS and FEMA have stepped in and worked with local mayors, NGOs, and
public health officials in Texas to implement a system to provide
COVID-19 testing and, as needed, isolation and quarantine for families
released from Border Patrol facilities.  Their proposal and agreement
would cover 100 percent of the expense of the testing, isolation, and
quarantine, but Governor Abbott has decided to reject that.

So, there are a number — there’s a lot of confusion about these issues,
and I just wanted to provide a little point of clarity here.

Q    But not asking about Governor Abbott; asking about President Biden
in charge of the federal government: Why are the feds relying on NGOs to
administer these tests?  We’ve talked to people down at the border who
say that migrants are only tested if they show symptoms.  That seems
like a loophole. 

MS. PSAKI:  That’s not an accurate depiction.  There is — there’s an
important role that NGOs, that local mayors, that local officials play
in working together.  And this is a proposal that was worked with DHS,
with FEMA, and others to help address and ensure that people are
tested.  And Governor Abbott — I raise that simply because he had raised
a concern about that, and I wanted to be clear that we’ve put forward a
proposal. 

So I think the question is: Why is he standing in the way of local
communities getting the funding and support they need to help with
testing, isolation, and quarantining efforts?

Q    But again, just a question about Biden-administration policy. 

MS. PSAKI:  Mm-hmm.

Q    COVID is COVID.  COVID at the Dulles Airport customs is the same as
COVID in a border town.  So I’m curious why it is that it’s enforced for
people flying in from other countries, but it is not a requirement by
the federal government to test — or to prove a negative test anywhere
along the border except at a port of entry.

MS. PSAKI:  Well, again, I can just describe to you what our policies
are.  If there’s more to convey to you, I’m happy to do that.

Q    And then, just one quick one on green jobs.  You guys have talked a
lot about tackling the climate crisis while creating good-paying jobs. 
Now the president of the Texas AFL-CIO has come out to say, “Someone
working in a refinery leaving to go install solar panels, they’re
probably going to take a 75 percent cut in pay.”  Is that something the
administration is aware of?

MS. PSAKI:  I’m not sure which jobs are being compared there.  Here —
here’s what I can convey to you: The President is committed, during his
presidency, to invest in — work with labor unions, with climate
activists, with a range of — with the industry to invest in good-paying,
clean energy jobs. 

And he believes that unions have an incredibly important role to play in
ensuring that those are high-paying jobs; that those treat the people
who are in them with the respect and value that they deserve through
collective bargaining rights and a range of the benefits of union
organizing, being a part of a union.

Obviously, that requires additional work and investment by the federal
government, working with Congress, to invest in what we see as
industries of the future.  Oil and gas jobs are not going away.  There
are many industries that are, of course, continuing to function.

The outgoing administration flooded the oil markets with cheap federal
leases.  This will not affect oil and gas production or jobs for years
to come. 

But what our objective is, is to invest in what we see as the industries
of the future, where we feel is where the jobs are going to be moving
forward.  And the President looks forward to continuing — delivering on
his commitment to doing exactly that.

Q    High-paying, good-paying — but equal-paying?

MS. PSAKI:  High-paying, good-paying jobs.  I think we’re comparing —

Q    Equal to what they’re —

MS. PSAKI:  — a little bit of — I’m not sure what specific jobs you’re
comparing.  What I’m conveying is the commitment to ensuring that jobs
in the clean energy industry will be high-paying union jobs.  That’s
what the President’s objective and commitment is to.

Go ahead, Kaitlan.

Q    The White House has said that President Biden wants to look ahead
to a return to normal in his speech tonight.  But how does he do that
while also striking the balance that 1,500 Americans, on average, are
still dying from coronavirus every single day?

MS. PSAKI:  You’re absolutely right, Kaitlan, that his objective is to
strike exactly that balance.  And this is one of the reasons that he has
been line — line editing this speech for the last week plus — to ensure
that he is conveying — that he is leveling with the American people;
that he is delivering on his commitment to being truthful about the
challenges that we continue to face, what is going to be required of the
American public to get to a return to normalcy, as you conveyed.  But he
also wants to provide a sense of hope and what’s possible if we abide by
the guidelines; if when you have access to a vaccine, you get the
vaccine — what people can look forward to. 

And — so he is — that is exactly the balance that he is hoping to strike
tonight.

Q    So should we expect like concrete steps and policy changes in this
speech tonight?

MS. PSAKI:  I think you can expect — you know, this is his first
opportunity — primetime, of course — to really speak directly to the
public.  You — we all have a conversation about a lot of these issues
every single day. 

Most — millions of Americans out there are living their lives — some of
them, you know, dealing with their kids in school, getting their jobs
done, et cetera.  And this will be an opportunity for many people to
really tune in and hear from him on his plan, on what his team has done
to date, what steps they’ve taken — an update since he took office, but
also concrete steps he wants to take moving forward.

There will be some news in the speech, but it is really about laying out
clearly for the — for the American public what steps he’s taken, what
his team will do, and what is expected of them as well.

Q    And since he’s just signed this bill, has he decided who is going
to oversee the implementation of it? 

And then, on the ceremony tomorrow: You have some Republican senators
who did not vote for this bill now touting parts of it.  What is
President Biden’s response to those Republicans like Senator Wicker?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, we invite them to work with us on the agenda moving
forward.  Because clearly, the bill that the President just signed into
law is something that the American people are excited about, that people
will benefit from as soon as this weekend, as we conveyed.  And we are
hopeful that as the President talks about his Build Back Better agenda,
has more meetings with members of Congress, we’ll have more people on
board from both sides of the aisle.

Q    And regarding who’s overseeing?

MS. PSAKI:  Oh, you know, we are — as I mentioned yesterday, the
President absolutely is committed to having a person who ru- — is
running point on it.  I don’t have any personnel announcements today.

Q    And one last question on the border.  The administration has
refused to call it a “crisis,” instead referring to it as a “challenge”
and saying what you call it doesn’t make a difference on how you’re
responding to it. 

But now, today, there are over 3,700 children — unaccompanied migrant
children in Border Patrol custody.  They’re spending, on average, over
100 hours — four days — in these facilities that are jail-like
facilities not meant for children.  So how can you say that’s not a
crisis?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think what Ambassador Jacobson and Secretary
Mayorkas were conveying, and what I’ve conveyed is: It doesn’t matter
what you call it.  It is an enormous challenge.  It is something that is
front and center for the President. 

As we — I noted yesterday, he had what is a regular meeting, but he had
a briefing yesterday on the trip to the border.  And there are a number
of — while there are no final policy decisions, there are a variety of
actions under consideration, including identifying and assessing other
licensed facilities that can help add safe capacity for these children;
relaunching, as we talked about over the last couple of days, the
Central American Minors program; accelerating the unification of
children with vetted families — family and sponsors; steps like
embedding HHS and ORR in the earlier parts of the process.

So, you know, the President is very focused and very in the weeds on the
operational details here and on taking and pushing his team to take
every step that can be taken to address exactly what you noted, Kaitlan,
which is the fact that children should not — these Border Patrol
facilities are not made for children; that we should — we are focused on
expediting the time they spend there; that these HHS shelters are not
meant for permanently — for permanent living — for anyone permanently
living there; that we want to expedite the timeline between when kids
cross the border and when they are getting to sponsor homes.

So our focus here is on getting to the root of the issues and taking
actions.  And we don’t feel the need to, you know, play games with what
it’s called.

Q    But aren’t those the steps that you would take if it was a crisis
that you had on your hands?

MS. PSAKI:  These are the policies we’re taking to address what we feel
is a vital human challenge at the border.  But what our responsibility
here is to do is to project and convey what policies we’re taking, what
the President’s commitment is.  That’s exactly what we’re doing, and we
don’t see the need to put new labels. 

Go ahead.

Q    Jen, thank you.  No Republicans voted for the COVID relief
package.  And they argue that this is the sixth package, and it adds to
a deficit that’s already a trillion dollars this year alone.  What do
you say to that criticism that, ultimately, this type of a sweeping
piece of legislation will be a drag on the economy down the line?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would say to them we’re in the midst of twin crises,
from the pandemic to an economic downturn that is impacting tens of
millions of people in this country.  People are struggling to make ends
meet.  They are worried about whether their grandparents, their cousins,
their friends are able to get a vaccine.  And they are suffering because
they’re worried about the mental health of their kids who aren’t back in
school yet.

And the President’s focus is on addressing those crises.  And I would
point a ques- — send a question back to many of these Republicans as to
why the deficit spending wasn’t as concerning when they were giving tax
cuts to the highest income, but now it’s concerning when we’re giving
direct checks and relief to the American people. 

Q    When you look forward at the rest of the agenda that President
Biden has laid out, how do you get even moderate Democrats on board with
another big piece of legislation — for example, his climate plan that
has a price tag of $2 trillion?

MS. PSAKI: There’s no price tag on a plan that doesn’t exist yet.  So
they’re —

Q    That’s what he laid out during his campaign.

MS. PSAKI:  Well, sure, but he also laid out many components of his
Build Back Better agenda during his campaign and we don’t — we haven’t
made a final decision yet as to what the format, the size, what the next
proposal will be.  It’s not even something that has been brought to him
for a decision quite yet.  Obviously, he’s had a lot of discussions and
meetings to hear from Republicans and Democrats, but we’re just not at
that point in the process yet. 

Q    And I know you’re not going to weigh in on the specifics of what
he’s going to tackle next, but given that this was not a bipartisan
piece of legislation and given that the President said that unity was
one of the key things he wanted to try to accomplish, is he going to try
to move forward on a piece of legislation where he thinks he can get
bipartisan support?  In other words, how is that going to factor into
his decision-making process?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, the President would, of course, love to have
bipartisan support, and there are areas of policymaking that he has
talked about quite a bit — as you noted, some of them on the campaign
trail, including infrastructure.  Modernizing our immigration system has
actually historically been a bipartisan policy-making issue.  He had a
meeting on cancer and addressing cancer and tackling cancer, of course. 

There are a lot of issues that he feels there’s opportunity to work
together on.  And his open — his door — the door to the Oval Office
remains open to bipartisanship, to finding ways to certainly work
together. 

Q    If I can try one more time on the issue at the border.  Just to
follow up on the comments of the Mexican President, who said that the
surge in unaccompanied migrants is because they see the President as the
“migrant President”: What does that say about how the President is
handling this situation?

MS. PSAKI:  Look, I think the President has been clear, as has every
member of our administration — you had Ambassador Jacobson doing this
the other day — that the border is not open.  Now is not the time to
come.  We turn away the vast majority of people who come to the border —
the vast, vast majority.  These numbers are put out by CBP and the
Department of Homeland Security, and people can see those numbers. 

We stand by our decision and our policy as an administration not to send
unaccompanied minors back on the treacherous journey.  So, you know,
that is our policy because we feel it’s humane and it’s moral, and we
think the world sees it that way as well. 

Q    Does the message need to be even clearer though?  Yesterday,
Ambassador Jacobson acknowledged that, yes — she said in her own words —
you’re “trying to walk and chew gum at the same time.”

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah — 

Q    Does there need to be a more streamlined message in order to
prevent this surge?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, she also talked about, Kristen — which is true — in
the region, we’re — we’re working against the efforts of smugglers and
others who are conveying a different message. 

One of the steps we’re taking, that I touched on a little bit earlier,
is also thinking of rebuilding or going back to some of the policies
that were in place previously, where children could apply for the
Central American Minors program, which was ended in 2017.  We estimate
there’s about 3,000 kids who might be eligible, who could apply.  And
they could apply from the region, which would mean they wouldn’t make
the treacherous journey.  They wouldn’t be at the border working through
Border Patrol. 

And so we’re looking for ways to reduce the number of kids who are
taking this treacherous journey, and then we’re also looking for ways to
expedite when kids are connected to family members; to, you know, safe
sponsor homes.  And we’re looking for ways to expedite getting them from
the Border Patrol facilities into the shelters as well. 

So there’s our — there’s numbers — numbers challenges here, and we’re
working through a lot of the operational details and specifics.

But we stand by, you know, the — what we feel is a more humane approach
to what is happening at the border.  And we are looking for ways,
operationally, to make it more efficient to move kids through the system
more quickly. 

And ultimately, when they get to the point where we’re — they’re with
sponsor homes, the — many of them will not be able to stay — most of
them.  They have to apply, and they’re — they have to go through the
process.  But we still are working for ways to expedite the system in
the meantime. 

Go ahead. 

Q    One follow-up on Jeff’s question on the discussions with the EU.

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.

Q    On the — well, I don’t know if it’s necessarily an export ban, but
the EU is saying the U.S. request was denied to export vaccines.  But
specifically on the AstraZeneca one, that’s not yet authorized in the
U.S. and the U.S. hasn’t sought authorization.  So why are you guys
sitting on these doses that could be used in the EU now, because it’s
already authorized there, but not here? 

MS. PSAKI:  Well, we don’t — we’re not sitting — I’m not sure which
doses you’re talking about that we’re sitting on.

Q    There’s a report out of — out of Europe that the U.S. told the
European Union that they cannot expect any AstraZeneca shipments anytime
soon.

MS. PSAKI:  Well, we don’t — we don’t own purchases — we didn’t purchase
AstraZeneca supplies.  I mean, so, the — there’s no export
prohibitions.  And all vaccine manufacturers in the United States are
free to export their products while also fulfilling the terms of their
contracts with the U.S. government.

Q    So is — in any of these government contracts with the individual
companies, are there specific export prohibitions — if it’s not an
export ban overall — in the contracts that the U.S. government has with
these companies?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, our — but you’re talking about whether we’re going to
give our supply to other countries.  Right?  Or are you talking about
whether these countries — or whether these manufacturers are going to
sell doses to other countries?

Q    Correct. 

MS. PSAKI:  The second?

Q    Whether the — sorry, say that again. 

MS. PSAKI:  So, I’m just trying to understand.  So, are you talking
about whether these companies are allowed to sell doses of their drug —
of their —

Q    Well, I’m talking about how it’s almost like a triangle — right? —
because these companies have contracts with the U.S. government that
say, “You have to fulfill this contract with us.”

MS. PSAKI:  Right.

Q    And so, is any of that prohibiting, then, exports of any of the
doses produced here to the European Union?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, as I just conveyed, there’s no — these are not export
prohibitions.  Vaccine manufacturers in the United States are free to
export their products while also fulfilling the terms of our contracts. 
There are — there are supply that they are producing for the United
States, but they can also work with other countries and —

Q    Sorry, now I think I —

MS. PSAKI:  Okay.

Q    — now we’re on the same level.

MS. PSAKI:  Okay.

Q    So, the contracts that you have with these companies, are there any
specific — is there a specific provision in those contracts that would
say, “You cannot export until you fulfill our contractual obligation
with the U.S. government”?

MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have any more details of the contracts, but
obviously these companies can work with other countries on selling their
products.  Manufacturers can work with them to — with these countries
directly. 

We have conveyed privately what we’ve conveyed publicly, which is: Our
focus is on ensuring the American people are receiving the vaccine, and
that we are vaccinating the American public.  That’s our first
priority.  But we are also engaging with and working with the global
community to figure out how we can get the global pandemic under control
together, whether that’s through financial contributions or through, you
know, navigating with them how we can work together to address it.

But we’ll continue to evaluate as more vaccines become available in the
United States.  AstraZeneca isn’t even approved at this point. 

Q    Yeah, one other topic — completely different.  You just said,
again, the President hasn’t yet made a decision on the next legislative
package or what it will be and —

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.

Q    — when it will be unveiled.  There’s a seems to be a little bit of
momentum, led by Senate Majority Leader Schumer, on a package that is
like a broad, sort of, China — countering-China package.  Is the White
House coordinating with the Senate Democrats on this?  Are you in touch
with them?  And is the President sort of actively going to engage with
this effort —

MS. PSAKI:  With the — with the proposal by Senator Schumer?

Q    Correct.  He — there was —

MS. PSAKI:  I am certain if Senator Schumer —

Q    — a report yesterday —

MS. PSAKI:  — wants to discuss it with him, he’s happy to discuss it
with the sen- — with Senator Schumer — with Leader Schumer.  But I would
expect the President’s agenda, moving forward, will reflect the Build
Back Better agenda that he talked about on the campaign trail.  But the
order, the size, the timeline has not yet been determined. 

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Jen.  I have a couple of foreign policy questions —

MS. PSAKI:  Okay.

Q    — specifically on Africa.  But I just want to pick up something
that you discussed with — earlier about the Central American Minors
program. 

MS. PSAKI:  Sure. 

Q    I just want to make sure that I understand you correctly, that you
were presenting that as sort of like an immediate solution to what’s
happening at the border by saying that this will take about 3,000 kids. 
Well, what I don’t understand is that, first of all, what’s going to be
processed are the kids who were already in the process — and it was
stopped in 2017 — and then the State Department will continue to process
new applications.  So that process, in itself, takes months, no?

MS. PSAKI:  The — they will be prioritized.  The process was stopped, as
you noted, in 2017, and the kids who were eligible then will be
prioritized. 

Q    So it’s not an immediate solution to what’s happening on the
border?

MS. PSAKI:  I don’t think I said that.  I don’t have a timeline for you,
but it is what — well, I actually — if you were listening earlier, I
gave a number of steps, actually.  That’s one of the steps. 

The other steps address some of the things that you just raised,
including the fact that we are working to find ways to accelerate the
unification of children with vetted families and sponsors, embedding ORR
and HHS in earlier parts of the process.  We’re identifying and
assessing other licensed facilities. 

So this isn’t a — this isn’t a challenge that’s going to be addressed
through one step, but certainly, the Central American Minors program is
a way.  And the reason I talked about it is because it’s a way to help
ensure that the application process for these kids happens while — not
while they’re sitting in shelters in the United States or even with
sponsor families, but when they are still in their home countries.  And
they will know before they make the journey that they are able to come
and stay in this country.  And that’s a pretty pivotal step to take. 

Q    Thank you for clarifying that.  Now, on the issue of Africa, does
the President share the assessment of Secretary Blinken that what’s
happening on the Western Tigray Region of Ethiopia is “ethnic
cleansing”?  Does the President have any specific view on the particular
role of Prime Minister Abiy in this conflict?  And is the U.S.
considering any kind of action, beyond urging the Ethiopian government
to stop sending their forces? 

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah, I got an update on this from my team earlier, so let
me just see what I have here to update you on. 

So, the administration has repeatedly engaged the Ethiopian government
on the importance of ending the violence and sharing unhindered
humanitarian access and allowing a full independent international
investigation into all reports of human rights abuses. 

As you noted, Secretary of State Blinken has spoken to the Ethiopian
Prime Minister twice to emphasize — emphasize the United States’ concern
about the humanitarian and human rights crisis we’re seeing.  During his
testimony yesterday, he reiterated the situation is unacceptable and has
to change and that we’re calling on the Ethiopian government to follow
through on its commitments that it’s made.  And also at the U.N.
Security Council, Ambassador Linda Thomas-Greenfield has reaffirmed U.S.
commitment to working bilaterally and multilaterally to help secure an
end to the violence.

So, the President is deeply concerned, highly engaged on this issue.  He
recognizes that we have very active ongoing efforts by our diplomats to
try to move this forward to a better place, including getting
humanitarian aid workers in with full access.  And, of course, he
remains in touch and working closely with his Secretary of State.

Q    Another topic, still on the continent.

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.

Q    On the issue — still on Ethiopia, actually — the Trump
administration was very much engaged in mediating the conflict between
Ethiopia, Egypt, and Sudan on the issue of the Nile dam.  Is the Biden
administration willing to continue mediation process, as has been
requested by Ethiopia — sorry, by Sudan and Egypt?

MS. PSAKI:  I would send you to the State Department.  They’d be more
directly involved at this stage.

Q    One more.  One more Africa question.

MS. PSAKI:  Okay.

Q    Western Sahara — also, President Trump, as you know, recognized
sovereignty — Morocco’s sovereignty of the Western Sahara region.  Now
Spain is asking for a U.N. resolution or U.N.-brokered solutions.  Spain
is a former col- — colonizer of Western Sahara, asking for a
U.N.-brokered solution on this issue.  Has the administration completed
its review on this particular Trump deal?  Because it does, you know,
deal with the overall Abraham Accords policy.  And what is your position
on it?

MS. PSAKI:  As you know, we are reviewing all of the — many Trump
positions, including the Abraham Accords.  But I don’t have an update
today for you on it.

Go ahead.

Q    Yeah.  I just wanted to go back to the border.

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.

Q    My colleagues reported yesterday that the administration is looking
at a NASA facility in California to house some of these unaccompanied
children.  Can you talk a little bit about the plan to identify and find
space for them? What — what sort of facilities are you looking at?

MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have a list of facilities, but I will convey that we
are — or reiterate that part of our effort and our focus and what we’re
prioritizing is identifying and assessing licensed facilities that can
help add safe capacity for these children. 

And even with the update in CDC guidelines that we’ve talked about a
little bit this week that allows for greater capacity safely at these
facilities, we still want to ensure that we have facilities that are
safe, licensed, and prepared to house children so that we can move them
quickly from the Border Patrol — the Border Patrol locations.

But I don’t have anything — we’re looking at a range of sites — our team
is — and I’m sure some will be hopefully identified soon, but I don’t
have anything to preview for you beyond that.

Q    Okay.  And then on the trip with princ- — with all of the
principals, kind of, crisscrossing the country next week —

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.

Q    — it’s an interesting list of states.  I think you said “purple,”
at least.  I’m wondering, even though that this relief package has no
support here, what have you been hearing — or what do you expect to hear
from Republicans in these states?  Do you expect to be received by them
at all?  Have

you heard much — like have you —

MS. PSAKI:  Republicans, like local elected or —

Q    Yeah.  Mm-hmm.

MS. PSAKI:  Look, I think what we saw, even during the effort to pass
the American Rescue Plan, is that there are 400 governors and mayors
across the country — many of them Republican.  We had a Republican mayor
come here and talk to you all about how vital and important this was to
his community. 

And so we certainly anticipate that many of the local elected officials
who supported the passage, who are seeing, you know, funding coming into
their states to help ensure that cops and firefighters keep their jobs;
seeing funding that’s going to come in and help reopen schools; seeing
people in their communities get checks as early as this weekend — that
they will be open, many of them, to engaging with the President, the
Vice President, the First Lady, the Second Gentleman, where there’s an
opportunity to talk about the benefits and communicate to their
communities about how people can access these benefits.

And that’s a big part of the — this blitz around the country is ensuring
that the American people have that understanding and that’s what our —
all of our principals will be conveying.

Q    Could I ask another quick one?

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.

Q    I’m just curious.  I know the President has speechwriters, but were
you around him when he was working on this speech?  Like, who were the
advisors around him that have weighed in and pitched in ideas and helped
him edit?

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  Look, I think — you know, the President has been
doing this a while and certainly he had a good sense of what he wanted
to convey.  And he is someone who is a — you know, a — an anti- — an
anti-acronyms advocate, so he wants to explain things with clarity and
with directness to the American people. 

And I will tell you that, when he goes through speeches like this, he
asks questions that I can imagine friends of mine and family members of
mine might ask.  “What do you mean by that?”  “And when you say that,
how will I get access to that?”  And that’s, when he reads through the
speech, what he’s looking to provide clarity on. 

And he fully recognizes that — that, you know, speaking during a
primetime address is a moment where you have to, you know, tell a story
about — and recognize the — the great sacrifices the American people
have been through, and speak with truth and with directness about what
is still required, but also provide some hope on what’s ahead. 

Because it — we are, as Kaitlan alluded to earlier, there is still — we
are still in the middle of a war with the pandemic, and he will
certainly be clear about that.  But he also wants to give people a sense
of what’s possible and what’s ahead, and what we can look ahead to once
more and more people in the country are vaccinated.

Go ahead.

Q    So the President has visited Wisconsin and Michigan.  He’s going to
visit Pennsylvania and Georgia.  Has there been a special emphasis on
him visiting presidential battleground states in the early days of his
presidency?

MS. PSAKI:  No.  He did win a lot of states, so I will say that.  He —
you will see him visit red states, states he did not win; of course,
blue states, and states he did not visit during the campaign, as well. 
So that is certainly part of his desire and interest and commitment, and
something we’ve also talked about quite a bit.  Because he is committed
to governing for all of the American people, not just people in blue
states or swing states or purple states or whatever color you want to
call them, and that is something he has a great interest in doing. 

And, you know, even when he was — he also visited Texas, which is
certainly not — not yet a blue state.  But — but when he was there, he
traveled around the state with Governor Abbott because his view is that
when we’re addressing crises, whether it’s a weather crisis, or COVID,
or the economic downturn, that, you know, he’s going to govern for all —
for all Americans and work with people of both parties.

Q    If I can ask just an unrelated question.  So, the relief bill
includes subsidies for the healthcare exchanges and COBRA coverage.  The
President, during the campaign, talked about also implementing a
universal public option, lowering the Medicare age to 60.  Does he still
plan to pursue those policy initiatives, and when can we expect to hear
more on that from him?

MS. PSAKI:  Yes.  I mean, we’re only on day 50.  We’ve got a lot more
time to go here.  Buckle up. 

Yes, he is — of course, this was his number one priority was getting
this American Rescue Plan passed.  Today is a very big day here in the
White House — significant moment for the American people, of course. 
But he remains committed to and interested in pushing forward with the
rest of his agenda and the commitments he made when he ran for President
over the course of the last two years.

Go ahead.

Q    Thank you.  Last June, then-candidate Biden said, “looking ahead in
the first 100 days of my presidency, I’ve committed to creating a
national police oversight commission.” Is that something that he still
intends to establish within the first 100 days?

MS. PSAKI:  He does.  We have 50 days left.  Look at all we’ve
accomplished in 50 days.  We have much more to — much more to happen in
the next 50.

Q    Is there a timeline for when he will be —

MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have a timeline for you.  You know, this, of course
— because when he came in, he knew that taking steps to get — you know,
addressing the pandemic — under control — to get relief out to the
American people had to be what he spent his time doing.  But, of course,
there’s a lot he wants to do to address the “four crises,” as he’s
defined them, that are facing the country, and racial inequality is
certainly one of them.  He talked about, as you mentioned, the police
commission when he was running, and certainly there’s a lot more that he
would like to get done from his agenda.

Q    Can I just ask one more question about the American Rescue Plan?

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.

Q    I’m following up on Kaitlan’s question.  You said that some of the
money is starting to go out as soon as this weekend.

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.

Q    So why has the White House not yet announced the person overseeing
the implementation of the bill, and when can we expect that
announcement?  And then, once that person is appointed, how will that
person be working with the various inspectors general at the agencies
and the Pandemic Response Accountability Committee to ensure adequate
oversight? 

MS. PSAKI:  Well, it doesn’t — you know, the President believes it’s a
model, looking back at the Recovery Act, where having a person who can
pull all the levers of government and engage with mayors and, you know,
le- — city leaders and community leaders is an effective means of
ensuring that implementation is efficient moving forward. 

I only told you about the one person yesterday who’s going to oversee
this.  So, while I don’t have personnel announcements for you today,
it’s also clear that that is not delaying our implementation.  I mean,
the Treasury Department, the IRS will still be the ones who are
implementing the direct checks or the direct deposits, which is what the
majority of people will get.  And, of course, the Department of
Education will still be the ones overseeing and working with school
districts in order to get funding out to reopen schools. 

None of that is changing.  We’re just talking about a person to be the
coordinator, but it doesn’t delay the implementation of the bill.  And,
of course, it’s a priority to him and why he wants to have somebody in
that position.

Q    Will that person be working with the inspectors general in the
various agencies, though, to make sure that the money is going out as
smoothly as possible and that there’s no — I mean, I know that a lot of
watchdog groups raised —

MS. PSAKI: Yeah.

Q    — raised issues with how the money was dispersed under agencies in
the Trump administration.  So will the person overseeing implementation
be looking at that to make sure that that (inaudible)?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, reducing waste, fraud, and abuse, and preventing it is
certainly a priority for the President.  He’s already taken steps to
address that in this — in the last 50 days.  And certainly, when he was
overseeing the Recovery Act, that was a priority for him.  So I’m
certain that, as we look to implementation, that will continue to be a
focus of his as well.

Go ahead, in the back.

Q    Yeah.  A question about the first meeting today of the U.S.-Israel
Strategic Group.  How important is it to President Biden that the — sort
of the U.S. strategy on Iran be coordinated with Israel, given the fact
that the Israeli leader, Benjamin Netanyahu, doesn’t like the deal, has
been very vocal about it?

MS. PSAKI:  We feel that — you noticed — you noted a strategy — or a
meeting today, I should say — that many here may not be aware of.  I can
share more details on that. 

But it’s vital to the President and to the administration that as we are
looking ahead to approaching diplomacy and moving toward, you know, a
diplomatic track to preventing Iran from acquiring a nuclear weapon,
that Israel is a — will be a continued partner, will be regularly
briefed.  And that was true when the JCPOA was being negotiated and put
into place to begin with, and certainly would be the case if this
diplomatic track moves forward.

Q    So are you trying to, kind of, avoid some of the public acrimony
that was evidenced when Joe Biden was Vice President?  It’s very clear
that Benjamin Netanyahu doesn’t like this deal.

MS. PSAKI:  Well, it was clear for some time.  And then once it was in
place, I think, many countries in the region were happy to have the
direct visibility into what Iran was doing — to have inspectors on the
ground. 

And certainly, we’re very familiar with the opposition as the bill is
being negotiated, and we can — will continue to work with and directly
engage with Israel if this — if there’s a diplomatic path forward. 

And even without that, they’re an important partner — Israel is.  But I
would say they’re — it quieted a bit once the — once there was a
recognition of the benefit of visibility on the ground.  And we don’t
have that now, and we haven’t had it since the Trump administration
pulled out of the deal.

Q    Just to follow up, though: How concerned is it — is President Biden
of statements coming out of Israel — for example, from the head of the
IDF who said military option is still on the table, but he thinks it’s a
bad idea to get back to this deal?  I mean, is the United States worried
that the relationship with Israel could draw the United States into some
sort of armed conflict with Iran?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, we’ve been clear that we feel the best path forward is
a diplomatic path.  And that’s why we are working with our European
partners to see what is possible along that front. 

We also believe that it’s an opportunity to expand on the JCPOA and work
to address additional concerns we have in the region.  But, of course,
we’re not — we’re very familiar with the concerns Israel has expressed,
and that’s one of the reasons we engaged with them so closely around
this and many other issues.

Q    And just very quickly — the last question: Obviously, there are
imminent elections in Israel as well as Iran.  Is the, sort of, strategy
right now to, kind of, wait until the outcome of those elections and
know who you’re dealing with moving forward?

MS. PSAKI:  No, I would say the strategy is to work in close
coordination with our European partners, who will continue to be key
partners as part of the P5+1, as is Russia and China, should there be a
diplomatic — and we’re hopeful there’s a diplomatic path forward. 

And certainly we are — you know, we view this as part of the — a
diplomatic process: waiting to see what the back-and-forth about the
engagement will be.  But we’re not looking to delay the diplomatic
process.  We are, you know, looking to hear back from the Iranians and
work closely with our Europeans on the process.

Go ahead.

Q    Congressman John Yarmuth seemed to think the other day that the
President’s budget might not be coming until May.  When does the
President plan to release his 2022 budget blueprint?  And when he does,
will he submit a plan that balances in a 10-year window?

MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have any predictions for you on the timeline of the
budget.  As we talked about a bit during the transition, because of some
of the intransigence of political appointees during the transition
period, we already anticipated it would be delayed back in December and
January. 

Obviously, the fact that we don’t have a confirmed OMB Director in place
doesn’t help expedite that timeline.  But — so we knew it would be
delayed, but I don’t have a specific timeline for you or a frame of what
it will look like.

Q    And on — does the President support congressional Democrats’ push
to restore earmarking?  Is that a way to sort of foster bipartisanship
after this $1.9 trillion package that didn’t get any Republican support?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, we don’t have a package yet that we’re talking about,
that we are working through with Congress.  Obviously, the President
spent 36 years in the Senate, and he is quite familiar with the role of
earmarks.  But I don’t — when we have a package to announce and we’re
talking about the legislative strategy, we can probably talk about it
more.

Q    Is that — I mean — because Democrats are making the case that this
will — you know, it’s a way to get Republicans to support spending
bills, things along those lines.  Is that the White House’s view?  Is
earmarking a potential path to sort of break some of this gridlock?

MS. PSAKI:  We just don’t have a legislative package we’re even talking
about here.  So when we do, we can have a discussion about what the
legislative strategy is, but we’re not at that point.  We just signed
into law — the President just signed into law today a $1.9 trillion
package that he is looking forward to implementing.  That’s our focus. 

And in the coming weeks, we’ll have more to say what’s next, and then we
can have a discussion about how we’re going to get that package through.

Q    And on the four- —

MS. PSAKI:  Oh, go ahead.

Q    I’m so sorry.  One more.

MS. PSAKI:  Go ahead.  You’re fine. Go ahead.

Q    On the $1,400 checks: Consumer advocates are raising concerns that
private debt collectors might be able to intercept part of it, because,
apparently, language protected that in the last round of $600 checks,
but because of the budget reconciliation process, senators had cut that
out.  Will the President support standalone legislation?  I think
Senator Wyden says he’s going to be working on that. 

And how does the President expect to get standalone legislation to take
care of that issue?  And how does the President expect to get bipartisan
support for, sort of, these provisions — technical corrections like
these that pop up, you know, on every major bill like this?

MS. PSAKI:  I’m not sure if there are technical corrections needed; I’d
have to talk to the Department of Treasury about that.  I mean, in terms
of the checks, 90 percent of them, about, will go via direct deposit to
people’s bank accounts that they have because of people paying taxes.

If there are other additional components that require that, I’m happy to
have that discussion with them and see if they think there’s technical
changes needed.  And if those technical changes require Congress, which
I’m not — I’m not sure they would or wouldn’t at this point.

Go ahead, in the back.

Q    Thank you.  I have a couple of questions.  Last week, President
Biden, in his virtual interaction with NASA scientist Dr. Mohan, said
that Indian — people of Indian descent “are taking over the country.” 
Can you clarify that — what he meant by that?  Because there have been
some criticism by his opponents on his remarks.

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would first say that, the President was just
recognizing and honoring and valuing — or this was his intention — the
incredible contribution of Indian Americans to science.  He was speaking
to a — an Indian American woman who is, of course, a scientist and an
important part of the NASA team.  And he also was, of course,
recognizing the incredible contribution of his own Vice President. 

And he just believes that — you know, it was a reflection of his belief
that Indian Americans could have a — make a great contribution to the
fabric of society, whether it’s science or education or the government,
and that was what he was trying to convey.

Q    And a number of Indian Americans who came to this country as legal
immigrants and want to make this as a home, they feel that this
administration is not much focused on resolving the issues related to
legal immigrants; rather, they are more focused on illegal immigrants. 
What do you have to say on that?

MS. PSAKI:  I would say they — we should — you should write an article
about how the President’s immigration bill proposes a number of fixes or
changes in the legal and legislative system to ensure that those issues
are addressed, and we’re eager to move that forward with members of both
parties.

Q    I have, on China, a question.

MS. PSAKI:  Okay. 

Q    Today is the 50th day, and tomorrow the President is addressing the
Quad leader summit.  And a few days later, the Secretary of State and
NSA are having their bilateral meetings in Anchorage, Alaska, on China. 
After 50 days, what are your major asks from China?  What do you want
China to do so that you improve the relationship that the United States
has with them?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would expect, obviously, this — this meeting next
week, we felt it was important to have it on U.S. soil.  We certainly
anticipate that National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan and Secretary of
State Tony Blinken will be discussing both the challenges we’ve had in
not holding back on issues and concerns we have — we have with the
behavior of Chinese leadership, whether it’s on Taiwan, or recent, you
know, efforts to push back democracy in Hong Kong, or on concerns we
have about the economic relationships. 

So they will certainly raise those issues; and the lack of transparency,
as it relates to COVID; human rights abuses, as well.  But they’ll also
talk about areas of opportunity and ways we can work together. 

We certainly will not — they will not be holding back in the
conversation, but they wanted to — you know, it’s an important moment
next week to engage directly and in person.  And we’re — I know they’re
looking forward to it.  We’ll have a robust readout, I’m sure, when that
meeting concludes.

Q    And a foreign journalist colleague of mine (inaudible) has sent me
a question for you.  The International Olympics Committee today
announced that China will provide vaccination for athletes, teams, and
attendees of the Tokyo Olympic Games.  What is the response to — what is
the response to IOC’s announcement?  Does this — the administration
recommend the U.S. athletes and attendees get vaccination from the
Chinese?

MS. PSAKI:  I would have to — I would send you to the internat- — the
U.S. Olympic Committee.  We, of course, are working to ensure that the
American people are — have access to vaccines.  We’ll have enough to
vaccine — vaccinate, I should say, all American adults by the end of
May.  Certainly that includes Olympic athletes, but I would refer you to
them on their plans for vaccinating athletes.

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Jen.  A couple on topics we haven’t touched on yet.  But
Politico ran a poll yesterday — I’m not sure if you saw it — finding
that 53 percent of Americans think that there should be a ban on
transgender athletes competing in women’s sports.  Included in that were
40 percent of Democratic respondents, who agreed that there should be a
ban, and 49 percent of independents. 

Obviously, the President is committed to advancing LGBTQ rights.  But
looking at this through his call-for-unity lens, do you think these
opinions are coming more from a place of trying to protect women’s
rights or equality in athletics, or are these just flat-out bigoted
opinions that the President shouldn’t acknowledge at this point in time?

MS. PSAKI:  The opinions in the poll?

Q    Yeah —  

MS. PSAKI:  Well —

Q    — people who have voiced support for banning transgender athletes
from women’s sports. 

MS. PSAKI:  I did not conduct the poll, nor was a part of the polling
committee that had conversations with people.  What I can convey to you
is that the President believes, regardless of this poll in Politico —
did you say Politico, I guess?

Q    Politico and the Morning Consult.  Yeah.

MS. PSAKI:  I didn’t see the poll or the article, but —

Q    It was in “Playbook.” 

MS. PSAKI:  I didn’t read “Playbook.”  But I — but I — the President
believes that transgender rights are human rights, that kids should not
be discriminated against, and should be able to play sports.  And that
continues to be his belief and that hasn’t changed.  But I’m not going
to guess or attribute motive to the people who have responded to that
poll or any poll actually.

Q    And then on the House’s passage of these gun violence legislation
bills today: Has the — has the White House been actively courting
Republican Senators to vote yay for this?  Obviously, from a numbers
standpoint, it’s going to be a lot harder to pass there than in the
House. 

And if not, does the President believe it can pass the Senate — or those
two bills can pass the Senate in their current iterations?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, first, you know, the President is someone who is
personally committed to addressing gun violence and working to put in
place gun safety measures.  He has called on Congress to act.  He
supports Congress acting.  He is looking forward to working with them to
advance priorities, including repealing gun manufacturers’ liability
shields. 

Of course, these pieces of legislation were regarding background checks,
and he certainly supports actions by the House to pass those bills.  And
I expect he will look for opportunities to be engaged and advocate for
why these are not political issues; these are commonsense efforts to
keep our children safe, keep our country safe, and, you know, ensure
that we are, you know, reducing gun violence in the country.

Q    And then —

Q    Thanks, Jen.

Q    Just one follow-up on the Quad summit tomorrow.

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.

Q    Does the President plan on speaking with our allies about ways we
can force China to stop the genocide it’s committing against the Uyghur
Muslims in Xinjiang in that summit tomorrow?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I know that addressing the genocide against Uyghur
Muslims is something that will be a topic of discussion with the Chinese
directly next week.  But, certainly, this conversation tomorrow — and
we’re hoping — I’ve invited National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan to
come and give you a readout of that meeting.  I know there’s a lot of
interest in the Quad summit tomorrow.

But we expect the conversation to be about a range of global issues.  It
is not focused on China.  Of course, China is a topic on the minds of
many leaders in countries, but we expect they will talk about the
climate crisis, about economic cooperation, about addressing COVID, a
range of issues and discussions. 

And, you know, certainly the position of the United States is that what
is happening is genocide.  And we, you know, will look for opportunities
to work with other partners on putting additional pressure on the
Chinese.  But we will also raise it directly, and it will be a topic of
discussion next week. 

Thanks everyone.

Q    Thank you.  Thank you, Jen.

3:20 P.M. EST
