---
tags: press-briefings
date: '2021-03-10'
modified_time: 2021-03-10 14:39:16-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/03/10/press-briefing-by-white-house-covid-19-response-team-and-public-health-officials-13/
published_time: 2021-03-10 15:00:00-05:00
title: "Press Briefing by White\_House COVID-\u206019 Response Team and Public Health\_\
  Officials"
---
 
Via Teleconference

11:04 A.M. EST

ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Thank you for joining us.  Before I turn
to Dr. Walensky and Dr. Fauci, I wanted to give a quick update. 

Yesterday, Jeff Zients, our COVID Coordinator, announced yet another
supply increase.  Pfizer and Moderna’s vaccine supply will now increase
to more than 20 million doses going out to states, tribes, territories,
and pharmacies.  That’s double the number going out every week before we
came into office.  This presents an opportunity for everyone to increase
their vaccinations, even as that supply and supply of Johnson & Johnson
vaccine ramp up even further.  The country must quickly work through
this additional supply. 

Today, President Biden will direct Jeff and the Health and Human
Services team to procure an additional 100 million doses of the Johnson
& Johnson vaccine.  This order allows for the President to plan for the
future in the latter part of the year.  This is war time.  And as facts
still emerge, it gives us maximum flexibility for our upcoming needs.  

So to review some of our progress from the vaccination program over the
first 49 days: We’ve released vaccine supply.  The President has ordered
enough vaccine doses for every adult in the U.S.  We’ve more than
doubled the number of vaccines going to states.  We’ve improved the
efficiency of the vaccination process.  When we arrived, less than half
of vaccines distributed to states were administered; today that number
is approximately 75 percent. 

We worked with the vaccine manufacturers to speed up their delivery to
May 31st.  And as you’ll hear about later today, we led a historic
partnership between two rival drug companies to scale manufacturing and
speed delivery. 

We’ve surged the number of vaccinators.  The President has deployed
3,500 federal personnel, in addition to providing federal funding for
members of the National Guard, to serve as vaccinators with many more to
come.  We’ve signed an order to allow our nation’s doctors and nurses to
give shots.  We’ve mobilized more than 2,000 military men and women to
support community vaccination sites. 

We’ve also dramatically increased the number of places to get
vaccinated.  We’ve provided federal support for over 500 community
vaccination centers.  We’ve launched a program to directly send vaccines
to more than 9,000 local pharmacies.  We’ve opened or are ramping up 20
high-volume, federally run sites that will be able to deliver 70,000
shots a week in some of America’s most disadvantaged neighborhoods; 16
sites are operational now.  Those sites have already delivered more than
500,000 shots. 

We’re ramping up a program that directly sends vaccines to more than
1,300 community health centers to reach hard-hit communities.  We’re
launching mobile sites to help vaccinate the hardest-to-reach
communities. 

And this is leading to results for the American people, most
importantly.  More than 91 million Americans have received a shot: at
least one dose, 61 million Americans; fully vaccinated, 32 million
Americans. 

America leads the world in total vaccinations.  On June — January 20th,
there was a seven-day average of 890,000 shots per day.  And today,
we’re averaging above 2 million shots per day.  On Saturday, we set an
all-time, single-day record: nearly 3 million Americans vaccinated — a
pace seen nowhere else in the world. 

In terms of protecting the most vulnerable — our core duty as a nation —
when we came into office, 8 percent of people over 65 were vaccinated. 
Today, 60 percent are vaccinated.  And according to the CDC’s new
guidance, vaccinated parents can now visit and hug their grandchildren —
and, in most circumstances, without wearing a mask. 

This is an accomplishment every American going through the difficult
process of waiting for the vaccine can take pride in.  And as more
people get vaccinated, more people will become eligible.  Yesterday,
Alaska became the first state to make vaccines available to all people
over the age of 16. 

There are many steps left in the path, but we are making progress. 

With that, I will turn it over to Dr. Walensky. 

DR. WALENSKY:  Thank you, Andy.  It’s a pleasure to be back with you
today.  Let’s take a look at the current state of the pandemic. 

CDC’s most recent data indicate that the recent plateau of cases may be
again starting to trend downward, with a seven-day average now of 56,000
cases per day.  We also continue to see decreases in new hospital
admissions for the most recent week.  An average of 4,900 patients with
COVID-19 were admitted per day in the most recent week. 

And while we have seen deaths hovering around 2,000 deaths per day in
recent weeks, the latest seven-day average is now down to 1,600 deaths
per day.  Earlier this week, we saw the number of deaths per day drop
below 1,000 for the first time since November.  All of this is really
good news. 

And while these trends are starting to head in the right direction, the
number of cases, hospitalizations, and deaths still remain too high and
are somber reminders that we must remain vigilant as we work to scale up
our vaccination efforts across this country. 

We must continue to use proven prevention measures to slow the spread of
COVID-19.  They are getting us closer to the end of this pandemic.  As I
discussed on Monday, CDC released initial guidance on activities fully
vaccinated people can resume safely while limiting risks to themselves
and others.

To help this important information out to the medical community and to
the public, today the Journal of the American Medical Association
published a scientific commentary from CDC.  In the commentary, we again
summarize the new recommendations from CDC: that fully vaccinated people
can visit with other fully vaccinated people in small gatherings without
wearing masks or physical distancing; that fully vaccinated people can
also visit with unvaccinated people from one other household without
wearing masks or distancing, as long as no member of the unvaccinated
household is at high risk of severe illness from COVID-19; and that
fully vaccinated people do not need to quarantine or get tested
following contact with someone who has COVID-19, as long as the fully
vaccinated person is asymptomatic. 

We also reiterate that in other scenarios, including public settings and
travel, people who have been fully vaccinated should continue to wear
masks and practice safe public health prev- — precautions, just like
people who have not yet been vaccinated. 

In addition, the commentary includes information about the scientific
basis for CDC’s new recommendations that balance the risk of fully
vaccinated individuals with the risk of infection and spread among the
still 90 percent of the American public not yet protected by a COVID-19
vaccine. 

The commentary also describes the outstanding scientific questions we
are working to answer to inform future guidance and get people back to
their everyday activities. 

Key among them are questions about the risk of vaccinated people
transmiss- — transmitting the virus to others if they have a vaccine
breakthrough and become infected; how long protection from vaccines
lasts; and how well the vaccines work against the circulating virus
variants.

While we are starting to see emerging evidence that the vaccines remain
effective against circulating variants and that the risk of breakthrough
infections in vaccinated persons and spreading the virus to others is
low, we must be resolute in our efforts to fully answer these critical
questions.  When answered, they will inform the future guidance that
will enable us to safely resume activities, while also protecting others
who remain vulnerable to this disease.

We are working across the government and with many scientific partners
to answer these questions as quickly as we can.  And I’m committed to
updating our guidance as new scientific information becomes available
and, importantly, as more people get vaccinated. 

I want to close by reiterating that our actions this week represent a
first step, not our final destination.  We are at a critical point in
this pandemic and on the cusp of having enough vaccine to protect every
adult in the United States. 

We ask for your patience in practicing proven prevention measures for
just a little while longer.  We ask for your participation by rolling up
your sleeve when it is your turn to be vaccinated.  And we ask for your
leadership in helping others do both of the same. 

With the above actions — we are so very close — we can turn the tide on
this pandemic.  Thank you.  I look forward to your questions.  And I’ll
now turn things over to Dr. Fauci.

DR. FAUCI:   Thank you very much, Dr. Walensky.  What I’d like to do
over the next couple of minutes is talk a bit about what we refer to as
“special populations.”  So if I could have the first slide. 

Many of you are very familiar with this slide.  It is a slide of the
phased vaccine distribution that has been put out by the CDC.  If you
look at these — from the phase 1A, B, C; and 2 — what is not
specifically mentioned here are pregnant women and pediatric
individuals, namely people from age six months to 16 to 18.  Also, in
the third panel on phase 1C, we refer to as high-risk conditions.  So
I’m going to get a little bit more granular on that with you.

If I could have the next slide please.  First of all, let’s take a look
at what we mean by “special populations.”  First of all are pregnant
individuals.  There are about 3.7 million births in the United States in
2019.  Then there are adolescents and children — a very important topic
when we think in terms of schools and the protection of children.  There
are about 73 million individuals between the ages of birth and 18
years. 

And then, importantly, there are immunocompromised individuals — those
who have immunosuppressive medical conditions, either primary
immunodeficiencies or acquired immune deficiencies, such as HIV — or
individuals who are receiving immunosuppressive treatment or
chemotherapy.  That could be either due to an underlying neoplasm or,
maybe even more frequently, to individuals with one form or another of
an autoimmune disease requiring suppression of a hyperactive immune
system.  It’s estimated that about 3 percent of U.S. adults fall within
that category.  Next slide.

So what is some of the questions that we ask of these special
populations?  The obvious ones are: What is the safety and
immunogenicity profile of vaccines in these populations?  And as I
mentioned on a previous presentation, it is unlikely that we will
require a full efficacy study involving tens of thousands of individual
volunteers. 

What we almost certainly will do is determine safety and do
immunogenicity to determine if special populations — be they pregnant
women, be they pediatric cases — that these individuals make a
comparable immune response to that which we know, actually, is
associated with the high degree of protection that we’re seeing in our
vaccines. 

Next is: What is the duration of the immune response to vaccination in
certain special populations?  Take, for example, individuals who have
immunodepression either by a disease or iatrogenically by a drug.

We may show that the level of immune response is good, but that the
durability of that might be different because of the compromise of the
immune system in these individuals. 

And then, we want to know: What is the efficacy of vaccination on
reducing disease and transmission in certain special populations?  There
may be a difference between them and individuals in what we refer to as
the “normal adult population.”  Next slide.

So let’s take a quick look at the pregnant individuals.  The American
College of Obstetrics and Gynecology — ACOG — recommends that vaccines
of SARS-CoV-2 should not be withheld from pregnant individuals and that
pregnant individuals may choose to receive a COVID-19 vaccine, and they
should have a conversation with their clinicians.

As I mentioned on a previous briefing: Although they were not
specifically looking at pregnant women in the studies which led up to
the EUA, since the EUA, several thousands of pregnant individuals have
actually gotten vaccinated.  And the CDC has established a V-safe
pregnancy registry to follow the outcomes among vaccinated pregnant
individuals.  Specifically, in one case, Pfizer-BioNTech has launched a
randomized placebo-controlled study to do just what I said a moment ago:
to evaluate safety and immunogenicity in pregnant individuals.

Also, as I mentioned in a previous briefing when we discussed J&J, the
J&J adeno 26 vector has considerable experience with Ebola, in Africa,
in individuals who are pregnant and or lactating.

And on the final slide — excuse me, not yet final — the adolescents and
children.  The age range that is currently authorized for the SARS-CoV
vaccination, as you well know, is 18 and older from Moderna, 16 for
Pfizer, and 18 for J&J.  There are vaccine safety and immunogenicity
studies in adolescents and children that are either ongoing and/or
planned. 

For example, Pfizer-BioNTech’s study in persons aged 12 to 15 is fully
enrolled, as is the teen COVE study from Moderna in individuals 12 to
17.  This led me to tell you last time that we would know, likely by the
beginning of the fall, whether or not we can — and I believe we will be
— able to vaccinate children of high school age. 

Now, there are also trials in younger children which will follow —
referred to, for example, as the Moderna “Kid-COVE” study.  And as I
mentioned previously, J&J is also planning studies in pediatrics.  Next
slide.

And then on this last slide, just a couple of other considerations. 
People with HIV — questions we get asked all the time.  People with
stable HIV infection are included in the trials, although the data are
limited.  The HHS guidelines for HIV recommend that people with HIV
should receive the SARS-CoV-2 vaccine because the potential benefits
certainly outweigh the potential risks.

And remember, although people with HIV — persons living with HIV are
often considered to be immunocompromised, many of them, in fact, who
have normal CD4 counts, who have their viral load suppressed by
combination antiretroviral therapy, have relatively intact immune
response.  So we would expect that they would do quite well. 

And then finally, studies on highly allergic individuals are planned,
and we will keep you up to date as we get data from these studies. 

I’ll stop there.  And now back to Andy.

ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Thank you.  Let’s take some questions.

MODERATOR:  Great.  First question, we will go to Cheyenne Haslett at
ABC.

Q    Hi, thanks for taking my question.  Two questions for Dr. Fauci and
Dr. Walensky.  First, the CDC has said antibodies, after a COVID
infection, can fade after three months.  Should vaccinated people be
concerned about their — that their immunity might fade in such a short
period of time?  And then the second question is how concerned people
should be about breakthrough infections.

DR. WALENSKY:  Thank you for that question. 

DR. FAUCI:  Go ahead.

DR. WALENSKY:  You know, our current guidance says that — you know,
three months is the data that we have so far, so we are waiting for data
to emerge about how durable your protection is beyond three months.  And
so this is exactly among the reasons why we want to be cautious as we
take these first steps in our guidance post-vaccination.  The durability
and the protection, in the context of variants, are among the areas
we’re watching the evidence very carefully.

DR. FAUCI:  Yeah.  One of the things we want to emphasize is that there
is not a direct linear correlation between the level of antibody and the
degree of protection, as Dr. Walensky says.  Also, measuring antibody
does not necessarily get the entirety of the immune response.  We know
now, and we’re learning more and more, that the T-cell responses — both
CD4 and CD8 — may also contribute significantly to the durability of
protection. 

ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Dr. Fauci, do you want to comment on the
role, in the case of Moderna and Pfizer, of a second shot, in your view
of durability?

DR. FAUCI:  Yeah.  I mean, obviously, we’ve been talking for some time
now about why we feel very strongly that we need to go with the science
in showing that with Moderna, 28 days later, and with Pfizer, 21 days
later, you get the maximum protection of 94 to 95 percent efficacy.  But
importantly, if you look at the titers of the antibody following the
first dose, they may be good enough to do a degree of protection, but we
don’t know what the durability is.

Also, when you’re dealing with variants, you want a considerable cushion
of antibody response, if in fact, when you look at the variants, it
diminishes by several fold the efficacy of vaccine-induced antibodies. 
And if it diminishes it by several fold, you want to still stay within
the range of protection, as opposed to essentially falling off the grid,
as it were, if you get it so low.  So that’s the reason why we continue
to maintain that recommendation.

ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Thank you. Next question, please.

MODERATOR:  Next, we’ll go to Kaitlan Collins at CNN.

Q    Thank you, and thank you for doing this briefing.  My question is
for Dr. Walensky, regarding the new CDC guidance on what vaccinated
people can do.  We know that the risk of infection during air travel is
low when everyone is wearing a mask.  So wouldn’t it be lower for people
who are fully vaccinated?  And, if so, why did you not change the travel
guidance for vaccinated people?

DR. WALENSKY:  Thank you for that question, Kaitlan.  What we have seen
is that we have surges after people start traveling.  We saw it after
July 4th.  We saw it after Labor Day.  We saw it after the Christmas
holidays.  Currently, 90 percent of people are still unprotected and not
yet vaccinated. So, we are really looking forward to updating this
guidance as we have more protection across the communities and across
the population.

ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Next question, please.

MODERATOR:  Next, we’ll going to April Ryan with TheGrio.

Q    Thank you so much.  I have a couple of questions — one dealing with
the vaccination of pregnant women.  Once the pregnant women are
vaccinated, will the vaccination, by any chance, transfer into the
unborn child and give them antibodies?  Have you found that, as well? 

And also, on the issue of herd immunity — Dr. Fauci, I would like to get
this from you if possible — what is the anticipation, in the midst of
all of these vaccines flooding the zone, of herd immunity?  What’s the
timetable?  And do you think that you will reach that timetable, as you
have certain communities that still are not participating in the
majority way for this effort?  Thank you.

DR. FAUCI:  Thank you, April.  Very quickly, with regard to your first
question, you would definitely expect — and we’ve seen this with many
other vaccines — that when you vaccinate a mother during pregnancy, that
there’s transplacental transfer of antibody IgG from the mother to the
baby, and also in breast milk if a mother decides that she wants to
breastfeed.  So that is a very good way where you can get protection of
the mother during pregnancy and also get a transfer of protection to the
infant, which will last for a few months following the birth of the
infant.

With regard to your question about herd immunity, as I mentioned, you
can only make a calculation of what the percentage of the population
that would have to be vaccinated, plus those who have been infected and
would assume to be protected for at least for a limited period of time. 
We don’t know what that number is, but you can calculate based on, for
example, extrapolations from diseases like measles and the vaccine
protection of measles and the transmissibility of measles — which is
very, very high.  The herd immunity level for measles is around 90
percent.  Once you get into the 80s, then you could start getting into
trouble.

We anticipate — and again, it’s purely a speculation — that the herd
immunity level will be about 70 to 85 percent.  And that’s the time that
we believe, if you look at the planned rollout of the vaccines, that we
would hopefully get to that point somewhere by the end of the summer and
the early fall.

You’re absolutely correct: If a significant number of people do not get
vaccinated, then that would — that would delay where we would get to
that endpoint, which is the reason that I underscore what Dr. Walensky
said about the importance, in every aspect of what we do, of getting
more people vaccinated — just as many people as we possibly can. 

I want to also mention that we don’t want to get too hung up on reaching
this endgame of herd immunity because every day that you put 2 million
to 3 million vaccinations into people makes society be more and more
protected.  So you don’t have to wait until you get full herd immunity
to get a really profound effect on what you could do. 

For example, as Dr. Walensky said, she keeps her eye on that very
carefully as they reevaluate the guidelines, so you can get 20, 30, 40,
50 percent of the people vaccinated and not yet quite meet the empiric
number that we’re talking about and still get a very favorable effect
from vaccines.

DR. WALENSKY:  Maybe I’ll just add that the point of — incredibly
important that these are local rates as well, so if you have a
population rate that is 85 percent protected across the country but a
community that’s only 50 percent protected, you can have outbreaks in
that community.  And so really we need this level of protection
pervasive across all communities across the country.

ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Thank you.  Let’s take another question.

MODERATOR:  All right.  Last question: We’ll go to Shannon Pettypiece at
NBC.

Q    Hi.  First of all, I was wondering if you could give a bit of the
timeline on these new J&J vaccine doses that you’re talking about.  Is
that going to — when would you get those?  Is that going to speed how
quickly we can get every American vaccinated?

And secondly, I know you guys have talked before about when we’re going
to get to the point where we have more supply than demand for the
vaccine, and I wondered if you are seeing any areas yet where we are
approaching that.  I know there’s been reports from places like
Louisiana, and Alabama, some of the Carolinas, where there seems to be
more supply than demand in the states than have been expanding their
population of who’s eligible.  So I’m wondering what you guys are seeing
and then, of course, what you’re doing to try to address that.

ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Sure.  And maybe, for your second
question, I’ll also invite Dr. Walensky to add a comment about how she’s
thinking about this at the CDC.  And, of course, Dr. Fauci, if you want
to add as well.

The Johnson & Johnson 100 million doses that — that we discussed this
morning was a recent order given by the President to the COVID
Coordinator, Jeff Zients.  So, that is — that is a directive.  And so,
more details about that — it’s too — it’s too premature to provide you
more details about what the content of that is going to be. 

With regard to your second question, maybe I’ll just kick it off by
saying that I completely agree with the premise of your question, which
is that there is not a magic date where the entire country moves from
needing more vaccinations to having too many vaccines for the
population.  And, point of fact, this is a journey that we’re working on
together.  And as you suggested, community by community around the
country, they’re going to reach that spot in different places. 

We are working through the CDC and directly with state and local
officials, to continue to make that assessment.  But important for you
to know that, we are working on both sides of that equation, helping
people get straight answers to their questions about vaccines, as well
as increasing vaccine production, which we spent a lot of — more of our
time talking about here. 

Dr. Walensky, what would you add?

DR. WALENSKY:  Yeah, I would add several things.  We are working now
with 9,000 pharmacies across the country.  We know that 90 percent of
the population lives within five miles of a pharmacy.  We are now
rolling out to 250 Federal Qualified Health Centers across the country. 
We’re working with our state and local partners to provide toolkits and
assistance to ensure that they can reach — reach all of their
populations.  We’re doing vaccine confidence consult: if people have
challenges, in terms of vaccine hesitancy, how can we address those
challenges. 

There’s a lot of work going on so that we can actually delay the period
of time where people don’t want the — you know, where we have that
inflection point.  We want to have a lot of vaccine out there and we
want to have a lot of people who want it.

ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Yes, and I would add that the — the track
record of these vaccines is so good, from a safety and efficacy
standpoint, that simply making sure people have access to correct
information and not misleading information is the most important thing,
and making sure that local, trusted people have access to that
information as is — we continue to make vaccines more broadly available.

Dr. Fauci, is there anything you wanted to add on that?

DR. FAUCI:  No, no further comment, Andy.  Thank you.

ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Okay.  Great.  Okay, well, with that,
we’ll wrap up. 

We will be back on Friday.  And thank you all for your attendance.

11:33 A.M. EST

To view the COVID Press Briefing slides,
visit <https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/03/COVID-Press-Briefing_10March2021_For-Transcript.pdf>
