---
category: press-briefings
date: '2021-03-31'
modified_time: 2021-03-31 19:36:25-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/03/31/press-gaggle-by-principal-deputy-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-aboard-air-force-one-en-route-pittsburgh-pa/
published_time: 2021-03-31 19:36:24-04:00
title: Press Gaggle by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre Aboard
  Air Force One en route Pittsburgh, PA
---
 
3:00 P.M. EDT  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, as you guys know, in Pittsburgh today, President
Biden will unveil his American Jobs Plan, which will create millions of
good-paying jobs, rebuild our country’s infrastructure, and position the
United States to outcompete China.  This is a once-in-a-century capital
investment in America to transform our current and future infrastructure
and fundamental change — fundamentally change life for Americans.  
  
We will tie these investments to creating good-quality jobs that pay
prevailing wages in safe and healthy work places — jobs that ensure
workers have a free and fair choice to organize, join a union, and
bargain collectively.  And we are not going to leave behind communities
of color and rural communities that have been systematically excluded
for generations.  Our investment will also allow us to take on the
climate crisis and transition to a clean energy economy.   
  
The plan has four parts, all of which will affect our everyday lives. 
The first is how we move investments in our roads, bridges, rail, and
other elements of our transportation infrastructure.  The second is how
we live at home — investments in broadband, water, power, housing, and
buildings.  The third is how we care for one another — investments in
home and community-based care for older family members and people with
disabilities.  The fourth is how we make — how we make investments in
manufacturing, next-generation research and development, high-quality
workforce development, and critical supply chains.  
  
To pay for this historic investment in our nation’s infrastructure, the
President is proposing to fundamentally reform the corporate tax code so
that is incentivizes — so that it incentivizes job creation and
investment here in the United States, stops unfair and wasteful
profit-shifting to tax havens, and ensuring that large corporations are
paying their fair share.  
  
The President is proud of the plan he has laid out and looks forward to
a conversation over the coming weeks about what we can do to invest in
our infrastructure, boost our competitiveness, and make our tax code
easier.  
  
And one more announcement for you today: Tomorrow, the President will
convene his first full Cabinet meeting, just a day after rolling out his
American Jobs Plan, which will be a key topic of discussion.  
  
The President will lift up his deeply qualified, historically diverse
Cabinet as a key decision ma- — as key decision makers and voices for
his administration’s agenda and key priorities.   
  
The focus of the meeting will be working together to continue
implementing and communicating about the American Rescue Plan and how it
continues to deliver for working families; discussing the role Cabinet
members will play in advocating for the American Jobs Plan; and ensuring
we accelerate our federal COVID-19 response and that Americans don’t let
their guards down.  The Cabinet will be gathered in person, in the East
Room, to follow social distancing and other COVID protocols.  
  
All right.  Go ahead, Jonathan.  
  
Q    Karine, on the — thank you so much.  On the infrastructure
proposal: So, on the American Rescue Plan, the President had his
non-negotiables — right? — like the $1,400 stimulus check that had to be
in there.  What has to be in there, in this infrastructure and tax
program, for this President?  What is he going to insist, even as
negotiations begin with the Hill, must be included?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, Jonathan, you know, this infrastructure bill is —
infrastructure, as we know, has been a bipartisan issue — right? — when
it comes to Democrats and Republicans.  We even saw, you know, a poll —
a Morning Consult poll showing how — it was a poll that they did on a
hypothetical $3 trillion plan with — had a margin of 2 to 1 with
registered voters.  I mean, this is — this is a piece of legislation
that is — or a plan that is popular, even in a hypothetical sense.   
  
But we’ve also seen Republicans who have been for this.  You know, we’ve
seen, like, in polling — like 80 percent of Republicans who have
supported this infrastructure type of plan.  
  
So, you know, we are going to continue moving forward.  This is a
once-in-a-generation — right? — type of opportunity that we have here. 
This is about creating jobs.  This is about creating millions of jobs
for Americans.  You know, we talk about the American Rescue Plan; it was
a plan to meet the moment.  Right?  We were in an emergency.  Now we’re
at a different moment.  
  
And so he has said this — and we’re going back to Pittsburgh — right? —
where he was.  He’s going back to Pittsburgh, where he was two years —
two years ago when he launched his campaign and he talked about how he
wanted — he was running to rebuild the middle class.  
  
And so this is it — right? — when we’re talking about rebuilding the
middle class.  This is the American Jobs Plan: to rebuild the middle
class, to invest, to do this historic investment into this country, and
also just create jobs into the — to the American people and creating
jobs.  
  
Q    Is he — is he prepared to go — push this through Congress without
Republican votes?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, right now — as you know, the President was a
senator for 36 years.  He knows how to reach to the other side and make
thing — big things happen.  He did that as Vice President as well.   
  
So this is something that he wants to have bipartisan support.  He’s
willing to have those conversations with Republicans and, clearly, with
his Democratic colleagues, and really trying to work this through
because this is so critical and important for the American people.  
  
And so — but here’s the thing: This is going to — this is about the
American people, right?  This is who he’s going to put first for — first
in all of this.   
  
And, you know, we’re talking about, you know, roads.  We’re talking
about — you know, we’re talking about highways.  We’re talking about
investment in this country that has — we haven’t seen since the 1960s. 
That’s what we’re talking about.  We’re talking about children being
able to not drink water that has lead in it.  We’re talking about, you
know, caregiving for families who really need to be able to take care of
ailing parents who they can’t get caregivers for.  I mean, this is what
we’re talking about to help families during this time.  
  
Q    Does — excuse me, does he have a timeframe on when he would like to
get this passed and —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, as you know, this is — so, as I mentioned, the
American Rescue Plan was to meet that moment — that crucial moment.  And
along, you know, with the help of Congress, he was able to do that.  We
passed that.  It’s — we’re seeing already the effects, in a big way, of
how that one point — trillion-dollar plan is affecting American families
as far as getting shots in arms, COVID response, and people getting that
$1,400 check.  
  
With this one, he’s — you know, it’s going to take some time, and we’re
willing to, like, go with the process and have those conversations on
the Hill, which we were already having.  We’ve already been having those
conversations with Republicans and Democrats.  And so we’re just going
to see how this goes.  But he is zeroed in, laser-focused on this plan. 
You’re — that’s what you’re going to — you’ll hear him talk more about
this later today.  
  
Q    What’s the message to Democrats who, right now — some progressives
who are saying “This doesn’t go far enough”?  And are you concerned
about keeping Democrats together on this?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Like I said, this is a once-in-a-generation
opportunity that we’re seeing here to invest in our country, invest in
America — you know, to invest in the American — the American families,
the American people; to create millions of jobs; to actually fix our
roads; to actually, you know, have a commitment to manufacturing and all
of the things that he has been talking about for the last two years. 
And so this is what we’re talking about.  
  
And so, look, he put his plan forward, and now we’re going to have that
conversation — right? — with Democrats and Republicans.  And if they
have something to propose, we’ll have those conversations with them as
well.  
  
Q    Do you know (inaudible) estimate of how many millions of jobs this
plan will create?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have that number with me right now, but in the
coming days —  
  
Q    Is there a reason why the administration didn’t roll out a big
number like that at the beginning?  I believe that they did during the
campaign with the Build Back Better program?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I think this is — no, it’s a good question.  I think
this is part one — right? — of the plan.  As we’ve mentioned, there’s
going to be a second plan coming up in the next couple of weeks that the
President will talk about.  And so this is the beginning of the
process.  We’ll have that for you.  
  
Q    Leader McConnell said that he spoke with the President yesterday. 
Can you provide some more information about what they discussed?  And
did the President have any other conversations with Republican
senators?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I can’t — I — you know, we don’t preview conversation
that’s had, especially with folks on the Hill.  
  
Q    And is he planning to have Republican leadership over to the White
House to try to discuss this?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  As you know, the last couple of weeks, he had meetings
with both Republicans and Democrats on infrastructure.  And so he did —
there was outreach that was had.  There’s outreach that’s done by staff,
as we know.  And so we’re just going to continue, kind of, that cadence
and making sure that we’re reaching out and having those conversations —
because this is a critical bill for the President.  
  
Q    I wanted to ask one question on the immigration front. Reporters
did just get into one of these detention facilities and the conditions
were pretty bleak.  It’s at, I believe, 1,700 percent capacity.  Is
there a plan to alleviate this overcrowding?  And by what point should
conditions down there be better?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  As we have said repeatedly, you know, a Border
Patrol facility is no place for a child.  And we have been working
around the clock, in coordination with HHS, to quickly move
unaccompanied children out of these crowded Border Patrol stations and
into the care of HHS so they can be placed with family members or other
sponsors.  We’ve — we even put the ORR staff and HHS staff embedded into
D- — into CBP to make this happen, to expedite that process.  
  
We deployed FEMA to help HHS quickly build additional capacity to
shelter unaccompanied children.  We also developed and deployed a plan
for HHS to more quickly place unaccompanied children with family
members.   
  
We are seeing progress, but it’s going to take time.  And so, you know —
but let me be clear: We are tr- — we are putting out the message, “The
border is not open.  People should not make the dangerous journey.  And
we will continue to expel individuals and families.”  
  
Q    Hey, Karine, is he — is — on the Derek Chauvin trial, is the
President watching it up there like we’re watching it back here?  Does
he plan to reach out to Floyd’s family?  Has he had any conversations
with them since they were at the DNC?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So I don’t have anything to read out on if he’s going
to reach out to him, but, you know, the President has spoken in personal
terms about the death of George Floyd, as you know. 

It affected him in a way that it affects so — affected so many Americans
last year, and he redoubled his commitment to advancing racial justice. 
You know, he — everything that he has done as President — when you look
at even — when you look at the American Jobs Plan, when you look at the
American Rescue Plan — has had equity at the center of it. 

And when he signed the executive order, back on January 6th, on racial
equity, he said, “Those 8 minutes and 46 seconds that took George
Floyd’s life opened the eyes of millions of Americans and millions of
people…all over the world.  It was the knee on the neck of justice, and
it wouldn’t be forgotten.  It stirred the conscience of tens of millions
of Americans, and, in my view, it marked a turning point in this
country’s attitude toward racial justice.”

So he’s watching just like millions of Americans are, and, you know,
we’re keeping an eye on it. 

Q    You had said you were going to do part two coming soon, that this
is part one.  Why should — why do it in two parts?  And should people
look at that as: These are the most critical priorities right now and
this is what the President wants to get done, and you’re less confident
about part two?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  There are multiple pillars in this, and one is not —
you know, one is not more important than the other.  This plan — the
American Jobs Plan — is critical, as I’ve mentioned before, and it’s
important.  It’s going to — it’s an investment, as I’ve said, into the
country and American workers and American families. 

So there’s — no one is more equal or better than the other.  And just
like the — in a couple of weeks, he will talk about the second part of
his plan.

Q    When Jake Sullivan meets with the Japanese and South Koreans on
Friday, in Annapolis, is he going to brief them on the President’s
policy review toward North Korea? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So this was — this was released by NSC last night, so
let me just inform everyone what’s happening on Friday. 

So this Friday, April 2nd, National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan will
welcome his counterparts from Japan and from the Republic of Korea for a
trilateral dialogue at the United States Naval Academy in Annapolis,
Maryland. 

This trilateral meeting, which follows the visits of Secretary of State
Anthony Blinken and Secretary of Defense Lloyd Austin to Japan and the
Republic of Korea, provides an opportunity for our nations to consult on
a wide range of regional issues and foreign policy priorities, including
maintenance — maintaining peace and stability on the Korean Peninsula
and addressing the COVID-19 pandemic and combating climate change. 

This meeting with Japan and the Republic of Korea is the first national
secretary/advisor-level multilateral dialogue of the Biden
administration, reflecting the importance we place on broadening and
deepening our cooperation on key issues and advancing our shared
prosperity across a free and open Indo-Pacific. 

Q    So I — is the review done on North Korea?  Is it completed?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Let me see if I have anything for you on that.   
  
So we are in the final stages of our intensive multi-stakeholder North
Korea police \[sic\] — policy review.  This has been a thorough
interagency review of U.S. policy towards North Korea, including
evaluation of all available options to address the increasing threat
posed by North Korea to its neighbors and the broader international
community.  
  
This process has integrated a diverse set of voices from throughout the
government and incorporated inputs from think tanks and outside
experts.  We have consulted with many former government officials
involved in North Korea policy, including several from the previous
administration.   
  
So we look forward to discussing our review with the national security
advisors of South Korea and Japan at our trilateral dialogue in
Annapolis, on Friday.  So there you go.  
  
Q    Thank you.  (Laughter.)  
  
Q    So the President’s plan includes taxes over 15 years to pay for
spending over 8 years.  Would he be open to, you know, not paying for
some of this — for some of this to be, you know, deficit spending?  Is
that something that he’s open to if that’s what Democrats, in
particular, want to do, as we’re already hearing from some
progressives?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, he believes this should be paid for, which is
why he included this in his plan.  
  
AIDE:  The airplane has (inaudible) for landing.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, all right.   
  
AIDE:  So brace yourselves, I guess.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  (Laughs.)  
  
Q    Grab hold of something.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, my gosh.   
  
(Air Force One lands.)  (Laughter.)  
  
 (Cross-talk.)  
  
 So, Jen, he basically has always said that this should be paid for.  
  
 Q    Yeah.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  You know, an investment like this, it should be paid
for.  I mean, that’s what he believes, and he’s willing to have
conversations with Congress — clearly that’s what he wants to do — and
to see what they can offer.  
  
But then the question would be to them: Then how do you pay for it? 
Right?  And so that’s why he has the — in this first plan, he has the
corporate tax reform, which is a way to pay for this.  And this —
there’s fairness, right?  If you think about it, there’s fairness in
this — in this piece of legislation, which is why, you know, they — we
put in the corporate tax reform.  It’s important for that process to
happen as well — the fairness part of it.  
  
Q    Thank you.  
  
Q    Thank you so much.   
  
 MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right, thanks guys.  
  
  Q    Appreciate it.  
  
3:17 P.M. EDT  
