---
tags: press-briefings
date: '2021-03-03'
modified_time: 2021-03-03 17:33:02-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/03/03/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-jen-psaki-march-3-2021/
published_time: 2021-03-03 17:45:00-05:00
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Jen\_Psaki, March 3,\_2021"
---
 
12:38 P.M. EST  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Okay.  I have a couple of items for all of you at the top. 
Yesterday, I discussed the President’s announcement about the historic
partnership between Merck and Johnson & Johnson to produce more COVID-19
vaccines.  And, of course, he laid out more details yesterday
afternoon.  
  
He also directed states to prioritize teachers for vaccinations in an
effort to treat in-person learning, like essential — the essential
service it is.  He challenged all 50 states to get teachers, school
staff, and childcare workers their first shot by the end of this
month.  
  
To help states do that, starting next week we will be using the federal
pharmacy program to prioritize vaccinating teachers, school staff, and
childcare workers during the month of March.  This is a part of the
President’s effort to urge states to prioritize vaccines for all
essential workers.   
  
The Special Enrollment Period, which we talked about a couple of weeks
ago — I have an update on that and the number of people who have
enrolled.  On February 15th, the Biden-Harris administration opened
HealthCare.gov for three months to provide all Americans the opportunity
to sign up for health insurance through a Special Enrollment Period.  In
the two weeks since, more than 200,000 Americans have gotten covered. 
These numbers are encouraging, but we can’t slow down until every
American has health coverage.  
  
There is plenty of time left to sign up.  And, of course, people who
need health insurance can go to HealthCare.gov to sign up before May
15th.  
  
Today, also — and there’s been a little bit of reporting about this, so
I just wanted to go through this to provide some clarity — the President
will issue his Interim National Security Strategic Guidance, laying out
a vision for how the United States can seize what we view as a
once-in-a-generation opportunity to renew America’s advantages at home
and abroad.   
  
The Guidance is designed to communicate the administration’s strategic
approach and central priorities for national security policy.  It
describes the changed strategic landscape the United States faces today
and affirms our enduring core national interests, including protecting
the security of the American people, expanding economic prosperity and
opportunity, and realizing and defending the democratic values at the
heart of the American way of life.   
  
The Guidance will provide direction to departments and agencies in
advance of a new National Security Strategy, which we expect to release
later this year, as many past presidents have done.  And we will post
this ISG on the White House website later this afternoon.   
  
I would also encourage everyone to tune into the remarks of Secretary
Blinken delivered this morning, “A Foreign Policy for the American
People,” which touched on a number of the same pillars.  
  
    This afternoon, the President and Vice President will also meet with
members of Congress, which we announced last night, to begin working
together in a bipartisan way to end cancer as we know it.  
  
Defeating cancer is of significant personal importance to the President,
the First Lady, and the Vice President.  And cancer is, of course, a
disease that impacts — affects many Americans, no matter their political
affiliation.  This has been a priority of the President’s, as we all
know, for many, many years.  And this is his first engagement with
members of Congress in the Oval Office about it.  
  
One last piece, just to make sure you all are all following the
activities of the Vice President: The Vice President will be visiting a
woman-owned small business in Alexandria, Virginia, later today, called
Fibre Space.  The Vice President heard how the small business has been
impacted by COVID-19 and how they had to adjust their business model. 
She also will discuss the importance of passing the American Rescue Plan
— of course, as you’ve heard us all talk about a few times — while she
is visiting this small business.    
  
With that, Alex, go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Jen.  I want to start with your OMB nominee.  Yesterday,
the last outstanding Republican senator, Lisa Murkowski, said that she
did not tell the White House her stance on Tanden.  What eventually did
Tanden’s nomination end?  Why was she withdrawn?  And can you talk a
little bit about who you’re looking at for a replacement, particularly
Shalanda Young?  Pelosi, Hoyer, and Representative Clyburn came out in
support of her today.  Is the White House looking at her as a potential
replacement?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, let me first say that given Neera Tanden withdrew her
nomination just last night, I would not expect — or you should not
expect any announcement on a future nominee this week.  Obviously, the
President’s schedule is quite full.  His focus remains on the American
Rescue Plan and the range of meetings and engagements he has already
planned and scheduled.  
  
Of course, he has nominated Shalanda Young to serve as Deputy OMB
Director, and that nomination, along with about a half a dozen nominees
who are — have been nominated to serve as heading agencies, are still
sitting and waiting to be confirmed.  And so we would certainly
encourage and urge action — and urgent action on moving those forward.  
  
In terms of the nomination, Neera Tanden, as we’ve talked about for some
time in here, is someone who’s been — has been leading a — still leads,
I should say — a think tank in Washington, D.C.  She certainly saw that
the path to her own confirmation was — was narrowed and did not look
like there was a path forward.   
  
I’m not going to get into the details of who was or wasn’t against her,
or for her, or was or wasn’t going to vote for her or against her.  We
can leave that to members of the Senate to speak to on their own.  But
it was a recognition that Neera Tanden made.  We certainly, of course,
as we noted in the statement last night, accepted her decision to
withdraw her nomination.  And when we have an announcement about the new
nominee, we will make that.  But again, as we noted in the statement,
the President is looking forward to finding a place for her in the
administration, and values her experience and her talents, and is looked
for — looking forward to utilizing them.  
  
Q    And then, the threats against the Capitol tomorrow, is the
President monitoring those?  Has he been briefed?  And has the
administration directed law enforcement to prepare any better than they
were prepared, considering the January 6 activities at the Capitol?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, we certainly have been watching the hearings that have
been happening on Capitol Hill over the last two days — our team has
been.  I know the President has caught clips of those, but, of course,
he has a full schedule, as you all well know.  And we are ready and
eager to work in partnership with leaders in Congress with — on any
recommendations that are made to ensure their safety and security and to
prevent the events that happened on January 6th from ever happening
again.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    If I can, quickly, a little homework around here as it relates to
the COVID relief bill.  I know we’ll see you speaking — the President
speaking to the House Democratic Caucus later today.  Can you confirm
that the President has signed off on these reduced income thresholds as
it relates to those direct payments?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, let me — let me provide a little context here, because
some of the reporting — it’s all coming out, so some of the reporting is
aligned with accuracy and some is not; no one’s fault.  
  
Q    That’s the true story.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  First — (laughs) — so, one — I talked to the President about
this this morning — he’s pleased with the progress that is being made on
the rescue plan.  As someone who served for 36 years in the Senate, he
is certainly familiar with the journey that it takes from a proposal to
a bill being signed.  And, in every instance, in the final stage, which
we feel we were in — we are in now, there are suggestions, there are
changes, there are negotiations between even different member —
different parts of one party.  That’s what — that’s what’s happening
now.  And he is open to — has always said he’s open to good ideas and to
proposals that will strengthen the package.  
  
What he has been firm on is that the package needs to be large enough to
meet the scope of the twin crises we’re facing: COVID and the economic
downturn.  He has been firm on the importance of the $1,400 checks going
out to Americans, and that — and he has fought for that tooth and nail
and is — that is a — that is a bar for him.  And he’s also been firm on
the thresholds at which Americans should receive those checks.  
  
So, as we’ve seen in the reporting, it’s 75K and 150K.  He has been
clear that those are important thresholds to him.  What we’re talking
about here — and I realize you didn’t actually ask this, but just for
clarity for everyone — is where the — where is the — is the ramp-up and
how far the ramp-up goes.   
  
Q    Where it ends.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Where it ends, I should say.  Where it ends.  And he has
also been open from the beginning for those — that being more targeted
and for there to be a steeper — steeper cliff at which that ramp down
ends.  
  
Q    So for clarity, is he — does he support — I know he’s okay with —
what you just said out there — is he okay with it ending at $80,000 for
individuals, $160,000 for couples, and $120,000 for heads of
households?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  He is comfortable with where the negotiations stand.  Of
course, there are going to be ongoing discussions.  We don’t have a
final bill, as you know.  There will be ongoing discussions.  He is
comfortable and knows there will be tweaks at the margin.  What his firm
viewpoint is, is that it needs to meet the scope of the challenge, it
needs to be the size he’s proposed, it needs to have the core components
in order to have the impact on the American people.  
  
Q    And he’s confident that he’ll have 50 Democrats that’ll all support
where it stands based on those changes to which you just referred?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  He is — he is certainly.  That’s one of the reasons why he’s
meeting with members of Congress.  You can — you can define them any way
you like — moderates, progressives, Republicans — because he’s not
taking anything for granted, as we work to get this past the finish
line.  
  
Q    Let me ask you about these new rocket attacks that took place in
Iraq.  Obviously still no formal assessment on who’s responsible here. 
A lot of suspicion Iran is behind this.  The President said to me last
week — he said to them, “You can’t act with impunity, be careful
\[here\].”  What do you do about this? What is the response we should
expect from this administration following this new round of attacks?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, just to confirm some of the pieces you mentioned, we
are still assessing the impact of this latest rocket attack, including
determining precise attribution.  Of course, it just happened over the
course of last night.   
  
As you noted also, we responded to recent Iranian-backed attacks on
coalition and U.S. forces in a manner that was calculated,
proportionate, and fully covered by legal authorities.  That will be our
model moving forward.   
  
If we assess that further response is warranted, we will take action,
again, in a manner and time of our choosing.  And we reserve that
option.  
  
The President was briefed by his national security team this morning,
who was, of course, monitoring the details overnight.  What we won’t do
is make a hasty or ill-informed decision that further escalates the
decision or plays into the hands of our adversaries.   
  
Q    Let me ask one last question, given the news that came out last
night about Texas and Mississippi.  The President was in Texas, met with
Governor Abbott just a matter of days ago.  They have now, in both of
those states, removed their mask mandates, and they’re reopening at 100
percent, even as this White House says, “Now is not the time for that.” 
How do you characterize those decisions?  And what do you say to the
governors of those two states that are making them?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, first, the President’s position on mask wearing is
based on the recommendations of health and medical experts and their
views that it could save 50,000 lives.  That is why he asked the
American people to wear masks for 100 days.  
  
For nearly a year, we’ve been dealing and navigating and coping with
this pandemic across the country.  And this entire country has paid the
price for political leaders who ignored the science when it comes to the
pandemic.   
  
We talked a little bit yesterday about how people are starting to feel a
little bit better in some cases.  You go to the grocery store, and
there’s Clorox wipes available.  And a year into this that feels better,
but there’s still more work that needs to be done.  We need to remain
vigilant, and he believes that, and he’s hopeful, that people in these
states will continue to follow the guidelines that have been set out and
the recommendations made by health and medical experts.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Jen, thank you.  I have several questions about teachers getting
vaccinated, but to follow up on Peter first:  Does President Biden plan
to speak to the governors, to have them reconsider their orders?  And
secondly, what are people in those states supposed to do if they’re
confused about whether to listen to their governor or the President?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, first, I would say we’re not asking people just to
listen to the President.  Of course, we recommend that, but we’re asking
people to listen to health experts, medical experts, the CDC, to Dr.
Fauci, to others who are basing their recommendations on how to save
people’s lives.  That’s what we’re asking people to do.  
  
The President’s view is well known — we all know it quite well — about
why mask wearing is important — again, based on health and medical
experts.  He speaks with governors of both parties on a regular basis. 
He obviously traveled with the governor last Friday, and I’m sure he
will raise this at the next opportunity he has.  
  
Q    And on the President’s goal to vaccinate educators by the end of
this month: Last month, he made it very clear that, as you well know,
it’s up to states to determine how to prioritize vaccines.  And you
reminded us that even though there are federal recommendations, the
process is not to mandate states to prioritize anyone.   
  
What has changed between then and now?  And what power does President
Biden have to direct states to prioritize teachers?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, first, 30 states are already doing this.  So that is
the majority of states in the country who are treating teachers as
essential workers, and that’s what the President is asking, what he is
recommending.   
  
We, of course — right now, the teachers will have access through
pharmacies.  That is — the supply that goes to pharmacies is through the
federal supply.  And so that is a — you know, an area where we can work
through a program that we have instituted to ensure that teachers are
prioritized.   
  
Q    So, today you’ve said that he is challenging states, he’s asking
states, he’s urging states, but yesterday the President said he’s
directing states.  So is it just a firm request, or is he using some
mechanism and authority to direct them?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, again, he is using a federal program that is — works —
that is distributing vaccines to pharmacies across the country to ensure
that teachers are prioritized.  It is not — it remains — it does not —
it remains the same case it’s been, where it is not a prerequisite for
schools to open; it is just a — it is one of the mitigation steps that
can be taken for teachers to be vaccinated.  But he believes that
teachers should be treated as essential workers.   
  
There is, of course, the power of the bully pulpit; there is the power
of the pharmacy program that the federal government is instituting.  And
certainly, as the President of the United States, the leader of the
country, he is conveying, “This is important.”  It’s not a Republican or
a Democratic issue whether or not our kids are behind.  We have all seen
the impact on mental health.  We’ve seen the impact on kids being —
doing Zoom from their kitchen tables and kitchen counters.  
  
And everybody wants — the President wants kids to be back in school. 
This is part of the effort to ease that.  
  
Q    And one last question on the effort.  You’re using the federal
pharmacy program, which was supposed to establish more equity,
especially for communities of color.  Dr. Celine Gounder has called the
move to prioritize teachers “anti-equity,” since most teachers are
white, and it’s taking away from those people who are underserved.   
  
So what is the administration doing to make sure teachers, and these
people who are underserved, will have the same access to vaccines?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, first, we simply disagree, and not just me or the
President, but the head of our Equity Task Force and our health and
medical team, for a couple of reasons.   
  
One is it’s critical to remember that the program is beyond teachers; it
includes bus drivers, janitorial workers, childcare workers — a
workforce that is broadly, incredibly diverse.   
  
Second, getting kids back to school is one of the most equitable steps
we can take, because what we’ve seen statistically is that black and
Latino students are disproportionately experiencing learning loss for a
variety of reasons — Internet interconnectivity, parents who are
disproportionately frontline workers — and this compounds the damaging
effects of policies that already leaves students of color with
lower-quality resources.   
  
So our view is actually that this step is one that is meant to help
communities of color, help students who are already being
disproportionately disadvantaged by schools being closed.  
  
Go ahead.   
  
Q    Thanks.  Following up on this, you know, you said again that the
CDC’s recommendations were clear that educators don’t have to be
vaccinated to safely reopen schools, but we’re hearing this big push,
this prioritization with the White House, through the pharmacy program. 
So what do you say to critics who say this just isn’t about science;
it’s about politics and appeasing the unions?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  I would say that our actions have been clear, that we’ve
been basing our recommendations to school — our work with school
districts to reopen on science, on the recommendations of CDC
guidelines; and that we’ve been clear it’s not a prerequisite.  It is
not a requirement for teachers to be vaccinated.   
  
However, we also — the President has also been clear he believes they
should be prioritized, as many other frontline workers are, because —
because they are playing a vital role — a role as essential workers,
teaching our kids, educating the future of the country.   
  
So, you know, this is a challenging issue, but this is a step where the
President could take, using his ability, his authority of federal
government program, to ensure he’s sending the message that teachers
should be prioritized because of the value of their work, the essential
role they play teaching the next generation — schools across the
country, many of which keep reopening every single week.  As you know,
Dr. Biden and our new Secretary of Education are visiting a few
today.   
  
We’ll continue to work with them and push for them.  It’s not a
prerequisite, and nothing has changed on that front.   
  
Q    I’d like to ask about Director Wray but if I can just follow up
there.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  
  
Q    What’s your message then to other essential workers?  Are teachers
really more at risk in the classroom than Americans who are working at a
meatpacking plant?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, look, certainly the President has taken a number of
steps over the last couple of days to expedite the availability and the
access of vaccines to Americans across the country, working in a range
of industries.   
  
This is a step that he felt was important to take because of the impact
on the next generation of kids, of the future of the workforce, future
leaders in our country.  And we — it’s very clear that, you know, it’s
important for schools to be reopened.  It’s not a political issue or a
partisan issue; we all — we all agree with that.  
  
Q    Okay.  And thanks.  I appreciate it.  Just on the — we have — you
have all these back-to-back hearings on Capitol Hill about the January 6
riots.  And so much of a blame game, all this finger-pointing — Capitol
Police saying they didn’t get information from FBI; the FBI saying they
gave what they knew.  
  
Like, how can the President be confident now in Director Wray’s ability
to protect against another attack?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, you know, he is — remains confident in FBI Director
Wray.  He — of course, we will be monitoring the hearings.  And I think
there will be lessons learned, as we come out of the hearings, that will
be applied across government, whether that’s in Congress or certainly
where they apply in federal agencies.  And as you know, it’s not limited
to these hearings.  There are also — now we have an Attorney General,
and there are investigations that are underway there, and we certainly
want to do everything we can, across the board, to prevent an attack
from happening in the future.   
  
Go ahead.   
Q    Yeah, so on the congressional nominations: Today, your nominee for
Health Secretary, Xavier Becerra, was — basically got a tied vote in the
Senate Finance Committee.  Are you concerned?  And have you assured
yourself, with people like Joe Manchin, that this nomination is also not
in jeopardy?  Can you say a word about that?   
  
And what does it mean that the — you know, you had to — you lost the
Tanden nomination?  What does that mean in terms of your ability to get
things done?  Or was that just an isolated case?  Is it — does it send a
signal for the rest of the other nominations and other legislation if
you’re losing Democrats?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  Well, let me start with the last question first.  No,
we don’t believe — and any member of the Senate can tell you this, or
I’m sure they will tell you this: that they look at each nomination and
whether they’re going to vote to support and confirm a nominee on an
individual basis; otherwise, every nominee will get the same exact
number of votes.  Right?  And they don’t.   
  
And we had — of course, Cecilia Rouse was confirmed as the first woman
of color to lead the White House Council of Economic Advisers with 94
votes.  A number of nominees, who we — who the President has put
forward, have received an overwhelming majority of support from
Democrats and Republicans.  Miguel Cardona was just confirmed.  Gina
Raimondo was confirmed as Secretary of Commerce.  And I can go through
and run through the number, of course, who have received strong,
bipartisan support.  They’re each looked at individually.   
  
The President nominated Attorney General Xavier Becerra to lead the
Department of Health and Human Services because he has a record of
fighting alongside Democrats and Republicans to expand access to COVID
treatments and to take on abusive practices of tobacco companies.  He
has a career of working to — he has a career behind him, working to
increase access to quality, affordable healthcare, and to protect under-
— protecting underserved communities.   
  
He helped create the Affordable Care Act — something, of course, the
President was in — was serving as Vice President during that period of
time, and stood up for it assiduously in court.  And his nomination has
been met enthusiastically by healthcare experts, including the American
Hospital Association, the Kaiser Family Foundation, multiple former
secretaries of Health and Human Services, and of course, our very own
Dr. Fauci.   
  
We certainly understood from the beginning that every nominee would not
receive 93 votes, but we are — remain confident and confidently behind
the nomination.  
  
And I will also note that Secretary Cassidy — of course, a Republican,
as you all know — told the Attorney General that — Attorney General
Becerra, I should say — that if he were a betting man, he’d bet he has
the votes.  So we’ll see.  
  
Q    Can I just follow up on the other part?  I mean, how do you — do
you need to take some measures to ensure that your policies don’t suffer
when there’s a defection like Joe Manchin?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  In terms of future policy?  I think what I was conveying,
Andrea, is that each of these members looks at each proposal — whether
it’s a bill or a nominee — through the prism of that proposal, and I
would expect any of them would convey that to you; otherwise, the same
people would vote for or against every single proposal that is put
forward, and that is certainly not what happens.  
  
The President has, of course, been engaged with Senator Manchin, has
been hearing and listening to his proposals and ideas and suggestions. 
And most importantly, though, Senator Manchin and others in the Senate
are negotiating with each other about what package they can support
moving forward as it relates to the American Rescue Plan.  That’s
ongoing now.  But Senator Manchin has been clear that he supports a big
package.  He believes it should meet the moment.  And so we’re looking
forward to working with him and getting this across the finish line.  
  
Q    Is there some sort of negotiation that you have to do where you
basically start to offer proposals as part of, say, the infrastructure
bill to ensure, kind of, strong support going forward?  You’ve only got
— you’ve only got less than half of your nominees for Cabinet-level
posts confirmed at this point.  Are you starting to get edgy about
that?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  We certainly believe that the Senate should move forward
with the approximately half a dozen — or about five, I believe —
Cabinet-level nominees who have still not been confirmed, because it is
essential we have somebody leading the Department of Health and Human
Services, of course, as we’ve been talking about, but also with the
other agencies, given the range of crises we’re facing as a country.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    I have a question about minimum wage and then on Capitol hearings. 
Would the President be open to sitting down and talking to Senate
Republicans who have offered support for a minimum wage hike that is
below $15 an hour?  Or is he firm on the $15?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  He’s been open to hearing ideas from a range of members of
both parties on a bunch of different topics.  He’s been clear that his
proposal is to increase the minimum wage to $15 an hour, to do it over a
period of time, which members of the Senate, including progressive
Democrats like Bernie Sanders, also support.  That’s what he supports,
and that’s what he’d propose at this point in time.   
  
Q    Would he not entertain anything below $15 an hour?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  He’s happy to hear any ideas, but I’m not going to negotiate
from here, obviously.  And he’s been very clear, publicly and privately,
about his commitment to raising the minimum wage to $15.   
  
Q    Okay.  And then, last week, the Acting Capitol Police Chief
testified that there have been threats to the joint session that the —
that President Biden is going to address Congress — to potentially blow
up the Capitol during any address that President Biden gives.  How has
that factored into preparations for a potential State of Union?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I wouldn’t speak to any threats under any circumstance
from here.  I’d certainly point you to the Secret Service.   
  
I would say, broadly speaking, what we’ve confirmed and talked about in
the past is that when it became clear — which it probably should’ve been
from the beginning — but that the American Rescue Plan would not — would
take until hopefully about mid-March to get passed and signed into law,
we made a decision internally that we weren’t going to have the
President propose his forward-looking agenda beyond that.  It meant
parts of his Build Back Better agenda still being determined, policy
discussions still going on internally until after that bill is signed,
after those checks are going out to Americans, after that vaccine money
is going out — after the money is going out to schools.  
  
Q    Okay.  Sorry, one last question.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  
  
Q    The Commanding General of the D.C. National Guard said today that
it took more than three hours for approval to come down before the
National Guard was sent to respond to the insurrection.  But the
Pentagon’s Homeland Defense Chief actually disputed that and said that
it was only over an hour.  Is it concerning at all to the White House
that almost two months later, there is still no consensus on a timeline
within — even within DOD on this?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I would really send that question to DOD and to the hearings
that are happening as we speak.  This all happened, of course, during
the prior administration, as we all well know.  We’re watching these
hearings closely.  We’ll see what lessons are learned from them.  And
we’re eager to work with members of both parties on putting forward
policies that prevent it from ever happening again.   
  
Go ahead, Jen.  
  
Q    I have two questions on two different subjects.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Okay.  
  
Q    First, you know, this agreement to, you know, change the
eligibility rules around the stimulus checks was something that got
moderate Democrats on board.  Are you concerned at all about the left on
this — that, you know, they see this as negotiating against yourself
and, you know, maybe not living up to the promise that even the
President was making in campaigning with the Georgia runoff
candidates?   
  
Are you concerned that, you know, by cutting some people out of
eligibility, that you’re actually giving people — there are people who
are going — who are not going to get checks who did get checks during
the Trump administration, and that in some way is not living up to his
political promises?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  What the President promised and committed to was ensuring
that the American people receive $2,000 in checks.  This $1,400 is part
of delivering on that promise.   
  
He also proposed, of course, a higher threshold, as you know, in his own
proposal, in his joint session speech that he delivered a couple of
weeks ago.   
  
He has also been clear that he is open to changes on the margins of this
package.  While he is very firm on the $1,400 — and, as you know,
there’s been negotiations about trying to lower that to $1,000 or change
the size of the check — he’s unmovable on that; repeated that to me
again this morning.  And he has been very clear that the threshold
should be at 75K and 150K for families.   
  
But he also knows that the sausage-making machine sometimes spits out a
different package — almost always it spits out a different package than
what is proposed initially.  These are negotiations primarily through
Democrats in Congress with each other, but he’s a part of — you know, he
rolls up his sleeves; he gets involved in them too.   
  
And, you know, he’s confident that this is a package, with all of the
components included, that — and he’s hopeful that Democrats of all
political backgrounds can get behind.  
  
Q    So before the previous package passed, he was already talking about
his hopes for this package.  So, before this package passed, I know
you’re not going — you’re not rolling out your bigger Build Back Better
agenda, but are you already thinking — is the administration thinking,
maybe, that another stimulus check will be needed at some point in the
summer or fall for people?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, we’re only six weeks in, so I can’t predict for you
there will never be stimulus checks in the future.  Obviously, we’re
still in the midst of an economic crisis.  That’s the reason why the
President has been clear about the urgency of acting here.   
  
The Build Back Better agenda, or more pieces of it — I’ll just reiterate
that the format, the order, the size of that has not been determined. 
And, you know, there won’t be more details that are finalized or
previewed until after this bill is signed and the relief is getting to
the American people.  So we’ll see what it looks like at that point in
time.   
  
Obviously, we feel these checks and the components in the package —
whether it’s preventing 11 million people from being dropped from
unemployment insurance, or essential funding to get schools open, or
funding to increase vaccine distribution around the country — is
essential to not just the crisis in this moment, but what we’re facing
and looking ahead to the coming months.  
  
     Q    On another topic, is the administration providing assistance
to Jackson, Mississippi, for the water crisis there?  Is that something
that the President has been briefed on or will be briefed on and, sort
of, the equity issues around that as well?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure, I’m happy to ask our — our acting head of FEMA about
that and where — the status of that and where it sits.  And I can get
back to you directly, or others who are interested in that.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Yes.  Earlier this week, you talked about a U.S. citizen named Anne
Sacoolas, who now (inaudible) immunity, but people in Britain think she
should come back to stand trial.  You said earlier this week that she
had been working during the prior administration.  And I’m wondering if
you can just clarify that.  Does President Biden see the case of Anne
Sacoolas in any different way than his predecessor does?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  I think I was stating what is accurate: that she was working
previously during the last administration.  I think that’s an accurate
statement.  So — and I was conveying that I think I asked — the person
who asked about it — I can’t remember who it was — to go ask the State
Department, because they would certainly oversee things like diplomatic
immunity and all of the questions that were being asked around her
case.  
  
Q    Sure.  There was — it was absolutely accurate.  I’m just wondering
why you brought it up and why you thought it was relevant since she had
not been a political appointee.  And also, lots of people have said that
President Biden might look at this case differently.  He talks about the
importance of empathy.  And certainly the Dunn family, the parents of
the boy who was killed in the car accident, would very much like for
Anne Sacoolas to return to the UK for trial.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Certainly I’m — I’ve, of course, watched the case as many
people probably on BBC.  And we watch — have watched coverage of it in
the past.  I — I was certainly — I was asked the question, so I think I
was just answering the question that was asked and providing context for
people who are not familiar with the case.  
  
Obviously the President has not even nominated ambassadors, as I know
you frequently ask about in here.  So I was just simply providing that
context to people who had not been following it closely.  But again,
it’s under the purview of the State Department so I’d certainly point
you to them, and I’m sure my old friend Ned Price is briefing today and
would be happy to answer your questions about it.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Jen.  A couple of questions.  A moratorium on evictions
that the President extended in January —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Mm-hmm.  
  
Q    — is set to expire at the end of the month.  Since that has not
included — since another extension was not included in the COVID bill, a
lot of activists are urging him to issue another executive order
extending it further.  So does he think that the moratorium needs to be
extended?  And is he willing to do it through an executive order?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  That’s a — it’s a great question, as you know, because it
sounds like you follow this closely.  It is actually agency action, so
he can direct it or ask for them to look at it, but it is really up to
agencies to take those actions. Multiple agencies are involved in this
particular action.  I will check with our NEC team and see if there’s
more to preview for you as it’s expiring, I think, March — is it March
31st?  So we have a couple of weeks, but I’m happy to talk to them about
that.  
  
Q    And one more question.  Last year, the previous — the previous
administration extended the tax filing deadline to July the 15th because
of COVID.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Mm-hmm.  
  
Q    We’re still in the middle of a pandemic, so is that something this
administration is considering?  And if not, why?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I would certainly suggest you ask Secretary Yellen’s team
and, of course, the public affairs team at the IRS that question who
would make that determination.  
  
Go ahead, Hans.  
  
Q    Given the clear importance you’re placing on vaccinating teachers,
I’m wondering if there’s been any discussion at all about holding back
some of the federal stockpile outside of this, sort of, federal pharmacy
program and going directly and having some sort of program to vaccinate
teachers?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I think this is the step that we feel is most effective and
immediately impactful in terms of ensuring that teachers can go to their
local pharmacies — pharmacies that are already functioning, already
distributing the vaccine.   
  
We’ve seen, I think, in some New England states, there was some
reporting about it already being underway, or about to be underway.  So
this was the step that our team that oversees the operational
components, as well as the health components, felt was most
effective.   
  
You know, we always reserve a range of options.  We understand we’re
still at the height of a pandemic, but I don’t have anything to preview,
nor am I aware of that being under consideration.  
  
Q    Okay.  So that was my biggest question — is that this was never
under consideration, or you don’t know if it was, or if it were?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Look, there was a determination made.  This was the most
effective way to get more teachers vaccinated.  Already 30 states are
already doing it on their own, but this was a way to ensure that
teachers in states across the country can go to their local pharmacy and
do it.   
  
I can’t tell you how many ideas are considered before an idea is
finalized, so I’m not going to speak to that; I’m not sure anyone here
would.  But this was the idea that was determined to be most
operationally effective.  So that’s — that’s hence why we’re doing it.  
  
Q    There’s plenty of holdout states.  If they continue to almost
counterman the President’s orders, what are your options?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Again, I don’t think we’re there.  Thirty states — it was 24
as of about a week or so ago, so an additional six states have
prioritized teachers.  We’re hopeful and we’re encouraging, directing —
whatever you want to call it — more to do exactly the same.  And the
President will make this case directly to governors.  Our health and
COVID team will make this case directly.   
  
And, of course, we’re working through this federal program where we
distribute the vaccine supply to these pharmacies.  So that will
continue regardless.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Given the administration’s commitment to repairing foreign
relations, when can we expect to see nominations for important
ambassadorships like the United Kingdom’s?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, this is a popular question, including from some people
who want to be ambassadors, which won’t surprise you.  (Laughter.)   
  
I will say — you know, I think historically — I know we feel like we’ve
all been here for quite some time — but during the Obama administration,
many of these were done during March — in March.  Obviously there’s been
a lot on the President’s agenda.  I don’t have any preview for you in
terms of the timeline of when he’ll put forward nominees.  And obviously
that would be done in conjunction and in coordination with the Secretary
of State.  So I don’t have a timeline for you.  I just wanted to convey
that historically the timeline has been around the spring.  
  
Q    Thank you.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  
  
Go ahead, in the back.  
  
Q    Thanks, Jen.  A couple on the economic (inaudible) and then one on
immigration.  When you look at the American Rescue Plan, $350 billion
for state and local governments, but when you hear from economists all
across — for example, Moody’s says that number should be $100- to $150
billion.  AEI says strong case for $100- to $200 billion.  Center on
Budget and Policy Priorities says $225 billion.  That’s a big gap to get
up to $350 billion.  So can you explain why the White House believes
that should be the number, and why not bring it down and/or maybe use
the money elsewhere?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, first, to throw some data back atcha: 1.3 million
state and local government jobs have been lost since the beginning of
the pandemic.  The people we’re listening to are the 400 mayors,
Democrats and Republicans, who have conveyed clearly that they need
assistance, they need funding to ensure that they can keep cops on the
beat, they can keep firefighters employed, and they can keep state and
local governments functioning.  We’re still at the height of a
pandemic.  The pandemic has not concluded at this point in time.  And
they’re also looking ahead to what their needs are down the road.  
  
We’ve also — you know, we proposed, as you said, $360 billion for this
package, and we also — and let me add one more statistic, sorry. 
Thirty-two states have revenue shortfalls compared to last year.   
  
So it’s clear there is a need out there, and we are not going to recover
from this pandemic tomorrow.  The economic recession will not be
recovered tomorrow.  And so it’s important that we listen to and work
with the state and local leaders on what their needs are on the
ground.  
  
I’ll also note that while we proposed $300 billion — more than $300
billion in our package, there was a proposal of zero from Republicans. 
So there wasn’t really a negotiation on this.  This is — we were meeting
the needs and the requests of state and local leaders, consistent with
what we’ve seen statistically about the job losses.  
  
Q    And on the issue of direct payments, I know you said you can’t
predict the future, obviously.  Jen had asked about the need potentially
for another check down the line.  But there was a letter that was sent
yesterday from 10 — I believe the number was — Democratic senators
asking for recurring payments; not one-offs, but recurring.  Does
President Biden support the idea of recurring direct payments at this
time?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Payments as a part of the rescue plan, or as kind of a —  
  
Q    The (inaudible) Build Back Better.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Oh, as a future?  
  
Q    Whenever the Build Back Better plan is released, they calling on
recurring payments being a part of that.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I will say there are a lot of ideas that will be put
forward.  The President has already started engaging and talking with
members and outside groups and stakeholders about what they’d like to
see moving forward.  
  
But I — I’m not going to get ahead of the agenda at this point in
time.  
  
Q    And on immigration: Since January 25th, at least 108 migrants have
tested positive for COVID-19 after crossing the border.  In some cases,
they’ve been allowed to hop on buses down for points across the
country.   
  
A couple of questions on this.  One, what is the administration doing to
make sure that this doesn’t contribute to spreading of COVID-19?  And is
the administration looking at maybe creating shelters for people who
test positive?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, first, the majority of people who come to the border —
families, adults — are turned away, and that remains the case because we
are still abiding by Title 42 at the border.   
  
In the narrow and limited instances in which migrants are placed in
alternatives to detention while their cases are being adjudicated,
testing for COVID-19 is done at the state and local level and with help
of NGOs and local governments.  So that is a consistent part of our
approach and what we do as migrants come in at the border.   
  
Of course, our guidance, regardless of status, is — testing positive for
COVID-19 or experiencing COVID-like symptoms — is to isolate, continue
to social distance, wear a mask, and seek medical attention if needed. 
But as a part of our process, individuals are — who are adjudicated are
tested for COVID-19, in partnership with state and local authorities.  
  
Q    There’s no need to isolate to make sure that they don’t —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, certainly isolation — or isolating, quarantining is a
part of — is a part of what our recommended health guidelines are, and
certainly part of what happens at the border when there are symptoms
that are displayed and when testing is done.  
  
Go ahead.  Oh, sorry.  I didn’t go to April.  I’m sorry.  Go ahead,
April.  
  
Q    Yeah, but I had a question from the —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  She just hasn’t had a question yet.  I’m — I’ll come right
back to you.  I promise.   
  
Q    April hasn’t had a question yet.  
  
Q    Okay.   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Hi, Jen.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  April, you’ve been so quiet back there.  I apologize.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Okay.  Well, you may not think after I ask all of these
questions.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Oh.  Go ahead.  Go ahead.  We’re not in a rush.  
  
Q    I have a couple of questions —  
  
MS. PSAKI:   Okay.  
  
Q    — on several different topics.  Going back to the issue of
vaccines, when is this administration expecting herd immunity?  And I
ask that because there are still populations in this nation that are not
running to this vaccine, even though you’re — or these vaccines, even
though you’re flooding the zone.  Is there a concern that herd immunity
will not be reached at the time that you are hoping for because of this
mindset in certain communities?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I’m not going to make a prediction about herd
immunity, but I will say that you’re touching on an incredibly important
point in that, now that we’re at the stage where the President just
announced we’ll have enough vaccines to vaccinate all of the American
people by the end of May, we will eventually reach a point — to your
point, April — where we will have more vaccines than people who want
vaccines.  That feels hard to believe at this moment in time, but we are
focused on — we are concerned about the level of vaccine hesitancy in a
range of communities across the country.  And certainly communities of
color are communities where there’s been a higher level of vaccine
hesitancy.   
  
Now, we are working to take a number of steps.  Of course, we have an
Equity Task Force, led by Dr. Marcella Nunez-Smith, to look at this
closely, take the appropriate steps, do planning — you know, plan
communication, plan outreach that is going to be effective.  But this
will be a focus.  We are, of course, concerned because we know we will
reach a point, which we’re already seeing — but we’ll reach a point
where we have more vaccines then we have people who want to take them.  
  
Q    So — but at some point, understanding, if you listen to the science
— if you have a majority in one community taking it and not a majority
in another, it’s all for not.  We won’t reach herd immunity, and we
still have a problem.  Is there still a concern?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  There’s absolutely a concern about swaths of the population
not taking — not feeling that the vaccine is safe or effective, and
certainly relying on a problematic and tragic history that has
contributed to vaccine hesitancy.   
  
So this is a significant concern of ours and one that we’ve been focused
on from the beginning, and we will be focused on direct outreach, direct
communications, and a range of efforts to help address this and reaffirm
how safe and effective the vaccines are.  
  
Q    H1 and S1 — D.C. statehood and statehood for Puerto Rico: Where
does the President stand on statehood and the reality for statehood for
D.C. and Puerto Rico this year, particularly when it comes to Puerto
Rico?  Because there seems to be a split in the Latino delegation on the
Hill about statehood or some other type of process for Puerto Rico. 
Where does the President stand?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  The President supports a referendum in Puerto Rico for the
people of Puerto Rico deciding the path forward.  On D.C. statehood, he
certainly supports and has long supported — (Briefing Room door opens) —
hello — (laughs) — has long supported — it’s nice, fresh air — has long
supported D.C. statehood.  I don’t have a deadline or a timeline on
that, April, but it’s something he continues to support.  
  
Q    And lastly, on reparations — the issue of reparations and the
commission.  We understand that President Biden does support the
commission.  But digging into the weeds of this, the commission has
before it a chance to either give descendants of slaves —  
  
(Interruption by member of the media.)  
  
MS. PSAKI:  It’s quite a day.  (Laughter.)  
  
PHOTOJOURNALIST:  We’re all going home.  Sorry!   
  
(Laughter.)  
  
Q    Okay, so starting over again.  So —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Go ahead, April.  (Laughter.)  
  
Q    So, basically, does the President support the idea of giving
descendants of enslaved Africans financial payouts, which some have said
that it would indeed bankrupt the nation if that were to happen?  Or
does the President support the idea of funding areas that are still
disproportionately negative for the black community, like housing,
closing the wealth gap through job issues or initiatives, education, et
cetera?  Which way does the President fall?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I don’t think he sees it as either/or.  He supports —
as I think you know, April, but others may not be as familiar with — a
study of reparations and studying the continued impacts of slavery.  And
that’s something, of course, that’s a part of this package.   
  
At the same time, he understands that we don’t need a study to take
action right now on systemic racism occurring today.  And that’s why
he’s taken a number of steps, even in the last six weeks since he took
office, launching a whole-of-government initiative to advance racial
equity; reversed President Trump’s executive order excluding
undocumented immigrants from reapportionment count; preserved and
fortified protections for DREAMers; reversed the Muslim ban; repealed
Trump interior enforcement executive order.   
  
And he is looking for, in every instance where he’s implementing
policies — whether it’s on housing, whether it’s on addressing economic
disparities, getting assistance to small businesses — ways to address
the long and historic racial disparities that we’re seeing across
government programs and across our country.  
  
So he’s not waiting to implement new policies.  He is instituting an
across-government — an across-the-federal-government approach to
addressing racial inequality.  
  
Q    Does he believe a financial payout will close the wealth gap and
the income gap in the black communities (inaudible)?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I think he wants to see the outcome of the study.  And he
supports the study of reparations and what the impact would be.  
  
Q    Thank you, Jen.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, let me get just to the last — our last friend back
here, and then we’ll — yeah.  
  
Q    Thank you.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  No, thank you.  Thank you.  We wanted to — we’ll blame Doug
Mills.  Go ahead. (Laughter.)  Just kidding.  Go ahead.  We can’t blame
him for anything.  Go ahead.  (Laughter.)  
  
Q    Two questions, if I may — one international, one in-house
question.  International: Yesterday, North and South Korea actually
stood together to denounce a Harvard University professor’s article.  He
claims that the —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  To renounce it?  
  
Q    Denounce.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Denounce it.  Denounce it.  Okay.  
  
Q    Yes.  He claimed that the “comfort women” during the World War Two
were actually not sex slaves, but voluntary prostitutes.  Many Asians
and Koreans are furious, especially that the top university in America
supports the publication of article under the name of academic freedom. 
So will the U.S. (inaudible) increase the tension between South Korea
and Japan?  What’s the Biden administration’s stance on this?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I’m happy to take a closer look at it.  I haven’t seen the
article or the denouncements, but I will talk to our national security
team and see what we have for you, and we can get back to you
directly.  
  
Q    In the future, will there be any, like, trilateral meeting between
the U.S. and Japan and Korea in the near future (inaudible)?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I’m sure at some point there will be.  I have nothing to
preview for you, but of course, Japan and South Korea are key components
in addressing the threats in — on the Korean Peninsula.  
  
Q    And another issue is in-house issue.  We know today there’s new
COVID test rules have been implemented in the White House.  Some
suggested that if the White House can provide vaccinations to the White
House journalists and cameramen, this daily test issue could be
resolved.  Does the White House have any plan to do so?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, let me first say the good news is that we now have
enough vaccines to — we will by the end of May — to ensure every
American is vaccinated — well, a little bit after that, once they are
all in place — including journalists, of course.  And many of you may be
eligible before that.   
  
We put in place new policies.  One, our objective is to protect all of
you, to protect the people in the White House, and to abide by
COVID-safe protocols.  As you know — and just for full clarity — anyone
who is in the briefing room as a part of the briefing room pool is not
paying — is not charged for tests.  We cover those tests.  Anyone who is
in the pool for the President, we cover the cost of those tests.  And
same for the Vice President.   
  
And our objective is certainly bringing an end to the pandemic and
having this room full again without masks, and doing that in a safe
way.  So we’ll look forward to that.   
  
Thank you so much, everyone.  Have a good afternoon.  Or I’ll see many
of you.  
  
Q    Can I follow up on Puerto Rico real quick?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Oh, okay.  Sure.   
  
Q    Sorry.  Sorry.  This is just —   
  
MS. PSAKI:  It’s okay.  
  
Q    It’s “niche-y,” but —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  It’s fine.  We like “niche-y” in here.   
  
Q    Well, the Department of Justice is — has, under Trump, appealed a
decision that would have allowed Puerto Ricans to receive supplemental
Social Security income.  That — there’s been a huge push, including from
the Archbishops of Puerto Rico, for the Justice Department to drop that
case.  That has not yet occurred.  And now the Supreme Court has
scheduled this case.  Can you tell us what your thinking is on that?  It
would free up $3.4 billion worth of funding for Puerto Ricans, whom the
President repeatedly said he, you know, supports getting more aid to
people in Puerto Rico.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  He did.  He did.  And the President has been clear, and he
was on the campaign, that he and his administration will focus on the
needs of Puerto Rico and its residents.   
  
We have been working — we have worked with Congress to address parity in
two critical areas via the American Rescue Plan, representing an initial
step forward in the administration’s Puerto Rico policy.  In the plan,
Puerto Rico will have parity in terms of the child tax credit, which I
know is of big concern, and the earned income tax credit, which have
been key efforts to reduce poverty and support working families.  
  
We also support legislation to ensure residents of Puerto Rico have
access to Social Security benefits, as you noted, and we’ll work with
Congress on that.  They’re, of course, separately — just for clarity —
as Department of Justice — the Department of Justice would, of course,
be able to speak to more effectively than we would on the Supreme Court
case.  But as a policy, we are working to address the parity issues.   
  
Thank you, everyone.  
  
1:30 P.M. EST
