---
tags: press-briefings
date: '2021-03-31'
modified_time: 2021-03-31 19:23:33-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/03/31/press-briefing-by-white-house-covid-19-response-team-and-public-health-officials-22/
published_time: 2021-03-31 13:39:29-04:00
title: "Press Briefing by White\_House COVID-\u206019 Response Team and Public Health\_\
  Officials"
---
 
Via Teleconference

11:19 A.M. EDT  
  
ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Good morning, and thank you for joining
us.  I’d like to begin this briefing where the President left off in his
remarks on Monday afternoon.  As he said, we are in a “life-and-death
race” against the virus.  We are facing an accelerating threat.  And
faced with an accelerating threat, this administration is accelerating
our response even further.   
  
The most powerful way to do this is to accelerate the pace of
vaccinations.  Starting on day one, we began working to accelerate and
increase vaccine purchases and manufacturing to have enough vaccines to
vaccinate all adults by the end of July.  We then accelerated that to
have enough vaccine for all adults by the end of May.  The President
then directed states to open up vaccinations to all adults by the
beginning of May.   
  
But as we have seen this virus continue to spread, President Biden has
ordered that his national vaccination effort accelerate to the next
level.  Within three weeks — by April 19th — 90 percent of adult
Americans will be eligible for a vaccine and 90 percent of Americans
will live within five miles of a vaccination site.   
  
Already, there are more than 50,000 vaccine sites across the country. 
Within three weeks, there will be about 70,000 locations as we nearly
double the number of pharmacies that are vaccinating Americans.  More
Americans will get more appointments in more convenient locations.   
  
The President also committed to opening at least 12 more federally run
mass vaccination sites.  And today, we’re announcing three new sites
that will open next week, in addition to the two we announced on Monday
in St. Louis, Missouri, and Gary, Indiana.  
  
The first is in Memphis, Tennessee, at the Pipkin Building at the
Liberty Bowl Memorial Stadium.  The second is in Milwaukee, Wisconsin,
at the Wisconsin Center.  And the third is in Greenbelt, Maryland, at
the Greenbelt Metro Station.   
  
Each of these sites is the first federally run mass vaccination site in
its respective state.  And each is capable of administering 3,000
vaccinations a day.   
  
I can also report that previously announced sites in Massachusetts, New
Jersey, Virginia, and Washington are now all open and fully
operational.   
  
In total, we’ve opened 25 mass vaccination sites, which have a combined
capacity to administer over 95,000 shots per day.  These sites are run
by the federal government in close partnership with state and local
officials, and they’re part of our work to equitably distribute vaccines
and reach communities that have been hurt the most by the pandemic.   
  
Through these mass vaccination sites, we have administered more than 2
million shots in some of America’s most at-risk and underserved
communities.  More than 60 percent have been administered to racial
minorities.   
  
All of these efforts are on behalf of one thing: saving lives.  We need
to keep case numbers down so we can save lives and give people the
chance to get vaccinated in April, May, and June so we can enter the
summer on the strongest footing possible.   
  
Now, in the weeks ahead that it will take to get everyone vaccinated,
for all of this effort, we need a simple thing of every governor, mayor,
and local leader — and that is to heed what the President is asking in
return: simply to maintain or to reinstate mask mandates.  And we need
every American to do their part.  
  
Together, we can win this race and save lives.  If we’re acting on our
own, we will lose even more people.  If we’re acting together, we can
defeat this.   
  
And with that, I’m going to turn it over to Dr. Walensky and then to Dr.
Fauci for some important updates from them.  
  
DR. WALENSKY:  Thank you so much, Andy.  I’m glad to be back with all of
you today.  As per usual, I will begin with an overview of the state of
the pandemic.  
  
CDC’s most recent data show that the seven-day average of new cases is
slightly less than 62,000 cases per day.  We continue to see an
increase, and this is almost a 12 percent increase from the seven-day
period prior.   
  
Hospitalizations also continue to increase.  The most recent seven-day
average — about 4,900 admissions per day — is up from 4,600 admissions
per day in the prior seven-day period.  
  
And the seven-day average of deaths remains slightly above 900 deaths
per day.  
  
As I said on Monday, this is a critical moment in our fight against the
pandemic.  As we see increases in cases, we can’t afford to let our
guard down.  We are so close — so very close to getting back to the
everyday activities we all miss so much, but we’re not quite there
yet.  
  
We need to keep taking the mitigation measures, like wearing a mask and
social distancing, as we continue to get more and more Americans
vaccinated every single day.  
  
Since early in the pandemic, COVID-19 has disproportionately affected
certain groups in the United States, particularly Blacks, Hispanic and
Latino, and Native American communities.  
  
In mid-February, CDC released its estimates of life expectancy in the
United States in the first six months of 2020, which showed a profound
impact on communities of color with a drop in life expectancy of 2.7
years among non-Hispanic Blacks and 1.9 years among Hispanics — historic
and tragic declines in these populations.  
  
Today, CDC is releasing an MMWR that provides additional detail on
provisional mortality in the United States for all of 2020 with a focus
on deaths associated with COVID-19.   
  
 In 2020, about 3.3 million deaths occurred in the United States
overall.  This represents a 16 percent increase in deaths from 2019. 
COVID ranked as the third leading cause of underlying death — underlying
cause of death after heart disease and cancer, with approximately
378,000 COVID-19 deaths, accounting for roughly 11 percent of all deaths
in the United States in 2020.   
  
COVID-19 deaths were far — were highest for older adults and males, and
were higher, as we previously saw, among American Indian and Alaska
Natives, Hispanics, non-Black — non-Hispanic Blacks, and non-Hispanic
Native Hawaiian and Pacific Islander persons compared to non-Hispanic
whites.  In fact, among nearly all of these ethnic and racial minority
groups, the COVID-19-related deaths were more than double the death rate
of non-Hispanic white persons.  
  
Sadly, based on the current state of the pandemic, these impacts have
remained in 2021, where we continue to see that communities of color
account for an outsize portion of these deaths.  The data should serve,
again, as a catalyst for each of us to continue to do our part to drive
down cases and reduce the spread of COVID-19 and get people vaccinated
as quickly as possible.  
  
I know this is not easy and so many of us are frustrated with the
disruption this pandemic has had on our everyday lives, but we can do
this as a nation working together.  There is reason to be hopeful
because we now know so much more about this virus — how to stop its
spread; and we now have three historic, safe, and effective vaccines
that we didn’t have just four months ago; and we are distributing
billions of dollars into communities disproportionately affected to help
mount the most aggressive, equitable vaccination campaign of modern
times.  
  
Millions more people are getting vaccinated every single day.  This
week, we will cross the 100 million people who have received at least
one dose of the COVID-19 vaccine in the United States — a remarkable
feat in such a short period of time. Further, over 70 percent of people
over age 65, our most vulnerable group, have received at least one
vaccine dose.  
  
I’m proud the CDC stands with others leading the way to scale up our
national vaccine effort as quickly as possible.  As the President
mentioned on Monday afternoon, we are working quickly to expand our
Federal Retail Pharmacy Program from about 17,000 to 40,000 stores in
communities across this nation to help everyone have ready access to
vaccines.   
  
With this expansion and additional efforts in partnership with FEMA and
states across the country, we will be able to reach the administration’s
goal of making sure that 90 percent of Americans will be within five
miles of a vaccination site by April 19th.  And we recognize that five
miles is still too far for many Americans, and that is why we are
activating resources, such as mobile units and clinics, to those
communities where this is the case to ensure they can get access to
vaccinations.  
  
CDC is also excited to partner with the Administration for Community
Living to support their efforts to get older, at-risk adults and those
with disabilities vaccinated.  This is helping to provide critical
access to COVID-19 vaccines to these individuals.   
  
Finally, I want to briefly share that, today, CDC is updating COVID-19
guidance for adult day service centers.  These centers provide important
social and health services to community-dwelling adults aged 65 and
older, as well as to adults of any age living with disability.  We know
these populations are at high risk for severe COVID-19 disease, and this
guidance will help center administrators and staff protect themselves
and adults receiving their services by promoting and engaging in
preventive behaviors that reduce COVID-19 spread and help maintain
healthy operations and environments of these facilities.  You can find
the updated guidance and resources for center administrators and staff
on the CDC website.  
  
It’s up to us.  It’s up to all of us to be part of this solution.  Thank
you for hanging in there with us for just a little bit longer and for
doing your part to help others.   
  
Thank you.  I’ll now turn things over to Dr. Fauci.  
  
DR. FAUCI:  Thank you very much, Dr. Walensky.  I’d like to spend the
next couple of minutes talking to you about the subject of the potential
role of vaccinations that we are currently giving in handling the
variants that we see emerging in our society.   
  
Can I have the first slide?  
  
This is a slide which schematically diagrams the immune response to
SARS-CoV-2.  On the left-hand part of the slide is what happens when you
get acutely infected.  Multiple components of the immune response are
operative: antibodies, but also something we don’t pay much attention
to, and that is the cell-mediated response of what’s called CD4 and CD8
cells.  On the right-hand part of the slide, is what happens when you
recover, which is the state you try to mimic when you vaccinate an
individual.  In other words, you want to induce immune memory in the
form of antibodies — CD4- and CD8-positive T cells, or what we call
“cell-mediated immunity” — as well as memory B cells.  
  
Okay.  Next slide.  
  
So what I want to talk about in the next two minutes or three minutes is
that the immune protection against COVID-19 variants, which is of
obvious concern to us — when you are vaccinated against a wild-type
viral strain, namely the common virus in society, there are two
potential mechanisms that protect you against variants:

One, a high titer of antibody that, although it’s specific against the
wild-type strain, it is high enough that there’s a spillover effect
against the variant.

And the second, which I’d like to emphasize right now, is the T-cell
response that although it’s specific against the wild-type strain, there
is a considerable degree of cross-reactivity against the range of
variants, which is characteristic of T cells.

This slide here shows the high level of antibody against a prime and a
boost of the Pfizer vaccine.  The point I was making a moment ago is
that that level is so high that even when you diminish it by multifold,
which is the case with the variant, you still have a good degree of
protection. 

Next slide. 

But the other thing that we want to concentrate on is that now we’re
learning more and more that these CD4 and CD8 cells are very important
in that they cross-react against certain viral variants and they last
for a long time.

Next slide.

This slide is in individuals who are actually infected, showing that
immune memory response lasts for several months, but it also includes —
besides antibody — what I mentioned: the very important T cells, which
can help against the variants.

Next slide.

When you look at vaccinated individuals, as shown on this slide, you get
T-cell memory response, again, against the variants — not only against
the virus to which you were vaccinated against, but as shown in this
report, against a number of variants.

Next slide.

And finally, in a paper that came out just yesterday, it was shown very
clearly that in individuals who recover from infection, if you look at
their CD4 and CD8 positive T cells, they recognize virtually all of the
variants of concern.

So on the final slide — next slide — getting back to what I said in the
beginning, we are seeing now immune protection against COVID-19 variants
when individuals are vaccinated against the wild-type strain on two
mechanisms: the antibody response that has a spillover effect, as well
as the cross-reactivity.

The bottom-line message to everyone is: Why it’s so important to get
vaccinated?  Because vaccination is not only going to protect us against
the wild type, but it has the potential, to a greater or lesser degree,
to also protect against a range of variants.

So when vaccination becomes available, get vaccinated.

Back to you, Andy.

ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Thank you.  That’s great news. 

All right, let’s take questions.

MODERATOR:  First question will go to Tamara Keith at NPR.

Q    Thank you.  Thank you so much for taking my question.

What we’re wondering about at NPR today is whether there might at some
point — and I don’t know that this point is yet — but whether at some
point there might be a shift in the allocation of vaccine doses based on
demand rather than simply on population size.  If there are, you know,
pockets of the country where demand is a little bit more slack and there
are other areas where there’s a lot of demand and not enough supply,
whether there might be a calibration that you guys are now starting to
consider.

ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  That’s a great question, Tamara.  And
without signaling anything specific, I want to answer that question at a
high level.  I think you’re exactly right: We’re going to go through
stages, as we vaccinate higher and higher portions of populations, where
it will make sense for us to continue to watch where vaccines are
needed, how vaccines are distributed, the best way to reach more
people.  And we will be in a situation, unlike one we’re familiar with
over the last couple of months, where we have an abundance of vaccines. 

So I might not think of it as much as shifting as much as I might think
of making sure that we’re putting enough vaccines in all the places that
they’re needed, including doctors’ offices, including regions —
including places that might have been inefficient to do at the beginning
while we had a surplus.  

So it is absolutely how you should be thinking about our approach going
forward.

Next question.

MODERATOR:  Stephanie Baker at Bloomberg.

Q    Thank you.  Yes, this is a question for Dr. Fauci.  Can you explain
why you decided to issue a public statement questioning the AstraZeneca
interim results?  And do you think that their updated results will
enable them to secure emergency use authorization?  Because I think many
countries around the world that are relying on the AstraZeneca vaccine
will be taking their lead from the FDA, even if Astra doses are not used
in the U.S. 

And then, just another quick question: When do you expect the UK variant
to become the dominant variant in the U.S.?  Thank you.  
  
MR. FAUCI:  Well, with regard to your first question, I believe you’re
referring to the NIH statement that followed the letter that was sent by
the DSMB to AZ, as well as with a copy to me.  I did not have a
statement questioning their data at all.  I urged them to make sure that
their data was up to date in the sense that the DSMB had written to them
a rather harsh note saying they did not believe that the data that was
in their press conference was the most recent, updated data.  
  
The only statement that we made in our release was to encourage them to
work closely with the DSMB to make sure that the data that they put into
their press release is the most update and accurate data.   
  
So I didn’t question their data at all.  I just urged them to work
closely with the DSMB.   
  
And I’m sorry, your second question?  
  
DR. WALENSKY:  I think the second question was related to variants, and
I can just sort of fill you in.  B117, we know from our most recent
data, is about 26 percent of circulating virus right now.  We are
looking at it by region.  It varies in region from 4 to 36 — 35
percent.  And so we’re watching this very carefully.  But it is starting
to become the predominant variant in many U.S. regions.  
  
ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  I think your final question is — was
asking us to consider whether the FDA was going to grant an EUA. 
Obviously we’re going to leave that to the FDA, but I’m wondering if,
Dr. Fauci, you have any additional comments, given the data that you
have seen relative to the AstraZeneca release.  
  
DR. FAUCI:  Well, the data that they made public, most recently,
indicates to me that this is a good vaccine that is going to have a very
important role in the global response to this outbreak.  
  
ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Thank you.  Next question.  
  
MODERATOR:  Next we’ll go Lauren Clason at CQ Roll Call.  
  
Q    Hi, thank you.  Yes, two questions.  First, given the rise in cases
in a number of schools in states that are reopening, how important is it
to have a national testing strategy?  And when should we expect to see
that?  
  
And then, secondly, are you anticipating any medical supply chain
disruptions stemming from the backlog in the Suez Canal?  Thank you.  
  
ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Okay, the first question on schools and
testing — Dr. Walensky, do you want to provide some input into that?  
  
DR. WALENSKY:  Yeah.  What I will say is we’re watching obviously the
cases by jurisdiction.  Our school-based reopening strategy does look at
community transmission and is guided based on community transmission.  
  
We have five mitigation strategies and, of course, ancillary mitigation
strategies related to teacher vaccination and testing, as you note.  And
we’re working closely with the Department of Ed and others to input — to
put forward a national testing strategy for schools.  
  
ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  In terms of your question about medical
supplies in the Suez Canal, we’ll get back to you if we hear
differently, but none that I’m aware of, and we didn’t have to send
people over to dig the ship out.  So we were able to get people — to
keep them focused on getting people vaccinated.  
  
Let’s go to the next question.  
  
By the way, let me just add one thing about the schools and the testing
before I forget.  I should remind everybody that last week we announced
$10 billion in new testing dedicated directly to schools.  So we now
have the resources, thanks to the Congress and the bill signed by the
President, to be able to vaccinate children on a weekly basis across the
country.   
  
So, that testing capability is there, the testing resource centers are
developed and available, and the testing is quite there.  So, in
addition to what Dr. Walensky said.  
  
Next question.  
  
MODERATOR:  Sharon LaFraniere, New York Times.  
  
Q    Thank you for taking my question.  I wanted to follow up with Dr.
Fauci.  What do you think, Dr. Fauci, about the decision yesterday by
the German regulators to restrict the use of AstraZeneca’s vaccine in
people under 30 because of a rise in the number of cases of unusual
blood clots?  I think it’s sinus vein thrombosis.  Does that give you
fresh concern?  
  
DR. FAUCI:  Well, you know, I only have to go back to the European
Medicines Agency, the EMA, which again have made the statement that it
is their opinion that the clotting issues that we’re seeing with the AZ,
the frequency of that was no more than in the general population not
associated with vaccines.  
  
So, I mean, I don’t have any further opinion on that except to say that
you’re talking about a situation in the European Union, and the
regulatory agency that’s responsible for what goes on in the European
Union feels that that is not an issue; that it is, in fact, the same
level as you’d expect in the general population.  
  
ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  And let me just pile on to assure the
public of following: The FDA will conduct a completely thorough analysis
of the application that’s submitted in all the data from AstraZeneca,
and Dr. Fauci, as he always does, will help the public interpret
whatever comes out of the FDA when they review that data.   
  
So people should be very assured that we have the best regulatory bodies
who study these matters in the world — will be looking at this data. 
And the best scientists in the world will help people understand
whatever comes out of that.  So I think we should wait until we see what
happens with that process before anybody jumps to conclusions.   
  
Next question.  
  
MODERATOR:  Jeremy Diamond, CNN.  
  
ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Should we go to another question,
Kevin?  
  
MODERATOR:  We’ll go to another question.  
  
Q    Hey.  It wasn’t letting me unmute, but it just did.  Can you hear
me?  
  
ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Yes, Jeremy.  
  
Q    Okay, thank you.  So two questions.  First of all, you said that
you expected the B117 variant to be dominant in the U.S. by the end of
March, early April.  Is it now the dominant strain?  And how much of the
increasing cases do you attribute to that variant?   
  
And then, secondly, we’ve heard a lot from you about the importance of
governors keeping or reinstating mask mandates, but several of the
states experiencing the worst surges haven’t done away with their mask
mandates; instead, it’s been loosening of other restrictions like indoor
dining and gathering.   
  
So my question is: What are you telling states about which restrictions
they should be implementing, and why haven’t you published uniform
gating criteria to lay out a roadmap that states should be following? 
Thank you.  
  
ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Great.  Dr. Walensky, do you want to take
those?  
  
DR. WALENSKY:  Yeah.  As I mentioned earlier, we now have B117 as 26
percent of the circulating variant across the United States, and it is
the predominant strain in at least five regions of the United States. 
So we’re starting to see it creep up.   
  
We do know it’s more transmissible — somewhere between 50 and 70 percent
more transmissible than the wild-type strain.  So to the extent that
people are not practicing those standard mitigation strategies, we do
think that more infections will result because of B117.  We believe that
the current mitigation strategies of masking and distancing would work
just as well against the current — the wild-type strain as they do the
B117 strain.   
  
I think we’ve been pretty clear with regard to our guidance and
strategies and setting specific strategies as to how people can remain
safe in these settings.  And we continue to articulate in these press
conferences and others the importance of masking, distancing, not
traveling, and decreasing crowds.  
  
ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Yeah, I mean, just — just to reiterate: 
I think, three times a week for the last 10 weeks, Dr. Walensky has made
the same points over and over and over again because repetition is good
and it’s important.  People want to know that they’re getting consistent
answers.  And consistently, three times a week for 10 weeks, Dr.
Walensky has said, “Wear a mask, avoid crowds, socially distance, and
don’t travel unless it’s absolutely essential.”  Three times a week for
10 weeks.  
  
We repeat that in all our conversations with governors.  We repeat that
in all our conversations with local officials.  And we’re not the only
one saying it; public health officials from departments and agencies
across the country make the same points.  So the people who are in
violation of that are choosing to do that.  They — they — they’re not
confused about where we stand.   
  
And to your point, Jeremy, that’s not the only factor that drives case
growth.  And even where there are mandates that everyone complies by
them — but there are — where the variants are at any given time is
obviously also another important factor.   
  
Next question.  
  
MODERATOR:  We’re going to squeeze one more question in.  We’ll go to
Nsikan Akpan at New York Public Radio.  
  
Q    Hi, thank you for taking my question.  So New York health — health
officials continue to voice concerns about the B1526 variant.  You know,
early studies suggest this variant was first detected last November, and
it now represents a large proportion of cases in New York City and New
Jersey, and namely in counties undergoing surges.    
  
Yet the CDC still classifies B1526 as a “variant of interest” rather
than a “variant of concern.”  I’m wondering what additional evidence is
needed before B1526 is classified as a variant of concern.  Does the CDC
plan to release state-by-state case numbers on the New York variant
rather than just a rough proportion?  And what’s the national tally of
B1526 cases so far?  
  
DR. WALENSKY:  Thank you for that question.  I’m going to have to get
back to you on the details on the national tally.   
  
What I will say is that there is an interagency group that looks at
these variants and classifies them, and it is that interagency group —
CDC is a part of that — that is actually looking at exactly this
question right now.

To view the COVID Press Briefing slides,
visit: [https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/03/COVID-Press-Briefing\_31March2021\_-for-transcript.pdf](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/03/COVID-Press-Briefing_31March2021_-for-transcript-1.pdf)
