---
category: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-05-21'
modified_time: 2021-05-22 10:29:05-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/05/21/remarks-by-president-biden-at-presentation-of-the-medal-of-honor-to-army-colonel-ralph-puckett-jr/
published_time: 2021-05-21 13:18:00-04:00
title: Remarks by President Biden at Presentation of the Medal of Honor to Army Colonel
  Ralph Puckett, Jr.
---
 
East Room

1:16 P.M. EDT  
  
PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Good afternoon everyone, and welcome to the White
House.  
  
President Moon, it’s a real honor to have you here participating in this
ceremony today.  The strength of the alliance between the United States,
the Republic of Korea was born out of the courage, determination,
sacrifice, and of the Korean troops fighting shoulder-to-shoulder with
American troops.  And having you here today is an important recognition
of all that our nation has achieved together — both of them — in the
decades since.   
  
And I’m joined by my wife, Jill, who’s as excited about this event as I
am; the Vice President and the Second Gentleman are here as well; our
Secretary of Defense; Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff; the
officials of the United States Army; as well as several members of
Congress — Representative Ferguson, Representative Crow, and Senator
Ernst.  
  
Because, today, we are hosting a true American hero and awarding an
honor that is long overdue — more than 70 years overdue.  Seventy years
ago, on a frozen hilltop deep in what is now North Korea, a young First
Lieutenant bravely, out of West Point — and barely out of West Point —
acted with bravery and — that earned him the Distinguished Service
Cross, the military’s second-highest honor.  
  
Today, after more than a decade of effort — including support from my
good friend, John McCain, God rest his soul, shortly before he passed
away — I’m incredibly proud to give Colonel Ralph Puckett’s act of valor
the full recognition they have always deserved.  
  
Colonel, I’m humbled to have you here today, I really am, along with
your loving family, and to award you the Medal of Honor.  And though I
understand that your first response to us hosting this event was to ask,
“Why all the fuss?”  (Laughter.)  
“Why all the fuss?  Can’t they just mail it to me?”  (Laughter.)  
I was going to make a joke about the Post Office, but I decided not to
do that.  (Laughter.)  Colonel Puckett, after 70 years, rather than mail
it to you, I would’ve walked it to you. (Laughter.)  You know, your
lifetime of service to our nation, I think, deserves a little bit of
fuss — a little bit of fuss.  
  
You know, when I called to tell the Colonel that I had approved this
award, I also spoke to Jeannie.  Excuse me for using your first name,
but that was my mom’s name too.  And you and my mom have the same eyes,
although you’re much — you’re too young to be my mom.  And they’ve been
married for 68 years.  We have something else in — we have one thing in
common: We both married way up.  (Laughter.)  We both married way up.  
  
COLONEL PUCKETT:  (Inaudible.)  
  
PRESIDENT BIDEN:  That’s exactly right.  (Laughs.)  Well, Jeannie and
Ralph actually met while he was recovering from his wounds.  They were
married two years to the day after the battle that we’re recognizing him
today for his bravery.   
  
By the way, you all can sit down, I think.  It just dawned on me you all
— (laughter).  I understand why you’re standing.  I’d be standing too,
but —  
  
Jeannie, it’s wonderful to welcome you, and I mean that from the bottom
of my heart.  Jill and I know firsthand that it’s not just the person
who wears the uniform who serves; military families make enormous
sacrifices for our nation.   
  
So let me add our thanks to you and your life of service as well.  I
told you earlier that expression by the poet, “They also stand who only
— they also serve who only stand and wait.” And you waited a long, long
time under many, many, many circumstances.   
  
And that goes to the entire family: Marty and her husband Anthony. 
Thomas and partner Chip — I don’t know if they’re here; I didn’t see
them yet.  And I know the other daughter, Jeannie, isn’t with us
anymore.  Just like I wish our son, Beau, were able to be here to see
this, he’s not with us either.  She’s here in spirit and represented by
her family.  And I know she’s always in your heart, Colonel, and never
leaves.   
  
I also want recognize Master Sergeant Merle Simpson who fought beside
the Colonel in Korea.  Where are you?  Stand up, sir.  Come on. 
(Applause.)  Who made the trip to Washington today to represent all of
their fallen brothers from the Eighth Army Ranger Company.  It’s an
honor — it’s an honor for all of their memories as well.   
  
Hill 205 was just 60 miles from the border with China.  And
then-Lieutenant Puckett and the Rangers had their orders to take that
hill.  
  
As a young officer, Lieutenant Puckett knew that something wasn’t quite
right.  The intelligence briefing indicated  
that there were 25,000 Chinese troops in the area, outnumbering U.S. and
Korean forces two to three — or excuse me, three to two.  And Lieutenant
Puckett though the numbers — thought the numbers for the attack didn’t
align with the basic military doctrine.   
  
The Lieutenant believed in the fundamentals.  It was how he trained his
men.  It was how he’d hand-picked them and chose them from the ranks of
cooks and clerks and mechanics to the first Ranger company since World
War II.  Physical conditioning.  Tactical training.  Working as a team. 
Get the basics right, then build from there.  
  
But Lieutenant Puckett also believed in being there for the fight.  He’d
volunteered for the Army Air Corps Enlisted Reserve  
to try to join — to fight in World War II.  He volunteered to go to
Korea, instead of the safer posting in Japan.  He volunteered for the
new Ranger company, and then he prayed, “Dear God, don’t let me get a
bunch of guys — good guys — killed,” when he was chosen to command that
company.  
  
So, on the morning of November 25, 1950, mounted on the decks of the
tanks, 51 of Puckett’s Rangers and 9 Korean enlisted soldiers set out to
take Hill 205.  
  
To make their charge, they had to cross about half mile  
of frozen rice paddies under fire.   
  
And when an enemy machine gunners slowed the Rangers’ advance, Puckett
risked his life by running across the area to draw fire that would
reveal where the location of the nest.  He did it once.  He did it
again.  It took three runs intentionally exposing himself to the enemy
to pick off the gunner.   
  
Of course, Colonel Puckett had developed a dangerous hobby, as he
recounted in his book, of challenging himself to run in front of
speeding cars when he was four years old.  (Laughter.)  So
self-preservation, it seemed, was never a primary concern of the
Colonel.  
  
When the Rangers finally reached the top of Hill 205, they found it
abandoned, but Puckett knew the fight wasn’t nearly over.  His men
established a defensive perimeter, and then went to coordinate the
artillery support he was sure they would need, and, while he was there,
to load up on ammunition and grenades — the basics.  
  
Shortly after he returned, the first onslaught began.  Mortars followed
by a ground assault from the entire Chinese battalion.  Puckett’s
Rangers were outnumbered almost ten to one.  
  
During the fight, Puckett abandoned the relative safety of his foxhole,
moving from man to man, encouraging them in the fight, checking that the
perimeter was holding.  
  
He took a grenade fragment in his left thigh, but Puckett refused to be
evacuated.  He was a Ranger.  He led his men from the front.  And over
the course of the next several hours, four more waves of assaults
came.  
  
Each time, Puckett made his rounds, passing out extra ammo  
and extra encouragement to rally his men.  
  
Each time, he was able to call in artillery support —  
sometimes “danger close” — to help break the advance of the Chinese
soldiers.   
  
Each time, the Rangers held the hill, pushing the enemy back — at times,
with hand-to-hand fighting.  About 2:30 a.m., after more than four hours
of near nonstop fighting, the sixth wave began.   
  
By this time, the Rangers had — many Rangers had been killed, and those
who are left were exhausted, outnumbered, and dangerly \[sic\] short of
amm- — dangerously short of ammunition and grenades.   
  
Lieutenant Puckett had sustained a second wound, this time in his left
shoulder.  He had distributed all the ammo to his men, keeping only
eight bullets and a bayonet for himself.   
  
For the last time, Puckett called in artillery support, only to be told
that the guns were supporting other besieged units.  
  
Then two mortar rounds landed directly in Puckett’s foxhole, tearing
through both his feet and his backside and his left arm and shoulder.   
  
Puckett’s Rangers had been overwhelmed, and he himself was badly
wounded.  He ordered one of his men who found him on the ground to leave
him behind.  But that’s not the Ranger creed.   
  
A Private ran for help, and soon two other Rangers charged back up the
hill, fighting off advancing Chinese soldiers, retrieving their
commander.   
  
They had to drag him down the hill, with Lieutenant Puckett reminding
them, and himself, that he could take the pain.  Quote, “I’m a
Ranger.”   
  
Before his men loaded him on a tank to evacuate, Lieutenant Puckett
called for one final barrage on Hill 205.  And the Eighth Army unloaded
artillery, while phosphorus on the Rangers’ former — and phosph- —
phosphorus on the Rangers’ former position.  They did not hold the hill,
but the Rangers extracted a high price.   
  
Korea is sometimes called the “Forgotten War.”  But those men who were
there under Lieutenant Puckett’s command — they’ll never forget his
bravery.  They never forget that he was right by their side throughout
every minute of it.   
  
And the people of the Republic of Korea haven’t forgotten, as evidenced
by the fact that the <s>Prime Minister</s> \[President\] of Korea is
here for this ceremony.  I doubt this has ever happened before — I can’t
say that for certain, but I doubt it’s happened before.  The Americans —
all Americans, like Ralph Puckett, joined in their fight.   
  
And while the enduring partnership between our two nations began in war,
it has flourished through peace.  It’s the — it’s a testament, I think,
to the extraordinary strength of our alliance.   
  
And we’re joined today, as I said, by President Moon, who — I can’t tell
you how happy I am he’s able to be here.  And if I may, I’d like to
invite President Moon to say a few words, if that is okay.   
  
President Moon.   
  
PRESIDENT MOON:  (As interpreted.)   Mr. President, thank you for your
words.  I find it truly meaningful to join the Medal of Honor
presentation ceremony for Colonel Ralph Puckett Jr., U.S. Army Retired,
upon President Biden’s invitation.   
  
I learned that I’m the first foreign leader to ever attend a ceremony of
such kind.  As President of the Republic of Korea, it is a great honor
and pleasure.  
  
Colonel Puckett is a true hero of the Korean War.  With extraordinary
valor and leadership, he completed missions until the very end,
defending Hill 205 and fighting many more battles requiring equal
valiance.  Without the sacrifice of veterans, including Colonel Puckett
and the Eighth Army Ranger Company, freedom and democracy we enjoy today
couldn’t have blossomed in Korea.  
  
Earlier, Colonel Puckett told me that when he was in Korea during the
Korean War, it was absolutely destroyed.  That was true, but from the
ashes of the Korean War, we rose, we came back.  And that was thanks to
the Korean War veterans who fought for Korea’s peace and freedom.   
  
And now, thanks to their support and efforts, we are enjoying
prosperity.  On behalf of the Korean people, I express deep gratitude
and respect to them.  Through the war veterans, the Korean people saw a
great soul of America that marches toward freedom and peace.  Their acts
of gallantry, sacrifice, and friendship will forever be remembered.  
  
The ROK-U.S. alliance, forged in blood of heroes, has become a linchpin
of peace and prosperity on the Korean Peninsula and beyond.  Colonel
Puckett and his fellow warriors are link that strongly binds Korea and
the U.S. together.  I pray that they stay with us in good health for a
long time.  
  
Thank you very much.  (Applause.)  
  
PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Well, thank you, President Moon.  Now, I’d be remiss
if I didn’t note that Ralph Puckett’s service to our nation did not end
in the Korean War.  
  
It did not end after his service in the Vietnam War, where he earned a
second Distinguished Service Cross, two Silver Stars, and two Bronze
Stars with “V” for Valor.  And add to that, during his service, five
Purple Hearts for injuries suffered in combat.  
  
And it didn’t end after his retirement from active duty or his induction
into the Ranger Hall of Fame.  It didn’t end there either, when he
served as the Honorary Colonel for the 75th Ranger Regiment, where he’d
help new generations of Rangers during their training missions.  
  
Even now — even now, you can find him out at Fort Benning, cheering on
the Rangers and letting them know he’s there with them.  
  
Over his career, he mentored countless young people.  He’s always
believed that all that mattered to be a Ranger was if you had the guts
and the brains.  That’s the standard he applied when he picked that
first Ranger unit in Korea.   
  
In an Army that had only recently been integrated, he chose with — his
team included a Black, a Latino, and Asian American members.  As my
mother would say, “God love you, man.”    
  
In 2015, during the Obama-Biden administration, when the military was
considering opening all combat positions to women, including Rangers,
Colonel Puckett let it be known that he thought women could meet the
standards, and said: “I want to see them do it.”  
  
He leads from the front.  He leads by example.  He leads with heart.  He
is a Ranger, and that’s how Rangers lead — that’s how you lead.   
  
So now, it is my great honor to ask for the citation to be read and to
award Colonel Puckett, Jr. — Ralph Puckett, Jr., with the Medal of
Honor.  
  
MILITARY AIDE:  The President of the United States of America,
authorized by Act of Congress, March 3rd, 1863, has awarded, in the name
of Congress, the Medal of Honor to First Lieutenant Ralph Puckett, Jr.,
United States Army, for conspicuous gallantry and intrepidity at the
risk of his life above and beyond the call of duty.  
  
First Lieutenant Ralph Puckett, Jr., distinguished himself by acts of
gallantry and intrepidity above and beyond the call of duty while
serving as the commander 8th U.S. Army Ranger Company during the period
of 25 November, 1950, through 26 November, 1950, in Korea.   
  
As his unit commenced a daylight attack on Hill 205, the enemy directed
mortar, machine gun, and small-arms fire against the advancing force. 
To obtain fire, First Lieutenant Puckett mounted the closest tank,
exposing himself to the deadly enemy fire.  Leaping from the tank, he
shouted words of encouragement to his men and began to lead the Rangers
in the attack.  
  
Almost immediately, enemy fire threatened the success of the attack by
pinning down one platoon.  Leaving the safety of his position, with full
knowledge of the danger, First Lieutenant Puckett intentionally ran
across an open area three times to draw enemy fire, thereby allowing the
Rangers to locate and destroy the enemy positions and to seize Hill
205.  
  
During the night, the enemy launched a counterattack that lasted four
hours.  Over the course of the counterattack, the Rangers were inspired
and motivated by the extraordinary leadership and courageous example
exhibited by First Lieutenant Puckett.  As a result, five human-wave
attacks by a battalion-strength enemy — enemy element were repulsed.   
  
During the first attack, First Lieutenant Puckett was wounded by grenade
fragments, but refused evacuation and continually directed artillery
support that decimated attacking enemy formations.  
  
He repeatedly abandoned positions of relative safety to make his way
from foxhole to foxhole, to check the company’s perimeter and to
distribute ammunition amongst the Rangers.  
  
When the enemy launched a sixth attack, it became clear to First
Lieutenant Puckett that the position was untenable due to the
unavailability of supporting artillery fire.  During this attack, two
enemy mortar rounds landed in his foxhole, inflicting grievous wounds,
which limited his mobility.  
  
Knowing his men were in a precarious situation, First Lieutenant Puckett
commanded the Rangers to leave him behind and evacuate the area. 
Feeling a sense of duty to aid him, the Rangers refused the order and
staged an effort to retrieve him from the foxhole while still under fire
from the enemy.  
  
Ultimately, the Rangers succeeded in retrieving First Lieutenant Puckett
and they moved to the bottom of the hill, where First Lieutenant Puckett
called for devastating artillery fire on the top of the enemy-controlled
hill.   
  
First Lieutenant Puckett’s extraordinary heroism and selflessness above
and beyond the call of duty were in keeping with the highest traditions
of military service and reflect great credit upon himself, his unit, and
the United States Army.  
  
(The Medal of Honor is presented.)  (Applause.)  
  
PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Let me invite the family up.  Come on, get the family
up here — all of you, including the grandkids.  
  
END            1:40 P.M. EDT
