---
category: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-05-28'
modified_time: 2021-05-28 18:44:30-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/05/28/remarks-by-president-biden-addressing-service-members-and-their-families/
published_time: 2021-05-28 18:44:29-04:00
title: Remarks by President Biden Addressing Service Members and their Families
---
 
Joint Base Langley-Eustis  
Hampton, Virginia

2:06 P.M. EDT  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  I’ll let you guys get comfortable.  (Laughs.)  
  
Colonel Ross — Clint, it’s wonderful to see you again.  Thank you.  When
our path last crossed, as Jill said, you were serving in the White
House.  And I never thought we’d be standing here today doing what we’re
doing today.   
  
And, Chief Master Sergeant Peterson, thank you, and to all members of
your team who helped put this visit together today. It — it means a lot
to Jill and me.   
  
When I was Vice President and — as Chairman of the Foreign Relations
Committee, we tried to visit almost every major military base in the
country, and as Vice President, around the world.  And you are — simply
stated, you are the backbone of the country.  You’re the backbone of the
country.   
  
And although our son Beau was the Attorney General of the state of
Delaware and had spent nine months in Kosovo trying to — as assistant
U.S. attorney — trying to set up their criminal justice system.  And I
might say, I’ve — I can do this with the military; I’m going to brag
about him a little bit — he’s the only foreigner to have a war memorial
erected to him in Kosovo, just below <s>Fort</s> \[Camp\] Bondsteel and
a highway — the first highway they built — named after him: the Joseph
R. “Beau” Biden Memorial Highway.  And he was a — he was proud as hell —
as hell of his work.   
  
But then he decided that — I kept on — he had contracted a — exposure to
a virus in — when he was in Kosovo and in Turkey as a civilian.  And he
came back with a problem.    
  
But he kept going to Walter Reed.  I couldn’t understand why he was —
they finally found — it’s called ankylosing spondylitis.  They finally
found a cure.  It prevented him from having what they call “bamboo
spine.”  But he kept going back.  I couldn’t understand why.  I thought
I knew why, but, Gov, he went back because he was trying to get an
exemption to be able to join the United States Army.  He was a sitting
attorney general, and as all my colleagues — the Governor and Bobby
Scott and Congresswoman — they all know is that when you do that — he
joined the National Guard.  And his unit deployed, and he wanted to
deploy to Iraq with them.  
  
So he literally had to give up his seat.  Temporarily, he could not have
any business done — as you National Guard folks know, you can’t do any
business with a state if in fact — you’re now federal property.  
  
And so, he gave up the seat and had the courage to appoint a fellow who
had been a Republican attorney general as attorney general while he —
while he went.  The proudest thing he ever did — proudest thing he ever
did.   
  
And he — he spent a year in Iraq.  And it was — it was one of the great
honors of his life to do it.  Won the Bronze Star, the Conspicuous
Service Medal, and other awards — like many of you have — but he never,
ever talked about it.  
  
I remember we had an event at the White House — I shouldn’t be talking
so much about my son, but I’m not going to apologize for it.   
  
We had an event for Iraqi veterans at the White House and the President,
without telling me and Jill, invited Beau to be there with another 75
soldiers and sailors and airmen.  But he wouldn’t wear any of his
decorations.  And General Odierno called him — he served under him — and
said, “Put them on now.”  Swear to God.  Walking out of the VP
Residence, he wouldn’t put them on until then.  That’s the first time I
ever saw the Bronze Star on him.  
  
But I’m just telling you that is — he’s like a lot of you.  You do your
duty.  You don’t expect anything for it except be a little — have — get
a little respect.  It deserves so much more.  You deserve so much
more.  
  
And, you know, I’m honored to be joined today by Governor Northam and by
two great representatives of the Commonwealth: Congresswoman Luria and
Congressman Scott.  And I want to thank — thank you for all that you do
to represent these service veterans, because they’re devoted to you; for
the family members, the caregivers, survivors who call Virginia home.  
  
I’m especially honored to share the stage with Brittney, and Jerdan, and
Nathan, and Margrit Katherine.  I love those barrettes in your hair,
man.  I tell you what — and look at her; she looks like she’s 19 years
old, sitting there with her — like a little lady with her legs crossed. 
(Laughter.)   
  
Brittney, you’re doing triple duty: as a veteran, a military spouse, and
a teacher.  And, kids, thank you for being there for your mom.   
  
I can remember all those times — and all of you remember, the spouses —
when your husband or wife are deployed.  Every morning, you wake up, you
say that little extra prayer while you’re drinking your coffee.  You
just spend a little more time wondering.  
  
And, you know, you only — you make up 1 percent of the population. 
You’re defending 99 percent of the rest of us.  And we owe you.  But you
do your job so gracefully.  You hardly ever say anything about what
you’re doing.   
  
But it matters.  It matters to your families — for that time we’re
sitting across from an empty chair at the kitchen table and the dining
room table; for those birthdays or Christmases or holidays when they’re
gone.  
  
You know, there’s a famous English poet who said, “They also serve who
only stand and wait.”  “Also serve who only stand and wait.”  
  
I know Major Beene — having been deployed to Afghanistan during the
pandemic has only made everything much harder during the pandemic.  I
want to thank you so much — your entire family’s service to our
country.  You’re all incredible.  You so underestimate how important you
are.  
  
And there’s nothing that Jill and I enjoy more than spending time with
our troops here and abroad — if you’re stationed here United States or
deployed around the world.  
  
I’ve been in and out of Iraq and Afghanistan over 20 — I think it’s 25
times.  And I’ve seen — I wish everyone could see what you do when
you’re there.  I wish they could see every day how you saddle up, how
you jump in that cockpit.  Just see — no, you’re just — just doing your
job.   
  
Not to mention all of the troops I’ve had the chance to visit in the
Middle East and Europe and the Indo-Pacific region.  We’ve traveled all
over.  Jill has traveled all over with me and her own visits to
servicemembers in Iraq.  I think she’s the only Second Lady ever to go
into the middle of a warzone, because she wanted to be there and see
you.  
  
I always want you to know — always — that the issues you and your family
are facing, we need to know how we can support you better.  I mean it
sincerely from the bottom of my heart: support you better.   
  
There’s reason for that.  I said, we Bidens are proud to have family in
the military.  And our son Beau’s service was — was among the
achievements, as I said, he was most proud of.  
  
My heart swelled to see him in uniform.   
  
When I went into Iraq — I was there for five times — when he was in
Baghdad.  (Laughs.)  And I remember, the first time I saw him, his name
was “Hunter.”  I said, “What in the hell happened?”  He said, “Dad, I
didn’t want anybody to do me any special favors because my Vice
President is my dad.”  He got permission to put a different nametag
on.  
  
I also remember what it was like to listen to him talk about the needs
that people had when he got back home.  About all the folks he served
with who came back with post-traumatic stress, and he was back being
attorney general, having to deal with that.  
  
But here’s the point: You do so much and you ask for so little.  You
know, our experience is a fraction of what so many of you and your
families have gone through — a family like Brittney and her kids. 
You’re the absolute best America has to offer: our heart, our honor,
your solid steel spine.   
  
So my message to all of you is quite simply: Thank you.  Thank you.  Not
“thank you for your service” — just thank you for who you are, because
it’s contagious.  Thank you for choosing a selfless service to your
country.  
  
I know we have mostly soldiers and airmen in attendance today, but there
can be a lot of friendly rivalries on a base.  Each branch has its own
proud, cherished traditions and culture.  I know how proud Langley is of
their premier 5th-generation F-22 Raptor Wing.  Oh, God, I’d love to go
up in one of those.   
  
I asked, “I’m your Commander-in-Chief.  Why the hell can’t I command you
let me go up in one?”  But, you know, they won’t let me do that.  
  
And Fort Eustis hosts one of Army’s busiest airfields, which is led by
the Air Force, primarily used by the Navy.  (Laughs.)  It’s all about as
joint as it can possibly get.  
  
Every day, the more than 20,000 members of the Air Force and Army, along
with civilian personnel, come to work with a shared mission.  No matter
which branch of our armed forces you proudly represent, you’re part of
the greatest fighting force in the history of the world.  That’s not
hyperbole.  The greatest fighting force in the history of the world.   
  
You’re integral to the most powerful nation in the world.  There’s been
no Army, Navy, or Air Force ever like you — or Marines.   
  
Here at Joint Base Langley-Eustis, you enable the success of our mission
around the world.  You provide intelligence support and airpower.  You
ensure our soldiers and airmen are ready, trained to deploy the COCOMs
around the world — including, this year, adhering to COVID-19 safety
protocols and quarantines before to ship out in order to minimize the
spread of the virus.   
  
I know that many of you deployed yourselves, probably more than once. 
Over the past 20 years, our volunteer force and our military families
have made incredible sacrifices for this country.   
  
Early in my term as Vice President, when I traveled overseas, I’d
sometimes meet service men and women who were deployed their fourth,
fifth, sixth times.  I remember going into Baghdad, just remember — and
those of you who had to fly in, you do those circular deals so we
wouldn’t get shot at, we wouldn’t get hit.   
  
I walked up in the cockpit of a silver bullet that they had me in.  And
I asked — I said, “How many…” — there were five people in the cockpit at
the time — the loadmaster as well.  I said, “How many is this your first
tour?”  Nobody raised their hand.  “How many the second tour?”  Nobody
raised their hand.  “Third tour?”  Two raised their hand.  “Fourth
tour?”  Two raised their hand.  “Fifth tour?”  One raised their hand. 
No other war have you gone in, served, and got back up and go back again
and again and again.  Once.  Once.   
  
Wiping the blood off the seat of an up-armored HMMWV is enough to get
you focused.  Then to saddle up next time and go back and back again? 
You’re incredible.  You’re incredible.   
  
The country — they owe you, and they’re — this time, they’re more
appreciative.  In my generation, you didn’t come home and get off an
airplane in a uniform in an airport coming back from Vietnam.  People
will treat you with respect, but they have no idea the sacrifices you
make in theater.   
  
As we bring — as we get close to bringing down the longest war drawdown
in American history — our troop presence in Afghanistan — I want to
recognize the significance to — of what all of you, the United States
Armed Forces, have accomplished in the past 20 years.  
  
Went to Afghanistan with a clear purpose: to get the people who attacked
us on 9/11 and to prevent al Qaeda from using Afghanistan as a base from
which to attack America in the future.  To achieve that purpose — you
achieved that purpose.  Year after year, deployment after deployment,
American troops pursued the terrorist threat through some of the most
unforgiving terrain on the planet.   
  
I have now had the pleasure, as they say, of being to every part of
Afghanistan, from the FOBs up in the Kunar Valley; down south, looking
at all those poppy fields; and all in between.  It’s one godforsaken
landscape.   
  
But you all just showed up and did your job, and it helped make sure
there hasn’t been another attack on the homeland from Afghanistan for
the last 20 years.  And you never gave up until we delivered justice to
Osama bin Laden.  
  
I got criticized after 9/11 for saying, “We’ll follow the son of a bi- —
gun to the gates of hell until we get him.”  It’s exactly what you did. 
That’s exactly what you did.  And you got him.  
  
And now, as we draw down, we’re also going to focus on the urgent work
of rebuilding over-the-horizon capabilities that’ll allow us to take out
al Qaeda if they return to Afghanistan — but to focus on the threat that
has metastasized.   
  
The greatest threat and likelihood of attack from al Qaeda or ISIS is
not going to be from Afghanistan; it’s going to be from five other
regions of the world that have significantly more presence of both al
Qaeda and organizational structures, including ISIS.  
  
We’re going to update our security stance and turn our forces to the
threats that will dominate our future to ensure the security of the
American people for decades to come.   
  
But we’ll never, ever, ever forget the terrible cost that we paid as a
nation.  Many of you likely have lost friends and colleagues in
Afghanistan and Iraq.  I know this is personal to you, especially as you
head into Memorial Day weekend.  We as a nation will always remember and
pay tribute to those we lost.   
  
After I announced my decision to end the war in Afghanistan, the first
thing I did was visit — visit Section 60 of Arlington National Cemetery
— just walked through those headstones, seeing all those stones.   
  
Our son did not die in Iraq, but he came back — went as an incredibly
healthy young man and came back with a severe brain tumor because his
hooch was just downwind from those burn pits — I don’t know if that’s
the reason.  But he came home — it was just a matter of how long he
lived.   
  
I still carry with me — every single solitary day I have my staff, for
the last — since the war began — I have my schedule.  In the back of my
schedule, it says, “U.S. daily troop update.  U.S. troops died in Iraq
and Afghanistan: 6,927” — not “over 6,000.”  Total fallen angels across
the board: over 7,000.  
  
Every one of these lives lost is a tragedy, an empty seat at the dinner
table, a missing voice at the holidays.  Every one of them left behind a
whole community — not just one, a whole community.  We can never repay
that debt.  But I promise you this — and to all the Gold Star families
across the country: We will never, ever, ever, ever forget.   
  
Each year, Memorial Day offers us a chance to reflect on the enormity of
the sacrifices that generation after generation of Americans has made
and the responsibilities that we bear — the citizens bear in return.   
  
I’ve said many times — it used to get me in trouble 25 years ago, 30
years ago in the Senate — I said, “America has many obligations.  We
only have one sacred obligation.  We have obligations to our children,
to the elderly, and so many more things, but only one sacred obligation
— is to prepare you, when we send you into harm’s way, with everything
you need; to care for your families when you’re gone; when you come
home, care for you and your families, and the needs that may be a
consequence of the war.”  
  
We owe it.  We owe it to you.  We particularly owe it to their memories
to affirm the very best of what America stands for — to uphold honor and
democratic values that are the foundation and the strength of this
nation.  
  
You know, I sometimes get criticized for saying what I deeply believe,
having done this for the bulk of my life.  We’re in a — we’re in a
battle between democracies and autocracies.  The more complicated the
world becomes, the more difficult it is for democracies to come together
and reach consensus.  I’ve spent more time with President Xi of China
than any world leader has — for 24 hours of private meetings with him
with just an interpreter; 17,000 miles traveling with him in China and
here. He firmly believes that China, before the year ’30, ’35,  is going
to own America because autocracies can make quick decisions.   
  
But America is unique.  From all nations in the world, we’re the only
nation organized based on an idea.  Every other nation you can define by
their ethnicity, their geography, their religion, except America. 
America is born out of an idea: “We hold these truths to be
self-evident, that all men \[and women\] are created equal… endowed by
their Creator with certain inalienable Rights, \[including\] Life,
Liberty,” et cetera.   
  
None of you get your rights from your government; you get your rights
merely because you’re a child of God.  The government is there to
protect those God-given rights.  No other government has been based on
that notion.  No one can defeat us except us.   
  
It’s an idea that generations of patriots have fought and died for to
defend it.  I know that’s a conviction that each and every day you all
share.  That’s why you joined up, why you run around danger when duty
calls.   
  
It’s my greatest honor — it should not surprise anybody; it should be
anybody’s greatest honor in all of life — to be able to serve as your
Commander-in-Chief.  No greater honor.  
  
So, thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you for spending this time
with me today.  And thank you for your commitment to our country,
because without you, as I said — I’ll be — end where I began: You are
the spine of America — the spine.   
  
And I can’t tell you how much it matters.  I think you underestimate
just the consequence of who you are and what you do.   
  
So, thank you.  May God bless you.  And may God protect our troops. 
Thanks.  (Applause.)  
  
2:29 P.M. EDT
