---
category: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-05-10'
modified_time: 2021-05-10 17:55:46-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/05/10/remarks-by-president-biden-on-the-economy/
published_time: 2021-05-10 18:15:00-04:00
title: Remarks by President Biden on the Economy
---
 
East Room

1:44 P.M. EDT  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Good afternoon.  Excuse me.  I’d like to start by saying
a few words about the ransomware cyberattack currently impacting
Colonial Pipeline.  This is something that my administration — our
administration have been tracking extremely carefully.  And I have been
perfectly — personally briefed every day.  
  
The Department of Energy is working directly with Colonial to get the
pipelines back online and operating at full capacity as quickly and
safely as possible.  
  
The FBI also is engaged to assess the — and address this attack.  The
agencies across the government have attacked quifly — quickly to
mitigate any impact on our fuel supply.   
  
And over the weekend, at my direction, the Department of Transportation
issued an emergency order to loosen restrictions on truck drivers in
order to allow more fuel to be transported via tanker.  
  
We’re prepared to take additional steps, depending on how quickly the
company is able to bring its pipeline back to full operational
capacity.  
  
The Federal Bureau of Investigation has determined Colonial’s network
was infected by ransomware, and it’s a criminal act, obviously.  The FBI
released details of the attack so others can take steps to prevent being
infected.  
  
My administration takes issue — this — takes this very seriously.  We
have efforts underway with the FBI and DOJ — Department of Justice — to
disrupt and — and prosecute ransomware criminals.  And my administration
will be pursuing a global effort of ransomware attacks by transnational
criminals who often use global money-laundering networks to carry them
out.   
  
My administration is also committed to safeguarding our critical
infrastructure, which — much of which is privately owned and managed,
like Colonial.  Private entities are making their own determination on
cybersecurity.   
  
So to jumpstart greater private-sector investment in cybersecurity, we
launched a new public-private initiative in April.  It begins with a
100-day sprint to improve cybersecurity in the electric sector, and
we’ll follow that with similar initiatives in natural gas pipelines,
water, and other sectors.   
  
In addition to companies stepping up, we need to invest to safeguard our
critical infrastructure.  That’s one of the many things my American Jobs
Plan is designed to do.   
  
I also want to update the people on the progress that we’ve made in our
recovery and the next steps that we’re going to be taking.   
  
As we learned Friday, the economy created 266,000 jobs in April.  In
fact, altogether, since the time we took office, we’ve created more than
1.5 million jobs in the country.  It’s the most jobs created in the
first 100 days of any President on record: more than three times the
solid job creation that President Carter \[Clinton\] saw in his first
100 days and more than six times what President Reagan saw.   
  
In the three months before I got here, our country was creating roughly
60,000 jobs a month.  In the three months since we’ve gotten here, we’ve
been creating 500- — on average, 500,000 jobs per month.   
  
In the first quarter, our economy grew at 6.4 percent rate, outpacing
the growth we’re seeing from other — our friends in the Eurozone.   
  
Because of the American Rescue Plan, forecrast- — forecasters are
projecting we’ll see the fastest economic growth in nearly 40 years in
the months to come.  We’re moving in the right direction.   
  
So let’s be clear: Our economic plan is working.  I never said — and no
serious analyst ever suggested — that climbing out of the deep, deep
hole our economy was in would be simple, easy, immediate, or perfectly
steady.  Remember, 22 million Americans lost their jobs in this
pandemic.   
  
So, some months will exceed expectations; others will fall short.  The
question is, “What is the trendline?  Are we headed in the right
direction?  Are we taking the right steps to keep it going?”  And the
answer, clearly, is yes.  
  
I also want to offer a bit more detail on the month’s jobs numbers, in
particular.  These months — these monthly reports are snapshot, as you
all know.  A one — it’s a — they take one week, a moment in time.  Since
this snapshot was taken around the week of April the 12th — since then,
COVID-19 counts are down by more than 40 percent since then, and
vaccination rates among working-age Americans has roughly doubled since
then.  
  
This survey was taken before adults — before every adult was eligible to
be vaccinated.  So, back then, 18 percent of working-age adults were
fully vaccinated.  Today, if it were taken, 34 percent are fully
vaccinated.   
  
No wonder things in America feel better today than they did back when
the survey was taken.   
  
With that context, here are the steps we’re going to be taking to
maintain our progress.  First, today we’re opening a portal for state
and local governments to apply for their — the first funds from the
American Rescue Plan.  Because states and local governments have to
balance their budgets, a lot of them had to lay off employees when the
economy — state and federal — state employees and local employees when
the economy slowed and tax revenues fell.  We’re talking about 1.3
million state and local employees out of work.   
  
Now — but now the money we’re distributing — going to be distributing
now is going to make it possible for an awful lot of educators, first
responders, sanitation workers to go back to work.   
  
Second — this is a yearlong program.  Second, we’re delivering
assistance to tens of thousands of restaurants and bars across the
country.  Today, we’re sending out the first relief checks to 16,000
hard-hit restaurants with help for many more to follow.  A lot more
people are going to be employed.  
  
Third, the employers bring back laid-off workers.  To help them do that,
we’re going to remind them that there is some progress they can take
advantage — some programs they can take advantage of.   
  
For example, employers can hire back their laid-off workers part time
without those workers having to give up all of their unemployment
benefits.   
  
Here is another example: In the American Rescue Plan, we expanded a tax
incentive called “Employee Retention Tax Credit.”  This can provide a
recovering small- or medium-sized — a small- or medium-sized business a
direct credit for each worker they keep on or a job that they rehire.   
  
Fourth, we’re going to provide real help for people struggling with the
challenge of childcare, which is making it hard for many parents who
need to work — especially women — to get back to work.   
  
During this crisis, thousands of childcare providers and centers were
forced to close because they couldn’t make ends meet with fewer students
and higher costs to keep them safe.  As a result, parents lost support —
lost the support system they depended on for childcare, and tens of
thousands of childcare workers lost their jobs.  In fact, there are
150,000 fewer childcare jobs now than there were pre-pandemic.   
  
The American Rescue Plan has already allocated funds to states to
address the immediate challenge to our economy and of too few childcare
operations.  This is a largest investment in childcare since World War
Two.  
  
Today, my administration is releasing guidance to states to help get the
funds they need out the door as quickly as possible to allow dramatic
expansion and availability of childcare in this country.  With these
funds, states can help hundreds of thousands of providers reopen and
stay open and provide safe and healthy learning environments for more
than 5 million children.   
  
These funds will also allow states to provide over 800,000 families with
subsidies to pay for childcare.  Simply put, it’s going to help working
parents get back to work.  This one-time investment is a — is a real
answer to a real problem where our economy is facing right now.   
  
Look, the fifth thing we’re going to do: We’re going to make it clear
that anyone collecting unemployment who is offered a suitable job must
take the job or lose their unemployment benefits.  There are a few
COVID-19-related exceptions so that people aren’t forced to choose
between their basic safety and a paycheck, but, otherwise, that’s the
law.   
  
I know there’s been a lot of discussion since Friday — since Friday’s
report that people are being paid to stay home rather than go to work. 
Well, we don’t see much evidence of that.  That is a major factor — we
don’t see that — that — look, it’s easy to say — the line has been,
because of the generous unemployment benefits, that it’s a major factor
in labor shortages.   
  
Americans want to work.  Americans want to work.  And as my dad used to
say, “A job is about a lot more than a paycheck; it’s about your
dignity, your place in the community, being able to look your kid in the
eye and say, ‘Everything is going to be okay.'”  
  
I think the people who claim Americans won’t work even if they find a
good and fair opportunity underestimate the American people.  So we’ll
insist that the law is followed with respect to benefits, but we’re not
going to turn our backs on our fellow Americans.   
  
Twenty-two million people lost their jobs in this pandemic through no
fault of their own.  They lost their jobs to a virus, and to a
government that bungled its response to the crisis and failed to protect
them.   
  
We still have 8 million fewer jobs than we did when the pandemic
started.  And for many of those folks, unemployment benefits are a
lifeline.  No one should be allowed to game the system and we’ll insist
the law is followed, but let’s not take our eye off the ball.   
  
Families — families who are just trying to put food on the table, keep a
roof over their head — they aren’t the problem.  We need to stay focused
on the real problems in front of us: beating this pandemic and creating
jobs.   
  
Again, the law is clear: If you’re receiving unemployment benefits and
you’re offered a suitable job, you can’t refuse that job and just keep
getting the unemployment benefits.   
  
We’re also working to overcome all the barriers that may be making it
harder for people to get back to work: childcare, getting vaccinated,
getting schools open.  We’re making progress in all these things.  And
we need others to step up and play a role as well.   
  
For example, we need employers to step up in a couple of ways.  First,
we need them to get help to their people and get them vaccinated.   
  
Two weeks ago, I announced that we will provide a tax credit to
employers if they give workers paid time off to get a shot and recover
from the effects of the — the side effects, if there are any.  Our
economy can’t achieve its full potential until we get more people
vaccinated.  Employers can help that.   
  
And we also need to recognize that people will come back to work if
they’re paid a decent wage.   
  
The last Congress before I became President gave businesses over $1.4
trillion in COVID relief.  Congress may have approved that money, but
let’s be clear: The money came from the American people.  And it went
from the American people to American businesses, many of them big
businesses, to help them get through this pandemic and keep their doors
open.   
  
I’m not questioning it; it was the right thing to do.  But my
expectation is that, as our economy comes back, these companies will
provide fair wages and safe work environments.  And if they do, they’ll
find plenty of workers and we’re all going to come out of this together
better than before.   
  
So we need to stay focused on creating jobs and beating this pandemic
today, and building back better for tomorrow.  America — the American
Rescue Plan is just that: a rescue plan.  It’s to get us out of the
crisis and back on the track, but it’s not nearly enough.   
  
That’s why we need the American Jobs Plan, which is an eight-year
investment — an eight-year investment strategy to make sure working
people of this country get to share in the benefits of a rai- — a rising
economy, and to put us in a position to win the competition with China
and the rest of the world for the 21st century.   
  
That’s the next stage.  That’s what I’m — we’re doing right now.  We’re
working to get that passed.   
  
I want to thank you all.  And may God protect our troops.  Thank you.   
  
Q    Mr. President — Mr. President, if you can’t protect critical
infrastructure from a criminal actor, how can you possibly protect it
from a state actor?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  We can do both, and we will.   
  
Q    Do you think Russia is involved at all, implicitly, with that
attack?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  I’m going to have a conver- — I’m going to be meeting
with President Putin.  And so far, there is no evidence based on — from
our intelligence people that Russia is involved.  Although there is
evidence that the actors — ransomware — is in Russia.  They have some
responsibility to deal with this.   
  
Thank you.   
  
1:59 P.M. EDT
