---
category: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-05-19'
modified_time: 2021-05-19 20:11:34-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/05/19/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-before-meeting-with-guatemalan-justice-sector-leaders/
published_time: 2021-05-19 20:15:00-04:00
title: Remarks by Vice President Harris Before Meeting with Guatemalan Justice Sector
  Leaders
---
 
Vice President’s Ceremonial Office  

4:19 P.M. EDT  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  It is an honor to be with all of you.  And thank
you for accepting the invitation to meet with me and our team this
afternoon.   
  
As you may know, my background and most of my career I spent as an
attorney fighting for justice and fighting against injustice.  And this
is a table of leaders who have fought for justice, who have fought
against injustice — often at great peril to yourselves but in the
interest of the greater good, in the interest of democratic values, and
in the interest of all that we hold dear in terms of ensuring that we
have a just society, that we fight corruption, that the individual does
not experience injustice at the hands of its government.  
  
And so, today, we have leaders from — from this background who have
fought and have spent their entire careers fighting for justice in
Guatemala.  At this table are attorneys who have prosecuted drug
traffickers and organized crime.  At this table are judges who have
advocated for an independent judiciary and the rule of law; leaders who
have taken on corruption, who have taken on violence, and have worked to
commit themselves to what must happen in terms of ensuring that there
will be justice as it relates to all people in Guatemala.   
  
Some of these leaders have been forced to leave the country because of
this work.  And we are here because I want to hear your stories
unfiltered, unedited, and directly.  
  
I intend to then work — informed with your knowledge, your feedback, and
your perspective — on the work that we, as the United States, intend to
do to address the root causes of migration from the Northern Triangle,
understanding that among the root causes is the issue of corruption and
the disintegration or violation of the rule of law.   
  
So that’s why I’ve asked you to join me today, and along with my team,
in preparation for the ongoing work we will do, including my visit to
Guatemala at the beginning of June.  
  
And as you know — and I don’t need to tell you this — injustice is a
root cause of migration.  And in particular, it is causing the people of
the region to leave their homes involuntarily — meaning they don’t want
to leave but they are fleeing: Women, Indigenous people,
Afro-descendants, LGBTQ people are facing discrimination and
persecution; families are living in fear of traffickers and gangs.   
  
Corruption is preventing people from getting basic services that they
should be entitled to receive, such as educating their children, getting
a business started, or participating in a fair judicial trial.  And so
these are some of the areas that we will focus on.   
  
I want to underscore one point also, which is that corruption is also a
deterrent to financial and economic investment in the region — a
significant deterrent.  
  
So if part of our goal is to look at what we can do to support and
enhance economic development in the region, understanding that lack of
economic opportunity is one of the reasons that people flee — if we are
prevented from a course of action that is about spurring economic
activity because of the legitimate concern with corruption — that is
another reason that demands our attention to what we must do to reduce
corruption, if not eliminate it, in the region.  So that’s the work we
are going to do together.   
  
I believe strongly in judicial independence.  That is a topic — that
will be a topic of our discussion.   
  
I believe that the government must be held accountable when it violates
the rights of its people.   
  
And I believe that a judicial system, when it is just, gives people
confidence that they can live in a way that they can raise their
families, that they can live with freedom, and they can live with
certainty that there will be an equal application of the law as it
relates to all people, regardless of who they are and which family they
were born into.  
  
So, I will say, as my final points, that the work that we are doing in
this region is motivated by a number of principles, including my firm
belief that if we give people a sense of hope — that if they stay, help
is on the way — that they will indeed do what they want to do, which is
remain with their families, remain in their community.  And part of
giving people hope is having a very specific commitment to rooting out
corruption in the region.   
  
So that is our work.  And I am honored again to have these incredible
leaders join us.  And I’m looking forward to our candid conversation.   
  
So, with that, I thank you all.  Thank you very much for being here.  
  
4:46 P.M. EDT
