---
category: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-05-18'
modified_time: 2021-05-18 17:42:17-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/05/18/remarks-by-president-biden-on-a-future-made-in-america/
published_time: 2021-05-18 18:00:00-04:00
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden on a Future Made in\_America"
---
 
Ford Rouge Electric Vehicle Center  
Dearborn, Michigan

1:51 P.M. EDT

THE PRESIDENT:  My name is Joe Biden and I’m a car guy.  (Applause.)  I
got — please sit down.  I got through high school and college and law
school because my dad ran an agency.  And I’m delighted to be here.

I want to say something else up front: I’m standing here because, about
180 years ago, when I first got elected to the Senate, Gov — (laughter)
— the UAW elected me.  (Applause.)  We used to have the highest
percentage of autoworkers of any state in the nation because we have a
small workforce and two giant plants, plus Mopar and a few other things
going on.  So I want to thank you.

Look, and I want to thank a good friend of mine: Michigan Governor
Gretchen Whitmer.  (Applause.)  As my mother would say, Gretchen, “God
love you, dear.”  You’ve got a backbone like a ramrod, you got a brain
as big as anybody in the business, and you are so honorable.  It’s a
delight to know you.  And anything I can do — as I said to you before,
I’ll come campaign for you or against you, whichever will help the
most.  (Laughter.)

And, Ang — I want to thank Angela.  We were talking backstage —
backstage, yeah, on the other side of the truck — and I want to thank
her very much for being so gracious.

And, Rory, I know you’re new to the labor movement, but you’re doing a
pretty good job.  (Laughter.)  Where — where is Rory?  Rory, thank you,
pal.  Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you.  And everyone at the UAW for
being the best autoworkers in the world. 

You know, I — and I want to thank Bill Ford and Jim Farley for hosting
us, and investing in our workers and in our country. 

We’re at a great inflection point in American history.  How we handle
the next 4 to 10 years is going to determine where we’re going to be 30,
40, 50 years from now.  It’s one of those moments in American history. 

This is an incredible facility.

Representative Debbie Dingell, another dear friend — I know John is
looking down, and he’s saying, “We’re finally getting it done, huh?” 
You’re getting it done.  Debbie, you’re a —

And Representative Dan Kildee — he’s a good friend.

Representative Brenda Lawrence. 

And, by the way, be careful what you say to Representative Slotkin.  She
knows more than you and they may be watching you.  (Laughter.)  Where
are you?  I tease her all the time, and she’s a great, great, great
addition to the Congress.

And Rashida Tlaib — where’s Rashida?  I tell you what, Rashida — and I
want to say to you that I admire your intellect, I admire your passion,
and I admire your concern for so many other people.  And it’s my — from
my heart, I pray that your grandmom and family are well.  I promise you,
I’m going to do everything to see that they are on the West Bank. 
You’re a fighter.  And, God, thank you for being a fighter.  (Applause.)

And Andy Levin — I know a lot of Levins.  And, Haley Stevens, thank you
all as well.

And I also want to thank Mayor Jim \[John\] O’Reilly of Dearborn for the
passport into the city.  Thank you, Mr. Mayor.

And my buddy, Mike Duggan — he is my mayor.  I got — I was sitting one
day in the Oval with Barack Obama when President Obama — when I was Vice
President.  And he looked at me like it was just something off the — he
said, “By the way, I want you to go fix Detroit.”  I said, “Say that
again.  What am I going to do?” 

He said, “You can get anybody in the government to go with you.  You
just do it.”  First call I made was this guy.  You brought it off its
knees; you brought it back.  You’re a great mayor and you’re a great
friend.  You got a lot of courage, Mr. Mayor.  Thank you.  (Applause.)

And two great friends, Debbie Stabenow and Gary Peters, who couldn’t be
here today because they’re back fighting like hell — fighting for this
industry and the people of this state and for labor.

Labor, industry, federal, state, local leaders all together.  That’s
America at its best.  And that’s what I so admire about what Bill Ford
is doing here. 

And I — you know, I want to — so everything that these workers, this
historic complex, and this state represent is something that I hope gets
modeled around the country.  It’s about respect.  It’s about dignity —
the dignity of work. 

My dad used to say, “Joey…” — and I swear to God, when he left Scranton,
when the coal died — my dad was not a — he was — he was a salesperson;
he wasn’t a coal miner.  My great-grandpop was, but — 

He — he said — he used to say — when he moved to Delaware — he had to
leave because there were no jobs and he left us with our grandpop for a
little over a year.  And he commuted back and forth from Wilmington,
Delaware, to Scranton on the weekends. 

And when he got back down to Wilmington, he used to say to all of us —
and I was, I guess, then, about — I was — well, I was going into third
grade. 

And he’d say, “Joey, remember…” — I mean this sincerely — “…a job is
about a lot more than a paycheck.  It’s about your dignity.  It’s about
respect.  It’s about your place in the community…” — I really mean this
— “…and about being able to look your kid in the eye and say, ‘Honey,
it’s going to be okay.  It’s going to be okay.'”

It’s not labor; it’s union.  Because what you allow people do is hold
their heads up, make a decent living, and have pride in what they do —
pride in what you build, pride in what you give this nation.

And I wanted to be here today — the day before you unveil the next
generation of America’s bestselling vehicle to the entire world — to
thank you.  Thank you for showing how we win the competition of the 21st
century.  You know, how the future is going to be made — it’s gong to be
made here in America.  Made in America.  (Applause.)

And I have to say, this brings me home.  For more than 30 years, my dad,
when we moved to Delaware, managed automobile dealerships in Delaware,
including the Ford dealership. 

And, man, did I like that ’57 Ford Fairlane.  (Laughs.)  Oh, boy, it
ain’t got nothing on F-150.  But all kidding aside, that’s what got me
through school. 

And, you know, I doubt I’d be — I doubt that it would ever contribute
$50 billion — $50 billion — it would support about 500,000 American jobs
— F-150 — half of the 1 million American jobs Ford supports overall,
like the 150 series. 

You know, I just got a tour of the groundbreaking electric vehicle
center here, along with the UAW workers.  And they showed me the
technology they’re using to build this first-ever fully electric F-150. 
I was able to sit in it.  Quite frankly, I — they let me see it.  So I
apologize to you at home won’t see it until tomorrow, but, man, you’re
going to like it. 

And — and I’d sure like to drive it.  I wonder whether or not I can lose
the Secret Service and go out to the track.  But — you all think I’m
kidding, don’t you?  (Laughter.)  The press knows I’m not.  (Laughter.)

Look, the future of the auto industry is electric.  There’s no turning
back.  And as Rory says, “The American auto industry is at a
crossroads.”  And the real question is whether we’ll lead or we’ll fall
behind in the race to the future; or whether we’ll build these vehicles
and the batteries that go in them here in the United States or rely on
other countries; or whether the jobs to build these vehicles and
batteries, that are good-paying union jobs with benefits — jobs that
will sustain and grow the middle class. 

Right now, China is leading in this race.  Make no bones about it; it’s
a fact. 

You know, we used to invest more in research and development than any
country in the world and China was number eight — or, excuse me, number
nine.  We now are number eight and China is number one.  Can’t let that
be sustained.  The future is going to be determined by the best minds in
the world, by those who break through new barriers.

You know, it has — China — the largest, fastest-growing electrical
vehicle market in the world, and a key part of an electric vehicle is
the battery.  Right now, 80 percent of the manufacturing capacity of
those batteries is done in China, though not the battery for the 150 —
the F-150.  We went down to Georgia and took care of that. 

That allows them to corner the market on the supplies and raw materials
for those batteries.  Important almost — importing almost all the
lithium — 90 percent — that comes from countries from like Australia,
which lead the world in mining these kinds of critical materials. 

And here’s the deal: It’s not that China’s battery technology is that
much more innovative than anyone else’s.  Remember, our national labs in
the United States, our universities, our automakers led in the
development of this technology.

But today, China has a bigger manufacturing scale than all other
countries.  And they’re using that scale to make these batteries not
just in China, but they’re making them in Germany and in Mexico.  And
they’re now exporting those electric vehicles around the world, with
sights on the American market. 

And they think they’re going to win.  Well, I got news for them: They
will not win this race.  We can’t let them.  (Applause.)  We have to
move fast, and that’s what you’re doing here.

When President Obama and I were in — when Barack and I were in office,
that was what we were going to do.  Remember 2009?  The auto industry
was flat on its back.  And remember, I got criticized by the press
because I was the auto guy, pushing. 

Well, guess what?  We were told that we’d never be able to sell
American-made cars at the same rate as before.  But we didn’t listen. 
We bet on you, the American auto worker.  We extended a lifeline and we
stepped up, saved more than a million jobs.  (Applause.)

Working with the auto industry, we set fuel efficiency standards and
provided incentives for folks to buy fuel-efficient vehicles.

And through the Recovery Act, we made the largest investment in clean
energy and battery technology ever.  And the Big Three emerged from the
crisis in a position to sell millions of vehicles made right here in the
USA.

But then the previous administration came into office.  They rolled back
the standards we set — rollbacks that the Ford Motor Company opposed.

Despite bipartisan support for consumer incentives, they let the federal
tax credit expire, penalizing autoworkers who were selling the most
electric vehicles at the time.

They announced infrastructure week — and they announced it and announced
it and announced it and announced it every week for four years, and
didn’t do a damn thing.  They didn’t get the job done.

Folks, the rest of the world is moving fast.  They’re moving ahead. 
They’re not waiting for the United States of America.  Government,
labor, industry — working together — have to step up.  And we have a
playbook that will work.

We’re going to set a new pace for electric vehicles.  That means
reversing the previous administration’s short-sighted rollback of
vehicle emissions and efficiency standards, setting strong, clear
targets where we need to go.

It means passing the American Jobs Plan to do three things.  One,
transform our infrastructure.  Our infrastructure is ranked like 38th in
the world.  This is the United States of America, for God’s sake.

We’re going to put Americans to work modernizing our roads, our
highways, our ports, our airports, rails, and transit systems.  That
includes putting IBEW members and the union workers to work installing
500,000 charging stations along our roads and highways, our homes and
our apartments.  (Applause.)  The IBEW is ready to do it, and they can.

Two, we’re going to boost our manufacturing capacity.  That’s why the
American Jobs Plan invests in new and retooled union facilities: grants
to kickstart new battery and parts production, loans and tax credits to
boost manufacturing of these clean vehicles.

It also makes the largest investment in research and development in
generations.  That’s going to help innovate, manufacture, and build the
supply chains for batteries and semi-conductors and the small computer
chips that make electric trucks and cars go — to be even more reliant
than they are now.

It matters.  The little things matter.

We saw, last night, the Senate voted overwhelmingly to begin work on
part of the bill that I’ve been pushing to strengthen our innovation in
infrastructure by investing in research and development and
manufacturing.  I don’t remember the exact number, but it was pretty
high.  I think it was 83 to something in a bipartisan vote.  That’s a
good first step. 

And your members of Congress here in Michigan — they know the value of
manufacturing as well as anyone and are vital in pushing forward that
bill and others.

Never again should we be in the situation we face today with
semiconductor shortages: The United States — we can’t manufacture
semi-conductors.  We were the beginning.

You know, I think some people think I’m too — too proud of what the
United States always did and why I get so frustrated when we’re
sliding.  But I make no apologies for it.  We know these kinds of
federal investments work.

It was the Defense Department and NASA that got the modern
semi-conductor industry on its feet decades ago.  We started it.  Your
tax dollars.  Our own Department of Energy pioneered and transformed the
battery indury \[industry\] when Barack and I were in office.

And through the Recovery Act grants and loans, battery prices dropped 80
percent — 80 percent — because we were looking forward.

We need that same mindset today.  We have to look forward.  And, you
know, we have to work to support consumers and these fleets.

That means new purchasing incentives for consumers to buy clean vehicles
like the electric Ford 150 — a union-made product — right here in
America.  But all the pieces must be made in America.

It means spurring demand by converting the federal government’s enormous
fleet of vehicles into clean vehicles and supporting electric transit
systems and school buses.

Folks, when I got elected, I signed an executive order saying we’re
going to buy American.  As President, I get to award contracts in the
area of 600 to 700 billion dollars a year — from building aircraft
carriers, to railings that go in — in buildings. 

Guess what?  And Representative Kildee knows: I’m not letting a single
contract to a single company that does not hire Americans, have all
American parts, and has a supply chain that is an American product
supply chain.  (Applause.)

And, by the way, that’s not violating any trade agreement.  It’s been
the law since the ’30s, but no one has had the courage or the nerve to
insist on it being applied.  It’s no violation of the World Trade
Organization or anything else.  If we’re spending American tax dollars,
we’re able to say, “Buy American.”

But there’s a lot of exceptions in the law.  If you don’t have the part
immediately available in the supply chain, you can go abroad and get
it.  And anyone in the agency can say, “I can’t find it here.  I’m going
somewhere.”  Not anymore.  They got to go through the White House.  Not
a joke.  Nobody can give that exception now. 

Because there’s thousands of companies out there that are able to do —
small companies — 3, 4, 10, 15 people — who can supply those pieces if
they know they can compete for them. 

My brother has an expression — a guy named Pete McLaughlin, who was a
great basketball player — played for Providence — was a good, close
friend.  He’d say, “Joe, you got to know how to know.  You got to know
how to know.”  We don’t let the American companies know what’s available
to them, especially if they’re small.  So we’re going to have a — we
have an office and a facility in the White House to let people know
what’s needed. 

And there is another thing we have in our playbook that’s going to
outcompete other nations — the biggest secret we have: the American
worker.  (Applause.)  Not a joke.  They’re the finest workforce in the
world.  It’s our ace in that deck.

Now, I know many of you watching at home are like the folks I grew up
with in Scranton and in Claymont, Delaware.  They feel left out, left
behind in an economy and an industry that’s rapidly changing.  I
understand it.  I really do. 

But we will leave no one behind.

Nearly 90 percent of the jobs created in my American Jobs Plan do not
require a bachelor’s degree; 75 percent don’t require a associate’s
degree.  We’re going to be working with companies and community colleges
and technical schools and union-led apprentice and training programs to
make sure that American workers will be prepared to compete with anyone
in the world, just like Ford does with its workforce training center
here in Dearborn. 

And when we invest in our infrastructure, we’re going to buy American
products, materials, services from American businesses — made in
America.  And we’ll do everything in our power to encourage and protect
the right of workers to unionize and collectively bargain.  (Applause.)

I met with, I think it was more than a dozen CEOs of the major Fortune
500 companies.  We started off and I said, “I want to be clear with you:
I’m a union guy.”  And every one of them but one said, “I understand.” 
Because now they’re realizing what Mr. Ford realizes: that you are the
best workers available.  You’re the best trained.  You’re the most
capable.  And you save overall.

Bottom line: The American Jobs Plan is a blue-collar blueprint to
rebuild America — a blue-collar blueprint to build America. 
(Applause.)  And we need automakers and other companies to keep
investing here in America and not take the benefits of our public
investments and expand electric vehicles and battery manufacturing
production abroad. 

We need you to deepen your partnership with the UAW, pay good wages, and
support communities like Dearborn across the country.  We need to come
together as a nation.

The Vice President and I have had a number of meetings in the Oval
Office with Republican leaders in Congress and members of Congress.  We
believe we can find a bipartisan deal on infrastructure.  And we look
forward to hearing more details of their proposal — which they’re going
to submit a counterproposal either later today or tomorrow to me. 

But we’ve made one thing clear: We’ll compromise, but doing nothing is
not an option.  Doing nothing is not an option.  The world is not
waiting, I say for a second time. 

I’ll conclude with this: Last month, I kept my commitment to convene the
leaders of the major economies around the world from Russia, China,
India, Japan, the European Union.  I convened them all.  I think there
were 48 or 50 heads of state — presidents and prime ministers — a
meeting I hosted, by the White House, on one of the most consequential
issues facing the world: the climate crisis. 

And I made it clear at the outset, as each of they — these folks came
on, what I’ve long believed: When I think of the climate crisis — beyond
its devastation to lives and livelihoods and the health of our very
planet — I think “jobs.”  I think jobs when I think climate change —
good-paying union jobs.  I think about the UAW workers here today. 

I wanted to make sure that the world could see that there was a
consensus that we are at an inflection point in our history, and almost
every major leader in the world spoke to it.

If we act to save the planet, we can create millions of good-paying
jobs, generate significant economic growth and opportunity to raise the
standard of living for people not only here, but around the world. 

But I also wanted to put the world on notice: America is back.  America
is back.  (Applause.)  In the competition for the 21st century, the
future will be built right here in America.  (Applause.) 

Look at this plant.  We’re moving.  We’re working again.  We’re dreaming
again.  We’re discovering again.  We’re leading the world again. 

We have shown each other and the world that there’s no quit in America. 
There’s simply no quit in America. And that’s never, ever — it’s — every
time I have these, sometimes knock-down, drag-them-outs with heads of
state in private — they’ll say something, and I’ll say, “Look, it’s
never been a good bet to bet against America.  Never, never, never.” 

This is the United States of America.  There’s not a single thing — and
I believe this with every fiber in me — that not a single thing —
nothing — beyond our capacity when we act together.  And that’s exactly
what we’re about to do, starting with all of you.

And thank you for allowing me to be here.  May God bless you.  And may
God protect our troops.  Thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you. 
(Applause.)

2:16 P.M. EDT
