---
category: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-05-27'
modified_time: 2021-05-27 23:23:17-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/05/27/remarks-by-president-biden-on-the-economy-2/
published_time: 2021-05-27 23:45:00-04:00
title: Remarks by President Biden on the Economy
---
 
Cuyahoga Community College  
Cleveland, Ohio

2:23 P.M. EDT

THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you, all.  Thank you.  Thank you.  Please, please,
please, please sit down.

Shilaah, thank you very much for sharing your story; it’s impressive. 
Dr. Johnson, everyone at Cuyahoga Community College, thank you for being
here and having me here. 

And, by the way, to all the elected officials: You know what we call
this in my business?  We call this a “busman’s holiday” — (laughter) —
to have to come and ride a bus again with another guy.  You’re awful
nice to be here.  The only thing worse for an elected official when the
President shows up is to say — the worst sentence in the English
language is, “I’m at the airport.”  (Laughter.)  And so — so — thank you
all so much.

You got some really great friends here, starting with Marcy.  Anyway,
Mr. Mayor, thank you.  Dr. Johnson, thank you very much and — for
letting me borrow, by the way, Marcia Fudge to serve as Secretary of
Housing and Urban Development.  (Applause.) 

You know, certain places, just by chance and circumstance, can become
markers in the course of your life or of a na- — of the course of the
nation.  And for me, Tri-C is one of those places.

Just a little over a year ago, March 10, 220- — in 2020, I came to
Cleveland as a candidate running for President to rally — hold a rally
here at the community college.  Upon unloading, we got word that
Governor DeWine — he did the right thing — wanted large indoor events to
shut down because of the growing concerns over the virus and — spreading
all across America. 

There would be no rally that night, and life in America had changed. 
And a long, dark year was about to descend upon all of us. 

Fourteen months later, we finally made it to campus.  And from a year of
darkness, we’re now emerging into the light.  And I said from the very
beginning: There’s no chance — no chance for this economy to come back
unless we beat the pandemic. 

I remember Congressman Ryan and I talking about that a lot on the
campaign trail.  You had to beat the pandemic to bring the economy
back.  And so that’s what we set out to do with the help of a lot of the
people that are right here. 

And after administering 271 million doses of vaccine in the first 120
days — and we have — the cases are down now from January from — they’re
down 83 percent — COVID cases — down.  The number of deaths has fallen
by 85 percent. 

Schools are reopening.  Businesses are reopening.  Restaurants are
reopening.  I hear that, as last night’s vaccine lottery, Ohio has a new
millionaire.  (Laughter.)  I tell you what: Who woulda thunk it?  A
million bucks for getting the vaccine.  (Laughter.)  But it’s working.

Now, 56 percent of Ohioans have had at least one shot.  We got to get to
70 percent.  That’s the goal. 

We’ve turned the tide on the once-in-a-century pandemic.  We’ve turned
the tide on a once-in-a-generation economic crisis.  And families are
beginning to be able to breathe just a little bit easier. 

We still have work to do, but our future today is as bright and as wide
open as it ever has been.  And now we’re faced with a question: What
kind of economy are we going to build for tomorrow?  What are we going
to do? 

I believe this is our moment to rebuild an economy from the bottom up
and the middle out, not a trickle-down economy from the very wealthy. 
That has never benefited people who are at this college or any other
place where they’re trying to make a living. 

To build an economy that rewards work, not just wealth.  An economy that
works for the backbone of this country — the people who get up every
single day, work hard, raise their families, pay their taxes, serve
their country, volunteer in their communities — just looking for a
little bit of breathing room. 

My dad used to say, “Just a little bit of breathing room, honey.”  And
Tim has heard me say this a thousand times — my dad used to say, “Joey,
a job is about a lot more than a paycheck.  It’s about your dignity. 
It’s about respect.  It’s about your place in the community.  It’s about
being able to look your kid in the eye and say, ‘Honey, it’s going to be
okay.’” 

The last few months have demonstrated what that economy can look like. 
When — when our event here was canceled in March, our economy was on the
brink of collapse.  My mom used to have — especially say, “You know, the
greatest gift God gave mankind was the ability forget.  Because if it
didn’t do that, every woman would only have one child.”  (Laughter.) 

But all kidding aside, the good news is we forget the bad times.  That’s
the good thing about we Americans: We’re always optimistic.  But 10
months — 10 months ago, we were in trouble. 

When I was sworn in, there were 10 million fewer jobs in America, and a
lot here in Ohio.  But in my first three months in office, the economy
has added back 500,000 jobs per month.  In fact, we’ve created — with
the help, again, of the members of Congress that are here today — 1.5
million jobs, more jobs than have ever been created in the first three
months of any presidency in the history United States.

Before I took office, the average initial claims for unemployment
insurance were over 830,000.  This morning, we learned that number has
fallen below 460,000 — cut in half the — and we’re at the lowest level
we’ve seen since March 2020 when the pandemic first struck.

Before I took office, almost 24 million Americans were going hungry. 
Marcy has heard me say this before: Did you ever think you’d see people
lined up for miles and miles and miles,  going into a stadium to get
someone to put a box of food in their trunk?  People who never ever,
ever, ever, ever, ever, ever thought they’d need that kind of help. 

Well, that number of hungry Americans — food-starved Americans — has
dropped by 30 percent.  Still too many, but there’s clear progress.

Before I took office, independent experts were projecting that our
economy would grow at 3 to 4 percent in the year 2021.  But they’re now
projecting that growth will be 6 percent or higher in 2021 — the fastest
growth in this country in 40 years. 

To sum it up: COVID cases are down, COVID deaths are down, unemployment
filings are down, hunger is down, vaccinations are up, jobs are up,
growth is up, people gaining health coverage is up, small business
confidence is up.  Put it simply: America is coming back.  America is on
the move.  (Applause.)

And that wasn’t an accident.  It wasn’t luck.  It happened for two
reasons.  First, we made the vaccine program a priority.  As my friends
in Congress will tell you, I got a lot of heat for just focusing on the
vaccine.  It goes back to what we all talk about.  You’ve got to fix the
pandemic before you can fix the economy. 

We were able to, with a lot of hard work, get 600 million doses of the
vaccine — enough for every single solitary American. 

We didn’t have enough vaccinators, so we went to FEMA, the United States
military, went to the AMA and got retired docs and nurses to come out of
retirement — got thousands and thousands of additional people to
administer the vaccines that we didn’t have before. 

We created more places to get vaccinated, hitting my target to ensure
that 90 percent of all Americans would have a vaccination site within
five miles of where they live.  And now, 50 percent of all of America —
more than any other country — is fully vaccinated.  (Applause.) 
Seventy-five — seventy-five percent of seniors — Black, white, Hispanic
— across the board are fully vaccinated. 

We’re getting lives back.  The American economy is coming back.  And
that’s the second reason we’re on the move.  I committed to an approach
of building an American economy, a re- — a different economy to build
back better, not just build back — build back better.  That approach
recognizes that we do — all do better when we all do well.  And the best
way to grow our economy is from the bottom up and the middle out. 

You know, I don’t have any anything against — against anybody in Wall
Street.  I don’t have anything against anybody making a million bucks,
but Wall Street did not build this country.  (Applause.)  The middle
class built this country, and unions built the middle class. 
(Applause.)  That’s a fact. 

An approach that recognizes that this time when we rebuild the middle
class, we have to bring everybody along, regardless of their background,
regardless of their religion, regardless of their race.  That’s the
approach reflected in the American Rescue Plan, which my friends in the
Congress helped get passed.

Because of that law, more than 167 million Americans got a rescue
payment of $1,400 that’s gone out helping families pay their rent, pay
their bills, buy their groceries — and maybe most important, gives them,
for the first time, some hope — a little bit of hope. 

Hope goes a long, long, long way.  Those checks matter. Small
businesses, restaurants are getting — were getting killed.  Now we’re
delivering the loans and support they need to reopen and stay open. 

Schools were struggling to reopen, so we made targeting vac- — teachers
to get the vaccine as a priority.  We delivered schools much-needed
support.  State and local governments — and you know, Mr. Mayor — a lot
of them had to lay off their employees — cops, firefighters, first
responders — because you have to balance your budget.

Well, now they’re coming back, thanks to the Rescue Plan. Beginning this
summer, families with children will get tax relief — tax credit — the
Child Tax Credit — which is going to deposit money directly into their
banks every month until that money is paid out. 

By the way, we had no problem passing a $2 trillion tax plan that went
to the top 1 percent that wasn’t paid for at all; it just increased the
debt $2 trillion.  Every time I talk about tax cuts for working-class
people, it’s, “Oh my god.”  (Laughter.)  “What are we going to do?” 
Well, we’re going to take back some of that 1 percent money and make
them pay for it.  (Applause.)

And thanks in part to a part of the Rescue Plan named for an Ohio labor
leader, Butch Lewis, championed by Sherrod Brown, who — I don’t think
Sherrod is here today — hundreds of thousands of retirees and workers
across Ohio and millions more across the country can trust that their
pensions they work so damn hard for and sacrificed to secure will be
there for them, unlike my dad who busted his neck his whole life, and
when the company went under, he lost his pension completely.

Even my Republican friends in Congress, not a single one of them voted
for the Rescue Plan.  I’m not going to embarrass any one of them, but I
have here a list — (laughter and applause) — of how, back in their
districts, they’re bragging about the Rescue Plan. 

They touted the re- — the Restaurant Revitalization Fund.  They touted
the fact that we’re in a situation where the — dealing with — touted
grants to community healthcare centers, touted — I mean, some people
have no shame.  (Laughter.) 

But I’m happy.  I’m happy they know that it’s benefited their
constituents.  That’s okay with me.  But if you’re going to try to take
credit for what you’ve done, don’t get in the way of what we still need
to do.  (Applause.)

The bottom line — the bottom line is this: The Biden economic plan is
working.  We’ve had record job creation.  We’re seeing record economic
growth.  We’re creating a new paradigm — one that rewards work, the
working people in this nation, not just those at the top.

We did a study: 85 percent of my Jobs Plan — or 95 percent of my Jobs
Plan, you don’t need a bachelor’s degree; 75 percent, you don’t even
need a degree that’s a community college degree — it helps, but guess
what?  The bottom line is that people are going to be going back to
work.  There’s a new bargain: Everyone is — is going to be in on the
deal this time. 

Now, as our economy recovers, there’s going to be some bumps in the
road; we know that — of course there will be.  You can’t reboot a global
economy like flipping on a light switch.  There’s going to be ups and
downs in jobs and economic reports.  There’s going to be supply chain
issues, price distortions on the way back to a stable and steady growth.

In the coming weeks, my administration will take steps to combat these
supply pressures, starting with the construction materials and
transportation bottlenecks, and building off the work we’re doing on
computer chips.  We’re also announcing new initiatives to combat
anti-competitive practices that hurt small businesses and families. 

Fixing those problems can help build a more dynamic, innovative economy,
and we’re going to have a lot more to say about that in the days ahead. 

But this — this is already clear: We’re on the right track.  The
American Rescue Plan laid a strong foundation for a new economy that
brings everybody along, but it’s just a first step.  We’re going to
build on the incentive and incredible progress that we’ve made and set
America on a sustainable path to a faster, more inclusive economic
growth.  We have to start investing in ourselves again and the American
people again. 

Consider this: Three decades ago, the United States was number one — and
some would argue number two — in the world for R&D spending — research
and development — as a share of our economy.  You know where we are now
in the international competition?  We’re number nine.  Nine. 

Meanwhile, China was number eight in their overall spending in research
and development three decades ago; they’re now number two.  Number two. 

This past year, Japan, Canada, Italy, France, and the EU have announced
significant infrastructure spending.  China has announced that they’re
increasing their research and development spending dramatically.  Japan
is making huge investments in reducing carbon emissions and building out
the digital capacity they have.  The — the European Union as well. 

We’re in a race to see who wins the 21st century.  Now if I could hold
just for a second here — one of the things I’ve found — I’ve s- — you
know, I’m supposedly — they’d always announce me in the past as an
expert in foreign policy.  Well, let me tell you something: Economic
policy is harder than foreign policy.  You know what the basis of
foreign policy is in our stature in the world?  One thing: our economic
prowess.  Our economic prowess. 

We must be number one in the world to lead the world in the 21st
century.  It’s a simple proposition.  (Applause.)

And the starting gun has already gone off.  We can’t afford to fall any
further behind.  Now is the time to build the foundation that we’ve laid
— to make bold investments in our families, in our communities, in our
nation.  We know from history that these kinds of investments raise both
the floor and the ceiling of the economy for everybody. 

Like, when we brought electricity to every household in the country in
1930s or we connected the country through the Interstate Highway System
in the ’50s.  They created millions of jobs, good-paying jobs.  They set
the economy up to grow more quickly and share prosperity more broadly
for decades to come.  Those electrical poles and wires still help power
rural communities 80 years after they were built, and it’s time now to
rebuild them. 

A quarter of all the miles Americans travel on roads are on the
Interstate Highway System built 60 years ago — 60 years after we build
it.  These are generational investments.  Private sector does not make
these kind of investments.  We’ve neglected that kind of public
investment for much too long. 

The pandemic exposed just how badly we need to invest in the foundation
of this country and the working people of this country.  That’s why I
proposed the American Jobs Plan and the American’s Family Plan — the
generational investments we need today to succeed for tomorrow. 

You know, as my wife Jill, who’s been a teacher for a long time — she
used to be about 10 years younger than me; now she’s 30 years younger
than me — (laughter) — and she is in every way, God love her. 
(Laughter.)  She’s the only First Lady ever to work full time — full
time.  She teaches 15 credits at a community college — 15 credits. 
She’s a remarkable person.  And she’s out in Missouri right now and
Kansas \[City\] doing other things — nothing to do with her job as a
teacher. 

But my point is this, Jill has a constant refrain: “Joey, any nation
that out-educates us is going to outcompete us.”  It’s a simple
proposition. 

You know, think about this: One of the reasons that — that caused us to
move ahead so significantly as a world leader — an economic leader in
the world was that in the late 1800s, early 1900s, we were the first
nation in the world to say, “We’re going to have 12 years of free —
without any limitation — free education.  Twelve years.” 

Now imagine if — and the rest of the world has caught up with us, and
they’ve now passed us in many cases.  Imagine if we were sitting today
and say, “We’re going to set up an education system.”  Does anybody
think 12 years of education is enough for us to compete in the world in
the second quarter of the 21st century?  I’m not joking.  Just — just
consciously think about that.  Is it enough?  It’s not. 

And so, I’m proposing four additional years of education: two years of
high-quality pre-K for three- and four-years-old — not in daycare, in
school.  The studies show that if you do that, those children have an
opportunity of 56 better — 56 percent better chance of going through all
12 years of school and beyond without getting into any trouble, no
matter what the background or the family they come from.  No matter
what.  On the front end, those two years are important. 

And then two years of free community college.  Free community college —
(applause) — to better prepare our people to get these good-paying jobs
of the future — jobs I saw students training for throughout the
Manufacturing Technology Center. 

You know, we need to invest in transportation infrastructure.  Drive
anywhere and you can see why we’re rated 13th in the world in
infrastructure.  The United States of America is viewed to have the
13th-best infrastructure in the world.  Come on.  This United States of
America, for God’s sake. 

We need to invest in universal high-speed Internet, more seamlessly
connect our businesses and their customers, expand the possibilities of
job opportunities in every hometown in America, no matter how big or
small. 

And, by the way, if you’ll hold for a second — think about this.  How
many of you men and women have children who were doing remote learning? 
Think of all the children throughout the country, in inner cities and in
rural areas, that had no Internet connection.  It’s estimated that some
of those kids are going to be pushed — although it’s only been one year
— three years behind in their education. 

Look, investment in high-growth industries like clean energy and
electric vehicles — it’s not just we want to deal with the environment. 
We want to lead the world in exports of these new technologies instead
of ceding the global market and job creation to the Chinese.  They’re
building 20 times as many electric vehicles as we’re doing now, and the
technology that goes with that.  What are we doing?  It’s millions of
jobs in China instead of here.  It’s not that it’s the jobs we’re going
to create here, but that we’re going to create to the export the
technology.  We used to be the net exporter of major technologies. 

I also think and am pushing very hard to make major investments in
medicines and cures of the future.  Folks, diseases like Alzheimer’s,
diabetes, cancer — they’re all on the cusp of being able to be dealt
with.  You know, if we don’t do something about Alzheimer’s in America,
every single, solitary hospital bed that exists in America — as the
nurses can tell you — every single one will be occupied in the next 15
years with an Alzheimer’s patient — every one — costing us in excess of
a trillion dollars. 

So what are we doing?  I came up with an idea, and I think is going to
get done.  And that is that — you know, there’s a thing called DARPA,
which is the Defense Applied Application Research — it’s an outfit that
came up with the Internet in the Defense Department, it came up with
geospacing and a whole range of things that are related to our
security.  I want to do the same thing at the NIH to focus on those
diseases. 

It’s estimated if we do spend — if we spend $5 billion a year on that
research and development, focusing with — on insurance companies can’t —
don’t have the money to focus on –we can make significant
breakthroughs.  We’re already doing that — already doing that.

If we invest, we can create millions of jobs rebuilding the foundation
of a strong, fair, resilient, competitive economy, and save hundreds of
thousands of lives. 

And 100 percent of our investment is going to be guided by one
principle: Make it in America.  Make it in America.  (Applause.)

If I can hold that for just a second, there is a law that was passed in
the ’30s — doesn’t violate any trade principle — saying that whatever
money — that whatever program that taxpayers are paying for, you can
spend it all on American contractors.  No one’s ever done it — though, I
promise you, I signed an executive order.  If in fact we’re building the
new deck of an aircraft carrier — well, guess what? — I get, as
President, to make — let contracts for over $600 billion a year. 

I promise you, there’ll be no contract let to a foreign company or any
of the product down the line.  Right now, what can happen is you can
hire an American company and they can sublet to — and they can — their
downstream product can all be foreign.  All you got to do is get that
particular agency to say, “You got an exception.  We can’t find that job
here in America.”

Well, guess what?  They’re going to find the job here in America, I
promise you, or they’re not going to get the contracts.  These jobs will
be good jobs — American jobs that deliver good wages and dignity. 

And look, this is about choice.  We can give — we can keep giving every
break in the world to corporations and CEOs, or we can raise the
corporate tax rate back to 28 percent.  It was, by the way, 36 percent. 
It came down to 28 percent, which is still lower than it was at any
point between World War One and 2017, and they’re making trillions of
dollars.

I’m going to tell you this to the press again: In the 10-year period
between ’14 and ’24 — excuse me, between ’10 and ’20 — 2010 and 2020,
they made over a trillion dollars.  I think that’s good.  You know what
they did with a trillion dollars?  They went out and they bought back 56
percent of their stock.  Because the more they buy back, the more
valuable the stock, and that’s how CEOs get paid.

CEOs used to get paid 35, 36 times to the average employee, and they
should get paid.  Now it’s over 370 times more than the average
employee.  As my mother would say, “Who died and left them boss?” 
(Laughter.)  No, I’m serious about it.

Now — so you got over 50 percent going to stock buybacks.  And the other
percent — I think it’s 42 percent — you get — let me see, 56 — it’s 40 —
no, it’s 38 percent goes to dividends, which is reasonable. 

But here’s the point.  After all is said and done, that leaves 8 percent
of that trillion dollars for research and development, salaries, new
product, new enterprises, new initiatives — 8 percent. 

I come from the corporate capital of the world, literally.  More
corporations are incorporated in the state of Delaware than in any place
in America combined — all the rest of the corporate registrations
combined don’t equal what’s in my state. 

It used to be corporations felt they had responsibilities beyond their
taxpayer — beyond their shareholders and beyond their executives.  But
what is it now?  The average CEO becomes a CEO for six to seven years. 

And by the way, capitalism has incentives.  One of the worst votes ever
made was during the Carter — the Clinton administration, to say a
corporation could not deduct in tax — deduct from their taxes more than
a million dollars of pay for any CEO.  So guess what they start doing? 
Eighty-some percent of CEOs now get paid in stock options. 

Why do you think they buy back the stock?  To raise the price in — of
the stock.  They’re not bad guys.  It’s just the incentives. 

So if we just raised the corporate tax to 28 percent, which is still
lower than where it was, as I said, between World War One and 2017, that
generates 90 billion additional dollars into the Treasury for a year,
per year.  That could put hundreds of thousands of people to work to
modernize our roads, our bridges, our ports, our airports, and pay for
it — pay for it.  (Applause.)

Put people to work to make sure every American has access to high-speed
Internet so businesses can compete in the 21st century, kids in every
community can get ahead.  Another choice.

We can ask the top 1 percent of the taxpayers in America to get — pay
the same tax rate they paid when George W. Bush was President.  You know
how much that would generate?  That would generate $13 billion per year,
allowing every student in America to go to community college for free. 

When I was in the last administration that I was part of — Obama-Biden —
the President asked me to find out what the major corporate entities
thought was the most important thing they needed.  We interviewed over
340 — I think it was 348 CEOs.  You know what they said — everyone of
them?  A better-educated workforce. 

But they’re not spending money to educate the workforce, so imagine what
we’d do — corporate America benefits with a better-educated population. 
Do you want to give the wealthiest people in America another tax cut?  I
— by the way, I don’t begrudge them the money they made, just start
paying your fair share, just a little bit. 

In consequence, it would help every high school graduate earn an
education like students here at Tri-C, one that puts people on a path to
good-paying jobs in industries of the future. 

Look, I know — I know you know what’s best for America.  And by the way,
better-educated public helps everybody.  Look, my plan is — my plan is
the right way to invest, spreading key investments over time so we limit
the price pressure. 

This is the right time to invest when we have historically low interest
rates, investing now with a plan to pay for it.  That is the fiscally
responsible thing to do. 

Of course, there are critics out there who want to stand still.  By the
way, some of those critics are the same people who said that money was
no object when it came, as I said, to that $2 trillion tax cut that went
to the wealthiest 1 percent of America, who hold 30 percent of all the
wealth in the country. 

But when we need to fix a road or a water system, or help millions of
people return to the workforce by helping them afford childcare or
eldercare, or help afford — attend — the ability to attend Tri-C, they
think that’s — that’s a bridge too far. 

Investing in America again is going to create growth and more jobs, but
there’s something else we have to do to ensure the high-quality jobs
exist.  We must restore the connection between the success of our
economy and the people who produce that success — hardworking
Americans.  The connection has been severed. 

You all remember — it used to be the case in this country when you were
a part of generating success of a company, you got to share in the
benefits.  That’s long since gone — not a joke. 

And by the way, I — I’m a capitalist.  But here’s the deal: From 1948
after the war, to 1977 — I think it was 1977 — ’79 — productivity in
America grew by 100 percent.  We made more things — productivity.  You
know what the workers’ pay grew?  By 100 percent. 

Since 1979, all that changed.  Produc- — productivity has grown four
times faster than pay has grown.  The basic bargain in this country has
been broken.  If you work hard and contribute to the success of
enterprise, you get to share in the success — that’s not the case
anymore — so you could carve out your place in the middle class. 

That’s how it happens.  That’s how it works in healthy capitalist
economies.  But along the way, we started seeing the stock market and
corporate profits and executive pay as the sole measure of our economic
success. 

Let me tell you something.  My sole measure of economic success is how
working families are doing, whether they have jobs that deliver
dignity.  That means we have to focus on wages like we used to.

When it comes to the economy we’re building, rising wages aren’t a bug;
they’re a feature.  We want to get — we want to get something economists
call “full employment.”  Instead of workers competing with each other
for jobs that are scarce, we want employees to compete with each other
to attract work.  We want the — the companies to compete to attract
workers. 

That kind of competition in the market doesn’t just give workers more
ability to earn a higher wage, it gives them the power to demand to be
treated with dignity and respect in the workplace.  And it helps ensure
that America — when you walk into work, you don’t have to check your
right to be treated with respect at the door. 

“Full employment” also means more options and opportunities for workers
— including Black, Hispanic workers, Amer- — Asian American workers,
women — who’ve been left behind in previous economic recoveries when the
labor market never tighten- — tightened up enough. 

Look, this isn’t just good for individual workers, it also makes our
economy a whole lot stronger.  When American workers have more money to
spend, American businesses benefit.  We all benefit.  Higher wages and
more options for workers are a good thing. 

A lot of companies have done extremely well in this crisis, and good for
them.  Good for them.  The simple fact is, though, corporate profits are
the highest they’ve been in decades, and workers’ pay is at the lowest
it has been in 70 years. 

We have more than ample room to raise workers pay without raising
customer prices.  Soaring corporate profits and stagnant wages aren’t
the American Dream, and they aren’t the American deal. 

Look, I’m not looking to punish anyone or to say business shouldn’t be
able to make a significant profit.  I understand the risk and challenges
businessowners face, and they should be rewarded for the success and the
risks they take.  I just think, after decades of workers getting a raw
deal, it’s time they be given a fair shake.  (Applause.)

Well, wait until you see what happens when employers have to compete for
workers.  Companies like McDonald’s, Home Depot, Bank of America, and
others — what do they have to do?  They have to raise wages to attract
workers.  That’s the way it’s supposed to be. 

And we got to do two more things.  Congress should raise the minimum
wage to $15 an hour.  (Applause.)  No one — no one should work 40 hours
a week and live in poverty, live below the poverty level.  And we ought
to pass the Protect the Right to Organize — the PRO Act — supported by
union workers.  (Applause.)

Look, let me close with this.  You know, it’s an overused phrase these
days, but it’s still accurate: We’re at an inflection point in American
history.  It happens every several generations.  We have a chance to
seize the economic momentum of the first months of my administration not
just to build back, but to build back better. 

And this time, we’re going to deal everyone in — everyone that has been
left out — and breathe new life into the middle class and new hope into
those struggling to break into the middle class. 

We have a chance to make investments that Moody’s — not a liberal think
tank — Wall Street, Moody’s — says my plan will increase the size of our
economy by $4.5 trillion — Moody’s —  $4.5 trillion over the next
decade, and create well over 16 million new good-paying jobs. 

If we make these investments now, in 50 years, people are going to look
back — and not even that long — your children or grandchildren will look
back and say this was the moment when America won the future.  Won the
future. 

Folks, I’ve said it a thousand times — I mean it from the bottom of my
heart: There is not a single thing America can’t do when we do it
together.  Never.  We’re the only country in the world that has — when
we set our mind to something, that has never ever, ever, ever failed. 

This is an opportunity for the wealthy to stay wealthy, the poor to have
a shot at the middle class, and the middle class to be able to breathe
more easily.  That’s what this is about.  But this time, bring everybody
along — everybody. 

Thank you.  And God bless you.  And may God protect our troops.  Thank
you.  (Applause.)

3:02 P.M. EDT
