---
tags: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-05-04'
modified_time: 2021-05-04 19:57:33-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/05/04/remarks-by-president-biden-on-the-covid-19-response-and-the-vaccination-program/
published_time: 2021-05-04 19:57:32-04:00
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden on the COVID-\u206019 Response and the Vaccination\_\
  Program"
---
 
State Dining Room 

2:35 P.M. EDT

THE PRESIDENT:  Good afternoon. Today, two months until July 4th, I’m
here to report that we’re — we’re in our vaccination program — where we
are and what comes next in an effort to get this country back closer to
normal.  
  
And first: Where are we? Well, as everyone knows, I promised that we’d
administer 100 million shots in my first 100 days. After we met that
goal, we doubled it to a — a historic 200 million shots. By the time we
reached 100 days last week, we had shattered that mark with over 220
million shots in arms.  
  
And as we stand here today, almost 150 million Americans have gotten at
least one shot.  Over 105 million Americans are fully vaccinated.  And
among our most vulnerable population — seniors — we are nearing 85
percent of those who have gotten their first shot. Seventy percent of
the seniors are now fully vaccinated.  It’s a dramatic turnaround from
where we were in January, when less than 2 percent of adults and less
than 1 percent of seniors were fully vaccinated.   
  
Not only that, cases are down in 40 states these past two weeks.  Deaths
are down dramatically since January — down over 80 percent among
seniors, which includes a drop among Hispanics of 80 percent and among
African Americans of 70 percent of seniors.    
  
There are tens of thousands of Americans alive today because — who would
not be alive otherwise were they not — had access to rapid vaccination
program.  Moms and dads, sisters and brothers, grandparents, neighbors,
old friends — they’re around now, and God — thank God for that.  
  
Now, where do we go from here?  Well, as we anticipated, the pace of
vaccinations is slowing now that the majority of American adults have
already gotten their first shot.  But we are still vaccinating millions
of Americans every day.   
  
In fact, in the last 10 days, 1 out of every 10 adult Americans got a
shot.  But, soon, we’ll have reached the adults who are most eager to
get vaccinated, and, at that point, this effort will shift to a new
phase, which is what I want to talk about today.  
  
Our new phase will focus on three areas.  First, kids, children between
the ages of 12 and 15 years of age.  They are not yet eligible for a
vaccine.  The FDA’s scientists are currently reviewing the data to
decide if — if and when to authorize that age range for vaccinations. 
The FDA — and the FDA alone — will make that decision.  
  
But today, I want American parents to know that if that announcement
comes, we are ready to move immediately –immediately move to make about
20,000 pharmacy sites across the country ready to vaccinate those
adolescents as soon as the FDA grants it’s okay.     
  
Now, most Americans have a vaccination site about as close as their
house is near to a neighborhood school.  We’re also going to slip
\[sic\] vaccines directly to pediatricians — ship them to pediatricians
during the following weeks.  So parents and their children can talk to
their family doctor about it and get the shot from a provider they trust
the most — easy, fast, and free.  
  
And if teens are on the move this summer, they can get their first shot
in one place and the second shot elsewhere.  We know that adolescents
are at risk from COVID-19.  Though serious illness at that age range is
rare, they can still get sick and spread the virus to others.  
  
So, my hope is that if the vaccine is authorized, parents will take
advantage of it and get their kids vaccinated.  
  
The second area of focus is making it more convenient for everyone to
get a vaccine. We know that many adults have not been vaccinated because
they have found it too confusing or too difficult or too inconvenient to
get a shot.  
  
So for those having trouble finding a location or making an appointment,
we’re going to make it easier than ever.  We have formally launched a
simple website where you can find a vaccination location closest to
you.  That site is: Vaccines.gov.  Let me say it again: Vaccines.gov. 
Go there now, find a location to get the shot, and make an
appointment.  
  
Also today, if you prefer texting, we have another easy way to get the
shot. Text your — your ZIP code to the following number: 438829.  Your
ZIP code to that number: 438829.  And you will get a text back with the
location that is nearest to you with vaccines in stock right then and
there.  Yes, you can text your ZIP code right now to 438829 and get
texted back within minutes with the place that’s nearest to you to get a
vaccination that are available immediately.  
  
So send this to your kids, your grandkids, your friends who have not
been vaccinated yet.   
  
Now, I know some people find making an appointment in advance
inconvenient.  So, starting this week, we are also going to direct all
federal pharmacy partners to begin to provide walk-in hours.  You’ll
soon be able to get vaccinated without an appointment at the vast
majority of our 40,000 pharmacy locations across the country.    
  
We also are encouraging our state and local partners to have a walk-in
ability as well to the sites that they run.  
  
And beginning next week, we’ll be shipping new allocations of vaccine to
rural health clinics, getting more vaccines to more rural clinics so
Americans who don’t live near one of the 75,000 vaccination sites will
have new options that may be closer — may be closer than anything they
thought.  
  
We know that vaccination rates are lower in rural areas, and that’s why
we’re going to get vaccines closer than ever to rural residents.  
  
Also, as we wind down the large mass vaccination sites, we will move
towards smaller locations even more convenient to the unvaccinated.  So,
for those who don’t want to drive the distance to a large vaccination
site, we will have sites — smaller sites — closer to the
unvaccinated.   
  
And for the first 100 days, our goal will be to make it possible for
people to come and get vaccinated, and we’ll succeed beyond anyone’s
expectations, I believe.    
  
Now we are going to have to bring the vaccine to people who are less
eager.  So we also know that there are millions of Americans who just
need a little bit of encouragement to get the shot.  
  
I recently called on employers to do their part by offering paid time
off for employees to get vaccinated and opening up a tax credit program
that reimburses the businesses for the cost of giving the employee the
time off to get vaccinated.  And I want to thank the 1,000 businesses
that have stepped up so far.  
  
We’re also going to roll out new partnerships with the business
community.  We’re working with major businesses, like grocery stores, to
provide special deals like discounts to shoppers who come to their
stores to get vaccinated.  The — and it works both ways.  Bring them in
to get vaccinated, but when they’re in, they will get discounts to
purchase goods in that store.  
  
Further, we’re working with major sports leagues to launch special
promotions for their fans — things like ticket giveaways, in-stadium
vaccination programs, discounts on merchandise, and other creative ways
to make it easier and more fun to get vaccinated.  Now, I’m making it
sound more fun to get vaccinated, but it doesn’t hurt to get
vaccinated.  I’m not saying it’s fun, but they’ll be able to have other
things available to them besides being protected from the virus.    
  
Let me repeat: We’re going to make it easier than ever to get
vaccinated.  Visit vaccines.<s>gum</s>\[gov\] — .gov —
vaccines.<s>gum</s> \[gov\] — or text to — your — text your ZIP Code to:
438829 — 438829.  Walk into your local pharmacy without an appointment.
Go to the doctor or a local health clinic. It’s free. It’s nearby. Every
adult is eligible. You know, go get the shot as soon as you can.  
  
The third area of our focus is Americans who still aren’t sure they want
to get vaccinated.  We’ve seen the confidence in vaccines rise steadily
these past few months among virtually every segment of the population.  
  
And as more and more Americans see their friends and family get
vaccinated, they’re making the choice to get vaccinated themselves. 
Democrats and Republicans, progressives, conservatives — people of all
persuasions — are getting vaccinated.   
  
In fact — the fact is that nearly 85 percent of seniors have had at
least one vaccination shot, and the wide cross-section of the nation
trust the vaccine regardless of race or ideology.  
  
Now we need to make that same progress for those under 65 years of age. 
There are a lot of younger people, especially those in their 20s and
30s, who believe they don’t need it.  
  
Well, I want to be absolutely clear: You do need to get vaccinated. 
Getting vaccinated not only protects you, it also reduces the risk that
you give the virus to somebody else.  It could save your life or the
lives of people you love.  
  
We’re still losing hundreds of Americans under 65 years of age every
week, and many more are getting seriously ill from long stretches of the
time.   
  
Look, even if your chance — even if your chance of getting seriously ill
is low, why take the risk when you have a safe, free, and convenient way
to prevent it?  
  
Additionally, we know that some people may need more information to
decide whether to get the vaccine.  There is now plenty of information
for people to do their homework with — in nearly 150 million Americans
living — in fact, with 150 million Americans that are living now have
gotten the vaccine.  
  
Talk to someone you trust like your physician or your pharmacist or
people who have already been vaccinated.  Talk to your faith leaders or
others in your community that you trust.  Look to those people to help
answer your questions.   
  
I want to be clear.  I’ve been saying this a long time, but I really
believe it: This is not a Democrat or a Republican issue.   
  
The science behind the vaccines has been under development for decades. 
Two of our vaccines were authorized under prior administrations —
Republican administrations.  My administration — a Democratic
administration — is doing the work to get hundreds of millions of shots
in arms.  While we may not always agree on everything, this is one thing
people across the political spectrum can agree on.   
  
So, I want to thank the prominent conservatives, like Mitch McConnell,
and a large group of Republican members of Congress who have — who have
medical training, who have advanced getting vaccinated.   
  
I also want to thank the 105 million Americans of every background who
are fully protected from one of the deadliest pandemics in our
history.   
  
You know, there’s a lot of misinformation out there.  But there’s one
fact I want every American to know: People who are not fully vaccinated
can still die every day from COVID-19.  Look at the folks in your
community who have gotten vaccinated and are getting back to living
their lives — their full lives.  Look at the grandparents united with
their grandchildren, the friends getting together again.  This is your
choice.  It’s life and death.   
  
And I hope everyone knows within themselves, it makes the choice that
will — it’s going to help them and their loved ones be safe, get our
businesses open again, and get us back to normal.  
  
Again, in the next two months, our focus is going to be on three groups:
kids between 12 and 15 who are awaiting potential FDA authorization to
get a shot; two, adults who have had trouble locating a place to get a
shot or who just haven’t gotten around to it; and three, those who need
more convincing — be convinced of the necessity of getting the
vaccine.  
  
As we turn to this new phase, we’re also setting a new goal.  Two months
from today — two months from today, families across the country are
going to celebrate the Fourth of July.  Our goal by July 4th is to have
70 percent of adult Americans with at least one shot and 160 million
Americans fully vaccinated.   
  
That means giving close to 100 million shots — some first shots, others
second shots — over the next 60 days.  Of course, Americans can still
get shots after July 4th, but no one should wait.  And let’s try to hit
that 70 percent mark at least with one shot before that day.  It’s
another huge goal.   
  
And as you may remember, we were initially focused on getting enough
vaccines for every adult.  Well, we did that.  We have enough vaccines. 
Now that we have the vaccine supply, we’re focused on convincing even
more Americans to show up and get the vaccine that is available to
them.   
  
If we succeed in this effort, as we did with the last, then Americans
will have taken a serious step towards a return to normal: That’s July
4th.  
  
But we’re not there yet.  That’s why I’m asking people to continue to
follow the CCD guide- — CDC guidelines as we work to get more — more
people vaccinated.  
  
And to clear up any confusion, the good news is that, last week, the CDC
said that vaccinated people do not need to wear their masks outside
unless they’re at very crowded settings like a sporting event.   
  
And if we can continue to drive vaccinations up and caseloads down,
we’ll need our masks even less and less.  I know it will take time to
get everyone back to — everything back to normal.  You know, we’re all
going to have to be patient with one another.  Masks have needlessly
divided this country.  Masking as directed is a patriotic duty, but so
too is treating each other with respect and patience.   
  
One final point: As I said in my address to Congress last week,
<s>Congress</s> \[America\] is going to be “the arsenal” for fighting
COVID-19, just like we were for — the arsenal for democracy in World War
Two — not only because it will have kept us safe, but because of — it’s
who we are.   
  
Well, we’re — we’ve already committed to work to send 60 million doses
of AstraZeneca vaccine to other countries, starting this month and into
June.  That means of all the vaccines we’ve produced for the United
States at that time, we’ll have given about 10 percent to the rest of
the world.  It’s a significant humanitarian commitment, in addition to
our funding of COVAX.  And I’ll have more to say about that soon.   
  
I’ll conclude with this: The light at the end of the tunnel is actually
growing brighter and brighter.  So Americans have sacrificed and served
to make this progress possible, showing the best of who we are as a
people.  We need you — we need you to bring it home.  Get vaccinated.   
  
In two months, let’s celebrate our independence as a nation, and our
independence of this virus.  We can do this.  We will do this.   
  
Thank you all.  May God bless you.  And may God protect our troops. 
Thank you.  
  
Q    Mr. President, (inaudible) to help India?  
  
Q    Mr. President, how much harder will this next phase be for the
vaccination campaign?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  I’m sorry.  You were both speaking.  One at a time.  
  
Q    Mr. President, where are you sending the AstraZeneca doses first? 
What will be the criteria?  Countries like India or Brazil that needs
the most, or would it be to —  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  We’re helping Brazil — we’re helping India
significantly.  I spoke to Prime Minister Modi.  What he needs most is
he needs the material and the parts to be able to have his machines that
can make the vaccine work.  We’re sending them that.  We’re sending them
oxygen.  We’re sending them a lot of the precursors.  So, we’re doing a
lot for India.  
  
With regard —  
  
Q    How about Brazil?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Let me finish.  With regard to the AstraZeneca vaccine,
which we had, we have sent that vaccine to Canada and to Mexico.  And
there are other countries that we’re talking to now.  As a matter of
fact, I talked to a head of state today.   
  
I’m not prepared to announce who else we’ll be — we’ll be giving the
vaccine to.  But we are going to, by the Fourth of July, have sent about
10 percent of what we have to other nations, including some of the ones
you mentioned.  
  
Q    How much harder will this next phase be for the administration? 
How much harder compared to the first 100 days?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Well, I think, in one sense, it’s easier in that it’s up
to convincing the American people rather than guaranteeing them we’d
have the supply for them.  So that was really hard.  It was really hard
to get from — you know, as that old expression, 0 to 60 miles an hour —
to — it was get- — very hard to get from a very low count to 600 million
vaccines, and then set up all of the logistics.  
  
But I think what’s going to happen — it’s my prayer — that more and more
people who get vaccinated are going to be listening to people who they
love and — and are around, and they’re going to say, “Why don’t you just
go ahead and do it?”  And there’s some evidence — we still had a good
dose of vaccine being administered the last two weeks, and it’s still
moving.  
  
But we know we’re going to get to a place where the doubters exist or
the people who just are — I don’t want to say “lazy” — just not sure how
to get to where they want to go.  It’s going to be hard.  So, we’re
going to keep at it.  We’re going to keep at it.   
  
And, I think, at the end of the day, most people will be convinced by
the fact that their failure to get the vaccine may cause other people to
get sick and maybe die.  And —  
  
Q    Mr. President, if this phase —  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Let me finish here.  Okay?  I promise I’ll get to you.  
  
Q    Okay.  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Okay?  
  
And so, it’s — in one sense, it’s harder — I mean, it’s easier because I
don’t have to put together this massive logistical effort.  But in the
other sense, it’s harder; it’s beyond my personal control.  I could —
not “control” — but I could arrange and make sure those other things
happened if we did it well, and I think we did.  But it’s going to be
harder.  
  
Yes, ma’am.  
  
Q    Thank you.  If this phase is not successful, are there any
circumstances under which you would require the vaccine for people to do
certain things, like travel?  And, if not, what more can you do beyond
this?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Well, I’m not going to — you know, I’m one of these guys
who thinks — thinks positively and not negatively.  So, there’s more
that we can do.  One of the things we can do is we can continue to
produce more of the vaccine, work harder to get it available to more
people, and export a lot of that to help.  
  
Secondly, whether we’re going to — I think that we’re going to continue
to — I don’t think — we’re going to continue to try to bring in — in,
effectively, spokespersons who represent communities that, in fact,
people listen to.  And it’s going to get more granular, I think, rather
than large.   
  
The likelihood of us being able to get, you know, 100,000 vaccinations
in a week at a major site is getting harder and harder.  There’s — those
people desperately wanted to get the vaccine.  
  
So, we’ll — I think we’re going to make some real progress here.  We’ll
see.  But we’re going to keep at it.  
  
Q    Can you say whether you’ve spoken — can you say whether you’ve
spoken to your Trade Representative?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Say it again?  
  
Q    Can you say whether you’ve spoken to your Trade Representative yet,
Katherine Tai, about the issue of issuing waivers on vaccine patents? 
Is that something you would support?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Well, we’re going to decide that as we go along.  I
haven’t made that decision yet.  
  
Q    Would you consider ordering more doses from Pfizer and Moderna?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  We are.  
  
Q    You’ve already ordered 100 million more from each.  Would you
order, additionally, on top of that?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  The answer is: We’re going to — as long as there is a
problem anywhere in the world — even if we solve it here — we’re going
to move as quickly as we can to get as many doses of Moderna and Pfizer
as possibly can be produced, and export those around the world.  
  
Yes, ma’am.  This is the last question.  
  
Q    Mr. President, thank you.  Are you planning to meet President Putin
during your trip — your upcoming trip in Europe?  Is there a meeting
that you’re planning to have with him?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  With who?  
  
Q    With President Putin.  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  That is my hope and expectation.  We’re working on it.  
  
Q    A follow-up, Mr. President —  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you.  
  
Q    Mr. President, why can’t you go higher for vaccinations?  The U.S.
is currently administering about a million first doses per day. 
Thirty-five million — you’d need about thirty-five million new people to
hit 70 percent.  Why not set that target for 75 percent or 80 percent of
the public?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Well, I’d like to get it at 100 percent.  But I think,
realistically, we can get to that place between now and July 4th.   
  
And by the way, it’s not like July 4th, the doors close.  It’s just — I
picked July 4th to try to get to a place where we get back closer to
normal.  And so — we’re going to be vaccinating people into next fall. 
It’s not going to — this is not going to — something that, all of a
sudden, July 4th, we’re — we’re going to just declare it’s over.  
  
Thank you so much.  
  
2:58 P.M. EDT
