---
tags: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-05-21'
modified_time: 2021-05-21 18:40:26-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/05/21/remarks-by-president-biden-and-president-moon-jae-in-of-the-republic-of-korea-before-bilateral-meeting/
published_time: 2021-05-21 19:00:00-04:00
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden and President Moon Jae-in of the Republic of Korea\
  \ Before Bilateral\_Meeting"
---
 
State Dining Room

3:55 P.M. EDT

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  I am honored to have President Moon here at the White
House today for the second foreign leader visit, head-of-state visit in
my presidency. 

The United States and the Republic of Korea are allies with a long
history of shared sacrifice.  And in a personal note, I want to thank
the President for being with me today as I had the great honor of
presenting the Congressional Medal of Honor to a Ranger in his mid-90s
who was — showed incredible acts of valor and bravery in Korea during
the Korean War.  The President was kind enough to come spend the entire
time there and personally congratulate our honoree. 

And I also want to point out that our history of shared sacrifice and
our cooperation is vital to maintaining peace and stability in a
critical region of the world.  President Moon and I and our teams have
had good meetings addressing our shared agenda.  We had a private
meeting in which my staff kept coming out and saying, “You’re over
time.  You’re over time.”  But I enjoyed our meeting so much that we
caused us to move everything back. 

But I look forward to continuing our discussion today here and in
growing the U.S.-ROK relationship further as we take on new challenges
and we take them on together.

Mr. President, the floor is yours.

PRESIDENT MOON:  (As interpreted.)  Thank you, Mr. President.  I’d like
to express my deep gratitude to President Biden and the American people
for extending such a warm hospitality to me and my delegation.  And my
congratulations on how the U.S. is becoming an example of the — for the
world as it succeeds in overcoming COVID-19, achieving economic
recovery, and uniting the nation under President Biden’s leadership.

Korea and the U.S. are strong allies, forged more than 70 years ago. 
America is our everlasting friend who helped us and led us in our times
of direst need. 

And I’m very pleased to visit the U.S. as my first overseas trip
destination since the spread of COVID-19 and meet President Biden and
his new team.

Even in the midst of COVID-19 crisis, our two countries left the door
open to each other, helped with each other’s fight against the virus,
and kept our people and goods flow. 

And we are seeing increasing cases of successful cooperation between our
two countries’ businesses and industries that will shape the
post-COVID-19 era, such as semiconductors, batteries, and
communication.  An expanding cooperation between the U.S. — a center of
global business — and Korea — a rising economic hub of East Asia — will
be a breakthrough in economic recovery for not only the two countries,
but the entire world.

In previous meetings with President Biden, we affirmed our joint
commitment to strengthening the ROK-U.S. alliance and bringing peace on
the Korean Peninsula.  I believe our peoples will be delighted to hear
this a day shy of our 139th anniversary of our diplomatic relations. 

And Korea will closely work with the U.S. to achieve complete
denuclearization and establish permanent peace on the Korean Peninsula.

The world is welcoming America’s return and keeping their hopes high for
America’s leaders to do more than ever before.  President Biden,
himself, also underscored the importance of building back better and
expressed his willingness to resolve common challenges of humanity with
the power of example.

Although tricky challenges lie ahead of us, as allies that share core
values, our two countries will actively work together to address global
challenges such as COVID-19, economic recovery, and climate change.  And
we will usher in a new era.

Following our meeting today, I look forward to welcoming President Biden
again in Seoul, the Republic of Korea, in not-too-distant future.  Thank
you very much.

Q    Mr. President, do you think the ceasefire will hold in Israel?

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  I’ll have time to answer your questions later.  Thank
you.

4:03 P.M. EDT 
