---
category: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-05-04'
modified_time: 2021-05-04 22:29:24-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/05/04/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-at-the-virtual-washington-conference-on-the-americas/
published_time: 2021-05-04 22:29:23-04:00
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris at the Virtual Washington Conference on the\_\
  Americas"
---
 
South Court Auditorium  
Eisenhower Executive Office Building

  
9:40 A.M. EDT  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Good morning.  Good morning.  It is truly an honor
to be with you today.  And thank you, Andrés Gluski, Susan Segal,
<s>Erin</s> \[Eric\] Farnsworth, for your leadership.   
  
The membership of the Council of the Americas includes so many leaders
who are truly committed to strengthening economies and democracies
throughout the Western Hemisphere.  And I’m very pleased to join you
today.   
  
Last week, President Joe Biden and I reached the 100th day of our
administration.  In that time, we have let the world know — and the
President has been very clear about this — America is back.   
  
We have rejoined the Paris Agreement.  We are ending our nation’s
longest war.  We are rebuilding our alliances and engaging partners all
over the world.  And we are revitalizing our relationships throughout
the Western Hemisphere from the southernmost parts of South America, to
the northernmost parts of Canada, and everywhere in between.  
  
The Western Hemisphere is our home.  And because it is our home, because
the people within it are our neighbors, it is imperative that we promote
democracy and good governance, security, and prosperity within the
region.   
  
It is also important that we build relationships throughout the
hemisphere that are based on <s>dignicy</s> \[dignity\] and diplomacy —
relationships that are both candid and collaborative.   
  
The strength of the United States of America depends on the strength of
all of the Western Hemisphere.  In so many ways, our fates are
intertwined.  That is especially true of Latin America, one of our
fastest-growing trade partners.   
  
To be sure, our relationship with Latin America is bigger than trade. 
And our relationship is incredibly complex and, at times, has been
incredibly complicated.  Today, I want to make clear that our
administration firmly believes in the potential of the region and in the
power of the people of the region.   
  
Latin Americans are shaping their own future.  They are writing their
own story.  They hold the pen.  As I see it, our role is to read those
words, take them in, and help however we can as Latin America writes its
own next chapter.  Put another way: The United States is committed to
supporting the vision of the people in the region in their need for
relief, in their hope for opportunity, in their calls for justice.   
  
Eight years ago, President Joe Biden addressed this conference.  Then
Vice President, he led our nation’s diplomatic efforts within the
Northern Triangle and with Mexico.  Recently, he asked me to take the
lead.  This is a priority for our nation and a role that I take very
seriously.   
  
We are all well aware of the immediate situation.  The citizens of El
Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras are leaving their homes at alarming
rates.  But there’s a fundamental truth behind that headline: People in
the region do not want to leave their homes.  They do not want to leave
the communities they have known their entire lives — the church they go
to every Sunday, the park they take their children to, their friends,
their family, their community.   
  
I do believe they leave only when they feel they must.  And I’m thinking
about people whose homes have been washed away by hurricanes.  People
who are parents who have sons who have been threatened by drug cartels. 
People who have daughters who have been targeted by human traffickers. 
People who do not have enough to eat.  People who are out of work. 
People who have lost hope.   
  
And that’s why they leave home and come to the United States: They are
suffering.  They are in pain.  Many are experiencing unimaginable
anguish.  
  
So we want to help.  Our administration wants to help.  We want to pick
back up the kind of work President Joe Biden started when he was Vice
President.  We want to help people find hope at home.  And so we are
focused on addressing both the acute factors and the root causes of
migration.  I believe this is an important distinction.  We must focus
on both.   
  
First, the acute factors — the catastrophes that are causing people to
leave right now: the hurricanes, the pandemic, the drought, and extreme
food insecurity.  
  
And then there are the longstanding issues — the root causes — and I’m
thinking of corruption, violence, and poverty; the lack of economic
opportunity; the lack of climate adaptation and climate resilience; the
lack of  
good governance.  
  
Just this weekend, we learned that the Salvadoran Parliament moved to
undermine its nation’s highest court. An independent judiciary is
critical to a healthy democracy  
and a strong economy.  
  
On this front, on every front, we must respond.  
  
     So there is much work that needs to be done to combat violence in
the Northern Triangle — violence against  
Afro-descendants, violence against Indigenous people, violence against
LGBTQ people, violence against young people, violence against women.  
  
And I’ve spent much of my career defending survivors of sexual assault
and domestic violence.  I have fought for  
the equality and the safety of every group I just named.  And I believe,
as I know all of you do, that we must stand up for the  
basic human rights of all people.  And when those rights are violated, I
will say it again, we must respond.  
  
In El Salvador, in the face of violence, we must focus  
on high-crime areas and give young people alternatives to gang
recruitment.  
  
In Honduras, in the wake of hurricanes, we must deliver food, shelter,
water, and sanitation to the people.  
  
And in Guatemala, as farmers endure continuous droughts,  
we must work with them to plant drought-resistant crops.  We must also
help them and help women farmers increase their harvests.  
  
This work makes a difference.   However, no matter how much effort we
put in — on curbing violence, on providing disaster relief, on tackling
food insecurity, on any of it — we will not make significant progress if
corruption in the region persists.  
  
If corruption persists, history has told us, it will be  
one step forward and two steps back.  And we know corruption causes
government institutions to collapse from within, preventing people from
getting their children educated, from getting a business started, from
getting a fair trial.  
  
In the Northern Triangle, we also know that corruption prevents us from
creating the conditions on the ground to best attract investment.  And
around the world, we know that corruption inhibits shared prosperity. 
In fact, the global cost of corruption is as much as 5 percent of the
world’s GDP — 5 percent.   
  
     The work from combatting corruption to combating climate change
will not be easy, and it is not new, and it could not be more
important.  And it will take all of us — all of us.  The United States
cannot do it alone.  With all of us gathered here today, I’m very
hopeful about what we can accomplish together.   
  
Our administration is implementing a comprehensive strategy with
governments and international institutions, the private sector,
foundations, and community organizations.  The idea here is that our
work will be coordinated and that every sector will have a role to
play.  
  
First: regional governments.  Governments in the region can take on
corruption, lift their communities, and provide safety and security for
their citizens.   
  
For instance, last week, I had a bli- — bilateral meeting with the
Guatemalan President, and we agree to strengthen cooperation to shut
down human traffickers and smugglers.  In just a few days, I will meet
virtually with the President of Mexico.  And in a month from now, I will
visit both countries.   
  
Second, there is a role for governments outside of the region and
international institutions.  The United States Ambassador to the United
Nations is working within the U.N. to support their humanitarian
response plan.   
  
I’ve also spoken with world leaders from Canada, Finland, Ireland, Japan
about partnering with us to help the Northern Triangle.   
  
And for our part, the United States has announced that we will send an
additional $310 million to the region.  Departments and agencies across
our federal government are joining in this effort.  The United States
Department of Commerce is planning a virtual trade mission.  Our
Agricultural Department is increasing food assistance.  USAID has
deployed a Disaster Assistance Response Team.   
  
And as I told our Cabinet secretaries, we must be ambitious and
deliberate.  We must also be proactive not just in the Northern
Triangle, but across Latin America.   
  
Third, we must think beyond government.  I’ve spoken with foundation
leaders who have been sending support to the region for a long time and
are now prepared to do more.  I’ve also been engaging with a number of
businesses in the United States and business leaders in the United
States about their interest in investing in the region and the barriers
that may stand in their way.  Private-sector investments can create jobs
and speed up progress.   
  
Meanwhile, community organizations can help us implement a place-based
approach targeting those communities that have been hardest hit. 
Community organizations will also help us to restore hope.   
  
Last Tuesday, I had a virtual meeting with a group of longstanding
community leaders in Guatemala.  They talked about the work they have
been doing to feed people, to house people, to find people jobs all
while taking on relentless corruption.  It is hard and difficult work
that they do.  And they are 100 percent committed to it.  And they’ve
committed their lives to it.  They are committed to building a better
life for all of those people they serve.   
  
And when I met with those leaders, I was reminded not only of the
region’s problems, but also of its potential — its potential to recover,
its potential to rebuild, its potential to write its next chapter.   
  
It is in that spirit that the United States will continue this work,
knowing that we are neighbors, knowing that our strength depends on one
another and that our hope grows together.   
  
Thank you.  And may God bless you.  Thank you.  
  
9:53 A.M. EDT
