---
category: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-05-20'
modified_time: 2021-05-20 20:02:34-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/05/20/remarks-by-president-biden-at-signing-of-the-covid-19-hate-crimes-act/
published_time: 2021-05-20 20:02:33-04:00
title: "Remarks by President Biden at Signing of the COVID- \u2060 19 Hate Crimes\
  \ Act"
---
 
East Room

2:33 P.M. EDT  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  (Applause.)  Thank you.  Thank you.  Please, thank you. 
Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you.   
  
Susan, progress is possible.  We’re moving.  
  
Good afternoon, everyone.  As I said from the beginning of my campaign,
Madam Speaker, that the campaign for President –throughout, you would
call me and tell me, “Keep it up” — was about bringing people together,
about uniting the country.  We need to u- — reunite — we need to unite
as one people, one nation, one America.  And that was the thing I was
most often criticized about — saying, “How can you unite the country?” 
We must unite the county.  
  
I said it in my kickoff speech in Philadelphia.  I said it when I spoke
at Gettysburg.  And I emphasized it in my Inaugural Address.  A lot of
people — press, to elected officials — were somewhat skeptical that
could be done.  It’s just beginning, but I am confident we can do this
and so much more.  And I believe, with every fiber of my being, that
there are simple core values and beliefs that should bring us together
as America — as Americans.  
  
One of them is standing together against hate, against racism — the ugly
poison that has long haunted and plagued our nation.  
  
Today, I can say that because of all of you — many of you sitting right
in front of me — you’ve taken that first step.  This important step.  
  
I’d like to thank the Congress and the members who are here today,
Democrats and Republicans, who came together to get the COVID-19 Hate
Crimes Act on my desk.  Well, on a desk I’m about to sign on. 
(Laughter.)  
  
But I want to thank the Majority Leader Schumer and I want to thank
Speaker Pelosi for your leadership.  
  
I also want to thank our — the Leader from the state of Kentucky for
letting it go forward.  It’s important.  It’s important.   
  
Most of all, Mazie — I shouldn’t have — Senator.  I called you “Mazie.” 
I apologize, Mazie.   
  
SENATOR HIRONO:  It’s okay.  (Laughter.)  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  I called Chuck, “Chuck,” anyway.  (Laughter.)  
  
Senator Hirono, Senator Tammy Duckworth who helped deliver this 94-1
vote.  When you get involved, Tammy, you don’t screw around.  You just —
(laughter) — 94-1.  
  
State Representative Grace Meng and Judy Chu, who helped deliver a six
hundred and — excuse me — 364-62 vote in the House of Representatives. 
That’s incredible.  
  
I also want to also thank, as I said, Republican members in Congress for
their leadership, including Senator Moran and Senator Collins.  
  
And I also want to thank the — as I said — and to all — to all of the
folks, all of the people here today who are involved in — those of you,
whether you’re in the Congress or not, supporting this effort, I say:
Thank you, thank you, thank you.  We got a lot more to do.  But we
simply haven’t seen this kind of bipartisanship for much too long in
Washington.  You’re showing our — that our democracy can work and
deliver for the American people.  
  
Just days after the mass shooting in Atlanta area, the  
Vice President Harris and I — we went down to Atlanta to meet with Asian
Americans and the community across Georgia.  It was a raw and emotional
visit we had.  
  
We heard about their pain, their fear, anger, and all that existed in
the community.  And the feelings were — about those feelings that they
felt invisible, not seen.  
  
We heard how too many Asian Americans have been waking up each morning
this past year genuinely — genuinely — fearing for their safety just
opening the door and walking down the street, and safety for their loved
ones.  The moms and dads who, when they let their kids out the door to
go to school, were worried.  
  
Attacked, blamed, scapegoated, harassed during this pandemic.  Living in
fear for their lives, as I said, just walking down street.   
  
Grandparents afraid to leave their homes even to get vaccinated, for
fear of being attacked.   
  
Small business owners targeted and gunned down.   
  
Students worried about two things: COVID-19 and being bullied.  
  
Documented incidents of hate against Asian Americans have seen a
shocking spike — as the Vice President has outlined at the front of her
comments.  Let alone — let alone the ones that have never been
reported.  
  
Gut-wrenching attacks on some of the most vulnerable people in our
nation — the elderly, low-wage workers, women — brutally attacked simply
by walking outside or waiting for a bus.  Asian American women suffer
twice as many incidents of harassment and violence as Asian American
men.   
  
And the conversation we had in Atlanta is one we’re hearing all across
the country, that all of this hate hides in plain sight — it hides in
plain sight — and too often, it is met with silence: silence by the
media, silence by our politics, and silence by our history.  
  
For centuries, Asian Americans, Native Hawaiians, Pacific Islanders —
diverse and vibrant communities — have helped build this nation only to
be often stepped over, forgotten, or ignored.  You know, lived here for
generations, but still considered, by some, the “other” — the “other.” 
It’s wrong.  It’s simply — to use the phrase — it’s simply
un-American.  
  
My message to all of those of you who are hurting is: We see you.  And
the Congress has said: We see you.  And we are committed to stop the
hatred and the bias.  
  
My first week in office, I signed a presidential memorandum directing
federal agencies — all of them — to combat the resurgence of
xenophobia.  Not just one, every agency.    
  
Attorney General Garland, Deputy Attorney General Lisa Monaco, Associate
Attorney General Gupta are all here today.  The Department of Justice is
strengthening its partnership with the community to prevent these
crimes, in addition to its other work to take on violent extremism and
domestic terrorism.  
  
And with the new law — this new law, the Department of Justice and our
entire administration is going to step up.  Right now, this is a
critical problem of hate crimes being underreported.  
  
It stems from two challenges.  First, there’s lack of resources and
training for state and local law enforcement to accurately identify and
report hate crimes to the FBI.  
  
Secondly, for more people in communities of color, there are language
and cultural barriers in how to communicate what’s happening to them. 
This law is going to make a difference.  
  
For example, the Department of Justice will issue clearer guidance for
state, city, and Tribal, and law enforcement agencies on how to
establish online reporting of hate crimes.  
  
It will work with the Department of Health and Human Services to raise
public awareness of COVID-19 hate crimes that occurred during the
pandemic.  There will also be a devoted official at the Department of
Justice whose sole job is to expedite the review of hate crimes
reports.  
  
And thanks to two families here today, the law will help state and local
governments ensure hate crime information is more accessible to the
public.   
  
The family of Heather Heyer — a civil rights activist whose life was
taken standing up to Nazis marching from the shadows of vengeance in
Charlottesville.  
  
And the family of Khalid Jabara — a proud son of a family who immigrated
from Lebanon in search of new beginnings — who was gunned down in front
door of their home here in America — in the United States of America by
a neighbor fueled by hate.  
  
Khalid and Heather were murdered on the same day one year apart.  And
instead of sharing the dreams they had for their children, both families
share profound grief.  And they’ve shown incredible courage to turn
their pain into purpose.  
  
I hope you’ll not be offended, but I’d ask both families to please
stand.  (Applause.)  
  
Folks, I want to thank you.  I want to thank you for being here, because
I know it’s hard.  No matter how celebratory it is, it’s — a law is
being changed — when you have to show up at something memorializing your
family, it’s like you got the news 10 seconds ago.  It’s the hardest
thing to do.  I know from experience, it takes enormous courage.   
  
But I hope — I hope that every day that’s passed, a memory of your son
and daughter brings a smile to your lips before it brings a tear to your
eye.  Because I promise you: A lot of people understand, have gone
through similar things.  It’s hard.   
  
So I really mean it when I say thank you.  Thank you for being here.  It
takes a lot of courage.  Thank you.  (Applause.)  
  
Because of you, the amendment named in honor of Khalid and Heather is
now law to make sure that hate crimes are more accurately counted and
reported, and, hopefully, leading to a continued focus on ending these
crimes.  
  
It will provide resources to create specialized hate crimes units that
will also help states create hotlines for hate crimes at state and local
levels that will be accessible for people with limited English
proficiency.  And it provides resources for training for state and local
law enforcement to identify, investigate, and report these heinous
crimes.   
  
But of all the good that the law can do, we have to change our hearts. 
We have to change the hearts of the American people.  Hate can — I mean
this from bottom my heart — hate can be given no safe harbor in
America.  I mean it: no safe harbor.  
  
It can’t be dismissed like, “Well, that’s just what happens.”  My
sister, Valerie, and I talk about it all the time.  You’ve got to speak
up.  Speak up and speak out.  It’s on all of us — all of us together —
to make it stop.   
  
My message is — to all of those who think this doesn’t matter to them or
this is not a problem: Look around.  Look in the mirror.  Look in the
eyes of your children.  Every one of us are lessened — every one of us
are lessened, and we’re all hurt by this hate.  It has a way of seeping,
sort of, through cracks in the communities and children who, in fact,
wouldn’t have crossed their mind.   
  
Words have consequences, as the senator knows — he preaches it, he
understands it.  Consequences.  But silence is complicity.  Silence is
complicity.  And we cannot be complicit.   
  
We have to speak out.  We have to act.  That’s what you’ve done.  And I
can’t thank you enough.   
  
I’m proud today.  I’m proud today of the United States.  I’m proud today
of our political system, the United States Congress.  I’m proud today
that Democrats and Republicans have stood up together to say
something.   
  
Let me close with this: Grief, as we all know, is universal, but so is
hope, so is love.  It sounds corny, but it really is.  It really is.
 And hope and love can be contagious.   
  
We’re the United States of America.  We’re a good and decent people.   
  
We’re unique among all nations in that we are uniquely a product of a
document — not an ethnicity, not a religion, not a geography; of a
document.  And think about this — I’m being literal — uniquely a product
of a document that says, “We hold these truths to be self-evident… that
all men and women are created equal, endowed by their creator with
certain inalienable rights, including life, liberty, and the pursuit of
happiness.”  
  
Every time we’re silent, every time we let hate flourish, you make a lie
of who we are as a nation.  I mean it literally.  We cannot let the very
foundation of this country continue to be eaten away like it has been in
other moments in our history and happening again.   
  
I looked at this law that you all passed as maybe the first break — the
first significant break on a moment in our history that has to be turned
around — not Democratic or — it has to be turned around.   
  
As a consequence, we should do what is required by the obligations of
this democracy, by our faith in God and our faith in each other to do
justice, to love mercy, to walk humbly.  
  
And as fellow human beings and fellow Americans, remember: We’re unique
in all of history as a nation.  This is the United States of America,
for God’s sake.  
  
May God bless you all, particularly those who pushed this through and
continue to push it.   
  
And now I’m going to sign this bill.  It is a great honor.  
  
(A cell phone rings.)  
  
I don’t know who’s calling, but tell them we’re busy.  (Laughter.)  I
was going to say, “Unless it’s my sister,” but she’s here. 
(Laughter.)  
  
So I’d like to invite to the stage Senator Hirono, Senator Duckworth,
Congresswoman Grace Meng, Congresswoman Judy Chu, Congressman Don Beyer,
Senator Richard Blumenthal, and Senator Moran, but I don’t think he
could be here today.  Actually, he should have you — I should put the
table down the middle of all of you and sign it down there.   
  
But thank you, thank you, thank you.  All right.  
  
(The act is signed.)  
  
Thank you.  Congratulations to all.  (Applause  
  
2:51 P.M. EDT 
