---
category: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-05-28'
modified_time: 2021-05-28 15:12:30-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/05/28/remarks-by-president-biden-celebrating-the-significant-progress-virginia-has-made-in-the-fight-against-covid-19/
published_time: 2021-05-28 15:12:29-04:00
title: "Remarks by President Biden Celebrating the Significant Progress Virginia Has\
  \ Made in the Fight Against COVID- \u2060 19"
---
 
Sportrock Climbing Center  
Alexandria, Virginia

12:02 P.M. EDT

THE PRESIDENT:  I don’t know about you all, but following a governor,
introducing the President in front of about half the legislature and the
national press when I was junior in high school — no, it wouldn’t be
close.  (Laughter.)  I just want you to remember me when you’re
President.  When I go by, don’t say, “Joe, who?”  Okay?  Promise me? 
(Laughter.) 

Before I begin, I’d like to say a quick word about an old friend of mine
— a quick word about Senator John Warner.  I had the privilege of
serving with John for three decades in the United States Senate.  And I
can say, without hesitation, he was a man of conscience and a man of
honor.  And in his life full of honors, the most enduring was his
service to the people of Virginia.  And we’re going to miss him dearly. 

And, you know, John took chances.  I was stunned — pleased and stunned
when, in the middle of my primary, John endorsed me for President of the
United States.  It was how things sort of used to be back in the old
days in the United States when I first got there.  People — that
wouldn’t — didn’t happen that often, but people would cross the aisle to
work with one another.  

John was a man of great integrity, and — and he’s missed — going to be
missed.  And Virginia was just fortunate to have him as long as they
did. 

Now, Jacob, I want to thank you for sharing your story.  And I want to —
you pointed out that my wife works for the governor.  (Laughter.)  No
wonder she doesn’t pay attention to me when I’m in — around the
governor. 

But all kidding aside, I’m very proud of the fact that Jill has —
teaching is not what Jill does; teaching is who she is.  And she’s done
it her — her whole adult life, and she’s still doing it. 

I know some people said, “When you’re First Lady, are you going to
continue to teach?”  She said, “Yes,” but I don’t think she bargained
for having to teach online initially.  (Laughter.)  You know, I —
students — I watched her.  She spent more time — four hours a day for
about a month — learning how to teach online.  So don’t feel bad about
you all having to do it too.  (Laughter.)  I watch the teachers have to
do it. 

Any rate — and I just want to say that, you know, we’re in a position
now — Governor Northam, I want to thank you for your welcome to the
Commonwealth.  And I want to thank you for all you’re doing to help win
the fight against COVID.  You’re one of the best governors in the
country in taking this on, and you did it from the beginning. 
(Applause.)

And, Mayor Wilson, thanks for the passport into the city.  (Laughter.) 
I promise I’ll leave in time, but thank you.  (Applause.)

And Congressman Connolly and Beyer, they are both members of Congress
but Congressman Connolly got to the Congress with a real impediment.  He
worked for me for years before that on my staff.  (Laughter.)  And
everything has gone downhill since you left, Gerald.  (Laughter.)  But
thank you. 

And I want to thank the Speaker as well and the Senate Majority Leader,
as well as thank all of you working so hard for the people here in
Northern Virginia.

Four months after I took office, we’re further along in this fight than
anyone thought possible. 

Let’s remember where we were 129 days ago: When I took office, we were
averaging 184,000 cases per day nationwide.  Here in Virginia, as the
governor pointed out, schools were closed.  Main Street had gone quiet
here and in cities all across America.  Virginia Tech, didn’t play in a
bowl game this winter — first time in 28 years.  And so many joys of
life, large and small, had been halted by a long, dark winter. 

And, today, we’ve gone from 184 \[thousand\] cases per day nationwide to
fewer than 22 cases — 22,000 cases per day.  Deaths have dropped by over
85 percent.  Tens of thousands of moms and dads, grandpops and
grandmoms, brothers, sisters, neighbors, friends are still with us today
who would otherwise have been lost. 

This has been true here in Virginia particularly.  From 43,000 cases the
week before I took office to fewer than 2,800 in the past week — a 93
percent decline. 

We’ve been able to do it for three reasons.  First, we planned and
executed a vaccination effort at a scale and speed never before seen
here or anywhere in the world. 

Here in Virginia, that meant $247 million in federal funding for
community vaccinations sites; over 360 federally funded National Guard
members supporting this state’s COVID-19 response; getting doses to
community healthcare centers, a thousand pharmacies all across Virginia;
and creating a mass vaccination site in Norfolk initially run by the
Federal Emergency Management Agency and the United States Navy in
partnership with Virginia. 

The second reason that we succeeded is: Governors, like Governor
Northam, have been instrumental partners.  Leaders in red states and
blue states working with businesses, faith leaders, community groups to
get it done at a local level. 

And thirdly and most crucially, the American people.  More than 165
million Americans so far have done their patriotic duty; 165 million
have gotten at least one shot.  Americans of every party, every race,
and creed have come together and rolled up their sleeves, literally, and
done their part. 

Now 51 percent of American adults have been fully vaccinated. 
Seventy-five percent of seniors are fully vac- — vaccinated, leaving
nobody behind: Black, white, Hispanic.  Across the world — across the
board, they’ve been getting their vaccinations.

In Virginia, 55 percent — as the Governor said — of all adults are
vaccinated.  I believe that’s the right number, Gov.  And look at what
that means: We aren’t just saving lives; we’re getting our lives back. 
Stores and restaurants up and down Main Street are hanging “open” signs
on their front doors.

And here, in a rock-climbing gym, we’re greeted by another — and we’re
greeting one another with smiles, with our masks off.  And I’m about to
do this 60-foot wall but you — (laughter).

I’ll tell you what: I work out every morning, but I said, “I — I have
trouble holding those grips there.”  (Laughter.)  And the young man said
to me — he said, “The way to work your hands…” — he said, “get a
kettlebell, a light one, and just put it under your fingers and work it
that way.”  Tonight, I’m trying.  (Laughter.) 

But, folks, look, in Norfolk and Fredericksburg, fans are — are heading
back to the Minor League ballparks, pools and parks are opening up
across the state, families are heading down to spend Memorial Day
weekend in Virginia Beach. 

And all over the country, we’ve gone from pain and stagnation of a long,
dark winter to an economy on the move, growing faster than it has in
nearly 40 years.  From anemic job creation in the months before I took
office, to the fastest job creation in the first three months of any
administration in American history and rising wages.  Rising wages. 
(Applause.)

As more Americans get vaccinated, the days grow brighter and brighter. 
But let me be clear: We’re not done yet.  We have to reach those who are
not vaccinated and make it as easy as possible for them to get
protected.

I set an ambitious goal of getting 70 percent of adult Americans at
least one shot by July the 4th.  Today, just over a month to go, we’re
at 62 percent.  Ten states have already reached the 70 percent
milestone.  Virginia is at 66; it’s moving closer every day.

And continuing on all — counting on — on just all the help and
continuing this process is really — I think you’re going to get the job
done here in Virginia pretty quickly, Gov.

To hit 70 percent and keep sprinting through the finish line is what
we’re all about.  If we succeed, we can celebrate our independence from
the virus together on the Fourth of July as we celebrate our
independence as a nation.  And the future is only going to get brighter
because there will be no doubt what America can achieve when we do it
together.

I know when I ran for office I said I wanted to do three things, one of
which was to unite the country.  It’s difficult, but this is the first
real evidence that we’re able to do it.  The American people are more
ready to come together, I believe, than the Congress and the elected
officials are, but we’re getting there.

If you aren’t vaccinated yet, it’s never been easier.  If convenience is
the issue, there are 80,000 locations.  Visit Vaccines.gov or text your
ZIP Code to 438829 and you’ll find the sites nearest you; it will pop up
immediately.  And in almost all cases, you don’t need an appointment.

If transportation is an issue — I want to thank Lyft and Uber.  They’ve
come forward and they’ve offered free rides to and from vaccination
sites through the July 4th.  So anybody who says they can’t get there,
call Lyft or Uber.  They’re doing a patriotic thing.  They’ll come and
pick you up, take you to the vaccination center, get you, wait for you,
and take you back to your home or wherever you emerged from.

And, you know, if cost is an issue, don’t let — don’t be concerned; the
vaccine is 100 percent free.  And if time is an issue, there are 10,000
\[tens of thousands\] sites offering vaccinations without an appointment
— 1,000 pharmacies in Virginia alone.  And the vast majority offer no
appointment — with no appointment required.

We’ve made extraordinary progress.  Every American should be proud of
what we’ve accomplished, and we did it together.  But we still have five
weeks left to hit our goal.  You know, we — and I know we can do it. 
Just look at what we’ve done so far. 

There’s not a single thing — and I’ve been saying this a long time — and
I think a lot of the press, they’re smart as the devil, think I’m being
naïve — there’s nothing we cannot accomplish if we do it together.  I
really believe that.  Nothing.  Nothing.  Nothing we’ve ever set our
mind to as Americans that we’ve failed at when we’ve done it together. 
And, Virginia, you know you’re doing your part.

So, you know, I remember I always would hear the — in the last
administration, I’d hear when they’d talk about vaccines and that,
“We’re going to — and we’re going to make great — great progress.”  And
they’d say, “There’s light at the end of the tunnel.”  I was reminded of
my generation in the ’60s.  There was a very raunchy comedian who’d say,
“Yeah, there’s light…” — when he’s talking about the Vietnam War.  He
said, “Yeah, there’s light at the end of the tunnel.  It’s a freight
train.” 

Well, this time there’s sunlight at the end of the tunnel.  There’s real
light.  There’s real light. 

And, Gov — I really mean this; I’m not being political — you’ve done one
hell of a job, Doc.  You’ve done a hell of a job and it matters.  It
matters. 

So I want to thank you all.  God bless you.  God protect our troops. 

12:15 P.M. EDT
