---
category: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-05-03'
modified_time: 2021-05-03 18:01:20-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/05/03/remarks-by-president-biden-on-the-american-families-plan/
published_time: 2021-05-03 18:01:19-04:00
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden on the American Families\_Plan"
---
 
Tidewater Community College  
Portsmouth, Virginia

1:09 P.M. EDT  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  My name is Joe Biden.  I’m Jill’s husband.  (Laughter.) 
And just like — just like the lovely lady in blue over here is a
professor at a community college, my wife also works for your husband. 
(Laughter.)  I — and thank you for the warm welcome today at the
airport.  Appreciate it very, very much.   
  
And Tim Kaine — one of the great senators and great, great friend.  
  
A guy I’ve relied on most of my career — when I was in the Senate, we
worked together; and as Vice President; and now — is Bobby Scott. 
Bobby, thank you for everything you do.  (Applause.)  
  
And Congresswoman Luria — we got to meet when you were in uniform, I
think, if I’m not mistaken.  And you’re doing a great job, and thank you
for being here.  
  
And to all the faculty and the management and the folks here at the
community college.  
  
You know, one of the things that — that I really found interesting,
Jaiden, is that — the major you took — cybersecurity. We spent a lot of
time, as my colleagues in the Congress and the Senate can tell you,
worrying and dealing on — with cybersecurity.  And it’s really important
that — now that we get this under control.  And we have the best trained
people in the world, and you’re going to be among them.  
  
I’m here today at Tidewater Community College to talk about the
America’s Family Plan and — that I announced last week — a
once-in-a-generation investment in our families, in our children that
addresses what people care most about and most need — the investment we
need to win the competition — the competition with other nations for the
future.  Because we’re in a race.  We’re in a race.  
  
It all starts with access to a good education, as you all know.  When
America made 12 years of public education universal in America in the
early 1900s, it made us the best-educated nation in the world, and you
saw the benefits that came from that.   
  
But the rest of the world has caught up to us.  The rest of the world
has caught up to us.  They are not waiting.  And 12 years is no longer
enough to compete with the world in the 21st century and lead the 21st
century.  
  
That’s why my American Families Plan guarantees four additional years of
public education for every person in America, starting as early as we
can.  
  
We were at an elem- — elementary school earlier today.  And what we’re
talking about here is — it means universal, high-quality preschool for
every three- and four-year-olds.  Not daycare — preschool. 
(Applause.)  
  
And the research has shown, here at the great universities in this state
and others, that children of that age who go to school — they are far
more likely to graduate from high school and continue their education
beyond then, rather than start off behind the eight ball if they come
from families that are not — don’t have educations — college
educations.  
  
You know, a lot of kids start kindergarten hearing a million fewer words
having spoken than other families, and it’s an unfair disadvantage.  But
every child is capable.  Every child is capable of learning.  
  
So we just visited, by the way, a fifth-grade classroom in Yorktown
earlier today, where the students are back together with their
classmates and teachers in school.  And we saw what’s — what being in
school means for those kids.   
  
Safely reopening the majority of the K-through-8 schools was one of my
top priorities in my first 100 days because there’s so much that happens
when they don’t have the certitude and the companionship and the
familiarity of being with their friends.  There’s an awful lot of need
in this pandemic for mental health facilities and — and counseling.  
  
And we met that goal by working with the governor here to get educators
and school staff vac- — vaccinated and to get them the resources they
needed to open up safely.  
  
And I’ve often said that children are the kite strings that keep our
national ambitions aloft.  We say “all those kids,” but they’re all our
children.  They’re all our children.  And they are the kite strings that
literally lift our national ambitions aloft.  So we’ve got to invest in
them — invest in our children to invest in the future.   
  
And we can’t stop there.  We’re going to add two years of community
college on top of that.  You just heard Jill talk about how community
colleges and how it can change lives.  Well, students here at the
community colleges across the country know why.  
  
For some, it’s two years of community college to earn enough credits to
transfer to a four-year university — which is available almost in every
single state — to become a teacher, an entrepreneur, or anything else. 
For some, it’s getting extra training through a certificate program to
get a good-paying job and a business in town.  
  
We just met with the students at the HVAC workshop — ambitious, talented
students, who are up to taking the next step in their lives.  And with
the skills they’re learning here — and some of those students will go on
to be plumbers and members of the Pipefitters Local 110, electricians —
look, it means higher union wages with guaranteed healthcare and
pensions.   
  
And, you know, it’s kind of amazing — one of the things — I don’t know
if you know — the First Lady of this state understands; she does, I’m
positive — that an awful lot of folks who even get an opportunity to go
to community college still can’t get there because of food,
transportation, and those other costs.  And so we’re going to increase
Pell Grants so they’ll qualify — (applause) — every — no, it would make
a gigantic difference.  It’ll make a gigantic difference.   
  
By the way, I have to admit: If I didn’t have these positions, I’d be
sleeping in the Lincoln bedroom — (laughter) — rather than the Vice —
the President’s bedroom.  But it really — you know, it really is how to
start to transform a life and family and community and our economy: by
investing — investing in the people.   
  
Every child has a capacity to learn.  And I’ve — if I’ve heard it once,
I’ve heard from Jill a thousand times: “Joe, any country that
out-educates us will outcompete us.”  And that’s a fact.  And she’ll be
deeply involved in leading this effort as well.  
  
The second thing: The American Families Plan is going to provide access
to quality, affordable childcare, keeping parents — helping parents go
back to work, providing a lifeline and benefits for children as they do
better in school throughout their lives.  
  
You know, it guarantees low- and middle-income families pay no more than
7 percent of their income for high-quality care for children up to the
age of five.  And that makes a gigantic difference.  There’s millions of
women out of work today not because they’re not qualified for the jobs
they have, but — they can’t take care of their children and do their
job.  And the cost of childcare is extraordinary.  
  
I was a single father when I first got elected to the Senate.  I had two
young boys raised after their mom and sister were killed, and I’ve — had
I not had the family I had, I’d never been able to do it.  And I’m not
joking about that.  And I was a senator; I was making a decent
salary.   
  
The most hard-pressed working families won’t have to spend a dime if, in
fact, my plan works.  If you’re low-income folks, you’ll be able to get
childcare for free.   
  
Third, the American Families Plan is going to finally provide up to 12
weeks of paid and medical leave — paid family and medical leave.  We’re
one of the few industrialized countries in the entire world that doesn’t
have this feature.  No one should have to choose between a job and a
paycheck or taking care of themselves, their parent, their spouse, or a
child that’s ill.  They should have that opportunity.  
  
And the fourth piece of the plan: The American Families Plan puts money
directly into the pockets of millions of Americans.  In March, we
extended the tax credit for low- and middle-income families with
children.   
  
Now, if I could hold a second here, what — you know, if you have — make
enough money and you’re paying taxes, you end up in a situation where
you get to deduct $2,000 per child as a tax benefit.  You don’t get it
back, but you get to deduct it.  
  
Well, if you’re a minimum-wage worker, you’re not paying much tax.  And
if you’re making less than that, which many people are, you’re not
paying any federal tax.  So, you’d get no benefit.   
  
So, we put in place — and a number of my Republican colleagues shared
the view too — although none on the voting floor — but they — but I
think they share it as well — and that is: Up to $3,000 per child six
years and older; and $3,600 for a child that is <s>over six year-</s> —
under six years of age.  That means two parents and two young kids with
— they get a check back from the government for $7,200 in their pockets,
which they’re doing now, which can help them take care of your family. 
And it will benefit more than 65 million children.  And all the data
shows it will cut child poverty in half this year — cut it in half.  
  
My plan extends the tax credit at least through the year 2025.  Because
what’s going to happen in 2025, as the press knows, is the tax cuts of
the last President expire.  And we’re going go back — that put us $2
trillion in debt.  And then we’re going to compete as to what tax
credits there are.  I think it’s about time we start giving tax breaks
and tax credits to working-class families and middle-class families
instead of just the very wealthy.    
  
And here’s what the American Families Plan doesn’t do: It doesn’t add a
single penny to our deficit.  It’s paid for by making sure corporate
America and the wealthiest 1 percent just pay their fair share.   
  
I come from the corporate capital of the world.  More corporations are
incorporated in the state of Delaware than all the rest of the nation
combined.  And I’m not anti-corporate, but it’s about time they start
paying their fair share.   
  
It’s about making a choice.  You know, we have out there — this year,
you had 50 corporations — make, you know, $40 billion — that didn’t pay
a single penny in taxes.  Not a single penny.  I don’t want to punish
anybody, but everybody should chip in.  Everybody should pay something
along the road here.   
  
The choice is about who the economy serves.  And so, I plan on giving
tax breaks to the working-class folks and making everybody pay their
fair share.   
  
Here’s an example of that choice: If you ask the top 1 percent to pay
the same tax rate they paid in 2001, when George Bush was President,
that would generate $13 billion a year.  Now, that’s enough for us to
take around $11 \[billion\] of that $13 billion and provide for two
years of community college free for every student in America.   
  
So, what’s fair?  Go from 36 to 39.6 percent, like it used to be, and be
able to take care of ever- — what’s better?  Just — just think about it
in terms of what’s better for America — not Democrat, Republican,
independ- — what’s going to grow America more?  What’s going to grow
America more?  What’s going to make us more competitive, stronger? 
What’s going to make us better educated?   
  
So, for folks at home, I’d like to ask a question: Do we want to give
the wealthiest people in America another tax cut?  Or do you want to
give every high school graduate the ability to earn a community college
degree on their way to good-paying jobs or on their way to four years of
school in industries of the future — healthcare, IT, cybersecurity, you
name it?   
  
Look, another example: For too long, we’ve had a two-tiered tax system. 
Working families pay taxes they owe on the wages they earn, while some
of the wealthiest Americans avoid paying anything close to that fair
share.   
  
My plan revitalizes and — the capacity of the IRS to crack down on —
there’s a number of studies, from the former Secretary of Treasury on,
that millionaires and billionaires are able to avoid taxes and cheat in
avoiding those taxes because we have so few agents in the IRS.   
  
It’s — the consensus is if you increase the disclosure requirements for
banks and financial institutions on accounts for the wealthiest
Americans to reduce tax cheating, you will have two steps — two steps
would recover $70 billion per year that currently goes unreported and
unpaid.   
  
Now — and we’ve been hearing about this for the last 10 years.  Instead
of cutting a number of agents, we should be increasing the number of
agents — not hounding anyone, just being able to get access to
information.  And shut down all the tax havens from the islands to —
anyway, I won’t go into it.  I can get a little carried away with
this.  
  
But, look — and we can take this money — this money and pay for
universal pre-K for every three- and four-year-old in America.  So what
is better?  Making people just pay their fair share.  Paid family
leave.  Childcare costs of working families — maximum of 7 percent of
their income.   
  
Again, it’s a choice.  It’s more important to shield millionaires from
paying their fair share?  Or is it more important that every child gets
a real opportunity to succeed from an early age and ease the burden on
working families?   
  
Third, we have a loophole in our tax system called “stepped-up basis.” 
It’s also known as the trust fund loophole.  For example, if I had a
million dollars in stock that I bought and it made a million dollars and
I was going to cash it in, I’d have to pay capital gain on that million
dollars.   
  
But if, God forbid, on the way — go back to where I was — on the way to
where we’re talking about — on the way to cash in my stock, I got hit by
a car and got killed, I can leave it to my daughter, and she pays no tax
— a tax that was owed two seconds earlier.  
  
It’s not an inheritance tax.  It was a tax was owed two — two seconds
earlier.  But that’s what “stepped-up basis” means.  It’s a person
passes away and leaves the stock in their — to their son or daughter;
son or daughter don’t have to pay anything on that multimillion-dollar
gain when they sell that stock.  And that’s worth a lot of money.  
  
Look, they may be decent and honorable people — and they are — but the
last thing Americans with around — with the amount of wealth — needs is
another tax break.   
  
We need to make a choice to eliminate the loophole — only the gains
above for people — only the gains above people making $2 million a year
— or, excuse me, a couple — a rate of \[raise of\] capital gains rate
for people making more than a million dollars a year, which, by the way,
would affect three tenths of 1 percent of all taxpayers — three tenths
of 1 percent of the top 1 percent.    
  
And close another loophole, like the real estate investor loophole,
where the wealthy is simply paying the same rate on their wages and
investment income.  That raises $40 billion a year for the next 10
years.  
  
The reason I’m bothering to do this is I keep hearing out in the press,
“Biden is going to raise your taxes.”  Anybody making less than $400,000
a year will not pay a single penny in taxes.  And we will not increase
the deficit either, unlike the last gigantic tax cut, which increased
the deficit by $2 trillion.   
  
It’s about balancing the system and growing the economy.  It means
wealthy investors no longer pay lower marginal tax rates than their
secretary pays — the secretary in their office.  
  
Do you want to know what that would do?  That would take that money and
extend the lifechanging middle-class tax cut and put it in place for
American Rescue Plan and expand Child Care Tax Credit t- — I mentioned
earlier, that’s $1,700 \[$7,200\] in the pockets of a family with two
kids for — now through — through 2025.  
  
Look, just closing these loopholes by taxing investment income at the
same rate we — for — as wages for the wealthiest Americans, we’d have
enough to extend this again through 2025.  
  
So I ask again: Is it more important to keep these tax loopholes for
millionaires — who are good people; they’re not bad folks, but — or
would we rather put $7,200 in the pockets of working moms and dads every
year if they have two children?  
  
Folks, trickle-down economies — economics has never worked.  For too
long, we’ve had an economy that gives every break in the world to the
folks who need it the least.  It’s time to grow the economy from the
bottom up and the middle out.  
  
We can choose to give hardworking families a break — a tax break, in
effect.  We can choose to invest in our students.  We can choose an
economy that rewards work, not just wealth, and that chooses —  
  
The choice I’m making and the vast majority of the American people
support is: Let’s give people a shot.  Given even half a chance, the
American people have never, ever, ever let their country down.  Imagine
if we give them a full chance.  Imagine what it would mean for them and
their families and for our country.  
  
We’re the United States of America.  There’s nothing — nothing — we’ve
been unable to do when we do it together.  So, let’s get together. 
Let’s get this done.  Because the truth of the matter is that we can do
this and grow the economy.  I won’t — I won’t go into all the other
statistics, but the plan is estimated to grow the economy another
trillion dollars.  This will grow the economy.  Everybody would be
better off.   
  
So, I want to thank you all for doing your part here to make sure that
not only you’re educating and giving people a real shot — a real shot at
a real life, consistent with their talents and their capacities; not
limited because they don’t have the money.  And we’re going to give it
to a lot more people.   
  
I promise you — I promise you: America will be much stronger for it. 
Because, like I said, if we’re setting out a universal education, it
wouldn’t just be 12 years anymore.  It would be — it would be those 14
years — 16 years I’m talking about: 2 to start, and 2 at the other
end.   
  
And as your state has done under your governor and your senator and your
congresspersons, your state — if you got — if you get four years out of
here — two — two years out here, that’s two years towards a co- — a
state university.  You cut tuition in half for a four-year degree as
well.   
  
So there’s an awful lot of possibilities, an awful lot of hope.  And the
good news is I think there’s overwhelming, bipartisan support for this. 
You look at the polling data: Republican voters overwhelmingly support
it.  Now I just got to get some of my Republican colleagues to support
it.   
  
So, thank you all, and God bless you.  And thank you for the work you’re
doing.  And may God protect our troops.  Thank you so much. 
(Applause.)  
  
Q    Mr. President, when do you think the U.S. will reach herd
immunity?  When do you believe the U.S. will reach herd immunity?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  I think, by the end of the summer, we’ll be in a very
different position than we are now.  As you know, I’ve worked very hard
to make sure we have over 600 million doses of vaccine.   
  
We’re going to continue to make sure that’s available.  We’re going to
increase that number across the board as well so we can also be helping
other nations once we take care of all Americans.   
  
And what’s happening now is all the talk about how people were not going
to get shots, they were not going to be involved — look at what that was
— we were told that was most likely to be among people over 65 years of
age.  But now people over 65 years of age, over 80 percent, have now
been vaccinated, and 66 percent fully vaccinated.  And there’s virtually
no difference between white, Black, Hispanic, Asian American.   
  
And so — because what we’ve done, under some criticism, is we have
expanded access to vaccinations to familiar places — 40,000 drugstores
now.  Also, all of the Community Health Centers that are available all
across the nation.  Mobile units going out.  And it’s getting better and
better and better.  And so that’s why we’re leading the world.   
  
When I got elected, I said, in the first 100 days, we’d get 100 million
people vaccinated.  I was wrong; we got 230 million vaccinated. 
(Applause.)  
  
I think — I think you’ll see — and there’s a debate, you know — and I’ll
end with this — there’s a debate on what constitutes herd immunity.  “Is
it 70 percent of the population?  Is it 68 percent?  Is it 81
percent?”  
  
The point is that, by the end of the summer — right now, every single
person, 16 years or older, doesn’t have to wait in line — can show up
and get a vaccination now.  My plea to everyone: Get vaccinated now
please.  
  
Thank you.  (Applause.)  
  
1:31 P.M. EDT
