---
date: '2025-09-26'
modified_time: 2025-09-26 13:56:08-04:00
published_time: 2025-09-26 13:56:07-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefings-statements/2025/09/the-office-of-federal-procurement-policy-and-the-small-business-administration-reinforce-small-business-participation-in-federal-contracting/
tags: briefings-statements
title: The Office of Federal Procurement Policy and the Small Business Administration
  Reinforce Small Business Participation in Federal Contracting.
---
 
**Washington, D.C.** – Today, the Office of Management and Budget’s
Office of Federal Procurement Policy and other members of the FAR
Council, in close consultation with the Small Business Administration
(SBA), released streamlined regulatory coverage on small business
contracting.  Small businesses are the cornerstone of the U.S. economy. 

The nation’s 34 million small businesses now account for well over 40
percent of U.S. economic activity and are creating two out of every
three net new private sector jobs.  Promoting strong small business
participation in the federal market is a core objective of the
Revolutionary Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) Overhaul (RFO), which
is returning the FAR to its statutory roots, rewritten in plain
language, while removing non-statutory rules when they are not essential
to sound procurement. 

The release simplifies coverage and reduces the burden on small
businesses seeking contracts while preserving important policies
requiring agencies to set aside new contracts when there are two or more
competitive small businesses capable of performing the work.  The FAR
coverage also promotes greater competition in the 8(a)-business
development program so that small and disadvantaged businesses are
better prepared to win work when they graduate from the program.

*“The streamlining and common-sense stewardship that has been unleashed
by the RFO is a once-in-a-generation win-win for agencies and the many
tens of thousands of small business contractors that provide capability
to our country.  Small businesses will have more manageable access to
the federal market, and agencies will be able to leverage their talents
to meet mission demands,”* **said Dr. Kevin Rhodes, senior advisor to
OMB Director Russell Vought.**

The preservation of set-asides and more competitive 8(a) awards will
work in conjunction with other regulatory streamlining actions taken by
the FAR Council through the RFO that are expected to strengthen small
business participation. 

SBA will continue working closely with the FAR Council to ensure
consistency between updates to its own government-wide rules on small
business contracting programs and the changes released today.

**BACKGROUND**

The Revolutionary FAR Overhaul is the most significant reform to the FAR
in its 41-year history. As the FAR Council completes the first phase of
the overhaul, the FAR Council has provided relief from more than 1,600
burdensome requirements for agencies and contractors. These reforms open
the door for increased participation by innovative small businesses,
manufacturers, new entrants, and others who have not traditionally
worked with federal agencies.

The streamlined FAR and non-regulatory resources will collectively form
the *Strategic Acquisition Guidance (SAG)* that provides a common-sense
authoritative foundation for nimble response and delivery of mission
capability.

During the second phase of the RFO, the FAR Council will turn to formal
rulemaking and invite public comment through the Federal Register.  The
proposed rules will be informed by the deviations issued in phase one,
public input on the text received on the RFO website, agency feedback,
and other appropriate inputs.

Regulatory streaming actions taken by the FAR Council that are expected
to strengthen small business participation in addition to those
announced today include:

-   One-third fewer boilerplate government-unique requirements that are
    not required by statute or executive order for commercial work,
    which will lower burden for the majority of contracts with small
    business contractors;

<!-- -->

-   Increased use of simplified acquisition procedures that shorten the
    time from solicitation to award and reduce carrying and other
    transaction costs;

<!-- -->

-   Easier access to government-wide and agency enterprise-wide task and
    delivery order contracts through encouraged use of “on-ramps” to
    existing contracts and set-asides for orders under these contracts,
    both of which are recognized under the RFO as essential tools to
    sound procurement;

<!-- -->

-   Greater emphasis on post-award debriefings that give small
    businesses the insight they need to be more competitive in future
    competitions;

<!-- -->

-   Reforms that will make it easier over time for contractors to sign
    up and maintain their registration to do business with the Federal
    Government in the System for Award Management; and

<!-- -->

-   Spotlighting non-regulatory best practices in the new FAR Companion
    and Practitioner Albums to accelerate adoption of practices that
    reduce barriers to small business participation, such as use of
    technical demonstrations that allow small businesses to showcase
    their capabilities as they would to their private sector customers
    instead of engaging in costly proposal writing contests.

In addition, direction issued by OMB and adopted by the FAR Council as
part of the RFO for agencies to consider government-wide contracts when
buying commercial products and services is expected to increase small
business awards under contracts that the General Services Administration
(GSA) created to build a more resilient federal market.  This includes
the OASIS+ family of contracts, the premiere government-wide contracts
to acquire services and strengthen the contractor base across HubZone
small businesses, service-disabled veteran-owned small businesses,
women-owned small businesses, and small disadvantaged businesses. 
OASIS+ offers a full range of professional, technical and support
services vital to missions across Government.

**For more information about the RFO,
visit:** <https://www.acquisition.gov/far-overhaul> 
