---
date: '2025-09-02'
published_time: 2025-09-02 12:26:46-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefings-statements/2025/09/presidential-message-on-national-prostate-cancer-awareness-month/
tags: briefings-statements
title: Presidential Message on National Prostate Cancer Awareness Month
---
 
During National Prostate Cancer Awareness Month, we send our unwavering
support to the millions of American men and families who have faced
prostate cancer with courage and resolve.  We recognize those undergoing
treatment, acknowledge the resilience of survivors, pay tribute to those
we have lost, and renew our commitment to defeating prostate cancer once
and for all.

Prostate cancer remains the most commonly diagnosed cancer among
American men.  Every year, more than 300,000 men are diagnosed with
prostate cancer, and more than 35,000 die from the disease. 
Fortunately, when caught early, survival rates are now almost 100
percent—a testament to the tremendous power of American medicine,
American science, and the unmatched might of American ingenuity.

Under my leadership, we have taken historic action to lower the cost of
prescription drugs, expand access to telehealth, and give terminally ill
patients the right to try experimental drugs that could save their
lives—empowering men who are battling prostate cancer to receive
affordable and accessible lifesaving medications.

This September, we renew our pledge to conquer prostate cancer.  We
reaffirm our support for the patients who bravely undergo treatment, the
researchers who pursue breakthroughs, the medical professionals who
provide lifesaving care, and the caregivers who support their loved
ones.  Above all, we vow to foster a culture, a government, and a Nation
that protects the health, wellness, and future of every citizen.
