---
date: '2025-09-22'
published_time: 2025-09-22 15:24:47-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefings-statements/2025/09/national-historically-black-colleges-and-universities-week-2025/
tags: briefings-statements
title: National Historically Black Colleges and Universities Week, 2025
---
 
This National Historically Black Colleges and Universities Week, we
celebrate the enduring legacy and transformative influence of America’s
historically black colleges and universities (HBCUs).  Since the first
HBCU opened in 1837, these institutions have nurtured generations of
leaders, innovators, and public servants, providing a foundation of
academic achievement and cultural pride for communities all across our
Nation.

During my first term in office, I signed into law the FUTURE Act,
securing $255 million in permanent annual funding for HBCUs.  I
increased funding for Federal Pell Grants and authorized more than $100
million for scholarships and research at HBCU land-grant institutions. 
I also signed into law the HBCU PARTNERS Act to increase affordability
and help more students attend HBCUs.

Now, as the 47th President of the United States, I am building off of
these historic successes.  In April, I signed an Executive Order to
promote excellence and innovation at HBCUs by establishing a White House
Initiative on HBCUs and creating the President’s Board of Advisors on
HBCUs within the Department of Education.  These initiatives are
delivering a great education to HBCU students, bolstering partnerships
between the public and private sectors, and promoting workforce
preparation in fast-growing industries.

This week, we honor the history of HBCUs and the dedicated faculty and
families who have sustained them through generations.  Their legacy of
dignity, discipline, and achievement continues to strengthen the
American workforce and way of life.  We will never waver in our efforts
to advance opportunity for every American student and strengthen our
Nation by cultivating leaders of character, integrity, and merit.
