---
date: '2025-09-02'
modified_time: 2025-09-04 12:21:52-04:00
published_time: 2025-09-02 12:29:41-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefings-statements/2025/09/presidential-message-on-national-preparedness-month/
tags: briefings-statements
title: Presidential Message on National Preparedness Month
---
 
This National Preparedness Month, my Administration recommits to
ensuring that every American community has the resources and support
they need and deserve, so that when disaster strikes, our State and
Federal governments are prepared—and our citizens are safe and secure.

Tragically, over the last year, natural disasters have ravaged nearly
every region of our country. In the wake of Hurricanes Helene and Erin,
catastrophic flooding in Texas, and blazing fires in California,
countless families have borne power outages, severe structural damage,
unthinkable injuries, and death.  I send my thoughts and prayers to the
families of those who have lost loved ones, and to all those who have
been displaced and subjected to suffering.  To every unsung hero who has
helped with recovery efforts, we thank you from the bottom of our
hearts.

These tragedies remind us of the importance of disaster preparedness and
having a plan in place before crisis strikes.  My Administration
encourages every citizen to sign up for alerts on their mobile devices,
set aside savings for emergencies, prepare a disaster supply kit, and
speak with their children on how to best respond to emergencies.

Under the previous administration, in the face of tragedy, my
predecessor outrageously allocated Federal resources on the basis of
political ideology and diverted disaster response funds to illegal
immigrants and left-wing Government programs.  Meanwhile, when wildfires
erupted in California earlier this year, State leaders made extremely
poor decisions that endangered the lives of the citizens they took an
oath to serve.  In recent months and years, these so-called leaders have
prioritized the Green New Scam agenda and far-left “Diversity, Equity,
and Inclusion” ideology, and have fired first responders for refusing to
take the COVID-19 vaccine.  As a result, California was left totally
unprepared.  Public responders were unable to tame the blaze because of
dry hydrants, empty reservoirs, and inadequate water infrastructure.  At
least 30 people died, while survivors have been left with hundreds of
billions of dollars in damages.

Following 4 years of weak disaster response, the American people now
have a Government that actively responds to their needs in times of
crisis and disaster.  In the first week of my term, I established a Task
Force to assess the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s ability to
address disasters.  To avert the effects of harmful State and local
policies, I signed an Executive Order to expedite response and recovery
efforts to the people of California, including the largest wildfire
hazardous waste cleanup in the history of the Environmental Protection
Agency.

This month, we recommit to ensuring every American community is fully
prepared when disaster strikes.  We pledge to work alongside State and
local leaders to prepare for the needs of our citizens—and we express
our unending thanks to every heroic first responder who embodies the
strength and determination of the American spirit.
