---
date: '2025-09-23'
modified_time: 2025-09-23 09:44:10-04:00
published_time: 2025-09-23 09:43:43-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefings-statements/2025/09/presidential-message-on-national-gang-violence-prevention-week/
tags: briefings-statements
title: Presidential Message on National Gang Violence Prevention Week
---
 
This National Gang Violence Prevention Week, we send our heartfelt
prayers and unwavering support to every family who has suffered from the
evils of gang violence.  We solemnly pay tribute to the precious lives
stolen from us by criminals and thugs who have no right to be in our
country.  Above all, we reaffirm our commitment to arresting and
removing all bloodthirsty gang members, cartels, and drug traffickers
from our streets and making America safe again.

Under the previous administration, gangs and cartels were unleashed into
our country through a wide-open southern border, bringing waves of
brutality, death, and destruction never seen before in our Nation’s
history.  Dangerous gangs like Tren de Aragua roamed our streets freely,
terrorizing countless communities and claiming the lives of far too many
innocent Americans.

This unthinkable betrayal of the American people ended on January 20,
2025.  Upon taking office, I immediately declared a National Emergency
at our southern border and designated the deadly MS-13 and Tren de
Aragua gangs as Foreign Terrorist Organizations to bring their reign of
lawlessness and evil to an end.  I have proudly launched the largest
mass deportation operation in American history—removing thousands of
violent gang members from our communities.  Earlier this year, I also
signed into law the One Big Beautiful Bill, which secures historic
funding for hundreds of miles of new border wall and for Border Patrol
and Immigrations and Customs Enforcement officers, empowering them to
track down, arrest, and deport dangerous illegal alien criminals and
dismantle drug and human trafficking networks.

This week, our Nation remembers the victims and supports the families
that have fallen victim to gang violence.  We extend our sincere
gratitude and support to the heroic men and women of American law
enforcement who are working tirelessly to rid our streets of these
vicious criminals.  Under my leadership, we are restoring law and order
to America’s cities, reestablishing our national sovereignty, and
ensuring that our children, families, and communities can live out their
American dream free from gang violence. 
