---
date: '2025-09-10'
modified_time: 2025-09-10 12:47:22-04:00
published_time: 2025-09-10 12:47:21-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefings-statements/2025/09/white-house-omb-board-proposes-elimination-of-dozens-of-unnecessary-and-redundant-accounting-requirements-on-federal-contractors/
tags: briefings-statements
title: White House OMB Board Proposes Elimination of Dozens of Unnecessary and Redundant
  Accounting Requirements on Federal Contractors
---
 
**Washington, D.C.** – Today, the Office of Management and Budget’s Cost
Accounting Standards (CAS) Board, chaired by the Office of Federal
Procurement, published two proposed rules to eliminate more than 60
requirements. The current rules force contractors who support the
Government’s most important missions – from national defense to energy
dominance, human space exploration, and making America healthy again —
to unnecessarily keep two sets of overlapping books. These rules have
remained largely unchanged for over *50 years.*

Today’s actions are part of the Administration’s ongoing efforts to
drastically reduce regulatory burdens and will streamline the complex
maze of rules that govern nearly $750 billion in annual contract
spending by government agencies. They will update measuring and
assigning costs for compensated personal leave, capitalization and
depreciation of capital assets, and acquisition costs of material. 
Instead, the Government will now rely on GAAP to protect the
government’s interests and ensure taxpayers receive the contractor’s
best value in these areas.

**“Holding contractors responsible for properly and transparently
accounting for their costs is good stewardship, but forcing contractors
to maintain overlapping books and records is wasteful and creates
barriers that discourage talented companies from working with the
Government to meet the needs of our taxpayers,”** said Dr. Kevin Rhodes,
senior advisor to OMB Director Russell Vought.

Deregulatory actions addressed in the Board’s rulemakings should result
in fewer unique records and processes that contractors must maintain,
fewer Government oversight activities required by CAS requirements, and
opportunities for reliance on financial audits being performed by
commercial firms for GAAP compliance.

The Board expects to finalize rulemaking on the proposed elimination of
standards by early next year and intends to significantly accelerate
work on additional conformance of CAS to GAAP. Related efforts by OFPP
to streamline the 2,000-page Federal Acquisition Regulation back to its
statutory roots and rules that are essential to sound procurement will
further alleviate the need for CAS, by emphasizing practices where CAS
does not apply, such as where the agency is relying on fixed-price
competitively awarded contracts for commercial solutions.  

**BACKGROUND**

The CAS Board, which is chaired by OMB’s Office of Federal Procurement
Policy (OFPP), is responsible for issuing standards to ensure
contractors properly account for costs on government contracts. CAS
applies when the government must rely on a contractor’s costs to
establish a fair and reasonable fixed-price or where payment is based on
costs incurred.  Generally Accepted Accounting Practices (GAAP), which
must be followed by government contractors doing business in the private
sector, have become more rigorous in response to shareholder demands for
corporate accountability.  These advances have led to a significant
overlap between GAAP and CAS.

Go [here](https://public-inspection.federalregister.gov/2025-17480.pdf)
to read the Board’s proposed and final rules and
[here](https://www.acquisition.gov/far-overhaul) for more information on
the Revolutionary FAR Overhaul.
