---
date: '2023-08-28'
modified_time: 2023-08-28 19:14:51-04:00
published_time: 2023-08-28 19:14:50-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2023/08/28/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-and-director-of-the-office-of-public-engagement-stephen-benjamin/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre and Director of the Office\
  \ of Public Engagement Stephen\_Benjamin"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

1:27 P.M. EDT

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Hello. Welcome back, everybody. Okay. A couple of
things. Good afternoon.

Q Good afternoon.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: This Saturday, our nation marked the six- — 60th
anniversary of the March on Washington, a seminal moment in our history
and in our work towards equal opportunity for all Americans.

Sadly, this day of remembrance ended with yet more American communities
wounded by an act of gun violence, including communities in Boston,
Chicago, and Joppa\[towne\]. At least one shooting this weekend was
reportedly fueled by hate and carried out with two firearms.

On Saturday in Jacksonville, Florida, a white gunman went on a shooting
rampage at a store near a historically Black university and killed three
Black individuals. Even as we continue to — to — we continue searching
for answers, we must say clearly and forcefully that white supremacy has
no place in America.

As the President said in his statement yesterday, we must refuse to live
in a country where Black families going to the store or Black students
going to school — to school live in fear of being gunned down because of
the color of their skin. Hate must have no safe harbor. Silence is
complicity, and we must not remain silent. And we must continue to do
all we can to keep guns out of dangerous hands.

The President and the First Lady are praying for the victims and their
families, and this entire administration grieves with the people of
Jacksonville.

Earlier today, the President spoke to Governor DeSantis and told him he
quickly approved the emergency declaration for Florida. The President
also expressed the administration’s full commitment and support to
Florida.

At the President’s direction, FEMA has deployed two incident management
teams to Tallahassee and has one in Atlanta ready to pivot as needed.
The President continues to be briefed on the current trajectory of
Tropical Storm Idalia, and the team here will continue to update him as
the system progresses.

Unfortunately, as you all know, Floridians are no strangers to these
types of storms. It’s important that people prepare today; get supplies
— so they get food, water; and charge your electronic devices. People
should visit Ready.gov for — for tips on how to prepare.

Lastly, if you are in the storm’s path, please listen to your local and
state officials for guidance on evacuations or any updates.

As we just announced moments ago, President Biden will travel to Hanoi,
Vietnam, on September 10th following his participation in the G20 Summit
in New Delhi. While in Hanoi, President Biden will meet with key leaders
to discuss ways to deepen the cooperation between the United States and
Vietnam.

The leaders will explore opportunities to promote the growth of
technology; focused and innovative — innovation-driven Vietn- —
Vietnamese economy; expand our people-to-people ties through education
exchanges and workforce deployment — development programs, I should say;
combat climate change; and increase peace, prosperity, and stability in
the region.

And on Monday, September 11th, the President, the Vice President, First
Lady, and Second Gentleman will mark — all will mark the 22nd
anniversary of the terror attacks on September 11th, 2001. The President
will travel from Hanoi to Alaska to participate in a memorial ceremony
with members of the military and their families.

The Vice President and the Second Gentleman will participate in a
commemoration — commemoration ceremony at the National — at the National
September 11th Memorial and Museum in New York City. And the First Lady
will lay a wreath at the National 9/11 Pentagon Memorial to honor the
lives lost on September 11th.

Today, the President and the First Lady visited students at Eliot-Hine
Middle School in Washington, D.C., to mark the start of the school year.
This visit kicks off a number of back-to-school activities for the First
Lady this week, as well as Secretary of Education Cardona will soon hit
the road for a back-to-school bus tour.

When President Biden took office less than half than — less than half of
the kindergarten-to-12 students were going to school in person. Thanks
to his swift actions and historic investment, every school in America is
open safely for in-person instruction. The administration remains
committed to supporting schools and the students they serve.

And today, we are joined by the senior advisor and pres- – — and
president — to the President and Director of the Office of Public
Engagement, Stephen Benjamin, who is here to discuss the President’s
March on Washington commemoration engagements today.

And the floor is yours, Mayor, if you’re ready. (Laughs.) This is also
his first time in the briefing room, so welcome.

Q Welcome.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah, come on up. Come on up.

DIRECTOR BENJAMIN: That means be nice to me — (laughter) — is what it
means.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Be nice to him. Yes.

DIRECTOR BENJAMIN: So, today, the President and Vice President Harris
will commemorate the 60th anniversary of the March on Washington. As you
may have seen, the Washington Post op-ed penned by the President to
commemorate the sacred day and outline how the Biden-Harris
administration is working to fulfill Dr. King’s dream of redeeming the
promissory note of our nation.

The President and — and Vice President will meet privately with
organizers of the march, community leaders, and members of the King
family shortly, in just about a half hour. This meeting will take place
exactly 60 days \[years\] after the initial Oval Office meeting between
President Kennedy and Dr. King on the morning of the original March on
Washington.

Later this evening, President Biden will host a reception as well and
provide remarks to commemorate the 60th anniversary of the founding of
the Lawyers Committee for Civil Rights Under the Law.

And I’m happy to take any questions you might have right now.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Go ahead, April.

Q Sixty years today, 1963 was a pivotal year in civil rights. Medgar
Evers was shot and killed in June of ’63. The March on Washington in
August of ’63. Two weeks later, four little girls were killed in a
Baptist church. That was 60 years ago.

Today, we are witnessing what’s happened in Jacksonville. We’ve got laws
on the books, policies, et cetera. What can this administration do to
quell the hate that is on the rise that the FBI has quantified?

DIRECTOR BENJAMIN: Sure. I would say this: The administration has, since
day one — since the President signed his first executive order on making
sure that everything we’ve done is focused on — on equity in this
administration — and all of his work since then — including, obviously,
another executive order signed on the anniversary of Bloody Sunday to
make sure that the — the sacred right to the franchise is protected.

It is — it is sacrosanct in everything this administration does.

Obviously, there’s a full investigation going on in Jacksonville right
now. We’re going to let law enforcement authorities do their job.

But everything in this administration is focused on making sure that we
try to appeal to the better angels, against, it seems, a rising tide of
not only racism — antisemitism, Islamophobia, violent attacks against
our — our LGBT brothers and sisters, and even significant crimes against
our AANHPI community. That’s why it’s so important that we remain
vigilant every single day from all aspects of the administration, a
whole-of-government approach, recognizing that that the work — there’s
work yet to be done.

It’s important to note that — that while we’re not where we want to be,
we’re certainly not where we used to be. The progress that has been made
not only in the Biden-Harris administration — which has had a number of
historic firsts, I might add — but over the last 60 years, this country
has come a long way.

And we have to — I believe people of goodwill have to lean into that
progress, but realize that we are on the frontline against a rising tide
of a lot of “isms.” And we’ve got to continue to push — push back
together.

That’s embedded in the President’s piece in the Washington Post. I
encourage everyone to lean into it.

Q And a follow-up on that, if I could.

DIRECTOR BENJAMIN: Yes, ma’am.

Q There’s a lot of racial rhetoric going on in this political
campaigning atmosphere. Is there going to be — or am I making a reach in
this question — will there be a reach across the aisle to say, “Enough
is enough, we’ve got to stop this”? Because a lot of this — people are
saying are stemming from a lot of this rhetoric.

DIRECTOR BENJAMIN: Sure. And I would give a brief response to that. The
President has endeavored — and I watch it in every engagement that I
have with him and every engagement he has with the public — to recognize
the fact that he’s the president of all of the United States of America.
He speaks to people on both sides of the line — urban, rural, and
suburban America. And he speaks, again, in a way that brings people
together. That will continue to be his position, as well as the Vice
President’s position.

But yes, it requires the President, the Vice President, but all of us,
again, to lean in and make sure we’re working to pull people together
and push back against that rhetoric that we do see, April.

Thank you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Go ahead, Franco.

Q Thanks, Mayor. Does the White House see any connection with the
changes that the Florida governor has made in teaching about African
American history to the kind of violence that we saw in Jacksonville?

DIRECTOR BENJAMIN: The President is — has been very clear — again, in
the piece he penned this morning and I think probably more so in action
— his actions last month in working to establish the — the monuments to
Emmett Till and Mamie Till — Mamie Till Mobley, of course, recognizing,
commemorating the sad event of his murder but also recognizing the
courage of his mother in making sure that she helped light the fuse that
set in action significant events of the Civil Rights Movement.

That action establishing these monuments in Mississippi and in Illinois
was meant to make sure people understand that we cannot rewrite American
history. We have to tell the good with the bad, and that is edifying to
the soul of this country.

And the President — since day one, you’ve heard him talk about his
personal reaction to Charlottesville. Redeeming the soul of America is
cent- — central to who Joe Biden is as a man and why he chose to run for
president as a — as a candidate.

So, I don’t think it’s a stretch to suggest that — that trying to
rewrite American history is not only wrong but it also encourages our
children and those among us not to lean in to the — to the beautiful and
also painful past of what our history looks like and encouraging people
to move forward together.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Go ahead, Zolan.

Q Thank you for the question. Looking at the op-ed today, a lot of the
achievements that are listed in here obviously resonate but have to do
with the economy: lowering unemployment, health insurance, investing in
small businesses.

I’m wondering if the administration still believes that those
achievements will resonate when you still have hate crimes happening
across America; you still have Supreme Court decisions that have
obviously led to setbacks on some of the more sweeping proposals by this
administration, such as student loan relief or even affirmative action.
When many people still feel that their civil liberties are being
infringed upon, are — is the administration confident that some of these
economic achievements will really resonate among Black Americans
throughout —

DIRECTOR BENJAMIN: Sure. Well, we certainly hope so. Not — and not only
in the context of electoral politics, but just simply because it’s the
right thing to do.

The President has been incredibly supportive of and hoping for the pass
of the John Lewis Act, encouraging we protect the — the sacred right to
vote, and certainly even the George Floyd Justice in Policing Act to
make sure, of course, we’ve led from the front as it relates to federal
authorities and chokeholds and the like. But we’d like much more support
from Congress in moving these things forward.

It is a difficult environment to move forward some legislation, but
every single thing that we can do by executive order the President has
been leaning on. There are a lot of challenges that people face. But we
certainly believe that part of Dr. King’s message, and all the other
amazing organizers of the March on Washington, focused on — on the
economy — on the economy and jobs and — and freedom.

So, these amazing investments that have been made in — in Black
businesses and minority-owned businesses — small businesses across this
country.

Making sure people have access to healthcare, more people insured now
than ever. Thirty-five dollar insulin. Making sure that people don’t
have to make decisions between poverty and getting the medicine that
they need.

Clean water. Removing lead pipes from communities all across this
country.

I do believe that when the rubber hits the road, people will pay more
attention to these dramatic investments in their quality of life and —
and listen more closely to these important issues.

But that’s politics. I want to make sure we stay closely to the
policies.

Q Quick follow on lead pipes, too. Is the administration still on track
to do that in the next decade?

DIRECTOR BENJAMIN: As far — as far as I understand.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Go ahead, Jeremy.

Q Thank you. Mr. Mayor, the President said yesterday that he will speak
to the people of Jacksonville. Does he have any plans to visit the city
and to meet with folks? And has he spoken yet with any of the families
of the victims of that shooting?

DIRECTOR BENJAMIN: Well, as of right now, the President has spoken to
the mayor and to the sheriff. Now, obviously, as Karine mentioned, he
had a separate conversation with the governor today.

As of right now, I don’t think there are any travel plans. But,
obviously, that is always subject to change.

Q Has he reached out to the — to the families of victims or does he have
any plans to speak with them?

DIRECTOR BENJAMIN: As far as I know — I think the — the victims are only
identified as of this morning. So, I don’t believe that, but I can’t
speak to it with any — any facts.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Toluse.

Q Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Mayor. Obviously, students are going back to
school around this time of year. The President has talked about book
bans; a lot of these bans are going into effect. Could you talk about
what the White House — what the administration is doing to address the
fact that, as we — as you talked about earlier, parts of Black history,
parts of American history are being impacted by these book bans in
various states?

DIRECTOR BENJAMIN: Sure. No, it’s a — it’s — it’s so important. And
purely if — if some people — you know, we come from a world where we
know that even two people equally (inaudible) can see the same thing
very differently. Rewriting history is not necessarily one of those
things.

But if you do see these things philosophically differently, it’s
important to know, however, that our children, if we’re going to compete
on a global stage, must at least know their own history. You can’t step
into a job interview on one of the other continents and the people in
that room know more about your history than you do.

And I think — I think purely as a matter of competition, not — not
equity and common sense — it’s important that children understand,
again, the beauty of the greatest democratic nation in the history of
the world but also the challenges that brought us to this point.

So, I do know this is something that the President and Vice President
feel very strongly about and will continue to make sure that we make
full access to American history available to all of our children.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Go ahead. Last question. In the back.

Q Thank you. Mayor Benjamin, I’m hoping I can get your reaction — both
as one of the President’s top advisors and also just a Black man living
in America — to former President Trump’s supporters comparing his
mugshot to that of Dr. King, given the anniversary that we’re
celebrating here in D.C. this week.

I don’t know if you’ve seen that, but there have been a lot of posts on
social media.

DIRECTOR BENJAMIN: I’ve not seen that, and I feel better that I haven’t
seen that.

The reality is that the sacrifices made by Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. —
and not just him — and A. Philip Randolph and Bayard Rustin and Whitney
Young and others ought never be minimized. And — because they not only
represent the leaders of the past — I sat with Clarence Jones this
weekend and Ambassador Andrew Young and heard some of these stories
firsthand — but they represent the sacrifices of so many people we don’t
know — people who labored in anonymity who gave everything, who marched
and cried and died so that this nation might live up to its better
angels, might live up to its promise.

And I think it’s so important that as we look backward, that we work to
preserve the importance of that legacy because it’s going to quickly
determine how we look forward and determine what America is going to be
like not 60 years ago, but 60 years from now.

Thank you all so much.

Q Thank you, Mayor.

Q Come back anytime.

DIRECTOR BENJAMIN: I don’t know about that. We’ll see. (Laughter.)

Q Please do come back.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Please do come back. Thank you, Mayor. Please do come
back.

Q Sooner than 60 years? Let’s do that.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Not sure of the connection, but okay.

Chris.

Q Hi, how are you? The President and the First Lady visited a middle
school today. Test scores for this age group are the lowest in decades,
despite billions of dollars in investment from this administration. Is
the White House’s approach failing in not improving these test scores?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: If anything, look, there’s going to be a lot of more
work to do. Right? That is understandable that — that the work doesn’t —
doesn’t end, you know — didn’t end when the President was able to open
up schools, as I mentioned at the top.

Remember, when the President walked in, more than 50 percent of schools
were shut down because of COVID, because the last administration didn’t
have a plan, didn’t have a comprehensive plan to deal with COVID and
what it was doing to our economy and what it was doing to our kids.

And because the President put that — put schools reopening and
businesses reopening and making sure that people got shots in arms —
made that a priority — we were able to open up the schools.

Now, is there more work to do? Absolutely. As we’ve seen, the pandemic —
COVID has had a devastating effect on our kids. And — and so, look, the
President is committed to — to making sure that education for all of our
children — regardless if you’re in rural America, urban America, all
across the communities — is — it’s a priority and this — that the
students and the kids get what they need.

And it’s not just education, right? We talked about mental health,
right? We talked about kids making sure that they’re getting healthy
lunches. Right? That is something that this administration has provided.

And so, we’ve seen the data. We’ve seen the numbers. What it means to us
is that more work needs to be done. And we’re committed and this
President and this administration is committed to doing that work.

Q So, what is that next step?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Look, we’re going to hear — as I mentioned, Secretary
Cardona is going to go on a bus tour. He’s going to go across the
country as we’re — as school is opening up. He’s going to lay out what
the Department of Education is doing to continue to improve our schools
to make sure that students get the education and get the rightful- —
rightfully, the education that they deserve. And so, the work continues.

I don’t have — I don’t have a 10-step laid out for you, but I can say
for sure that this President is committed. And you see that through the
Secretary of Education. And, of course, this is something that’s
incredibly important to the First Lady as well.

Q Also, a new AP poll asked Americans an open-ended question on their
thoughts on the President. And the most common response has to do with
his age — how old he is, the oldest president in history. Does the White
House have additional plans to demonstrate that he can continue to, you
know, do the job at his advanced age and, kind of, allay some of those
concerns?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I mean, look — look, I appreciate the question. I get
the — I get it often, as you know. And what I would say — and I’ve said
this many times, and many of my colleagues have said this, the President
says this: If you watch him, if you’ve seen what he’s done in the last
two years, this is — the President has had an historic administration in
just two years.

If you look at the 13.- — 13.5 — more than 13.5 million jobs that he’s
been able to create; if you look at how he’s been able to turn the
economy around so that it works for middle-class Americans; if you look
at the Inflation Reduction Act and what it’s going to do to really help
— to really help Americans as it relates to healthcare, as it relates to
utility bills; if you think about the CHIPS and Sci- —

I mean, this is a president who has done hist- — who has taken historic
actions — and not just with Democrats on the Hill, but in a bipartisan
way.

I just mentioned the CHIPS and Science Act, the PACT Act. In many ways,
this President has been able to do things that is going to change how
American families move forward, whether it is economic — with the
economy, whether it’s healthcare, whether, you know, it is trying to
make sure that they are able to — to give to their — you know, do what
they can for their family, for their kids. That is important.

And so, that’s what we will happily — happily to discuss as we — as it
relates to age, what the President has been able to do and how he’s been
able to deliver.

Q And the last question is — the press pool spotted President walk into
the Oval Office with his personal physician, Dr. O’Connor, a few minutes
ago. Did — is there an appointment? Did he have a meeting about a health
concern? Did —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: This is the first time I’m hearing of that. Clearly, I
did not see that, so I can’t — I can’t speak to that. I just don’t know.

Go ahead.

Q Thank you, Karine. Good to see you. Following up —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Good to see you. It’s been a while.

Q It has for a lot of us, but good to be here. Still has the new
briefing room smell. (Laughter.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Oh, it does. Like a new car.

Q Yeah.

In the call he had with the governor of Florida this morning regarding
the approaching storm and the shooting in Jacksonville, any chance the
President raised his concerns with the governor about the state’s new
slavery education standards?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, they kept it to — they kept it to what the readout
was. Clearly, we always be — are very careful not to read out private
conversation. They talked about — clearly, about the President offering
any assistance that the governor might need as — as we are talking about
the Jacksonville shooting, as you all know, and also the storm, Idalia,
that is headed to — to Florida.

That is, kind of, the — the — that is clearly what’s on everybody’s mind
as we see this potential Category 3 storm and as a community is
mourning.

I don’t have anything else to read out from that call. But clearly,
those are the two, kind of, pertinent things at the moment that they
were able to discuss.

And the President wanted to make sure that he — that not just the
governor, but the people of Florida knew and understood that this is the
Pres- — the President, the federal government is — is with them through
their — through the different — through the different kind of events
that they’re dealing with at this time.

Q And if need be, they’ll get back on the phone together in the next few
days or —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: If need be. Absolutely.

Q Okay.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: If need be.

And let’s not forget the major declaration the President approved within
hours — right? — as I — as I mentioned, as we are now watching this
potential Category 3 hurricane that’s — that could hit Florida, which is
important.

Q Two others, if I could. Now that we know that he’s officially going to
Vietnam, it raises a question we’ve sort of had throughout the year. And
that is: Are there still plans to somehow, someday soon, meet with
Chinese President Xi?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Well, I’m just going to go back to what the President
said during his press conference at Camp David very recently; he spoke
to this. Don’t have anything else to add. He has been very clear that he
is looking forward to having that discussion at some point. I just don’t
have anything to share on this now.

Q The White House would like to do that this year?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Just don’t — I’m not going to put a timeline on it.
But, you know, they’ve spoken multiple times in the past two years — or
more than two years of this President’s tenure. I just don’t have
anything else to share.

Q And the House Speaker, yesterday, said moving towards impeachment now
is, quote, “a natural step forward” and would be an opportunity for
Congress to “get all the information they need.” Those were his words.

What is the White House’s response to the apparent march to impeachment
by House Republicans? And does it make working with him this fall, on
matters of dollars and cents especially, any more difficult?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, look — look, Ed, you know, I can’t really speak to
the House Republicans and what they’re focusing on. They can speak to
that. You’ve heard from Speaker McCarthy. Not going to dive into what’s
in his head or what they’re thinking or what they want to do on the
other side of Pennsylvania.

The President is focused on what real Americans care about — the real
priorities that Americans care about.

I just talked about how the President and the First Lady visited a
middle school today. And one of the message that he wanted to make sure
that was hi- — that he highlighted is the importance of every child in
America having access to quality education — public education. And — and
also, let’s not forget what’s — what we’re celebrating today — 60 years
— or commemorating today. That’s what the President is going to focus
on.

Later this week, he’s going to focus on lowering healthcare costs, which
is something that this administration has worked on the past two years.
Response to Maui wildfire. You just asked me about his conversation with
the governor of Florida and what they’re dealing with — a very
devastating shooting that we saw in — in the city of Jacksonville and
this hurricane that’s — that’s about to hit — potentially hit Florida.
Those are the things that the President is going to focus on.

Look, and you asked me if — how the President is going to work with
Speaker McCarthy. Look, this is a president who wants to work in a
bipartisan way. And he has been able to do that, as it relates to
historical pieces of legislation. He wants to continue to do that. And
he hopes congressional Republicans will continue to join him, or join
him on doing that.

And that’s going to be — that’s going to be his focus, instead of, you
know, more baseless political stunts. That’s what they — that’s what
they’re focusing on.

Q Some of the frustration appears to be the inability to get information
out of the State Department, the Homeland Security Department, other
aspects of the government. Is there any validity to those criticisms, in
the view of the White House? Or should the White House be, perhaps,
urging departments to cooperate with ongoing investigations?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Look, we always — we are always — of course urge — urge
different agencies and departments to — you know, to — to work with
Congress. Of course, that is something that we will always urge. And —
and I can’t speak to — to — to that, to what they’re complaining about.

What I can speak to is what the President is focused on. And, again, we
want to work in a bipartisan way with congressional Republicans. That’s
what we want to do. We want to get things done for the American people —
issues that actually matter to them, not these political stunts that
they’re clearly focused on.

Go ahead, Mary.

Q Three U.S. Marines were killed in this Osprey crash in Australia
during a training exercise. Has the President been briefed on any early
read or early information about the potential cause of this? Any sense
about whether it was, you know, weather related, mechanical?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, any specifics to what caused it and what was
related to it, I would certainly refer you to the Department of Defense
for any specific questions.

Yesterday, the President extended his condolences to the families of the
Marines who lost their lives in this horrific, horrific crash, as well
as his prayers to those who also suffered injuries.

Any — any additional information on the specifics of the crash or what —
what caused the crash, I would have to refer you to the Department of
Defense.

Q Does the President have any broader concerns that we are seeing, it
seems, you know, too many of these aviation incidents, these — these
mishaps in the military? Does he feel there needs to be some sort of
reevaluation or reconsideration of — of training or focus on
maintenance?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Look, the President is — of course is — when it comes
to our military force, he’s always going to be concerned. He’s always
going to want to make sure that they have everything that they need and,
of course, that they’re safe.

Anything related to this — I don’t want to get ahead of what the
Department of Defense might be looking into, what might be causing this.
I don’t want to get ahead of them. So they would have to answer more
specifically on those questions.

Q Just one additional —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Sure.

Q — question on the House Speaker. He’s also said that he’s likely to
investigate the federal response to the deadly wildfires on Maui, saying
he’s very concerned about the response. What do you make of that? And
does the White House stand by your response and your efforts in the
aftermath —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, a couple of things —

Q — of this tragedy? Anything you would do differently?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: No, I — I appreciate the question. A couple of things
that I want to say. Since the onset of the unprecedented tragedy that we
saw in Maui, the President launched a whole-of-government approach —
you’ve heard me say that; you’ve heard him say it directly; you also
heard the FEMA Administrator say this as well — an effort to — to
support the residents who were affected by — the communities.

Let’s not forget, they not only — they lost so much. They lost
historical land. They lost their community.

And — and also, as soon as the governor in Hawaii, Josh Green — and he
has said this himself — requested a major disaster declaration, the
President signed it. And you’ve heard from the governor. You’ve heard
from the two senators who have — who have lifted up and said how quickly
this President responded, the federal government responded. So, I would
just refer you to — to their own words.

Last week, as you all saw — a week — a week ago today, the President,
the First Lady, they met with survivors. They met with emergency
responders and state and local and federal officials. They saw firsthand
themselves the overwhelming destruction that caused the wildfires, and
it was heartbreaking.

And so, the — what I can say here and now, and as the President has
said, he is committed to delivering everything that he — he can to the
people of Hawaii — what they need — and we will be with them as long as
it takes for them to rebuild. The President has been very clear about
that. The First Lady, clearly, has supported that. The FEMA
Administrator has said that.

I will say this — what — what is currently on the ground: The federal
government has deployed more than a thousand staff members on the
ground, and the — FEMA has already given nearly $15 million in
assistance to families.

And so, again, we will be there, the federal government will be there,
certainly at the direction of the President, as long as it takes for
this community to rebuild. And, certainly, our hearts are — continue to
be with — with the families and the people in Hawaii who have lost so
much.

Go ahead, Steve.

Q Have you got any closer to determining what brought down Prigozhin’s
plane?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, look, a couple of things on — a couple of things on
that. I know that folks have had questions on Prigozhin.

So — so, we are increasingly confident that Prigozhin died in the plane
crash that took place on August 23rd, this past Wednesday. I don’t have
any new assessment on th- — on — for you on this. So, I’ll just — I’ll
just leave it there.

Q And, secondly, the President said in Tahoe that he had tentatively
decided to recommend everyone get the new vaccine. When is he going to
decide finally?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, as — I think you’ve heard from the FDA and CDC,
they’ve made an announcement on the new vaccine. So, certainly, they
said that they will have an — there’ll be an updated vaccine September —
mid-September —

Q I think so.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: — I believe.

So, we know that, as you all know, vaccinations against COVID-19 remains
the safest protection for avoiding hospitalization, long-term health
outcomes, and death, which is why we are — we are going to be
encouraging Americans to stay up to date on their vaccines.

I would refer you to DHS \[HHS\], as they have — as you — I just
mentioned, FDA and CDC mentioned that they will have the new vaccines by
September — mid-September.

Go ahead, Jeremy.

Q Thanks, Karine. We’re about a month away from the government running
out of money and potentially shutting down. What’s the President’s plan
to avert a government shutdown?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, look, I’ll defer to Congress on — on on the
government shutdown. There should be no reason — right? — for Congress
to shut down the government. None at all. None. They should fund vital
government programs for the American people and these critical needs
we’ve requested emergency funding for. There should be none. And so,
that is for Congress to speak to.

And, as you know — you know, senior administration officials, including
the OMB — OMB Director Shalanda Young and our Legislative Affairs shop —
we have had numerous conversations with members of Congress. We’ll
continue to do that. And — and we’ll continue to engage with them, and
we’ll continue to underscore the importance of delivering on these
bipartisan priorities that was agreed upon, that the American people
want to see.

And so, look, that is for Congress to answer. There should not be a
government shutdown. There shouldn’t be.

Q Does the President support passing a short-term spending bill to keep
the government funded? And does he have any plans to speak with the
Speaker about this?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, look, you know, again, that’s something that I’ll
defer to Congress on the length of potential continuing resolution.
Again, there should be no reason for a government shutdown.

I don’t have any conversation to — to read out or to — to predict for
you that the President is going to have with the Speaker. As I
mentioned, the OMB — OMB Director Shalanda Young has been in — in
contact with members of Congress, so has his Legislative Affairs shop.
They have been — have continuous conversations about this, underscoring
the importance — the importance of these vital programs that the
American people need.

And so, they should uphold — uphold this bipartisan commitment. That’s
what the American people want to see.

Q And then, as it relates to COVID vaccine funding, the President said
that he had signed off on a proposal internally to present Congress with
a request for additional funding. Do you have any additional details
about the size of that funding request, what it would be used for, and
what would the impact be if Congress does not provide that additional
funding on Americans and their ability to get that vaccine?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, I don’t have anything new to say or to add to what
the President — what the President said at this time.

What I can say is that we are prepared for the fall — as the CDC and FDA
mentioned, that we will have vaccines available by mid-September. We are
— we believe we are in the strongest position yet to — to fight
COVID-19. A lot of that is because of this work that this President has
done since day one of his administration.

Go ahead.

Q Thank you, Karine. A couple of weeks ago, some members of Congress —
it was over 50 Republicans and Democrats — they sent a letter to the
administration asking for help with H-1B workers and the backlog.

In light of concerns about Canada recuiting — recruiting H-1B holders
from the United States, I wanted to ask: Does the administration agree
with these members of Congress that these workers — these H-1B workers —
need more flexibility to do things like change jobs, travel abroad, for
example?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, look, as we have said many times before: This is an
outdated immigration system.

We’ve asked Congress to update our woefully outdated immigration system
— we’ve been very clear on that — including — including the temporary
visa programs that haven’t been updated in more than two decades — in
more than two decades.

And so, under current regulations, as you know, workers on certain
temporary visas usually have 60 days to secure new employment, pursue a
different visa classification, or make preparations to depart the United
— the United States.

So, Congress needs to do their job and pass legisla- — legislation
updating our immigration laws to reflect the needs of where we are —
where we are currently in this 21st-century economy.

So, look, the President, even on his first day — as we’ve said many
times before — he put forth an immigration-reform legislation, because
he took this very seriously. He wanted to make sure that we — we — that
was part of — part of the — that was the first piece of legislation that
he put forward on day one, because this is such a broken system.

Q They’re — they’re asking specifically, though, for executive action.
Is the adm- — is the administration not willing —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: We —

Q — to go that far?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: We are saying that Congress needs to do their job.
That’s what we’re saying. They are — they — this has been two decades
since this particular visa has been upgraded and updated. And so, it’s
for Congress to act. That’s what they need to do.

Q And can I ask you — just briefly, can you talk about Thursday, the
Philadelphia trip? What’s — what’s the plan?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, I don’t have anything to share on Thursday. We’ll
certainly have more to share in a coming day or two.

Go ahead.

Q On China, there are a lot of different tension points, but one of them
has — we’ve been reminded of. And that is the fact that China retains
ownership of all the pandas at the zoos in the United States, including
the Smithsonian National Zoo. And is there any chance the President is
going to ask President Xi to let the pandas stay?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: (Laughs.) I think the panda is supposed to leave at the
end of the year?

Q At the end year.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Okay. So, I don’t have anything new to share — any
update to share on — on the panda’s timeline. But as soon as — if we
have anything to share, we certainly will share it.

Q Would the President share the concern of many Americans who love the
pandas?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: (Laughs.) Look, we all love the panda. I just — this is
not a conversation I’ve had with the President. (Laughter.) I appreciate
the question, Kelly O.

Q You didn’t see that one coming?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I did not see that one coming.

Q Okay.

Q Let the record reflect she is grinning and bearing it.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I know my — my kid loves the panda, as well as so many
other Americans across the country who have visited and seen this panda.
But I don’t have anything to share.

I’ve missed you. Welcome back.

Q Thank you. It’s good to be back.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah? How’s baby Karine?

Q (Laughs.) She — she’s good. She —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Or baby KJP.

Q — very nice to her dad.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Oh, during your — your — your leave?

Q Just like adult KJP. (Laughter.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Oh, that’s good. I like — that’s good. Well, okay.

Q I have another question that you probably were not expecting.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Okay.

Q Does President Biden want to limit Americans to two beers a week?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I — I — where is this coming from?

Q It’s coming —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Maybe I did- — maybe I didn’t miss you so much.
(Laughter.)

Where is this — where is this coming from?

Q All right, well —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: (Laughs.)

Q Dr. George Koob, who is the director of the National Institute of
Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism, says the U.S. may soon follow Canada and
recommend just two beers a week. How do you guys think that’s going to
go over?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Let me tell you what I’m not going to get involved in —
in that in that question right there. I — I have no idea. I’ve not seen
the data. I cannot speak to this. I will leave it to the experts and not
weigh in.

Q So, if the experts say two beers a week —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I — I —

Q — that’s okay with President Biden?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I will leave it to the experts. I’m just not going to
comment on that.

Q Okay.

Something else: The Secret Service is paying $16,000 a month now to
stage near Hunter Biden in Malibu. Who’s paying for that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: That’s a question for the Secret Service.

Q Okay.

Hunter Biden is reportedly selling art to pay for his $15,800 a month
rent in Malibu. How can you guarantee that people are not going to be
buying this art to gain favor with the President?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: That is a question for Hunter Biden and his
representatives.

Q It’s — it’s a question of —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I — I know. I hear — I hear —

Q — of ethics at the White House.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I hear your question.

Q We know that one of the art buyers got a job from the Biden
administration. Can you guarantee that there is no —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I hear — I hear your question.

Q — quid pro quo?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I’m not going to get involved in this. That is a
question for Hunter Biden’s representatives.

Q So — but we know that from a Hunter Biden associate now that he sold
the appearance of access to then-Vice President Biden. Are you confident
that he has stopped doing that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: That is a question for Hunter Biden and his
representatives.

Q If somebody is selling the appearance of access to the White House —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: That is — that is —

Q — that is a question for the White House.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: No, that is — that is your — your — I don’t know — how
you’re perceiving that.

Q That is my reading of sworn —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I — I —

Q — testimony by Devon Archer. He said —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I — I am just not — Peter, I’m just not going to get
into this. I’m just not.

Q So, this testimony — since the last time that I was in here, Devon
Archer talks about how he and Hunter Biden tried to profit off the Biden
brand. What is the Biden brand?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I’m not going to get into it from here. I’m not going
to get into it from here. We’re going to move on.

Go ahead.

Q Thanks. I have a question. First of all, happy first day of school.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Happy first day of school.

Q But seriously, what is the message that the administration has for the
millions of girls in Afghanistan who can’t go to school because the
Taliban won’t let them?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, look, the President has always been very clear
about the importance of girls — not just here in America but globally —
being able to — to live freely and be able to go to school and get the
education.

And so — and we have been very clear in laying out our concerns, such as
girls’ education, with the Taliban. We have been consistent with that.
We’ve been very clear of that. And so, we also remain laser-focused on
trying to support and assist the Afghan people without bolstering the
Taliban.

And so, that’s something that we’re going to continue to do. That’s
something that the President is going to continue to be clear about —
not just him but his administration. And so, that doesn’t end today or —
or — and two years ago. That certainly will continue throughout his
administration.

Q Do you have a message for the girls themselves, I guess?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Well, look, we have — this is — this is a president,
this is an administration that certainly supports girls being educated —
again, not just here but also in Afghanistan. We are going to make that
very clear as we — as we consistently assess our relationship and
approach — right? — with the Taliban.

That — that is going to continue. And we’re going to assist — we’re
going to assist the Afghanistan — Afghan people as much as we can —
right? — without bolstering the Taliban. And that has been our
commitment — our commitment — not just the last two years, certainly,
for the past few decades.

Q And then, quickly on Vietnam: The statement you put out doesn’t
mention human rights or the fact that the chairman is the leader of a
socialist communist country that has been backsliding on human rights.
Is that going to be part of the conversations? And what —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: And you’ve heard us say this many times — you’ve heard
it from our national security advisor; you’ve heard it from — from the
President; you’ve heard it from many members of this administration —
that this is a president that never shies away on bringing up human
rights with any leader.

And so, I’m not going to get ahead of the agenda. I’m not going to get
ahead of a conversation. But certainly, this is not something that the
President — when it comes to human rights, it’s not something that the
President shies away from and bring — he certainly brings that up.

Go ahead.

Q Thanks, Karine. The President was asked yesterday if he would speak to
Governor DeSantis and responded by saying that he’d speak directly to
the people in Jacksonville. Did he just mean at the top of his remarks
later this afternoon? Or is he planning to travel to Jacksonville?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, I don’t — as — as the Mayor just stated, we don’t —
we’re not tracking, certainly, any — any travel to Jacksonville.

The President — you saw the President’s statement. You heard it from me,
you heard it from — from the mayor — our — our hearts going out to the
people in Jacksonville. Certainly, we’re going to do everything that we
can. We — the President spoke to the sheriff. He spoke to the mayor.

So, don’t — just don’t have anything else to share beyond that.

Q On Vietnam, Politico reported that part of what would be announced —
and I know you gave kind of a long readout at the top — was the
strategic partnership agreement on AI and semiconductors. Is the — are
you expecting them to sign that while he is there?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, we’ll have more to share on that trip — on the
agenda, deliverables, what we’re — what we’re expecting the conversation
to look like and to be. I just don’t want to get ahead of that at this
time.

Q Last one. While you were gone, there was a report that you guys were
considering a meeting with MBS around the G20. He’ll obviously be
attending, I think, for the first time as a — sort of the Head — Head of
State designate, and it comes as energy prices have been high this
summer and headed into next summer where there’s a lot of anticipation
that they could remain there. So, I’m wondering if that’s something
that’s actively in the works or —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, don’t have any — don’t have anything to share on
any bilateral meetings that the President might have on — at the G20. If
we were to have any, certainly we will lay that out for all of you or
announce that to all of you.

Q Do you have any sort of topline stuff about what you’re hoping to
accomplish with the — at the G20?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: The G20 more broadly? So, he’s going to reaffirm — the
President will reaffirm the U.S. commitment to the G- — at — to the G20
as the premier forum of economic cooperation globally. He’ll discuss a
range of joint efforts to tackle global issues, from the clean energy
transition and combating climate change; to mitigating the — the
economic and social impacts of Russia’s war in Ukraine — obviously, that
will be a big part of the conversation; to increasing the capacity of
the multilateral development banks, including the World Bank, to better
fight poverty and take on the significant transnational challenges that
are affect- — afflicting countries across the world.

So, we have a packed agenda, as you can imagine. And we’ll have more to
share in the coming days. And, again, any bilateral or meetings that
could potentially happen around the G20, we certainly will share that
with all of you.

Go ahead, Toluse.

Q Thanks, Karine. Want to get your response to some comments from
Senator Sanders over the weekend. He said the President has every right
to be proud of his record, but he seemed to suggest that the President
should spend less time touting his record and Bidenomics and more time
speaking to the anxieties of Americans who are still struggling in the
current economy. He said, “Democrats, up and down the line, are going to
have to be much clearer to the American people as to what they stand
for.” I wonder if you have any reaction to that.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, look, first, we’re very thankful to Senator Sanders
for, certainly, being partners with us in passing some of the key
pillars of Bidenomics, right? When you think about the key pieces of
legislation — historical pieces of legislation that had led to
unemployment being under 4 percent, when it led to millions of jobs
being created, when it leads to the middle class really building —
rebuilding that middle class, not leaving anyone behind, certainly
Senator Sanders has been a key partner. And we really appreciate the
efforts that — his leadership, I should say, in Congress, and making
that happen.

And so, look, we — we agree with the — with the senator, right? When it
comes to — what we’re doing is just the beginning, right? This is like —
this is — this is part of trying to make sure that we do build a middle
class; that we build an economy from the bottom up, middle out. That is
incredibly important to this President. That’s why he has said that the
last two years. This is not just the last two years. He doesn’t believe
in trickle-down economics. He knows that doesn’t work.

And so, when it comes to — when it comes to the President going out
there and talking to the American people directly to let them know what
this administration has been able to do with the help of — of senators
like Sanders, I think it’s important — we think it’s important for them
to hear directly from this administration.

And so, look, we think there’s more work to do. We’re going to hear from
this President this week about how he’s going to continue to lowers cost
— right? — low- — lower healthcare costs for Americans — something that
the President, you know, has — has been leading on, and has — his
administration has continuously put out ways to do that — Inflation
Reduction Act, how it’s going to be able to help Americans lower costs —
healthcare costs, how it’s going to be able to make sure seniors are —
are not paying more than 35 bucks on insulin.

All those things are key. They’re critical. They’re important. And so,
the work continues. The work continues. And so, we agree with the
senator: Yes, the work continues. And we’re going to — hopefully we can
work — continue to work together with him on getting that done, getting
more done — done for the American people and American families.

Go ahead, Karen.

Q Thanks. To go back to the President’s comments from Fri- — Friday
about the COVID funding request, when he said he was asking — or he’d
signed off on a proposal to present to Congress a request for additional
funding for a new vaccine, why was that not included in the $40 billion
supplemental funding request to Congress that was sent out this month?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I just — I don’t have anything else to share on the
President’s comments at this time. So, I want to be very clear at that.
Just don’t have anything more to add.

What I can say is that we are prepared for the fall. We believe that
we’re prepared for the fall. We believe that we’re in a better position
than we’ve ever been to combat COVID-19. And that’s because of the work
that the President has done. You heard from FDA, you heard from CD- —
CDC, pardon me, who have said that there’s going to be new vaccine
that’s going to be available mid-September.

And, look, because of the work that this administration has done, with
the leadership of this President, we have been able to put together a
comprehensive way to deal with this pandemic, to deal with COVID-19. And
we have put forth multiple tools to do that. And a vaccine, clearly, is
one of that.

As — as it relates to what the President said, I just don’t have
anything to add at this time.

Q And on that new vaccine that’s going to be available in mid-September,
the CDC data — it says that only 56 million Americans, 17 percent of the
population, received the updated shot last year. What type of public
messaging campaign or effort will the administration and the White House
be doing starting in mid-September to get people to get that shot — to
get more people than last year to get that shot?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: As you know, Karen, this is an issue that you have
followed very closely for the past two years. And you have known that
this — this administration, when it comes to informing the American
people about these vaccines, about the different tools that this Pres- —
that this President and this administration has put forward, we have
really put informing Americans as a priority. And so, we’ll continue to
do that.

We know that — that COVID-19 vaccinations are the safest to protect —
protection for avoiding hospitalization, long-term health outcomes, and
death. And that is why we are going to continue to encourage Americans
to stay up to date on their vaccines. And so, you’ll hear more from us
on that.

And as you know, that is something — when it comes to informing
Americans, American families about this vacc- — about the vaccine, we
certainly have been really — something that we put at the forefront as
we move forward with our comprehensive approach to dealing with this
pandemic.

I would also refer you to the HHS on anything more — specifics on this
new vaccine.

Go ahead.

Q Thank you, Karine. Question on foreign policy. Israel’s foreign
minister revealed that he met with his Libyan counterpart, which lead to
her firing and demonstrations in protest. Does this complicate the
administration efforts to expanding on the Abraham Accords and kill any
chance of normalization now between Israel and Libya? It was reported
that the administration is angry at the Israeli leak of the story.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, on that particular question, I would have to refer
you to the Libyan Government of National Unity and the government of
Israel. That’s where I would have to refer you on that particular
question. I just don’t have anything else to share on that.

Q Mr. Burns went to Libya, and he met with the Prime Minister. And he
encouraged him, apparently, to approach Israel for this special
relationship. So, the administration has an interest in this.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: No, I understand the question.

On any conversation or meeting, I would have to refer you to the
respective governments.

Go ahead.

Q Given what you’ve said so far about the President’s preparing for —
for COVID and being ready for any sort of fall surge and what the
President said today at the middle school, does the administration
believe that all of the resources are in place, that they’re adequate
should there be a case uptick that maybe is concerning to some districts
and they maybe consider whether or not to leave kids in the classroom?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, a couple of things. So, I’ve talked about the
historic progress that our administration has made in the ability to
manage COVID-19 so that it’s no longer a meaningful disrup- — disruption
to — to the way that we move in our day-to-day life, right? So, that is
something that the President has taken seriously.

We’re — we believe we are in the strongest position yet — in the
strongest position yet to deal with COVID-19, as I’ve said multiple
times at this — at this point and — you know, any — anything that we
might see in the fall or in the winter.

And that’s because safe and updated vaccines that will be available in
mid-September — widely available at-home COVID, tests. Right? I talked
about the different tools that this — this administration has been able
to — to put forward: widely available and effective treatments, which
can reduce the risk of severe illness, hospitalization, and death.

And we are also going to encourage — we’re going to encourage Americans
to get their updated COVID-19 vaccine, in addition to their annual flu
shot — let’s not forget — that is important for Americans to get — and
RSV immunization for people over 60 and for infants. That is something
that we’re going to continue to make very clear to Americans across —
across the country.

As it relates to any uptick nationally: While the CDC is reporting an
increase in infections and hospital — and hospitals — hospital
admissions overall remains low.

But, again, we believe that we are in a good position — in the strongest
position that we have been in the past three years or so to deal — to
deal with COVID — COVID-19. There’s going to be an updated vaccine in
mid-September.

We’re going to continue to encourage Americans to get their updated
vaccine, to stay updated on their vaccines more broadly, but also to
make sure they get their RSV and also to make sure that they’re getting
the flu shot.

Q But I guess specifically though, is there a message to school
districts as kids are back in school now? And, you know, it’s not just
COVID. As you’ve mentioned, there’s a lot of things that can make kids,
you know —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah. No, I total- —

Q — sick this time of year.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I mean, that’s why we — I mentioned the RSV. That’s why
I mentioned the flu, right? That — those — all of those things are
important for Americans to stay updated on.

So, as kids returns to school, to your point, CDC continues to — to
recommend that people are up to date, again, on their COVID-19 vaccines.
The agency has also laid out a number of steps people can take to keep
themselves and their loved ones safe.

If you — they — if folks go to CDC.gov. It’s important if — if Americans
or if families across the country have any concerns, any questions, they
should go to CDC.gov. And they’ll lay out ways to protect their loved
ones, to protect their kids.

Decisions at the — is at the district level. As you all know, when it
comes to any decisions on what tools they’re going to use, whether it’s
masking or whatever — however they’re going to move forward, that is
something that’s decided on a local level.

But, again, the CDC has a — has laid out ways for folks to — for schools
and — and families to move forward if they have concerns.

But, again, we are encouraging — we are going to continue to encourage
folks to be updated on their vaccine. The RSV — let’s not forget. Make
sure they get that. And also the flu — the flu vaccine.

All of those things are incredibly important, as we head into the fall
and winter months, to keep — to keep our loved ones safe.

Go ahead.

Q Thanks, Karine. The — so, on oil. The administration is engaging now
with dictator Nicolás Maduro to increase oil production. Why not,
through regulation, show encouragement here in the U.S. for oil
production?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, a couple of things. So, we continue — the U.S. is
going to continue to work to support the restoration of democracy and
the rule of law in Venezuela. That is something that we’re going to
continue to do.

And it has been our longstanding position: Should Venezuela take
concrete actions toward restoring democracy leading to free and fair
elections, we are prepared to provide corresponding sanctions relief as
well.

At this time, Venezuela has not taken the necessary steps, and our
sanctions remain in effect. So, nothing has changed there.

Q So, new leases were issued for the Gulf of Mexico for drilling — yet,
in that, they removed 6 million acres of land to do that. Plus, there
were additional restrictions placed on ships, specifically for oil and
natural gas, to deliver those products. Why constrict — continue to
constrict the U.S. energy industry?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Meaning in Venezuela specifically?

Q No, no, I’m talking about — I’m talking about the Gulf of Mexico. Now
I’m talking about oil. Second —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Right.

Q — second question about it.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Okay.

Q So, there was a — new leases were offered —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah.

Q — for the Gulf of Mexico. But in those new leases, the administration
has reduced the amount of acreage by 6 million acres to do that.

And in addition, they restricted ships taking the oil from the rigs —
and natural gas — from the rigs to the shore. So, again, why continue to
add restrictions on that industry?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, we don’t believe we add restrictions on that
industries. I want to look specifically on what the — what you lay out
those restrictions were and what was provided on the Gulf of Mexico. So
I want to get back to my team and make sure that what you laid out is
exactly how it — how it was announced. And we’ll get back to you on that
particular questions. But that is not something that we believe that we
are doing.

Q One — one more on UAW.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah.

Q Is the President going to get involved? Has he been talking with UAW
at all?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Well, you heard from the President yesterday, and he
spoke — he spoke to this when he was asked about the UAW.

Clearly, he has been — this is somebody who — this is a president that
believes in investing in America, has ensured — right? — when it comes
to the future of automaking, it will be built here in America and by
American workers. He has been very clear about this.

This is a president that has overseen historic increases in labor union
participation during his time in office.

And unions themselves have labeled him as — you hear us say this all the
time — the most pro-union president.

And so, look, we’re not going to read out every — every conversation
that this President has with parties in these negotiations, but the
White House remains in close touch, as we have been in many other — in
many of these other discussions with the UAW and the Big Three
Automakers.

And, look, the President believes in collective bargaining, as we — you
hear him — and you hear us say all the time. And it has worked. We have
seen it worked in the past two years.

Q I think it’s time to gather for the next event.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Okay. Oh, that — oh, yeah, we have to gather for the
next event.

We’ll see you tomorrow, guys. Thank you, everybody.

2:25 P.M. EDT
