---
date: '2023-08-14'
published_time: 2023-08-14 18:31:26-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2023/08/14/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-and-fema-administrator-deanne-criswell-2/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre and FEMA Administrator\
  \ Deanne\_Criswell"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

2:05 P.M. EDT  
  
Q    Hey, hey.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Hey, hey.   
  
Q    Happy birthday.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, thank you.

Q    Happy belated. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Lucky number 13.  Yes, thank you.  Thank you so
much.   
  
Okay, in just a moment, I will turn it over to FEMA Administrator Deanne
Criswell, who is joining us from Hawaii to share an update on the
response to the Maui wildfires, much of which she briefed the President
on last night.  
  
So that you know, she has been in Hawaii since 2:00 a.m. Saturday
morning.  So, she was there for two full days.  And, as you know, she’s
still there right now.   
  
But before I do that, I want to once again say, as the President said
last week, that he and the First Lady are praying for families who are
grieving their loved ones and for everyone who has suffered devastating
losses of land and property as a result of the wildfires in Maui.   
  
The President continues to stay closely engaged with his team and state
and local officials to ensure our robust whole-of-government response
continues.   
  
Yesterday, he received two briefings from FEMA Administrator Criswell on
the ongoing federal response — a written update in the morning and a
phone call last night.   
  
The President has stayed engaged with Hawaii Governor Josh Green, and
they’ve spoken twice in recent days to make sure he gets every resource
he needs.   
  
The President also spoke by phone on Friday with Senator Hirono.   
  
With all of these officials, the President has had a comprehensive
discussion about the remaining challenges, the need to prioritize the
safety and health of residents who have been displaced, and long-term
recovery. 

As the President said in his remarks last Thursday, he is committed to
ensuring Hawaii has everything they need in the days, weeks, and months
ahead.   
  
Early last week, the President began marshaling a whole-of-government
response to the wildfires.  Within hours of receiving the state’s
disaster declaration request last Thursday, he approved it and ordered
all available federal assets to support the response.  He dispatched the
FEMA Administrator, the U.S. Fire Administrator, and other officials to
work with state and local officials to assess the needs on the ground. 
And they are providing regular updates to him and the White House
team.   
  
There are already more than 300 FEMA employees on the ground aiding
response efforts.  FEMA has provided 50,000 meals, 75,000 liters of
water, 5,000 cots, and 10,000 blankets to the county government for
distribution.  
  
The Coast Guard and the Navy Third Fleet supported response and rescue
effort the day after the fires first started, and the Marines provided
Black Hawk helicopters to fight fires on the Big Island.   
  
With that, Administrator Criswell will provide an update regarding the
federal response.   
  
Deanne, over to you.  Thank you for joining us.   
  
ADMINISTRATOR CRISWELL:  Yeah, absolutely.  Good morning, Karine.  I
just want to make sure first that you can hear me okay.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Wait — could — I think we need to turn it up, guys. 
You want to try one more time, Administrator?  
  
ADMINISTRATOR CRISWELL:  Yep.  Does this sound any better?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Much better.  Thank you.  The floor is yours.    
  
ADMINISTRATOR CRISWELL:  All right.  Thank you very much.  And good
morning, everybody.   
  
As you just heard, I did arrive here on the ground very early Saturday
morning at the direction of the President.  And it gave me the
opportunity to spend two full days — one full day with Governor Green
and the second full day with my staff, as well as members of the
governor’s staff — to get a true understanding of what the impact is
here on the ground.   
  
I met with some of our federal officials that have been deployed.  And I
also had an opportunity to talk to survivors and hear from them — really
some harrowing stories of survival as they evacuated from the area and
sought shelter.   
  
And while we are here, and as we continue to closely monitor the
situation on the ground, we are continuing to prioritize the safety and
the well-being of the Hawaii residents in coordination with our state
officials and all of our federal partners.   
  
As residents continue to mourn the loss of their friends, their loved
ones, their neighbors; the loss of their homes and their way of life, we
know and ha- — let them know that we are mourning with them. 

Nothing can prepare you for what I saw during my time here, and nothing
can prepare them for the emotional toll of the impact that this severe
event has taken on them.   
  
And as you heard, I have been in continuous communication with the
President since these fires started.  I have been giving him updates and
his team updates, letting him know what the federal family is doing to
support everything that Governor Green has asked for.   
  
A part of that, at the request of the state of Hawaii, FEMA has
activated our Transitional Sheltering Assistance program, which is now
available for eligible residents who were displaced from their home. 
This is FEMA’s hotel program.  And this will allow them to move from
shelters into pre-identified hotels or motels temporarily as they
develop their long-term housing strategies.  
  
That — this is in coordination with the governor, as he has also stood
up a program to provide Airbnb rooms or other hotel rooms to support
residents.  And we will be working in close coordination with each other
to make sure that everyone finds a temporary solution as they begin to
develop their plans for rebuilding.   
  
We’re also focused on getting funds into people’s hands so we can help
with some of their critical urgent needs.  This is called Critical Needs
Assistance.  And it provides $700 initially to provide food, water,
first aid, medical supplies — other, just, critical needs that they need
right now.   
  
This is in addition to what they will also be able to be eligible for in
cash assistance for the loss of their homes or the loss of their
personal property. 

So, I encourage anybody who has not registered for FEMA assistance yet
to go to DisasterAssistance.gov or contact 1-800-321-FEMA to get into
the system and start this process.   
  
We also have over 300 personnel on the ground.  Many of those can help
you also register, as we understand that connectivity is still scarce in
some areas.   
  
The response and recovery efforts — I just want to note — in Hawaii are
going to be a whole-of-government approach.  We rely on the experts of
dozens of par- — our partner agencies to make sure that we have all of
the right resources to support the recovery needs for this area and to
make sure that we are successful in providing relief to survivors.   
  
We also want to make sure that we are getting all of the appropriate
information out to survivors.  So, we are working with our state and
local partners to ensure that our outreach and our messaging is also
culturally responsive and that we can get messages out to people so they
know what is available for them.   
  
We have been on the ground since day one.  We have an office here on
Oahu that is staffed with personnel and integration members that work
side by side with the state of Hawaii each and every day, so we were
able to able to quickly integrate in with the governor’s team as these
fires started to arise.   
  
Our regional administrator was also on the ground already for a
pre-existing meeting.  And so, he was able to connect with the governor
as these fires were starting to make sure we were moving the right
resources, and our federal partners, as you’ve heard — the Coast Guard
and the Department of Defense — for providing lifesaving rescues as this
fire was evolving.   
  
The coming days and the weeks, they’re going to be tough.  They’re going
to be difficult as people process what they have lost and what the road
ahead looks like.  But we are going to be with the people of Hawaii, as
I have committed to the governor, every step of the way.   
  
We are already seeing a tremendous amount of efforts and resiliency
across the community, because they are coming together to support each
other as they work through what this is going to look like in the
future.  And together with our voluntary agencies and our federal
partners, we will be in Hawaii every step of the way to help residents
take control of their recovery and help them rebuild in a way that is
going to make them more resilient.   
  
And with that, I’ll turn it over to you for any questions.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  Thank you.   
  
All right.  She’ll take a few questions.   
  
Go ahead, Nancy.   
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  Administrator Criswell, it’s Nancy Cordes from CBS
News.  As I’m sure you know, there was a serious housing shortage in
Hawaii even before this disaster happened.  Is FEMA looking at building
any kind of temporary housing or temporary schools on Maui while people
work to rebuild, given the fact that it’s going to take them potentially
several years to rebuild their homes?  And even if they’re out there
right now looking for someplace for their families to stay short term,
it’s possible they won’t find it.  
  
ADMINISTRATOR CRISWELL:  The governor and I spoke at length about the
housing shortage and what the challenges were going to be.  He had
already conducted a housing assessment, and it had plans in place for
things that he was going to do to increase the housing stock here.   
  
What that’s going to do is it’s going to give us a place to start from,
because he already had plans in place on where he wanted to expand
housing options.  And we can combine that with what — with our federal
programs to help make that a reality.   
  
This is going to require every tool that we have in our toolbox.  We are
not going to be able to rely on all of the traditional programs that we
do in the continental United States.  And so, we are working very
closely with the governor to better understand all available options,
whether that means longer term we bring in tiny houses or our
transitional housing units to help him create the communities that he
wants.   
  
We’re not taking anything off the table, and we’re going to be very
creative in how we use our authorities to help build these communities
and help people find a place to stay for the longer term.   
  
Q    And then I know that it’s difficult to get staff and resources and
equipment from the continental U.S. to Hawaii in an expeditious manner,
but do you believe that you now have the staffing that you need to do a
house-by-house search of the disaster area looking for the deceased in
an expeditious manner?  
  
ADMINISTRATOR CRISWELL:  Yeah, I mean, as I said in my opening remarks,
you know, we have an office right here on the islands, and so that
allowed us to integrate immediately.  And it was through that
coordination that we were able to move our initial Urban Search and
Rescue teams very quickly to get into the area and begin the process.   
  
As we have learned what the extent of this search and recovery mission
is going to look like, we have sent more personnel, as well as more
cadaver dogs, to come into the area.  And they are working in
conjunction with the Maui Fire Department and the sheriff’s office to
make sure that we are doing this in a very methodical way but one that
is also very respectful of the community to make sure that we find
everybody that is unaccounted for.   
  
And so, I do believe that we have the right amount of personnel on the
ground integrating in with the local officials to do this.   
  
Q    And what’s your best estimate of how long that process will take?  
  
ADMINISTRATOR CRISWELL:  We had some initial estimates of how long it
might take, but this is a really complicated situation.  The dogs can
only work so long because of how hot the temperatures are.  There is
also hot spots, and so we have fire crews that are helping to cool down
the areas so the dogs can go in there.  I’d hate to give an exact
estimate because we want to make sure that we are precise and methodical
and respectful as we go through this.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Steve.  
  
Q    Is it possible for the President to visit without interfering with
the rescue effort?  
  
ADMINISTRATOR CRISWELL:  I think right now our focus is on making sure
that we are doing everything we can to account for everybody that has
been unaccounted for.  And the President has given me the space to make
sure I’m bringing in all of the appropriate federal personnel and
resources to do that.  And so, we will continue to do that.  
  
Right now, we want to make sure that they have, you know, all of the
resources and the space that they need and not disrupt operations right
now.   
  
Q    So, no — no visit by the President is on schedule at this moment?  
  
ADMINISTRATOR CRISWELL:  (Inaudible.)  We just want to make sure that we
are working to help this community identify everybody that’s missing,
and we need to stay focused on that right now.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you, Administrator.  Just to be clear, has the federal
government been able to fulfill every request that the state has made so
far for assistance?  And are there any delays that you are aware of
right now, given, obviously, the unique challenges of Hawaii’s
location?  
  
ADMINISTRATOR CRISWELL:  You know, the — the resources that are needed —
we continue to work with the governor and his team to better understand
what they need.  And as soon as they make a request, we make that — we
get that request in the process.   
  
One thing that I talked with the governor and his team about is: Even if
you think that you might need something a week from now or two weeks
from now, let us know ahead of time so we can get that resource moving. 
If we don’t need it, we’ll turn it around.   
  
So, at this point, I have no awareness of anything that we have not been
able to meet, and we will continue to build up our presence here on the
island to support this.  This is going to be a long-term recovery
operation.   
  
We have the resources we need today.  And as we continue to identify
what the needs are, we’ll continue to move more in.  
  
Q    And you mentioned the — how, you know, obviously, this is an
ongoing, lengthy process.  Cadaver dogs so far have only covered about 3
percent of the fire area.  You know, I think 96 victims have been
discovered so far.  Can you give us a sense just of how much — how many
people should — how much should we be braced for?  And are we talking
hundreds of deaths here?  
  
ADMINISTRATOR CRISWELL:  You know, I would, again, defer you to the
state for what they think the total estimate will be.   
  
You have to understand the situation on the ground right now.  It is
extremely hazardous.  There are structures that are partially standing
that engineers have to clear first to make sure it’s safe for the search
and rescue teams to go into, make sure it’s safe for the dogs to go
into.  We also have to make sure the dogs are able to continue their job
and — right?  So, they have their own work/rest cycles.  
  
And so, again, we j- — we want to make sure that we’re doing this as
quickly as possible, but that we do it in a way that’s methodical and
appropriate and culturally sensitive to make sure that we are going to
be able to account for everybody.  And so, we need to give them the
space and time to do that.  
  
We have brought in additional canine dogs — cadaver dogs.  They are on
the ground today, and I believe there’s a few more coming and additional
search and rescue personnel to come in and support this effort.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Seung Min.  
  
Q    There are, I believe, tens of thousands of active-duty military
personnel in Hawaii.  And I believe the Pentagon said this morning that
they haven’t yet gotten involved in any of the recovery efforts yet. 
Does FEMA see a need to get that personnel — that military personnel in
Hawaii involved in the recovery efforts, in the aid-distribution
efforts, anything along those lines?  
  
ADMINISTRATOR CRISWELL:  The Department of Defense is one of our
strongest partners, and we work with them on all of these different
types of severe weather events that we are responding to.   
  
We are in communication with INDOPACOM here as to what resources we can
utilize as we go into the recovery effort.  We have already mission
assigned the Army Corps of Engineers to help support the debris
mission.  And we will continue to work with the governor, again, to
understand what resources he needs.  And we will bring in whatever
federal partner we can to support that.   
  
It’s very nice that we have a large military presence here that we can
tap into that helps expedite getting those resources in place faster.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Jordan.  
  
Q    Thanks, Administrator.  The administration included $12 billion for
the — FEMA’s Disaster Relief Fund in the supplemental request sent the
Congress last week.  Given the extent of the wildfire damage, do you
amp- — anticipate asking for more, essentially, to plus-up that
request?  And — and will you submit that to Congress?  
  
ADMINISTRATOR CRISWELL:  You know, as we were monitoring the health of
the Disaster Relief Fund, what we take into account — we were
anticipating what the deficit would be later in September.  We took into
account events just like this so we could support the initial response
efforts.   
  
And so, we do have adequate funding to do the response that we’re doing
right now.  But we will need additional funding to ensure that all of
our other recovery projects can continue and not get delayed until the
next fiscal year.  
  
Q    Administrator, it’s Kelly O’Donnell from NBC.  Can you speak to the
issue of ongoing communications?  In the earliest crisis, that was a
problem and people getting information, whether it was the warning
systems or any of that.  But with towers down and difficulty, how much
is the inability to communicate with the citizens, with each other still
an ongoing part of what you’re dealing with?  And what can be done to
augment communication capabilities?  
  
ADMINISTRATOR CRISWELL:  No, I can’t speak to the initial communications
and the warning.  What we are really focused on right now is making sure
that we do have continuous communication to help people understand what
resources are available, what the next steps in the process are going to
be, and where they can go to get more information.  
  
There’s going to be plenty of time for us to go back and learn some
lessons from how the initial event unfolded.  But we really need to stay
focused right now on making sure that they have accurate information on
what res- — resources are available, to make sure that they understand
that they can register for assistance with FEMA, and that we are going
to be able to provide them some additional support throughout this
recovery process.  
  
Q    And if I could just follow up on that.  But cell towers are down;
people don’t have access to their devices.  Is there a concern that
people aren’t able to get the information simply because of the — the
extent of the devastation?  
  
ADMINISTRATOR CRISWELL:  There are some cell towers down.  But where I
was yesterday — I went into two different shelters on Saturday, another
one on Sunday, and people had communication.  They had cellphones.   
  
But we also have personnel in the shelters, and there’s multiple
shelters around the island.  And we are continuing to send people into
the shelters.  The Red Cross is there.  Our personnel are there.  And
we’re going to stand up a disaster recovery center here in the coming
days, which will be a one-stop shop that will have federal personnel,
state and local personnel, as well as the insurance industry so people
can start this process of rebuilding.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you.  Kayla Tausche, CNN.  On funding, FEMA’s own estimates
have suggested that even just part of the recovery could cost north of
$5 billion.  Where are your estimates currently?  And how much are you
communicating to Congress and the White House that you’ll need for this
recovery?  
  
ADMINISTRATOR CRISWELL:  There are a lot of reports out there right now
talking about what they think that this potential is — what the
potential cost of this disaster is going to be.  FEMA has not put out
any initial estimates.  I think that there’s a lot of other reports that
are out there.   
  
It’s really far too early to tell what the total cost is going to be. 
But as we continue to get better fidelity on the impact, as we can get
into the area and assess the true extent of the infrastructure damage,
that’s when we’ll have a better idea of what the total cost will be.   
  
But we really have to ensure right now that we are doing everything we
can to account for the missing and make sure that it’s safe for our
responders to go in there and do this additional work.   
  
Q    And as you account for the missing, as these search and rescue
efforts ramp up, do you have reason to believe that there any survivors
who aren’t currently accounted for?  
  
ADMINISTRATOR CRISWELL:  I — I needn’t speculate on that.  I mean, if
there’s — I think what we’re going to find is people that have relocated
somewhere, and they’re going to get reconnected with their family
members.  And sometimes it’s just a matter of making sure that we can
make that connection.   
  
The state has set up a family assistance center to help with that
process.  But as far as the area itself, what we’re going to be doing is
really looking for those that — that were left behind and making sure
that we have our teams in place to help find those (inaudible).  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  Way in the back.  
  
Q    Referring to reports about the activation of the warning sirens
early on, do you anticipate there will be an investigation of this?   
  
And then when we look at other cities across the country that may be
facing a similar threat due to increased vegetation dryness from climate
change, is there a preventative plan in place going forward for those
cities after seeing what has happened in Hawaii?  
  
ADMINISTRATOR CRISWELL:  I mean, I would defer you, again, to the state
on — on what they’re going to do to evaluate the response to this
situation.  As — you know, as a emergency management and first responder
community, we always want to look at the lessons learned so we can
improve.   
  
As far as the vegetation piece, there are a lot of things going on.  We
currently, as directed by Congress, have a wildfire commission that has
been meeting to provide recommendations to Congress on what we can do to
support the — building resilience within the wildland-urban interface. 
And that report is due to Congress later this year.  We think it’s going
to have some really good recommendations and suggestions on what we can
do.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  Thank you so much, Administrator.  Thank
you for all that you’re doing.  And thank you for joining us today.  
  
ADMINISTRATOR CRISWELL:  All right.  Thank you, Karine.  Have a great
day.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  Safe travels.  
  
Okay.  So, just as a reminder for those — for all residents out there to
continue listening to the state and local officials and register for
disaster assistance.  And this is a website that the Administrator just
shared with all of you, and I’ll just repeat it:
www.DisasterAssistance.gov.  Again, www.DisasterAssistance.gov.  
  
And we will — we will be in Maui, supporting the survivors of this
tragedy, as you just heard from the Administrator, as long as it takes,
providing all the resources needed for recovery.  
  
But before we go on, I have a couple more things, and then I’ll get to
your questions.  
  
As all — as all you know, on Wednesday is the first anniversary of the
President signing the Inflation Reduction Act into law.  
  
Throughout the week, the President and his administration will travel
across the country to recognize the impact of this historic law.  
  
And tomorrow, the President will travel to Wisconsin — Milwaukee,
specifically — where he will visit a clean energy manufacturing
company.  And the Vice President will travel to Seattle, Washington, and
visit a company leading in the construction of energy-efficient
buildings.  She will be joined by the Second Gentleman and also Energy
Secretary Jennifer Granholm.  
  
On Wednesday, the President will hold a celebration in the East Room,
where he will speak alongside Agriculture Secretary Vilsack, EPA
Administrator Regan, Speaker Pelosi, Leader Schumer, and many others.  
  
Also Wednesday, Senior Advisor John Podesta and Domestic Policy Advisor
Neera Tanden will join us here — here at the briefing room.  
  
These officials and others traveling throughout the week will discuss
how the Inflation Reduction Act is key to Bidenomics and building the
economy from the middle out and the bottom up.   
  
It does that in five key ways.  The Inflation Reduction Act is the
largest investment in climate action in history and puts us on a path to
reduce emission by 50 percent by 2030.  
  
Secondly, the Inflation Reduction Act invests in America, with more than
$110 billion in private sector investments in clean energy manufacturing
announced in the last year alone.  
  
The Inflation Reduction Act is lowering energy costs, with several
utility companies already announcing consumer rebates, including $400
million from Florida Power & Light.  
  
The Inflation Reduction Act is lowering healthcare costs by capping
insulin at 35 bucks for seniors, saving nearly 15 million Americans 800
bucks per year on health insurance, and allowing Medicare to negotiate
lower prescription drug prices.  
  
And lastly, the Inflation Reduction Act is making the wealthy pay more
of their fair share by cracking down on wealthy tax cheats and requiring
large corporations to pay a 15 percent minimum tax.  
  
That’s quite a lot of good done by one piece of legislation — a historic
piece of legislation — and the President and his team are excited to
bring that message to the American people throughout the week.  
  
And with that, Seung Min.  
  
Q    Okay.  Thanks, Karine.  Can you — what was — can you discuss at all
the President’s personal reaction to — as a father — of the Special
Counsel being appointed to inves- — to continue the Hunter Biden
probe?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, let me just first say — and you’ve heard me say
this before — that this case was handled independently by the Justice
Department under leadership of a Trump-appointed U.S. attorney, as you
all know.  This is consistent with what the President has been saying
for a long while now, going way back to his campaign days, that he would
restore the Department of Justice independence from political
interference from the White House.  And this is — want to make sure that
we continue that.  
  
Since the White House hasn’t been involved — just to be clear, again —
certainly, I would refer you to any — any questions about this
specifically to Department of Justice and, certainly, to Hunter Biden’s
personal representatives.  
  
I will say this — and you’ve heard this from the President — is that he
loves his son, and he is proud of him overcoming his addiction and how
he’s continuing to build his life.  But I don’t have anything else to
add to that.  
  
Q    And I wanted to follow-up on his statement on the negotiations with
the U- — involving the UAW that he issued earlier today.  And can you
discuss a little bit more why the President felt compelled to issue that
statement now?  We have a month out.  Is he concerned about the pace of
the negotiations and that the prospects of a strike are increasing?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, the President — the White House has
regularly — fairly regularly urged employee — employers and unions to
continue negotiating in good faith to reach an agreement that benefits
both sides.  And this is what, certainly, the President is doing with
this statement.  
  
He feels strongly that the transition to a clean energy economy should
provide a win-win opportunity for auto companies and also union
workers.  That is what is stated in his — certainly in the statement
that you — that you saw from the President.  Because he’s — truly
believes that.  
  
And again, it is fairly regularl- — regular that we do this — regularly
that we do this.  And so, as we have said many times, the President
believes in collective bargaining.  And that’s what we want to see
here.  
  
Go ahead, Jordan.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  Given what the Administrator said about the perils
of the President traveling to Hawaii now, does he want to travel there
eventually to survey the damage and meet survivors?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, obviously, I don’t have anything to announce at
this time.  Look, we’re going to continue to have conversations with the
Administrator — certainly, the governor in — in Hawaii, on what the
opportunities might be, what that may look like for a trip.  But right
now, we just don’t have anything to share.  
  
Q    And any plans for him to speak publicly about the death toll?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  You’ll hear from the President.  You’ve heard from him
already on Thursday.  Certainly, you’ll hear from him, you know,
continuously this week, as he’s going to be traveling tomorrow.  I just
don’t have anything to share on that.   
  
But, look, this is something that the President, clearly, is deeply
concerned about.  That is why you heard — we have the — the
Administrator Zoom in — right? — clearly from — from where she is in
Hawaii to talk directly to all of you, to take your questions.  
  
You heard from her there’s more than 300 personnel — FEMA personnel on
the ground.  There are more than a dozen federal agencies who are taking
actions, and that is including the Coast Guard, the U.S. Navy — you
heard me say that at the top — the Department of Defense.  And FEMA has
staged more than 50,000 meals, 75,000 liters of water, and thousands of
cots and blankets.  
  
And we’re going to continue to be available to them.  We’re going to
continue to do a whole-of-government response in Hawaii — in Maui,
specifically — to make sure that they have everything that they need.  
  
And, look, you’re going to continue, certainly, to hear from us on this
issue.  
  
Q    I just really quickly want to follow up on Seung Min.  What’s the
level of concern inside the White House about a potential work stoppage
at U.S. auto plants, given the, you know, tense nature of that
negotiation?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, I’m not going to get into hypotheticals from
here.  What I can say is the President believes in collective
bargaining.  That’s what he continues to encourage.  That’s what the
statement basically lays out.   
  
And we saw — we saw how that worked well — right? — with the Teamsters
and UPS.  They were able to come to the table and come to a mutual
beneficial agreement of both sides.   
  
We saw that with the West Coast ports.  We’ve seen this many times
before play out.  And that’s what the President wants to see.  That’s
what he supports.  And we — we’re just going to have to be hopeful and
be positive that they will come to an agreement.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you.  The President told donors that China is a “ticking time
bomb” and that China’s growth rate is about 2 percent.  China estimates
their growth is higher than that.  Where did the President come up with
that number?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, as you know, the President speaks very candidly
— and he’ll continue to do so — about the PRC and our legitimate
differences and disagreements.   The President has been — has not shied
away from that in the last two years.  It should come as no surprise
that sometimes he will have taugh- — tough — tough things to say about
each other.  Right?  And we certainly are not alone in that — in those —
in those comments.   
  
So the President believes that diplomacy, including the recent
high-level engagements undertaken by U.S. officials over the past few
months, is the responsible way to manage our competition.  Diplomacy is
the way that he believes is the best way to lead forward, especially as
we’re talking about our foreign policy, our national security.   
  
And so that’s what the President’s going to continue to do.  But
obviously, he’s never shy — he’s never shied away on sharing his
comments candidly.  
  
Q    Secondly, a top Israeli official, Ron Dermer, is visiting
Washington this week.  What’s the status of these talks between Israel,
Saudi, and the United States aimed at a normalization deal?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So this is part of a broad — you know, a broad
spectrum of — well, they’re going to have — talk about a broad spectrum
of issues.  But this is part of a regular routine engagement.  Nothing
new here.   
  
As we’ve said in recent readouts of engagements with all — with our
Israeli partners, we agreed to continue to work together on several
issues and stay in regular contact.  And this is certainly part of —
part of that conversation — part of the agreement that has come — that
both sides have come to agree on.  
  
Go ahead, Mary.  
  
Q    Following up on the special counsel.  You’ve said the President
wasn’t in business with his son.  But now that this investigation is in
the hands of a special counsel, which does have some more sweeping
authority, just to be clear, can you say with certainty that David Weiss
isn’t going to unearth any connections between the President and his
son’s business dealings?   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, I’m going to continue saying what I have said
before: The President was not in business with his son.  That still
stands.   
  
And just don’t have anything else to add.  I’ve been very clear about
that.  The President has been very clear about that.   
  
Anything else specific to this case, I would have to refer you to
Department of Justice.  
  
Q    Can you say at all — it certainly seems that you all thought this
was behind you a couple of weeks ago.  You know, now the President’s son
is facing a poss- — a possible criminal indictment right in the middle
of an election.  Does — is the President frustrated that this plea deal
has fallen apart?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So here’s what I can say about — about all the ques- —
the both questions that you just asked me: Look, so, if you think about
what Republicans in Congress have tried to do for years — right? — they
have been making claims and — of — and allegations — right? — about
President on this front over and over again.  And month after month,
year after year, they have been — they have been investigating every
single angle of this and looking at — and looking at — for any evidence
to back their allegations.  That’s what have –they’ve been done for
years, for months, and we’ve seen it over the past several weeks.   
  
And what’s been the result of that if you ask yourself what we have seen
from that?  They keep turning up documents and witnesses showing that
the President wasn’t involved, never discussed these business dealings,
and did nothing wrong.  There’s been zero evidence showing — showing
otherwise.  And so that’s what we have seen over the past several
months.  That’s what we have seen over the past several years.  So I’ll
leave it at that.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you, Karine.  There’s been a — plenty of criticism over
Weiss’s appointment as special counsel from the folks who criticized the
deal — plea deal he pushed through that was later rejected.  But now,
the attorney for Hunter Biden also suggested that if Special Counsel
Weiss brings any more charges than have already been brought, it would
be because something other than the facts and the law have come into
play, suggesting that he could potentially buckle to political
pressure.   
  
So, you’ve had criticism coming from a lot of different areas over
Weiss.  How can the White House assure people that the case involving
the President’s son is being handled fairly?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Anything that has been stated or said by Hunter’s
representative, I would have to refer you to his representatives.  That
is not something that I will respond to.  
  
What I can say — and I’ve said it at the top when I was first asked this
question — is that the Department of Justice is independent.  That is
what the President believes.  He believes that this White House will not
politicize the Department of Justice.   
  
This was done under the leadership of a Trump-appointed U.S. attorney,
as you all know.  And so I’m just — I’m not going to add anything else
to that.  
  
Q    Will the White House support Weiss going before Congress to answer
questions for the sake of transparency?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  That is up to the Department of Justice.  
  
Q    Okay.  And then on Iran, former Vice President Mike Pence said that
the unfreezing of those assets would amount to the largest ransom
payment in American history.   
  
And then you also had the Israeli Prime Minister, Netanyahu, saying
“arrangements that do not dismantle Iran’s nuclear infrastructure will
not stop its nuclear program.  It will only provide it with funds that
will go to terrorist elements sponsored by Iran.”   
  
So most, if not all, Americans support bringing home hostages.  But is
the administration not also concerned that at the same time it’s talking
about giving Iran $6 billion, they’re considering putting, you know,
Marines on commercial vessels to bolster security against this state?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So a couple things.  You asked me two questions.  So
I’ll take the — the first one.  So I want to be clear that — that the
negotiations for the release and return of the United States are ongoing
— to the United States of these five individuals.  They are ongoing.   
  
Just to be even more clear, what is being discussed isn’t a payment of
any kind.  These aren’t U.S. dollars.  They aren’t even taxpayer
dollars.  What’s being pursued here is an arrangement for — and the
Iranian people can — with the oversight of the U.S. Treasury Department,
Qatar, and at — and aid organizations — avail themselves of Iranian
funds that have been held in a South Korean account since 2018.   
  
This money that — this is the money that the previous administration
allowed Iran to make and keep in a special accounts.  They let Iran —
Iran spend billions of dollars of it and got nothing in return.   
  
So the only thing we’ve discussed with Iran is a process through which
these funds could be assessed for humanitarian purposes.  We have fully
visible — we have fully visibility about where the money was going and
for what purpose.  We are discussing a good deal here.  We’d still limit
— we — still limiting how they can use their own money through this
deal.   
  
The Iranian people, with whom we have no quarrel with, must just get a
break from the oppression and the hunger and the poverty the regime in
Tehran has inflicted upon them.  So that’s — want to make sure that’s
really clear.  
  
As it relates to a nuclear deal, this positive step is not linked to any
other issue.  This is not about anything else.  And we have not changed
any aspect of our overall appro- –approach as it relates to Iran, which
continues to be focused on deterrence, pressure, and diplomacy.  As I
said early, the diplomacy is a really important part of how the
President likes to move forward when it comes to foreign policy.   
  
And this is about bringing home these U.S. citizens, reuniting them with
their loved ones.  That’s what this is about — nothing else.  
  
Q    Does this at all harm U.S.-Israel relationship at this very
critical time now?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, this is about bringing home U.S. citizens,
bringing them home to their families.  That’s what this is about.  It’s
not about anything else.  And we’ve been very clear about that.  And
we’re going to make sure we do everything that we can to get these U.S.
citizens who were wrongfully detained — let’s not forget that —
wrongfully detained back home to their families, and that’s the
President’s priority.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Karine, thanks.  Two questions about the border.  Congressman
Castro said that — was calling on the White House to end all cooperation
between Customs and Border Patrol and the Texas Department of Public
Safety until after the Justice Department’s lawsuit is concluded against
the state.  Does the White House have any response to that?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have a response to that.  I just know that the
— as you know, the Department of Justice is dealing with the legal
aspect of this.  I don’t have any response to — to the —  to the to the
congressman.   
  
Q    And then, also, if there is any comment on a three-year-old child —
migrant child — died while traveling on a bus chartered by Governor Greg
Abbott that was going from Brownsville to Chicago.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, that’s — certainly, any — a loss of any child is
devastating and heartbreaking.  So, certainly, our condolences goes out
to the child’s family.  That is horrific news and horrific to hear
that.   
  
You know, I do have to say, you know, Governor Abbott has an opportunity
to work with us on this, on an issue that certainly is — is an important
one for the American people — when you think about the border, when you
think about dealing with a broken system.   
  
But what he continues to do is continues to move forward in a dangerous
and un- — and taking unlawful actions.  And it is undermining what we’re
trying to do, what the President is trying to do — trying to deal with a
— with a broken system in a humane way, trying to do it in a way that is
effective.  And we have seen his border plan management be effective.   
  
And it is unfort- — -fortunate that he continues to do this.  And it
doesn’t just put, sadly, young migrants at risk or migrants at risk, but
it also puts at risk the Border Patrol who are trying to do their job. 
And he gets in the way of that every day.   
  
And so, I am very sad to hear about the death of this three-year-old,
certainly.  And our hearts go out to — to his family.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Has the President been given any advice that he should not speak
about Hawaii at this point?  Because when he spoke the other day, he
added that to planned remarks.  The death toll has now roughly tripled. 
It’s now the worst in history.   
  
He had an opportunity — he could have stopped by to see us when he
arrived back.  Do you expect that he will have any kind of standalone
comments about the new level of loss and devastation?   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I — I could — you could expect to hear from the
President on this issue.  Clearly, it is something that is deeply
concerning to him when it comes to the fi- — the wildfires that we have
seen in Maui.   
  
That’s why we, again, had the Administrator here.  That’s why she was on
TV the last couple of days, talking — being on the ground, she can speak
directly to this — right? — being on the ground —   
  
Q    I’m asking about the President’s voice in this.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, I — I — no, I just said you’ll — you’ll hear from
the President on this.  I don’t have anything to announce at this time. 
But certainly, this is — he’s the president.  Right?  You’re going to
hear from him.  You heard from him on Thursday.  And then you’ve heard
from — you heard from the Administrator for the past several days.   
  
And so, what the President wants to make sure is that — is that Maui and
— has — the government of Hawaii has everything that they need to
support the people on the ground.  It’s been a devastating devastation,
as we have seen.  You’ve just mentioned the loss of life.   
  
You just heard from the Administrator, who has said that she has been on
the ground for two whole days.  And they — we have been there since day
one.   
  
You’ve — you heard that there is 300 personnel on the ground.  So, this
is something that the President takes very seriously.  And you’ve heard
from — from the governor of Hawaii, saying how he appreciates the
efforts and what we’ve been able to do from the federal government.   
  
Of course, you’re going to hear from the President.  Don’t have anything
to share at this time.  But let’s not forget: We did hear from him on
Thursday — right? — when he was in Utah ahead of talking about the PACT
Act, which is, as you know, something — it was a year anniversary — an
issue that is incredibly important to many Americans.  And he took that
time to — to speak to it.   
  
So, I’m sure you’ll be hearing from the President.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Aside from the statement from the President, has President Biden
spoken to any family members of wildfire victims or plans to in the
future?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have any calls to — to — to speak to at this
time.  But I can say that, as you know, he’s been in — he’s heard from
the governor a couple of times.  He’s been updated by the Administrator
a couple of times over the past couple of days.  And he is staying in
close communication and close touch with — with the Administrator.  And
also, his team is regularly updating him on what is occurring.   
  
Q    And secondly, a number of Democrats and progressives have called
for this moment to be labeled a climate emergency.  Has the President
considered that — that justification of that label for this instance?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, a couple of things: I know we’ve had — he’s been
asked this question a couple of times.  I’ve been asked the question a
couple of times.  This is a president has — who has taken the climate
crisis very seriously.   
  
He has called it an emergency since day one, saying that it is climate —
climate change is one of the four crisis that he — crises that we had to
deal with coming in — he had to deal with coming into the
administration.  And he sees it as an existential threat of our time.   
  
And for — for that reason, what he did automatically was declare climate
as a basis for emergency action under the Defense Production Act.  Let’s
not forget what that does.  It set aside $500 million from DPA to
jumpstart heat pump manufacturing and build out our electric grid.  It
deployed tens of millions more — from DPA — to stand up solar
manufacturing and source critical materials for EVs — electric vehicles
— and used the DPA to restart a factory to produce equipment to fight
wildfires made worse by climate change.   
  
So, this is something that the President has taken very seriously.  And
if you look at — if you think about the Inflation Reduction Act — as you
hear me speak to many times — you heard — or hear it’s — we’re about to
celebrate the one-year anniversary of that, which has — which has given
— which has given the most investment in dealing with climate change
than any other piece of legislation.   
  
And, you know, what Republicans in Congress are trying to do — they’re
trying to take that away.  They’re trying to repeal IRA.  And that is a
problem.   
  
And so, while we’re trying to deal with this existential threat, this
climate change crisis, the President is doing everything that he can to
make sure that we are dealing with this with an — with a — in a way — in
a way that actually leads to results.  And that’s what the President is
going to continue to do.   
  
Go ahead.   
  
Q    Hi.  On — on Hawaii, has the President been — (a cellphone rings) —
briefed specifically on the issue surrounding the local response, such
as the fact that the alarm didn’t go off?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m sorry, the — the music distracted me.   
  
Q    Yeah.  And that’s fine.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m sorry.   
  
Q    So, has the President been briefed specifically on the issues
surrounding the local response, such as the fact that the alarm didn’t
go off, or the fact that some people are saying now that there wasn’t a
clear evacuation plan?   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, I know that there is an investigation going
on on that particular question that you’re asking me, so I’m not going
to get ahead of that.   
  
(A cellphone rings.)  
  
You got — you got control of that, my friend?   
  
Q    I’m — I’m going to turn it off.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  All right.  There’s only a briefing happening
right now.   
  
Q    It’s off.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.   
  
And so, there is going to be investigation done on that.  I’m not going
to get ahead of that.  So, certainly would refer you to the state
officials.   
  
We are — what we’re focused on — and we’ve been — I’ve been very clear,
the Administrator has been very clear on providing residents of Hawaii
with all of the support and resources that they need at this time.   
  
And so, that’s going to be our focus.  And we’ll let the investigation —
the local government deal with the investigation.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    To the back?  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  NPR has obtained a trove of inspection reports
regarding these ICE detention facilities –privately — privately
controlled ICE detention facilities.  And some of these documents show
that there were egregious behaviors going on, negligent care.  I knew
during the 2020 presidential campaign, Biden committed to ending these
for-profit ICE detention facilities.  That has not happened so far.   
  
Can you explain why the administration still is relying on them?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I have not seen the report.  That’s something that
I would want to talk to our team about before responding to your
particular report.   
  
You know, I think the President is still committed to that — to what he
— what he laid out during his campaign.  Just don’t have anything here
to share beyond that, beyond his commitment that he is certainly going
to foc- — going to continue to stay focused on — but I just don’t have
anything specific on where we are with that particular —  
  
Q    Can I ask you one quick —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — particular ICE detention closure.   
  
Q    I’m sorry — one quick follow-up there.  My understanding is that
the ACLU has said that under President Biden, a larger percentage of ICE
detainees are in these privately run facilities when compared to the
Trump administration.  And I just want to understand how that is
possible, kind of, with the commitment that you all have had — expressed
to moving away from detention facilities.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, look, let me first say that, you know, we’ve
been very clear.  We want — this is a broken system that we have done
everything that we can to make sure we move forward in a humane way. 
Right?  That is something that we have been committed to and that is a
path that we certainly have gone down.  
  
As it relates to the ICE detention, the private detention, again, I
would have to go back to the team and see where we are with that.  I
have not seen the — this investigative reporting that you all have
done.   
  
But I want to make sure I answer it in a fulsome way.  So, I need to
just make sure I check in with the team, and we’ll get back to you on
that.  All the — all the questions that you have I’m sure the team will
get — we’ll get back to you on that.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  And welcome — welcome to your — to the briefing room
—  
  
Q    Thank you.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE: — in your new role.  
  
Q    Thank you.  I appreciate it, Karine.  
  
You mentioned earlier the fact that David Weiss, as U.S. attorney, was
appointed by former President Trump.  That has been a fact that many
Democrats, many allies of the White House have used to defend the plea
deal that was previously in place, as well as the five-year timeframe
that this investigation had been — had been taking.   
  
And so, I’m wondering, you know, if the President believes that
appointing a special counsel or transitioning Weiss to special counsel
bolsters the independence of that investigation.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  That is something I’m just not going to speak to.  We
believe in the independence of the Department of Justice.  I’m just not
going to speak to that from here.  
  
Q    And on Hawaii, how does the White House respond to critics who have
suggested that the President should not have been vacationing at the
beach over the weekend as the Maui crisis became the worst wildfire in a
century?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, a couple of things.  And I’ve said this multiple
times: The President is certainly deeply concerned about — about the
people in Maui to the — to the point where he has mobilized a
whole-of-government approach here, as he d- — he has done many times, to
deal with these wildfires in Hawaii.   
  
From the beginning, we — you’ve heard directly from the Administrator:
From day one, FEMA has been on the ground dealing with this.  There’s
more than 300 personnel — FEMA personnel.  We’ve talked about the 50,000
meals.  We’ve talked about 75,000 liters of water, the thousands of cots
that are out there and blankets.  And this is — there is more than a
dozen — a dozen federal agencies who are — who are dealing with this
issue right now that — that we’re currently seeing in Maui.  
  
And it is a devastating sight.  And the President and the First Lady has
been very clear about offering, certainly, their condolences and making
sure that we continue this whole-of-government approach.  That is not
going to stop.  The President has also committed to being there for the
government of Hawaii, the people of Maui for as long as it takes.  And
sadly, we have seen this before.   
  
And so, look, you heard yesterday he received two updates from the FEMA
Administrator Criswell, who was on — as she’s on the ground, as you just
heard.   
  
As the governor — Governor Green stressed yesterday, as well: Within six
hours of receiving Hawaii’s requests, President Biden signed a major
disaster declaration and ordered all available federal resources in the
state to help with the response.  And Governor Green described this as
having provided amazing support for recovery because the President was
able to do that within those six hours.  
  
Senator Hirono, who I said the President spoke to just last night —
<s>he</s> \[she\] thanked the President for the immediate support
federal agencies have delivered for residents of Hawaii.  And so does —
has — so has Senator Shortz — Sha- — Shartz — Schatz.  
  
And so, look, you’ve heard from the President.  I’m going to quote him
from what he said on Thursday, which is I’ve — he’s directed — he’s
directed what we surge — what we surge support of these brave — brave
firefighters and first responders and emergency personnel working around
the clock.  He said, “I’m going to make sure the state has everything it
needs from the federal government to recover,” because the President is
deeply concerned and is going to continue to be there for the people of
Maui, the government of Hawaii for as long as it takes.  And that is his
commitment.  
  
Q    So, should the pe- — should the American people be seeing the
President on the phone, working the phones, talking to officials, rather
than seeing him on the beach?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  The pr- — you all have gotten pool reports on who the
President has connected with.  You all have heard from us when the
President has talked to the governor, when the President — you heard
from me when — about talking to the senator.  You heard directly from
the Administrator.   
  
You know, and you’ve heard from the governor and the senators on the
ground, saying how much they appreciated the work of the federal
government, the work from this President.  And I think that matters.  I
think that matters that the folks who are on the ground, the elected
officials, are saying that they’re receiving the help that they need to
deal with this devastating issue.   
  
And that’s what you’re going to continue to hear from this
administration.  And that’s what you’re going to continue to see.   
  
Again, the Administrator was there for two whole days — two whole days
on the ground, by the President’s request, to make sure that the
government has what they have — the local government has what they have,
the people of Maui have what they have.  And that’s what you’re going to
see.  
  
When you talk about a dozen agencies on the ground, helping and
assisting more than si- — more than — hundreds of FEMA — FEMA personnel,
that’s what matters.  That’s what matters for — to make sure that
they’re actually seeing on the ground the people who know how to work
this, who know how to deal with these type of devastating events, who
can be helpful to them on the ground doing just that — by the request of
this President.  
  
MS. DALTON:  We have time for one more.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.  
  
Q    On the supplemental that was sent to Congress: On the Ukraine
portion, I’m curious if you can detail any conversations maybe that have
already been going on with the Hill about the — the swiftness of that
process and, secondly, if there’s any concern from the President or the
administration about what has been, up to this point, pretty broad
bipartisan support for Ukraine aid starting to slip.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, we — look, we are grateful for the par- —
bipartisan support that we have seen on Ukraine since Russia’s
unprovoked war.  We are grateful for it.  It’s been a full-scale
invasion, as you know, from Russia.  We are confident that that support
is going to continue as we work together to make sure that the Ukrainian
people have everything that they need to continue to fight bravely for
their freedom.  That is what we’re hoping to continue to see.  And — and
we believe that we will continue to have that.  
  
As it relates to our engagement with Congress, senior administrator
officials — including the OMB Director, Shalanda Young, and our
Legislative Affairs shop — have had numerous — numerous conversation,
numerous calls with lawmakers on the ground with both parties to explain
exactly the need and the highlight f- — and highlight the emergency
nature of this request.  So, we’ve been having those regular
conversations.   
  
We’re continuing to engage with members of Congress.  That’s something
that we have done, that we do pretty regularly and — to underscore the
importance of this — of delivering these bipartisan — remember, this has
been — done in a bipartisan way.  And we believe that this will continue
in a bipartisan way.   
  
Remember, these are — the Ukrainian people are — are fighting for their
democracy.  They’re fighting for their freedom.  And we — we believe
that it is important that we continue to support them in — let’s not
forget — this — the — Russia’s unprovoked war — full-out — full-out war
on the Ukrainian people.  
  
With that, we’ll see you on Wednesday here in the briefing room. 
Thanks, everybody.  
  
Q    Thank you.  
  
2:56 P.M. EDT

  
  
  
