---
date: '2023-08-10'
published_time: 2023-08-10 05:41:17-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2023/08/10/background-press-call-by-senior-administration-officials-previewing-executive-order-on-addressing-u-s-investments-in-certain-national-security-technologies-and-products-in-countries-of-concern/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Background Press Call by Senior Administration Officials Previewing Executive\
  \ Order on Addressing U.S. Investments in Certain National Security Technologies\
  \ and Products in Countries of\_Concern"
---
 
2:09 P.M. EDT  
  
MODERATOR:  Thanks, everyone, for joining this call to discuss the
executive order to narrowly regulate certain U.S. investments into the
PRC in three technologies critical national security.   
  
For your information, this call on background, attributable to “senior
administration officials,” and is embargoed until 4:00 p.m. Eastern
today, Wednesday, August 9th.  
  
For your awareness, not for your reporting, on the call today we have
\[senior administration official\], \[senior administration official\],
\[senior administration official\].  We also have other representatives
from Treasury, Commerce, and State on the line for Q&A.  
  
Our speakers will have a few brief words at the top, and then we’ll turn
it over to Q&A.   
  
With that, \[senior administration official\], I’ll turn it over to you
to kick us off.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks, \[moderator\], and good
afternoon, everyone.  Thanks for joining.  
  
The Biden administration is committed to keeping America safe and
defending America’s national security.  That includes appropriately
protecting technologies that are critical to the next generation of
military innovation.  
  
As many of you know, we’ve been working on an approach to address
certain outbound investments in sensitive technologies in critical
sectors that could undermine America’s national security.  
  
For example, the PRC has a stated goal to acquire and produce key
sensitive technologies that directly support the PRC’s military
modernization and related activities, such as weapons development, and
has exploited U.S. investments to develop domestic military and
intelligence capabilities.  
  
Today, President Biden is expected to sign an executive order that
authorizes the Secretary of the Treasury to regulate certain U.S.
investments into PRC entities engaged in activities involving national
security sensitive technologies in three sectors: semiconductors and
microelectronics, quantum information technologies, and certain
artificial intelligence systems.  
  
This program will complement our existing export control and inbound
investment screening tools with a “small yard, high fence” approach to
address the national security threat posed by countries of concern
advancing such sensitive technologies.  
  
At the same time, it’s important to recognize this is a national
security action, not an economic one.  We recognize that cross-border
investment flows have long contributed to U.S. economic vitality.  This
executive order protects our national security interests in a narrowly
targeted manner while maintaining our longstanding commitment to open
investment.  
  
Along with the executive order, the Treasury Department will
simultaneously release an Advanced Notice of Proposed Rulemaking, with
proposed definitions to elaborate the scope of the program, which will
be subject to public notice and comment.   
  
The program will prohibit certain investments in entities that engage in
specific activities related to these technology areas that pose the most
acute national security risks, and will require notification for other
sensitive investments.   
  
President Biden is signing this executive order after a thoughtful,
deliberate assessment, which included extensive consultations with
allies and partners, with Congress, with industry and other
stakeholders.  
  
The White House, Treasury, and Commerce used that feedback and expertise
to help design our carefully tailored approach.  And we’ll continue to
listen to that feedback in the notice-and-comment period ahead.  
  
We also commend Senators Casey and Cornyn, and Representatives DeLauro,
Fitzpatrick, and Pascrell, in particular, for their continued leadership
on this issue through the National Critical Capabilities Defense Act.  
  
The overwhelmingly bipartisan vote on the Senators Casey and Cornyn
Outbound Investment Transparency Act, as an amendment to the Senate
NDAA, shows the shared will of Congress and the administration to
meaningfully regulate outbound investments.   
  
In the coming weeks and months, we look forward to working to align our
approaches in developing an outbound regime that best advances our
national security.   
  
Additionally, key allies and partners have recognized the shared
importance of this issue, and some are seeking to align our approaches
together to maximize the effectiveness of our efforts collectively.  
  
For example, this past May, G7 leaders in Hiroshima underscored our
common interest in appropriately protecting sensitive technologies with
national security implications and made clear that outbound investment
controls can be an important complement to export controls and inbound
investment screening.  
  
And some allies — like the European Commission, United Kingdom, and
Germany — have announced that they will explore developing their own
similar programs.  
  
As I just outlined, we’ve already had dozens of engagements with
hundreds of stakeholders, industry members, and allies and partners
around the world.  We are expecting much more engagement as part of the
notice-and-comment period to solicit additional public feedback to make
any needed adjustments before the rule goes into final effect.  
  
Again, I want to be clear: This is a national security action, not an
economic one.  We recognize the important role that cross-border
investment flows play in U.S. economic vitality.  And this executive
order is aimed at narrowly protecting our national security interests
while maintaining that longstanding commitment to open investment.   
  
And our approach remains the same.  As we have repeatedly said, we are
pursuing a policy of de-risking with respect to the PRC through taking
targeted national security actions, not decoupling our economies, and
this policy reflects that approach.  
  
We’ve worked to be as transparent as possible through this process, and
you’ve heard a lot of this before.  Many of you have reported on it, so
there really shouldn’t be any surprises at this stage.  
  
I’ll now turn it over to my colleague, \[senior administration
official\], to provide more details on the program.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thank you, \[senior administration
official\].  And thanks to all of you for joining us.  
  
Today, the Treasury Department will release an advanced notice of
proposed rulemaking that will provide additional information related to
the President’s executive order.   
  
The ANPRM also sets out a number of questions that are asking
stakeholders to address in order to help us shape the implementation of
these rules.  This is the first step in the process.  And I want to
emphasize that: that the program will come into force at the end of the
rulemaking process once we’ve had a chance to incorporate feedback from
stakeholders.  
  
As many of you know, the Treasury Department has a great deal of
experience with complex implementation challenges.  We’re currently
working to modernize our sanctions regime, stand up a beneficial
ownership system, modernize the IRS, implement the tax revisions through
the CHIPS and Science Act, as well as many of the climate provisions of
the Inflation Reduction Act.  
  
We’re taking important lessons from the — these projects to influence
the way we implement this executive order.  The most important
implementation lesson we’ve learned over the last two years is seek
input from stakeholders early and often.   
  
This is why before promulgating rules to implement the executive order,
we’re putting out a set of formal questions to stakeholders: the
advanced notice of proposed rulemaking.  We want to make sure we’re
considering the full range of inputs as we develop the details of the
implementation of this regulation.  
  
The ANPRM provides a further information, of course, on our current
thinking on the key elements of the program, including definitions,
technical details on technologies and products, scope, structure, and
enforcement.  
  
Another important lesson we have learned is that our policies are the
most effective when we act together with our allies and partners. 
Throughout the process, we will continue to coordinate closely with our
allies and partners to advance our shared goals and our collective
security.  
  
We think the joint G7 economic resilience and security statement in May
was an important step in demonstrating our unity of purpose with some of
our a- — close allies, and we’re encouraged by the statements made by
United Kingdom and also the EU on the importance of addressing outbound
investment.  So, now we look forward to talking with them about the
details of President’s EO and also soliciting their input as part of the
ANPRM process.  
  
In order to implement the President’s direction, the Secretary plans to
promulgate rules that accomplish two primary goals:  First, requirements
of the U.S. persons to notify the Treasury of certain transactions.  And
second, a prohibition on U.S. persons undertaking certain other
transactions.  
  
In both cases, we intend to apply the requirements to investments in any
entity of a country of concern that is engaged in activities in a narrow
subset of three advanced technology areas that have a national security
nexus.  We’re focused on the types of investments that can confirm
tangible benefits along with capital, such as private equity and venture
capital investments, joint ventures, and greenfield investments, among
others.  
  
These are the types of investments provide countries of concerns with
edge in sensitive technologies.  We are not seeking to cover passive
investments, nor other transactions that are less likely to benefit an
entity seeking to advance in these advanced technology areas.  
  
For example, we’re contemplating an exemption for investments into
publicly traded securities.  
  
We expect U.S. persons to be responsible for adhering to the prohibition
and the notification requirements wherever they are located.  The
Secretary will have the authority to investigate, as appropriate,
violation to the EO and accompany regulations and pursue available
penalties for such violations.  
  
Moving forward, our next step will be to develop draft regulations that
will be informed by the comments we receive from the advanced notice of
proposed rulemaking.  We’re eager for feedback from interested
stakeholders to ensure the proper definition, scope, and structures of
our rules are put in place.  
  
The final important lesson that we have learned from the process of
implementing a number of key priorities for the President over the last
two and a half years is about the importance of working in concert with
our partners throughout the federal government.   
  
No bigger partner has been the Department of Commerce, with whom we’re
working on a number of these implementation projects.  And we’ve worked
very closely with them and a number of other agencies in shaping the
advanced notice of proposed rulemaking.  
  
That’s why I’m happy to hand the floor over to my colleague and friend,
\[senior administration official\].  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Good afternoon, everyone.  I couldn’t
be more pleased to be on this call with — with my friends and partners,
\[senior administration official\] and \[senior administration
official\].  
  
As was mentioned, the outbound investment program will fill a critical
gap in the United States’ national security toolkit.  
  
What we’re talking about is a narrow and thoughtful approach as we seek
to prevent the PRC from obtaining and using the most advanced
technologies through military modernization and undermining U.S.
national security.  
  
This program, as both of my colleagues mentioned, is narrowly targeted
to ensure that U.S. capital does not support indigenous foreign
development of emerging and critical technologies with national security
risks.   
  
The outbound investment mission is aligned with the mission of our
export controls.  Just as a reminder, Commerce employs controls on
exports of sensitive goods, software, and technology to ensure that our
products are not used by bad actors and for end uses of national
security concern.  But our export controls don’t cover investments
abroad that can help foreign adversaries or countries of concern to fuel
indigenous development of national security technologies.   
  
By adding outbound investment screening to our suite of national
security tools, we are enhancing U.S. capabilities to safeguard our
national security.  
  
Specifically, the program would potentially prohibit investment in
entities that engage in certain activities related to the development of
advanced semiconductors, quantum information technologies, or AI systems
that are specific- — specifically designed for military or intelligence
end-uses.  And it would potentially require notification for investments
in entities engaged in the development of less-advanced semiconductors
or AI systems designed for certain dual-use capabilities that pose
national security risks.   
  
The program will curb certain investments of capital along with — this
is important — the intangible benefits that go along with those
investments.  For instance, enhanced standing in prominence, managerial
assistance, investment in telenetworks, access to potential suppliers
and customers, and enhanced access to additional financing.   
  
I do want to pause and underscore what was mentioned earlier.  This is
an — this is absolutely a bipartisan approach.  Senators Casey and
Cornyn’s Outbound Investment bill, for example, was successfully added
to the Senate NDAA bill with the support of 91 senators.  That says more
than just something — it says a lot.   
  
We will ensure that the outbound investment program is implemented in a
way that’s consistent with other technology measures; that it’s
strategic, targeted, transparent, and effective with a view to solve the
specific national security problem at issue.   
  
With that in mind, Commerce has played and will continue to play a
critical role in scoping and defining these technologies covered by the
program and leverage our sectoral and supply chain expertise to make
sense of the information on transactions we — we receive through the
program.   
  
Our work to date has been informed by robust and sustained engagement
with industry.  We have received input on a wide range of topics,
including the scope of the program, international engagement, and
liability and enforcement.  
  
In fact — and this is important — in recent months, the Department of
Commerce, joined by our Treasury colleagues, conduct consultations with
over 175 industry stakeholders leading up to the President’s
determination to issue this executive order.   
  
As \[senior administration official\] mentioned, we look forward to
continued engagement during the rulemaking period, and we strongly
encourage industry and other stakeholders to participate in the process
to help us fine-tune the details of the program.  The technologies
covered in this program are complex, and we need industry to help — to
get this right for our national security.  
  
Thank you.  And I’ll turn it back over to \[senior administration
official\].  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thank you.  Moderator, if you could
please remind our listeners here how to queue up for questions.  
  
Q    Hi, thanks for taking questions.  I guess two things: can — on the
— on the penalties for violating these rules or requirements, I guess,
can you talk a little bit about what those could look like?  It sounds
like there has been some discussion of the possibility of criminal
penalties applying to people who violate these rules or firms that
violate these rules.  Could you explain, you know in what circumstances
there may be a criminal element to this?  
  
And then, just more broadly, I’m curious with this rulemaking how
significantly this could evolve during the rulemaking process.  I mean,
could this — could you add additional technologies to — to the outbound
investment order?  Could there be additional types of investment,
whether that’s portfolio investment or — or passive investment?  I mean,
how — how significantly — significantly do you anticipate this changing
in the rulemaking process?  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Okay.  Two good questions, Andy.  I
think you — it would be jumping the gun significantly to think about
criminal penalties here because the Secretary will have all the powers
and authorities under IEEPA, which include unwinding these investments
going forward.   
  
And we’ll spell this out in more detail, but the goal here really is to
make sure that we provide industry with clarity so that they recognize
what is permissible, which is a great deal of investment, and what isn’t
permissible, which is going to be a narrow scope of investment.  
  
And in addition to the guidance we’ll provide ultimately, part of what
we’re going to do here at Treasury is make sure that we have available
experts who will be able to give guidance to industry as they’re
thinking through this.   
  
So, our view is that we’ll — we’ll, of course, need to speak to this in
more detail as we go through the rulemaking, but she’ll have all of the
authorities that we have under a national IEEPA program, including the
ability to unwind investments that are made going forward, which is — we
think will be unlikely, in light of the fact that members of industry
are going to have a great deal of incentives in terms of taking these
seriously and making sure that they limit their investments to things
that are permissible.  
  
I think the thing that gives us the hope of making sure we’re capturing
things that may be close to the line is going to be the fact that for
two of these ar- — for these areas, we’re also going to have the general
obligations for industry to provide us with information about a broader
set of investments that are being made.  
  
In terms of changes during the rulemaking, I have no expectation that
we’re going to add additional areas during the rulemaking.  The goal
here is to — the goal here — and you’ll see this when you take a look at
the Advanced Notice of Proposed Rulemaking — is to provide as much
clarity as is possible to stakeholders in order to both allow them to
start thinking about they think through their businesses in light of the
President’s executive order, but also to collect information on a set of
questions that are very specific that will help us be in a position to
design the rulemaking.  The rulemaking in and of itself will be
consistent with the EO, which is fundamentally the document that’s going
to gu- — will guide our activity here.   
  
And you’ve seen us do these types of rulemakings in the past, following
the executive orders.  And our goal is largely to be in a place where we
take the information we garner from stakeholders to answer the open
questions, but to further provide — in order to provide clarity, not
look at expanding the aperture of what we’re covering.  
  
Q    Hi, everyone.  And thanks for doing this call.  I got, I guess, two
for you here.  One is just: Can you give us any more information on the
distinction between investments in each sector that will be prohibited
and which will just require notification?  And if you cannot, can you
give us some little idea about how you will make that determination?   
  
And then I’m wondering about your engagement with allies and adversaries
on this rule recently.  Did Secretary Yellen preview this when she went
to China?   
  
Do you have any expectation of what the Chinese response will be?   
  
And do you think that our allies are getting ready to follow suit here? 
I know they’ve been considering it, but have they given you — given you
any indication that they might move in the near future here?  So, thanks
— thanks for that.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Well, I said two questions.  That was
at least five.  Let me —  
  
Q    Okay.  Got it.  Got it.   
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Let me try and get through a few of
them, but I’m guessing that \[senior administration official\] will want
to come in on some of our engagement with allies and partners as well.  
  
I think you’re going to see a bunch of the details in terms of how we
define these areas, in both the executive order, but in more detail on
the advanced notice of proposed rulemaking.  So, as you look at those
documents, it will give you that information.  
  
Our goal is to — is our goal — and one of the things I want to thank the
experts that have worked closely with us on — is to make sure that we
provide clarity with regard to what we mean by artificial intelligence. 
What do we mean by advanced semiconductors?  What do we mean by quantum
computing?  There’s a great deal of detail both in the executive order
and also in the advanced notice of proposed rulemaking on these
definitions.  
  
So I would direct you to look at that.  And then if you — after you’ve
looked at that, you have follow-up questions, I’m sure that my
colleagues would be happy to address those.  
  
In terms of our work with allies and partners, the Secretary and all
members of the Cabinet have spoken to allies, partners, and others about
what we’re doing with regard to the President’s executive order,
extensively.  She’s also done it publicly, as each one of you have
reported on, and she shared that information also with her Chinese
counterparts, in terms of what we’re — what our aim is here, in order to
make very clear to them that our goal is to make sure that we protect
our national security, that — and it’s consistent with the speech that
she’s given.   
  
So we have had conversations very directly with our counterparts, both
amongst the G7 but also the Chinese, and also a number of other allies
and partners who have cared deeply about what we’ve done here.   
  
And part of the reason we’ve done the advanced notice of proposed
rulemaking, as I said in my remarks, was that we’ve had very good
conversations with the G7 and with a number of our allies.  But
fundamentally, your first question is a question that each one of them
also wants to ask, which is: We want to understand the details.  And by
putting out the advance notice of proposed rulemaking, now we can have
conversations about the details as to how we act going forward together
in a way that will best protect our shared national security.  
  
So, our expectation is that over time we’ll see them also work through
their processes.  I think that earlier this summer or late in the
spring, our counterparts in the EU made an announcement that they were
looking at outbound investment screening, and they were going to consult
with their member states as they think about their design.  
  
Our goal is to have the conversations directly with the EU officials who
are doing this work, but also with their member states so that we best
understand, from their perspective, how to structure something that —
how they’re thinking about structuring something in order to make sure
that — as we’ve done in a number of other circumstances over the course
of the Biden administration — we find ways that we can work in
unison.   
  
But a number of these conversations have been driven by \[senior
administration official\] over at the NSC.  And I’ll turn it over him to
talk a little bit more about partner engagement.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, thanks, \[senior administration
official\].  And I would really just echo, you know, your messages
there, including in your — in your topper.  You know, the administration
believes that we act more effectively, we act more durably when we act
alongside our allies and partners.  And we have been very intensively
engaged with our allies and partners over a great many months talking
about exactly this effort.   
  
I think at the G7 Summit in Hiroshima in May you saw G7 leaders come
together and say: We recognize we have a shared national security
interest in ensuring that our most advanced military-relevant, national
security-relevant technologies don’t feed the military modernization,
the intelligence modernization of our — of our rivals.  
  
There was also a recognition that we need to build together a toolkit to
achieve that policy objective, that we have export controls to achieve
that end, we have inbound investment screening mechanisms to achieve
that end.  But outbound investment efforts in a targeted, thoughtful way
are an important complement to those tools that can fill an important
gap, in terms of achieving that objective.  That’s what leaders spoke to
in May.   
  
I think since that time, as you heard \[senior administration official\]
say, the EU has spoken more comprehensively about an economic security
strategy, including steps on outbound investments that they will
consider.  You’ve seen the UK speak about taking additional steps down
the path to develop this tool.   
  
Again, to \[senior administration official’s\] point, I will say: You
know, I and the team here at the White House — and I know it’s true at
Treasury and Commerce as well — have been very intensively engaged with
technical teams across our key allies and partners in recent days.  I’ll
continue those consultations in the days ahead to be sure they
understand all the particulars of — of what we are putting forward
here.  
  
Ultimately, this is a very intensive, very focused process of diplomatic
engagement.  But we’re all sort of rowing in the direction of achieving
a common end, which is ensuring that we have a toolkit in place that in
a narrow, targeted way ensures that the most sensitive technologies
relevant to our national security are protected.  
  
Q    Hey, guys.  Thanks, everybody, for doing this.  
  
I had a question.  There — there was a comment made earlier, and we’ve
been reporting on this, about the difference between private and public
here.  And I think somebody said — for example, on venture capital:
private equity, greenfield investments versus passive investments in
public companies.  
  
Could somebody just help me understand the distinction here and why? 
Like, the goal is to prevent U.S. individuals and institutions from — to
fund the development of, for example, AI, quantum computing in China. 
Why would it matter if the company is privately held or publicly
traded?  And, I guess, as an addendum to that, why wouldn’t the kind of
mature Chinese tech start-ups just flip some stocks (inaudible) it’s
publicly traded?  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Good question.  Let me try and do a bit
of this.   
  
I think part of what we are trying to get at here is the intangible
benefits that come alongside some of the types of investments that are
done here in the United States.   
  
For example, venture capital or private equity.  They don’t just put
money into the firm; they also put intangibles.  Like, they’ll introduce
people — they will, for example, introduce people to experts.  They will
connect the various companies that are in their portfolio to each
other.  And that’s what we’re getting at.  
  
Ultimately, China doesn’t need our money.  They’re a net capital
exporter.  So, the thing we’re trying to prevent is not money going into
China overall, because they have plenty of money.  The thing they don’t
have is the know-how.  And the know-how in our — I believe — know-how we
have seen is often very connected to specific types of investments.  And
that isn’t necessarily seen when it comes to passive investments in the
Chinese stock market, where people are putting in money but they’re not
necessarily providing any know-how.  
  
And it’s often — so, I think — but we’re, of course, going to make sure
that we don’t create opportunities for people to get around this regime
by restructuring their firm.  So, it’s something we’re going to pay
attention to.  And the way the EO is structured and the way the ANPRM is
structured, this allows us to get at various forms of facilitation to
ensure that we’re able to go after those two things when they’re
connected to each other: financial incentives tied to some type of
intangible benefit that will come from one of these U- — a U.S. person
or entity.  
  
Q    Hey, guys.  Thanks for doing this.  I have a bigger-picture
question.  Obviously, you guys have been working on this for a long
time.  It’s been, you know, a big national security priority for the
President, but also, you know, for the National Security Advisor.  Can
you talk about why you decided to sort of roll this out the way you are
doing today where the President is on the road?  He’s not going to speak
publicly to it.  Are you sort of downplaying this achievement that this
EO represents af- — after so many, you know, months of consultations
with various stakeholders?  
  
And then, given the rulemaking process is going to take time and, you
know, probably won’t take effect for a while into next year when we’re
pretty close to a presidential election, how confident are you that this
is going to get codified into law, given that there is — seems to be a
little bit of daylight between what the Hill is comfortable doing —
which, you know, their amendment did not have any prohibitions — and
what you’re seeking to do?  And maybe some of the national security
community would like to even build on —  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Let me give that to \[senior
administration official\].  But I think what I would say is that just
the fact that we’ve been talking about doing this and that we’re doing
this has had an impact in terms of what’s happening with regard to
private equity and venture capital.  And my — and I — and \[senior
administration official\] can speak to this as well.   
  
But these firms have heard us in terms of our concerns in these three
areas.  And you’re already starting to see movement both amongst the
GPs, but also the limited partners as well.   
  
So, I think that you’re already starting to have an impact.  And our
goal is to provide additional clarity and to provide clear rules of the
road over time.   
  
But I think that the truth is that by signaling it was a national
security priority early and by continuously talking about the areas of
concern — both by Secretary Raimondo, Secretary Yellen, the President,
and the National Security Advisor — it’s already put us in a position
where a number of market participants have already started to act even
in advance of this.   
  
And our goal is to provide more clarity to make sure that we’re
capturing all the behavior.  I’ll let \[senior administration official\]
speak to the Hill dynamics and also to the broader strategy.   
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, and — and just to say that I
think, you know, the answer your first question, Jenny, is — is in — in
\[senior administration official’s\] answer to your second.   
  
This is a policy priority, a policy objective, that we’ve spoken to
early, often, and in all — in all settings for a great many months now,
whether that’s been consultations with industry and stakeholders,
whether that’s been consultations with the Hill, whether — importantly,
as I talked about before — that’s been very publicly to intensive
diplomacy, including at the highest levels at the G7 Summit in May.   
  
This is something that has been an important objective that we’ve shared
with allies, that we’ve shared with the Hill, and that we’re taking
concerted — if narrow and — and targeted, a concerted a- — as well as
narrow and targeted action to pursue, just as we said, we’ve — just as
we’ve been saying we’re going to now for many months.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  And — and this is \[senior
administration official\].  Let me just add that, you know, Jenny, this
is also in keeping with the existing efforts that we’ve been engaged in
since day one of this administration.  It’s what we do here through our
export controls using the tools at our disposal.  It’s certainly what we
do in partnership with Treasury and others, utilizing the CFIUS
process.  And Treasury has its set of tools separate and apart from
this.   
  
It’s a whole-of-government approach to getting at the ongoing challenges
that we’re facing from adversaries and countries of concern.  And,
frankly, this is in keeping with what we’ve discussed specifically with
our Chinese counterparts.   
  
Just a few weeks ago, I spoke with the ambassador about something that
others in this administration have said, and that’s that we are focused
on a “small yard with high fences” and that we are being very clear
about defining what is in the yard.   
  
And so, that’s what this is all about is providing very concrete and
clear guidance as to what we are doing with this effort, what is in
scope, what is of concern for national security purposes, and being very
targeted so that — so that it can be implemented easily and effectively
by stakeholders across industry.  
  
MODERATOR:  Great.  Thank you.  And that’s all the time we have.  Thank
you to our speakers, and thanks everyone for joining.  
  
As a reminder, this call is on background, attributable to “senior
administration officials.”  And it’s embargoed until 4:00 p.m. Eastern
today.   
  
We’ll follow up with embargoed materials as well, and let us know if you
have any follow up-questions.   
  
Thanks again, everyone.  
  
2:43 P.M. EDT
