---
date: '2024-02-23'
modified_time: 2024-02-23 18:02:38-05:00
published_time: 2024-02-23 18:02:37-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/02/23/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-february-23-2024/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre, February 23,\_2024"
---
 
James S.  Brady Press Briefing Room

1:40 P.M. EST  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Good afternoon, everybody.

Q    Good afternoon.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I think it’s Frid- — it’s Friday, right?

Q    (Inaudible.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  (Laughs.)  Good point.  Good point.

Okay.  A couple things at the top before we get into questions.  (A
cellphone rings.)  Somebody wants to take that?  (Laughter.)  Don’t want
to interrupt your call.

Okay.  So, I want to address some devastating news out of Oklahoma.  As
a parent, I was absolutely heartbroken to learn about Nex Benedict’s
death.  
  
Every young person deserves to feel safe and supported at school.  
  
Our hearts are with Nec- — Nex Benedict’s family, friends, entire school
community in the wake of this horrific and gut-wrenching tragedy.  
  
I know that for many LGBTQ+ students across the country, this may feel
personal and deeply, deeply painful.  
  
There is always someone you can talk to if you’re going through a hard
time and need support.

The President and his administration launched the 988 line to help, and
we have a line dedicated to serving LGBTQ+ young people that can be
reached by dialing 988 and pressing “3.”  
  
Through devastating tragedies like these, we must support each other and
lift one another up.

Now, in another news that we learned — that came out this week is how
the people of Alabama woke up to shocking news.  
  
The State Supreme Court has put access to fertility treatments at risk
for families who are desperately trying to get pregnant.  
  
It’s unimaginable for people who want to become parents, and it’s a
devastating example of the kind of chaos and confusion that has resulted
from the overturning of Roe v. Wade.  
  
There are reports that families seeking fertility care don’t know what
to do or where to turn.  Doctors are afraid to pr- — of prosecution. 
And families in other states are worried they might be next.

But this is not the first time reproductive care has been disrupted in
Alabama, a state where women are already living under a total abortion
ban.  The state has no exceptions for rape or incest.

This is the same state whose Attorney General threatened to prosecute
people who help women travel out of state to seek the care that they
need.  
  
And it’s not just Alabama.  We’re seeing this chaos play out across the
country.

The day Roe fell is the day that the floodgates opened for Republican
elected officials to dictate some of the most personal decisions
families can make.  
  
Now, as a result:  
  
Twenty-one states have abortion bans in effect.  In nearly all \[these\]
states, doctors can be charged with a felony for simply doing their
jobs.  
  
Twenty-seven million women of reproductive age now live in states with
abortion bans.

Over 380 state bills restricting access to abortion care were introduced
just last year.  
  
And congressional Republicans have proposed three national abortion
bans.  
  
It doesn’t stop there.  Believe it or not, it doesn’t stop there.  
  
Birth control access is under attack.  Women are being denied care for
ectopic pregnancy.  And now, with this decision out of Alabama —
Alabama, IVF is under attack.  
  
So, we want to be really clear here: It is absolutely unacceptable to
this administration when women are denied the care that they need.  It
is unacceptable.

President Biden and Vice President Harris will continue to fight to
protect access to reproductive healthcare and call on Congress to
restore the protections of Roe v. Wade in federal law for all women in
every state.

Now, as you saw this mo- — morning, we are excited to announce that on
March 1st, President Biden will welcome Prime Minister Meloni of Italy
to the White House to reaffirm the strong relationship between the
United States and Italy.  
  
The leaders will discuss shared approaches to address global challenges,
including their commitment to continue supporting Ukraine as it
confronts Russia’s aggressions, preventing regional escalation in the
Middle East and delivering humanitarian aid to the people of Gaza,
developments in North Africa, and close trans- — transatlantic
coordination regarding the People’s Republic of China.  
  
They will also discuss Italy’s G7 presidency and coordinate in advance
of the N- — of the NATO Summit in Washington.

And finally, earlier today, you heard directly from the President when
he delivered remarks and issued a statement to mark the second
anniversary of Russia’s invasion of Ukraine tomorrow. 

We mourn — we mourn the many Ukrainian lives who have been lost as a
result of Russia’s unprovoked and unlawful war, and we are committed —
committed to com- — continuing to support the people of Ukraine as they
defend themselves against Russia’s vicious and brutal war in Ukraine.  
  
As part of that commitment, we sanctioned over 500 targets today to
impose additional costs on Russia for its repression, human rights
abuses, and aggression against Ukraine.  
  
The Department of Commerce is adding more than 90 companies to the
Entity List for their activities in support of Russia’s
defense-industrial base and war effort.  
  
And the Department of State is designating three Russian individuals who
were connected to Navalny’s imprisonment and the Russian government’s
harsh treatment of him.  
  
The U.S. government has designated over 4,000 entities and individuals
in response to Russia’s war on Ukraine over the past two years, the
strongest set of sanctions ever imposed on a major economy.  
  
And we will continue — we will continue to take actions to ensure Mr.
Putin pays an — an — a steeper price for his aggression abroad, the
repression at home.  
  
At the same time, we need House Republicans to join us — to join us in
standing up to Putin and to take action by passing the national security
supplemental bill to ensure we can continue to support Ukraine.  
  
Time is of the essence and Ukraine cannot afford for House Republicans
to continue to delay.

Before I continue, we will have the week ahead later to all of you.  I
don’t have that in front of me at this time.  But, obviously, we’ll
share that with all of you.

Go ahead, Zeke.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  We’ve heard some sharp words from the President,
from yourself, criticism of the Speaker for not bringing up the Ukraine
aid to the floor.  Has the President reached out directly to the Speaker
at all since their last conversation a month ago?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, we have- — I don’t have a — a call to read out to
you about a call between the President or — and the Speaker. 

You — look, want to be very clear here.  We’ve been — we’ve been — and
it’s been clear to all of you, and you’ve all have reported this as
well.  We know for a fact that if this bill — this national security
supplemental were to go to the floor, it would get bipartisan support. 
This is in the House — in the House, obviously.  We know that House
Republicans would support this.  We know that House Democrats would
support this.  
  
All — all he needs to do — all the Speaker needs to do is bring this to
the floor — it will get support — instead of playing political —
political games here, instead of playing political stunts.   
  
And you all have reported — I believe Politico reported — how there is
no direction for this — for this — for this Republican co- — caucus in
the House.  They don’t have a plan.   
And it’s easy to do.   
  
This is something — and I’m going to be really blunt here.  Lives are at
stake.  If you think about what’s happening in Ukraine, if you think
about what’s happening in the Middle East, lives are at stake here. 
This is about saving lives, and they can get this done.   
  
This is also about the national security of the American people.  So, if
he truly stands with the American people, he would get this done.  Put
it on the floor.  It will get bipartisan support.  Put it on the floor. 
Stop playing political games.  
  
Q    In your topper, you mentioned the Alabama decision.  Is there any
actions the federal government can take or is looking at taking to try
to help women who are trying to get in vitro fertilization services? 
(Inaudible) hospital network that — that stopped the practice now.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, look — and, look, I don’t have anything to
share at this time.  I know you’re asking me are there any policy
actions — right? — that we can take from here.  Look, what we will say
here is that the fix here is — is not — is — is Roe v. Wade.  That’s the
fix.  That’s how we get to a place where we fix what’s going on and stop
the chaos that we’re seeing in these states.   
  
That’s the fix.  It is a legislative fix that needs to come from
Congress.  That’s what we need to get — to get to a place to.  
  
I don’t have anything to announce here.  But it is unimaginable of what
families are now having to deal with and how this could spread to other
states.  And this is the chaos — the chaos that comes from the Dobbs
decision, that comes from what Republicans have been doing since the
Dobbs decision.   
  
And so, we have to get this right.  We have to get this fixed by making
sure Congress acts and gets Roe — become — makes Roe the law of the
land.  The courts got it wrong.  The courts got it wrong in this.  
  
Q    And then, last from me.  Last month, the President said that he did
not have any additional executive authority to act on with regard to the
border.  He met with governors this morning, where he apparently told
them that he was looking and talked to his lawyers and seemed frustrated
with his lawyers as he’s trying to devise some executive actions.  We
did some reporting on that in the last couple of days as well.  
  
So, is the President currently contemplating any additional executive
actions on the border?  What are they, and when will we see that?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, we don’t have any actions to — to announce
today — no decisions.  And this is something that I’ve actually spoken
to the President about.  No decisions have been made on this.   
  
Here’s what we know, and here’s the bottom line.  There is no executive
action — no executive action that the President can take — no matter how
aggressive it could be, can deliver the significant policy reforms and
additional — additional resources that Congress could have provided that
Republicans rejected.  Right?   
  
There’s nothing — no actions that he could take that would have been —
that would be as — as — as tough, as fair as this bipartisan —
bipartisan legislation that came out of the Senate, obviously, that we
worked on for — for months.   
  
And that’s what would have actually dealt with this, what was happening
at the border, dealt with the immigration situation.  And this is what
Republicans rejected.  
  
And so, look, I don’t have any decisions to — to make at this time. 
What we believe is that that piece of legislation that came out —
bipartisan piece of legislation that came out of the Senate, that would
have been the way to move forward here.   
  
And, again, Republicans in the House decided to block that.  They
decided to go a political direction.  They decided on issues, on
policies that were included in there that they believed in — that they,
at one point, believed that’s how to move forward to deal with the
border — they — they rejected it.  
  
And so, again, don’t have anything to announce at this time or any
decisions — to be even more clear, any decisions that have been made
right now.  But we had something at — on the table that came out of the
Senate in a bipartisan way, and they decided — and they rejected it,
meaning the Republicans in the House.  
  
Go ahead, Selina.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  On the Alabama IVF ruling.  How concerned should
American families be that this could spread to other conservative
states?  And does this president need to do more than simply calling for
the codification of Roe v. Wade?  Does he need to go further here, since
this does deal with —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look —  
  
Q    — a separate issue?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  And I hear your — your — your question here.  Yeah,
they should be concerned.  They should be concerned.  On your first part
of your question, they should be concerned that this should — could
spread in other states.  
  
This is the chaos that has come out of the Dobbs decision.  This is the
chaos that has come out of — of getting ri- — rid of Roe, which was the
law of the land for almost 50 years.   
  
And so, look, what needs to happen — I mean, the way that we fix this or
the way that we get to a place where women feel protected, where women
can make decisions on their own body, where families can make a decision
on how to move forward in –in growing their family or starting a family
is to — is to get Roe and Wade to — Roe v. Wade needs to be the law of
the land.  That’s the fix.  That’s what needs to happen.  
  
And there is — that is the — the best way to move forward here.  
  
Q    And on the border deal.  The President had earlier said that he was
out of options when it comes to executive actions.  Does the fact that
he’s considering other actions mean that there was more he could have
done earlier?   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I —  
  
Q    So, what changed here?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m going to be very clear.  The bottom line, the only
way to — we could have had move forward — we could move forward in a
effective, more comprehensive way was to move forward with the
bipartisan — bipartisan legislation that came out of the Senate.  That
was the way that we believe would have been a fair — it was a — one of
the toughest, one of the fairest bipartisan border security bills that
we have seen in decades.   
  
It would have dealt with giving resources that’s needed at the border. 
It would have dealt with dealing with policy issues as it relates to
immigration.  And that’s what — the way we should have moved forward.  
  
A couple of things it would have done: establish a fair — a more
efficient process for asylum claims with consequences for those who do
not have a legal basis to remain in the United States; provide more
resources to secure the border and process claims — Border Patrol
agents, law enforcement personnel, and detection technology to combat
fentanyl trafficking, asylum officers and immigration judges; make our
country safer, our border more secure, while treating people fairly and
humanely, consistent with our values as a nation.  
  
Republicans rejected this bipartisan agreement that came out of the
Senate.  That’s something that the President worked with in a bipartisan
way, obviously, with Republicans and Democrats in the Senate for
months.  They rejected that.  
  
And we believe that is the direction — that is the bottom line for us. 
That’s what — that’s the way we should have moved forward.  We just — I
don’t have anything to announce or any decision that’s been made.  
  
Q    Just real quickly, though.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    Roe v. Wade versus trying to protect women’s rights to IVF
treatment: They are two separate things.  So, is the administration
looking at protections for the latter?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, I don’t have anything to share on any policy
changes or any policy updates for all of you.  We have to understand how
this started.  This started because of what happened with Roe — the
Dobbs decision to overturn Roe, something that was a — a — you know, a
Roe was — was — was, you know, constitutional for almost 50 years —
almost 50 years.  And that got overturned.   
  
And the moment that got overturned, that day, Republicans started to
work and take action.  I just mentioned 380 pieces of legislation to go
against what women’s — difficult decisions that women’s need — women
need to make about their bodies, about their family, about how they’re
going to move forward, about the care that they need — 380 pieces of
legislation across the country.  That’s what is happening.  That’s
what’s happening right now.   
  
And so, the chaos has been started — was started the day that happened —
the day Roe was overturned.  And the only way to fix this — the best way
to fix this is to restore Roe.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you, Karine.  The President made an appeal this morning to
the governors at the White House, asking them to kind of go back to
their states and talk to their congressional lawmakers about passing the
Ukraine aid bill.  I’m wondering if that is sort of the next course of
action where you’re thinking about targeting the Speaker and top House
Republicans in their districts.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, look, the President had an opportunity to — to
engage with governors of both — obviously of both parties, which is
something that he does yearly.  And they have important — important
items to speak on — to speak to on the agenda.  And obviously, this is a
— this is an issue that governors care about.   
  
We know that even with the bipartisan deal for the border security,
obviously, that came out of the Senate, we got support from governors. 
We got letters from governors.  We got letters from that included c- —
mayors from — from the cities that were being affected.  So, we know
that we got support from them.   
  
And so, one way, obviously, to get the Speaker to do his job and put it
— put it on the floor and actually take it up is for governors to speak
up as well.   
  
And I believe that they have.  Obviously, the letter was a key part of
that.   
  
And so, look, there are — there are many, many items on the agenda to
discuss.  This is something that’s important when you think about
immigration, when you think about what’s happening at the border and how
it’s affecting these — these states, these governors.   
  
So, yeah, I think it’s important for — one way the President to show
leadership is to also say — and — and governors to show leadership is to
— to be very clear what this means to them, to their constituents back
at home.   
  
Q    Are you planning to follow up with them in, you know, the next week
if they have had those conversations?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, we’ve been in regular touch with governors. 
Obviously, we — there was a billion dollars that we were able to secure
to help governors deal with the — the migrant situation, the migrant
issue over the past several months.   
  
So, we’ve been in constant communication with governors, with mayors. 
And so, those conversations continue.  
  
What you were able to see is the President leaning in and showing how
important it is to move with the — with the bipartisan deal, as it
relates to the border — obviously, border security and — and also,
obviously, the national security supplemental, since we are — we are
speaking about the — the two-year anniversary tomorrow of Ukraine being
— being attacked by Russia.   
  
So, all of these things are important.  We’re talking about our national
security — our national security — the importance of our national
security for the American people.  And we’re also talking about our
border and what we need to do to make sure that we deal with the border
challenges.   
  
Q    I have a quick one on the meeting that he had in California with
Navalny’s family.  We did see the readout that you put out.  You know,
the President has spoken a little bit on it.  But what specific
assurances did he offer Yulia?  Because the sanctions package was
already in the works — right? — to mark the anniversary of the two-year
war.  
  
What did he tell the Navalny family that he can do?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So —  
  
Q    — to protect them?  I mean, did he advise her not to go back to
Russia?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m going to be really careful and not speak to a
private conversation that the President had.  That is something that we
don’t do here.  I’m not going to go beyond the readout.   
  
But, yes, was the — was the sanction package in motion before Navalny’s
death?  Yes.  As you — as you know, tomorrow will be a two-year
anniversary.   
  
But we added to — we added to the package — obviously added additional
sanctions once we learned about Navalny’s death.   
  
So, both are true.  In this case, both can be true and are true.  And
so, I just am not going to go beyond a conversation — a private
conversation.   
  
Q    Did he ask her not to go back to Russia?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m not — I’m just not going to do that.  Obviously,
it is her decision to make.  I’m just not going to get into — into
private conversations.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Border deal aside, the White House is actively discussing taking
executive action on the border, as the governors mentioned earlier
today, and as we’ve reported.  So, why now?  Is the border deal just a
jumping off point to new executive actions that the President can
take?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, I’m not going to comment on any individual
policy option that’s being speculated in the media.  I’m just not going
to do that.   
  
What we have been very clear — the bottom line is the way to have moved
forward was with this border deal.  That’s the way —  
  
Q    But there is executive actions that are now being considered that
weren’t considered before.  So, why?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m not — I’m not going to get into any policy
discussions that are possibly happening or — or how- — however it’s
being reported.  I’m just not going to get into that.   
  
What I can say is the bottom line here: We believe no executive action,
no matter how aggressive it could be or — or could look would have been
as — as significant as the border deal that came out of the Senate in a
bipartisan way.  No action.   
  
And let’s not forget: Republicans rejected that.  And so, don’t have
anything to go — to go on beyond that.   
  
Q    On Alabama.  What’s your message to the clinics in Alabama that
have proactively paused IVF treatments?  Are they making the right
call?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, I can’t speak to the decisions that the clinics
are making.  That is for them.  They are, you know — you know, there are
safety concerns.  There’s legal concerns that they have to weigh and
decide on.  
  
What we can speak to is the chaos that has been created because of the
overturning of Roe, and we see this.  And it is devastating.  It is
devastating.  It is dangerous to women.   
  
And so, what we’re going to do is continue to speak out against that and
make it very clear that — that the court decision that was made was
wrong.  And — and, yeah, you know what?  This could — this could get
spread.  This could go beyond Alabama.  And that is a scary thought for
many families across the country, certainly many women across the
country.   
  
Q    Last question.  You mentioned there’s no readout with the President
and the House Speaker.  The — one of the — one of the messages in the G7
call, according to John Kirby, will be that the President will do
everything he can to get Congress to pass that funding.  Has there been
any reach-out from the White House to try to get a call or a meeting in
the books since he is the person between that funding and the White
House?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, I — I get the question.  But let’s not forget,
for the past several months, NSC and other parts of, obviously, the
President’s administration have had regular conversation.  You’ve heard
Jake Sullivan speak to going over to House and the Senate to talk to
Republicans and Democrats about the aid, about the importance of the
Ukraine aid.   
  
You’ve heard that conversation.  You’ve heard him say this from this
podium.  And we also know that there is bipartisan support.  We saw it
coming out of the Senate.  And there’s bipartisan support in the
House.  
  
What the Speaker — the pressure here needs to be on the Speaker.  The
Speaker needs to do his job and actually take this up, put it to the —
if he were to put it to the floor, it would have bipartisan support.   
  
But we’ve been doing our job.  We’ve been having those conversations
with congressional members.  And, you know, it’s — it’s unfortunate that
the Speaker chooses to turn this into a political — a political football
here.   
  
This is not what this is about.  This is about our national security. 
This is about the American people.  
  
Go ahead, Ed.  
  
Q    On the sanctions —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — that were unveiled today.  What makes these sanctions any more
effective than the hundreds announced before?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  So, a couple of things, as I just mentioned. 
So, first of all, these sanctions are cumulative, so we have to look at
it in that way.  These are 500 new targeted sanctions that are now being
sanctioned — the targets are being sanctioned for the first time, so
that’s important to note.   
  
These targets are within Russia’s defense industrial base, its financial
system, and it will continue to impose costs on Russia to make it harder
to carry out its brutal war and vicious war in Ukraine.   
  
We will continue to make sure that we hold Putin’s aggression
accountable and raise the cost on his — on — not — not just him but also
his enablers.  But we also, as I’ve said — as I’ve stated, we need
Congress to act.  They need to do their job.  They need to provide the
assistance that Ukrainians need to continue to fight Putin’s brutal
war.   
  
That’s what they need to do.  They need to be able to make sure that we
provide Ukraine’s — Ukrainians with the assistance to defend
themselves.  And so, we are continuing to urge the Speaker.  Again, if
the Speaker were to put this on the floor, we would see bipartisan
support for the national security bill.  
  
Q    I guess, asked another way, you’ve — there have been 4,000
sanctions now in the last two years.  It hasn’t stopped the war.  So, to
what extent — or how should the success of these sanctions even be
measured —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look —  
  
Q    — if that hasn’t happened?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, I totally get the question.  Look, we believe
they’ve been effective.  Right?  That’s what we believe.  The goal of
sanction export control is to increase — again, increase the cost of —
of Mr. Putin and his enablers.  And it’s clear that our sanctions and
imports controls are having an impact.   
  
And so — and it’s not just them.  It’s — obviously, Russia had been
forced — because of we’re — we’re raising the stakes on Russia and their
— and his enablers, we see Russia being forced — right? — to turn to
countries like Iran and North Korea to get the arms and ammunition it
needs to carry out this war.   
  
And I want to read — I want to just lay out an example from Bloomberg. 
Bloomberg reported last month that Russia’s government has tapped almost
half of the national wealth funds available — available reserves as it
pours money into the — its defense budget at the expense of Russia’s
other needs.   
  
When you think about Putin’s own oil c- — own oil czar, they have li- —
he’s linked the fact that Russia has been forced to sell its oil at
heavily discounted prices to our coalition’s increased enforcement of
oil — oil price cap in recent months.  
  
So, we have seen the impact, we believe.  Again, this is cumulative,
what we were able to sanction — again, 500 additional targets.  And we
believe that it has had an impact.  
  
Q    On the Alabama IVF ruling, you have spoken out just here forcefully
about it.  The Vice President did yesterday and continues to on her
national tour.  The President tweeted about it and issued a written
statement.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    When might we see him more publicly speak out about this issue?  We
keep hearing — at least we keep hearing from voters and Democrats who
say, “Where is he on this?  Why isn’t he talking about –”  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, I’ve —  
  
Q    “– an issue of such urgent concern?”  Presidential focus, time,
statement in public instead of on paper is very different than sending
you out here or tweeting about it or sending the Vice President on the
road.  So —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, look, Ed, I think the President has spoken
about what the attack on reproductive rights on — what the attack on
women being able to make choices on behalf of — of their own healthcare
and getting the healthcare that they need, the actions that he has
taken, whether it’s executive actions and what, obviously, his agencies
have been able to do — DOJ, HHS — I mean, those have been done because
of this President, and he has spoken to this many times.   
  
The day that Roe was overturned, you heard from the President.  The
President was the only person that spoke to this on — on that day.  And
I would argue that a statement from the President is incredibly
powerful, is important.  He spoke to this through — through his
statement.  And the President has been very clear where he stands.  
  
He believes that we need to continue to protect women’s right to make a
decision, reproductive rights decision — reproductive health decision,
pardon me.  And that’s where we’re going to continue to be.  That’s
where he’s going to continue to be.  And we’ve been very clear about
that.   
  
Q    We’ve asked about this before.  The Congressional Hispanic Caucus
is once again concerned they are not being brought into conversations
about potential executive orders and other actions taken by the White
House, saying that what they’re reading about, at least, is unacceptable
to them and they haven’t had much dialogue with the White House about
it.  Are there any plans to — to remedy that?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, first, we —  
  
Q    To meet with them?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No decisions have been made.  I want to be very, very
clear about that, again.  And I would say that we are in regular
communication, regular contact with members of — of the Hispanic Caucus,
members of the Progressive Caucus, just members of —  
  
Q    Well, they claim they’re not.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  From my understanding, and I’ve asked about this,
we’ve been in regular communications with them.  And so, obviously, we
respect — we respect congressional members.  We work — we work very
closely with them on many, many issues.   
  
We’ve been in regular communication and regular contact.  We just don’t
have any decisions to make on any executive actions.  We just don’t have
any decisions that have been made.  And that may be why they haven’t
been talked to about that particular issue.   
  
But I would say, as it relates to immigration, as it relates to what
we’ve been trying to do, certainly as it related to the bipartisan
agreement that came out of the Senate, we were in regular discussion.
 No decision has been made.  No decision has been made here.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you.  We know what the governors told us that the President
told them about the border and what he’s considering with regards to
executive actions.  Just for the sake of clarity, can you tell us what
the President told them?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m just not going to go into private conversations. 
I’m just not.  The governors can speak for themselves.  I’m just not
going to go into it.  
  
Q    Okay.  And Tammy Duckworth, the senator from Illinois, is talking
about legislation that could protect IVF at the federal level.  If
Congress were to pass legislation to protect IVF, would President Biden
sign it?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I have not seen the legislation.  I have not talked to
our Office of Leg Affairs about it.  So, I want to be super careful
here.  Obviously, Tammy Duckworth, the senator, is a — is a close
colleague, someone we’ve worked very closely with.  So, I just would
need to talk to our Office of Leg Affairs.  
  
We believe the best way, honestly, to get this done, as it relates to
the chaos that has been created, is to get Roe to — to become law of the
land, and that’s something Congress can do.  I just — I want to be
careful.  I just don’t want to speak to that particular legislation.  
  
Q    And are you actively trying to get additional funding for the
Border Patrol or some of the other funds to help deal with the border
situation added to the CR or whatever vehicle might have to move to
avoid a government shutdown?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, we’re always having active conversations on
what else we can do to make — to deal with the challenges at the border,
obviously.  Don’t have anything specific to lay out on any additional
funding.  Obviously, there was additional funding that we requested in
that border security supplemental.   
  
Obviously, there would have been additional funding if the House — House
Republicans would have moved forward with that bipartisan agreement that
came out of the Senate and Republicans didn’t reject it outright. 
Obviously, that would have been helpful to what’s happening, the
challenges at the border.  I just don’t have anything to share on the
specifics.  
  
Go ahead, (inaudible).  
  
Q    Several on the border, Karine.  But the northern one, it’s not as
dramatic as in the south, but there are different and more and more
reports on migrants crossing the border to come to the U.S.  Is the
administration worried?  Is it in contact with the Canadian government
to try to stop the flow?   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, we are in constant communication with our
Canadian counterparts, obviously, on a range of issues that — including
migrants attempting to cross the border.  Don’t have any new
announcements to make.  But we are constantly having those conversations
with our counterparts in Canada.  I just don’t have anything for you at
this time.  
  
Q    How worried is the administration that it’s happening more and more
(inaudible)?   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, look, I’m not going to — to put a gauge on
this on how worried we are.  But we do have constant communication with
our counterparts on a range of issues, including the one that you just
laid out to me.  
  
Q    And on the sanctions.  The Canadian government today, in parallel,
announced its own package of sanctions against Russians and Russian
entities.  How — how was the coordination happening, the — the planning
of all of this?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, obviously, I just laid out that we are in
constant communication with our Canadian counterparts on a range of
issues.  Obviously, Canada has been a — a strong partner with us, along
with 50 other — 50 — or 49 other countries — obviously, NAT- — including
NATO — NATO Alliance, as well, and what the President has been able to
do to bring a strong front as it relates to helping Ukraine beat back
with Russia’s aggression.  
  
I don’t have any specific conversations to lay out on how that
coordination — potential coordination worked.  But we are in constant
communication with our Canadian counterparts.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you, Karine.  On the consideration of these new executive
orders for the border.  What changed between the time President Biden
said, “We are a nation who says, ‘If you want to flee and you’re fleeing
oppression, you should come,’” and now?   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t understand.  What — what do you mean?  The —
your question, I don’t get —  
  
Q    As a candidate —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — how it’s connected to the —  
  
Q    — President Biden was telling people to come to the border.  So,
what has changed since then?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — I don’t have a context of this quote that you’re
giving me.  But what I will say is this.  The President took this issue
very seriously of what is happening at the border and what — and the
immigration system as a whole.  Right?   
  
And we have said over and over again, this is a system that has been
broken for decades, under the last administration, as you know, which
was a Republican administration, and other administrations before that. 
And he took this so seriously that the first piece of legislation that
he put forth on day one was on immigration reform.  That is what counts,
and that is what matters.  
  
And for the past several months, we worked with Republican senators and
also Democrats in the Senate to try to come up with a fair and tough
piece of legislation that would deal with border security.  That was —
let’s not forget — endorsed by the border union patrol.  
  
And that’s how seriously the President has taken it.  We’ve done this
for months, and House Republicans have gotten in the way.  The Speaker
has gotten in the way.   
  
And so, we want to deal with this issue.  This is an issue that majority
of Americans care about.  House Republicans, the Speaker got in the
way.  
  
The question really is for the Speaker: What changed?  Speaker Johnson,
what’s changed?  
  
Q    Something else President Biden has promised is a more humane border
policy than Trump.  So, why would he even be considering now a border
policy that is more similar to Trump?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  What border policy are you talking about?  
  
Q    Well, Axios is reporting that the legal authority Biden is
considering using powered Trump’s Muslim ban and similar sweeping
restrictions at the border.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m not going to get into — get into or comment on
individual policy option that’s being speculated right now.  As I said
before, no decisions have been made.  We want to make sure — the
President has been very clear: He wants to make sure that our country is
safer, and we need more Border Security, abv- — obviously, to secure our
border.  We’ve been very clear about that.  And we want to do it while
treating people fairly and humanely, and that is consistent with our
values.  
  
But, look, Republicans continue to get in the way.  Speaker Johnson has
gotten in the way of this.  And so, a lot of these questions are for
him.  
  
We did our job.  The Senate did their job in a bipartisan way on — there
are provisions in that — polic- — policies that are in that legislation
that Republicans agreed with at some point, not very long ago — just
last year — that they agreed with.  And now they’re rejecting it.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Karine, with regards to the sanctions on Russia, you mentioned that
previous sanctions, you said, had been effective, in part, because
Russia was forced to go to other countries like Iran and North Korea to
get resources.   
  
Still, though, the war is not over.  How can you make the argument that
those sanctions have been effective if they’re still getting those
resources from those other countries, wherever they get them from?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, we believe — and I just laid this out moments
ago — that we have seen an impact.  I talked about Bloomberg.  I talked
about what their — Putin’s own oil czar has had to do.  I mean, this is
the — I mean, what we have been able to impose on — on Russia has been
pretty significant.  It has been pretty significant, when you think
about the — another major economy — the most that we’ve ever been able
to do on any major economy.  And as — as I’ve stated, this is
cumulative.  Right?  This is a — this is a continuation.  And we
believe, as has been reported, that we have seen — that we have seen
some impact here.   
  
We’re going to continue to use every tool — every tools in our — in our
tool belt, obviously.  We’re going to develop — developing new tools to
make it harder and costlier for Russia to fuel its war machine.  That’s
what we’re going to do.  And at the same time, we need Congress to do
their jobs, we need House Republicans, we need the Speaker to put on the
floor a national security supplemental plan that we believe and we know
will get bipartisan support.   
  
We’ve heard from Republicans in the House; we’ve heard from, obviously,
Democrats in the House.  That’s what we need the — the House to do.   
  
Q    And on the border.  I know you’ve said you couldn’t or wouldn’t get
into specific executive actions being considered or not considered.  But
bottom line: As a — as a policy, does the administration believe that
asylum laws need to be strengthened?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m going to be —  
  
Q    And — but the reas- — the —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I know.  I know.   
  
Q    I know.  But the reason I asked that is that the bipartisan bill —
and you said the President would sign it —   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, he would.  
  
Q    — would strengthen asylum laws.  So, I just want to be sure: The
administration does believe that asylum laws need to be strengthened?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Obviously, because it was in — as you just stated — in
the bipartisan legislation that came out of the Senate that the
President’s team worked very closely on.  I just want to be very, very
clear and very careful.  Decisions haven’t been made.  I’m not going to
get into any internal — internal policy — individual policy, pardon me,
option that’s being speculated in the press.  I’m just not going to do
that from here.  But no decision has been made.   
  
Q    And finally, on a separate topic.  I know the U.S. has had a
complicated relationship with Mexico before.  I wanted to get the White
House’s reaction to President López Obrador doxing a New York Times
reporter in a press conference.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, well, I — well, I’ve not seen that.  Obviously,
that’s not something we support.  We believe in the freedom of the
press, obviously, which is why we do this on — on — almost on a daily
basis.   
  
And we — we — it is important for the press to be able to report on
issues that matter to the American people freely in an — in a way that,
obviously, you all feel secure and safe and in a way that you’re not
being <s>doxied</s> \[doxed\] or attacked.  That is — you know, that is
something that we will, obviously, reject.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  One follow-up on Nex Benedict and then another one
on a —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — separate subject.  Given that Nex’s family said they had been
bullied in the months prior to their death, specifically about their
gender identity, and the family also says that Nex was physically
assaulted the day prior to their death, does the White House think that
this case should be the subject of a federal hate crime investigation?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m going to be really careful.  That is something for
the Department of Justice to decide on.  I cannot speak to that. 
Obviously, our hearts go out to — to Nex Benedict’s family.  It is a
tragedy that is awful.   
  
And I said this at the beginning, and I’ll say it again: Every kid
should feel safe and should feel protected when they go to school.  And
this should not be the case.   
  
But that is something — as far as any legal action, that’s something for
the Department of Justice to decide.   
  
Q    And then the Florida Surgeon General defied CDC guidelines this
week suggesting it’s fine to send unvaccinated kids to school amid a
measles outbreak there.  This comes as the CDC says that routine
childhood vaccinations hit a 10-year low in 2023, putting about a
quarter of a million kindergarteners at risk for measles.   
  
Does the administration support tightening the kinds of philosophical
and religious exemptions that are increasingly being used to defy school
childhood vaccine mandates?  And what else is the administration doing
to promote the importance of childhood vaccines, especially against the
backdrop of this nationwide uptick in measles outbreaks?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, just a — a couple of things.  As it relates to the
outbreak, the CDC is actively monitoring these cases.  And as you know,
we have — the White House Office of Pandemic Preparedness and Response
remains in close and regular contact as we continue to — to work and
monitor what’s going on on the ground.   
  
And we want to make sure that communities feel safe, obviously.  So, any
questions on — specifically on that, I would refer you to the CDC.   
  
Look, you know, responding to measles outbreaks, which are now,
obviously, occurring in every region of the world is a priority for this
administration.  Meas- — measles, as you know, is highly contagious,
infect- — infectious — contagious infection.  But it is easily prevented
with routine child- — childhood vaccines.   
  
We are providing technical support to the — for example, to the World
Health Organization and UNICEF, and we are donating, as well — make sure
that there is a vaccine alliance, which has provided millions of measles
and other vaccine doses to low- and low-middle-income countries.   
  
So, we are monitoring this.  It is important that, obviously, we do
everything we can to mitigate the situation.  But CDC is actively aware,
obv- — obviously, actively monitoring these cases that we’re seeing
across the country.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you, Karine.  So, in addition to the sanctions, is the
President supportive of, you know, confiscating frozen Russian assets
and using it for Ukraine’s reconstruction?   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, a couple of things, because this is a little bit
complicated.  And I want to take a step back for the folks who — who
are, clearly, watching the briefing.  I understand that you all
understand this.  
  
But in 2- — 2022, we worked together with our allies and partners to
quickly immobilize almost $300 billion of Russia’s sovereign assets that
they had held internationally when they launched their brutal invasion
of Ukraine.  That joint action to cut off Russia’s access to a
significant amount of funds has made it much riskier for Russia to fund
its war against the Ukrainian people and boost their defense spending
while also mana- — managing their economy.   
  
So, now we’re going to continue to be in active conversation with our
allies and partners, including the G7, as well as members of Congress,
on additional steps to seize Russia’s aggres- — to seize Russians’ —
Russia’s aggression in Ukraine and to ensure Russia pays for the damage
it has caused.  
  
I don’t have any new announcement to make.  But it is a bit complicated
because, as I said, we’re talking about international — kind of an int-
— it’s been held internationally.  So, it is a little bit more
complicated.  
  
Q    Are there other countries who are planning to, you know, take that
action?   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I would refer you to other countries.  I can’t speak
for other countries here.  But I just wanted to make sure we laid out it
is complicated.  It is not as simple as it — as it may seem.  But,
certainly, don’t have any new announcements to make at this time.   
  
Go ahead, Karen.  
  
Q    Thanks.  What’s the view from the White House right now about how
conversations are going about government funding and spending bills next
week — or ahead of next week’s significant deadlines —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — I mean —

Q    — for a shutdown?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, and we’re — you know, we’ve been here before and
we’ve always been very clear: House Republicans have a job to do.  Their
basic duty is to keep the government open.  They need to not play
politics here.  They need to not play politics here.  They need to get
this done.  We’ve been very clear about that.  And — and it is their
job.

If you think about it, and I’ve talked about this before, House
Republicans — two thirds of the House Republicans voted for the deal
last year.  And just early this year, they reaffirmed that deal.  So,
what’s the problem?  What’s the problem here?  They need to get this
done.  They need to get this done. 

There are important programs that the American people need.  And so,
they need to move forward and make sure we keep the government open.

Q    I feel like I’ve asked you this before deadlines.  But are you
anticipating another short-term funding bill, another CR?  And is the
President okay with that this time around too?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, I’m not going to get into legislative
negotiations from here.  But, look, it is — we got to be really clear. 
Like, these are programs that are critical, that are important to the
American people.  And it needs to get done.  It needs to get done. 

So, I’m not going to get into negotiations from here.  House Republicans
need to do their jobs here.  They need to get to work.  And they need to
make sure that we — they avoid, they prevent a needless shutdown.

Q    And are White House officials involved in any conversations, like
Leg Affairs, with congressional leaders this weekend about getting
closer to something?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I can say that OMB — OMB and our Leg Affairs team
are in touch with lawmakers from both parties every day on the need to
keep the government open.   
  
But, again, this is — this — this problem is a problem of the House
Republicans’ making.  It’s not something that we can fix for them.  This
is something that they can deal with.  This is something that they need
to actually work on.  And they need to get to work here.  They need to
get to work.

Go ahead, Ed.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  I want to try a little bit different on the
executive actions, possibly, on the border.  The bills are stalled.  So,
why wait three years, now, in to take alternatives or take possible
executive actions on the border?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  What are you talking about?

Q    Well, you mentioned the — the bill, the when — the first week in
office, the President issued his bill that — for immigration reform and
then the negotiated Senate bill.  Those are both stalled.  The House is
not taking them up.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I think you’re seeing it very differently than we
are.  We’re saying that the President took it very seriously.  He took
it very seriously by taking action on day one, putting forward a
comprehensive immigration policy legislation that he wanted Congress to
act on.  They did not act on it. 

We — we taken actions on our own.  And we’ve been able to secure some
funding to deal with what we’ve seen at the border.  But we need more. 
We need more.  And we’ve said this.  We have said this for the past
three years.  And House Republicans have continued to get in the way. 

In the last couple of months, we worked with Senate Republicans and
Democrats for — for several months to come up with a border security
that is tough, that is fair, that’s supported — that was endorsed by the
Border Patrol union.  The Border Patrol union endorsed this — this
legislation.  Repu- — Republicans rejected it. 

So, this is — this is something for Republicans in the House to speak
to.  We’ve worked with the Senate in a bipartisan way to get this done,
to actually deal with an issue that matters to the American people, in a
bipartisan way.  And House Republicans have allowed politics to get in
the way.   
  
And Speaker Johnson left early after — if you think about the national
security supplemental that had to — we had to take out — they had to
take out the border security from it because that’s what the Speaker
wanted.  That was done out of the Senate.  It was passed.  And then, the
Speaker went home early and is gone.  He went on — they — he went on
vacation early. 

And so, this is — this is truly a question for the Speaker.

Q    Well — but my question is — is: Now we’re hearing about executive
actions that could be taken.  Why wait this long —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I have been very —

Q    — to look at executive actions?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’ve been very clear: We have made no decisions on
that.  I’m not going to get into policy discussions or hypotheticals
that we’re hearing right now.  Be very clear. 

But the focus here should be what happened in the Senate in a bipartisan
way that Republicans have rejected.  That is — that is the reality that
we’re in here, Ed.  That’s the reality.

Q    And then one more, if I may.  In fiscal year 2023, at the border,
there were 24,000 Chinese nationals that had illegally crossed and 288
were deported.  And the National Border Patrol Council President says
that the vast majority of them coming across now are military-aged men. 
What’s the level of concern for the White House about these
military-aged men?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, this is a — this is — continues to be a concern
for this for — for this administration.  So, we’ll — we’ll just start
there.  But speaking specifically to individuals just in general who
pose a — a risk to public safety and national security regardless of
nationality, they are detained as they undergo immigration proceedings
and are removed if they do not have a legal basis to remain in the
United States.

Global migration is at the highest since World War Two.  And that means
we work with our international par- — partners to bolster their
enforcement capabilities while expanding economic opportunities and
lawful pathways. 

That’s what we’ve been able to do for migrants deserving of protection,
specifically under the President’s Los Angeles Declaration for Migration
and Protection and Americas Partnership for Economic Prosperity. 

And again, I go back to that bipartisan agreement that came out of the
Senate.  And that would have been a — a step forward here.  It would
have been a piece of legislation that — that, as I’ve said, would have
been tough, it would have been fair, and it was endorsed by the Border
Patrol union, and Republicans in — in the House rejected it.

Go ahead, Gerren.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  A group of progressive lawmakers led by
Congresswoman Barbara Lee and 200 organizations sent a letter to the
President this week urging him to take executive action, including
executive orders, to advance a range of bills that have been introduced
by Democrats that have been stalled in Congress, including H.R. 40,
which the President said he supports, to create a reparations
commission, the John R. Lewis Voting Rights Act, as well as resolutions
to protect Black history and create a banned books weeks in — in light
of these bans we’ve been seeing in states like Florida.   
  
Has the White House received this letter?  And does the President
believe that his racial justice agenda has been effective?  And does he
think that he — he can do more through executive action?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, let me just say that a lot of — and, yes, we have
received the letter, and a lot of the items in the letter that has been
— the issues that have been outlined is some of the — is some of the
causes that the President has championed over the past three years. 

The President has taken, as you know, historic actions as it relates to
voting rights here, strengthening voting rights on the federal level. 
He’s taken action to raise wages.  Let’s not forget the actions that
he’s taken — because he’s taken the actions on building an economy from
the bottom up, middle out, we have seen, as it relates to unemployment
for the Black community.  When he walked in, it was at 9 percent.  Now
it’s at 5 percent.  Always more work to be done.  But that matters. 

Black wealth has jumped up to 60 percent since the pre-pandemic days.   
  
He supports a study of reparations and continues the — as — and the
continuing impacts of slavery and signed an executive order to — to deal
with racial equality on his very first day in office, as it relates to
the federal government and what agencies can do better.  And also, you
know, he’s spoken about banning of books as it relates to Black
history.  
  
So, the President is going to — is committed to making sure that we
address racial inequalities here, and he’s going to take — continue —
and he’s going to continue to take action to make sure no communities
are left behind.  And as I just stated, he’s taken historic executive
action on this issue.  
  
This is a priority for this President.  When he walked into this
administration, he talked about the different — the different crises
that our country was dealing with: climate change, it was COVID at the
time, the economy at the time.  Racial inequality was part of that as
well.  
  
And so, he’s committed.  He’s committed.  
  
(Speaking to an aide.)  I know.  You’re trying to get me.  (Laughs.)  
  
Go ahead, sir.  
  
Q    Thank you.  During last year, in December, the administration sold
weapons to Israel, bypassing Congress.  Why can’t the U.S. do the same
for Ukraine right here and right now, given their desperate need of
weaponry?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, we need — we actually need funding.  We need
this — we need this funding in order to get Ukraine what they need. 
It’s gone.  You’ve heard — you’ve heard — you’ve heard the Admiral speak
to this.  You’ve heard the National Security Advisor speak to this from
this podium.  It’s gone.  There is no more.  
  
We need Congress to do its job and to pass much-needed assistance —
security assistance that the Ukraines need — Ukrainians need.  
  
Q    But we’re talking about a sale of weaponry.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  If there’s — I mean, there’s a lot more to this,
right?  There is actual — their actual funding that we need to make sure
that we get so that DOD and so that the –obviously, the Pentagon can do
what it needs to do in order to give the — to give the security
assistance that is needed, to give — to give the — to give the weapons
that they need to pro- — to fight against <s>Ukrainians’</s>
\[Russia’s\] aggression.  
  
You’ve heard the Admiral speak to this today on his — in his gaggle, and
you’ve heard him talk about this multiple times.   
  
There are — there is an assistance that we have to provide to them. 
That is — it’s not a — we just don’t have it now.  We’re done.  
  
Q    If there — if there is no success on the Hill, would you consider
selling weapons to Ukraine?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, the way to deal with this is to pass this
national security supplemental.  The way to actually help the people of
Ukraine to fight for their sovereignty, to fight for their democracy, to
fight against — against Mr. Putin’s aggression is to actually pass this
national security supplemental.   
  
That would get bipartisan support in the House.  It will.  That’s how
we’re — we move forward here.  There’s no other way to actually do this
in a bipartisan scenario.  It’s there.  And Speaker — Speaker — the
Speaker needs to do his job.  Speaker Johnson needs to take this up.   
  
We know that the bipartisan support exists.  We’ve heard from
Republicans speak to this directly and very recently.  So, why doesn’t
he just do his job and stop putting politics in front of this?   
  
This is why I don’t want to get into hypotheticals, because there’s an
option that exists.  There’s an actual oct- — option that exists.  And
the Speaker is putting politics in this.  And that’s not how we should
move forward.  
  
All right, everybody.  Thank you so much.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  See you tomorrow — not tomorrow.  Tomorrow
is Saturday.  (Laughter.)  
  
See you next week.  
  
2:32 P.M. EST
