---
date: '2024-02-22'
modified_time: 2024-02-22 18:52:22-05:00
published_time: 2024-02-22 18:52:21-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/02/22/on-the-record-press-gaggle-by-white-house-national-security-communications-advisor-john-kirby-2/
tags: press-briefings
title: "On-the-Record Press Gaggle by White\_House National Security Communications\
  \ Advisor John\_Kirby"
---
 
National Security Council

Via Teleconference

1:39 P.M. EST

MODERATOR:  Good afternoon, and thank you for joining us for today’s
on-the-record news of the day gaggle.  I will turn it over to Kirby for
a few opening words, and then we’ll go to questions.

MR. KIRBY:  Thank you, Sean.  And thanks, everybody. 

I’d like to top today by speaking briefly about Iran’s deepening
military partnership with Russia, which is, of course, not only harmful
to Ukraine but also to Iran’s neighbors in the region and to the
international community. 

Iran has been providing Russia with significant numbers of drones,
guided aerial bombs, and artillery ammunition, which Russia has been
using to some effect to attack Ukraine. 

In addition, and as I warned last month from the White House podium,
Russia negotiations — Russian negotiations to acquire close-range
ballistic missiles from Iran have been actively advancing. 

Now, just yesterday, Reuters published a story indicating that Iran has
provided Russia with hundreds of ballistic missiles.  This article
appears to be based on comments from Iranian government officials who
are bragging about providing Russia with missiles that can be used to
kill Ukrainian civilians. 

While we have been monitoring this closely, we have not seen any
confirmation that missiles have actually moved from Iran to Russia.  But
in this press reporting, the Iranians are clearly indicating that they
will ship ballistic missiles to Russia, and we have no reason to believe
that they will not follow through.

If Iran proceeds with this provision of ballistic missiles, I can assure
you that the response from the international community will be swift and
it will be severe.  For our part, we will take this matter to the U.N.
Security Council.  We will implement additional sanctions against Iran. 
And we will coordinate further response options with our allies and
partners in Europe and elsewhere. 

We have demonstrated our ability to take action in response to the
military partnership between Russia and Iran in the past.  We will do so
in the future. 

In response to Iran’s ongoing support for Russia’s brutal war, we will
be imposing additional sanctions on Iran in the coming days.  And we are
prepared to go further if Iran sells ballistic missiles to Russia.

I do think it’s important to keep this issue in some sense of
perspective.  It comes at a time, without new security assistance
deliveries from the United States, when Ukrainian forces are rationing
out their bullets and artillery shells and when they are having to make
difficult decisions on the battlefield just about holding on to key
terrain. 

Consider what Ukraine is up against.  Russia is receiving arms and
ammunition from Iran and North Korea.  We also remain concerned about
the support that PRC companies are providing to the Russian defense
industrial base.  Meanwhile, the U.S. House of Representatives is
leaving Ukraine to fend for themselves. 

Do not think for a moment that Vladimir Putin isn’t capitalizing on all
of this.  Yep, he’s been deepening his relationship with Iran now for
many months, but the potential pursuit of ballistic missiles with a
range and destructive power that they could bring is further evidence
that he believes Congress will not act.  He clearly believes now is his
best chance to bring Ukraine to its knees, that now is the time to
strike deeper behind their lines, destroying military bases and military
units and their defense industry.  He’s counting on the West giving up
and on Ukraine being left to fend for itself.  And the regime in Tehran
is only too happy to oblige. 

So the question for Congress is: What are we willing to oblige?  Are
House Republicans willing to see Ukraine fall to Russia?  Are House
Republicans willing to stand aside while Iran deepens its partnership
with Russia and actively participates in the killing of Ukrainians and
the further destruction of that country?  Are House Republicans willing
to hand Putin and the Supreme Leader such a victory?  Because that’s
what this comes down to.  You can’t say that you believe in American
leadership and American strength and American national defense and then
embolden two leaders who are actively working to undermine those
things. 

We need the supplemental bill passed now.  With each passing day, the
Ukrainian frontlines are growing thinner and our own national security
is increasingly being threatened.  Iran stands with Russia.  We need to
stand with Ukraine. 

And let’s be clear: Iran is not helping Russia for free.  In return for
Iran’s support, Russia has been offering Tehran unprecedented defense
cooperation.  So, in total, Iran is seeking billions of dollars’ worth
of military equipment from Russia.  This will increase the threat posed
by Iran not only to the United States, but to our partners throughout
the Middle East region. 

And with that, I’m happy to take some questions.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  We’ll go to Zeke Miller from the Associated
Press.

Q    Thanks, John.  I was hoping you could provide us an update on Brett
McGurk’s travels in Cairo and Israel today, potentially to Paris
tomorrow.  Any deliverables or outcomes of that meeting?

Separately, do you have any details — has the NSC been briefed or in
contact regarding these reported cell outages or any reason to believe
that they may be the result of any sort of foreign malign activity?

And then lastly, I was hoping you might be able to address reports that
Estonia has disrupted a plot of some — they claim to be Russian
operatives who’ve tried to destabilize the situation there.  And is
there any planned response on Russia as a result of that?  Thank you.

MR. KIRBY:  Thanks, Zeke.  There’s a lot there.

So, on Brett: Brett had a good couple of hours with counterparts in
Cairo yesterday.  Today in Israel, he met

independently with Prime Minister Netanyahu.  He also met with Defense
Minister Gallant, as well as other members of the war cabinet, including
their leaders from Israel’s intelligence agency.

He is, as we speak, meeting with family members of the American
hostages.  We have not gotten a full readout of his discussions yet. 
He’s, obviously, actively engaged right now.  So he’s, again, doing a
very important meeting with the hostage families. 

But the initial indications we’re getting from Brett are these
discussions are going well.  They are constructive.  He is, obviously,
keenly focused on trying to see if we can’t cement a hostage deal for an
extended pause to get all of those hostages home where they belong and
get a reduction in the violence so that we can get more humanitarian
assistance. 

And obviously, nothing is done until everything is done, and not
everything is done in that regard.  But Brett is working really hard on
that.  And he’s also talking to the war cabinet, too, about their
thinking on Rafah.

So, pretty substantive set of meetings for him, and they’re ongoing. 
And that’s about the best I can give you for where we are right now. 

On the AT&T issue, or the cellular network issue: As I understand it,
Zeke, the FCC has been in touch with AT&T, and those conversations are
ongoing, and they’re trying to kind of figure out what exactly happened
here.

I don’t think all networks have been restored, but as my understanding
is that everybody but AT&T is back up and running completely right now.

I also can tell you that DHS and the FBI are looking into this as well,
working with the tech industry, these network providers, to see what we
can do from a federal perspective to lend hand to their investigative
efforts to figure out what happened here. 

But the bottom line is, Zeke, we don’t have all the answers to that.  I
mean, this just happened earlier today.  And so, we’re working very hard
to see if we can get to ground truth of exactly what happened, not to
mention I know folks in the industry are working hard to get restoration
of services to those that are still without those services. 

You know, as you mentioned — Poland and Estonia.  They just recently
announced the arrest of individuals that had been planning sabotage
activities on what is believed to be on behalf of Russia’s security
services.  And we’re certainly concerned by these activities.  But we
obviously commend our Polish and Estonian law enforcement colleagues for
taking these actions and for doing it swiftly and effectively. 

We believe that these arrests send a very clear message that individuals
who participate in Russian sabotage activities inside Europe are going
to be held to account.  And again, we applaud the work being done by law
enforcement in both Poland and Estonia to get to that.

MODERATOR:  Next up, we’ll go to Gabe Gutierrez.  You should be able to
unmute yourself.

Q    Hey there.  Thanks so much for doing this.  John, I have a few. 

First of all, I want to get your reaction to the Kremlin saying that
President Biden was trying to appear as a “Hollywood cowboy” following
his remarks last night calling Vladimir Putin a “crazy SOB.” 

And then, I also want to ask about Aleksey Navalny.  His mother now
saying that Russian authorities are trying to blackmail her to avoid a
large memorial service.  She says she saw her son’s body.  I want to get
your reaction to that. 

And then, finally, on that dual national that is being detained in
Russia, her boyfriend now says she went over there in early January. 
Her employer says she donated $51 to a Ukrainian charity.  What is the
NSC tracking regarding that case?  And is it acceptable that she’s being
detained for treason?

MR. KIRBY:  Obviously, I’m limited, Gabe, as to what I can talk about
when it comes to campaign comments.  But what I’ll say is — and you’ve
heard this from — you’ve heard from the President throughout his trip —
we have serious national security concerns, particularly where it comes
— when it comes to Russia on a range of issues, from what they’re doing
in Ukraine to, of course, this potential development of an
anti-satellite capability, to this burgeoning relationship with Iran,
which I just spent quite a bit of time in the opening statement talking
about, and other efforts that they are effecting to try to undermine the
international order that we and our allies built after World War Two. 

And the President is focused keenly on those national security
interests.  And when he speaks about the threats and the challenges
coming from Vladimir Putin and from Russia, he speaks not only from a
visceral sense of the seriousness of the danger, but also from the
perspective of a man who has been involved in foreign policy for the
vast majority of his public service.  And he knows what he’s talking
about.  He knows these leaders; he knows these challenges.  And he
speaks about them plainly and directly, because that is exactly how we
need to look at the threat posed by Russia: plainly, directly,
transparently.  And that’s what he’s doing. 

And while he’s out there talking about the threats and challenges from
Russia, the House Republicans are on recess.  While he’s out there
talking about what we need to counter — what Russia is doing with Iran,
what Russia is doing in Ukraine, what Russia is doing elsewhere, in
cyberspace and in space — the House Republicans are doing nothing.  And
that’s what we’re focused on. 

Now, I can’t confirm the reports of blackmail, that you mentioned, to
the mother of Aleksey Navalny.  I mean, I’ve seen the reporting on that,
but we’re not in a position to confirm that it’s true.  Nevertheless,
this is the man’s mother.  It’s not enough that she gets to see the body
of her son; she should be able to collect the body of her son so that
she can properly memorialize her son and her son’s bravery and courage
and service, and do all the things that any mother would want to do for
a son lost in such a tragic way. 

The Russians need to give her back her son, and they need to answer for
what befell — specifically what befell Mr. Navalny, and ato- — and
acknowledge that they, in fact, are responsible for his demise.

I don’t have anything additional on the dual national that was arrested
in Russia.  Again, we’re somewhat limited as to what we can talk about
here, out of privacy concerns.  But I can tell you that we’re watching
this very, very closely.  Our embassy in Moscow is working very hard to
see what they can do in terms of getting more information here.  We are
deeply concerned about this.  But again, because of privacy concerns,
I’m limited to how much more I can offer.

MODERATOR:  Thanks.  Next up, we’ll go to Aurelia End.  You should be
able to unmute yourself.

Q    Hi, thanks.  Thanks for taking my question.  John, can you confirm
— first question — that the President is endorsing Mark Rutte as next
boss of NATO?

And second question: If you could give us not a preview but tell us
something about the major sanctions package that we’re awaiting
tomorrow.  Thanks.

MR. KIRBY:  What I can tell you on Mr. Rutte is that the United States
has made it clear to our Allies, our NATO Allies, that we believe Mr.
Rutte would be an excellent Secretary General for NATO.

And I’m afraid I’m not going to be able to go into more detail about the
sanctions package that you can expect us to announce tomorrow.  As you
know, we never get ahead — it’s just policy that we never, for obvious
reasons, get ahead of specific entities that are going to be sanctioned
and/or individuals that will be included in that regime.

I would point you to the Treasury Department.  And I understand that
they’ll have more to say about this.  But we’re not going to get ahead
of that.

MODERATOR:  Next up, we’ll go to Michael Gordon.  You should be able to
unmute yourself.

Q    John, my question is: Since, as you pointed out, North Korea is
providing ballistic missiles to Russia for use in Ukraine, and Iran may
be moving to do so, why has the Biden administration not decided to
provide longer-range 300-kilometer unitary round ATACMs to Ukraine as a
counter to the systems that you’re concerned about?  The Pentagon still
has some drawdown authority, and it has over a thousand of these
systems.  What’s the thinking behind that? 

And you talk about responding to such actions with sanctions, but why
not respond with — why wouldn’t providing such ATACM systems be a useful
counter?

MR. KIRBY:  Well, the first thing I’d say, Michael, is we have responded
with a whole hell of a lot more than sanctions over the last two years. 
The United States continues to lead the world in security assistance to
Ukraine, although we are now not able to provide that security
assistance without the supplemental funding.  But prior to Congress
failing to do its job, we were leading the world in contributions across
a range of systems — from short, medium, to long range — and of course,
artillery ammunition, ground vehicles, armored vehicles, you name it. 

So I simply refuse to accept the premise that we’ve only relied on
sanctions to increase the pressure on Russia in terms of their fighting
on the ground in Ukraine. 

The second thing I’d say is: We have provided a version of ATACMs.  As
you know, the APAMs have been provided to Ukraine, and they have used
them to good effect. 

And the third thing I’d say is: We never took ATACMs off the table. 
They are still part and parcel of the discussions that we’ve been having
with Ukraine.  Ukraine does have the ability and has been provided
similarly long-range capabilities by other countries, and we are still
having conversations with the Ukrainians about the longer form —
longer-range version of ATACMs.  Nobody has taken that off the table. 

And you mentioned the drawdown authority.  Yes, there’s existing
drawdown authority.  But as I mentioned a couple of days ago, there’s no
replenishment authority that goes with it.  And that’s critical for our
own needs, for our own national security requirements.  That
replenishment authority is not something to just be blown off.  It very
much and should factor prominently in the drawdown packages that we have
and hopefully will be able to provide Ukraine in the future, because it
affects our own national security by the ability to replenish our own
stocks. 

So I guess that’s where I’ll leave it.

Q    Okay.

MODERATOR:  Thanks.  Next up, we’ll go to the line of James Rosen.  You
should be able to unmute yourself.

Q    Thank you.  Sean and Admiral Kirby, thank you both.  I have two
questions.  One on Russia/Ukraine, the other on Israel/ Hamas. 

And to the delight of my listeners and my many critics, the second
question will be much shorter than the first.

On Russia/Ukraine, this situation with the supplemental spending package
brings to mind for me the words of the late Henry Kissinger, who once
said of Chile, “I don’t see why we need to stand by and watch a country
go communist due to the irresponsibility of its people.” 

For nearly six months now, President Biden and his top aides, you
included, have warned that the security of the United States and its
allies, indeed the stability of the global geopolitical order, will be
severely compromised, perhaps irreparably damaged, if U.S. funding for
Ukraine is not swiftly renewed. 

So if the consequences of such inaction pose such an existential threat
to the safety and security of the United States and the Western
alliance, why is President Biden, by his own account, standing by and
allowing the irresponsibility of a small faction of the U.S. Congress to
place the entire world order in such jeopardy?  Shouldn’t he be finding
some other way, overt or covert, to get Ukraine what it needs?

MR. KIRBY:  Thanks.  I mean, I kind of addressed this before.  And this
kind of gets a little bit to Michael Gordon’s question a little bit
ago.  There’s no magic pot of money here.  You know, supporting Ukraine
requires resources, resources that we do not have right now.  And we
have helped support Ukraine to a fare-thee-well over the last two
years.  We absolutely have to make sure that, in so doing, we don’t
sacrifice our own national security and that we still have sufficient
stocks and inventory of weapons and systems to defend global interests
around the world. 

Now, that’s a tough balance to strike, and we’ve been striking it quite
well over the last two years with the support of Congress.  We need
Congress to act.  We cannot just wish this money into existence.  We
cannot just find it under a couch cushion.  We absolutely need Congress
to put forward legislative funding in order for us to continue to
support Ukraine. 

And the idea — the notion that we’re just sitting back on our hands
doing nothing is — simply flies in the face of the facts.  We have been
working diligently with members of Congress, both sides of the aisle,
both chambers, to try to get this funding through.  The President
submitted that supplemental funding back in August, for crying out
loud.  And here we are in February, and the House Republicans decided to
go on vacation. 

So we’re working really, really hard.  We’re doing everything we can to
get this over the finish line.  But ultimately, you know, it requires a
co-equal branch of government, the legislature, Congress, to legislate
this money so that we can spend it not only for Ukraine and for
Ukrainian soldiers, but for our own national security. 

Q    So just as a follow-up on this quickly, before I advance to the
Israel/Hamas question: I guess what you’re saying is we need for the
American people to understand and we need our allies to understand that
the President is willing to allow the legalities here to override the
security exigencies.

MR. KIRBY:  The counter to what you’re suggesting is that we should
somehow send a message to the American people and to our allies that we
don’t believe in the rule of law, that we don’t believe in the
importance of having appropriated funding to support our national
security needs. 

I mean, my goodness, the Constitution is built on that whole
foundation.  And the President believes in the power of the
Constitution; he believes in the power of a co-equal branch of
government, in the Congress.  And in working with the Congress, he’s got
a lot of experience doing that. 

It matters how you do things, not just what you do.  And the President
is going to continue to obey the law and to work with Congress on
establishing law, legislation — funding, in this case — that meets our
national security needs.

Q    On the Mideast: So that the context and the stakes should be
sufficiently clear for all to see, is the war between Israel and Hamas
properly viewed as one between the forces of good and the forces of
evil?

MR. KIRBY:  I think there’s no question that Hamas is evil.  I don’t
even think that that’s up for debate.  I mean, look at what they did on
the 7th of October.  Read — please, go read.  I say this all the time,
but I encourage — go read their 2017 manifesto and the one that they put
out about 10 years before that.  You can’t read that manifesto and not
think that this is a terrorist organization with truly genocidal
inclinations against Israel and the Israeli people.  And what they did
on the 7th of October, you cannot look at anything from that day and not
come away believing that this group is evil.

MODERATOR:  Next up, we’ll go to the line of Laura Kelly.  You should be
able to unmute yourself.

We don’t seem to have Laura.  We’ll go to the line of Trudy Rubin.

Q    Hi.  Thanks, John.  I just want to follow up on Michael Gordon’s
question.  We not only have stocks of long-range ATACMs, but also
Lockheed Martin has an active production line and exported 500 last
year, including to places like Morocco. 

The Ukrainians feel that these weapons are essential right now,
especially in the area where they’re having success in the Black Sea and
Crimea. 

So, again, I want to ask, why are we still only keeping this issue on
the table?  For the last year, there have been repeated stories that
ATACMs were going to be sent, and then all that was sent was the
shorter-range APAMs with cluster munitions warheads.

So what is the problem with sending Ukraine the weapon that it is even
now consistently saying it desperately needs?

MR. KIRBY:  Well, first of all, Trudy, it’s great to hear your voice. 
It’s been a long time since we spoke.  And I’m glad you jumped on the
gaggle today.  It’s good to hear from you. 

And again, a fair question.  It was a fair question when Michael asked
it. 

And what I can tell you is, again, we have had and will continue to have
conversations with the Ukrainians about what they need.  Clearly, they
need — right now, they need to focus on air defense systems, as Russia
is trying to take advantage of this lull in Western support to overcome
— to force the Ukrainians to use their air defense systems and also to
target their defense industrial base. 

But we recognize that medium- and long-range capabilities are important
to Ukraine.  As I said, they are getting some from other countries as
well.  They did get a shorter version, APAMs, from us, as you rightly
pointed out. 

And again, we’re actively talking to them about their needs going
forward.  We have not taken ATACMs off the table, but I just don’t have
a decision to speak to today or — and I certainly wouldn’t get into the
decision-making process about that. 

Regardless, right now, we’re hamstrung.  We can’t even send Ukraine
artillery shells.  So while we still talk to them about their needs —
and as I said, ATACMs is not off the table from a philosophical
perspective — we’re hamstrung about what we can send them writ large,
anything, because we don’t have additional supplemental funding from
Congress.

MODERATOR:  Next up, we’ll go to the line of Jennifer Jacobs.

Q    Hey, John.  Back on that cellphone outages again, can you say have
any government communications been disrupted because of the outages? 

And then also, FirstNet was impacted.  So can you say if they can still
do what it’s supposed to do at this point, which is sustain
communications for first responders?

And then one other question on Navalny.  Is the President meeting with
his family members today, can you say?  Thank you very much.

MR. KIRBY:  As I understand it, JJ, there was some impact to commerce,
but I don’t know the extent of that.  I don’t think it was crippling,
but there was some impact to commerce.  I don’t know about the Earthnet.

I’m sorry, and you had another question on this as well.

Q    On FirstNet, can it still do its mission, which is to sustain
communications for first responders?

And then, on Navalny, did you say — is the President meeting with his
wife and daughter today?

MR. KIRBY:  Okay.  Yeah, no, you said — I thought you said Earthnet. 
But FirstNet.  So, FirstNet, which does come under Congress, was the
only government equity that was impacted.  That’s what I was referring
to.  I’m sorry.  I thought you said Earthnet.

And it’s our understanding that it has now been fully restored,
FirstNet, as a nationwide public safety network.  So,

yes, it’s been — it was impacted, and it’s my understanding that — our
understanding that it’s been fully restored. 

And as for the President, his schedule today, I don’t have anything to
offer or confirm today.  Obviously, we continue to

urge Russia to do what’s right by the family, release his body, come
clean on the specific manner of death, and hold themselves responsible. 
We certainly hold them responsible. 

But I don’t have anything on the President’s schedule to speak to right
now.

MODERATOR:  Thanks.  Next up, we’ll go to Humeyra.  You should be able
to unmute yourself.

Q    Hello, hi.  Thank you, Admiral, for doing this.  You talked about
Brett’s meetings.  And I’m wondering if the Israelis have presented
their humanitarian and military strategy to you about — to him — about
Rafah.  

And based on his meetings, can you confirm that — this Paris meeting
tomorrow with Bill Burns, (inaudible) chiefs of Israel, Egypt, and
Qatari prime minister on hostage talks?  Is that happening?

And again, based on Brett’s conversations, yesterday Benny Gantz talked
about early promising signs in the hostage talks.  Do you share those
promising signs?  Thank you.

MR. KIRBY:  Okay, lots there.

I know that Brett had a chance to meet with the war cabinet.  And as I
said earlier, he absolutely was going to ask them about their plans for
Rafah, where they were.  I am still, as I sit here with you today, not
aware of any plan that’s been

shared with us, any specific plan that’s been shared with us.  But I
know that Brett was absolutely going to talk to them about sort of where
they were in the thinking on that. 

And nothing has changed about our view that any operation in Rafah,
without due consideration and a credible, executable plan for the safety
and security of the more than a million Palestinians that are seeking
refuge in Rafah, would be a disaster.  We would not support that. 

But again, I don’t want to get ahead of where Brett’s conversations
are.  As I said, he’s meeting with the families of American hostages
right now.  And we just haven’t had a chance to check in with him and
get, sort of, a full readout of

what he discussed in his meetings with the war cabinet. 

On the reports about a Paris meeting, I cannot confirm those reports
other than to tell you that we remain fully committed to doing
everything we can to get a hostage deal in place and an extended pause,
a reduction in the violence, an increase in humanitarian assistance. 
And that’s being worked, of course, by Brett, who is, again, in Israel
today.  It has continually been a focus of our CIA Director, Bill Burns,
and his efforts.  And he continues to have conversations with

interlocutors about that.  And obviously, it’s top of mind of President
Biden and the entire National Security Council team. 

So I can’t confirm the specific reports about Paris, but I can
absolutely reassure you that discussions are ongoing, they are active,
and as I said earlier, we believe they’ve been constructive. 

And I think I missed another question in there.

Q    Hi.  Thanks for that.  No, it was — I was asking whether you share
Benny Gantz’s comment that there were early promising signs about the
hostage deal.  I’m asking this specifically because there is little time
left for Ramadan, which is March the 10th.  So just wondering if the
U.S. shares that optimism. 

MR. KIRBY:  I would just leave it the way I just did.  You know, talks
have been ongoing, they’ve been active, and we believe they’ve been
constructive.

MODERATOR:  We have time for a couple more.  Next up, we’ll go to Zolan
Kanno-Youngs.  You should be able to unmute yourself.

Q    Hey, thanks for the opportunity to ask a question.  Thanks, John. 

I wanted to ask about this report that my colleagues just put out on
this inquiry, that was eventually dropped, into potential ties between
allies of President Andres Manuel López Obrador and cartel affiliates. 
Did the White House know about this inquiry?  Has the administration
reached out to Mexico to discuss this inquiry, either before the report
today or after?

And then, just more broadly, these allegations about potential ties to
the cartel, how will this impact the relationship between the Biden
administration and the AMLO administration?  Thanks.

MR. KIRBY:  As I think the Department of Justice has already made clear,
there is no investigation into President López Obrador.  And they at DOJ
would have the responsibility to review any allegations.  So I’d have to
point you to DOJ on that.

And then, separate and distinct from that discussion, obviously, we
continue to work with Mr. López Obrador’s administration to do what we
can to deal with this unprecedented migration in the hemisphere and the
situation at the border, which continues to be a key focus for President
Biden and for this administration.  Another reason why we were hopeful
about that Senate deal to pass the supplemental funding, which included
additional funds for security at the border. 

But again, I’d have to point you back to DOJ for anything specific.  And
as they’ve already said on the record, there is no investigation into
President López Obrador.

MODERATOR:  Next up for our last question, we’ll go to the line of
Edward Lawrence.  You should be able to unmute yourself.

Q    Yeah.  Thanks, Sean.  Thanks, John, for doing this.  I just wanted
to press you a little bit on the AT&T outage.  Was there any chatter
going into this — or going after a cellphone or a cell service by state
actors or non-state actors?  And any heightened awareness, and that’s
the reason the FBI and DHS are looking into this?

MR. KIRBY:  And I truly don’t know the answer to that question.  I mean,
I’m not aware of any chatter prior to the outage.  But again, that’s why
DHS and the FBI want to look at this and see what exactly happened. 
Again, it’s good that the vast majority of customers have had their
service restored.  It’s good that FirstNet is back up and running.

But obviously, we got to do spadework to figure out what happened here. 
But I just don’t have any intelligence to share today about any
indications we had before it happened from actors external to the United
States or to the government. 

We’re going to look at this really hard.  We’re going to work with
industry to see what we can find out. 

But right now, we’re being told that AT&T has no reason to think that
this was a cybersecurity incident.  But again, I want to be careful — we
won’t know until an investigation has been completed.  And obviously,
we’re going to work from the federal level to assist the network
providers in doing that to the best that we can.

MODERATOR:  Thanks, everyone.  That’s all the time we have for today. 
We’ll do this again soon.  Hope you have a good rest of your day. 
Thanks. 

MR. KIRBY:  Thanks, everybody.

2:15 P.M. EST
