---
date: '2024-02-09'
modified_time: 2024-02-09 18:16:29-05:00
published_time: 2024-02-09 18:16:28-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/02/09/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-and-spokesman-for-the-white-house-counsels-office-ian-sams-february-9-2024/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre and Spokesman for the\
  \ White\_House Counsel\u2019s Office Ian Sams, February 9,\_2024"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

1:40 P.M. EST

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Good afternoon, everyone.

Q Good afternoon.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I have a couple things at the top, and then I’ll hand
it over to our guest today.

Today, the Vice President and the White House Office of Gun Violence
Prevention are hosting community violence intervention leaders from
across the country to recognize their efforts in reducing and preventing
violence — (a reporter sneezes) — and ultimately saving lives. God bless
you.

The event is a culmination of a week of activities host \[hosted\] by
the Office of Gun Violence Prevention for Community Violence Awareness
Week.

Community violence intervention programs are a key piece of the
President’s Safer America Plan and have been shown to reduce violence by
as much as 50 percent. That’s why the Biden-Harris administration
continues to make major investments in community violence intervention,
and other proven solutions to end the epidemic of gun violence.

The President’s American Rescue Plan provided over $15 billion to
prevent crime and promote public safety, while the Bipartisan Safer
Community Act provides $250 million in funding for community-based
violence prevention initiatives.

These actions are reducing crime and saving lives nationwide, with
homicides and gun violence rates on the decline in 2023.

We will continue to work to protect American communities from this
senseless violence while calling on Congress to do its job and take
further action to implement commonsense gun safety measures.

And finally, I also want to share a brief readout from a recent visit by
— by senior U.S. officials to Guyana, Colombia, and also Mexico.

Principal Deputy National Security Advisor Jon Fi- — Finer traveled to
Guyana and Colombia February 4th and 5th, which followed a series of
other high-level U.S. visits.

In Guyana, he met with President Ali and Caribbean Community — CARICOM —
Secretary-General Dr. Carla Barnett to reaffirm U.S. support to Guyana’s
sovereignty, to advance economic and security cooperation, and to
discuss CARICOM’s priorities for their February 25th meeting. Haiti and
Venezuela figured prominently in these discussions, as did Guyana’s
priorities on the United Nations Security Council.

In Colombia, we issued a joint statement following Mr. Finer’s meeting
with President Gustavo Petro that — that covered financing for
sustainable infrastructure under President Biden’s Americas Partnership
for Economic Prosperity initiative, as well as ongoing cooperation on
security and migration. The statement reaffirmed support for competitive
and inclusive elections in Venezuela and implementation of the Barbados
Agreement between representatives of Nicolás Maduro and the Uni- —
Unitaria Platform.

Mr. Finer expressed appreciation for Colombia’s continued effort to
promote dialogue but also underscored the need for the international
community to support an electoral process free of harassment and
intimidation, where all candidates are eligible to run for office.

Turning to Mexico for a second. White House Homeland Security Advisor
Dr. Sherwood-Randol- — -Randall led an interagency delegation to Mexico
February 6th and the — and 7th. She engaged in a wide-rang- — -ranging
discussion with President — President AMLO. And then, separately, our
delegation met with Mes- — Mexico’s security cabinet — both focused on
bilateral and regional issues, including sustained cooperation on
migration and joint efforts to promote economic opportunity and
development in the Americas.

During the fourth meeting of the Trilateral Fentanyl Committee —
established by President Biden, President AMLO, and the Prime Minis- —
Prime Minister Trudeau — the United States, Mexico, and Canada agreed to
a 10 joint actions to counter the trafficking of illicit synthetic
drugs, including fentanyl, and firearms in North America. These are
contin- — these are outlined in our joint statement that was issued
yesterday.

On February 7th, Treasury des- — designated one of the — one of
Ecuador’s most violent gangs and its leader for fueling the recent surge
of violence in Ecuador. The sanctions are just one part of the
significant assistance we are providing to our Ecuadorian partners as
they confront transnational organized crime and illicit narcotics.

Finally, allow me to once again pay respect for the people of Chile as
they mourn the loss of former President Sebastián Piñera. Our prayers
also go out to the — to all in Chile who lost loved ones to the
wildfires and forced thousands to leave their homes.

The United States is supporting firefighters by deploying technical
staff, by providing satellite imagery, and offering funds to the
purchasing fi- — to purchasing firefighting equipment. And we stand
ready to do more.

With that, thank you for your patience. I will turn things over to my
colleague, Ian Sams, from the White House Counsel’s Office.

Ian.

MR. SAMS: Thank you, Karine. Good to see everybody.

Q Thank you for coming.

MR. SAMS: Sure. Thanks.

I want to start by talking about a few things that I think are important
for you all to hear and for the American people to hear.

The President spoke powerfully about this last night. After a long
investigation that turned over every stone and explored every theory,
the special counsel decided that there was no case there.

Notably, he said this would be true whether President Biden was
president or a private citizen.

The special counsel’s assignment when he was appointed was to determine
whether any criminal conduct occurred. He found it didn’t. That was the
finding.

The case is closed.

I want to read you something from none other than Ken Starr — who most
people in this room will remember is the independent counsel who
investigated former President Clinton. After that investigation, here is
what he said to Congress: Quote, “What I see the conclusion as being is
just a determination that no criminal charges would be brought. Period.
Full stop. That is it. It is all over at that stage,” end quote.

That rings true here.

The Special Counsel report goes on at length about the President’s
unprecedented cooperation in this case. I want to share a few things
about that because I think it’s very important.

One, when the classified documents were found, it was self-reported. The
President directed his team to ensure that any classified documents were
returned immediately.

Why did he do that? Because the President takes classified information
seriously. He always has. He did not intentionally take classified
documents. He understands documents like that belong with the
government. He never, never made any attempt to obstruct.

Two, he took unprecedented action to get the special counsel what he
needed.

He opened up every room in his family home and his beach house for
comprehensive FBI searches — a first time in history. He sat for two
days of interviews — an interview that, I’ll add — and the President
talked about this last night — took place the day after the brutal
attack on Israel. The President was managing an intensive international
crisis. You just heard the Vice President talk about this.

He answered dozens of follow-up questions to the special counsel in
writing.

Three, he didn’t exert executive privilege over any contents of the
report. He was transparent. He had nothing to hide. There was a long,
intensive, and, in many ways, yes, excessive investigation.

But for context, you should all remind — remember, in the case of former
Vice President Mike Pence — who had a very, very similar incident occur
right after President Biden — the case was closed within a few months.
It was a brief, one-page letter to Mike Pence.

But in this case, there was a 15-month investigation. The Special
Counsel interviewed 150 witnesses. He sought and obtained 7 million
pages of documents, down to emails about moving trucks during the
transition in 2016 and 2017. He spent more than three and a half million
taxpayer dollars exploring every possible theory that he could.

And what was the result? He reached the inevitable conclusion based on
the facts and the evidence that there was no case here.

And this is important to think about in context of how this report is
being viewed and, by many of you, being covered. This is the first
special counsel investigation ever that hasn’t indicted anyone. Every
theory was explored. But the facts and the evidence disputed them. The
decision was that there was no case to be made.

In that reality, we also need to talk about the environment that we are
in. For the past few years, Republicans in Congress and elsewhere have
been attacking prosecutors who aren’t doing what Republicans want
politically. They have made up claims of a two-tiered system of justice
between Republicans and Democrats. They have denigrated the rule of law
for political purposes.

That reality creates a ton of pressure. And in that pressurized
political environment, when the inevitable conclusion is that the facts
and the evidence don’t support any charges, you’re left to wonder why
this report spends time making gratuitous and inappropriate criticisms
of the President.

Over the past 24 hours, we’ve actually seen legal experts and former
prosecutors come out and give their analysis. Former Attorney General
Eric Holder said the report, quote, “contains way too many gratuitous
remarks and is flatly inconsistent with longstanding DOJ traditions.”

The former Acting FBI Director said he had overseen many cases like
this, and, quote, “You have — you have to have explicit evidence of
willful retention of those documents, and that is just not present in
this case.”

The former FBI General Counsel, who I’ll add is als- — was also lead
prosecutor in the Special Counsel Mueller investigation, said, it was,
quote, “exactly what you’re not supposed to do, which is putting your
thumb on the scale that could have political repercussions.”

That’s the assessment of seasoned professional law enforcement officials
and prosecutors with deep experience at the Department of Justice.

Unfortunately, the gratuitous remarks that the former Attorney General
talked about have naturally caught headlines and all of your attention.
They’re wrong, and they’re inaccurate. And they obscure a very simple
truth that I want to repeat one last time, since I know it’s is hard to
wade through 400 full pages.

One, the report lays out example after example of how the President did
not willfully take classified documents. The report lays out how the
President did not share classified documents with anyone. The report
lays out how the President did not knowingly share classified
information with anyone.

On page 2, which I know you all read, the report argues the President
willfully retained materials. But buried way later, on page 215, the
report says, and I quote, “there is in fact a shortage of evidence on
these points.” Two hundred pages later.

Put simply, this case is closed because the facts and the evidence don’t
support the theories here. The gratuitous comments that respected
experts saying is out of line are inappropriate. And they shouldn’t
distract from the fact that the case is closed, and the facts and
evidence show that they reached the right conclusion.

With that, I’m happy to take questions.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Go ahead, Aamer.

Q Just a couple of housekeeping. When and whom was the President briefed
about on the contents of the report?

MR. SAMS: The President was briefed by his lawyers.

Q And, second, the President — and as you mentioned, again, you thought
some of the characterizations were gratuitous. Does the President still
have confidence in Merrick Garland after selecting Hur to be put in this
position?

MR. SAMS: The President spoke this last night. I think — I can’t
remember which of you asked him what his thoughts were on the
appointment of the special counsel. And he answered that, I think,
thoughtfully and powerfully. And I don’t really have anything to add
beyond what the President said.

Q And just finally, does the President support the release of the entire
transcript of his interview to put to rest some of these things that you
think are being overlooked?

MR. SAMS: And it’s a reasonable question. I think that it’s important to
know that we’re dealing with classified materials in this conversation.
There are classification issues there. I don’t have any announcement on,
you know, releasing anything today.

But it’s a reasonable question, and there were classified stuff, and
we’ll have to work through all that.

Q So, but once you can work through, like, say, a redacted version,
would the President support the release, as long as you can obviously
keep what needs to be kept secret secret?

MR. SAMS: Well, we’ll take a look at that and — and make a
determination.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Go ahead, Justin.

Q Thanks, Ian. Two questions. First, you said in the topper that the
President takes classified information seriously, and the President said
last night that he never discussed classified material with anyone. But
the special counsel’s report said that on three different occasions, he
did discuss it with his ghostwriter.

I understand it didn’t meet the bar for prosecution. But how do you
reconcile the President’s statement with what’s in the report?

MR. SAMS: Sure. Well, if you read the full report, it actually gets into
each of those three instances. I think Justin rightly points out that
we’re talking about three instances out of two hundred and, you know,
fifty pages of evidence that they’re talking about criticizing. I think
it’s important to look at those three examples.

Two of them are his own notes to himself in his personal diary that he
was reading about to his ghostwriter for his memoir — for a memoir about
his life after his son Beau died. And he was reading these passages that
he had written to himself to share information with him, and he took
pains — and the report lays this out — to express how sensitive some of
the information was and that we should be careful with it. And of those
two passages from his diaries that he talked about with his ghostwriter
— weren’t in the book. There’s no classified information in the book.
And so — and so, I want to just make that point.

And the second is there’s a — kind of an allegation of, you know,
willfully taking a classified document that he talked about with his
ghostwriter. That’s false. As the President talked about last night, he
was, again, talking about a handwritten letter that he had sent to
President Obama and faxed to him about the Afghanistan troop surge.

These are — these are the President’s own personal writings — you know,
the President’s own diary notes to himself.

And I think there’s an important thing to think about here. There’s
plenty of history- — historical analogues, the most notable of which is
Ronald Reagan — President Reagan — whose diaries very famously became a
subject of a lot of attention in the country. The Justice Department
knew that President Reagan’s diaries had classified information in them
— knew it at the time.

He took those diaries home. He read those diaries to people. He shared
the actual physical copy of the — of the — of the diaries — which this
special counsel report talks about Joe Biden never even gave custody of
his notebooks to anybody. And — and they never even asked for those
diaries back, and they never launched an investigation.

And why is that? It’s because historically, going back to the beginning
of the country, presidents keep diaries. They — we should want our
presidents to be thoughtful and deliberative about the decisions that
they make on the most consequential issues of our time. And we have — we
have entrusted presidents to be safekeepers of this information and to —

And we have expressed, you know, great gratitude, including many of you
in the press, when — when presidents share, through books and other
things, insights into their thinking and decision-making and historical
context.

And so, I think it’s lost in the shuffle of all this that the President
did what all of his predecessors had done, which was take notes for
himself, keep a diary of his own daily life so that he could think back
on these big moments of — of the time. And so, you know, those are —
that’s important to know about this allegation —

Q Is the —

MR. SAMS: — that there was —

Q Is —

MR. SAMS: — that there was sharing of classified information.

Q Right. Is your contention that just because the President rewrote
classified material in his own words and then shared it with somebody
who didn’t have the security clearance for it that it was okay?

MR. SAMS: Well, let’s look at the report. I mean, we talked a little — a
lot about this report. I understand it’s long — 400 pages. I — you know,
I’m not sure how many people in this room have read the entire thing.

Page 3, which I think is what everybody is asking about — and
understandably — says, quote, “Mr. Biden shared information, including
some classified information, with his ghostwriter.” Right? But if you go
to page 248, the report says, quote, “We conclude that the evidence does
not establish that Mr. Biden willfully disclosed national defense
information to his writing assistant.” That’s in the report. That’s the
conclusion that was made based on the evidence.

And I — there’s something else I want to add about this, because it’s
gone — we’ve gone back and forth. On page 1 of the report, it says, “The
President willfully retained classified-marked documents relating to
Afghanistan.” But on page 215 of the report, it says, quote, “There is,
in fact, a shortage of evidence on these points.”

On page 5 of the report — everybody read that — first few pages — it
says, quote, “Mr. Biden’s memory was significantly limited.” But here’s
something that everybody should make sure that they see: Elsewhere in
the report, he says, quote, “We expect the evidence of Mr. Biden’s state
of mind to be compelling,” pointing to him providing, quote, “clear and
forceful testimony.” That’s his comments on his state of mind later in
the report.

And so, I think it’s important to kind of take the report in its
totality and understand that, in that report, the facts and evidence
refute the theories that are floated that they explored.

Q I think maybe we disagree on if he should have used the word
“willfully” last night. But there’s one other thing I wanted to ask you
about, which was that his attorneys said that they were going to work on
the process to make sure that none of this happens again.

MR. SAMS: Yeah.

Q Obviously, there’s the potential that this administration has less
than a year left. So, I’m wondering if you could detail what —

MR. SAMS: Don’t say that.

Q — (laughs) — what the timeline is on that, what you guys are
considering for — for that type of process.

MR. SAMS: That’s a great question. I think that something that this
issue a year ago brought to light is that this is a, unfortunately, very
common occurrence in our country. The National Archives has talked about
how 80 different libraries and collections just in the last decade or so
have called and said, “Oh, we found classified documents in these
papers.” And they have a process that you’re supposed to turn those back
in.

But then, you know, we had the issue with President Biden. Immediately
after that, we had the issue with Vice President Pence. And I think it’s
important to understand that this is a common occurrence, and the
President thinks that we should fix it.

Like, he gave all these documents back. He knew he did not — that these
governments should be in possession — that the government should be in
possession of these documents.

And so, what we’re going to do is the President is going to appoint a
task force to review how transitions look at classified material to
ensure that there are better processes in place so that when, you know,
staffs around the building are rushedly packing up boxes to try to get
out during a transition as quickly as possible at the same time and up
until the very moment that, you know, they’re still governing and doing
matters of state, you know, they’re going to try to make recommendations
that that can be fixed.

And he’s going to appoint a senior government leader to do that. We’ll
have more on that soon.

Q He posted in 2017 that he —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Go ahead, Kelly — Kelly O.

Q — had classified material down —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Kelly O. Go ahead, Kelly.

Q He boasted about it.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Go ahead, Kelly.

Q In your advocacy here and in the President’s counsel writing back to
Mr. Hur, you’re saying that there were gratuitous comments, that there
are false pieces of information. How is the American public supposed to
process this when we also live in a world where former President Trump
asserts that there was a politicized process that resulted in his
prosecution related to classified documents and other things?

So, for the public, if Democrats and this administration say, “Trust the
Department of Justice; trust the institutions,” but you’re also arguing
here gratuitous political cheap shots and false assertions, how are they
to process that?

MR. SAMS: Well, I talked about this actually a minute ago. And I think,
you know, when you have the former Attorney General, when you have the
former acting FBI director, when you have the former general counsel of
the FBI, you know, these are experienced people at the Justice
Department who spent decades working at the Justice Department. And
they’re saying it’s gratuitous. They’re saying that this is
inappropriate, that this is inconsistent with DOJ policy and practice.
That’s them saying it.

We agree. You know, you heard the President speak forcefully about this
last night. You heard the Vice President speak forcefully about this
today. We certainly agree that it’s gratuitous.

But I explained this a little bit in the opening. We’re in a very
pressurized political environment. And when you are the first special
counsel in history not to indict anybody, there is pressure to criticize
and to make, you know, statements that maybe and otherwise you wouldn’t
make. And, you know, I think that it leaves you wondering why some of
these critiques are in there.

But I think it’s also important to just fundamentally distinguish
between the — the prior case that you mentioned. I want to be careful in
terms of commenting on that. But the special counsel report goes into
great detail about the differences and distinctions there. And I think
it’s important to understand that the criticisms that you’re hearing of
the gratuitous comments in the report — which are wrong, frankly — you
know, this is being shared by people who have deep experience at the
Justice Department.

Q On the many issues related to memory, they certainly seemed to prompt
an angry response from the President and from his advocates. Is there
anything being done to address that issue in an ongoing way? Obviously,
counsel wrote, asking for some of those things to be removed. It is
potential that Robert Hur could be called before Congress to testify in
public. Are there any steps that the administration would take
addressing that specific issue? Is it in relation to overall medical
physician’s report of the President or other things to demonstrate what
is the issue with memory and is it a factor that deals with his capacity
to serve?

MR. SAMS: Well, I have a lot of issues with the contents of that
question. And Karine has answered a lot about the President’s
transparency in his medical records and his physical and things of that
nature. And I, you know, leave that to — to Karine to handle.

But I’ll say, I just read you this. Page 248 — or — sorry, excuse me.
Later in the report, he says, quote, “We expect the evidence of Mr.
Biden’s state of mind to be compelling,” pointing to him providing,
quote, “clear” and, quote, “forceful testimony.”

I can’t explain why the report veers all over the place on this issue. I
can just say — and as you’ve heard from the Vice President; you heard
from members of Congress yesterday talking about their recent
interactions with the President — one, Congressman Goldman from New
York, talking about his interaction with the President the day before
this interview, when Congressman Goldman was on the ground in Israel,
and the long and intensive and detailed conversation they had about what
was going on on the ground.

We just reject that this is true. And — and I think that — I think that
it — it does raise questions about the gratuitousness. And it raises —
you know, makes you wonder why that’s in there.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Go ahead, Weijia.

Q Thank you, Karine. And thank you, Ian. So, you are discrediting some
of the findings in this report. You are discrediting some of the
observations of President Biden. So, why should the American public
accept the conclusion that charges weren’t warranted?

MR. SAMS: I’m not sure I understand exactly what you’re asking.

Q I’m saying you’re claiming that much of the report is inaccurate. So,
why are you so confident that the conclusion is correct? It seems like
you’re cherry picking —

MR. SAMS: The conclusion has been obvious from the very beginning. It
was a long, intensive, sort of meandering investigation that came to the
conclusion that, in February of last year, everybody knew: that this
wasn’t intentional; that this was an accident; that they were found, and
as soon as they were found, the President said, “Give them back. Get
them back as soon as we can and fully cooperate with everything.” So, he
reached the inevitable conclusion because it’s the truth.

The conduct of the investigation throughout and the gratuitous comments
in the report are troubling and they’re inappropriate. But I think that
the — the finding was the obvious one because it’s the truth.

Q President Biden blamed his staff largely for the mishandling of
documents and where they ultimately ended up. Does the President believe
he did everything right when it comes to handling classified material?

MR. SAMS: Well, just look at the re- — again, look at the report. I know
it’s long. But the report talks about how the evidence is that these
were most likely things that were packed up by staff during movements
and transitions and things of that nature. So, that’s reflected by the
report.

It’s not some accusation by the President. It’s just true. I mean, you
guys know. You guys work with White House staff all the time. We support
the principal; that’s our job. And the principal relies on their staff
to help them with things.

And the President said this last night. You know, he talked about how,
you know, looking back, if he had been more eng- — he wishes he had been
more engaged in that process of the packing and the moving things to
make sure that things were being done the right way.

And I think the most important thing to remember is once it was realized
that something wrong had happened, he did everything right to give it
back and to fix the problem.

Q What about all the stuff that he talked about that was in his home in
filing cabinets that were either locked or able to be locked in his
house? What stuff was he talking about? Classified materials?

MR. SAMS: Well, we talked ab- — I mean, the report goes on at length
about this. I’d encourage you to — to read it. It talks about —

Q No, I’m talking about what he said last night. He said: The stuff in
my house was all in filing cabinets that “were either locked or able to
be locked.”

Didn’t he put them in his home?

MR. SAMS: I’m — I’m not really following the question. I think that
what’s clear is that — and I told this to Justin a minute ago: You know,
he has personal diaries that he had. Of course he has his personal
diaries.

The documents that were taken were jumbled up in boxes and found
inadvertently in places. And — and that’s — that’s what happened, so —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: We — we’ve got to move on. Go ahead, Tam.

Q Thank you. How concerned is the President and — and the team here that
the, quote, “gratuitous comments” are going to damage him, damage public
perception of him?

MR. SAMS: I think the public is smart. And I think that they can see
what’s going on. I think that they see a president who fully cooperated.
I think they see a president who did the right thing and made sure
everything got back. And I think that they see that this was a long
investigation that ended without a case to be made. And, you know, I
think that they can see and understand, you know, when people are
gratuitous and — and make comments that they shouldn’t make and that are
beyond the — the remit of a prosecutor to do. I think that they
understand that. And I think that they — I think that they’ll — they’ll
understand that the President did the right thing here.

Q If the 7th and 8th were obviously — or 8th and 9th were obviously,
like, very busy days where the President was overstretched, taking calls
in the middle of the night, all of this, why continue with the interview
with Hur? Why not do it on another day? Why give him the opportunity to
have these lines in the report about lapses about timelines?

MR. SAMS: Is that — he should have thrown up roadblocks, is that you’re
saying? I mean, no —

Q No, I — I’m saying —

MR. SAMS: — he — he committed to it. And as —

Q — he could have told the Special Counsel —

MR. SAMS: And —

Q — like, “Hey, the world is on fire. Could we do it another day?”

MR. SAMS: I’ll tell you what’s interesting about this — and this is
oddly not in the report — is at the beginning of his interview, the
special counsel told the President, “I understand that, you know, you’re
dealing with a lot of things right now. And I’m going to be asking you
questions about stuff from a long time ago. I want you to try to recall
to the best of your abilities,” you know, things of that nature. That’s
often what prosecutors would tell witnesses.

So, you know, he understood that. But the President was going to commit
to being cooperative. He talked about this last night. He wanted to make
sure he had everything he needed, and he didn’t want to throw up
roadblocks.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: We’ve got to move on. Go ahead, Tyler.

Q Thanks, Karine. Just a first question: Has the President read the
entire report? And when was he given the — the report? Did — did he
review it when his lawyers did the privilege review? And do you have
any, just, context on when he himself found the — the findings of it?

MR. SAMS: We received the report yesterday from the Justice Department
formally, like, present — you know, sending it over. Obviously, the
President’s lawyers were — were doing the privilege review that we
disclosed to everybody was happening and disclosed when we had concluded
it.

And so, I think, you know, they were — you know, they had — they had
briefed him on — on — on the material, as the client, you know, as is
typical in a — in a legal case. And then we received the full report
yesterday.

You know, the President has been pretty busy. I’m not sure if he’s read
400 pages. I’m not sure how many, you know, folks in this room have read
all 400 pages of it. But he certainly is familiar with the contents of
the report.

Q And then just one quick follow-up. The President was animated last
night, rejecting the idea that he did not remember when his son died.
Can you provide a little bit more context about was he directly asked in
the interview by the special counsel for the dates? Was it part of a
broader conversation? I just think some additional context to understand
what is in that report might be helpful.

MR. SAMS: Yeah, I think — I mean, the President was pretty clear last
night, and I think that the American people have heard from him for
years about the pain and the suffering that they went through when Beau
passed away and the gravity of that.

And I think to suggest that he couldn’t remember when his son died is
really out of bounds. You know, the conversations in the — in the
interview back and forth — you know, he’s being asked about, you know,
file folders from a basement and “how did they get there” and “what is
that” and “what were you doing around that time” and things of that
nature.

I don’t want to — just to be very careful, I don’t want to get into
specific, you know, things while it’s still in a classification process.
But, you know, it is safe to say that, of course, the President knows
when his son died.

Q So do you have any sense of why the special counsel would write
explicitly in the report that the President did not — was unable to
recall when his son died?

MR. SAMS: You’d have to ask the special counsel why he chose to include
that.

Q Thanks, Karine. Thanks, Ian. So, you said that you told the special
counsel that the criticisms of President Biden were inaccurate,
gratuitous, and wrong. So, how did the special counsel respond when you
told them that?

MR. SAMS: (Inaudible.)

Q So, they ignored it?

MR. SAMS: I’m unaware of any changes that were made in response to our
very strong, forceful, and rooted-in-evidence arguments that we
provided.

Q And you had just mentioned how these interviews happened shortly after
the October 7th attacks. The President mentioned it last night. In
mentioning that, does that mean that possible memory lapses happened
because he was so distracted by what was happening overseas or do you
dispute that he had any memory issues during those hours of interviews?

Q I — I dispute that the characterizations about his memory that were in
the report are accurate, because they’re not. And I think the President
spoke very clearly about how he — his mind was on other things. I mean,
he was dealing with a huge international crisis of great global
consequence.

And, you know, he was trying his best to — to answer questions in this
interview, because he wanted to be fully cooperative.

Q So, there were no memory lapses during?

MR. SAMS: I think you — I think there’s something important that people
should remember about the way that sort of interviews like this happen.
If God forbid, you know, one of you guys ever have to get interviewed by
a prosecutor — and, you know, I hope you don’t — you know, witnesses are
told, as I mentioned, by Special Counsel to do the best they can to
recall or remember things. And they’re — they’re not supposed to
speculate. You know, they want facts. They want facts and evidence.

And so, you know, I think probably in almost every prosecutorial
interview you can imagine that people have said that they don’t recall
things, because that’s what they’re instructed to do. So, I think that’s
just important context to keep in mind.

Q And just lastly, in September, the President was asked about Trump’s
classified documents being found in Mar-a-Lago, and he said, quote, “How
could that possibly happen? How could anyone be that irresponsible?” But
there were classified documents found in the President’s garage in a
damaged cardboard box. So, would that be considered irresponsible?

MR. SAMS: Look, I think the President made clear that he gave everything
back as soon as he found out that he had it. And so, you know, I think
that it’s fundamentally incorrect to try to analogize the situation or
to and — and frankly, the report says that too.

And the idea that — that he did anything except be totally cooperative
and to take great strides to ensure that the classified documents were
returned speaks for itself.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Okay. Go ahead.

Q Thank you. Ian, the Vice President referred today to the report as
being “politically motivated.” Is that the position of the White House,
that this report was politically motivated?

MR. SAMS: I — I saw the Vice President’s remarks, and I thought they
were very powerful.

And I talked about this a little bit at the top of our conversation here
today. You know, there’s an environment that we are in that generates a
ton of pressure, because you have congressional Republicans, other
Republicans attacking prosecutors that they don’t like, and it creates,
you know, a need — if you’re going to determine that charges weren’t
filed, people are human and they’re thinking through, you know, what do
we need to do? And, you know, it leaves one to wonder exactly why he
included a lot of the criticisms that were in there.

Q Also, on — with regard to the staff, President Biden has had some
staff members who’ve worked for him for decades. He referenced their
mistake last night. Has he had a visit with any of these staff members?
Do the staff members who are responsible for taking those documents to
his house — do they still work for the President? Have there been any
consequences?

MR. SAMS: Well, I think I talked about this also before. I mean, this is
an issue that has plagued administrations of both parties for 50 years,
where accidentally things get shuffled up and taken and removed.

And the Archives has, you know — literally, they put a Frequently Asked
Questions page on their website about what you do if you find them
accidentally. That’s how often it happens.

And, you know, he gave them all back as soon as he found out about it.
We understand that mistakes happen sometimes. I’m not going to get into
sort of individual witness or parsing like that from the report.

Q It didn’t happen for President Obama, President Clinton, President
Bush, Sr., or President Bush, Jr. I don’t know if three people makes it
a common —

MR. SAMS: That’s actually not true. Officials from all administrations
from the past, you know, half century or so have had this accidentally
happen.

Q But not the principals.

MR. SAMS: But you’re — you’re parsing two things. You asked me about the
fact that — and the report states this clearly: This is likely the
result of inadvertent packing by staff. And you asked exactly about the
staff issue. And so, I’m responding about staff issue.

Q And — okay. And you can’t say whether the staff still work for
President Biden?

MR. SAMS: Well, I’m saying that — that the — the question you’re asking
about the frequency and normalcy, unfortunately, of mistakes like these
being made, they happen. And what — what matters is how you respond to
it. And when you find out that there was a mistake that was made, you
give everything back, and that’s exactly what was done.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: All right. We’re trying to get as much people as
possible. Go ahead, M.J.

Q Thanks, Ian. What does it — what does it say about Merrick Garland’s
judgment that he appointed someone who ultimately put out a report that
was so egregious, so inappropriate, and flouted department regulations
and norms?

MR. SAMS: I think the President actually answered this question last
night. I’m not sure which of you asked him it. But he talked about, you
know, his views on the appointment of the Special Prosecutor, and I
really don’t have anything beyond what he said.

Q Two things I was hoping you could quickly clarify. The report says
that in 2017, the President told his ghostwriter that he just found all
the classified stuff downstairs. Why did he not report that at the time?

MR. SAMS: Well, and this is included in the report, as well, if you read
through it. The President was talking about a handwritten letter that he
had sent to President Obama — that he faxed to him — about the
Afghanistan policy in 2009.

And, you know, he says — you know, and this is in the report — that he’s
— and he said last night, you know, “I should have said ‘sensitive’; I
should have said, you know, really care- — you know, more careful
language about that,” because he was talking about something that was a
personal — like, a letter he sent to the President.

Q So, in his mind, it was “sensitive,” but what he said was
“classified”?

MR. SAMS: Yeah, this is in the report. They talk a lot about how, you
know, the President actually took great care when talking with his book
writer to note things like, “Hey, I — you need to be really careful with
some of this stuff. I’m not entirely sure about it.”

And so, I think that — I think that that’s important to realize, that
the report itself actually talks about what care he took with this sort
of information as they explore all the theories and go through all the
evidence that sort of refutes most of those theories — almost all of —
actually, all of those theories, when you think about the judgment that
there will be no case in this — in this matter.

So, you know, that’s — that’s addressed in the report.

Q And the second thing. The President also said last night, “All the
stuff that was in my home was in filing cabinets that were either locked
or able to be locked.” But the report says that some of the classified
documents were in cabinet drawers, while others — about Afghanistan, for
example — were in unsealed and “badly damaged box” sitting in his
garage. So, did the President misspeak last night?

MR. SAMS: Look, I think the President was responding to a number of
inaccurate allegations in this — in this report. We’ve talked a lot
about — Justin asked about the diaries. I mean, this is his personal
diaries. Of course, he has them in his house.

So, you know, I don’t have anything kind of to add on what he said last
night.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Go ahead, Zolan.

Q I want to follow up on the Vice President’s comments. You’ve been
saying “gratuitous.” She said “politically motivated.” Is it this — is
it this administration’s stance that this report was issued in part or
there was a motive in this issue — a goal — a goal with this report to
inflict political harm on the President?

MR. SAMS: I think that you have to look at what — I mean, we talked
about this at the beginning of our conversation today. You have a
situation where former DOJ officials are talking about the political
repercussions of these actions and that it’s incumbent upon the
prosecutor to take great care to follow departmental policy to not
criticize unindicted conduct and behavior or characteristics, which
we’ve seen in — in this case. And —

Q I understand that’s former DOJ officials. But this White House right
now — is it the stance by this White House that this report was issued,
in part, with a motive and a goal to inflict political harm on the
President?

MR. SAMS: I — I heard the question the first time, and I’m just — I, you
know, have nothing to object to in what the Vice President said. I
thought she was powerful and forceful.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Go ahead, Frances- —

Q But also, just to follow up. I’m sorry. This administration, as you
said — you said that Republicans have often attacked prosecutors’ —

MR. SAMS: Yeah.

Q — independent systems.

MR. SAMS: That is well known.

Q And you said that’s created an environment where, if I’ve interpreted
this right, there is an incentive by the special counsel to include some
of this language. But often I’ve heard from Democrats and this White
House say that those attacks against independent systems can also sow
distrust with the public and those independent institutions.

By saying that this is politically motivated — not just gratuitous but
politically motivated — does this not also sow distrust with the public
and independent institutions?

MR. SAMS: I reject — I reject that question. You see this — and it’s in
the report — the letter that the — the President’s lawyer and the White
House Counsel’s Office sent to the special counsel to talk about the
Department of Justice norms and policies that they see as being violated
by some of the comments and remarks made in the report.

And so, you know, I think that that’s a false equivalence kind of
question, because what we have argued and what we continue to say and
believe is that you’re not supposed to make these sorts of things,
according to Justice Department policy. We — the President, when he ran
— and you guys all know this because you heard this — talked about how
important it was to restore the rule of law. And he understands that.
And he talked about this last night, to M.J.’s point, about the
appointment of the special counsel and, sort of, how he felt about that.

You know, this is a president who is committed to the — to restoring
those norms. And I think when we object to some of the gratuitousness in
the comments that you’re asking about, you know, we’re — and you heard
me talk about the former Attorney General and other people who have made
those comments — you know, they are criticizing that this does not
follow those norms.

(Cross-talk.)

MR. SAMS: Yeah, I know. We’ve got to keep going, guys.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: We’ve got to move on. Go ahead, (inaudible).

Q With respect to the portion of the video and the transcript where he
was asked about his time as Vice President and about Beau Biden’s death,
why not release those parts of the video? Those aren’t classified.

MR. SAMS: It’s a transcript we’re talking about, and I already addressed
this with Justin.

Q Okay. So —

MR. SAMS: (Inaudible.)

Q So, what you’re saying is this was a video; there’s was — there’s not
tapes that you can release of that?

MR. SAMS: I’ve just responded. I think that the question —

Q Okay.

MR. SAMS: — is about the transcript.

Q Okay. And for — and as far as Attorney — former Attorney General
Holder is concerned, you referenced him and the normal DOJ review
process. He brought that up in his Tweet as well — or his X posting.
What part of the normal DOJ review process is the White House saying was
violated or bypassed in some way?

MR. SAMS: Well, there’s actually — it’s an interesting question. It’s a
little in the weeds. Pardon me. But this — the special counsel
regulations that exist at the Justice Department govern the process that
is supposed to happen here. And the Justice Department has its own, sort
of, manual of procedures. And, you know, as you’ve heard from those
experts, you’re not supposed to, sort of, criticize unindicted conduct
when you’re making these determinations.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Okay. Phil, in the back.

Q Thank you. A follow-up and then a separate question. You said a moment
ago that the President was responding to inaccurate information when he
claimed last night that “all the stuff in my home was behind locked
filing cabinets.” Is he entirely clear now, at this point, where all the
documents were discovered? And does he now know that his statement about
locked filing cabinets is false?

MR. SAMS: The — the report lays out in 400 pages of detail all of the
evidence and all of the review that they conducted in looking into this
matter. The President made sure that all of the classified documents
that were found were returned promptly to the government, which is what
you’re supposed to do, which is why this is the inevitable conclusion
that there is no case here.

Q And that’s not what I asked, though. Does he know that his statement
yesterday that all the documents were behind locked cabinets was
inaccurate? Is he clear, in his mind? I know that last night was perhaps
con- — you know, a stressful, confusing environment, but does he now
know —

MR. SAMS: I understand what you’re trying to ask, Phil, and I think that
I’ve answered the question.

Q I — I have a separate follow-up question.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Go ahead.

Q And that is —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: No. Go ahead, in the back.

Q My follow-up question after that lack of a response was: There was an
eye-popping moment in the report, specifically about the President’s
ghostwriter. And that was that after he learned that the special counsel
had began an investigation, he deleted some of his recordings. Now,
those recordings were able to be recovered. What I’m curious about is:
Can you say definitively whether or not the President or anyone else at
the White House was in contact with his ghostwriter?

MR. SAMS: This is in the report. I mean, read the report. In the report,
it says that — that they sought this, they looked into this, and that
they didn’t. So —

Q So, they were not in contact?

MR. SAMS: — that’s in the report.

Q They were not in contact?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Jon. And then we’re going to wrap this up. Go ahead,
Jon.

Q Thank you, Karine. Ian, thank you so much.

MR. SAMS: Sure. Yeah.

Q Two questions. Just for clarity, you’re from the White House Counsel’s
Office, correct?

MR. SAMS: Correct.

Q But you’re not a lawyer, correct?

MR. SAMS: That’s correct.

Q Okay.

MR. SAMS: I’m the spokesperson.

Q Okay. Any chance that we’ll get the White House Counsel to come out
here and answer questions directly?

MR. SAMS: I — should I be offended by that? (Laughter.) I mean, I — I
was —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Don’t worry, I get offended all the time.

MR. SAMS: I know. I mean, what? I mean, come on.

Q You did say something that was factually incorrect —

MR. SAMS: I was — I was asked —

Q — Ian. There has been a previous special counsel probe.

(Cross-talk.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Jon, finish — finish your question, please.

MR. SAMS: I was asked to come today by your colleagues in the press
corps, and we happily obliged.

Q Thank you. As you know, former President Trump, he was charged with a
slew of criminal charges related to classified documents in his
possession, including counts of willful retention of national defense
information.

In this report, it’s made clear by the special counsel that President
Biden willfully retained and disclosed classified material. He kept it
in unsecured locations after his vice presidency, which presented,
according to the special counsel, “serious risks to national security.”

So, my question to you, Ian, is: Can you explain to every voter out
there — every American why it is that President Biden essentially is let
off the hook and former President Trump is now facing these slew of
criminal charges, which seem, to most people, very similar?

MR. SAMS: Great wind-up, Jon. I mean — I mean, really good wind-up. I
talked about this already: page 1, willful retention; page 215, there
is, in fact, a shortage of evidence on these points.

The report itself goes through in great detail the facts and evidence
that led to the obvious conclusion that there was no case here. The
report itself answers the question you’re asking about the distinction
between two cases. As you guys have heard us from the White House say
for a long time, we’re very careful about commenting on certain cases
like that.

Just I would encourage you — perhaps all of you: Read the report.

Q I’ve read the report, and that’s the reason why I asked that question.
And the reason why so many people seem confused, because you hear
“willful retention of national defense information” related to Trump,
“willful retention of classimi- — classified material” relating to
President Biden, and yet one individual is facing a criminal trial being
brought by the Department of Justice in Fort Pierce, Florida, and the
other one —

MR. SAMS: Sure. And I think this is —

Q — is not facing any charges whatsoever.

MR. SAMS: Sure. And I think I’ve talked to many of — of you guys in the
room over the last 24 hours about this. The allegation that there was
willful retention of documents is refuted by the evidence in the report.

And the conclusion was made directly that the evidence does not support
that claim. He explored the theory. It’s in there on page 2. Everybody
focused on it. I’m exploring the theory of willful retention, but that
the evidence as a whole was insufficient because that’s not what the
facts show.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Thank you so much, Ian.

MR. SAMS: Thanks, Karine.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Appreciate it.

MR. SAMS: Really appreciate you guys.

(Cross-talk.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Thanks, Ian.

Q Thanks, Ian. There was a previous special counsel probe that did not
result in indictments, by the way: the Ham Jordan case.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Okay. Thank you. I would say refer to the White House
Special Couns- — no, not special counsel, but legal counsel, and they’re
here. They came.

Okay. Go ahead, Aamer.

Q Excuse me. Two questions. Just following up on —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah.

Q — comments that the President made last night.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah.

Q President Biden called the military operations in Gaza “over the top.”
And this comes after the White House has pretty consistently defended
Israel’s conduct. What’s changed and what exactly did the President mean
by “over the top”?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah. So, first of all, I — you know, I would say
nothing has changed. His position hasn’t changed. His — I don’t think
his messaging hasn’t — has changed. We don’t think his messaging has
changed. He doesn’t believe his messaging has changed.

This isn’t something — the first time he’s done so — what you heard from
him yesterday. Look, the President made it very clear in his comment
that he was obviously talking about Israel’s conduct in Gaza. And he’s
been clear — he’s been clear that the United States wants to see Hamas,
a terrorist organization, defeated. He’s been very clear on that. That
is a shared goal that we have, obviously, with Israel.

But at the same time — at the same time, while we have said that, we
have been also very clear — the President has been very clear that they
must do so by ensuring that their operations are targeted and conducted
in a way that we are protecting innocent civilians, and that is
something that we have been incredibly consistent about here in this
administration. We want to make sure that we are also protecting
innocent civilians.

So, that is what the President was — was speaking to yesterday. He was
asked, like, obviously, a direct question, and he answered that.

Q Okay. Can I just ask — secondly, the President, last night, bristled
against the fact that many Americans have concerns about his age. I
think to question of one of my colleagues, he said, “That’s your
judgment,” suggesting it’s the media’s judgment.

There’s no shortage of published polls that suggests Americans have
concern about his age and stamina, and it’s been put in all sort of
different ways. So, is the President out of touch with what Americans
feel about this issue?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, you know, look, obviously, when it comes to the
report, more broadly, you just heard from my colleague, Ian Sams — that
part of the report, we don’t think be- — lives in reality, and that’s
what he was speaking to, where — where, you know, comments were made in
that report about that — about — obviously, about his memory that we
don’t believe lives in reality.

Q So —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: And — no, no, no. I’m going to answer your question.
Just give me — just give me — just give me a beat. I’m going to answer
your question.

When you have a president that has been one of the most productive, if
not the most productive and effective presidents in modern time, that,
you would assume, is a president that is indeed in touch with where the
American people are. Right? That would assume that the President
understands what’s going on around the kitchen table when Americans are
sitting around the kitchen table trying to figure out how are they going
to deal with the economy, how are we going to deal with the healthcare.

So, in our opinion, in my opinion, he is very much in touch with what
Americans are feeling out there as it relates to lowering costs, as it
relates to making sure that we Big — beat Big Pharma. This is a
President who understands what the American people are feeling.

Look, as it relates to his age, as it relates to what has been said by —
you know, by — in this report, it is something that we don’t believe
lives in reality, in the sense of this is — this is a president I have
spent — I have known this president since 2009. I’ve known this
president. He has been not just my boss but a mentor to me.

And no one in this building would say that — what we saw in this report
about his memory. Everybody sees somebody who works very, very hard —
has spent hours with him — understanding exactly where the American
people are and what they’re feeling, and also how to deliver on those
and critical, important issues to them.

Q Your argument on hi- — on the report and the assertion that it’s
gratuitous is well taken, as well as —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah.

Q — what you believe is his performance. I get that.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah.

Q But he seemed to be playing with a different set of facts. The facts
are that this is an issue that Americans are concerned about. And he’s
saying that it’s just the media’s judgment.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Right, but he has also joked around with all of you and
talked about — and said some — some things about his age in a way that
he understands where people — where people are. He actually said that
when — in his answer. He has also mentioned his old pal, Jimmy Madison,
right?

He — he gets it. He gets how he’s viewed. He gets what people see and
what’s written about him and what the American people also see.

But there are other things to note, right? McCarthy, when he was
Speaker, said that he has found the President “mentally sharp in
meetings.” You know, there are stories like that from — as — they’re
saying it quietly, privately — House Republicans and other Republicans
in Con- — in Congress.

But there’s reports from all of you, who have said that they have — they
have interviewed some of these folks and have said the President is
sharp. The President — when they have a conversation with the President,
he understands the issue.

I mean, we saw it at the la- — last State of the Union. He — you know,
he was able to negotiate while giving a very important speech — about 90
minutes — to the world. Like, I mean, you know, millions of Americans
watch as he was able to negotiate with House Republicans in the room.

Q So, is —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, people see that al- — also for themselves. They
also see that for themselves as well.

Q So, is the President’s feel that this is — the result of Americans
being concerned about his age is just based on a media narrative and
it’s — it’s not based in reality?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Look, what I’m saying is that he hear — he understands
what people may think. He has actually joked about it. He actually has
joked about it, saying “Jimmy Madison” and have said many other things.

He says, “I know I’m not — I know people think I’m 40 years old.” Like,
he has made jokes about it. So, he gets it.

What we are saying — what I am saying in front of you today is that he
has results. There are a results, his record. The data shows that this
is a president that gets where the American people are and has delivered
in that way — whether it’s the economy, whether it’s healthcare.

Even on the global stage, what other leaders have said about him —
right? — what other — what — he has been able to bring leaders together,
more than 50 countries, to deal with an issue — not an issue, a war — be
very clear — in Ukraine, where the brave people of Ukraine are fighting
against Mr. Putin’s aggression.

So, world leaders see it. Leaders on the other side of Pennsylvania —
whether it’s a Republican or a Democrat — see it. And so, that matters
as well.

And that’s what we’re trying to say to you as well. It is that we have
seen and we have heard from others that this is a president that has
delivered and this is a president that’s going to continue to do so for
the American people.

Go ahead, Selina.

Q Thanks, Karine. You’ve downplayed concerns about the President’s
memories in situations where he has mixed up certain things. You’ve said
it happens and it’s common. But yesterday, we saw the President again
have a mix-up with the President of Egypt with the President of Mexico.
So, how do you explain that? Is it not valid that voters would have
these concerns?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Look, what I would say is this: This is a president
that has rela- — this has had relationship with world leaders for more
than 40 years. He has. And at times — and I even said this yesterday —
does he has — has he, you know, misspoken, as many of us do? I’ve laid
out some examples of even Speaker Johnson just on — on TV, on “Meet the
Press” on Sunday, who — who said he — he supports Iran when he meant to
say he supports Israel. It happens. It truly, truly happens.

In that same answer that he gave, he actually gave an incredibly
detailed answer on the overlapping dynamics in the Middle East as he was
— as he was responding to the question that he received from one of your
colleagues.

And look, I — I want to quote one more — one more person, as I’ve been
quoting folks this — today.

Yair Rosenberg at The Atlantic said, “Biden has gaffe- — gaffed names
his entire career.” His entire career. It is not uncommon that he has
done that, like many of us do. And he said, “He was — he was clearly —
and he was clearly talking — clearly talking about Egypt, and named
Sisi, and laid out his policy and the broader issues in detail. Twitter
just isn’t interested” in that. Right?

And so, look, this is a president who has the experience. He has been —
and you’ve heard me say this: He has been senator for 36 years; he’s
been, obviously, pres- — vice president for 8; and now president. He has
these long, long relationships with leaders.

I think what’s important here is to remember is that when it comes to
the essence of the issue, the issue at hand, he understands that and has
dealt with that — probably, you know, better than, you know, any
modern-day president because of the record that we have seen, because of
what has presented in front of him as we look at what’s going on in the
world, what’s going on in Ukraine, what’s going on in the Middle East.

Q How did the President react when he first saw the report?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I’m not going to get into, you know, private
discussions, private conversations with the President- — with the
President.

Q And just to follow up quickly. I think Justin had asked this before,
but Ian Sams was making this argument that these are notes that he was
reading from his own personal notes, from his own personal diary. But
that can still be classified information, even if it was stuff he had
written to himself. So, is the White House disputing that there was
classified information there that —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, look, I’m not going to get into — Ian spent a good
couple of minutes going back and forth and answering that question. I’m
just not — I don’t have anything else beyond what Ian — Ian, my
colleague, shared here.

I think the bigger picture here is that the close is — the case is
closed. And I think that’s what the American people also should know as
well. And so, I’m just not going to get into details from here.

Go ahead.

Q Thanks, Karine. With concerns about the President’s age, are there any
plans within the White House to have him engage more with the press?
Engage more, you know, there — he decided not to do the interview before
the Super Bowl that many presidents have done. Has there been any
considerations about revisiting that or other sorts of engagements to —
as you said, many people in the White House do not see the image of him
that the report depicts. Are there conversations about trying to change
that perception among the American people?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I mean, look — look, you — you saw — you — your
colleagues were I think — were you in the room, Tyler, yesterday?

Your colleagues were — and yourself — were able to see the President and
ask questions yesterday. He was — he did that, I believe — if not the
day before yesterday, he did that a couple of times this week — I think
about three times — engaging with the press. It’s just something that he
does pretty often.

You know, and we’re going to try and obviously pick moments. He’s going
to, on his own, have moments where he’s going to want to walk over and
talk to all of us, as he has done many times before.

And he — we’re going to continue to, obviously — to your question, yes,
we’re going to find many different ways to engage with the press. That’s
something that we think — it’s very important. It’s important to take
your questions. It’s important to hear from all of you and hear directly
to, you know, what — you know, what’s — what’s on the mind of the
American people, as well as what we believe is on the mind of the
American people and take your questions.

So, that’s not going to change. I don’t have — I don’t have anything —

Q Well, not would that change, but I’m just wondering if there has been
more conversation in the White House in the last 24 hours about, you
know, a sense of urgency to try and get the President out there.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I mean, I hear the question, but he literally took
questions from all of you three times this week — three times — once
when we were on the —

Q But not just about questions from the press, but just more broadly
about getting the President out — out more to try to combat the idea
that he has memory issues as — or — and isn’t, you know —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: No, Ty- — I hear your question, but he — we literally
did — I was on the road with the President from Thursday last week until
Monday evening. We went to Detroit — or Mich- — we went to Michigan, we
went to California, we went to — you know, we went to Vegas. The
President has been out there. You know? And that’s something that we’re
going to continue to do.

And so, he wants to be out there to talk directly to the American
people. You hear us say that all the time. And you’ve seen him do that
throughout the month of January. And now, obviously, we’re in February.
We’re going to continue doing that as we have been for the last two to
three years. It’s not going to stop.

Go ahead.

Q Thanks, Karine. A question about Israel. Has he communicated to Prime
Minister Netanyahu that he believes his response has been “over the
top”? Is that language he has used in their discussions?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I mean, look, we have read out — well, every — you
know, we’ve read out conversations that the President has had with the
Prime Minister. The President has always been clear with — with the
Prime Minister. I just don’t have anything beyond that.

You know, what he — you know, what he — he has — he said yesterday —
what the President said yesterday, he’s done before in saying very
clearly obviously — obviously, we believe that Israel has a right to
defend itself. Obviously, we believe we are in agreement that, you know,
a terrorist organization — we have to — they have to make sure that they
are — deal with this terrorist organization that Octo- — October 7th,
you know, terrorized — terrorized and killed more than, you know, 1,200
people. That is a reality.

But at the same time, the President has also been clear that their
military operations need to be done in a precise way, in a more targeted
way. We need to protect civilians’ lives. And so, you know, that has
been the case.

Now, in the broader scope, the President has been working with his team
to make sure that we have another humanitarian pause. We understand how
important that is to make sure we bring those hostages home to their
friends, to their family, to their loved ones and also get that really
critical, important humanitarian aid that’s needed in Gaza — get that in
there.

And so, that’s what — that’s been the President’s position. Nothing has
changed there.

Q Can you clarify whether there’s been any change in White House policy
with regard to tying aid for Israel to its actions?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I don’t have any change of policy to announce to you —
to all of you.

Go ahead.

Q Just since my colleague referenced a question that we asked last
night. The question was about voters having concerns about the
President’s age, and his response was that that was my judgment. I was
obviously making a reference to public polls that are out there that
indicate that voters do have this concern. So, does the President not
believe that many voters have this concern about his age?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I mean, the President has talked about it. He has joked
about his age, right? He has. He has joked about his age, understanding
what — what voters might think. He has. He has done — he done — he has
done that pretty often.

I think what he — I think the other thing that you — that we want to
make sure that you all understand is that this is a president that also
has delivered for the American people. That is a fact. That is something
that we see in the data. That is something that we see in the policy,
whether it’s bipartisan legislation that we’ve been able to get through
that people didn’t think we would be able to get through, whether it’s
as — as it relates to, like, infrastructure or the — the CHIPS and
Science Act — real, real, real things that American people feel.

And for him, that’s what he believes is important to focus on, is what
the American people need in the sense of issues that matter to them. And
that’s what he wants his focus to be. That’s what we want our focus to
be as well. That’s what we’re always trying to communicate with all of
you.

But he jokes arou- — about it all the time. He makes jokes about his age
all the time.

Q I’m just asking for clarification on why the fact that we brought up
that concern prompted him to say this is “your judgment,” as though
there isn’t —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Because — because what I —

Q — public polling that shows that voters do have that concern.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Well, I just state- — I just stated moments ago, it is
— it is your judgment — right? — in the sense of, like, that is not what
we see. Right? When we see what —

Q It wasn’t my judgment.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: But meaning more broadly. I’m not talking about you
specifically.

Q Yes, more broadly —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: More broadly.

Q — voters have that concern.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Right.

Q I’m just asking: Does the President believe and understand that that
is a concern that voters have?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I already he said he understands. That’s why he makes
jokes about it. I get — he understands that. But what we are trying to
say is: Our judgment from here — what we see from this president is a
president that is zeroed in and focused on the American people. When we
see him working, he is focused.

And we don’t see what — for example, all of this was brought up by the
report. We — we do not believe that part of the report lives in reality.
And that is what we’re speaking to. That is what we’re talking about.

Q Do you think there’s any risk to the President sounding like he’s dis-
— dismissing that concern when he has that kind of reaction to a
question like that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Look, the President is going to obviously speak for
himself and lay out what he thinks is important for the — to talk about
as it relates to the Amer- — American people. When it tal- — when — he
wants to talk about the economy. He wants to talk about healthcare.

We’re — we are talking this week about gun violence — right? — how do we
prevent gun violence, which is an issue that is incredibly important to
communities across the country, when you talk — when you think about gun
violence being an epidemic in this country.

Those are the things that he wants to focus on. Those are the things
that he wants to — that he wants to make sure that the American people
understand what we’re doing to deal with those critical issues.

As it relates to his age, he makes jokes about it. He does. You hear him
make jokes about it all the time. He gets it. He gets it.

But he also wants to make sure that we are talking about the issues that
— and I talked about this starting almost –starting this — the briefing
here, is what people really care about when they are sitting around
their kitchen table. And that matters. We believe that matters as well.

Go ahead, Francesca.

Q Thanks, Karine. Picking up on Tyler’s line of questioning. Why wasn’t
there a two-and-two today with the German Chancellor?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Look, we always find different ways to — to engage with
the press when we do these — when we do these types of bilats. There are
many things that come into consideration. And with this trip, there was
no two-plus-two. You’re going to see — obviously, you’re — there’s going
to be — some of your colleagues are going to be part of the — of the
pool spray in a couple of minutes — not too long from now. And so,
you’ll — you know, you’ll have an opportunity to see the two of them.

Look, every visit is different. And they’re different for different
reasons. It’s not just us. We have conversations with — with other
countries that the leader — obviously, the leader of the team of the
other country. I just — this just happens to not have a two-plus-two,
but that’s not always the case.

Q And, yesterday, when you made light of the President’s verbal flubs,
had you been briefed on the special counsel report or —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: No.

Q — or seen it at all?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: No, not at all.

Q Okay.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: And what do you mean when I “made light of the
President’s verbal flubs”?

Q Well, you made some jokes in response to questions about the President
confusing world leaders with deceased world leaders. And —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Well, I — what I did was I — I tried to state very
clearly that — and yes, I did it in a light way, because it does happen
to many people. And I actually talked about one of your colleagues that
I do it to all the time.

And so, look, I — you know, I just want to be very clear: You know, this
is a — this is a president that is very much focused on the American
people. He is very much focused on making sure what he was elected to do
gets done. What he has — the promises that he’s made to communities
across the country gets kept. So, I just want to make sure that is made
also very clear.

Q And finally, in response to the special counsel report, one of the
President’s Republican presidential rivals, Nikki Haley, has called for
a mental competency test for the President. Is that something that the
White House is actively considering as a way to try and put to rest some
of these allegations about his memory lapses?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I mean, look, I’m not a medical doctor. So, certainly,
I’m not going to stand here and make — opine on — on tests or anything
of that nature.

What I can say is that — and I remember talking to — I remember talking
to the President’s doctor last year, when I was asked about a cogniti- —
cognitive test when the President’s — when the President’s physical came
out. And he said to me — and I’m — I’m paraphrasing, because this was
over a year ago at this point — that because of the President’s actions
every day, what he deals with with world leaders, the domestic issues
that — that he has to — he has to deal with, he believes that that shows
— right? — that shows that the President is very much active and
understands what’s going on — right? — and didn’t believe that — didn’t
believe that a test like that was warranted because of just who he is as
President of the United States and everything that he has to deal with.

But, again, I’m not a medical doctor. We — the President is going to
continue to be, obviously, transparent when it comes to his physical. We
were over the last two years. We’ll have — he’ll have one this year, and
when we’re — when we — the time permits, obviously — or when the time
comes, we’ll certainly share that.

Go ahead, Weijia.

Q Thank you, Karine. Last night, soon after the President’s remarks
about Israel, the administration announced a national security memo that
calls for the State Department to obtain written assurances that
countries that receive weapons from the U.S. will use those weapons in
accordance with the law of war.

Jake Sullivan, Kirby, others have previously said that the U.S. already
requires those assurances, so why did the administration feel the need
to formalize that and ask for it in writing now?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, look — so, this memor- — memorandum that you’re
speaking of — and it merged, in part, with our discussions with members
of Congress. And so, this, obviously, memo came out yesterday. And so,
it’s called a national security memorandum. It outlines the standards
and coun- — that countries must adhere, as you just laid it — as you
just laid out.

But I also want to be clear: There are new — there are no new standards
in this memo. We are not imposing new standards for military aid. That’s
not what is in this memo. Instead, we are spelling out publicly the
existing standards by the international law, including the law of armed
conflict.

So, we are also — one thing that we are doing is creating a new annual
report to Congress that members have requested. This is in request,
because of interest of transparency. So, this is in line with
conversations that we have with — with the congressional members, as we
try to really, you know, work together in a way that — that makes sense
and moves the ball forward.

But this is not new standards. This is — this is something — these are —
these are — these are things that already exist — to your point — that
is now in writing. And then, there — and we did create a new annual
report for more transparency.

Q So, if Israel doesn’t sign off within the deadline of 45 days, because
it is involved with active conflict, will the U.S. aid be cut off
immediately?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, what I can tell you is that we did brief the
Israelis on this. They reiterated their willingness to provide these
types of assurances. So, those conversations are happening, and they —
obviously, they reiterated their willingness to — for these assurances.

Q Thank you.

AIDE: Karine — Karine, you’ve got time for one more.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: One more.

Go ahead.

Q Thank you, Karine. If the special counsel says President Biden has got
“significant limitations” on his memory, then who is helping him run the
country?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: The President of the United States runs the country.
The Commander-in-Chief runs the country.

Q How can he be trusted with the nuclear codes if — I get that you’re
saying that nobody in the building would say that he’s got an issue with
his memory. But just the little part of what we get to see, he has made
mistake after mistake after mistake after mistake on camera this week.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, I’m going to be very clear here. The reality is
that report — that part of the report does not live in reality. It just
doesn’t.

Q So, the special counsel is —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: It is — it — it is —

Q — lying about the President’s memory?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: It is — it is — it was gratuitous. You heard from my —
you heard from Ian Sams, my colleague. It is unacceptable. And it does
not live in reality. That is just the facts.

And — and, look, it is a closed case. That is what the special counsel
said. And what matters is — here is that the President, in the last
three years, has delivered on the economy, has delivered on healthcare,
has turned this country around after the last president left us with an
economy that was in a tailspin. That’s what we were dealing with. That’s
what we were dealing with.

If you think about the world leaders — world leads — and issues that
have been going on in this country for the past two, three years — not
even in this country, in the world. Right? When you think about Ukraine,
the President was able to bring together NATO — NATO Allies — they have
been the strongest that they’ve ever been — and make sure that we are
providing what Ukraine — the brave people of Ukraine need as they’re
fighting aggression — Putin’s aggression.

And that is what this President has — has been able to do. His — his
experience as former senator, as former vice president, and now a
president has gotten us to a place where we’ve been able to turn things
around in a way that we meet the needs of the American people, whether
it’s domestic issues or national security issues, and that is what
matters.

Q And —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: That re- — part of the report does not live in reality.

Bye, everybody. Have a great weekend.

2:51 P.M. EST
