---
date: '2024-02-01'
modified_time: 2024-02-01 16:52:52-05:00
published_time: 2024-02-01 16:52:51-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/02/01/press-gaggle-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-and-nsc-coordinator-for-strategic-communications-john-kirby-en-route-detroit-mi/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Gaggle by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre and NSC Coordinator for\
  \ Strategic Communications John Kirby En Route Detroit,\_MI"
---
 
Aboard Air Force One  
En Route Detroit, Michigan

1:32 P.M. EST

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: All right. Good afternoon, everybody. So, I just have
one quick thing at the top.

So, after decades of opposition and without the support of a single
Republican in Congress, President Biden enacted a law that finally takes
on Big Pharma and gives Medicare the power to negotiate drug prices.

President Biden’s Inflation Reduction Act will save millions of seniors
on some of the — the costliest prescription drugs on the market. And
today, Medicare will send initial offers to manufacturers of the first
10 drugs selected for drug price negotia- — negotiation to help bring
down the price of these prescription drugs.

This is the first time ever that Medicare is not accepting the drug
prices the pharmaceutical companies set. The Drug Price Negotiation
program is a prime example of the ways President Biden is working to
lower costs for American families. And he won’t stop fighting for
results, even as Republicans in Congress continue to try to repeal the
Inflation Reduction Act, cut Medicare and Social Security benefits and
ins- — and insurance for millions, and keep — keep healthcare costs
high.

The administration remains focused on continuing to protect these
programs and deliver lower costs for seniors and hardworking families.

And one more thing — I know folks are asking about this — as it relates
to the dignified transfer tomorrow. So, we’re working with the families,
and we’ll respect their wishes, as you all can understand. We’ll have
more information, obviously, on what tomorrow will look like, as we
normally do, in the daily guidance, which will be released later this
evening.

And so, with that, I have my co- — my colleague here, Admiral John
Kirby, to discuss the executive order the President signed today.

Admiral.

MR. KIRBY: Thank you, Karine. Just before I get to that, right before
leaving Washington, the President placed a call to the European
Commissioner — European Commission President, Ursula von der Leyen, to
thank her and the E- — the European Union for a significant financial
aid package that they just approved for Ukraine, some $50 billion, which
will go a long way to helping Ukraine as they continue to battle back
against Russia’s aggression.

And then, just briefly, today, on the — on the executive order. I think
you all saw that today the President signed a new executive order that
will implement new measures to address actions that undermine peace,
security, and stability in the West Bank.

This EO will allow the United States to issue financial sanctions
against those directing or participating in certain actions, including
acts or threats of violence against civilians, intimidating civilians to
cause them to leave their homes, destroying or seizing property, or
engaging in terrorist activity in the West Bank.

And the State Department also today issued four designations under this
new executive authority, and — and that’s all public. And you guys, I’m
sure, have seen that.

I do want to remind that this executive order came in the heels of a —
of a Cabinet memo issued by Jake Sullivan back in November, directing
departments and agencies to — to take appropriate action and to develop
further policy options for dealing with the violence — the settler
violence in the West Bank. And that was followed in December by
Secretary Blinken announcing visa restrictions for certain individuals
who are involved in this violence.

So, again, the President has spoken very, very clearly on this since the
very beginning — that the settler violence in the West Bank is
unacceptable, and we’ll continue to examine tools at our disposal to
deal with it.

That’s it.

Q John, how do you determine the four people when there are hundreds of
incidents against West Bank Palestinians? Do you expect there to be
more, including on Israeli government officials? And is this a signal to
them who support — openly support and facilitate these violence?

MR. KIRBY: There’s no plans to target with sanctions Israeli government
officials at this time. I’d refer you to State to speak about how they
chose these four individuals. This was an initial set of designations.
I’m not going to preview whether there will be more or not going
forward, but it is a new tool that we’re going to take a look at using
appropriately.

And I think I lost your — you had one more question.

Q Yeah, I mean, is this a signal to those officials in the Israeli
government who openly support and facilitate such violence, including
Itamar Ben-Gvir, who’s — who supply the weapons to these people who
perpetrate?

MR. KIRBY: I think — I think it’s a signal to the whole world how
seriously President Biden takes this violence against the set- — the
settler violence against Palestinians in the West Bank. He’s been very,
very clear on that for a long, long time. It’s got to stop. It’s
unacceptable. It’s a — it’s a detriment to peace and security, certainly
there in the West Bank but to the Palestinian people in general.

Q Does the — is there any significance to the timing around the EO,
particularly as sentiment grows in the U.S.  
regarding the U.S. position in Gaza?

MR. KIRBY: As I said, I mean, this — this process of looking at tools at
our disposal really started in November with Jake’s memo. That led to
visa restrictions, and then that led to work with the Treasury
Department and the State Department on another tool. And the tool is —
that we’re choosing today is this EO that will authorize sanctions.

So, again, it all really stems from Jake’s memo back in November to
direct agencies to take a look at what tools we have at our disposal.

Q Is the — the EU deal, does that give any breathing room for the U.S.
to continue negotiations for the border and Ukraine? You know, the
funding that has — that — the EU funding for Ukraine, does that provide
any cover, you know, as the U.S. continues to negotiate for the border?

MR. KIRBY: So, a couple of things, I mean, it’s a financial aid package.

Q Yeah.

MR. KIRBY: It’s not designed for security assistance. And it’s certainly
going to be welcome to the Ukrainian people, no question about it,
because it will help alleviate some of the financial strains that
they’re already under. And so, again, we — we welcome it.

But it’s not a substitute for American leadership when it comes to
security assistance. And that is why it’s so critical for us to continue
to urge Congress to pass that national security supplemental. There’s
$60 billion-plus in there for security assistance for Ukraine.

As I’ve said many times, it was carefully arrived at. The Ukrainians
need it. And we need Congress to act on it.

(Cross-talk.)

Q Just quickly, did President Biden tell Prime Minister Netanyahu the
executive order was coming?

MR. KIRBY: We informed the Israeli government before it was announced.

Q Was it conveyed at that level, though?

MR. KIRBY: We informed the Israeli government before it was announced.

Q Real quick, just to follow up on the — on the timing. I understand
you’re saying that Jake, you know, issued a memo in November. But the
issue with settlers goes way back even before the October 7th attacks.

MR. KIRBY: It sure does. Yeah.

Q Why did the administration, you know, never take any actions and is
only doing so now? I mean, is this a sign of political pressure to
appear a certain way? Is that — is that why the EO is finally coming
through?

MR. KIRBY: No, not at all. A couple of thoughts here. First of all, to —
to work on sanctions through an EO and sanctions designation — sorry, I
just hit your mic — you know, that takes time to develop the — the tool
itself and then to choose who and how you’re going to designate entities
or individuals.

I mean, there’s a — there’s a lot of just administrative staff work that
goes in to the — to building of sanctions as a — as a tool and the
designations that go with it. So, I mean, this was a — this was a long
time in train.

And again, what — what you’re really seeing now from us — the visa
restrictions, these sanctions — it’s an outgrowth of the — of the
dramatic increase in settler violence —

Q (Inaudible.)

MR. KIRBY: — or violence on set- — sorry, settler violence on
Palestinians in the West Bank, which have — has been a result of the
attacks on the 7th of October.

Q Is the — is the increase significant? And is that what the U.S.
government is watching?

MR. KIRBY: Yes, this is — this is a direct answer to the dramatic
increase in violence that we’ve seen by settlers on Palestinians in the
West Bank —

Q John —

MR. KIRBY: — since the 7th of October.

Q Kirby, should we expect any forthcoming remarks or speech or comments
from the President? There’s been a lot of activity in the Middle East:
There’s this new executive order today; the death of U.S. service
members — obviously, we know he’s going to the dignified transfer
tomorrow; massive protests today in — in Washington, around the White
House and downtown, closing bridges. I’m just wondering if the President
is considering addressing the nation about the events that have unfolded
in the region but also here in — in the States over the past few days?

MR. KIRBY: He has kept up a pretty steady drumbeat, I think, of talking
to the American people and to our — our allies and partners around the
world, publicly and privately.

And I would — while I don’t have anything on schedule to speak to in
terms of a set piece event, I have every expectation that you’ll
continue to hear from him about what’s going on in the Middle East.

Q John, can you give us an update? There’s some reporting that the U.S.
has selected sites for its response to the fatal attack —

MR. KIRBY: I don’t —

Q — including Iranian sites in Iraq and Syria. Is there anything you can
share?

MR. KIRBY: No, I can’t. I’m not going to —

Q Can you say whether the President has made a decision, or is this
still a deliberative point?

MR. KIRBY: I — I’m not going to telegraph punches, as I’ve — as I’ve
said before. I’m not going to get into speaking about potential future
military operations one way or the other. That would be the worst thing
I could possibly do.

The President has made his decision about responding. Options were
presented to him. He made his choices and — and his decisions. And — and
we’re going to — and we’re going to move out.

As I said the other day — or yesterday — this will be a multitiered
approach over — over a period of time. The first thing you see will not
be the last thing you see.

Q Any update on negotiations to bring the hostages back?

MR. KIRBY: No updates for you today. I mean, the work continues. We’re —
we’re very actively involved in these discussions, but I don’t have a
specific update for you.

Q Admiral, on the timing of this. You know, we saw the three troops
unfortunately killed this week. Why are we waiting now to do something?
Why — why was there no action before when there were these increased
attacks on U.S. troops in the Middle East? What’s — why are we doing
action now as opposed to before?

MR. KIRBY: My goodness. There’s been a lot of action. I mean, the — the
— as the attacks have — have continued against our troops in Iraq and
Syria, you have seen us respond swiftly and appropriately. And as matter
of fact, in previous retaliatory strikes that we have taken, you’ve seen
us go evermore after the IRG \[IRGC\] specifically and IRGC targets. So,
we have —

Q Things have ramped up now. Talks are — talks are ramping up now.

MR. KIRBY: Talks are ramping up?

Q About the President saying he’s picked a — you know, he’s made
decisions about this.

MR. KIRBY: Look, I can’t speak for why certain officials think it’s in —
in anybody’s best interest to get out there and — and be speculating in
public with anonymity about military operations in the future. I think
that’s highly irresponsible.

What I can tell you is that — that we have taken this threat seriously
from the beginning. And the — the attacks have been appropriate, and
they have been more aggressive in — in recent weeks and months by us, is
what I’m talking about.

And now, as I said the other day, there are three American soldiers that
were killed, and we have three grieving families. So, if there’s
escalation here, it’s an escalation on the part of these militia groups.

Q John, Chinese warships are reportedly escorting commercial cargo
vessels transiting through the Red Sea. How does the administration view
these naval escorts? And has there been any coordination between the
Chinese and — and us?

MR. KIRBY: I know of no coordination between the PRC, the PLA Navy, and
the U.S. Navy or the coalition in the Red Sea. I’m not aware of — I
can’t validate reports that they’re escorting. I had not heard that
reporting.

Q But if that were true, would this be something that the U.S. approves
of?

MR. KIRBY: Look, we’ve said many times that if the Chinese want to be
helpful to this effort about protecting shipping in the Red Sea, then we
would certainly welcome that. But I can’t verify those reports.

Q Kirby, there’s a report from my colleague that precision equipment for
Russian arm makers came from Taiwan. Have you seen the report? Is the
White House aware?

MR. KIRBY: No, sir, I have not seen that. I can — but I’ll take the
question.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Go ahead (inaudible), Admiral.

Q A couple of Republicans in Congress have called on the Speaker to put
forward an aid bill for Israel without any offsets or IRS cuts of any
kind. Is that something the White House would support, a standalone
Israel aid bill?

MR. KIRBY: We submitted the national security supplemental as a package
— you know, Ukraine, Israel, Indo-Pacific, and border security — because
all those things are important to the President. He believes they’re all
important to our national security. And that’s the approach that we’re
taking with Congress right now, to work on that package of — of funding
for all four of those — those areas. That’s — that’s where our head is
right now.

Q I’m not sure which of you can answer. But can you say whether the
President will speak to the Arab American community or the Muslim
American community while in Michigan? And if not, what is his message —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, look —

Q — more broadly, to them?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, a couple of things I do want to make sure that you
all have, which is that the trip today in Michigan, obviously, is a
political trip. I said this yesterday at the podium. It’s organized —

Bye, Admiral. (Laughter.)

(Cross-talk.)

Q He ran away.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: He’s like, “Okay, I’m out of here.”

— which is, obviously, organized by — by the campaign. And so, I’m going
to let them speak to the trip itinerary. I believe they did a background
call yesterday. So, I’m sure you all have that information.

But I do want to say, more broadly, that the President has met with
Americans with varying opinions about the conflict between Israel and
Hamas, obviously — something that I’ve mentioned many times at the
podium. Officials at the White House are also in regular contact with
Muslim and Arab American leaders in Michigan and across the country.

And as part of those ongoing conversation that the Biden — the
Biden-Harris administration is having and the outreach, obviously, that
we’re doing to the Muslim and Arab American communities, senior Biden
administration officials will travel to Michigan in February — we’re in
February now — to hear directly from community leaders on a range of
issues that are important to them and their families, including the
conflict in Israel and — and Gaza.

So, I don’t have any additional details at this time, but obviously,
when — when we’re able to share more information, we will. But as I just
stated, we do have White House officials —

Q Can you —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: — that are — that are planning to go out to Michigan in
— in the next couple of days, if not — if not — several weeks, if not a
couple of days, to — to Michigan.

Q Karine, two senators —

Q Could you be specific of who they are?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I — we’ll have more to share. I don’t have specific on
who — specifics on who those folks will be.

Q And has the President engaged —

Q You got two senators — you’ve got two senators and one congressmember
on this flight. Were invitations extended to the entire Michigan
delegation for this trip?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, we normally extend invitation to — to both — both
sides of the aisle, Republicans and Democrats, when we travel into the
state. Obviously, when it comes to the congressional member, it’s
usually — the person that usually comes is the person’s district that
we’re going into. So, we usually have the two senators and then
congressional members — usually the person that represents that state —
that district — pardon me.

Q How is his relationship with Congressmember Rashida Tlaib, who is
clearly upset and, you know, representing a lot of her constituents who
are also upset?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah, which we — we’ve said — we’ve said many times
that we understand how difficult this is for many — obviously, many
different communities around this time as we’re seeing what’s happening
in the Middle East, more specifically with Israel and Hamas. And we
understand. We get that.

And — but, look, I’m not going to get into — we don’t — you know, we
don’t speak to every private conversation that the President — that the
President has with members of Congress. Obviously, he has a long —
long-standing relationships with many members of Congress because of —
because of his own career — 36 years as Senator, 8 years as Vice
President, as you all know, and being President for the past 3 years.
So, just not going to get into private — private discussion.

Q Karine, a quick couple —

Q Sorry. Was she invited and didn’t come, or was it just that
Congresswoman Dingell was invited because it’s her district?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Well, I’m just saying that we normally extend invites.
And so, the — the folks that normally come for the — for congressional
districts are usually the person who — who represents that district. But
I — you know, the Office of Leg Affairs usually extends invites to both
— both sides of — both folks — Republicans and Democrats. But we’re —
we’re not going into Congresswoman Tlaib’s district, obviously.

Q Just to follow up on that, Karine.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah.

Q Is the President meeting with any Arab American community leaders
today?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I don’t have any meetings to speak to at this time.
Obviously, this is a political meeting. All of the arrangement for it —
a political trip, to more — to be more precise — all — this entire trip
was done and organized by the campaign. So, any specifics on that — I
think they’ve actually spoke to that when — when they did a backgrounder
yesterday. And so, I would let — I would let the campaign —

Q They did not do a backgrounder yesterday.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Or they put out a background — they put out —

Q They — we just saw the note, but it didn’t have any details.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Okay. Okay, when they put out a note on this particular
trip — a background note on this particular trip. So, they will have
that information as to how — why they — you know, what’s going to happen
today and how they led that — how they kind of put that together. I just
can’t speak to a campaign —

Q Can you speak to the event after the UAW event? Is that a fundraiser?
Is that meetings with —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: It’s all —

Q — the community? Is that —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: It’s all a political trip. You would have to ask the —
you have to ask the campaign who (inaudible).

Q Just a general guidance policy. When the President travels, the White
House often puts out detailed guidance of where he’s going. Even if
it’s, you know, a fundraiser that’s closed door, it will say the city.
The guidance for this travel has all been “greater Detroit area.”

Is there a specific reason why the White House is not being fully
transparent about where the President is going specifically today?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I mean, I don’t have anything to share. I mean, what we
have in the guidance is what we have in a guidance to share with all of
you. I don’t have any — I don’t have any specifics on that.

Q Was there a specific decision today? Was there concerns about why the
White House would not put out — obviously, there’s been a lot of
protesters around —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Not that — I mean — I mean, honestly, not that — not —

Q — (inaudible) —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: — not that I’m tracking. Not that I’m tracking.

Q Can I just follow up on —

Q Can former President Trump — I’m sorry. Go ahead.

Q May I just follow up on Nandita’s question on the timing. This EO —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: The timing of — oh, the EO.

Q The EO.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah.

Q I mean, we heard about the EO. We heard about the background call on
the EO maybe like 15 minutes before it came out. And, you know, we were
just — I was just wondering whether it had anything to do with a
Michigan trip so that the President can say something to American
Muslims and Arab (inaudible).

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I mean, you heard from the Admiral. He said that this —
these types of things — these types of sanctions take a long time.
They’re not easy to do. They don’t turn around very quickly. These take
time.

So, I don’t — I don’t have a timeline for you. This is something that,
obviously, the State Department can speak directly to.

But these types of sanctions — when we do sanctions, they do take a —
when, especially in this — in this particular instance — the State
Department and other agencies that do sanctions like the Treasury or the
Department of Justice — it takes time.

Q Yesterday —

Q Karine, just on — like, just your — the President’s personal reaction
to, you know, the families in Michigan who’ve lost relatives in Gaza who
are now refusing to meet him? There’s now the “abandon Biden,” you know,
campaign that’s kind of taking off. What is his personal reaction to
what’s happening in Michigan right now? And, you know, is he going to
stop and talk to protestors? You know, is he like — you know, how is he
thinking about today? And what’s his message?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I mean, the President has always been very clear that —
and I’ve said — I just said it moments ago, that he believes Americans
have the right to share their varying views and varying opinions on
situations, just as long as it’s peaceful. We’ve been very clear about
that.

And we also understand that, you know, this is a difficult time. We get
that. I mean, this is a President that understands that.

I don’t have anything else more to share. I think people have a right to
share their views, again, just as long as it’s peaceful.

We’ve been very clear about where we stand on what’s going on in Israel
and Hamas, as far as believing that Israel does have the right to defend
itself, just as long as — it followed the — they have to follow
international humanitarian law. And we’ve had conversations with them,
obviously, from the top — from the top down, from different — obviously
from the National Security Council and also with State — the State
Department and the President himself have been continuing in those
diplomatic conversations.

And, look — and we see what’s going on. We see what’s going on — the
lives that are being lost by innocent Palestinians. We have to remember
that Hamas is a terrorist organization. And sadly, what they do is they
embed themselves in — you know, in infrastructure where folks live, in
hospitals. And it is — it is what they do.

And so, look, the President, again, understands this is a difficult time
but also believes that — that folks have the right to — you know,
Americans have the right to view their opinions.

Q So, there’s a lot —

Q Trump said yesterday that he would block the Nippon Steel takeover of
U.S. Steel. Does the White House have any comment on that or any update
on the timeline of that review? Would it still be ongoing by the time —
past either the inauguration of a second Biden term or otherwise?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, I want to be careful on commenting on everything
that the candidate — because he is a candidate —

Q Right.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: — Donald Trump says.

I think, as it relates to the review, I don’t have a timeline for you.
It’s ongoing. I just don’t — I can’t say much more — much more than
that.

Q I have a question on Venezuela, Karine. It’s actually for Kirby before
he escaped. Can you confirm that the U.S. government is holding back
delivery — no, sorry, that’s not it. (Laughter.)

Can you confirm reporting of a years-long U.S. operation sending
undercov- — undercover operatives into Venezuela to build
drug-trafficking cases against the country’s leadership? This just came
out today.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, I — I don’t have anything to share on that at this
time. Obviously, we can look into it.

Q Can you have the answer to — a follow-up —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah. Yeah, we’ll get that answer and follow up with
you.

Q And then just one more (inaudible).

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah.

Q Can you confirm that the U.S. government is holding back delivery of
31 SeaGuardian and SkyGuardian drones to India until they carry out a
meaningful investigation into the conspiracy to assassinate Gurpatwant
Singh Pannun?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I just don’t have anything to say on that. I can’t
confirm —

Q Karine, yesterday, President Trump met with the Teamsters. We
understand that the union has also extended an invite to President
Biden. Is he confident he’s going to win that endorsement? When is that
meeting coming through? Is he — is he talking to the Teamsters
leadership? I would imagine there are a lot of conversations underway —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah.

Q — right now.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, I want to be really careful about talking about any
endorsement. That’s something that the campaign can speak to.

Oh, we are being told to sit down. We’re about to land.

So, I don’t want to speak to — to that. That is something that I would —

Q When is the meeting? When is he meeting?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I don’t have any — a meeting to — to read out to you at
this time.

Q Karine, really fast — there’s a poll out where Americans are viewing
the economy in a much more favorable light, but they’re not attributing
it to any of the President’s policies. I mean, I don’t know what’s —
what to say.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I mean, look, the consumer confidence is going up.
That’s really important. And it’s because of what the President has
done. Bidenomics is — is working. Unemployment is under 4 percent.
Fourteen million jobs. He’s going to continue to lowering cost.

And so, we know — economists have said — it takes a long time to make
that connection.

But consumer — consumer confidence is up, and that’s what matters and
that’s what we want to continue to see.

All right, guys (inaudible).

Q Thank you, Karine.

1:54 P.M. EST
