---
date: '2024-02-08'
modified_time: 2024-02-08 13:18:57-05:00
published_time: 2024-02-08 13:18:56-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/02/08/background-press-call-on-bilateral-engagements-and-the-trilateral-fentanyl-committees-fourth-meeting-in-mexico/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Background Press Call on Bilateral Engagements and the Trilateral Fentanyl\
  \ Committee\u2019s Fourth Meeting in\_Mexico"
---
 
Via Teleconference

9:06 A.M. EST

MODERATOR:  Thank you so much.  Good morning, everyone.  And thank you
so much for joining us on this call this morning to discuss the
bilateral engagements and the Trilateral Fentanyl Committee’s fourth
meeting in Mexico, which was led by the White House Homeland Security
Advisor, Dr. Liz Sherwood-Randall.

As a reminder, this call is on background, attributable to senior
administration officials, and it will be embargoed until the end of the
call.

For your awareness, not for reporting purposes, on the line we have
\[senior administration official\], \[senior administration official\],
\[senior administration official\] from the Department of Homeland
Security.  From Department of Justice, we have \[senior administration
official\].  And from the State Department Bureau of International
Narcotics and Law Enforcement, we have \[senior administration
official\].

And with that, I will turn it to \[senior administration official\] to
give us just brief toplines on the trip’s first day.

Over to you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Good morning.  And thank you, Vanessa. 

On February 6th to 7th, Homeland Security Advisor Dr. Elizabeth
Sherwood-Randall led an interagency delegation to Mexico.  She was
accompanied by Deputy Attorney General Lisa Monaco, Deputy Secretary of
State for Management and Resources Richard Verma, Acting Deputy
Secretary of Homeland Security Kristie Canegallo, and Deputy Director of
the Office of National Drug Control Policy Adam Cohen, as well as
Tiffany, my colleague, and I accompanied the delegation as well as other
representatives from the State Department, the Department of Justice,
Department of Homeland Security, and of course, our ambassador and
members of the embassy team.

The focus of our bilateral engagements was to continue what has been a
consistent, constructive, and candid dialogue between our two countries
and to strengthen cooperation with Mexican partners on a range of
topics, including managing hemispheric migration, countering traffic of
illicit drugs and weapons, as well as regional coordination efforts on
the same.

On the first day, Dr. Sherwood-Randall and our Ambassador to Mexico Ken
Salazar met with Mexican President Andrés Manuel López Obrador and
Foreign Secretary Alicia Bárcena, which was intended for the president
and our Homeland Security Advisor to build — to follow up on the
conversations between President Joe Biden and President López Obrador on
February 3rd.

I won’t say more than — beyond what was in the readout yesterday, except
to say that it was a long and substantive discussion on a range of
topics and incredibly productive and constructive from our perspective.

Now, following that meeting, the full interagency delegation then met
with counterparts of the Mexican security cabinet to review progress
made through our joint efforts and to determine a number of next steps. 

So, on that end, we agreed to two concrete steps: to increase
information and data sharing between the United States and Mexico — to
increase the already existing relationship we have on information and
data sharing to facilitate action against criminal organizations that
traffic people, guns, and illicit drugs, including fentanyl, into our
communities; and agreed to a specific set of timelines so that we keep
ourselves on track, accountable, and delivering for our peoples of the
country.

When I mention “specific,” we are, you know, obviously sharing
information actively with the Mexicans.  We’ve agreed to basically track
the same metrics and really, kind of, measure our own progress against
the metrics that we’re setting for ourselves.

I’ll leave it at that so we have more time for questions.  Back to you,
Vanessa.

MODERATOR:  Thank you so much one.  At this moment, I’ll turn it over to
\[senior administration official\] to go over day two.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Hey, good morning.  Thank you all for
joining us.

So, yesterday, Mexico’s Secretary of Security and Citizen Protection
Rosa Icela Rodríguez hosted White House Homeland Security Advisor Dr.
Liz Sherwood-Randall and Canada’s Deputy Clerk and National Security and
Intelligence Advisor Nathalie Drouin in the fourth meeting of the
Trilateral Fentanyl Committee to review progress on our commitments and
discuss further joint actions to stem the flow of illicit synthetic
drugs and firearms trafficking.

By way of background, President Biden, President López Obrador, and
Prime Minister Trudeau established the Trilateral Fentanyl Committee in
January of last year, during the North American Leaders’ Summit, to
guide party actions to address the threat from illicit synthetic drugs,
notably fentanyl, in North America.

At the meeting yesterday, we all agreed that this is a shared threat not
only for countries in North America but around the globe.  We also
agreed we must not wait to act — to continue to act until this becomes
an even bigger crisis in our homes, communities, and countries.

We will be issuing a joint communiqué shortly on the meeting, but I’ll
take a few minutes just to go over actionable, concrete steps our three
countries committed to.

So, first, we committed to increasing collaboration on the control of
precursor chemicals and equipment related to illicit drug production. 

Second, we agreed to continuously review our legal framework to identify
areas for improvement and to close any identified gaps.

Thirdly, we agreed to further engage the private sector to combat the
production of illicit synthetic drugs and highlight legal risks.

Fourth, to strengthen diplomatic efforts to build on the progress of the
Global Coalition to Address Synthetic Drug Threats and with other
countries around the world.

Fifth, to develop and implement a common drug and substances analysis
protocol, which will allow toxicologists from all three countries to
improve our understanding of regional drug trends.

Sixth, to convene a forum to discuss strategies and their implementation
for assisting the long-term recovery of individuals with substance use
disorders.

Seven, to expand the scope of the Trilateral Fentanyl Committee to
address firearms trafficking under the auspices of the North American
Drug Dialogue.

Eight, to commit to developing a trilateral report that documents
cross-border firearm seizures in all three countries to better inform
our strategies and actions.

Nine, to commit to increase our use of the ATF’s eTrace Database to
allow for more and faster joint investigations into the illicit
trafficking of firearms across our shared borders.

And finally, tenth, both Mexico and Canada committed to embed personnel
at the U.S. Customs and Border Protection National Targeting Center to
increase and expedite information sharing on criminals and illicit
activities associated with the trafficking of both fentanyl and
firearms.

And then, finally, the group committed to meet again sometime in the
spring, most likely in Canada.

MODERATOR:  Thank you so much.  With that, I think we’re going to go
straight into questions.  I recognize that we started a few moments
late, so we’re going to go straight into questions.

Just a friendly reminder to our friends on the line that we will keep
questions focused on this trip to Mexico.  You can ask about on
bilateral engagements with our Mexican partners and the Trilateral
Fentanyl Committee’s fourth meeting with the Mexican and Canadian
partners.

Please, I know that there might be questions about ongoing negotiations
on the Hill.  We ask kindly that we keep the questions focused on the
trip.

With that, Candace, over to you to give our friends on the line the
instructions on how to ask questions.  Over.

We’ll go first to Rafael Bernal from the Hill. 

Q    Hi.  Thank you for having this.  A couple of quick questions.  And
I don’t mean to be flip about this, but is the joint communiqué going to
address democratic decline in Mexico?

And related question: You know, there’s been a lot of allegations of
corruption in — and drug-related corruption in President López Obrador’s
immediate circle.  That’s made a lot of noise lately.  Does that affect
the level of confidence in which you can engage in deals with that
government?  And obviously, you know, he’s not doing all the work with
his immediate and broader circles.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  I can take the first one, and then my
colleagues can jump in on the others.

So, thanks, Rafael.  The topic of democratic governance is not in the
statement because it was not the focus of the conversation.  We focused
strictly on trilateral fentanyl cooperation and a number of other
topics, which are the purview of the Homeland Security Advisor.

But we engage in wide-ranging discussions directly with the Mexicans on
these topics, so I would not read into its exclusion as something that
is deprioritized.  It just wasn’t the subject of the meeting.

MODERATOR:  \[Senior administration official\], do you want to take the
second one?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Sure.  This is \[senior administration
official\] from DOJ. 

The Deputy Attorney General had productive conversations with Attorney
General Gertz and also members of the Mexican security cabinet.  And the
issue that you flagged was never raised because what we were talking
about was how we’re going to work going forward on countering fentanyl
and firearms trafficking.

MODERATOR:  Thank you very much.  We’ll go to José Díaz from the
Reforma.

Q    Thank you so much.  On January 19, President Biden told the U.S.
Conference of Mayors that fentanyl flows to the U.S. had slowed down. 
Can you provide some metrics to back up that statement?  Because we
haven’t gotten any.

And did you address — sorry, did the National \[sic\] Security Advisor
address the complaints by the Mexican president during that meeting
regarding these stories and ProPublica and other outlets about his
potential involvement — sorry, the potential involvement of drug money
in his first presidential campaign?  Thank you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  \[Senior administration official\], do
you want me to do the second part?  And then somebody can take fentanyl.

Really quickly, just — look, on the second part, we’re not going to get
into the details of the internal conversations between the Homeland
Security Advisor and the president.

Again, I think the focus of the discussion that we had, either — both in
the bilateral meeting and the trilateral fentanyl discussion — was on
strengthening already excellent cooperation that we have with the
Mexicans on a number of topics, including law enforcement cooperation,
migration, and just broader regional efforts to address the root causes
of migration.

So we were focused on building on a very strong foundation of
cooperation that we built.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Hi, this is \[senior administration
official\] from State Department.  I can address the first part of the
question if you’d like.

MODERATOR:  Please go ahead, \[senior administration official\].

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Okay, thanks.

What we believe we are seeing is more of a flattening of the numbers of
fentanyl, but we are watching them month by month, and we judge it on an
annual basis from summer to summer.  So I think we will have a much
better idea later this summer.  But we have seen the numbers flatten, I
would say, so we are hoping that will lead to a decline.

However, you know, nearing 110,000 drug overdose deaths total, with
about 70 percent of those coming from synthetic drugs, including
fentanyl — it’s still way too high.  So we have some work to do. 

Over.

MODERATOR:  Thanks, \[senior administration official\].  Thanks,
\[senior administration official\].

We’ll go next to Colleen Long from the AP.

Q    Hi there.  Thank you for doing the call.  I have two questions.

So, the first one is: You were talking about how to measure success.  I
just wondered if you could go into that a little bit more, because I
assume it’s more than just, like, you know, fentanyl product seized. 
And I know that it’s often really difficult to sort of, like, prove a
negative if there are fewer instances of fentanyl — how do you know if
you’re succeeding.  So I was kind of curious about, like, how the
measurements would work.

And then, I know that you guys can’t necessarily get into this, but I
just have to ask if this — you know, how these

efforts to sort of combat fentanyl may or may not be affected by, you
know, whatever lack of funding is happening thanks to Congress.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Look, thanks.  On the metrics — and,
\[senior administration official\], you may want to add to this as
well.  Look, you’re exactly right that, you know, we’re not — it’s not
necessarily effective to measure very, kind of, singular outcomes,
metrics.  A lot of the metrics that we are basically discussing with the
Mexicans reflect what is incredibly complex and sophisticated
cooperation that we have in information sharing, in how we actually
approach law enforcement operations, you know, how we actually allocate
our investment resources.

And so, a lot of this is really just part of our internal planning
process to ensure that, you know, when it comes to whether it’s
information sharing at the ports, whether it is information on law
enforcement operations in the United States that can benefit Mexico, or
the other way around, trying to arrive at common metrics to show that
our cooperation is improving.  It also gives us good insights into how
we’re disrupting the functioning of transnational criminal
organizations, a sense of where the flowing — the trafficking routes
are.

So a lot of it is really trying to make sure that when we are engaging
as robustly and as actively as we are with the Mexicans, that we’re
basically comparing apples to apples and oranges to oranges to improve
how we can actually adjust to what is, you know, criminal organizations
that are evolving and adapting rapidly.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  To add to what \[senior administration
official\] said, that, you know, what the Biden-Harris administration
has been really focused on is on saving American lives.  And when we
meet with our partners in Canada and Mexico, that’s what we’re focused
on doing, is saving the lives of our citizens in all three countries
from the scourge of both fentanyl and firearms.

And so, what we’ve been focused on is taking a whole series of actions,
both in this context with Mexico and Canada and stopping the flow of
fentanyl and firearms, as well as doing things on the public health
side, trying to make lifesaving treatments more available to members of
the population of the United States, et cetera.  So I think it’s a whole
host of actions.

And we have seen some progress on that front by, kind of, the flattening
of the curve of the number of individuals in the United States that are
dying from overdose deaths.

And so, this is just kind of one piece of everything that we are doing
in the U.S. context to try and save American lives, working with our
partners in Mexico and Canada, and tackling this shared threat in a
global context through things like the global coalition that I mentioned
and others, because this really is — the synthetic drug threat really is
a global threat.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  This is \[senior administration
official\] at State, if I can just add on to what \[senior
administration official\] was saying.

Mexico is actually playing a very active role in the global coalition. 
They are the co-chair of the working group on health issues, which is a
priority for them, which has been great.  We have worked with them and
other countries, and have — to identify emerging threats as well,
because while it’s fentanyl right now, it isn’t just fentanyl; it’s a
polydrug problem — it’s fentanyl mixed with other drugs.

And together with Mexico and other countries, we have already identified
that liquid fentanyl, which is medical grade and not as lethal, is being
introduced into the illicit market in the hopes of trying to hook
additional people.

So the work that we are doing with Mexico, Canada, and everyone else in
the global coalition is already starting to pay dividends just in
information sharing and exchanges, but we also will have a lot of
projects we’ll work on with them together. 

Mexico has also been very supportive in the multilateral fora.  They
participated in an event with the Secretary of State at the U.N. General
Assembly.  They have supported us in resolutions, saying that this is a
global threat that requires global action, and also in getting
additional precursors scheduled at the U.N. Commission on Narcotic
Drugs.

Over.

MODERATOR:  Thank you, \[senior administration official\].  Super
helpful.

We’ll go next to José de Córdoba.  José, if you could remind us which
outlet you are from.  Thank you.

Q    Yes, hi.  This is José de Córdoba from the Wall Street Journal.

I have two questions.  Last year, people in the Sinaloa cartel said they
were stopping fentanyl trafficking in the areas they control around
Culiacan.  Some dealers were killed.  Some labs were shut down.  Is that
continuing?  And if so, has the Sinaloa cartel stopped trafficking
fentanyl?  And if so, who has taken up the slack?  That’s one question.

The second question is: Does Mexico — the Mexican government accept that
there are fentanyl labs operating in Mexico?

MODERATOR:  Perhaps \[senior administration official\] can start off
with the first, or (inaudible), and then \[senior administration
official\] can take the second one.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  This is \[senior administration
official\] from DOJ.

So, on the first question about whether Sinaloa has stopped fentanyl
production, I’ll say that that topic also did not come up during our
meetings with the Mexicans.  We were focused on stopping fentanyl
crossing the border from Mexico into the United States and the joint
efforts we can take there, wherever the fentanyl is coming from, from
whatever drug-trafficking organization is peddling it across the border.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, and I would just underscore what
my colleague from DOJ said — is that the focus of the conversation was
really on expanding our cooperation to deliver outcomes.  And so, we
didn’t — we really actually focused on increasing those areas of
collaboration.  And I think that was the focus of the discussion.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Hey, this is \[senior administration
official\].  So the one thing I would add to what my colleagues have
said is that, you know, regardless of what Sinaloa has said publicly, we
know that fentanyl is still continuing to come across our border into
the United States.  We’re continuing to see fentanyl that is entering
the United States, both in powder and pill format. 

So I think that just emphasizes the need for these meetings and, kind
of, for our continued cooperation on these issues.

MODERATOR:  All right, is there — hearing no other comments from our
speakers, I’ll go to our last question.

Jesus Esquivel, can you remind us — are you ProPublica?

Q    Hi, good morning.  This is Jesus Esquivel from Proceso Magazine of
Mexico.

I have two questions to \[senior administration official\].  Foreign
Minister of Mexico Bárcena said, even though that you say you’re going
to talk about the details, that the U.S. government in these meetings —
the case of (inaudible) involvement of drug money in the campaign was
closed.

And secondly, it was a discussion with regard to the argument of the
Mexican government that has been illegal traffic of military weapons
from the U.S. and Mexico?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Happy to answer that, Jesus.

Look, so I think what you’re referring to is the press conference the
foreign secretary gave after the meetings.  And she was saying that what
she said (inaudible) was referring to the — that it’s just not something
that — it was not the focus of the discussion, has not impacted the
bilateral relationship.  And, in fact, that was really the spirit of the
conversations, was building on what has been an excellent foundation
that we’ve built since 2021.

And, you know, can you repeat the second part of the question?

Q    If there was any discussion of the argument of the Mexican
government that has been illegal traffic of military weapons from the
U.S. to Mexico.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, I’ll let DOJ speak to that.  We
can step in as well.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Hi, this is \[senior administration
official\].

So, that topic, we did discuss the trafficking of weapons from the
United States to Mexico.  Obviously, it’s a large problem and one that
we have an obligation and that we would like to assist both United
States citizens and Mexican citizens with stopping.  The idea of
trafficking of military weapons into Mexico came up.  We discussed it. 
And there’s no evidence that military weapons from the United States are
being trafficked into Mexico.

MODERATOR:  All right, I see we have one more question from José from
the Wall Street Journal.  We’ll go to José.

Q    Yes, hi.  The president of Mexico has many times said that there
are no fentanyl labs operating in Mexico.  I would assume that would
have an impact on cooperation between the two countries on how to deal
with fentanyl.  What is Mexico’s official position on that now?  What
does the U.S. think about it?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Hi, this is \[senior administration
official\].  You know, as to Mexico’s official position, we would, of
course, defer to the Mexican government to provide their official
position.

What I will say about our cooperation with Mexico is that it is very
strong across these issues.  I think the, kind of, series of due-outs
that I went over that will be in the joint communiqué today from the
Trilateral Fentanyl Committee is good evidence of that. 

And we know that our Mexican colleagues work very hard against this
threat on a daily basis, that they have made great sacrifices in this
fight — you know, the loss of their soldiers and policemen in this
fight.  And we recognize that and appreciate that. 

And we feel that we have a very strong partnership across all aspects of
this issue, from trying to shut down the flow of fentanyl across our
border to working on firearms to working together on the public health
aspect of this threat.

MODERATOR:  All right.  So we’ll have time for one last question.  We’ll
go to Teresa Cebrián.  Teresa, would you please remind us what outlet
you’re from?

Q    Hi, how are you?  Yes, this is Teresa from PBS NewsHour.

I want to talk about some reporting that fentanyl is primarily
trafficked by U.S. citizens.  This is something that Secretary of
Foreign Affairs Alicia Bárcena has also said.  I wanted to know if that
came up in your conversations and what you’re doing to address that. 
Thank you.

MODERATOR:  \[Senior administration official\] or \[senior
administration official, either of you want to start off with this one?

We might have lost them.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Let me jump in real quick, Vanessa,
just with some toplines on this.  This is \[senior administration
official\].

So, look, I think it’s important to note here that fentanyl trafficking
has an entire supply chain.  And we are, you know, focusing on the
cooperation on preventing the flow of precursor chemicals, some of which
are obviously dual-use.  On that, we’ve made incredible progress with
the Mexicans, focusing on the transnational criminal organizations that
are trafficking and involve the manufacturing of that — of fentanyl, and
then, of course, the trafficking across the border.

There have been some open-source reporting that the majority of the
trafficking comes in through points of entry.  That is largely
accurate.  And others are saying that primarily U.S. persons coming
across the border.  I think it’s important to, I think, note that the
criminal supply chain is one that is incredibly long and that we are
focusing on actually attacking the transnational criminal networks that
are involved in managing that entire supply chain.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  This is \[senior administration
official\]. 

To build off of what \[senior administration official\] was saying, you
know, this really is a — this is not just a threat to North America,
this is a global threat.  And this is why we are working not just with
our Mexican and Canadian partners, but our global partners through the
global coalition, as I mentioned previously. 

And we’ve also been working closely with the PRC.  As you all know, we
recently resumed counternarcotics cooperation with the PRC, sent a
delegation there just last week.  And Mexico is also engaging with the
PRC and has sent a delegation there and is working closely with them on
counternarcotics cooperation as well.

MODERATOR:  All right, thank you, everyone.  That’s all the time we have
for today.  Thanks for joining us.  The embargo has now lifted.

Again, this call was on background, attributable to senior
administration officials.  And we will try to get this joint communiqué
on the TFC out as soon as possible and out to you guys. 

Thank you, and have a great day.

  
9:36 A.M. EST
