---
date: '2024-02-14'
modified_time: 2024-02-14 16:06:45-05:00
published_time: 2024-02-14 16:06:44-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/02/14/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-and-national-security-advisor-jake-sullivan-11/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre and National Security\
  \ Advisor Jake\_Sullivan"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

12:11 P.M. EST  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Hi, everybody.  Wow, this is a full house.  
  
Q    They heard there was going to be candy.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, Happy Valentine’s Day, everybody.  Let me just
pass this around.  
  
Q    Thank you.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Keep our tradition here.  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  That’s from me.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  That’s for — from Jake.  Jake insisted.  
  
I just have one thing at the top, and then I’ll hand it over to our
National Security Advisor.  But Happy Valentine’s Day.  
  
As you all saw, last night the President and First Lady called
Representative-elect Suozzi to condra- — congratulate him on his big
win.  
  
Just over a week ago, congressional Republicans killed the toughest,
fairest bipartisan border security deal in a generation.  
  
In other words — or in their own words, they cited Donald Trump’s
concern that the deal would be effective and undermine his pol- —
politics as their reason for opposing it.  
  
Faced with the choice of joining President Biden and the Border Patrol
union to secure our border, congressional Republicans instead sided with
Donald Trump, fentanyl traffickers, and smugglers.  All because of
politics.  
  
You all saw the President’s reaction when the Speaker blocked border
security.  He said, “I want to be absolutely clear about something: The
American people are going to know why it failed.  I’ll be taking this
issue to the country.”  
  
Tom Suozzi bu- — put congressional Republicans’ killing of border
security at the forefront of his campaign.  
  
Here’s the Wall Street Journal this morning: Suozzi “called for securing
the border and attacked — attacked Pilip for criti- — for critiquing
Biden’s border approach without providing an alternative.” “Suozzi
endorsed a bipartisan deal that would have established a new asylum
process at the border.”  
  
And what happened?  The people of New York’s 3rd District issued a
strong repudiation of Republicans who put politics ahead of national
security.  
  
But shockingly, House Republicans are still at it right now, siding with
Donald Trump, Vladimir Putin, and Tehran against our defense industrial
base, against NATO, against Ukraine, against our interests in the
Indo-Pacific.  
  
They have a chance to learn a valuable lesson here: Stop what you’re
doing. Put our national security first.  
  
And now, as you all can see to my right, the National Security Advisor
is here — Jake Sullivan — to speak to House — House representatives and
how the urgent — what the urgent — the urgent need for them to take
action to pass the national security supplemental.  
  
Jake, the floor is yours.  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  Thank you, Karine.  And Happy Valentine’s Day to
everybody.  I’ll make a statement, and then I’d be happy to take your
questions.  
  
Yesterday, the Senate took important action to advance America’s core
national security interests by overwhelmingly passing the national
security supplemental agreement.  
  
This bipartisan legislation will allow the United States to continue to
support the people of Ukraine, alongside our allies and partners, as
they fight every single day to defend their freedom and independence.   
  
It will provide Israel what it needs to defend itself against Hamas
terrorists and other terror threats, and help replenish Israel’s air
defenses so they’re prepared against threats they face from Iran and
Iranian-backed militia groups like Hezbollah.    
  
It will provide resources for our troops in the Middle East who have
faced attacks from Iran-backed militias as they continue the important
mission of defeating ISIS, as well as our forces who are protecting
international commerce in the Red Sea from persistent attacks by the
Houthis.   
  
The bill will provide lifesaving humanitarian assistance for vulnerable
people who have been impacted by conflicts around the world.  That
includes millions of Ukrainians who have been displaced by Russia’s
brutal invasion.  It includes conflicts in Sudan and Nagorno-Karabakh. 
And this support also includes dealing with the urgent needs of the more
than 2 million innocent Palestinian civilians in Gaza, the vast majority
of whom have nothing to do with Hamas.  
  
We are engaged every day, and directly and at the highest levels, in
getting more aid into Gaza and, once in Gaza, getting it to the people
who need it.  
  
In his calls and conversations with regional leaders, the President has
worked through these challenges of humanitarian assistance at a concrete
and granular level in order to help overcome obstacles and facilitate a
sustained, increased flow of humanitarian assistance.  
  
Innocent civilians in Gaza have suffered extraordinary pain and loss
these last four months, and we’re working around the clock to find a way
forward that brings peace, security, and dignity for Palestinians and
Israelis alike, with the security of the state of Israel guaranteed.  
  
The national security supplemental agreement also continues our
important investments in the U.S. defense industrial base, supporting
jobs across the country.  We have already ramped up production lines in
40 states over the past two years, expanding factories and hiring
American workers to make the weapons Ukrainians are using on the
frontline in their fight for freedom, thanks to previous funding that
Congress that has provided.   
  
The investments this bill puts forward will allow us to strengthen our
own domestic manufacturing capacity, revitalize our submarine industrial
base, and improve our military readiness.  
  
It also increases support to allies and partners in the Asia-Pacific and
sends a powerful message that, even as we’re dealing with immediate
crises and challenges in Europe and the Middle East, we’re keeping our
eye on the ball and the long-term strategic position of the United
States of America in the critical Asia-Pacific region.  
  
You heard the President yesterday thank the broad bipartisan coalition
of senators who came together to advance this agreement, and he urged
Speaker Johnson to quickly bring this bill to the floor of the House of
Representatives for a vote.  Because we know if that vote comes to the
floor of the House of Representatives, it will pass on an overwhelming
bipartisan basis, just as it did in the Senate.  
  
As the President said, we cannot afford to wait any longer.  Every day
comes at a cost to the people of Ukraine and to the national security
interests of the United States of America.  
  
The stakes are getting higher, the costs of inaction are also getting
higher every day, especially in Ukraine.  We’ve been increasingly
getting reports of Ukrainian troops rationing or even running out of
ammunition on the frontlines as Russian forces continue to attack both
on the ground and from the air, trying to wear down the Ukrainian air
defenses that we’ve worked so extensively to build up over the past two
years.  
  
So, our allies are watching this closely.  Our adversaries are watching
this closely.  There are those who say U.S. leadership and our alliances
and partnerships with countries around the world don’t matter or should
be torn up or walked away from.  
  
We know from history that when we don’t stand up to dictators, they keep
going.  And the consequences of that would be severe for U.S. national
security, for our NATO Allies, for others around the world.   
  
And so, President Biden is determined to get this done on a bipartisan
basis, through the House of Representatives, to get this aid out the
door so that we are helping our friends and partners and we are helping
ourselves.  
  
And with that, I’d be happy to take your questions.   
  
Yeah.  
  
Q    Thanks, Jake.  Shortly before you came out, Congressman Mike Turner
issued a statement saying that President Biden should declassify
intelligence related to a, quote, “serious national security threat.” 
What can you say about the threat and what the administration plans to
do?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  So, first, I reached out earlier this week to the Gang of
Eight to offer myself for a — up for a personal briefing to the Gang of
Eight.  And, in fact, we scheduled a briefing for the four House members
of the Gang of Eight tomorrow.  That’s been on the books.   
  
So, I am a bit surprised that Congressman Turner came out publicly today
in advance of a meeting on the books for me to go sit with him alongside
our intelligence and defense professionals tomorrow.  That’s his choice
to do that.   
  
All I can tell you is that I’m focused on going to see him, sit with
him, as well as the other House members of the Gang of Eight
tomorrow.   
  
And I’m not in a position to say anything further from this podium at
this time, other than to make the broad point that this administration
has gone further and, in more creative, more strategic ways, dealt with
the declass- — declassification of intelligence in the national interest
of the United States than any administration in history.   
  
So, you definitely are not going to find an unwillingness to do that
when it’s in our national security interest to do so.  At the same time,
we, of course, have to continue to prioritize and focus very much on the
issue of sources and methods.  We’ll do that.  Ultimately, these are
decisions for the President to make.   
  
But in the meantime, the most important thing is we have the opportunity
to sit in a classified setting and have the kind of conversation with
the House Intelligence leadership that I, in fact, had scheduled before
Congressman Turner went out today.  
  
Q    And then —  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  Yeah.  
  
Q    But — but just to be clear, Turner calls this an “urgent matter
with regard to a destabilizing foreign military capability.”  Are you
aware that there is an emerging serious threat here that he’s referring
to?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  Again, I’ll just say that I personally reached out to the
Gang of Eight.  It is highly unusual, in fact, for the National Security
Advisor to do that.  I did that to set up a meeting.  The Senate is not
here.  The four House members have agreed to that meeting.  This was
well before Congressman Turner came out today.  We’ll have that
conversation tomorrow.  I’m not going to say anything further today.  
  
Q    But do you believe that was — that this is about the same thing? 
When you set up that meeting to reach out to them, were you intending to
discuss this matter?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  Well, I — again, I’ll — I’ll leave it to you to draw
whatever connections you want.  All I can say is I’ve reached out to see
Turner.  Turner has gone out publicly.  I’m going to go see Turner
tomorrow.  That’s where I want to leave things for today.   
  
Q    Hey, Jake —  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — without this funding, how long can Ukraine hold off the
Russians?  And then, do you have other ways to get them weaponry, such
as through NATO Allies?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  So, first, our NATO Allies have stepped up in a
significant way when it comes to burden-sharing in the provision of
military assistance to Ukraine.  Take a country like Germany, which has
offered up $8 billion over the course of this year for Ukraine.  And
many of our other allies have brought forward a significant number of
capabilities, from the UK all the way over to the Baltics.  They will
continue to do that.   
  
But the United States has provided a significant share of that, and that
hole cannot be fully filled by other allies and partners.  And we need
to stare that truth square in the face.   
  
In addition to that, when it comes to some of the capabilities that the
United States has that other countries don’t have, we need the drawdown
authority and resources to go with it so that we can replenish our
stocks so that we can give things that we have that others don’t have. 
So, when you put it all together, there just is no substitute for the
United States coming forward with this funding.   
  
As far as how long Ukraine can hold on, I mean, you’re talking about a
brave, resilient, courageous, determined people who are defending their
homeland.  They’re going to keep fighting.  But they’re going to fight
from a less strong position if they do not get the replenishment of
ammunition, air defense interceptors, and other capabilities that they
need to be able both to withstand Russian advances and to take territory
back that the Russians are currently occupying.  So, I can’t put a
timetable on it.   
  
All I can say is that each passing day, each passing week, the cost of
inaction from the United States that’s being borne on the frontlines by
brave Ukrainians is rising.  And that’s why we so urgently need to pass
this bill.   
  
Yeah.  
  
Q    I have a question on the Middle East.  But just a quick follow-up
on what Congressman Turner said.  Is there anything you can say to
characterize what this threat is or what country it involves?  I mean,
should the public be alarmed at this point, since he has said this
publicly?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  I’m not in a position to say anything further today. 
Like I said, I look forward to the discussion with him.  And obviously,
from there, we will determine how to proceed.  But standing here at the
podium today, I can’t share anything further.   
  
Q    And my question on the situation in the Middle East.  As you are
pushing for this weeks-long humanitarian pause and hostages release,
does the U.S. expect that Israel would pick up its military operation
once that temporary pause in fighting is over?  Or is the expectation or
maybe even the hope that that temporary pause would turn into a
permanent pause and effectively an end in the war?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  Well, what the President said earlier this week, when he
was standing with King Abdullah after their meeting, is that we’re
looking for a temporary pause as part of a hostage deal and then to
build on that into something more enduring.  What that looks like
exactly, on what parameters, where Hamas fits into that, all of the
other pieces, that’s things that we’re going to have to work through
with our partners in Israel and with others.  But the goal would be to
start with a temporary pause and see what we can build from there.  
  
Q    But not have the fighting resume after that temporary pause.  Is
that right —  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  Well —  
  
Q    — that that is the goal?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  — the — the idea is that you have multiple phases as part
of a hostage deal, and you try to move from one phase to the next so
that an initial period of pause can be extended as more hostages come
out, more commitments are made, and so forth.  Where that goes exactly,
I can’t predict today.   
  
What we would like to see — what the President also said in his remarks
— is that Hamas is ultimately defeated, that peace and security come to
Gaza and to Israel, and that we then work towards the longer-term issues
related to a two-state solution with Israel’s security guaranteed.   
  
But it all begins by trying to get that pause in hostilities for a
certain period of time, and then that opens the potential options for
where things can go from there without prejudging anything because this
is a dynamic situation.  And we’ll have to stay in very close
consultation with the Israelis to ensure that their interests, their
security is continuing to be protected in all of this.   
  
Yeah.  
  
Q    Thanks, Jake.  On FISA, there are a couple of amendments that are
being considered.  One of them would require a warrant for every query
of lawfully collected data.  If that were to pass and get into the bill,
would the President veto that bill?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  So, I’m not in a position to stand here today and make
veto threats on behalf of the President.  Those are –- are, you know,
decisions for him to make.   
  
What I will tell you is that we do not believe that that serves the
national security interests of the United States.  And, in fact, today,
I will be making that case to a number of members — that the warrant
requirement as conceived is not the best way actually to ensure the
protection of the personal privacy of Americans.  There are a number of
other elements of the bill that we have supported that would reform and
update FISA to protect the civil liberties of Americans, but a warrant
requirement from our perspective would go too far in undermining the
very purpose of FISA, and, frankly, it would put victims at risk.   
  
Yeah.  
  
Q    Also, on TikTok, sir.  Just as the Nat- — National Security
Advisor, is it at all problematic for the President’s campaign to be
using a platform that is deemed a national security threat?  Is that —
is there a risk that mixed messaging here could be a problem?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  I — I’m not going to deal with campaign questions here. 
All I will say is that the United States has supported legislation in
the Congress to give us a broad set of tools and authorities to deal
with the larger issues of social media platforms.  We continue to hold
that position.  Nothing in that has changed.   
  
Yeah.   
  
Q    Thanks, Jake.  Is there any update that you can give on the 301
tariffs review on China?  Do you know when we can expect a decision on
that?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  I can tell that I’m fulfilling everyone’s deepest desires
here — and I’ll answer your question too — by saying I have nothing to
offer you on that, other than that review is ongoing, and when we have
something to share, we’ll share it.   
  
Yeah.  
  
Q    Thank you very —  
  
Q    And one more just on Secretary Austin.  I know that he’s recovering
from the hospital.  But is there conversations about contingency if he’s
not able to continue to serve, just given that this is the second time
he has been hospitalized?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  I spoke with Secretary Austin at some length yesterday
afternoon — secure — on a range of issues.  He is very much in the
saddle doing his job, doing it as — with the same level of effectiveness
and capacity that he always has.  
  
And of course, there is protocol, but that protocol has existed for a
long time.  It’s the delegation of authority to the Deputy Secretary who
takes on the duties of an Acting Secretary.  That happened a few weeks
ago.  It happened again yesterday.  And that’s all built into
longstanding department protocols that ensure the sanctity of the chain
of command.  That’s how we intend to continue to proceed.   
  
Q    Jake, I want to ask you about Israel in a second.  But just a quick
follow-up just to put this to rest.  Obviously, the House Intelligence
Chair is speaking out about an imminent or — he doesn’t say “imminent” —
serious national security threat.  The lack of your ability to say
anything has the potential to raise distress for some Americans.   
  
In the simplest of terms, can you tell Americans that there’s nothing
they have to worry about right now in terms of what he describes as a
national security threat?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  Look, I think in a way that question is impossible to
answer with a straight “yes” — right? — because Americans understand
that there are a range of threats and challenges in the world that we’re
dealing with every single day.  And those threats and challenges range
from terrorism to state actors.  And we have to contend with them.  And
we have to contend with them in a way where we ensure the ultimate
security of the American people.   
  
I am confident that President Biden, in the decisions that he is taking,
is going to ensure the security of the American people going forward,
and I will stand here at this podium and assert that, look you in the
eye with confidence that we believe that we can and will and are
protecting the national security of the United States and the American
people.   
  
Q    Perfect.  Thank you for your answer.   
  
I just want to ask you then about Israel, which is my — which is my
primary question here, which is that the White House has said it would
like to have from Israel a credible plan in terms of what it’s going to
do in Rafah to avoid civilian casualties there.  What does the White
House believe that plan needs to look like?  And what is the consequence
for Israel if it doesn’t meet that desire of the United States?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  So, I’m not going to lay out all of the details standing
here at the podium, because those are intensive conversations we’re
having with the Israeli government right now in detail.  But broadly
speaking, it means being able to deal with three realities.   
  
One reality, you’ve got more than a million people in a very small area,
and those people have to have a place to go that is safe.   
  
A second reality is that the aid that Palestinian civilians rely upon
comes in through Rafah, and so if military operations either disrupt the
crossings — Kerem Shalom and Rafah Crossing — coming in or disrupt the
distribution points, that will make it more difficult to move aid
around.  So, we need answers to the question not only where do people
go, but how do they get a sustained level of aid — food, medicine,
water, shelter.   
  
And then the third reality is that this is pressed right up against the
Egyptian border.  And you’ve heard directly from the Egyptians their
concern about what that could potentially mean on that border.  And
there needs to be a clear answer to that question as well.   
  
Those are the kinds of things we are talking about with the Israeli
government.  And the President has been clear, as we — as he said in his
remarks on Monday, we need to see that credible and implementable
plan.  
  
Q    And the consequence if they don’t meet that?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  So, I’m not going to speculate here today on the if/then
hypothetical.  I will just say that our position on the question of
Rafah is clear, and we are pressing very hard on this basic issue that
you’ve got exposed, vulnerable civilians in Rafah.  They need to be
protected.   
  
Q    Thank you, Jake.   
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  Yeah.   
  
Q    Yeah, thanks, Jake.  What is your response to this idea pushed by
Donald Trump that foreign aid should be — to other countries should be
treated as a loan?  It’s an idea, a concept that appears to have picked
up steam with some Republicans, Linds- — Senator Lindsey Graham citing
that as the reason he voted against the supplemental funding package.  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  Look, there can be a place for loans in foreign
assistance.  There have been for a long time.  But there’s a number of
categories of foreign assistance where that makes no sense.  You know,
try telling a Palestinian mother in Gaza that, you know, to get a piece
of medicine, they have to take out a loan.   
  
Humanitarian assistance in the best traditions — bipartisan traditions
of the United States has never been a loan.  It’s been something we
provide to people in desperate need in conflict situations.  So, that’s
one category where I think the loan concept just has never applied and
makes no sense to apply.  
  
The second is when you’re dealing with a country that is fighting for
its life, like Ukraine, that needs an economy to remain basically
afloat, basically intact, to not collapse and have the entire weight of
the country collapse with it.  Talking about loans as opposed to
providing the necessary infusion of cash is only going to make the
economic problems of that country worse at a time we are trying to make
them better, because a stronger, more stable, more secure Ukraine is in
the fundamental national security interest of the United States.  So,
there’s another place where it wouldn’t make sense.  
  
And then, of course, you have the funding for Israel in the
supplemental, including money designed to ensure Israel’s security.   
  
I would ask the question: Is Donald Trump and is Lindsey Graham saying
that we should only be providing that money on a loan basis?  Or that
the memorandum of understanding that has been supported on a bipartisan
basis over the course of a decade should be converted into a loan?  I
think you would probably find them taking a different approach on that
question.  
  
So, from our perspective, we look at every element of U.S. foreign
assistance through the lens of: Does it help solve a problem?  And does
it help advance the security and values of the United States?  
  
And we believe that we can answer that question, yes, for what we’re
putting forward in the supplemental.  And we believe we can put it
forward for what’s in our base budget as well.  
  
Q    And then on another topic.  Are you able to confirm a Wall Street
Journal report today that the U.S. is investigating the potential use of
white phosphorus by Israel on a recent attack in Lebanon?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  I mean, we look at reports that happen in all conflict
situations all around the world.  That’s part of what we do to ensure
our own compliance with international obligations.  But I can’t confirm
any particular formal review of the kind that you’re referring to.  
  
Yeah.  
  
(Cross-talk.)  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  Go ahead.   
  
Q    Thanks, Jake.  I wanted to ask — there was an Axios report on a
shipment of flour being blocked by Israel getting into Gaza.  Can you
confirm that this aid hasn’t been able to come through?  And if there’s
already issues right now getting aid like flour in to Palestinian
people, then, when an operation, you know, does happen in Rafah, how can
you guarantee that that aid will still be able to come through?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  Well, that’s why we’re asking the question on the aid
coming through.  And you’re right, that aid — that flour has not moved
the way that we had expected it would move.  And we expect that Israel
will follow through on its commitment to get that flour into Gaza.   
  
But we are asking the question: How do you do something like Rafah and
make sure all those innocent people not only are protected physically,
but can have access to aid?  That is precisely the point that we are
pressing on quite actively as we speak.  
  
Q    And can I just ask about the Munich Security Conference really
quick?  The VP, obviously, headed there today.  The President said, when
he went three years ago, that “America is back,” “the Transatlantic
Alliance is back.”  But there are some concerns from European allies
about that.  So, what message can the VP send when she heads there
today?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  Well look, one thing she can say is that the NATO
Alliance is bigger, stronger, and more vital than it has been in 75
years — having just added Finland and about to add Sweden.  That since
President Biden took office, we’ve gone from nine NATO Allies who were
hitting their 2 percent threshold to 18.  We have doubled that number in
three years.   
  
You’ve got NATO countries stepping up now with implementable plans for
the defense and deterrence of the east and the south in a way that you
never did before.  And you have unity among the NATO Alliance in a way
that has really been pretty unprecedented in modern memory.   
  
So, she’s going to go with a story to tell not just about that, but
about how the U.S. and Europe are aligned on some of the challenges we
see — from the People’s Republic of China, how we’re aligned on thinking
about a clean energy transition, how we’re aligned on sanctions against
Russia and standing up for Ukraine.   
  
So, her — but she’s also going to say, you know, we’re at an important
moment here and it is a time for choosing.  And — and President Biden is
making clear where he stands on these issues, and he thinks the American
people are with him in standing strong for NATO and for transatlantic
unity.  
  
Yeah.  
  
Q    Thank you, Jake.  There has been rocket fire exchange between
Hezbollah and — and Israel today.  Do you think that can slip into some
kind of escalation?   
  
And on Gaza, President Abbas has asked Hamas to compromise and conclude
the hostage deal.  Will the United States put more pressure on Netanyahu
to compromise as well?   
  
And, you know, there’s only one functioning hospital in Gaza for one and
a half million people.  Many paramedics and doctors have been killed, as
you know very well.  What can you do?  Is this acceptable for the U.S.? 
What can you do, apart from the humanitarian aid, that actually there is
functioning hospitals for so many people who’ve been injured?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  So, we do remain concerned about the possibility of
escalation along Israel’s northern border between Israel and Hezbollah. 
Hezbollah has been firing deeper and deeper into Israel, including in
recent days.  This is a matter of concern for us.  It’s something that
we are in very close contact with the Israeli military, the Israeli
intelligence services, and the political leadership about.   
  
And we will continue to work to try to generate an outcome in which
Israel’s security is guaranteed, their people can return to their homes,
and the terror threat from Hezbollah is not the kind of acute threat
that it has grown into as — as Hezbollah has moved closer and closer to
the border in recent years.  So, we will keep working on that.   
  
With respect to the hostage deal, President Biden spoke with Prime
Minister Netanyahu over the weekend.  He made a strong — he strongly
advocated for moving forward to get this deal done and to capitalize on
the progress that we have seen.  He will continue to do that, and we
will continue to stand up for the need to get a hostage deal to get
those innocent people home and also to get a sustained pause that can
help us move a lot more humanitarian assistance in and, frankly, in that
context, also deal with some of the urgent medical needs that your last
question raised.   
  
A hostage deal, a sustained pause opens the door to being able to
alleviate a significant amount of the suffering, including the medical
suffering of the people — the Palestinian people.   
  
It’s interesting what Abbas said.  I’d just make one more point about
Rafah.  You know, we have been unequivocal, as I have from this podium
today, about the need for a credible and implementable plan to protect
civilians.   
  
I would also point out that Hamas has to account for itself as well. 
Hamas is hiding amongst civilians, embedding itself amongst civilians in
ways that also put those civilians at risk.   
  
And so, some of the international community’s questions and pressure
should be on Hamas as you —  
  
And Abbas coming forward to do that today is kind of unusual, because
there hasn’t been enough of that from enough voices in the international
community.  
  
Q    Jake, can I follow up on Gaza — on deal.?  Because the Israeli
Prime Minister has decided not to send a delegation to Cairo for the
talks.  So, what does this say about the prospect of this hostage dea- —
deal?  Do you believe it can be reached?   
  
And I have another question on Venezuela, but  
can I ask —  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  We believe that there can be a deal, there should be a
deal, and everyone should keep working hard to get that deal.   
  
I can’t speak to the specific tactics of a meeting on any given day, but
the direction of travel has got to be everybody doing everything they
can, including the government of Israel, to try to reach a deal that is
good for Israel, that is good for regional security, and that the United
States is going to keep pushing hard on privately with the Israeli
government and publicly from this podium.   
  
Yeah.  
  
Q    Can I ask one on Venezuela very quickly?  Because the
administration — do you believe the administration misread Maduro’s
intention?  Do you think — now do you think the elections in Venezuela
can be fair?  
  
And another question very quickly about Brazil, because recently
President Biden and President Lula exchanged letters related — defending
democracy.  Last week, the Brazilian Federal Police seiz- — seized the
passport of former President Bolsonaro as part of an investigation of
attempted coup in Brazil after the election.  And do you think the U.S.
can learn something related to these from Brazil and work together?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  So, on your first question, the structure of the
understanding between the United States, the Maduro regime, and the
opposition was not built on some kind of, you know, enduring faith in
the implementation of the agreement.  It was built on verification.   
  
So, what did we do?  We did a six-month license for certain sanctions
alleviation.  That six months is up in April.   
  
We will see, at that point, where we are with respect to the Maduro
regime following through on its commitments, and then we’ll make our
determinations about how we proceed from there.   
  
So, embedded in the structure of the deal was the very kind of
verification to see whether or not they were prepared to do the things
they said they were going to do.  We weren’t going to prejudge whether
they were they weren’t.  We were going to design an outcome where if
they did, okay, we can move forward.  And if they didn’t, all right, we
would take a different course.  And that’s exactly how we intend to
proceed.   
  
So, we laid out up front what we were going to do, and that’s how things
will transpire from here.   
  
And I — I’m afraid I don’t have any comment on the particulars of the
case in Brazil.  You know, that’s become a matter for the Brazilian
courts to decide, and it probably wouldn’t be appropriate for me to
opine on from this podium.  
  
Yeah.  
  
Q    Thank you.  
  
Q    (Inaudible) Brazil — sorry.  
  
Q    Thank you, Jake.  Two questions on the Middle East.  In — in Gaza
in recent weeks, there have been two 17-year-old U.S. citizens killed by
Israeli Defense Forces.  And there are at least three more U.S. citizens
who have been detained in the West Bank by Israeli forces.   
  
What’s — what Biden administration to — doing to protect American
citizens in Gaza and the West Bank right now?  And then I — I have a
follow-up.  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  So, first on that.  In these cases, when we see reports
like this or we get outreach from families, we engage with the Israeli
government on it.  There are investigations pending in — in the cases
that you described, and we’ll continue to work that aggressively.   
  
And we have made clear from the start that the United States is focused
on the welfare and wellbeing of American citizens wherever they are,
whether it’s in the West Bank or Gaza or Israel or any other country in
the region or indeed in the world.  That remains the commitment of the
President, and that’s what he will continue to do.   
  
Q    And on a broader political question on this — this conflict and
these relations with the Israeli government: Prime Minister Netanyahu
has had, in the past, no qualms about meddling in American politics,
usually to the detriment of Democratic presidents.  I’m sure you’re
familiar with this history.   
  
Why — why does the President believe that Netanyahu is operating in good
faith?  And is there any concern, either among the President or his
advisors, that the Prime Minister is deliberately inflaming the
situation, in part, at least, because he believes doing so will inflame
voters here in some constituencies, reduce support for President Biden,
and possibly get him a more sympathetic president in January 2025 who
would give him a free hand to do whatever he wanted?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  I’m not going to characterize the motives of another
political leader from another country from this podium.  I see no — no
upside in that.   
  
President Biden has had a long relationship with Prime Minister
Netanyahu.  It is a direct and candid relationship.   
  
The touchstone of everything the President does when it comes to dealing
with any Israeli prime minister is: It’s not about the leader; it is
about the security of the State of Israel, the U.S.-Israel relationship,
and the — and most fundamentally the American national security
interest.   
  
That’s what’s going to motivate his decisions.  And — and I’ll leave it
at that.  
  
Q    Having said —  
  
Q    Jake —  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  Yeah.  
  
Q    Having said that —  
  
Q    Thank you —  
  
Q    Thank you, Jake.  I’ve got a question about Chinese lab safety, and
then China-Ukraine question for you.  On Chinese lab safety.  There was
a scientific study preprint last month that went viral that’s reignited
concerns about Chinese as — scientific research after the coronavirus,
of course, killed more than a million Americans after potentially
leaking from the Wuhan lab.   
  
In this study, humanized mice were injected with the coronavirus
variants, and the variant killed nearly 100 percent of them, which
scares people, of course, because I mean, that’s all of them.   
  
There are a lot of unknowns about this, but there are prominent
scientists who are saying this research is reckless.  So, I was
wondering if you could say if the U.S. government is following this
study and if there there’s anything broader you could say about the
concerns about Chinese lab safety?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  So, we’ve documented in the past, over many years,
concerns about biosafety, biosecurity practices of a number of
countries, China being one of them.  That’s something we continue to be
vigilant about because biosafety and biosecurity, particularly of
hazardous bio substances anywhere in the world, can ultimately come back
and harm Americans.  So, it remains a significant focus of multiple
agencies of the U.S. government.  And we’ll keep working on that.  
  
Q    And on —  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  Yeah.  
  
Q    Yes —  
  
Q    — China, Ukraine, there — there are a couple of significant
developments recently in investigations into the President’s role in his
family’s foreign business dealings that bear on current political
debates, and I was hoping that you could help Americans digest these
bits of information.  
  
On China, there was a recent rel- — revelation from impeachment inquiry
testimony that the President in 2017 met with the chairman of CEFC China
Energy at the Four Seasons Hotel not far from here.  Ye Jianming has
since gone missing in China amid corruption allegations.  How does — how
do — how should people think about that amid U.S.-China tensions and the
President’s potential exposure here?  
  
And in Ukraine, according to laptop records and a former business
partner, the mayor of Kyiv, Vitali Klitschko, was involved with the
Burisma subsidiary that was chaired by the First Son.  How should
Americans think about that amid the Ukraine foreign aid debate?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  I’ve got nothing for you on that.  Yeah.  
  
Q    Thank you.  Thank you, Jake.  On the — I’m sorry, on the NCG agreed
upon by the President Biden and South Korean President Yoon last year. 
And what is the reason for the transition of the U.S. and ROK nuclear
conservative groups from the National Security Council to being read by
the Ministry of Defense?  What is the reason for the transition for
that?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  So, first of all, the NSC remains fundamentally engaged
in the NCG.  And this is an interagency process.  It involves our
Department of Defense, it involves our Department of State, the NSC, our
intelligence community — and the same on the other side.   
  
This was directed by our two presidents out of the summit here in
Washington — the Washington Declaration.  It remains a high priority for
all of us.   
  
And the work of the NCG, frankly, speaks for itself.  And we will
continue to be proud of that work because we believe it’s enhancing the
security and extended deterrence in the U.S.-ROK alliance.   
  
I’ll take one more question.  Yeah.  
  
Q    Thanks, Jake.  The — do you have any more information on Ukraine’s
claims to have blown up a Russian warship in the Black Sea?  And could I
also ask you what that says about Ukraine’s ability to carry on
operations despite the current blockage of U.S. aid?   
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  So, I don’t have anything beyond what the Ukrainians
themselves have come out publicly to say.   
  
And, you know, as I was saying earlier, it’s not like Ukraine is going
to lay down.  They’re defending their country.  They’re going to fight
with everything they’ve got.  And they have capabilities they’re getting
from other countries, capabilities that they are developing indigenously
with their own defense industrial base.  That will continue.   
  
The point that I was making is the gap between that and where they can
and should be with American assistance backing them is a significant gap
— a gap that needs to be filled for Ukraine to achieve its long-term
aims in this war.  
  
Q    Jake —  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  Thanks, everybody.  
  
(Cross-talk.)  
  
Q    A question on the President, specifically, Jake.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Thanks, Jake.  Thank you, Jake.  
  
Hey, Josh.  
  
Q    Hi.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Good to see you.   
  
Q    Good to see you.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I will say this, it’s been a while, I feel like. 
(Laughter.)  
  
Q    Yeah, that’s true.  It’s true.  Happy Valentine’s Day.  Thanks for
the gummy bears.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Happy Valentine’s Day.  
  
Q    So —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Chocolate — was it chocolate?  No, it was —  
  
Q    Gummies.  
  
Q    It was bears.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Bears, yeah.   
  
Q    I was bears.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  I bought it.   
  
Q    I think — I think German-made, though, maybe?  Haribo?  So —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, gosh.  Well, there you go.  Heart — heart — heart
candy, right?  
  
Q    So, two questions.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    First, is the White House confident that the Democratic-led Senate
can and will move quickly to dismiss the impeachment case against
Secretary Mayorkas?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, here’s what I can say.  And you saw the
President’s statement yesterday, last night, on — on what occurred in
the House.  And we’ve been very clear about how we feel about what’s
occurring on the House.   
  
I do want to just — I know we — we’ve gotten these questions a couple of
times.  I do want to say that the President did connect with Secretary
Mayorkas earlier today, and they — and you saw the President’s statement
last night, which said that, you know, history will not — will not look
kindly on House Republicans for this blatant act of what we believe to
be unconstitutional — unconstitutional <s>bipartisanship</s>
\[partisanship\].  
  
And so, we believe that what occurred last night is b- — is — is
baseless.  It’s shameful.  We have to remember this is a — this is a
Secretary who worked really hard with the Senate to try to get that
bipartisan agreement with — obviously, with Republicans and Democrats
when it — as it — as it relates to the border security.   
  
And we believe if that had been put into place, if we hadn’t — if it had
been moved forward, it would have been the tough — yes, the toughest,
but also the fairest piece — piece of legislation, obviously, would have
been into law that would have dealt with a broken immigration system,
beginning to deal with that, and, obviously, the challenges that we see
at the border.  And it’s unfortunate that — that House Republicans
prioritize politics instead of actually getting that done.   
  
I’m certainly not going to speak to the process of the Senate.  The
Senate is going to move forward in whatever — in whatever way that they
will.  But we’ve been really, really, really clear that what we saw —
that the vote coming out of House Republicans — they would rather play
politics instead of doing their jobs.   
  
And we saw bipartisan support against the impeachment just last week. 
And so, it is unfortunate that this occurred.  It is truly
unfortunate.   
  
And so, I’m just going to leave it there for now.   
  
Q    And then, secondly, Speaker Johnson has suggested that he needs a
one-on-one meeting with President Biden.  Given that Johnson has said he
doesn’t feel rushed on foreign aid, would that one-on-one meeting
help?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, look — and I appreciate the question, Josh,
but the President met with — met with, obviously, congressional
leadership less than a month ago — just less than a month ago.  And he
made really clear how important it was to get that bipartisan-negotiated
legislation coming out of the Senate, how important it was to get that —
to move that forward.   
  
And let’s not forget, it’s almost as — it’s almost as if this — the
Speaker is actually negotiating with himself — truly — because he first
said he needed to see the border security in the deal, in the national
security supplemental deal, right?  Meaning, like, border security
needed to be dealt with first, because it obviously — it was in the
national security supplemental that the President put forward in
October.   
  
He wanted to see that done first.  We did that.  The Senate delivered
that.  The Senate, the President, in a bipartisan way, delivered
that.   
  
Then, he doesn’t want it.  Then, he doesn’t want it in there, right?   
  
And so, then, of course, the Senate goes back, takes it out, and
presented a national security supplemental without the border.  Then,
he’s like, “Well, I don’t want that, either.”   
  
So, what is it?  He decide — instead, he decides to choose Donald
Trump.   
  
And let’s not forget, there’s fentanyl traffickers, right?  That’s what
he — he sided with over the Border Patrol, over — over this President
and what — and doing what majority of Americans wants us to do.  He’s
the one killing this.  He is.   
  
And what we believe is there is indeed bipartisan support in Congress
for it.  There is, and we’ve heard that.  We’ve heard that there’s
bipartisan support.  
  
House Republicans, like Andy Biggs, have been explicit that it would
pass the House if allowed a vote.  And that should happen.  Even in
House Republican leadership is — is aligning, right?  They’re
aligning.   
  
If you think about — you just heard — you just heard Jake Sullivan talk
about what — how important it is to make sure we get that support to
Ukraine, right?  
  
By doing what they’re doing in the leadership, they’re supporting Putin,
right?  They’re siding with Putin and Tehran.  You heard me say that at
the top.   
  
So, if they were — if the Speaker would actually put this bipartisan
bill to the floor that deals with our national security, it would
actually pass in a bipartisan way out of the House.  And that’s where we
are today.   
  
Q    But just to follow on that.  You mentioned that the President did
meet with — with leaders about a month ago.  Since then, the Speaker’s
office says the President has declined multiple requests that they have
made for this one-on-one.   
  
I guess, just given what you and the President say is at stake here, why
not meet with him?  I mean, it seems that you’re saying there’s —
there’s just nothing to be gained —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, Ma- —  
  
Q    — by the President getting in a room with the Speaker.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  But, Mary, we — and I appreciate the — I get what
you’re saying.  But we’ve actually delivered multiple times — the Senate
has — on what the Speaker is asking for.  
  
He first said to pull out — pull out — pull out — deal — I’m sorry, he
first said: Put the border security — if you’re going to put border
security into the national security supplemental, I want you to actually
deal with it and come out with a deal that he would — that would move
forward in a way that he would support.  And that border security
negotiated deal that came out of the Senate in bipartisan way actually
had provisions in there that he’s talked about for a long time, and then
he rejected that.   
  
And so, then he was like, “I could only move forward with a national
security supplement without border security.”  Then, in a bipartisan
way, the Senate delivered on that.   
  
So, I — what is there to negotiate?  Really, truly, what is the
one-on-one negotiation about when he’s been presented with exactly what
he asked for?  
  
So, he’s negotiating with himself.  He’s killing bills on his own.   
  
And if he were to put that bill that just came out of the Senate — the
nat- — the national security supplemental that doesn’t have border
security in it because he said he didn’t want it, he changed his mind —
it would pass.  It would pass in a bipartisan way.   
  
So, it just — it just doesn’t make sense to us.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    So, how do you persuade him to put the bill on the floor?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We’re going to continue to put pressure on.  We’re
going to continue to answer the questions that you’re asking.  We’re
going to be very clear — the President was very clear — very clear
yesterday in his statement.  The National Security Advisor was very
clear in his statement.  We have been talking to congressional
leadership and congressional members for some time.   
  
And this is about — this is not about politics.  This is about national
security needs.  And it is a critical — it is important to make sure
Ukraine has what it needs.  It is critical and important to make sure we
continue to — to give — to give what Israel needs to defend themselves
against a terrorist organization.   
  
It is also critical and important to get that <s>humanitary
assistant</s> \[humanitarian assistance\].  You just heard from the
National Security Advisor how important it is to get that humanitarian
aid into Gaza.   
  
And so, we — we’re — I think — I think the Speaker is confused.  I think
the Speaker doesn’t understand what it is that his job is.  Put that
bill to the floor.  Put that bill to the floor.  It will get bipartisan
support.   
  
Go ahead, Jared.  
  
Q    Does the White House still believe that there is an opportunity to
sort of reopen the border and immigration talks or is that basically off
now?   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, look, we want got to continue to move forward
with a — with the challenges at the border.  That’s what we want to do:
having those conversations, getting the necessary funding, the policy —
the real policy, meaningful changes.   
  
I mean, that’s what was so important.  We spent the last couple of
months talking to the Senate in a bipartisan way.  I mean, to deal with
an issue that’s been around — immigration system, a broken system that’s
been around — that’s been — we’ve been dealing with for decades.  So,
we’re always open to have those conversations.  Always.   
  
But, you know, House Republicans want to do something different.  They
don’t want — they sided — again, I was very clear: They sided with
Donald Trump.  That’s what they decided to do.  They sided with fentanyl
traffickers.  That’s what they de- — decided to do.   
  
When you have the Border Patrol union saying that they support a piece
of legislation, that’s important.  That’s important.  When you have
things in that bill that they — meaning House Republicans — have talked
about endlessly for years and now they turn their backs on it.  That
doesn’t make sense.  That doesn’t make sense.   
  
Of course, we want to move forward with dealing with that issue in a
real way.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you so much.  I have a NATO question and then a Mid-East
question.  Starting with NATO.  What does the White House make of
candidate Trump’s proposal for a tiered Alliance at NATO?  And how would
you characterize the difference between the Trump and Biden foreign
policy doctrines?  
  
And then, just secondly —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — is the administration seeking to reassure Allies in the wake of
Donald Trump’s comments on NATO?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, the National Security Advisor literally just
answered that question moments ago, so I would refer you to what he’s —
to the — to the transcript.  He did a wonderful job laying out how that
all works.  So, I would refer you to Jake Sullivan’s comment just
moments ago.  
  
Look, I want to be really careful on — on making any comments on a 2024
election.  And so, you know, I’ll say this more broadly: The President
has restored — has restored our alliances and made stronger in the world
because of what this President has been able to do.   
  
And every — you know, he knows every Commander-in-Chief’s first job —
right? — their first job is to make sure that the American people are
safe.  That is what the President understands.   
  
And so, NATO is now — because of his leadership, it’s now larger, as you
know, and it’s also the most vital that it’s been because of what this
President has been able to do.   
  
And I think this President’s leadership speaks — speaks fully and speaks
really loudly with our closest allies.  And it is — it is truly
appalling what was said.  It’s — it’s unhinged.  And it endangers — it
endangers our American national security and global stability when you
hear that coming from a former president.   
  
So, you know, we’re going to continue to be steadfast.  The President
understands how important it is to — to continue to make our Alliance
strong with NATO.  And you’ve seen that — you’ve seen it in the past
three years.   
  
But, obviously, those comments does not put our national security in the
forefront.  It does not help keep — keep us safe.  And it is — it is
appalling to hear those types of comments.  
  
Q    Thank you for your comprehensive answer.   
  
Moving along to the Middle East.  Iranian proxies are still targeting
Red Sea shipping vessels.  Why is that?  Why does the U.S. seem
powerless when it comes to safeguarding commercial shipping?  
  
And then just —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — very quickly, the President’s campaign TikTok has been flooded
with criticism over the U.S.’s support of Israel.  How do you respond to
that?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, I mean, our position hasn’t — doesn’t
change.  Right?  We we’ve been really clear on our support for Israel to
continue be able to defend itself, obviously, within the international
humanitarian law.  We’ve been very clear about that.   
  
You’ve heard from Jake Sullivan and my other National Security Council
colleagues, and you’ve heard from the President directly how important
it is to do that, how important it is also to make sure that is — that
we protect a civilian lives in Gaza.  We’ve been very clear.  That is
why we’re working so hard.   
  
The President — you saw the Secretary just a couple of days ago be in
the region, and we’re working so hard to get that humanitarian aid so
that we can get American hostages home, so we get that humanitarian aid
home — into — pardon me — into Gaza.  And so that’s always going to be
what we’re going to lean into, continue to make sure we deliver on.  And
so, that’s not going to change.  
  
Obviously, I can’t speak to a campaign TikTok.  I’m — not something that
I can speak to.   
  
But that has been our position and will continue to be.  
  
Q    I mean, this isn’t a campaign issue.  These are Americans who are
asserting their — their feelings on this.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  And we — and we have said all — we say — we say
at all times — right? — it is important — we believe it’s important for
Americans to —  we value their — we value their opinion.  We know this
is a difficult time.  We get that.  We get that this is an incredibly
difficult time.   
  
And we value and always make — we always make — obviously, bring the
space — make sure there’s space available for folks to — to — for folks
to, you know, share their concerns.  And so, that’s something that we’ve
been very consistent here with.  
  
Okay.  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  Senator Blinken spoke with Paul Whelan yesterday. 
What prompted that phone call, and is there a new offer put up by the
United States to secure his release?  What can you tell us?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  So, I — and you tal- — Secretary Blinken, so I
would obviously refer you to the State Department to — to get more on
that particular conversation.   
  
Look, we have been very clear.  We are always, always clear about
believing and — and working very hard to make sure that Paul Whelan and
also Evan get — come home.  And we do everything that we can.  We’re
having those conversations to make sure that happens.   
  
I wish today, as I’m standing in front of you, I can say that there’s a
deal and that we’ve made progress on that.  I just don’t have anything
to share.  But — but we want to see Paul Whelan come home to his family
and his friends, and we want to see Evan come home.  And don’t have
anything to share on any deal or any further discussion.  But obviously,
we have been very, very clear about that.  
  
Q    No deal, but can you say that there has been another offer put
forward by the U.S.?   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I just don’t have anything to share about another
offer.  As — as you know, in the past, we have put forth offers that has
not been taken seriously by — by the Russians.  And we’re going to
continue to do — do everything that we can to get them home to their
friends, to their families, and loved ones.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you.  Jake talked about speaking with Secretary Austin
yesterday.  Has the President had a chance to talk to him?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yes, I can confirm that, yesterday, the President
spoke to Secretary Austin, and obviously he continues to wish him a
speedy recovery and is looking forward to the Secretary going back to
the Pentagon.  Obviously, the Secretary is still working — is working
from home.  But he’s looking forward for the Secretary to get back to
the Pentagon.  
  
Q    The President took time to call Congressman-elect Suozzi last
night.  Any chance he talked to the Homeland Security Secretary about
his impeachment?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, I think I said that at the top.  
  
Q    Did you say that already?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yes, I did.  
  
Q    Forgive me.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  That’s okay.  That’s all right.   
  
Q    I was distracted by the gummy bears.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  (Laughs.)  The — the candy gummy bear — the heart
candy coming through there.   
  
Q    And just real quick.  We asked Jake about this earlier.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    It seems to have really kicked up a hornet’s nest.  If there’s
anything more to know later about this alleged serious national security
threat, I think we would all just love to be, you know, briefed or
informed in whatever way you guys can.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I —  
  
Q    If the timetable on his meeting, for example, moves up to today or
something.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I understand.  
  
Q    (Inaudible.)  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  And Jake did say, at this time, he’s not in a position
to speak about this.  I’m going to leave that to our National Security
Advisor.  Obviously, it is in his lane — very much in his lane, but I
will make sure that I pass that along.   
  
But, yes, just to answer your first question, as I did moments ago, the
President did call Secretary Mayorkas earlier today, and they had a
conversation.  I’m not going to get into their private conversation, but
they did connect.  
  
Oh, my goodness.  I’m going in the back.  Go ahead.  Way in the back, go
ahead.  No, right — yeah.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  We’ve spoken here about the White House’s outreach
to Republicans about the Senate foreign aid bill.  But, for example,
Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez was on TV last night sort of
saying that she was a little bit skeptical about the humanitarian
provisions in that bill.  What is the White House doing in terms of
outreach to more progressive Democrats?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, the — our Office of Leg Affairs and other
White House officials are in — always in direct contact — continuous
contact with congressional members — obviously, congressional leadership
as well.  So, I can assure you that we’ve had regular conversations. 
I’m not going to get into private conversation.  
  
We hear the congresswoman’s concerns.  I just don’t have anything to
share outside of what she said.  
  
Q    And next week is the second anniversary of Russia’s invasion of
Ukraine.  Should we expect, sort of, programming around that?  He has
given — the President has given sort of big speeches about that in the
past.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  Yeah, and as you know, he went to Poland.  He
went to Ukraine, actually, in a warzone country, obviously, last year in
— and Poland.  I just don’t have anything to share about any travel or —
or remarks.  
  
Go ahead, Annie.  
  
Q    Thanks.  When Secretary Austin was initially hospitalized or when
the news came out about that, the White House said that there would be a
hotwash about his hospitalization and why that information hadn’t been
shared more quickly.  Can you give us an update on the status of that
hotwash?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have an update.  I know that’s something that
the Department of Defense was doing.  I don’t have an update on that.  I
would refer you to them directly on that specific question.  
  
Q    And then just one other question on East Palestine.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    Can you give us any more of a sense for why the President is going
on Friday?  Why — why does Friday evening make the most sense?  And, you
know, what can we expect to hear from him?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, we’ll have certainly more to share with you.  As
you just stated, the President is going to go to East Palestine this
coming Friday.  It was at the invitation of the mayor.  The President
has always said when the time is right and when it made sense for him to
go, he would go.  And so, that’s what he’s doing.   
  
He’s going to be on the ground.  He’s going to get a briefing and — on
what’s happening.  He’s going to hear directly from the people of Pales-
— Palestine — Palestine.  And — and obviously this — this administration
is continuing to make sure that Norfolk Southern is held accountable,
and we want to make sure that we support the community as it moves
forward.  
  
And they have said they do not want to be defined — the community does
not want to be defined by this one event.  And so, we’re going — the
President is going to be on the ground.  And we’ve had those key
important agencies — FEMA, including DOT and others, and EPA, obviously
— on the ground since day one making sure that the community has what it
needs.  And we’re going to obviously continue to call on Congress to
pass the Bipartisan Railway Safety Act.  
  
So, in short, the President is going to hear from the community.  We’ve
been there since day one, hours after the derailment.  We continue to be
on the ground.  We want to make sure that the community knows that we’re
going to do everything possible to hold accountable Norfolk Southern. 
And the President is looking forward to having those conversations and
getting the briefing on the ground as — so, we’ll have more.  
  
Go ahead, in the back.  
  
Q    A new poll found that nearly one in five Americans believe that
Taylor Swift was part of a plot to help President Biden win the
election.  This conspiracy is particularly resonating with voters who
believe the 2020 election was stolen.  Is the White House concerned at
all about this conspiracy theory and the fact that so many Americans
believe it?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, I mean, we’ve talked about this before. 
Obviously, what we saw on January 6th in 2021 spoke to — spoke to that. 
It was an attack on our democracy, and the 2,000-plus angry mob that was
there was there falsely believing that they — it was their right or they
could be able to turnov- — turnover — turnover an election.  
  
That was, by the way — you know, there were Republican judges, Democrat
judges, many others who said it was one of the safest elections that
we’ve had and — and that the results, obviously, were the results of
2020.   
  
And so, do we — we have a concern about our democracy and where it’s
going and protecting our democracy?  The President speaks to this all
the time.  The President has made really critical, key remarks about
that.  And does — Americans care about that.  You have a majority of
Americans who actually believe that we need to protect our democracy, we
need to protect our freedom.  We saw that in the results of 2022, in
that midterm election.  That’s what came out of that — one of the big
issues that came out of that.   
  
And so, we’re always going to be concerned, obviously, and speak to it. 
And, you know, there’s a lot in front of Americans right now as it
relates to our democracy, as it relates to our — to our freedoms.   
  
Anything else, look, I — you know, the Taylor Swift conspiracy, that’s
for others to speak to.  I’m not going to speak that from here.   
  
Go ahead, Jacqui.  
  
Q    Karine, the President said yesterday that he would be taking
questions today or tomorrow.  What was he referring to?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have anything to — to share at this time.  As
you — as you know, the President takes questions from you all often.  I
don’t have a — anything on the public schedule to speak to.   
  
As you know, the President is going to be in — in Ohio on Friday.  Just
don’t have anything to share on his public schedule.  
  
Q    Well, this is the second time, I think, in as many weeks that he
has referenced taking questions at some point in the near future.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    I’m just wondering: Are White House advisors having discussions
about generally the President finding more opportunities to take
questions from reporters?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, he said it last week, and he did.  He took
questions from you on — on that Thursday when he said that he would get
back to you on Thursday or see you on Thursday.  Give — he gave remarks
and took questions.   
  
So, look, we always try to find ways to — for him to have engagement
with all of you.  He takes initiative, obviously, on his own, many
times, whether it’s on the South Lawn, whether it’s on the road, whether
it’s here in the — at the White House to take questions from all of
you.  I just don’t have anything on his schedule to speak to at this
time.  
  
Q    But was he likely referencing some kind of speech like he gave last
week and then questions afterwards, or are we —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, I really don’t have any — anything to share on
the schedule.  I would say, you know, may- — you know, who knows.  We’ll
see if something lands — lands on his schedule.  (Laughs.)  You guys
asked me yesterday, and I’m always very, very careful on — on that.   
  
Q    It’s Valentine’s Day.  Are we going to have a late night? 
(Laughter.)  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  It’s Valentine’s Day.  He wants to share his love to —
with all of you.  I — you know, I just don’t have anything.  I mean,
yesterday, you all — you —  
  
Q    Do it before dinner time.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Do it before dinner time?  Oh, you have a date — date
night tonight?  
  
Q    Something like that.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, you’re — you’re a good — you’re a good guy. 
(Laughter.)  
  
Q    I’m glad that’s in the official record.  (Laughter.)  
  
Q    (Inaudible.) (Laughter.)  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  But you all asked that me that yesterday, and I — I’m
always very careful, you know, and — and didn’t have anything at — at
the time when you all asked me — asked me the same question.   
  
Look, I just don’t have anything right now to speak to — the President’s
public schedule today or tomorrow.   
  
But stay tuned, as we like to say from here.  Stay tuned.  
  
All right, everybody.   
  
Q    Karine, the three police officers —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  We’ll see you tomorrow.  
  
Q    Karine, the three police officers shot today in D.C.  Can you —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  I’ll say —   
  
Q    Is the President aware of that?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’ll say something about that because I think that’s
important.  Give me one second.   
  
Q    Yeah, there were three police officers shot while trying to make an
arrest.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, I — I understand.  
  
Q    Okay.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I understand.  I got you.   
  
So, let me just say a couple of things here.  First and foremost, our
hearts go out to these officers and their loved ones.  The President is
praying they make full recoveries, and he is deeply grateful for the
sacrifices police officers make to keep our community safe.  This
shooting is yet another distressing and painful reminder of the toll gun
violence is inflicting on families, on our communities, and, obviously,
on our a — nation.   
  
It’s why the President has taken executive actions to help keep guns out
of the dangerous hands and DOJ is implementing the new gun trafficking
law in the Bipartisan Safer Communities Act.   
  
But it’s not enough.  We need — we need the Republicans in Congress to
act.  We need them to be willing to make — to make sure that communities
are safer.  That’s what we continue to ask them to do.   
  
The President is going to take — continue to take action to fund the
police with billions of dollars in his budget that he’s put forth every
year.  But he needs Republican laws and — lawmakers in Congress to make
sure that they put law enforcement first, as well as the President has
been doing.  
  
Q    And to follow up —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — doesn’t, you know — in D.C., homicides are up, crime is up,
carjacking is spiking.  Simple question: Does the President believe the
nation’s capital is safe for Americans from across the country to come
visit?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, look, we see — we hear the reports and see the
data as well.  And all violent crime anywhere is completely
unacceptable, not just here in D.C.  We’re going to call that — them all
out in communities across the country.   
  
Everyone in every community in this country wants the same thing.  They
want their families to be safe.  And — and not getting into a — not get
into, you know, politics on this.  The President is wanting to make sure
that communities feel safe.   
  
And we’re not seeing that from congressional Republicans.  We’re just
not.  They continue to get in the way.  The President has taken action. 
He puts — he puts that in his budget every day, making sure that we make
communities safer.  And we’re just not seeing that from Republicans.   
  
And so, we’re going to continue to do our job here.  We want Congress,
co- — Republican congressional members to join us in that.  And I’m
going to leave it there.   
  
I’ll see you all tomorrow.  Thanks, everybody.  
  
Q    Happy Valentine’s, ma’am.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Happy Valentine’s Day.   
  
1:13 P.M. EST  
