---
date: '2025-03-07'
published_time: 2025-03-07 09:30:49-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/articles/2025/03/manufacturing-is-roaring-back-under-president-donald-j-trump/
tags: articles
title: Manufacturing is Roaring Back Under President Donald J. Trump
---
 
*** ****“In one month under President Trump, the American economy is
soaring back to greatness after the economic calamity left by Joe Biden.
The manufacturing industry is already rebounding as there were 9,000 new
auto jobs created — the most auto jobs added in 15 months! Under
President Trump, the private sector is leading the way — 93% of the job
gains in February were in the private sector. This is great news for
American workers and families. The Trump Administration will continue to
work hard to implement pro-growth policies and push Congress to enact
the Trump Economic Agenda.” **— Karoline Leavitt, White House Press
Secretary***

Today’s [jobs report](https://www.bls.gov/news.release/empsit.nr0.htm)
shows American manufacturing is on the rebound thanks to President
Donald J. Trump and his administration.

The country gained 10,000 [manufacturing
jobs](https://data.bls.gov/timeseries/CES3000000001) in President
Trump’s first full month in office — a swift turnaround after losing an
average of 9,000 manufacturing jobs per month, or 111,000 total, in the
final year of the Biden Administration.

The rebound in manufacturing jobs was led by the [automobile
sector](https://data.bls.gov/timeseries/CES3133600101), which gained
8,900 new jobs in February — after losing 27,300 auto jobs in Biden’s
final year — showing that firms are reshoring production and positively
responding to President Trump’s trade policies.

The manufacturing turnaround has been confirmed by S&P Global’s own U.S.
[manufacturing
survey](https://www.pmi.spglobal.com/Public/Home/PressRelease/56a83c0dc6ff48ec87a0d61334eea8dd),
which surged last month to its highest level since June 2022, and the
[Manufacturing ISM Report On
Business](https://www.ismworld.org/supply-management-news-and-reports/reports/ism-report-on-business/pmi/january/),
which returned to expansion territory after 26 consecutive months of
contraction.

**America is back under President Trump — and he’s just getting
started.**
