---
date: '2025-03-20'
modified_time: 2025-03-21 08:01:04-04:00
published_time: 2025-03-20 22:36:34-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/articles/2025/03/advocates-lawmakers-parents-applaud-president-trumps-bold-action-on-education/
tags: articles
title: "Advocates, Lawmakers, Parents Applaud President Trump\u2019s Bold Action on\
  \ Education"
---
 
Today, President Donald J. Trump
[signed](https://x.com/RapidResponse47/status/1902823012636020845) an
[executive
order](https://x.com/RapidResponse47/status/1902823460730007897) to
officially begin the process of closing the Department of Education.
After more than four decades and over $3 trillion spent with virtually
[nothing to show for
it](https://www.whitehouse.gov/articles/2025/03/on-education-president-trump-knows-we-can-do-better/),
President Trump’s bold plan will return education back where it belongs
— with the states.

**President Trump’s executive action was met with immediate praise:**

[**Gov. Greg
Abbott**](https://x.com/GregAbbott_TX/status/1902812103888486659)**:**
“At the White House right now. Headed to see President @realDonaldTrump
return control of education back to the states—where it belongs.”

[**Gov. Mike
Braun**](https://x.com/GovBraun/status/1902823436096856088)**:**
“Education is a state and local responsibility. I support President
Trump’s bold action to return education to where it belongs and to put
parents in the driver’s seat of their children’s education. Indiana is
leading the way, having jumped from a middle of the pack state to sixth
in the nation in reading. Hoosiers know what our students need to
succeed better than bureaucrats in D.C.”

[**Gov. Mike
DeWine**](https://x.com/govmikedewine/status/1902832790623690903?s=46)**:**
“Every student, family, and community is different. … By giving states
more authority over education, we will have the flexibility to focus our
efforts on tailoring an educational experience that is best for our
children and that meets Ohio’s needs, rather than trying to chase
federal priorities.”

[**Gov. Jeff
Landry**](https://x.com/LAGovJeffLandry/status/1902825138187342102)**:**
“The United States spends the most on education, yet we are ranked at
the bottom of nearly every poll. The time for change is NOW! Thank you
President @realDonaldTrump for returning education where it belongs— the
states!”

[**Gov. Bill
Lee**](https://x.com/govbilllee/status/1902826947853308042?s=46)**:**
“Proud to be at the White House today as President @realDonaldTrump
delivers on his promise to return education to the states & parents.”

**[Gov. Joe
Lombardo](https://www.breitbart.com/politics/2025/03/20/exclusive-nevada-gov-joe-lombardo-president-trumps-historic-education-reforms-will-rightfully-return-education-back-to-the-states/):**
“Today, President Donald Trump delivered one of the most influential
reforms yet of his presidency: reducing the size of the Department of
Education and returning education back to state control. With his
Executive Order, President Trump has boldly reimagined what education
can – and should – look like in our country.”

[**Gov. Kim
Reynolds**](https://x.com/KimReynoldsIA/status/1902833344204902665)**:**
“Education decisions should be made by those who know students
best—parents, teachers, and local communities. Thank you, President
@realDonaldTrump and @EDSecMcMahon, for your leadership and commitment
to education freedom. It was an honor to attend today’s historic signing
– Iowa stands ready!”

**[Gov. Larry
Rhoden](https://x.com/GovLarryRhoden/status/1902857009193460137):** “I
am glad to have a president who recognizes that South Dakota can make
better decisions for our kids than DC ever could. Thank you to
@realDonaldTrump for signing an Executive Order that returns authority
over education to the states and the people.”

[**Gov. Sarah Huckabee
Sanders**](https://x.com/sarahhuckabee/status/1902834692560392232?s=46)**:**
“President @realDonaldTrump knows the one-size-fits-all approach will
never meet the needs of every child.   Thank you, Mr. President for
fighting for parents and students across the country!”

[**Gov. Kevin
Stitt**](https://x.com/GovStitt/status/1902786197090410973)**:** “Today
is a great day to dismantle the Department of Education.”

[**Gov. Glenn
Youngkin**](https://www.governor.virginia.gov/newsroom/news-releases/2025/march/name-1043143-en.html)**:**
“Virginia is ready to take full responsibility for K-12 education. We
have implemented a high-expectations agenda that sets rigorous
standards, holds schools accountable for results and prioritizes
resources to the students and schools that need the most support. We
welcome the federal government’s shift of responsibility to the
states—and we are grateful that President Trump’s executive order does
just that. The EO also makes it clear that there will be no
discrimination in the classrooms. We will continue to ensure every
student graduates career-, college-, or military-ready.”

[**Senate Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions Committee Chairman Bill
Cassidy**](https://www.help.senate.gov/rep/newsroom/press/chair-cassidy-applauds-trump-effort-to-return-education-power-to-students-and-families)**:**
“I agree with President Trump that the Department of Education has
failed its mission. Since the Department can only be shut down with
Congressional approval, I will support the President’s goals by
submitting legislation to accomplish this as soon as possible.”

[**Sen. John
Barrasso**](https://x.com/SenJohnBarrasso/status/1902824411813540095)**:**
“President Trump is improving America’s education system. The true
strength of our education system lies with the states and our local
communities. Today’s executive order sidelines the Washington
bureaucracy and puts Wyoming parents in the driver’s seat when it comes
to their child’s education.”

[**Sen. Marsha
Blackburn**](https://x.com/MarshaBlackburn/status/1902821430066094296)**:**
“President Trump has my full support in eliminating the Department of
Education. Bring the money back to states and with the students.”

[**Sen. John
Cornyn**](https://x.com/JohnCornyn/status/1902846506060616078)**:** “I
applaud this bold move by @POTUS and @EDSecMcMahon to give education
policy back to state & local educators and parents. Texas is already a
leader in empowering parents, & this is the right move by POTUS to
support children over unions, unlike the Biden administration”

[**Sen. Markwayne
Mullin**](https://x.com/SenMullin/status/1902827200040276248)**:**
“Parents know the truth, and the data is clear: DC control of education
is NOT working. One size doesn’t fit all. @POTUS is empowering families,
teachers, and local communities to improve outcomes and create greater
opportunities for our students. Promises made, promises kept.”

**[Sen. Rand Paul](https://x.com/RandPaul/status/1902882771745509603):**
“My father introduced legislation to eliminate the Dept of Education in
the early 1980s. Rep. Massie continued the same bill – one sentence –
and I’ve introduced the Senate version.  Thanks to President Trump for
working to return education to the states.”

[**Sen. Pete
Ricketts**](https://x.com/SenatorRicketts/status/1902838106950119483)**:**
“Federal education policy should empower parents, states, and local
school districts, not federal bureaucrats. That’s what is happening in
this administration. @POTUS is refocusing the Education Department on
its core missions and pushing power back to the state and local level.”

[**Sen. Mike
Rounds**](https://x.com/SenatorRounds/status/1902837771321909608)**:**
“The federal BUREACRACY of Education has never educated a single
student. It’s time to shut it down. Today’s news is a step in the right
direction. Congress should follow the executive branch’s lead and act
accordingly. I am working on legislation that would return education
decisions to states and local school districts while maintaining
important programs like special education and Title I. We are discussing
this legislation with Secretary McMahon and we believe there is a very
good path forward.”

[**Sen. Rick
Scott**](https://x.com/SenRickScott/status/1902823100825125203)**:** “As
the federal Department of Education has grown, student performance has
consistently declined. @POTUS & @EDSecMcMahon’s decisive action will
empower parents, teachers & students to make decisions that drive
students’ success.”

[**Sen. Tommy
Tuberville**](https://x.com/SenTuberville/status/1902844183301300316)**:**
“The federal government doesn’t belong in the classroom, plain and
simple. Promises made, promises kept.”

[**Speaker Mike
Johnson**](https://x.com/SpeakerJohnson/status/1902831256196497807)**:**
“For many decades, the federal Department of Education has failed our
students, families, and teachers. Education is best administered by
parents and teachers and those closest to students, not bureaucrats in
Washington, DC. President Trump is keeping his promise and returning
education to the states.”

[**Chairwoman Lisa
McClain**](https://x.com/RepLisaMcClain/status/1902824641674244112)**:**
“The U.S. Department of Education has been pushing woke policies for far
too long. There is too much bloated federal bureaucracy. Despite more
money being spent, test scores have not improved. We should focus the
dollars on the students, not administrators. I look forward to working
with @POTUS and @EdSecMcMahon to improve education in America.”

[**House Education and Workforce Committee Chairman Tim
Walberg**](https://edworkforce.house.gov/news/documentsingle.aspx?DocumentID=412264)**:**
“The key to improving education is empowering parents and students and
reducing the role of Washington bureaucrats. Over the last four years,
the nation has seen the results of empowering the Department of
Education. … We now have a secretary of education, Linda McMahon, who
understands the importance of getting the federal government out of the
way. And I look forward to working alongside her to get the federal
government off the backs of students, families, educators, and
taxpayers. Bottom line, the Department of Education has failed to
deliver results for America’s students and today’s actions by the Trump
administration will help ensure our nation’s youth are put first.”

[**Rep. Brian
Babin**](https://x.com/RepBrianBabin/status/1902823928944263453)**:**
“President Trump just took education OUT of the hands of woke elites and
gave it BACK to parents! His executive order ensures states, NOT DC,
make decisions for our kids.”

[**Rep. Jim
Baird**](https://x.com/RepJimBaird/status/1902825512700870886)**:**
“This Executive Order is a monumental step in making school choice a
reality for every family, improving educational outcomes for our
students, empowering parents, and making American education great
again.”

[**Rep. Stephanie
Bice**](https://x.com/RepBice/status/1902830764804259909)**:** “Today’s
executive order from @POTUS empowers parents and renews commitments to
put the educational needs of our children above the desires of
Washington bureaucrats. This executive order will reduce regulations and
streamline the process of sending funding to states and localities.”

[**Rep. Andy
Biggs**](https://x.com/RepAndyBiggsAZ/status/1902826843788714306)**:**
“Taxpayer funding for public schools is at an all-time high, but test
scores are at an all-time low. The radical Biden-Harris regime
weaponized the Department of Education against their opponents.
President Trump is rightfully returning power to the States and
parents.”

[**Rep. Ben
Cline**](https://x.com/RepBenCline/status/1902848599920181438)**:**
“President Trump’s Executive Order to begin closing the federal
education department puts parents and students first by restoring local
control over education. The Department of Education has spent too long
pushing woke policies instead of focusing on student success.”

[**Rep. Michael
Cloud**](https://x.com/RepCloudTX/status/1902823285265666108)**:** “The
Department of Education has failed to actually educate our children for
decades—instead pushing CRT and allowing boys in girls’ bathrooms.
Dismantling this bureaucracy and returning power to states and parents
is crucial to make America the best in world in education again.”

[**Rep. Andrew
Clyde**](https://x.com/Rep_Clyde/status/1902816735612334528)**:**
“President Trump knows we can—and must—do better. It all starts with
dismantling the Department of Education.”

[**Rep. Eli
Crane**](https://x.com/RepEliCrane/status/1902847819842494931)**:**
“Insanity is doing the same thing over and over again and expecting
different results. The Department of Education has failed our nation’s
students for decades. It’s time to chart a new path. Thank you to
President Trump for having the courage to do this.”

[**Rep. Mike
Collins**](https://x.com/RepMikeCollins/status/1902824209874837599)**:**
“The federal government’s involvement in schools has been a failure and
never should have started. I strongly support @POTUS’s Executive Order
to put education back in the hands of parents, states, and communities,
rather than failing federal systems.”

[**Rep. Jeff
Crank**](https://x.com/RepJeffCrank/status/1902821995710124052)**:** “I
have been incredibly vocal in my support for eliminating the Department
of Education. I applaud @POTUS Trump’s decision in returning the power
of education decisions to parents and local governments, where it
rightfully belongs.”

[**Rep. Byron
Donalds**](https://x.com/ByronDonalds/status/1902829207551406496)**:**
“@usedgov has FAILED. They prioritized bureaucracy over the success of
our kids. Thank you @realDonaldTrump for signing this historic EO. It’s
time to return education to the states & in Florida, we will ensure our
kids are not just at grade-level, but that they’re PROFICIENT.”

[**Rep. Tom
Emmer**](https://x.com/GOPMajorityWhip/status/1902842286389531124)**:**
“The best education is closest to the child. This is a win for America’s
children! Thank you, @POTUS.”

[**Rep. Chuck
Edwards**](https://x.com/RepChuckEdwards/status/1902833324336238895)**:**
“.@POTUS just signed an executive order to close the Department of
Education, finally returning education authority back to the states and
parents who know what their student needs to succeed best. The
historically high tax dollars funding the department have not paid off,
with repeatedly low test scores among students. This order puts the
interests of our youth first by getting rid of the bureaucracies that
hinder quality education.”

[**Rep. Russell
Fry**](https://x.com/RepRussellFry/status/1902821728696537219)**:**
“Since the creation of @usedgov, it has spent over $3 TRILLION! And for
what? America has some of the lowest test and literacy scores in the
world. @POTUS is giving the power of the purse back to the people
closest to our children—states and parents.”

[**Rep. Virginia
Foxx**](https://x.com/virginiafoxx/status/1902824235917037889)**:**
“Love to see it.”

[**Rep. Lance
Gooden**](https://x.com/Lancegooden/status/1902826970053824693)**:**
“The Department of Education does not run a single school or teach a
single student. Yet, the department spent $268 billion last year. I
applaud President Trump’s plan to dismantle this rampant bureaucracy and
return power to parents!”

[**Rep. Andy
Harris**](https://x.com/RepAndyHarrisMD/status/1902824936898695370)**:**
“The Department of Education has failed its mission because it is
promoting everything EXCEPT reading, writing, and arithmetic. President
Trump is returning education back to the states and giving power to
parents and students.”

[**Rep. Mark
Harris**](https://x.com/RepMarkHarrisNC/status/1902824008464089188)**:**
“Despite endless taxpayer dollars being poured into the Department of
Education, it has utterly failed its mission. Our education system has
gotten worse. National test scores show that many students have been
left behind. President Trump is right — the Department of Education must
go. I promise to use every tool at my disposal to help him return the
reins to parents and local teachers. They know what’s best for our
nation’s children, not unelected bureaucrats in the Swamp. Let’s make
education great again!”

[**Rep. Diana
Harshbarger**](https://x.com/RepHarshbarger/status/1902824380213715399)**:**
“President Trump’s executive order directing the Secretary of Education
to take all necessary steps to permanently close the Department of
Education is HUGE. Something as important as our children’s education
should be in the hands of states and parents—not the federal
government—which has proven to be nothing more than a money pit with no
positive effects on students!”

[**Rep. Erin
Houchin**](https://x.com/RepHouchin/status/1902839941819679067)**:**
“President Trump’s executive order to scale down the federal Department
of Education will return control of education to the states and local
communities. This will empower parents and families to make decisions
about students’ education rather than bureaucrats in Washington. The
federal DOE has failed to deliver results for our students for decades.
This order and legislation to follow will prioritize academic
excellence, innovation, and parental choice and will reduce federal
overreach in education. It is a win for families and the future of
America’s students!”

[**Rep. John
James**](https://x.com/RepRileyMoore/status/1902851933075017787)**:**
“It’s official: @POTUS has signed an executive order to dismantle the
Department of Education! Educational outcomes have been disastrous since
the Department’s creation, and it’s time we fully returned the
decision-making authority back to the states!”

[**Rep. Jim
Jordan**](https://x.com/Jim_Jordan/status/1902822467212550581)**:**
“Democrats want federal bureaucrats to control your child’s school.
Republicans want to give parents the choice to do what’s best for their
children.”

[**Rep. Nancy
Mace**](https://x.com/RepNancyMace/status/1902843593741701409)**:**
“Thank you President Trump for returning education back to the states,
where it belongs.”

[**Rep. Addison
McDowell**](https://x.com/RepMcDowell/status/1902826784531316741)**:**
“There it is – @realDonaldTrump delivering on yet another promise! Under
the Department of Education’s watch, math and reading scores are at
historic lows. It’s time for change. President Trump is putting children
and parents first.”

[**Rep. Mary
Miller**](https://x.com/RepMaryMiller/status/1902821798267232593)**:**
“Today is a historic day for students and parents across America. As a
mother of seven homeschooled children, I applaud President Trump for
completing his promise to dismantle the Department of Education and put
parents back in control. For far too long, our students have been left
behind by woke, unaccountable Washington bureaucrats and a bloated
system failing them academically. Now, our country has the opportunity
to expand educational freedom, increase opportunities for families, and
unlock our full potential.”

[**Rep. Mariannette
Miller-Meeks**](https://x.com/RepMMM/status/1902831254665396620)**:**
“For years, the DOE has pushed woke policies over merit, special
interests over students. All while math and reading at grade level has
plummeted. That era is over. States, local governments, and Iowa parents
know our students’ needs better than DC bureaucrats.   I remain
committed to working with President Trump to advance education in
America while ensuring FAFSA is reformed and Pell Grants are
uninterrupted.”

[**Rep. Barry
Moore**](https://x.com/RepBarryMoore/status/1902828713093308741)**:**
“President Trump continues to deliver on the promises he made to the
American people. This is a massive step toward making the United States
the standard in education on the world stage once again!”

[**Rep. Troy
Nehls**](https://x.com/RepTroyNehls/status/1902827650755833918)**:**
“President Trump just signed an executive order to return power over
education back to the states and families—where it belongs. Unelected
bureaucrats should not have power over our children’s education. States
and families should.”

[**Rep. Ralph
Norman**](https://x.com/RepRalphNorman/status/1902824465785905392)**:**
“Say bye to overregulation and hello to STATES deciding what goes on in
schools. Essential programs within the @usedgov will be maintained &
efficiency will be restored!!”

[**Rep. Andy
Ogles**](https://x.com/RepOgles/status/1902841504969658811)**:** “For
far too long the Department of Education has been poisoning the minds of
students by injecting woke, anti-America curriculum into our schools. It
has overseen the sharpest decline in American literacy and international
rankings. Thank you, @POTUS, for taking steps to dismantle the Dept. of
Ed and hand education back to the states.”

[**Rep. Burgess
Owens**](https://x.com/RepBurgessOwens/status/1902835288843436495)**:**
“The Education Department was born out of a deal between President
Carter and the teachers unions to hand education policy to a class of
bureaucrats who care more about their own power than educating children.
It’s time to put states in charge and parents in the driver’s seat.”

[**Rep. Scott
Perry**](https://x.com/RepScottPerry/status/1902822382861160495)**:**
“The Constitution provides no mandate for the federal government to be
involved in education — for a reason.   The responsibility of educating
our children was rightfully entrusted to the States, and I support its
return to them — while ensuring the effective and uninterrupted delivery
of services, programs, and benefits on which the American People
rely.    The Department of Education has spent TRILLIONS since 1980,
without improving student achievement. Change is long overdue.”

**[Rep. August
Pfluger](https://x.com/RepPfluger/status/1902883224893665403):** “We all
want the same thing: a strong education system that puts the needs of
our children first. Unfortunately, the Biden administration weaponized
the Department of Education resulting in taxpayer funding for public
schools being at an all-time high, while test scores are at an all-time
low. Today’s executive order returns power to the states and parents to
decide what goes on in schools.”

[**Rep. Chip
Roy**](https://x.com/RepChipRoy/status/1902831822817448077)**:** “A
VICTORY for students, teachers, and parents. A LOSS for union bosses and
bureaucrats.”

[**Rep. Keith
Self**](https://x.com/RepKeithSelf/status/1902823457462821222)**:**
“Groundbreaking news for every parent and student in America:  
Washington bureaucrats will no longer wield education authority and
enact progressive social experiments on your children.   Power over
education is going back to YOUR state and to YOUR family! Thank you,
President Trump for keeping your promise!”

[**Rep. Adrian
Smith**](https://x.com/RepAdrianSmith/status/1902826727744868672)**:**
“We owe it to American students to examine whether they are better off
since the Department of Education’s inception more than a half-century
ago. Just since 2000, federal spending has ballooned 649 percent while
student proficiencies and the number of ED employees have declined. It’s
clear such ineffectiveness is not worth such a monumental expense.
Parents deserve a greater voice in the classroom, and the federal
government should return this issue to the states.”

[**Rep. Dale
Strong**](https://x.com/RepDaleStrong/status/1902828079959118042)**:**
“I’ve long supported abolishing the Department of Education to
prioritize students over bureaucracy. President Trump took the first
step today with his Executive Order to return decision-making power to
the states and parents. I will work with him to make sure this gets done
for our parents and kids.”

[**Rep. Greg
Steube**](https://x.com/RepGregSteube/status/1902829908398690339)**:**
“President Trump’s executive order was a great first step. Congress must
follow @POTUS’ lead by abolishing the Department of Education once and
for all.”

[**Rep. Marlin
Stutzman**](https://x.com/RepStutzman/status/1902833845302382903)**:**
“The federalist system of government our country was founded upon gives
states the distinct privilege to make laws that are best for their
residents. When it comes to an issue as important as the education of
our children, no one knows better than those closest to them. Unelected
federal bureaucrats who have minimal knowledge of the real needs of the
future generation have only wasted tax dollars and made the education
our kids receive worse.  President Trump and Secretary McMahon are
putting education back to where it belongs – with our states.”

[**Rep. Tom
Tiffany**](https://x.com/RepTiffany/status/1902837173746839602)**:**
“President Trump is returning control of education to parents & local
communities. Washington bureaucrats have spent trillions since creating
the Department of Ed, yet student achievement has declined. It’s time to
give our children the education they need to succeed.”

[**Rep. William
Timmons**](https://x.com/RepTimmons/status/1902842773239103754)**:**
“Under the Biden Administration, the Department of Education wasted more
than $1 billion in grants focused on entrenching radical ideologies in
education. Under President Trump’s administration, Taxpayers will no
longer be burdened with progressive social experiments and obsolete
programs.”

[**Rep. Randy
Weber**](https://x.com/TXRandy14/status/1902822098403233973)**:**
“President Trump just put parents back in the driver’s seat on
education! No more DC bureaucrats calling the shots—power is returning
to the states where it belongs. A huge win for students, parents, and
freedom!”

[**Rep. Daniel
Webster**](https://x.com/RepWebster/status/1902823365913743595)**:**
“President @realDonaldTrump is fighting to take education out of
Washington bureaucrats hands and give it back to parents! @POTUS’s plan
will cut waste, expand school choice, and put the education of America’s
children first!”

[**Rep. Tim
Walberg**](https://x.com/RepWalberg/status/1902824521972822253)**:** “I
was honored to be on hand as @realDonaldTrump empowers students,
parents, and teachers over bureaucrats”

[**Rep. Rudy
Yakym**](https://x.com/RepRudyYakym/status/1902836458156695969): “The
Department of Education has failed its mission — spending more while
student test scores don’t improve. Putting control back in the hands of
states means putting parents back in charge and empowering families,
teachers, and communities to create better opportunities for our kids’
futures.”

[**Oklahoma State Superintendent of Public Instruction Ryan
Walters**](https://x.com/ryanwalters_/status/1902822240242024778?s=46)**:**
“For too long, the federal government has weaponized education, using it
to push radical, leftist ideology while stripping parents of their
rights and directing funds to union bosses President Trump’s executive
order marks a pivotal moment in American history, the federal money grab
ends today.”

[**Virginia Secretary of Education Aimee Rogstad
Guidera**](https://www.governor.virginia.gov/newsroom/news-releases/2025/march/name-1043143-en.html)**:**
“Virginians know best what Virginia students need and what works here in
Virginia, and accordingly, we should be both responsible and accountable
for results to the families of the Commonwealth. T he President’s
Executive Order ensures that federal dollars will arrive in Virginia
with less red tape and bureaucracy and allow the State Board of
Education, Virginia Department of Education, and local school divisions
to invest those resources in the most efficient and effective ways that
lead to the ultimate goal of improving student outcomes.”

[**Virginia Board of Education President Grace
Creasey**](https://www.governor.virginia.gov/newsroom/news-releases/2025/march/name-1043143-en.html)**:**
“President Trump’s executive order to return education leadership to the
states empowers parents and reduces federal overreach. For too long,
bureaucrats in Washington have dictated one-size-fits-all policies that
fail to address the unique needs of the Commonwealth’s students and
schools. Returning decision-making authority and funding to the states
can foster innovation, accountability, and better educational outcomes.
This is about putting parents and state and local leaders back in charge
of education.”

[**Texas Attorney General Ken
Paxton**](https://x.com/KenPaxtonTX/status/1902836370558816636)**:**
“I’m proud to stand with @POTUS as he returns education back to the
states and empowers parents and students, not federal bureaucrats.”

[**America First Policy Institute Chair Erika
Donalds**](https://x.com/A1Policy/status/1902830557681394169)**:**
“President Trump’s bold action to return control of education to states
and local communities marks a pivotal moment for American families. … By
eliminating federal overreach in education, we can foster an environment
where innovation thrives, parents have greater choice, and students
receive the high-quality education they deserve. This move will allow
states to tailor educational approaches to their unique needs, free from
one-size-fits-all federal mandates, and voters can hold their state and
local elected officials accountable for the resulting academic
outcomes.”

[**Heritage Foundation President Dr. Kevin
Roberts**](https://www.heritage.org/press/heritage-foundation-applauds-executive-order-end-department-education)**:**
“From the moment it was created, the Department of Education was a
mistake. It was founded on the false premise that unelected bureaucrats
in Washington know better than parents and local communities when it
comes to educating children. For decades, it has funneled billions of
taxpayer dollars into a failing system—one that prioritizes leftist
indoctrination over academic excellence, all while student achievement
stagnates and America falls further behind. As a fifth-generation
educator—a professor, college president, and founder of a classical
school—I’ve seen firsthand what actually works: empowering parents,
keeping decision-making at the local level, and ensuring that funding
follows students, not bureaucracies. Now, President Trump is once again
proving he keeps his promises. He’s putting America first, restoring
common sense, and dismantling the bloated, ideological bureaucracies
that have hollowed out our institutions—starting with the Department of
Education.”

[**Center for Education Policy Director Lindsey
Burke**](https://www.heritage.org/press/heritage-foundation-applauds-executive-order-end-department-education)**:**
“This is a tremendous step toward restoring education control to states,
localities, and parents … Since the Department’s creation in 1980,
inflation-adjusted federal education spending has more than doubled, yet
student learning outcomes have remained flat, achievement gaps have
persisted, and college prices have soared. Federal bureaucrats’ central
planning cannot compare to the expertise that parents have about the
needs of their own children. I applaud the Trump administration for
taking steps to finally bring the agency’s closure to fruition.”

[**Discovery Institute’s American Center for Transforming Education
Senior Fellow Dr. Keri D.
Ingraham**](https://dailycaller.com/2025/03/20/trump-officially-orders-dismantling-of-department-of-education/)**:**
“With today’s executive order, President Trump is delivering on his
promise to the American people to dismantle the ineffective and
bureaucracy-ridden U.S. Department of Education and return education to
the states where it rightfully belongs. It is a historic day in our
nation that takes us one step closer to the goal of education freedom
for all families nationwide.”

[**ACE Scholarships CEO Norton
Rainey**](https://dailycaller.com/2025/03/20/trump-officially-orders-dismantling-of-department-of-education/)**:**
“Education should be focused on our children. But too often, it’s
hijacked by special interests and those more concerned with advancing
their own agendas than serving the best interests of students. For 40
years, the Department of Education’s K-12 efforts have been, at best, a
wasteful distraction. It’s time for a new approach that puts children
first by increasing choice and empowering parents instead of Washington
bureaucrats.”

[**American Federation for Children CEO Tommy
Schultz**](https://x.com/afcpress/status/1902816078759174380)**:** “With
this executive order, President Trump continues taking steps to fulfill
his campaign promises on education, and now it is time for Congress to
send school choice legislation to his desk so that he can fulfill his
other mandate to the voters. As soon as President Trump signs this
executive order directing the end of the federal Department of
Education, and later signs the Educational Choice for Children Act into
law, he will have both brought down a failed bureaucratic machine in DC,
and brought school choice to every state.”

[**American Principles Project President Terry
Schilling**](https://americanprinciplesproject.org/legislation/dismantledepartmentofed/)**:**
“The Department of Education has drastically failed its core mission.
Instead of improving student outcomes, it has become a bloated
bureaucratic mess that wastes billions of tax dollars and has been
weaponized by the far left to inject DEI and radical gender ideology
into classrooms and sports fields across this country. As a dad who had
to pull his kids out of public schools because of horrific educational
outcomes, harmful ideology, and rejection of all parental input, I know
first-hand the damage that our failing schools have on our kids. We
cannot continue down the path we’ve been on for the last 50 years – it’s
insanity. I am very thankful that President Trump recognizes the
Department’s shortcomings and is going to dismantle this ineffective
agency.”

[**Defense of Freedom
Institute**](https://x.com/DFIPolicy/status/1902828432859279502)**:**
“The Department’s rules and burdens have hurt, not helped, students.
Despite spending $3 trillion over 45 years, the Department has overseen
the cratering of academic progress and achievement in the United States.
We applaud President Trump and Secretary McMahon for their continued
commitment to enforcing our civil rights laws and funding for low-income
students and students with disabilities.”

[**American Legislative Exchange Council CEO Lisa B.
Nelson**](https://alec.org/press-release/alec-applauds-president-trumps-executive-order-to-dissolve-the-department-of-education/)**:**
“President Trump’s bold vision to shrink the federal bureaucracy within
the Department of Education and restore authority to the states marks a
long-overdue return of constitutional order. This is the natural,
unstoppable evolution of the parental empowerment movement sparked amid
the pandemic lockdowns. The states are ready for it, and they’ve been
clamoring for it. This executive order is a fundamental step forward in
the American education revolution. We fully support President Trump’s
leadership in eliminating wasteful, bureaucratic mandates that push
political agendas and divert taxpayer funds away from students. By
putting the states back in charge of this funding, students, families,
and teachers will be put first – rather than the bloated bureaucracy in
Washington, DC.”

[**Freedom Foundation CEO Aaron
Withe**](https://x.com/FreedomFdtn/status/1902822136982519816)**:** “The
Department of Education has failed America’s children, parents, and
communities for more than four decades. … Our Founders understood that
decisions about how to education children are best made by those closest
to them—parents, local educators, and community leaders who understand
their unique needs and values. By eliminating this unnecessary federal
department, we have the opportunity to free states and local districts
from burdensome regulations and finally shrink the excessive power of
teachers unions.”

[**The Center for Education
Reform**](https://forza.edreform.com/p/breaking-historic-eve-for-education?r=4imdk3&utm_campaign=post&utm_medium=web)**:**
“This long-overdue shift empowers parents, educators, and local
communities – those who truly understand the needs of students – to lead
the way in shaping the future of education.”

[**Moms for
Liberty**](https://x.com/Moms4Liberty/status/1902818417536618663)**:**
“President Trump is taking important steps to restore education to where
it should be: in the hands of educators who are closest to students in
their classrooms across the country.”

[**Independent Women’s Forum Senior Legal Analyst Inez
Stepman**](https://x.com/IWF/status/1902820980835446832)**:** “Starting
the process to shutting down the Department of Education is the
beginning of the end of an error. … The big sum of money that paid these
bureaucrats and their six-figure salaries will now flow back to state
education systems, where it can be used for what the American people
think of as education: for students, teachers, and classrooms.”

[**Manhattan Institute Senior Fellow Christopher
Rufo**](https://x.com/realchrisrufo/status/1902732606304653735)**:**
“This is the culmination of a long campaign. Republicans have promised
to abolish the Department of Education for almost fifty years, but only
President Trump is getting it done. An incredible moment in history.”

[**School Choice Activist Corey
DeAngelis**](https://x.com/DeAngelisCorey/status/1902812149979730182)**:**
“Make Education Great Again.”
