---
date: '2025-03-05'
modified_time: 2025-03-05 01:26:33-05:00
published_time: 2025-03-05 01:19:22-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/articles/2025/03/what-they-are-saying-president-trumps-masterclass-before-congress/
tags: articles
title: "What They Are Saying: President Trump\u2019s Masterclass Before Congress"
---
 
Tonight, during his first address to a joint session of Congress in his
second term, President Donald J. Trump delivered a powerful, masterful
speech highlighting the remarkable accomplishments of his first six
weeks in office and charting a course for four years of prosperity.

The address received widespread acclaim. 76% of Americans
[approved](https://x.com/RapidResponse47/status/1897163794096513455) of
the speech, according to a CBS poll, while a CNN poll
[showed](https://x.com/RapidResponse47/status/1897157412626554995) 69%
of Americans had a positive reaction.

**Praise immediately poured in:**  
  
[**Speaker Mike
Johnson**](https://x.com/SpeakerJohnson/status/1897142829337731360):
“Tonight, President Trump made his triumphant return to Congress to
share his bold, optimistic vision for renewing the American Dream.”  
  
[**Sen. Ted
Cruz**](https://x.com/RapidResponse47/status/1897146534002929880)**:**
“This is the fifth State of the Union address I’ve seen Trump give — it
was by far his best.”  
  
[**Fox News’s Bret
Baier**](https://x.com/RapidResponse47/status/1897137718309871952)**:**
“The best moment — emotional moment, was DJ, who’s battling cancer. He
wanted to be a police officer and during the speech, the president said
the Secret Service has made him an agent.”  
  
[**Fox News’s Brit
Hume**](https://x.com/RapidResponse47/status/1897138108753420418)**:**
“If you ever doubted that Donald Trump is the political colossus of our
time and our nation, this night and this speech should have put that to
rest.”  
  
[**Geraldo
Rivera**](https://x.com/GeraldoRivera/status/1897138307752190101)**:**
“Trump was strong, defiant and entertaining.”  
  
[**Clay Travis**](https://x.com/ClayTravis/status/1897129596547665963):
“This is the best speech of Donald Trump’s career. Just a phenomenal
litany of common sense and rational leadership. Great and heartwarming
guests. It’s a grand slam.”  
  
[**Chris
Cillizza**](https://x.com/ChrisCillizza/status/1897135559170015579)**:**
“That was a very effective speech. You can hate it or him. But that
speech was aimed squarely at issues where the public is with Trump — and
filled with made-for-sharing moments. A master image-maker at work (and
you can hate him and acknowledge that’s true!)”  
  
[**Riley
Gaines**](https://x.com/RapidResponse47/status/1897155497356386324): “I
am just left feeling inspired and hopeful and there’s so much to look
forward to.”  
  
[**Amber
Rose**](https://x.com/DaRealAmberRose/status/1897135108135772459)**:**
“Donald Trump just gave the greatest presidential speech of all-time.”  
  
[**Reince
Priebus**](https://x.com/RapidResponse47/status/1897150047743324346): “I
thought it was extremely strong. When he talked about… common sense
revolution, giving the government back to The People… I thought was
really insightful.”  
  
[**Breitbart’s Matthew
Boyle**](https://x.com/mboyle1/status/1897134692664807440)**:** “This
speech is one of Trump’s best ever, and the Democrat behavior during it
has been not only despicable but also colossally politically stupid.
Whoever is advising these idiots just steered their party into an even
deeper ditch than Joe Biden and Kamala Harris left them in.”  
  
[**Pennsylvania
resident**](https://x.com/RapidResponse47/status/1897147983399154149):
“I thought it was very positive… We used to be a country that would just
let everything happen… I think now, we’re taking back things that
should’ve never been given away. So, I think doing those tariffs… it’s
well overdue.”  
  
[**Secretary of State Marco
Rubio**](https://x.com/SecRubio/status/1897136226458550704): “An
inspiring and momentous speech. @POTUS returned to the White House with
a clear mandate from the American people to renew the American Dream.
His address tonight laid out exactly how he is keeping those promises
with a vision of peace through strength, and a stronger, safer, and more
prosperous United States.”  
  
[**Secretary of Homeland Security Kristi
Noem**](https://x.com/Sec_Noem/status/1897140422117613683): “Tonight,
President Trump laid out his vision to renew the American dream. In just
a few short weeks, President Trump’s immigration and border security
policies have led to an all-time-low in illegal crossings at the
southern border. The message is clear: America’s borders are closed to
lawbreakers.”  
  
[**Secretary of the Treasury Scott
Bessent**](https://x.com/SecScottBessent/status/1897134861988847869):
“Strength. Prosperity. Peace. Tonight, President Trump shared his
historic vision for our nation in renewing the American dream. He has
done more in the past six weeks for the American people, than the
previous administration in four years.”  
  
[**Secretary of the Interior Doug
Burgum**](https://x.com/SecretaryBurgum/status/1897134660053782942):
“The previous administration used a whole-of-government approach to
oppose reliable, affordable U.S. energy production in favor of
unreliable, unaffordable intermittent sources. The Trump administration
is working overtime to undo all the damage done during the Biden years
and we are fast-tracking America’s path to a New Golden Age through
Energy Dominance!”  
  
[**Secretary of Defense Pete
Hegseth**](https://x.com/SecDef/status/1897129602172248372): “Thank you
@POTUS it is the honor of my life to serve the American warfighter.”  
  
[**Secretary of Agriculture Brooke
Rollins**](https://x.com/SecRollins/status/1897140870975250815): “@POTUS
spoke loud and clear on American agriculture. He loves America’s
farmers, and they have no more faithful friend nor more powerful
champion. He will defend them, and if anyone doubted it — they don’t
after tonight.”  
  
[**Secretary of Energy Chris
Wright**](https://x.com/SecretaryWright/status/1897118005865406604):
“President Trump is renewing the American Dream, and we here @Energy are
with him every step of the way to unleash American energy dominance!”  
  
[**UN Ambassador-designate Elise
Stefanik**](https://x.com/RepStefanik/status/1897137065331998831): “In
just one month under President Trump, Americans have experienced record
results and the renewal of the American Dream with the triumphant return
of strong leadership to the Oval Office. From securing the border, to
cutting wasteful spending of our hard earned taxpayer dollars, to
reasserting America First peace through strength leadership to the world
stage, President Trump has delivered the most exceptional first month of
an American presidency in history. Promises made, promises kept. The
American Golden Age is here.”  
  
[**Secretary of Housing and Urban Development Scott
Turner**](https://x.com/SecretaryTurner/status/1897145979285262353):
“The American people sent President Trump to enact generational change
in Washington. What @POTUS has accomplished in less than two months is
nothing short of remarkable. This is what America first feels like.”  
  
[**Small Business Administration Administrator Kelly
Loeffler**](https://x.com/RapidResponse47/status/1897148483028873500):
“This was a tour de force of a President who, in 42 days, has more
accomplishments than Joe Biden had in four years — It is a new day in
America and people at home had to have loved what they’ve seen from this
great President.”  
  
[**Secretary of Education Linda
McMahon**](https://x.com/EDSecMcMahon/status/1897134979106349305):
“Tremendous address by President Trump tonight. America is back, & the
work is only beginning. I will work hard to make @POTUS’ vision for
education a reality — preparing our students for the workforce &
empowering their parents will be vital to our nation’s future
success.”  
  
[**EPA Administrator Lee
Zeldin**](https://x.com/epaleezeldin/status/1897135209273025004): “This
vision of President Trump will usher in the greatest four years in
American history. Honored to be a part of this amazing Cabinet working
hard to restore our nation to glory. Will continue to do my part @EPA to
Power the Great American Comeback.”  
  
[**Sen. Bernie
Moreno**](https://x.com/berniemoreno/status/1897143270733664655): “An
inspiring, emotional address from @realDonaldTrump!! But crazed partisan
Dems refused to applaud even a brave young man like DJ. Appalling!”  
  
[**Sen. Rick
Scott**](https://x.com/SenRickScott/status/1897134370311569837): “Under
President Trump’s strong leadership, our allies respect us, our
adversaries fear us, and the world respects us again!”  
  
[**Sen. Marsha
Blackburn**](https://x.com/MarshaBlackburn/status/1897151821929763168):
“What a great night! President Trump gave a fantastic address and laid
out the many accomplishments he and his administration have made during
these first six weeks back in office for the American people.”  
  
[**Sen. Markwayne
Mullin**](https://x.com/SenMullin/status/1897134773950423527): “@POTUS
commanded the podium for TWO hours. He’s restoring the American Dream
with relentless determination. “The Golden Age of America has only just
begun.”  
  
[**Sen. John
Cornyn**](https://x.com/JohnCornyn/status/1897145029464072392): “One of
the best lines from President Trump tonight during his state of the
union speech: to secure the border we didn’t need any new laws, what we
needed was a new president!  Amen.”  
  
[**Sen. Shelley Moore
Capito**](https://x.com/SenCapito/status/1897142969557471695): “@POTUS
delivered a strong vision for our country—one that prioritizes border
security, unleashing American energy, strengthening our military, and
providing tax relief for families.”  
  
[**Sen. Ted
Budd**](https://x.com/SenTedBuddNC/status/1897157225178870005): “Tonight
was about promises made, promises kept.”  
  
[**Sen. Jim
Risch**](https://x.com/SenatorRisch/status/1897143934931157417):
“Excellent speech, Mr. President! I am proud to work with my Republican
colleagues to support President Trump’s renewal of the American Dream.
@POTUS is the strong leader America needs!”  
  
[**Sen. Pete
Ricketts**](https://x.com/SenatorRicketts/status/1897142527675015531):
“It’s time to get our economy back on track. Under @POTUS’ first
administration, America’s economy was strong. Tonight, we heard him
commit to restoring prosperity and supporting American families. Relief
is on its way—and not a minute too soon.”  
  
[**Sen. Chuck
Grassley**](https://x.com/ChuckGrassley/status/1897135508444320080)**:**
“Pres Trump delivered a strong state of the union address He’s working w
Congress to make America safer + stronger + restore common sense in govt
After an impactful start to his presidency there’s a lot more work
2do”  
  
[**Sen. Jon
Husted**](https://x.com/SenJonHusted/status/1897143381824008372):
“Tonight, the president outlined what he’s doing to make our country
secure, strong, and prosperous.”  
  
[**Sen. Katie
Britt**](https://x.com/SenKatieBritt/status/1897142198438879698):
“Tonight @POTUS made it clear: We’re putting Americans first—securing
our nation, making streets safe, growing our prosperity, and unleashing
our energy potential.”  
  
[**Sen. Lindsey
Graham**](https://x.com/LindseyGrahamSC/status/1897138882258632930)**:**
“My take on President @realDonaldTrump’s address tonight: Inspiring,
funny, compelling and the Democrats’ worst nightmare.”  
  
[**Chairwoman Lisa
McClain**](https://x.com/RepLisaMcClain/status/1897097604011540757):
“President Trump’s message to the American people is clear: America is
BACK.”  
  
[**Rep. Claudia
Tenney**](https://x.com/RapidResponse47/status/1897148244951753167):
“This was one of the most tremendous experiences of my life. Donald
Trump hit it out of the park.”  
  
[**Rep. Brandon
Gill**](https://x.com/RepBrandonGill/status/1897137095308927398): “Help
is here. Hope is here. President Trump is here.”  
  
[**Rep. Mark
Alford**](https://x.com/RepMarkAlford/status/1897144773166948738): “What
a speech and what a time to be in America.”  
  
[**Rep. Stephanie
Bice**](https://x.com/RepBice/status/1897156148706615604): “President
Trump’s speech was a testament to the vision of the American people
which was suppressed under President Biden.”  
  
[**Rep. Gary
Palmer**](https://x.com/USRepGaryPalmer/status/1897153925545079061):
“President Trump’s speech tonight was the embodiment of ‘promises made,
promises kept.’”  
  
[**Rep. Troy
Downing**](https://x.com/RepTroyDowning/status/1897152777023054278):
“What a speech. It’s never been so clear that a new golden age is upon
us. From securing our border, to unleashing American energy, to rooting
out waste, fraud, and abuse, @POTUS is delivering on the promises that
he ran on. A great night to be an American!”  
  
[**Rep. Anna Paulina
Luna**](https://x.com/RepLuna/status/1897155574518964494): “Tonight was
historic. President Trump said he was saved by God to Make America Great
Again- and THAT is our mandate.”  
  
[**Rep. Nancy
Mace**](https://x.com/NancyMace/status/1897119887698604308)**:** “Best
speech ever.”  
  
[**Rep. Jim
Jordan**](https://x.com/Jim_Jordan/status/1897134768774639847)**:**
“Incredible speech by President Trump! Confident. Empowering.
Leadership.”  
  
[**Rep. Blake
Moore**](https://x.com/RepBlakeMoore/status/1897147760639664174): “It
was an honor to attend President Trump’s Joint Session tonight. He and
his administration have swiftly responded to the call of Americans to
secure our border, unleash domestic energy production, address rampant
crime, tackle the difficult task to root out waste, fraud, and abuse in
our government, and more. There is much to do legislatively in the
coming months to ensure a strong economy and defense, and I look forward
to working with the Trump administration to accomplish this agenda.”  
  
[**Rep. Mike
Kennedy**](https://x.com/RepMikeKennedy/status/1897147706415648979):
“President Trump has emerged as the leader the United States needs right
now. I look forward to working alongside him to advance our nation’s
prosperity.”  
  
[**Rep. Victoria
Spartz**](https://x.com/RepSpartz/status/1897147120895033800): “Great
speech by President Trump! The State of the Union is strong!”  
  
[**Rep. Julia
Letlow**](https://x.com/RepJuliaLetlow/status/1897144098106261813):
“President Trump delivered a strong message emphasizing the promises he
is keeping to secure our border, increase energy production, fix the
Biden economy, and reassert American leadership.”  
  
[**Rep. Dan
Meuser**](https://x.com/RepMeuser/status/1897143662598926356): “Tonight,
President Trump reaffirmed his commitment to the Renewal of the American
Dream and made clear that Promises Made, Promises Kept is not just a
slogan—it’s a reality.”  
  
[**Rep. Ron
Estes**](https://x.com/RepRonEstes/status/1897143527697736030): “It was
great to welcome President Trump back to Congress and I look forward to
continuing to work with him to advance the America First policy agenda
that will restore our nation.”  
  
[**Rep. Mike
Flood**](https://x.com/USRepMikeFlood/status/1897142743761318021):
“President @realDonaldTrump’s speech to Congress was a celebration of
America and the renewal our country is experiencing.”  
  
[**Rep. Sam
Graves**](https://x.com/RepSamGraves/status/1897142403032867061): “The
Golden Age of America has ARRIVED.  Thank you, President Trump!”  
  
[**Rep. Beth Van
Duyne**](https://x.com/RepBethVanDuyne/status/1897142192776323424): “In
just six weeks, President Trump has made incredible progress for
America: the most secure borders in our lifetime without any new money
or legislation; through DOGE, he has exposed the massive fraud and money
laundering of billions of dollars in the federal government; brought in
more manufacturing investments (Apple, TSMC, Honda) than the entire
Biden presidency; and he is working with Congress to deliver long term
reforms to lower costs and expand opportunities for our hard working
families.”  
  
[**Rep. Brad
Finstad**](https://x.com/RepFinstad/status/1897140997542261149):
“Tonight, @POTUS made clear he is putting the American people first.
Since taking office, he has begun reining in an oversized, inefficient
government, brought safety and security back to our communities, and
restored common sense to the @WhiteHouse.”  
  
[**Rep. Rudy
Yakym**](https://x.com/RepRudyYakym/status/1897140845083844866):
“America is back! I look forward to working with President Trump to
continue delivering for Hoosiers and all Americans.”  
  
[**Rep. Ben
Cline**](https://x.com/RepBenCline/status/1897140564065444314):
“President Trump just delivered a bold, positive vision to secure our
border, revive our economy, and restore American strength. Leadership is
back, our enemies are on notice, and we’re making America great
again.”  
  
[**Rep. Doug
LaMalfa**](https://x.com/RepLaMalfa/status/1897140265720132037):
“Tonight, President Trump delivered a strong and optimistic message
about the renewal of the American Dream. He highlighted the progress
made in rebuilding our economy, securing our border, and restoring
America’s leadership on the world stage.”  
  
[**Rep. Dale
Strong**](https://x.com/RepDaleStrong/status/1897140142940233996):
“President Trump is delivering on his promises. He has secured our
borders and is working to revitalize our economy. The United States is
seen as a symbol of strength across the globe once again, and tonight’s
address proves that this administration is ready and willing to help
hardworking American families.”
