---
date: '2025-03-04'
published_time: 2025-03-04 08:08:59-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/articles/2025/03/first-lady-melania-trump-invites-everyday-americans-as-special-guests-to-joint-session-of-congress/
tags: articles
title: First Lady Melania Trump Invites Everyday Americans as Special Guests to Joint
  Session of Congress
---
 
Meet the special people who will join the First Lady and President Trump
at the U.S. Capitol when President Trump delivers his address to a joint
session of Congress.  
  
These men, women, and families come from all different walks of life
with incredible stories about the disaster wrought by the previous
administration, and the historic achievements President Trump has
already enacted to usher in the Golden Age of America.  
  
**Elliston Berry from Aledo, TX**: Elliston is a 15-year-old who was the
victim of computer-generated deepfakes created by a bully at her school
intended to humiliate and degrade Elliston and her friends.  
  
**The Comperatore Family from Sarver, PA:** Helen, Allyson, and Kaylee
are the widow and daughters of Corey Comperatore, a firefighter who was
killed by the gunman who also shot President Trump during a campaign
rally in Butler, Pennsylvania in July 2024.  
  
**Jeff Denard from Decatur, AL:** Jeff has spent nearly three decades
working at a steel plant owned by Nucor Steel. His good paying, middle
class job at the steel plant has allowed Jeff to serve as volunteer
firefighter, provide a loving home to dozens of foster children, and
organize his fellow steelworkers to respond to natural disasters,
including Hurricane Helene.  
  
**Stephanie Diller from Long Island, NY:** Stephanie is the widow of
Jonathan Diller, an NYPD officer who was murdered at a traffic stop in
Queens in March 2024 by a repeat criminal who was allowed to roam the
streets.  
  
**Haley Ferguson from Spring Hill, TN:** Haley is a former foster child,
a senior at Middle Tennessee State University majoring in Elementary
Education, and a Fostering the Future scholarship recipient, which was
launched by the First Lady’s organization, Be Best.  
  
**Marc and Malphine Fogel from Butler, PA:** Marc is an American history
teacher who was held hostage by the Russian government and wrongfully
sentenced to 14 years in a Russian prison. On February 12<sup>th</sup>,
President Trump fulfilled his promise to Malphine, Marc’s 95-year-old
mother, that he would bring Marc home.  
  
**January Littlejohn from Tallahassee, FL**: January is a mother and
parents’ rights advocate who sued the School Board of Leon County after
school officials at her daughter’s middle school socially transitioned
her daughter to a different sexual identity without January and her
husband’s knowledge or permission. The school drove a wedge between
January’s daughter and her parents, and deceived January about their
covert plan to transition her daughter.  
  
**Payton McNabb** **from Murphy, NC**: Payton is a former high school
athlete who had her dreams of competing in college sports crushed in a
September 2022 volleyball match when a biological man playing on the
opposing women’s team spiked the volleyball at Payton’s face, leaving
her with a traumatic brain injury. Payton joined with the Independent
Women’s Forum and has made it her mission to put an end to this brutal
unfairness.  
  
**Allyson and Lauren Phillips from Woodstock, GA:** Allyson and Lauren
are the mother and sister of Laken Riley, a young female nursing student
who was murdered by an illegal alien during a morning jog. The Biden
administration apprehended and released Laken’s murderer into the
country under its reckless open border policies. The very first bill
President Trump signed into law this year was named in Laken’s honor.  
  
**Alexis Nungaray from Houston, TX:** Alexis is an angel mom and the
mother of Jocelyn Nungaray, a 12-year-old girl who was murdered by two
illegal aliens during a walk to a corner store. The Biden administration
apprehended and released these vicious illegal aliens into the country
just weeks before Jocelyn’s murder.  
  
**Roberto Ortiz from Weslaco, TX:** Roberto has served with U.S. Border
Patrol for nearly a decade, and is a veteran of the U.S. Navy and
California State Guard. He has been shot at repeatedly by cartel members
while performing his duties near the Rio Grande River in Texas.  
  
