---
date: '2025-03-05'
modified_time: 2025-03-05 19:19:09-05:00
published_time: 2025-03-05 19:13:07-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/articles/2025/03/icymi-capitol-hill-highlights-key-pillars-of-president-trumps-joint-address-to-congress-in-op-ed-blitz/
tags: articles
title: "ICYMI: Capitol Hill Highlights Key Pillars of President Trump\u2019s Joint\
  \ Address to Congress in Op-Ed Blitz"
---
 
**America Is Back. President’s Joint Address Will Celebrate It**  
***U.S. Senator Tommy Tuberville (R-AL)***

*The last four years were a dumpster fire—a total disaster. “Sleepy Joe”
was worn slap out as soon as he got up in the morning. Thinking back on
it now, I really don’t know how our country survived. It’s a miracle
that we made it through those dark days. One thing is for sure:
President Trump’s address will be nothing like the clown show we endured
the last four years.*  
  
*But today, America is ready to usher in its golden age under President
Donald J. Trump. We’re only a month and a half in, and President Trump
is well on his way to renewing the American dream by reversing some of
the Democrats’ most destructive policies. Most importantly, President
Trump is keeping his promises to the 77 million Americans who voted for
him and his “America First” agenda. A recent poll showed 70 percent of
Americans believe President Trump is doing what he said he would do.*

[**Read full op-ed
here.**](https://www.newsweek.com/sen-tuberville-america-back-presidents-joint-address-will-celebrate-it-opinion-2039069)

**It’s Time To Take Trump’s Win On Women’s Sports To The Next Level**  
***U.S. Senator Roger Marshall (R-KS)***

*Democrat politicians and extreme woke ideologues have shrugged their
shoulders at the humiliation and disenfranchisement of millions of young
women and girls, even though 80% of Americans agree with President
Trump’s view that biological boys should not compete in girls’ sports.*

*I believe America’s women and girls deserve to know that someone is
fighting to protect the integrity and fairness of their competitive
sports and standing up for their right to safe and protected spaces like
bathrooms and locker rooms.*

*Thankfully, President Trump has taken up the mantle. Last month, he
signed an executive order protecting women’s and girls’ sports.*  
  
[**Read full op-ed
here.**](https://dailycaller.com/2025/03/05/senator-roger-marshall-transgender-womens-sports-men-protection-bill/)  
  
**Renewing the American Dream for the American Worker**  
***U.S. Senator*** ***Jim Banks (R-IN)***

*President Trump is renewing the hope of the American Dream from the
ashes of an historic low point. Our nation has emerged stronger with a
leader and an administration whose defining feature is their commitment
to working families.*

*Despite the downturn in prosperity and security America faced over the
last four years, the American Dream is not an outdated ambition.*

*Under President Trump, the possibility of achieving the American Dream
is back and within the grasp of every hard-working American.*  
  
*Already, President Trump has made good on a range of his promises,
reinvigorating American society across the board—an achievement that’s
unheard of for a president only 44 days into his term.*

[**Read full op-ed
here.**](https://www.theamericanconservative.com/renewing-the-american-dream-for-the-american-worker/)

**President Donald Trump is keeping his promise to Jewish students**  
***House Committee on Education and Workforce Chairman, U.S. Congressman
Tim Walberg (MI-05)***  
  
*Columbia \[University\] leaders have made public and private promises
to Jewish students, faculty, and Members of Congress that the university
would take the steps necessary to combat the rampant antisemitism on its
campus. Columbia has failed to uphold its commitments. But that is
coming to an end. Now, the Committee and Jewish students and faculty
have a strong ally in the White House. During the campaign Trump
promised his administration would combat antisemitism on American
campuses.*

*On day one, the Trump administration signed an executive order to
combat antisemitism. As part of the executive order, the Department of
Education has launched investigations into five universities for
tolerating “widespread antisemitic harassment” in violation of Title
VI.*

*The disease of antisemitism must be rooted out before it spreads to the
next generation. President Trump’s firm hand on this issue is the remedy
we need. We owe it to our youth to ensure they never face harassment,
threats, or violence because of their faith. This is a promise we should
always honor because it goes hand in hand with the promise of the
American Dream. Thankfully, President Trump is delivering on this
promise.*

[**Read full op-ed
here.**](https://washingtonreporter.news/p/op-ed-rep-tim-walberg-president-donald)

**America is back**  
***U.S. Congressman Richard Hudson (NC-09)  
***  
*Since his inauguration on Jan. 20, President Donald J. Trump has worked
tirelessly to restore border security, enforce our nation’s laws and
make clear that your constitutional rights shall not be infringed.
Following four years of chaos, Trump has sent a clear message: America
is back, and he’s just getting started.*

*After just one month back in office, Trump reestablished the successful
“Remain in Mexico” policy, restarted construction of the border wall,
ramped up deportation flights of criminal illegals, and ended the
dangerous Biden-era “catch-and-release” policy. These are just a few of
the actions Trump has taken to regain control of our border and crack
down on illegal immigration.*

*Trump’s efforts to secure the border have been nothing less than
historic, including sharply reducing illegal border crossings in just
his first 11 days back in office. This is the “Trump Effect” in action,
and it’s only just the beginning.*

[**Read full op-ed
here.**](https://nsjonline.com/article/2025/03/hudson-america-is-back/)

**Under President Trump, America’s Borders Are Secure Again**  
***U.S. Congressman*** ***Andy Biggs (AZ-05)***

*In a few weeks, Donald Trump has done what his prevaricating
predecessor declared to be impossible: he has brought the border under
control.*

*The policies of Joe Biden and Alejandro Mayorkas will forever be a
stain on America. The border is now almost completely controlled by
America, not Mexican drug and human trafficking cartels. That only has
happened because President Trump has the will and leadership skills to
allow our law enforcement to actually enforce the law. Trump said he
would do it. He is doing it.*

*America is safer now. Our borders are better now. Trump is delivering
on one of his signature campaign promises. While the Left in America is
face-melting, the majority of us recognize the success on the border of
President Trump.*

[**Read full op-ed
here.**](https://townhall.com/columnists/congressmanandybiggs/2025/03/05/under-president-trump-americas-borders-are-secure-again-n2653226)

**Trump Gives America A Much-Needed Shot Of Optimism**  
***U.S. Congressman Ralph Norman (SC-05)***

*We’re now 44 days into President Donald Trump’s second term, and a*
*renewed sense of optimism is sweeping across America, reminiscent of
the enduring promise of the American Dream. Central to this resurgence
is the administration’s policies aimed at reigniting prosperity for
small businesses, particularly evident in South Carolina’s 5th
Congressional District.*

*President Trump has been keen on drawing back the red tape in the
federal bureaucracy and reminding everyone in the swamp that our
government is supposed to serve the American worker, not the other way
around.*

*Last night the president made it clear: ‘We have accomplished more in
43 days than most administrations accomplished in 4 years…and we are
just getting started!’*

[**Read full op-ed
here.**](https://dailycallernewsfoundation.org/2025/03/05/rep-ralph-norman-trump-reminds-america-that-a-better-future-is-on-the-horizon/)

**Trump is Reviving the American Dream and Common Sense**  
***U.S. Congresswoman*** ***Diana Harshbarger (TN-01)***

*Tuesday night, President Donald Trump did what he does best — he told
it like it is. He reviewed his administration’s impressive
accomplishments, laid out his action plan to put our economy back on
track, urged Congress to deliver additional funding for the United
States Border Patrol, and shared his bold vision to bring peace and
stability around the world.*

*Only weeks ago, the president signed an executive order keeping men out
of women’s sports. I attended the signing, and it was a sight to see —
the president with dozens of female athletes and young women who would
now have a level playing field because of Republicans’ commitment to
this cause — Trump’s commitment to this cause.*

*The president reiterated this commitment Tuesday night when he spoke on
this issue, highlighting the story of Payton McNabb, saying, “When her
girls’ volleyball match was invaded by a male, he smashed the ball so
hard in Payton’s face, causing traumatic brain injury … ending her
athletic career.  
  
This story has become all too common. When Trump told Payton’s story,
not a single Democrat stood in solidarity.*  
  
[**Read full op-ed
here.**](https://www.washingtonexaminer.com/restoring-america/fairness-justice/3337939/trump-reviving-american-dream-common-sense/)

**Ending Biden’s disgraceful erosion of American deterrence **  
***U.S. Congressman*** ***August Pfluger (TX-01) and**U.S.
Congressman*** ***Zach Nunn (IA-03)***

*With Trump back in the White House, alongside Secretary of Defense Pete
Hegseth, Secretary of State Marco Rubio, and national security adviser
Mike Waltz, we’re setting a clear path forward for the U.S.: rebuild the
military, restore our warrior ethos, and reestablish American
deterrence.*

*Unlike his predecessors, who viewed the military through the lens of
social experimentation, Hegseth recognizes that the Department of
Defense has one primary mission: to produce the most lethal fighting
force on Earth. Under his leadership, we’re already seeing a renewed
focus on combat training, eliminating wasteful programs, and stripping
away ideological distractions.*

[**Read full op-ed
here.**](https://www.washingtonexaminer.com/opinion/3336368/biden-disgraceful-erosion-american-deterrence-trump-defense-spending/)

**Congress Must Act to Solidify Trump’s Border Wins**  
***U.S. Congressman Mark Harris (NC-08)***

*For the past four years, the most powerful nation in the history of the
world has been under attack. Deadly cartels, gangs, human smugglers, and
other criminal aliens flooded American communities and harmed our
citizens. This chaos was an orchestrated attack led by the last
administration not only on our nation, but on the American dream.*

*But on January 20th, a new era of leadership began. After being sworn
into office, President Trump wasted no time taking action to take back
our country and set our nation back on course.*

*Last night, President Trump said, “The media and our friends in the
Democrat Party kept saying we needed new legislation to secure the
border. But it turned out that all we really needed was a new
president.” And he is exactly right.*

*President Trump’s decisive action and bold leadership has drastically
changed the state of our border for the better.*

[**Read full op-ed
here.**](https://townhall.com/columnists/rep-mark-harris/2025/03/05/congress-must-act-to-solidify-trumps-border-wins-n2653232)
