---
date: '2025-03-28'
modified_time: 2025-03-31 12:03:19-04:00
published_time: 2025-03-28 06:35:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/articles/2025/03/ondcp-recognizes-law-enforcements-work-to-stop-drug-traffickers/
tags: articles
title: "ONDCP Recognizes Law Enforcement\u2019s Work to Stop Drug Traffickers"
---
 
## **National High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas Awards Ceremony Recognizes Excellence Across 14 Key Categories**

**Washington, D.C.**—Last night, the White House Office of National Drug
Control Policy (ONDCP) recognized individuals and initiatives of the
[High Intensity Drug Trafficking Areas (HIDTA)
Program](https://www.whitehouse.gov/ondcp/information-resources/) at the
2025 National HIDTA Awards Ceremony for their critical work to combat
the national security threat posed by drug traffickers, including those
who traffic deadly illicit fentanyl in the United States, killing tens
of thousands of Americans each year.  

The Trump Administration is [taking the fight to the cartels and drug
traffickers](https://www.whitehouse.gov/presidential-actions/2025/01/designating-cartels-and-other-organizations-as-foreign-terrorist-organizations-and-specially-designated-global-terrorists/)
in order to save American lives. The HIDTA Program plays a key role in
disrupting and dismantling drug trafficking organizations and provides
assistance to federal, state, local, Tribal, and territorial law
enforcement agencies operating in areas determined to be critical drug
trafficking regions across all 50 states. Last year, the 33 HIDTAs
seized 4.1 million pounds of fentanyl and other drugs and denied drug
traffickers $17.7 billion in illicit profits. For every dollar invested
in the HIDTA Program, the American people get $68.07 in benefits, making
HIDTA an effective and efficient use of taxpayers’ money, and an
important tool in the nation’s effort to stop drug traffickers and save
American lives.  

The following awards were presented March 27 to individuals and
initiatives of the HIDTA Program for their efforts to reduce the supply
and trafficking of dangerous drugs in communities across the country: 

**INVESTIGATIVE COLLABORATION**

*Chicago HIDTA, Chicago HIDTA Counternarcotics and Cryptocurrency Task
Force*

Created to identify, disrupt, and dismantle transnational criminal
organizations (TCOs), the Chicago HIDTA Counternarcotics and
Cryptocurrency Task Force (CNCTF) targeted one of the largest,
fastest-growing dark net markets in the world – Nemesis Market. This
marketplace facilitated drug trafficking, fraud, hacking, and other
illicit activities responsible for more than $20 million in illicit
transactions to more than 150,000 registered users around the world. Led
by DEA and comprising an array of federal and local partners, CNCTF
undertook Operation Keyboard Warrior, which received designation by the
Organized Crime Drug Enforcement Task Forces (OCDETF). In March 2024,
CNCTF, working with the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) and the
German Bundescriminalamt, disrupted Nemesis Market by executing
simultaneous, multinational search and seizure warrants on critical
technological infrastructure. The warrants resulted in nearly $1 million
in frozen and seized cryptocurrency-related assets, twelve computer
servers, various electronic devices, and terabytes of data containing
financial records and personal information of more than 1,000 vendors
trafficking in drugs and engaging in fraud, hacking, and forgeries on
the marketplace. CNCTF leveraged this information to effect arrests and
warrants in eight U.S. federal districts, and provided investigative
leads to foreign law enforcement counterparts in multiple countries
using international treaty-based disclosure agreements that were novel
to cyber cases.

**PROSECUTION**

*South Florida HIDTA, Assistant U.S. Attorneys Kevin Gerarde and Sean
McLaughlin*

With the support of the South Florida HIDTA and assistance from the Drug
Enforcement Administration (DEA), Assistant United States Attorneys
(AUSAs) Kevin Gerarde and Sean McLaughlin secured a jury verdict against
the Premier of the British Virgin Islands (BVI) for drug trafficking.
Andrew Fahie, who was elected as the Premier in 2019, was accused of
assisting the Sinaloa Cartel in transporting loads of cocaine weighing
three metric tons from the coast of Colombia through the BVI en route to
the United States for distribution. In exchange for his assistance,
Fahie allegedly received a 12 percent cut of the proceeds when the
cocaine was sold in the United States. After an extensive undercover
operation conducted with the United Kingdom’s National Crime Agency and
the Royal Virgin Islands Police Force, DEA arrested Fahie. In
prosecuting Fahie, AUSAs Gerarde and McLaughlin overcame a variety of
evidentiary challenges, including United Kingdom and BVI foreign law
determinations regarding the applicability of U.S. money laundering
statutes. On February 8, 2024, the jury returned a verdict finding Fahie
guilty on all counts, and he was subsequently sentenced to 135 months
imprisonment.

**PUBLIC HEALTH/PUBLIC SAFETY COLLABORATION**

*Texoma HIDTA, Caprock Drug Initiative*

The Texoma HIDTA’s Caprock Initiative launched a program at the behest
of local officials to address alarming increases in fentanyl overdoses
in and around Lubbock, Texas. Since its inception, the program has
reached nearly 26 thousand individuals from all walks of life.
Undertaken with substantial support from the United States Attorney’s
Office, the Texas Anti-Gang Center, and the Lubbock County District
Attorney’s Office, the program has become the most requested fentanyl
awareness presentation in the South Plains region. It has been presented
to numerous local schools, including to the Texas Tech football team.
The program provides candid, factual information from people in
recovery, overdose survivors, and families of overdose victims. It is
credited with raising public awareness and contributing to a reduction
in overdoses in the region.

**HIDTA SUPPORT**

*Atlanta Carolinas HIDTA, Lydia Sheffield*

Lydia Sheffield has served the Atlanta Carolinas HIDTA for two decades,
providing continuity with her outstanding support to three executive
directors. In addition to her myriad duties as the Executive Assistant,
Ms. Sheffield is the primary Performance Management Process (PMP)
Coordinator for the HIDTA, and has established herself as an expert user
of PMP. In that role, she has generously provided training to PMP users
from multiple other regional HIDTAs at the behest of the National HIDTA
Assistance Center and to National HIDTA Program staff. Ms. Sheffield has
drawn upon her own background and experience as a skilled trainer to
develop curriculum materials to support trainings to both peer PMP
coordinators and initiative commanders across the United States.

**INVESTIGATION INVOLVING INNOVATIVE APPROACHES**

*Gulf Coast HIDTA, Mobile Baldwin Major Investigations Team*

In 2023, the Mobile Baldwin Major Investigations Team (MBMIT) began
investigating a deactivated DEA confidential source who was coordinating
large shipments of methamphetamine, fentanyl, and cocaine from Texas and
Georgia into the Mobile, Alabama area. Because the former source was
familiar with law enforcement communication and investigative techniques
and was still being used by local law enforcement agencies, the source
was emboldened to conduct illicit drug-related transactions via an
end-to-end encrypted phone app. MBMIT agents successfully executed a
search warrant to clone the source’s phone and initiated real-time Title
III intercepts of the encrypted app. This was the first time an
end-to-end encryption application was successfully intercepted in the
New Orleans Division and only the third time this type of intercept had
been conducted worldwide within DEA. The success of this investigative
technique enabled 120 electronic and voice Title III intercepts
resulting in 24 state and federal arrests, the seizure of 19 kilograms
of cocaine and 20 kilograms of methamphetamine, and the seizure of over
$500,000 in cash, jewelry, and vehicles. Additionally, these intercepts
lead to the identification and follow-on investigation of regional drug
traffickers in the United States with links to multiple Mexican TCOs.

**INTELLIGENCE AND INFORMATION SHARING**

*Nevada HIDTA, Investigative Research Assistant Phillip Scichilone*

In early 2024, the Nevada Highway Patrol received a tip regarding a
suspicious trucking company suspected of transporting illicit drugs from
northern Nevada across the county, and subsequently passed the tip to
Investigative Research Assistant Phillip Scichilone. Mr. Scichilone
provided Northern Nevada Interdiction Task Force members with key
intelligence related to the travel patterns of the vehicle involved,
suspicious financial activity of the trucking company, and
identification of the suspected owner and driver of the vehicle. The
task force used this information to interdict the vehicle involved,
resulting in the seizure of approximately $1 million and the
identification of the driver and passenger, who were suspected of being
linked to a known terrorist organization. After conducting follow-up
analysis linking the suspects to out-of-state DEA and FBI
investigations, Mr. Scichilone connected representatives of both
agencies to deconflict and share information and then worked with both
agencies to pass on key intelligence information.

**INTERDICTION**

*New England HIDTA, Greater Boston HIDTA Task Force*

The Greater Boston HIDTA Task Force, co-led by the FBI and Homeland
Security Investigations (HSI), initiated an investigation targeting a
California-based drug trafficking organization (DTO) involved in
large-scale illicit drug smuggling, distribution, and transportation
from the Southwest Border to destinations throughout the United States
and Canada. The initial phase of this ongoing investigation resulted in
the disruption of a large-scale criminal enterprise with two arrests and
the interdiction of 32 kilograms of methamphetamine and 490 kilograms of
cocaine from a tractor trailer that traveled cross country to meet with
undercover law enforcement agents in Massachusetts. The Massachusetts
State Police have claimed this to be the largest seizure of narcotics
from a tractor trailer in New England history, and the ongoing
investigation has wide-ranging impact on DTO operations in the United
States, Mexico, and Canada.

**INVESTIGATION INVOLVING A VIOLENT ORGANIZATION**

*Texoma HIDTA, ATF Oklahoma City Violent Crime Initiative*

The ATF Oklahoma City Violent Crime Initiative led interagency Operation
Sonic Boom that used information from the National Integrated Ballistic
Information Network (NIBIN) to overlay maps of Oklahoma City with
shooting incidents to identify critical, high gun violence areas to
deploy additional resources. In a 60-day operation, ATF Confidential
Sources and Undercover Agents conducted 117 undercover firearm purchases
that led to the indictment of 64 defendants and the seizure of 110
firearms, 83 machinegun conversion devices (MCDs), 53 kilograms of
methamphetamine, 5 kilograms of cocaine, and more than 1.5 kilograms of
fentanyl tablets. Highlighting the critical links between the undercover
operations in this case and the ongoing violent crime investigations in
Oklahoma City, twelve of the firearms purchased by undercover agents had
confirmed links in NIBIN to open shooting and homicide cases by violent
criminal gangs in the greater Oklahoma City area. From a HIDTA
perspective, the case was also a statistical success, with investigators
identifying eight separate Drug Trafficking or Money Laundering
Organizations and disrupting six of them during the course of the
operation. 

**COMMUNITY IMPACT INVESTIGATION**

*Northwest HIDTA, DEA Bellingham Regional HIDTA Task Force*

Over the past year, the DEA Bellingham Regional HIDTA Task Force (BRHTF)
initiated an investigation that resulted in a substantial impact
concerning public safety and health on the greater Lummi Nation Tribal
Lands. Over a one-year period, BRHTF, along with partner agencies,
seized over 850,000 fentanyl pills, seven kilograms of fentanyl powder,
seven kilograms of cocaine, 29 illicit firearms, over $120,000 in U.S.
currency, and disrupted a centralized DTO responsible for trafficking
and distributing fentanyl and other drugs in the Lummi Nation within
Whatcom County, WA. This investigation resulted in a notable decrease in
both fentanyl availability and overdose deaths on Lummi Tribal Lands.

**OVERDOSE REDUCTION**

*South Texas HIDTA, Laredo DEA HIDTA Task Force*

In 2023, the DEA Laredo District Office created a HIDTA Overdose Task
Force initiative to address the dramatic rise in overdose deaths in
Laredo, Texas, and its surrounding communities. The City of Laredo
experienced 21 overdose deaths in 2021, rose to 41 overdose deaths in
2022, and was on pace to experience nearly 100 overdose deaths in 2023,
when the task force was launched. Formed with multiple local and federal
agencies and comprising six task force officers, the task force proved
to be effective, with Laredo reporting 73 deaths in 2023, well short of
the expected numbers. Throughout 2024, Laredo and its surrounding
communities experienced 40 overdose deaths, and preliminary data
indicate the city is on pace for a remarkable 45 percent decrease.

**INVESTIGATION**

*Arizona HIDTA, Metro Intelligence Support and Technical Investigative
Center (MISTIC)*

Throughout 2024, the Phoenix Police Department (PPD) Drug Enforcement
Bureau’s (DEB) Conspiracy Squad and the DEA Phoenix Field Division’s
Financial Investigations Group (FIG) conducted a long-term, complex
investigation that targeted a TCO responsible for the trafficking and
distribution of bulk quantities of illicit drugs, as well as for money
laundering. Investigators conducted 2,000 hours of surveillance,
utilized 225 court orders and search warrants, and initiated 35 wire
intercepts targeting TCO members. Through the course of this
investigation, detectives identified, disrupted, and dismantled the
international drug trafficking activities of both foreign and United
States-based sources of supply, load coordinators, couriers, stash house
operators, and distribution coordinators, while also dismantling
metropolitan Phoenix-based DTO operations.

**TASK FORCE OF THE YEAR**

*Appalachia HIDTA, Appalachia HIDTA Diversion Task Force*

In response to an influx of counterfeit pharmaceuticals flooding
southeastern Kentucky that were contributing to a rise in drug poisoning
deaths, investigators with the Appalachia HIDTA Diversion Drug Task
Force initiated an investigation into a dark net market distributor
operating under the name GreenBeansUSA. This investigation was conducted
jointly with the Appalachia HIDTA DEA London Task Force in coordination
with the FBI, Internal Revenue Service, and U.S. Postal Inspection
Service under the OCDETF Operation “Loyal Business.” Investigators
identified GreenBeansUSA as a global supplier responsible for the sale
and distribution of over 16 million counterfeit pharmaceutical pills,
and the receipt of over $11 million in drug proceeds in the form of
illicit cryptocurrency. In the course of the operation, investigators
issued more than 200 grand jury subpoenas, 47 pen registers, 8 ping
orders, Mutual Legal Assistance Treaty (MLAT) requests, IP analysis,
blockchain and cluster analysis, 2703(d) orders, undercover purchases,
undercover money laundering operations, pole cameras, and electronic
search warrants to multiple telecommunications and technological
entities. Their efforts resulted in federal indictments of six key
members of the organization, the seizure of 11 kilograms of controlled
pharmaceuticals (nitazene, benzodiazepine, and ketamine), six pill press
machines, and approximately $1.2 million in assets.

**HIDTA AWARD FOR EXCELLENCE**

*Ohio HIDTA***,** *Sergeant Breck Williamson, Ohio State Highway Patrol*

Sergeant Breck Williamson has distinguished himself as both a prolific
and successful interdictor of illicit drugs transiting the nation’s
highways, and as an expert instructor and mentor to other officers
conducting highway interdictions. Since October 2023, Sergeant
Williamson has personally seized over 405 pounds of methamphetamines, 11
pounds of fentanyl, 141 pounds of cocaine, 3,203 pounds of marijuana,
and $135,000 in U.S. currency. He also serves as an instructor for both
the El Paso Intelligence Center (EPIC) and the Drug Interdiction
Awareness Program (DIAP), sharing his expertise with hundreds of
students throughout the past year. In addition to his day-to-day
supervisory and highway interdiction duties, Sergeant Williamson is a
DEA task force officer and is regularly called upon by DEA offices
nationwide to advise on interdiction tactics and techniques.

**HIDTA OF THE YEAR**

*SOUTH FLORIDA HIDTA*

The South Florida HIDTA has demonstrated an exemplary capacity for
multidimensional vision and leadership. Through its Executive Director
and Executive Board, it has targeted emerging threats, such as synthetic
drugs, while remaining steadfastly committed to the interdiction of
metric tons of cocaine destined for the United States from South
America. It has inspired national efforts, like the launch of Crime Gun
Intelligence Centers in HIDTA regions across the United States, without
losing focus of the core HIDTA mission to disrupt and dismantle DTOs and
while maintaining deep and sustaining partnerships at the local level.
It has launched enterprising collaborations with law enforcement
partners, such as partnering with the Federal Aviation Administration to
access radar interdiction operability and records of straw registration
of aircraft, while embracing public health initiatives focused on
overdose reduction and drug use prevention.

Among its many accomplishments, in 2023 South Florida HIDTA initiatives
dismantled or disrupted 54 DTOs, of which 19 were international in scope
and nearly 20 percent were OCDETF-designated or linked to consolidated
or regional priority organization targets. Task forces seized illicit
drugs with a total estimated value of $748 million, including 23 metric
tons of cocaine, 248 kilograms of methamphetamine, and 224 kilograms of
fentanyl. South Florida HIDTA initiatives also seized more than $105
million in cash and other assets, delivering a return on investment of
$56.22 for every dollar financed by the National HIDTA Program. Finally,
in pursuit of one of its most vital functions – ensuring officer safety
– the South Florida HIDTA provided deconfliction services to all its
partners, preventing more than 400 “blue on blue” incidents.
