---
date: '2023-07-11'
published_time: 2023-07-11 12:52:59-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/07/11/nominations-sent-to-the-senate-113/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "Nominations Sent to the\_Senate"
---
 
Laura Dove, of Virginia, to be a Member of the Board of Trustees of the
James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation for a term expiring
November 17, 2029.  (Reappointment)

     Laura Dove, of Virginia, to be a Member of the Board of Trustees of
the James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation for a term expiring
November 17, 2023, vice Pauline R. Maier, term expired.

     Andrew N. Ferguson, of Virginia, to be a Federal Trade Commissioner
for the term of seven years from September 26, 2023.   (Reappointment)

     Andrew N. Ferguson, of Virginia, to be a Federal Trade Commissioner
for the unexpired term of seven years from September 26, 2016, vice Noah
Joshua Phillips.

     Jamie Fly, of Virginia, to be a Member of the International
Broadcasting Advisory Board for a term expiring January 1, 2027.  (New
Position)

     Melissa Holyoak, of Utah, to be a Federal Trade Commissioner for
the unexpired term of seven years from September 26, 2018, vice
Christine S. Wilson, resigned.

     Henry J. Kerner, of Virginia, to be a Member of the Merit Systems
Protection Board for the term of seven years expiring March 1, 2030,
vice Tristan Lynn Leavitt, term expired.

     Amanda Wood Laihow, of Maine, to be a Member of the Occupational
Safety and Health Review Commission for a term expiring April 27, 2029. 
(Reappointment)

     Bradford Pentony Wilson, of New Jersey, to be a Member of the Board
of Trustees of the James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation for a
term expiring September 27, 2026, vice Catherine Allgor, term expired.

     Joseph Albert Laroski, Jr., of Maryland, to be a Judge of the
United States Court of International Trade, vice Timothy C. Stanceu,
retired.

     Jennifer L. Hall, of Pennsylvania, to be United States District
Judge for the District of Delaware, vice Richard G. Andrews, retiring.

     Katherine E. Oler, of the District of Columbia, to be an Associate
Judge of the Superior Court of the District of Columbia for the term of
fifteen years, vice John M. Campbell, retired.

     Judith E. Pipe, of the District of Columbia, to be an Associate
Judge of the Superior Court of the District of Columbia for the term of
fifteen years, vice Michael L. Rankin, retired.

     Brandy R. McMillion, of Michigan, to be United States District
Judge for the Eastern District of Michigan, vice Gershwin A. Drain,
retired.

     Charles J. Willoughby, Jr., of the District of Columbia, to be an
Associate Judge of the Superior Court of the District of Columbia for
the term of fifteen years, William M. Jackson, retired.

     Lisa W. Wang, of the District of Columbia, to be a Judge of the
United States Court of International Trade, vice Leo Maury Gordon,
retired.

     April M. Perry, of Illinois, to be United States Attorney for the
Northern District of Illinois for the term of four years, vice John R.
Lausch, Jr., resigned.

     Karoline Mehalchick, of Pennsylvania, to be United States District
Judge for the Middle District of Pennsylvania, vice John E. Jones, III,
retired.

     Margaret M. Garnett, of New York, to be United States District
Judge for the Southern District of New York, vice Vincent L. Briccetti,
retired.

\# \# \#
