---
date: '2023-07-14'
published_time: 2023-07-14 11:47:41-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/07/14/a-proclamation-on-national-atomic-veterans-day-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Atomic Veterans Day,\_2023"
---
 
     The dawn of the nuclear age is familiar to many — the development
of new science, but also new risks and destruction, as witnessed by the
devastation at Hiroshima and Nagasaki.  But the lesser-known story is
that of the members of our Armed Forces who participated in nuclear
tests from 1945 to 1962 or were exposed to radioactive material at home
and abroad — our courageous Atomic Veterans. 

     Today, we remember their service and sacrifice and recommit to
ensuring they receive the benefits and care they deserve.  Atomic
Veterans bore unusual risk but were sworn to secrecy throughout their
service and beyond, unable to discuss the nature of their experiences
and contributions.  As a result, many were unable to get care for the
serious health conditions they developed.  Cancers caused by radiation
exposure often went untreated as claims for injuries and diseases
associated with Atomic Veterans’ service were denied.  And although the
1996 repeal of the Nuclear Radiation and Secrecy Agreements Act allowed
Atomic Veterans to finally tell their story and receive benefits,
thousands had already passed away without their families knowing the
full extent of their service.  To this day, many remain unaware of the
benefits now available to them through the Department of Veterans
Affairs.

     Our Nation has many obligations, but we have only one truly sacred
obligation:  to prepare those we send into harm’s way and care for them
and their families while they are deployed and when they return home —
including our Atomic Veterans.  My Administration is making good on this
promise.  I have signed laws that support veterans who developed cancer
and other medical conditions stemming from our World War II nuclear
program.  That includes the PACT Act — one of the most significant laws
in our Nation’s history to help veterans who were exposed to toxins,
radiation, and chemicals during their service access the care and
benefits they and their families deserve.

     This month, let us join together to remember the service of our
Atomic Veterans.  Let us recommit to honoring the sacrifices they made
for our Nation’s safety and security.  And let us continue to build a
future of peace and a world free from the threat of nuclear weapons.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim July
16, 2023, as National Atomic Veterans Day.  I call upon all Americans to
observe this day with appropriate ceremonies and activities that honor
our Nation’s Atomic Veterans, whose brave service and sacrifice played
an important role in the defense of our Nation.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this fourteenth day
of July, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-three, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-eighth.  

                         JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
