---
date: '2023-07-12'
published_time: 2023-07-12 16:49:07-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/07/12/message-to-the-congress-on-the-continuation-of-the-national-emergency-with-respect-to-hostage-taking-and-the-wrongful-detention-of-united-states-nationals-abroad/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "Message to the Congress on the Continuation of the National Emergency with\
  \ Respect to Hostage-Taking and the Wrongful Detention of United\_States Nationals\_\
  Abroad"
---
 
Section 202(d) of the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1622(d))
provides for the automatic termination of a national emergency unless,
within 90 days prior to the anniversary date of its declaration, the
President publishes in the *Federal Register* and transmits to the
Congress a notice stating that the emergency is to continue in effect
beyond the anniversary date.  In accordance with this provision, I have
sent to the *Federal Register* for publication the enclosed notice
stating that the national emergency with respect to hostage-taking and
the wrongful detention of United States nationals abroad declared in
Executive Order 14078 of July 19, 2022, is to continue in effect beyond
July 19, 2023.  
  
Hostage-taking and the wrongful detention of United States nationals are
heinous acts that undermine the rule of law.  Terrorist organizations,
criminal groups, and other malicious actors who take hostages for
financial, political, or other gain — as well as foreign states that
engage in the practice of wrongful detention, including for political
leverage or to seek concessions from the United States — threaten the
integrity of the international political system and the safety of United
States nationals and other persons abroad.  Hostage-taking and the
wrongful detention of United States nationals abroad continue to pose an
unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security, foreign
policy, and economy of the United States.  Therefore, I have determined
that it is necessary to continue the national emergency declared in
Executive Order 14078 with respect to hostage-taking and the wrongful
detention of United States nationals abroad. 

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.

THE WHITE HOUSE,  
 July 12, 2023.
