---
date: '2023-07-25'
published_time: 2023-07-25 13:49:51-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/07/25/a-proclamation-on-establishment-of-the-emmett-till-and-mamie-till-mobley-national-monument/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Establishment of the Emmett Till and Mamie Till-Mobley National\_\
  Monument"
---
 
     The brutal lynching of Emmett Till in Mississippi in 1955 and the
subsequent courage of his mother, Mamie Till-Mobley, to ensure his death
would not be in vain helped bring broad national attention to the
injustices and inequality that Black people experienced during the Jim
Crow era across the United States and, in particular, the South.  The
story — one that is shaped by the fight for civil rights and the
historic movement called the Great Migration, during which millions of
Black people moved out of the South — is rooted in the specific places
where Emmett Till lived and traveled in his too-short life:  Chicago,
where Mamie Till-Mobley came with her family for better opportunities
and then mourned her son at the Roberts Temple Church of God in Christ;
and the Mississippi Delta, where Emmett Till was murdered in an act of
racial violence while visiting relatives, where the recovery of his body
is memorialized at Graball Landing, and where his assailants were
wrongfully acquitted at the Tallahatchie County Second District
Courthouse.  These places contain historic objects that illuminate the
complicated fabric of our Nation and the injustice and inequality that
Black people continue to experience today.  They are places where we can
learn about and reflect on the specific, painful events that ended
Emmett Till’s life and the larger history of Black oppression,
resistance, and resilience, which ultimately culminated in a movement
that bent our Nation’s laws toward justice.

     The Roberts Temple Church of God in Christ, the Tallahatchie County
Second District Courthouse, Graball Landing, and the objects located at
those sites have historic importance that arises from the roles that
Emmett Till and Mamie Till-Mobley played in the birth and early
evolution of the Civil Rights Movement.  Mamie Till-Mobley was born
Mamie Elizabeth Carthan near Webb, Mississippi, in 1921.  When Mamie was
2 years old, her family moved to the suburb of Summit on the southwest
side of Chicago, Illinois, where her father found work at the Argo Corn
Products Refining Company.

     The Carthan family was one of many Black families who left rural
southern States and moved to urban industrial centers in northern,
midwestern, and western States to escape racial violence and to pursue
greater economic and educational opportunities.  

     On July 25, 1941, Mamie gave birth to Emmett Louis Till at Cook
County Hospital in Chicago.  She raised Emmett among his grandparents
and extended family who lived nearby.

     In August 1955, when Emmett was 14 years old and on summer break
from school, he convinced his mother to let him visit their extended
family who lived in the Mississippi Delta.  Along with his granduncle
Moses Wright and 16-year-old cousin Wheeler Parker, Jr., Emmett boarded
Illinois Central’s *City of New Orleans* train for the nearly 12-hour
ride to Mississippi.  Moses Wright’s oldest son, 16-year-old Maurice,
met the trio at the station in Grenada, Mississippi, and they made the
last 30 miles of the journey in the family’s pickup truck to stay at the
Wrights’ home outside rural Money, Mississippi.

     On the evening of Wednesday, August 24, 1955, Emmett joined his
cousins — Maurice Wright, Wheeler Parker, Jr., and 12-year-old Simeon
Wright — and several of their friends to buy candy at Bryant’s Grocery
and Meat Market country store in Money.

     Carolyn Bryant, the white store clerk, claimed Emmett made
inappropriate advances toward her — a claim disputed by Emmett’s cousins
and friends.  According to Till’s cousin Wheeler Parker, Jr.,
14-year-old Emmett whistled at Bryant outside the store, which violated
the unwritten laws of segregated society in the Mississippi Delta.  The
group quickly loaded back into their vehicle and fled.

     At about 2:00 a.m. on Sunday, August 28, 1955, the Wright family
was awakened by two armed white men, identified by Moses Wright as store
owner Roy Bryant, husband of Carolyn Bryant, and his half-brother, J.W.
Milam.  Moses Wright testified that the two men were armed with a gun
and a flashlight and were looking for the “boy that done the talking
down at Money.”  The two white men directed Emmett Till to get dressed,
abducted him from the Wright home, and drove away with him.  Moses
Wright notified the county sheriff.  Within 48 hours after the
abduction, J.W. Milam and Roy Bryant were arrested on kidnapping
charges, and the news of Emmett Till’s abduction began to hit newspapers
locally and in Chicago.

     On Wednesday, August 31, 1955, Emmett Till’s body was pulled from
the Tallahatchie River near Graball Landing in Tallahatchie County.
 Moses Wright confirmed that the badly beaten body was that of his
grandnephew, Emmett Till.

     Emmett Till suffered a brutal murder.  His body was found with
barbed wire tied around his neck and attached to a 70-pound cotton gin
fan.  A 2005 autopsy, prompted by the reopening of the investigation by
the Federal Bureau of Investigation, revealed fractures of both of
Emmett’s wrists, a fracture of his left femur, multiple fractures of his
skull, and a gunshot wound to the head.

     Almost immediately after Emmett’s badly beaten body was recovered,
the county sheriff directed that he be buried quickly.  His body was
prepared at the Tutwiler Funeral Home and a grave was being dug at the
local Church of God in Christ cemetery in Money when Mamie Till-Mobley
contacted her Mississippi family, interrupting the burial process and
insisting that her son’s body be returned to Chicago.

     Mamie Till-Mobley met her son’s body at the train station in
Chicago and confirmed his identity.  Defying orders from the Tutwiler
Funeral Home to keep the casket sealed, Mamie Till-Mobley decided to
hold an open-casket funeral.  When the funeral director asked if he
should retouch Emmett’s distorted face to make him more presentable,
Mamie Till-Mobley responded, “Let the world see what I’ve seen.”

     The funeral service for Emmett Till began Saturday, September 3,
1955, at the Roberts Temple Church of God in Christ in Bronzeville, a
historically Black neighborhood on Chicago’s South Side.  The church was
the first that Mamie Till-Mobley’s mother attended when she moved to
Chicago, and it formed a central part of the family’s life and
community.  Roberts Temple played a prominent role in Chicago’s Black
community:  it was considered the “Mother Church” in Northern Illinois
for the influential Church of God in Christ denomination and served as a
hub for social, spiritual, and economic activities.  The church grew
considerably during the Great Migration.

     When Mamie Till-Mobley arrived at the funeral service, the church’s
1,800 seats were overflowing, and an estimated 5,000 additional mourners
gathered along the adjacent sidewalks, streets, church property, and
surrounding blocks.  Due to the overwhelming turnout, Mamie delayed
Emmett’s burial to allow more time for mourners to pay their respects.
 Press estimates of the crowd ranged from 10,000 on the first day to as
many as 125,000 people over the 3 days before Emmett’s burial on
Tuesday, September 6, 1955.  Today, the Roberts Temple Church of God in
Christ still stands as a prominent feature on State Street, as it did in
1955.

     The trial for the murder of Emmett Till began just weeks after his
lynching, on September 19, 1955, at the Tallahatchie County Second
District Courthouse in Sumner, Mississippi.  Between 50 and 70 reporters
attended, representing southern newspapers such as the Greenville *Delta
Democrat-Times* and the Charleston *Mississippi Sun*, as well as
national media including the *New York Times*, *Newsweek*, and
the *Nation*.  The segregated courtroom, which has been painstakingly
restored to its appearance during the trial, required Black reporters to
sit behind a railing and at a table separate from white reporters.
 Photos from the period show a packed courtroom with a crowd gathering
outside open windows to hear the trial.  The *New York Times* described
“an atmosphere of controlled hostility” in the stifling heat of the
250-person courtroom.  One night during the trial, a cross was burned in
front of the hotel where the jurors were sequestered.

     Throughout the trial, the town of Mound Bayou, located more than 30
miles and 2 counties away from the courthouse, served as a safe haven
for Mamie Till-Mobley, Black reporters, and members of the NAACP who
arrived in Mississippi.  The State of Mississippi was segregated,
including Mound Bayou, which was an all-Black town founded in 1887 by
and for Black people.  Hosting Mamie Till-Mobley and the NAACP at his
home in Mound Bayou, Dr. T.R.M. Howard provided tight security with a
checkpoint and round-the-clock guards to protect the trial attendees.
 On September 23, 1955, after a 5-day trial, an all-white jury acquitted
Roy Bryant and J.W. Milam of Emmett Till’s murder after just over an
hour of deliberation. 

     In January 1956, following their acquittal, Bryant and Milam gave a
paid interview to *Look* magazine in which they confessed to the murder,
further underscoring the miscarriage of justice.  Eyewitness accounts
that additional people were involved in the kidnapping, torture, and
murder of Emmett Till were omitted from the magazine article and never
pursued by officials.   

     The Graball Landing river site, located just outside Glendora,
Mississippi, is the area along the Tallahatchie River where many believe
Emmett Till’s body was recovered, although changes in river flows and
erosion since 1955 make it difficult to determine the site with
precision.  Located where the Black Bayou meets the Tallahatchie River,
Graball Landing is a natural break in the vegetation along the riverbank
that served as a steamboat landing until 1894 and thereafter as a local
fishing site.  In the years that followed Emmett Till’s murder, Graball
Landing became the site of a community-led memorial.  In 2008, the
Emmett Till Memorial Commission erected a memorial sign at Graball
Landing.  Within 6 months, the sign was torn down by vandals and thrown
into the river.  When a replacement memorial sign was erected, it was
not long until the sign was riddled with bullet holes.  A third memorial
sign was dedicated in 2018, and about a month later, it too was scarred
by gunfire.  The current memorial sign at Graball Landing was dedicated
on October 19, 2019 — it is over an inch thick, weighs more than 500
pounds, and is bulletproof.

     Emmett Till’s torture and killing was one of at least three other
racially motivated murders in Mississippi during the summer of 1955.
 Emmett was also among the thousands of Black people killed by lynching
in the United States over the 100 years following the Civil War.  If
Emmett Till had been buried in Mississippi, his story might have been
entombed along with him.  His mother’s acts of resistance and bravery in
demanding her son’s body be returned to Chicago and in holding an
open-casket service helped ensure Emmett’s death was not a statistic,
but a spark to galvanize the Civil Rights Movement in America.  Months
afterward, in December 1955, Rosa Parks refused to surrender her bus
seat to a white man.  She later explained, “I thought of Emmett Till and
I couldn’t go back.”

     The Reverend Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., too, would cite Emmett
Till in his sermons.  He later recollected:  “Emmett Till, a mere boy,
unqualified to vote, but seemingly used as a victim to terrorize Negro
citizens and keep them from the polls.  While the blame for the grisly
mutilation of Till has been placed upon two cruel men, the ultimate
responsibility for this and other tragic events must rest with the
American people themselves.  It rests with all of us, black and white,
who call ourselves civilized men.  For democracy demands responsibility,
courage, and the will-to-freedom from all men.”

     For the remainder of her life, well into her 80s, Mamie Till-Mobley
furthered the memory of her son Emmett through her work as an educator
and activist, carrying a message of healing, reconciliation,
forgiveness, and hope.

     Conserving the Roberts Temple Church of God in Christ, the
Tallahatchie County Second District Courthouse, and Graball Landing will
ensure that the historical value of these sites will remain for the
benefit of all Americans, providing opportunities to learn about Emmett
Till’s life and death and the historical and cultural context interwoven
with his story.  Conserving these places and the resources they contain
will also honor the bravery of Mamie Till-Mobley and other Americans
like her who, in the face of unimaginable injustice, have helped lead us
toward a more equal and perfect Union. 

     WHEREAS, section 320301 of title 54, United States Code (the
“Antiquities Act”), authorizes the President, in his discretion, to
declare by public proclamation historic landmarks, historic and
prehistoric structures, and other objects of historic or scientific
interest that are situated upon the lands owned or controlled by the
Federal Government to be national monuments, and to reserve as a part
thereof parcels of land, the limits of which shall be confined to the
smallest area compatible with the proper care and management of the
objects to be protected; and

     WHEREAS, Graball Landing has long been recognized as the location
where Emmett Till’s body was recovered from the Tallahatchie River and,
more recently, as a memorial site to inform and educate the public about
Emmett Till’s murder; and

     WHEREAS, the memorial signs placed at Graball Landing to inform the
public about Emmett Till’s murder have their own important role in civil
rights history, including through their repeated defacement and
replacement, and thus are themselves significant cultural and historic
objects; and

     WHEREAS, the Roberts Temple Church of God in Christ marks the
location of a historic event when tens of thousands of people came
together, overflowing from the church into the surrounding sidewalks and
streets, to mourn the murder of a 14-year-old boy and honor the strength
of his mother and, in recognition of this, the church was designated as
a Chicago Landmark by the City of Chicago Commission on Chicago
Landmarks on March 29, 2006; and

     WHEREAS, the Tallahatchie County Second District Courthouse is
nationally significant based on its association with the history of Jim
Crow, the dawn of the Civil Rights Movement, and the site of the Emmett
Till murder trial in September 1955; and was designated as a Mississippi
Landmark on February 28, 1990, and added to the National Register of
Historic Places on March 6, 2007; and

     WHEREAS, James Walker Sturdivant has donated to the Federal
Government for the purpose of establishing a unit of the National Park
System fee interest in approximately 4.31 acres of land in the area
known as Graball Landing adjacent to the Tallahatchie River; and

     WHEREAS, the Roberts Temple Church of God in Christ, with the
support of the National Trust for Historic Preservation, has donated to
the Federal Government for the purpose of establishing a unit of the
National Park System a Conservation Easement consisting of approximately
0.27 acres over 2 parcels, which includes the historic Roberts Temple
Church of God in Christ (Church Building); a Preservation and Use
Easement consisting of a lot of approximately 0.09 acres over the
property immediately adjacent to the Church Building; and fee interest
in approximately 0.55 acres of land currently used as the church parking
lot — all of which encompass land where crowds gathered in September
1955; and

     WHEREAS, Tallahatchie County has donated to the National Park
Foundation fee interest in the Tallahatchie County Second District
Courthouse and the associated Emmett Till Interpretive Center building
across the street, totaling approximately 0.48 acres; and

     WHEREAS, the National Park Foundation has relinquished and conveyed
all of these lands and interests in lands associated with the
Tallahatchie County Second District Courthouse and the Emmett Till
Interpretive Center building to the Federal Government for the purpose
of establishing a unit of the National Park System; and

     WHEREAS, the designation of a national monument to be administered
by the National Park Service would recognize the historic significance
of the Roberts Temple Church of God in Christ, the Tallahatchie County
Second District Courthouse, and Graball Landing, particularly the events
that transpired at these locations related to the life and death of
Emmett Till, his mother Mamie Till-Mobley, and the Civil Rights
Movement, and would provide a national platform for preserving and
interpreting this important history; and

     WHEREAS, it is in the public interest to preserve and protect the
objects of historic interest associated with the story of Emmett Till
and Mamie Till-Mobley and the birth of the American Civil Rights
Movement in Illinois and Mississippi;

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the
United States of America, by the authority vested in me by section
320301 of title 54, United States Code, hereby proclaim, set apart, and
reserve as the Emmett Till and Mamie Till-Mobley National Monument
(monument), the objects identified above and all lands and interests in
lands owned or controlled by the Government of the United States within
the boundaries described on the accompanying maps entitled “Emmett Till
and Mamie Till-Mobley National Monument Boundary,” which are attached to
and form a part of this proclamation, for the purpose of protecting
those objects.  The reserved Federal lands and interests in lands within
the monument’s boundaries encompass approximately 5.7 acres, which is
the smallest area compatible with the proper care and management of the
objects to be protected.

     All Federal lands and interests in lands within the boundaries of
this monument are hereby appropriated and withdrawn from all forms of
entry, location, selection, sale, leasing, or other disposition under
the public land laws, including withdrawal from location, entry, and
patent under the mining laws, and from disposition under all laws
relating to mineral and geothermal leasing.  The establishment of this
monument is subject to valid existing rights, including the July 21,
2023, deed for parcel 20-03-106-036 in Chicago with reserved rights for
parking.  Lands and interests in lands within the monument’s boundaries
not owned or controlled by the United States shall be reserved as part
of the monument, and objects identified above that are situated upon
those lands and interests in lands shall be part of the monument, upon
acquisition of ownership or control by the United States.

     The Secretary of the Interior shall manage the monument through the
National Park Service, pursuant to applicable legal authorities and
consistent with the purposes and provisions of this proclamation.  For
the purpose of preserving, interpreting, and enhancing the public
understanding and appreciation of the monument, the Secretary of the
Interior, through the National Park Service, shall prepare a management
plan for the monument.  The management plan shall ensure that the
monument fulfills the following purposes for the benefit of present and
future generations:  (1) to preserve the historic and cultural resources
within the boundaries of the monument; (2) to interpret the story of
Emmett Till and Mamie Till-Mobley and its significance to the fight
against racism and the dismantling of Jim Crow; and (3) to commemorate
the birth of the Civil Rights Movement.  The National Park Service shall
develop the management plan in consultation with local communities,
organizations, and the general public in the regions of the monument to
set forth the desired relationship of the monument to and support for
other sites evaluated in the Mississippi Civil Rights Special Resources
Study such as the Glendora Cotton Gin (currently known as the Emmett
Till Historic Intrepid Center), Mound Bayou, and the Tutwiler Funeral
Home, as well as sites in Chicago such as the Emmett Till Boyhood Home.
 

     The National Park Service shall consult with appropriate Federal,
State, and local agencies and nongovernmental organizations in planning
for interpretation and visitor access and services at the monument.

     The National Park Service is directed, as appropriate, to use
applicable authorities to seek to enter into agreements with other
entities to address common interests and promote management
efficiencies, including the provision of visitor services,
interpretation and education, establishment and care of museum
collections, and preservation of historic objects.  These entities may
include, in Illinois, the Roberts Temple Church of God in Christ, the
Bronzeville-Black Metropolis National Heritage Area, and the Emmett Till
and Mamie Till-Mobley Institute; and, in Mississippi, the Emmett Till
Historic Intrepid Center, the County of Tallahatchie, the Mississippi
Delta National Heritage Area, and the Emmett Till Interpretive Center.

     Nothing in this proclamation shall be deemed to revoke any existing
withdrawal, reservation, or appropriation; however, the monument shall
be the dominant reservation.

     Warning is hereby given to all unauthorized persons not to
appropriate, injure, destroy, or remove any feature of this monument and
not to locate or settle upon any of the lands thereof.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-fifth
day of July, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-three, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-eighth.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
