---
date: '2023-07-14'
modified_time: 2023-07-14 11:46:33-04:00
published_time: 2023-07-14 11:46:18-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/07/14/a-proclamation-on-captive-nations-week-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Captive Nations Week,\_2023"
---
 
    During Captive Nations Week, we reaffirm our support for brave
people around the world who are standing up to oppressive rule and
striving for greater freedom, greater dignity, and greater democracy.

     When President Dwight D. Eisenhower proclaimed the first Captive
Nations Week in 1959, he appealed directly to the hundreds of millions
living behind the Iron Curtain — firm in the knowledge that
authoritarianism could never erase a people’s love of liberty.  Over the
coming decades, courageous women and men joined together to demand their
fundamental freedoms and human rights.  But the battle against
oppression did not end with the Cold War.  The forces of autocracy
continue to reassert themselves.  In Iran, Belarus, Syria, Cuba,
Venezuela, Nicaragua, the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, the
People’s Republic of China, and elsewhere, we are seeing an all too
familiar contempt for the rule of law, for democracy, for human rights,
and even for the truth itself.

     This is all too evident in Russia’s brutal aggression against its
neighbor Ukraine and in the Ukrainian people’s courageous defense of
their sovereignty, freedom, land, and lives.  And around the world,
countless more are working every day in their own countries to advance
the essential democratic principles that unite free people everywhere:
 the rule of law; free and fair elections; the freedom of the press; the
freedom to speak, write, and assemble; and the freedom to worship as one
chooses.  These advocates and champions of democracy are living proof
that the darkness that drives autocracy can never extinguish the flame
of liberty that lights the souls of free people everywhere.

     The United States is proud to stand with all those who fight for
freedom.  We will continue supporting democratic reformers and human
rights defenders around the world, who are working for a future where
women and girls can exercise their rights equally and contribute fully
to society, where members of religious and ethnic minorities can live
their lives without harassment, where LGBTQI+ people can live and love
freely, and where citizens and the press can question and criticize
their leaders without fear of reprisal. 

     Two years ago, at the first Summit for Democracy, I was proud to
launch the Presidential Initiative for Democratic Renewal, with more
than $400 million in initiatives to defend and grow democratic
resilience with partners around the globe.  This year, at our second
Summit, I committed another $690 million to keep growing our work to
advance democracy internationally.  Democracy — transparent and
accountable government of, for, and by the people — is our most powerful
tool to realize lasting peace, expand prosperity, and protect human
dignity. 

     The United States will continue to lead not just by the example of
our power but the power of our example.  That is why, since my first day
in office, my Administration has also taken decisive action to restore
and strengthen democracy here at home.  I issued an Executive Order
promoting access to voter registration and election information, and I
signed into law the Electoral Count Reform Act, which helps preserve the
will of the people against future attempts to overturn our elections.
 The Department of Justice has strengthened its ability to fight
unlawful voter suppression.  And I continue to call on the Congress to
pass the Freedom to Vote Act and the John Lewis Voting Rights
Advancement Act. 

     During this Captive Nations Week, as we honor the bravery of
democratic reformers and human rights defenders everywhere, I am
reminded of the words of the philosopher Kierkegaard:  “Faith sees best
in the dark.”  To those living in darkness today:  We honor your
resilience.  To those who are committed to the cause of liberty:  We are
your partner for a better future. 

     The Congress, by joint resolution approved July 17, 1959 (73 Stat.
212), has authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation
designating the third week of July of each year as “Captive Nations
Week.”

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, do hereby proclaim July 16 through July 22, 2023, as
Captive Nations Week.  I call upon all Americans to reaffirm our
commitment to championing those around the world who are working, often
at great personal risk, to secure liberty and justice for all.  
  
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this fourteenth day
of July, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-three, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-eighth.  
  

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
