---
date: '2023-07-28'
published_time: 2023-07-28 11:15:46-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/07/28/executive-order-on-2023-amendments-to-the-manual-for-courts-martial-united-states/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "Executive Order on 2023 Amendments to the Manual for Courts-Martial, United\_\
  States"
---
 
     By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and
the laws of the United States of America, including chapter 47 of title
10, United States Code (Uniform Code of Military Justice, 10 U.S.C.
801-946a), and in order to prescribe additions and amendments to the
Manual for Courts-Martial, United States, prescribed by Executive Order
12473 of April 13, 1984, as amended, it is hereby ordered as follows:  
  
     Section 1.  Part II, Part III, Part IV, and Part V of the Manual
for Courts-Martial, United States, are amended as described in Annex 1,
which is attached to and made a part of this order.  The amendments in
Annex 1 shall take effect on the date of this order, subject to the
following:  
  
     (a)  Nothing in Annex 1 shall be construed to make punishable any
act committed or omitted prior to the date of this order that was not
punishable when committed or omitted.  
  
     (b)  Nothing in Annex 1 shall be construed to invalidate any
nonjudicial punishment proceeding, restraint, preliminary hearing,
referral of charges, trial in which arraignment occurred, or other
action begun prior to the date of this order, and any such nonjudicial
punishment proceeding, restraint, preliminary hearing, referral of
charges, trial in which arraignment occurred, or other action may
proceed in the same manner and with the same effect as if the Annex 1
amendments had not been prescribed.  
  
     Sec. 2.  Part I, Part II, Part III, Part IV, Part V, and Appendix
12A of the Manual for Courts-Martial, United States, are amended as
described in Annex 2, which is attached to and made a part of this
order.  The amendments in Annex 2 shall apply in accordance with the
effective date established by section 539C of the National Defense
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2022 (NDAA FY 2022), Public Law
117-81, subject to the following:  
  
     (a)  Nothing in Annex 2 shall be construed to make punishable any
act committed or omitted prior to the effective date established by
section 539C of the NDAA FY 2022.  
  
     (b)  Nothing in Annex 2 shall be construed to invalidate any
nonjudicial punishment proceeding, restraint, preliminary hearing,
referral of charges, trial in which arraignment occurred, or other
action begun prior to the effective date established by section 539C of
the NDAA FY 2022, and any such nonjudicial punishment proceeding,
restraint, preliminary hearing, referral of charges, trial in which
arraignment occurred, or other action may proceed in the same manner and
with the same effect as if the Annex 2 amendments had not been
prescribed.   
  
     Sec. 3.  Appendix 12B, Appendix 12C, and Appendix 12D are added to
the Manual for Courts-Martial, United States, and Part II of the Manual
is amended as described in Annex 3, which is attached to and made a part
of this order.  The additions and amendments in Annex 3 shall take
effect on December 27, 2023, and shall apply in accordance with section
539E(f) of the NDAA FY 2022 (10 U.S.C. 853 note), subject to the
following:   
  
     (a)  Nothing in Annex 3 shall be construed to make punishable any
act committed or omitted prior to the effective date established by
section 539E(f) of the NDAA FY 2022.  
  
     (b)  Nothing in Annex 3 shall be construed to invalidate any
nonjudicial punishment proceeding, restraint, preliminary hearing,
referral of charges, trial in which arraignment occurred, or other
action begun prior to the effective date established by section 539E(f)
of the NDAA FY 2022, and any such nonjudicial punishment proceeding,
restraint, preliminary hearing, referral of charges, trial in which
arraignment occurred, or other action may proceed in the same manner and
with the same effect as if the Annex 3 amendments had not been
prescribed.   
   

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.

    
THE WHITE HOUSE,  
 July 28, 2023.
