---
date: '2023-07-25'
published_time: 2023-07-25 11:16:55-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/07/25/a-proclamation-on-anniversary-of-the-americans-with-disabilities-act-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Anniversary of the Americans with Disabilities Act,\_2023"
---
 
Thirty-three years ago, the Congress passed the Americans with
Disabilities Act (ADA) — one of the most important civil rights laws in
our history.  Its tireless champion, Senator Tom Harkin of Iowa,
celebrated with a speech on the United States Senate floor in American
Sign Language.  His remarks were not only a tribute to his brother, who
was deaf, but a message to the millions of Americans with disabilities
that, in this country, everyone is equal and deserves to be treated with
dignity and respect.  I was proud to co-sponsor that landmark law back
then, and I am proud to celebrate its lasting legacy with a renewed push
for opportunity and justice today.

     It is hard for younger generations to imagine a world without the
ADA, but before it existed, if you were disabled, stores could turn you
away and employers could refuse to hire you.  Transit was largely
inaccessible.  America simply was not built for all Americans, but
courageous activists pushed to change that.  In 1973, the Congress
passed the landmark Rehabilitation Act, banning discrimination by any
federally funded entity.  Then, 17 years later, a bipartisan group of
legislators persevered in passing the ADA, banning discrimination
against people with disabilities in most areas of public life, from the
workplace and public schools to public transit and telecommunications.

     The ADA has had a profound impact, but we still have much more work
to do.  Disabled Americans are still three times less likely to have a
job; and when they do, they often earn less for doing the same work.
 Voting locations, transit, and public spaces are too often
inaccessible.  And we need to continue building a culture that not only
protects disability rights but also celebrates disability pride. 

     My Administration has worked hard to build on the ADA’s
foundation.  Soon after I came into office, I signed an Executive Order
advancing opportunities for people with disabilities in the Federal
workforce; and we are helping State and local governments, employers,
and nonprofits tap Federal funds to hire more Americans with
disabilities as well.  We ended the use of unjust sub-minimum wages in
Federal contracts, and the Department of Labor is working around the
clock to protect the rights of disabled workers.  The Department of
Justice and Department of Health and Human Services also developed
guidance for emergency responders to better protect the rights of people
with disabilities.  And to ensure that every American has the
opportunity to exercise their fundamental right to vote, I signed an
Executive Order directing agencies to make voter registration and
information about voting resources more accessible. 

     We are also rebuilding our Nation’s infrastructure and making
transit and public spaces more accessible.  Our Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law makes our Nation’s biggest investment ever in
accessible transit.  This includes $1.75 billion to repair and improve
accessibility in transit stations across America — including in some of
our oldest and busiest railways.  This historic investment also expands
access to high-speed Internet, so millions of disabled Americans can
work, study, and stay connected from home.  The Department of
Transportation is working to improve air travel for all, including for
people who use wheelchairs.  And the United States Access Board is
developing new guidelines under the ADA that will improve the
accessibility of sidewalks, streets, crosswalks, and other public rights
of way.

     We also know the isolation and loss of the pandemic hit the
disability community especially hard.  That is a big reason why we
provided tens of billions of dollars to States to expand Medicaid — an
essential lifeline for 21 million Americans, including many in the
disability community.  And last month, I worked with members of the
Congress to reach a bipartisan budget deal that protects Social
Security, Medicare, and Medicaid.  I also signed an Executive Order to
improve jobs and support for caregivers and provide more care options
for people with disabilities and their families.  I continue to urge
States that have not yet expanded Medicaid under the Affordable Care Act
to at least cover residents who are currently locked out.  And I call on
the Congress to improve and expand home- and community-based services so
more seniors and people with disabilities can live independently in
their own homes.

     The ADA is an essential foundation to this continued work -‑ a
reminder that we can still do big things in America when we come
together.  For over 61 million disabled Americans, it is much more than
a law — it is the key to equality, opportunity, and independence.  And
for our country, it is a testament to our character and commitment to
keep pushing to finally realize the full promise of America for all
Americans.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim July
26, 2023, as the Anniversary of the Americans with Disabilities Act.  I
encourage Americans to celebrate the 33rd year of this defining moment
in Civil Rights law and the essential contributions of individuals with
disabilities to our Nation.  
  
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-fifth
day of July, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-three, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-eighth.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
