---
date: '2023-07-28'
published_time: 2023-07-28 17:37:20-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/07/28/executive-order-on-federal-research-and-development-in-support-of-domestic-manufacturing-and-united-states-jobs/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "Executive Order on Federal Research and Development in Support of Domestic\
  \ Manufacturing and United\_States\_Jobs"
---
 
     By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and
the laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered as
follows:

     Section 1.  Policy.  The United States maintains an unparalleled
innovation ecosystem with world-class universities, Federal
laboratories, research centers, and technology incubators, supported in
part by Federal investment.  Our world is healthier, smarter, more
connected, and more sustainable because of Federal taxpayers’ investment
in discovery and innovation that has supported the commercialization of
new products and services.

     My Administration has prioritized support for our unique innovation
ecosystem by reinvesting across sectors in research and development
(R&D), demonstrations, education, and the necessary infrastructure to
accelerate the transition of discoveries quickly from the lab to the
marketplace.  

     This investment is designed to produce cutting-edge technologies
that support the competitiveness, domestic manufacturing capacity, and
well-being of the United States economy; United States workers; our
communities; and our national security.  Ensuring the commercialization
of federally funded inventions by United States manufacturers — while
maintaining intellectual property rights — will build on the successful
legacy of the United States in spurring economic growth and enhancing
United States competitiveness through R&D.  It will also further our
joint R&D work with partners and allies to strengthen the resilience of
global critical supply chains and secure America’s leadership in
delivering a net-zero emissions economy by no later than 2050.  

     Therefore, it is the policy of my Administration that when new
technologies and products are developed with support from the United
States Government, they will be manufactured in the United States
whenever feasible and consistent with applicable law.

     Sec. 2.  Coordination and Consultation.  (a)  The Assistant to the
President for National Security Affairs, the Assistant to the President
for Economic Policy, and the Director of the Office of Science and
Technology Policy (OSTP) shall coordinate the executive branch actions
necessary to implement this order through the interagency process
identified in National Security Memorandum 2 of February 4, 2021
(Renewing the National Security Council System).

     (b)  In implementing this order, the heads of executive departments
and agencies (agencies) shall, as appropriate and consistent with
applicable law, consult outside stakeholders — such as those in
industry; academia, including Historically Black Colleges and
Universities, Tribal Colleges and Universities, and other Minority
Serving Institutions; non-governmental organizations; communities; labor
unions; and State, local, Tribal, and territorial governments — in order
to implement the policy identified in section 1 of this order.

     Sec. 3.  Strengthening Domestic Manufacturing.  (a)  The Secretary
of Defense, the Secretary of Agriculture, the Secretary of Commerce, the
Secretary of Health and Human Services, the Secretary of Transportation,
the Secretary of Energy, the Secretary of Homeland Security, the
Director of the National Science Foundation, and the Administrator of
the National Aeronautics and Space Administration should consider
domestic manufacturing in Federal R&D funding agreement solicitations,
as appropriate and consistent with applicable law.  These agency heads
shall also consider how their respective agencies’ R&D funding
agreements support broader domestic manufacturing objectives, including
the development of production facilities and capabilities broadly
supportive of United States manufacturing, as appropriate and consistent
with applicable law.

     (b)  The Director of OSTP, working through the National Science and
Technology Council (NSTC) and in coordination with the Director of the
Office of Management and Budget’s Made in America Office (Made in
America Director) and the heads of agencies identified in subsection (a)
of this section, shall seek to add “domestic manufacturing” to future
interagency technology R&D roadmaps, as appropriate.  The Director of
OSTP shall endeavor to standardize the format of domestic manufacturing
considerations in technology R&D roadmaps to ensure that industry, the
research community, and agencies create the conditions for new
technologies to be produced in the United States once they are
commercialized.

     (c)  In collaboration with the Administrator of the Small Business
Administration (SBA), the heads of agencies participating in the Small
Business Innovation Research and Small Business Technology Transfer
programs are encouraged to advance a coordinated interagency approach to
innovation and research solicitations with the goals of reducing
barriers to program participation, streamlining access to funding
opportunities, and encouraging production of new technologies in the
United States.  The heads of these agencies are further encouraged to
collaborate with the SBA to support small businesses transitioning
technologies from intramural and extramural labs to commercial markets.

     (d)  The heads of agencies that have statutory Other Transaction
Authority, or that can use other business arrangements authorized by the
Congress, are encouraged, when appropriate, to consider using these
authorities to purchase or invest in leading-edge technologies to
support their production in the United States.  If these agencies use
these authorities to purchase or invest in the development of new
technologies, the terms of these purchases and investments should ensure
that the product is substantially manufactured in the United States, as
appropriate and consistent with applicable law.

     (e)  To further support the commercialization and production in the
United States of technologies developed, in part, through federally
funded R&D, the heads of agencies identified in subsection (a) of this
section are encouraged to establish or enhance the technology transfer
and commercialization capabilities of their agencies.

     Sec. 4.  Modernizing Reporting of Invention Utilization.  (a)  In
an effort to streamline reporting requirements for recipients of Federal
R&D funding agreements, the heads of agencies identified in section 3(a)
of this order should seek to make reporting on the utilization of
“subject inventions” (as defined in 35 U.S.C. 201(e)) easier and
consistent across the United States Government.

     (b)  To incentivize domestic manufacturing through the reporting of
invention disclosures and the utilization of those inventions, the heads
of agencies identified in section 3(a) of this order shall require
recipients of Federal R&D funding agreements to track and update the
awarding agency on the location in which subject inventions are
manufactured.

     (c)  The heads of agencies identified in section 3(a) of this order
should require recipients of Federal R&D funding agreements to report
annually to the awarding agency the names of licensees and manufacturing
locations of the applicable subject inventions. 

     (d)  Within 60 days of the date of this order, the Secretary of
Commerce, through the Director of the National Institute of Standards
and Technology (NIST) and in consultation with the Office of Management
and Budget (OMB), should develop award terms and conditions regarding
the reporting requirements in subsections (a) through (c) of this
section to be implemented by each awarding agency identified in section
3(a) of this order.  Award terms and conditions shall ensure that the
reporting of the information specified in subsections (b) and (c) of
this section protects business confidential information, consistent with
35 U.S.C. 202(c)(5), while providing increased visibility to taxpayers
on the use of Federal R&D funding in support of domestic manufacturing
and job creation.

     (e)  The Secretary of Commerce, through the Director of NIST and in
consultation with the Interagency Working Group for Bayh-Dole, shall
consider developing an action plan, including resource requirements, to
transition all agencies identified in section 3(a) of this order to the
iEdison reporting system to track unclassified subject inventions,
patents, and related utilization reports by calendar year 2025.  The
Secretary of Commerce shall submit the action plan to the Director of
OMB within 1 year of the date of this order.

     (f)  Not later than 120 days after issuance of any final
regulations implementing the action plan described in subsection (e) of
this section, the heads of agencies identified in section 3(a) of this
order shall report to the Director of OMB and the Director of OSTP on
steps their respective agencies have taken to transition all
unclassified reporting to iEdison by the end of calendar year 2025. 
These reports may include resource needs and timelines for
implementation.

     (g)  Within 180 days of the date of this order, the Secretary of
Commerce, through the Director of NIST and in consultation with the
Interagency Working Group for Bayh-Dole, should develop common invention
utilization questions (utilization questions), allowing agencies to add
agency-specific questions.

          (i)    The utilization questions should be used by all
agencies by May 1, 2024, for subject inventions that a Federal R&D
funding agreement recipient has elected to retain title on or after the
date of this order.

          (ii)   The utilization questions should require information on
the locations where subject inventions are produced or are used to
produce a product.

          (iii)  The Secretary of Commerce, through the Director of
NIST, and the heads of other agencies should aim to minimize the
reporting burden on recipients of Federal R&D funding agreements
associated with the utilization questions, in accordance with the
Paperwork Reduction Act (44 U.S.C. 3501 *et seq*.) and applicable OMB
guidance.

     (h)  Within 2 years after the date of this order and annually
thereafter, the heads of agencies identified in section 3(a) of this
order shall submit reports to the Made in America Director on the
utilization of inventions that were developed through their previous R&D
funding agreements and reported after the date of this order, including
where products embodying a subject invention or produced through the use
of a subject invention were manufactured.

     Sec. 5.  Securing Critical and Emerging Technologies Through
Domestic Manufacturing.  (a)  Within 90 days of the date of this order,
the heads of agencies identified in section 3(a) of this order shall
consider whether “exceptional circumstances” exist warranting a
determination that a restriction of the right to retain title to any
subject invention funded by their respective agencies’ R&D funding
agreements will better promote the policy and objectives of the
Bayh-Dole Act, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law,
including 35 U.S.C. 202(a).  Such consideration shall include evaluation
of whether “exceptional circumstances” exist to warrant the extension of
the requirement to manufacture “substantially in the United States” to
recipients of Federal R&D funding agreements, to non-exclusive licensees
of subject inventions, and for use or sale of subject inventions outside
the United States, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law,
including 35 U.S.C. 202(a).  In considering the issuance of such
determinations for these purposes, the heads of agencies identified in
section 3(a) of this order shall:

          (i)   consider measures for technologies important to the
United States economy and national security, including critical and
emerging technologies such as energy storage, quantum information
science, artificial intelligence and machine learning, semiconductors
and microelectronics, and advanced manufacturing; and

          (ii)  consider narrowly tailoring terms related to enhanced
United States manufacturing while encouraging technology transfer and
commercialization, and allowing small businesses and nonprofit
organizations to retain ownership of and commercialize their federally
funded subject inventions.

     (b)  The heads of agencies identified in section 3(a) of this order
shall consider whether other measures are needed to promote domestic
manufacturing of subject inventions funded by their respective agencies.

     Sec. 6.  Implementation of this Order.  (a)  Within 2 years of the
date of this order and annually thereafter for 5 years, the heads of
agencies identified in section 3(a) of this order shall submit a report
on their respective agencies’ implementation of this order to the
Director of OMB and the Director of OSTP.

     (b)  Each report shall include, to the extent possible, a review of
this order’s effectiveness in using the R&D funding agreements of the
agencies identified in section 3(a) of this order to support domestic
manufacturing, United States industrial competitiveness, and job
creation.

     (c)  Each report shall include, to the extent possible,
identification of any challenges to implementation of this order or to
the effectiveness of this order in accomplishing the policy goals
described in section 1 of this order, as well as recommendations to
address such challenges.

     Sec. 7.  Improving the Waiver Process.  (a)  Under the Bayh-Dole
Act, agencies may waive the requirement that certain products embodying
the subject invention or produced through the use of the subject
invention be “manufactured substantially in the United States” if, as
specified in 35 U.S.C. 204, “reasonable but unsuccessful efforts have
been made to grant licenses on similar terms to potential licensees that
would be likely to manufacture substantially in the United States” or
“under the circumstances domestic manufacture is not commercially
feasible.”

     (b)  Every agency should consider developing a process by which the
agency may waive the domestic manufacturing requirements for
agency-funded technology or technology developed under an agency funding
opportunity without a request from a recipient of a Federal R&D funding
agreement.  As part of its process, an agency should seek concurrence
from the Made in America Director to waive the domestic manufacturing
requirements, and should set forth specific factors that may support a
waiver, including whether the manufacture of the technology outside the
United States is in the economic or national security interest of the
United States.

     (c)  The heads of agencies identified in section 3(a) of this order
shall ensure that the waiver process for their agency is rigorous,
timely, transparent, and consistent, with due regard for all applicable
authorities, including Executive Order 14005 of January 25, 2021
(Ensuring the Future Is Made in All of America by All of America’s
Workers), and the Bayh-Dole Act’s requirement that a waiver be available
when reasonable but unsuccessful efforts have been made to license to a
company that could substantially manufacture in the United States, or
when domestic manufacture is not commercially feasible.

     (d)  The Secretary of Commerce, through the Director of NIST and in
consultation with the Interagency Working Group for Bayh-Dole, the NSTC
Lab-to-Market Subcommittee, and the Made in America Director, shall
provide guidance to agencies on the factors and considerations that
should be weighed in determining whether domestic manufacturing is not
commercially feasible.  Guidance shall be designed to help applicants
understand the factors an agency will consider when evaluating a waiver
application, and should ensure that a determination of the commercial
feasibility of manufacturing abroad is not based on substandard or
unacceptable working conditions.  Within 90 days of the date of this
order, the Secretary of Commerce, through the Director of NIST, shall
make the guidance available for public comment.

     (e)  Within 90 days of the date of this order, the Secretary of
Commerce, through the Director of NIST and in consultation with the
Interagency Working Group for Bayh-Dole, shall develop common waiver
application questions for use by all agencies.

          (i)   The common waiver application questions should include
as relevant criteria, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law:

               (A)  how the waiver will be used;

               (B)  why it is important that the subject invention be
brought to market;

               (C)  any potential economic and national security impacts
of manufacturing the subject invention abroad;

               (D)  the benefits that will accrue to domestic
manufacturing and United States jobs as a result of the subject
invention being brought to market;

               (E)  whether the applicant is proposing an exclusive or
non-exclusive license; and

               (F)  the conditions under which the subject invention
would be manufactured abroad, including unionization of workplaces,
health and safety standards, labor and wage laws, and environmental
impacts.

          (ii)  Given the need to maintain agency flexibility, the heads
of agencies identified in section 3(a) of this order may add questions
to the common waiver application questions, but they should do so
sparingly and only as needed to accomplish the policy set forth in this
order within their respective agencies’ existing authorities.

     (f)  The heads of agencies identified in section 3(a) of this order
shall adopt the common waiver application questions, to the extent
consistent with applicable law.

     (g)  The heads of agencies identified in section 3(a) of this order
should acknowledge receipt of waiver applications within 10 business
days, to the extent practicable.  Once an applicant submits a waiver
request application, the reviewing agency should seek to finalize its
decision, including negotiations with the applicant as needed, as soon
as possible.

     (h)  Within 270 days of the date of this order, the heads of
agencies identified in section 3(a) of this order shall establish agency
guidelines for negotiating with waiver applicants to retain as much
value or benefit to the United States as possible, as appropriate and
consistent with applicable law, while considering technical, business,
social, environmental, and economic realities.  In assessing a waiver’s
value to the United States economy, the heads of agencies identified in
section 3(a) of this order should consider, as appropriate and in
addition to any other relevant factors, potential benefits to domestic
manufacturing competitiveness, to United States job creation, and to
United States economic and national security.

          (i)   The heads of agencies identified in section 3(a) of this
order should consider limiting waivers to applicants that commit to
manufacture in locations that maintain a market economy and for specific
agreed-upon purposes.

          (ii)  The heads of agencies identified in section 3(a) of this
order should expect waiver applicants to deliver alternative benefits to
the United States as part of an agreement to grant the waiver. 
Consideration of alternative benefits may include direct or indirect
investment in domestic plants and equipment, the creation of
high-quality domestic jobs, or further domestic development of the
subject invention.

     (i)  Beginning in fiscal year 2024 and on an annual basis
thereafter, the heads of agencies identified in section 3(a) of this
order shall provide to the Secretary of Commerce, through the
Interagency Working Group for Bayh-Dole, a summary of each waiver
application received, approved, and rejected.  The summary shall include
the terms of any approved waiver and the processing time needed to reach
a decision.

          (i)   The Secretary of Commerce, through the Interagency
Working Group for Bayh-Dole, shall publish a periodic summary of the
waiver applications in aggregate that describes common reasons for
waiver requests, processing times by agency, and recommended policy
responses to common challenges.

          (ii)  Agencies shall ensure that the information submitted for
publication to the Secretary of Commerce, through the Interagency
Working Group for Bayh-Dole, appropriately protects business
confidential and sensitive information provided by waiver applicants as
part of their justification for the waiver, consistent with 35 U.S.C.
202(c)(5).  However, the names of applicants seeking a waiver and a
summary of the benefits the waiver recipients will provide to the United
States should be made available to the public, to the extent permitted
by law.

     Sec. 8.  General Provisions.  (a)  Nothing in this order shall be
construed to impair or otherwise affect:

          (i)   the authority granted by law to an executive department
or agency, or the head thereof; or

          (ii)  the functions of the Director of OMB relating to
budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

     (b)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law
and subject to the availability of appropriations.

     (c)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right
or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity
by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.  
  

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.

THE WHITE HOUSE,  
  July 28, 2023.
