---
date: '2023-07-21'
published_time: 2023-07-21 16:53:50-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/07/21/press-release-notice-on-the-continuation-of-the-national-emergency-with-respect-to-mali/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "Press Release: Notice on the Continuation of the National Emergency with Respect\
  \ to\_Mali"
---
 
On July 26, 2019, by Executive Order 13882, the President declared a
national emergency pursuant to the International Emergency Economic
Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 *et seq.*) to deal with the unusual and
extraordinary threat to the national security and foreign policy of the
United States constituted by the situation in Mali.

The situation in Mali, including repeated violations of ceasefire
arrangements made pursuant to the 2015 Agreement on Peace and
Reconciliation in Mali; the expansion of terrorist activities into
southern and central Mali; the intensification of drug trafficking and
trafficking in persons, human rights abuses, and hostage-taking; a
further coup d’etat; the presence of foreign mercenaries threatening
peace, security, and stability; and the intensification of attacks
against civilians, the Malian defense and security forces, the United
Nations Multidimensional Integrated Stabilization Mission in Mali
(MINUSMA), and international security presences, continues to pose an
unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security and foreign
policy of the United States.  For this reason, the national emergency
declared in Executive Order 13882 on July 26, 2019, must continue in
effect beyond July 26, 2023.  Therefore, in accordance with
section 202(d) of the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1622(d)), I am
continuing for 1 year the national emergency declared in Executive Order
13882 with respect to the situation in Mali*.*

This notice shall be published in the *Federal Register *and transmitted
to the Congress.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.

THE WHITE HOUSE,  
 July 21, 2023.
