---
date: '2023-07-21'
published_time: 2023-07-21 11:24:52-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/07/21/a-proclamation-on-made-in-america-week-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Made in America Week,\_2023"
---
 
American workers are the best in the world; and today, with a historic
Investing in America agenda, we are proving that the phrase “Made in
America” is not just a slogan — it is a reality.  During Made in America
Week, we celebrate the workers, unions, and innovators who power our
Nation’s prosperity and make it possible for America to once again lead
the world in manufacturing.

     American manufacturing has long been the backbone of our economy.
 But for decades, companies moved jobs and production overseas,
hollowing out the middle class, rewarding wealth instead of work,
leaving our supply chains vulnerable, and robbing countless communities
of a sense of pride and self-worth.  I ran for President to change that
— and thanks to the historic legislation that we have passed in these
last 2 years, it is happening.  Those laws form the foundation of our
Investing in America agenda, which has already attracted hundreds of
billions of dollars in private investment and created nearly 800,000 new
manufacturing jobs in everything from semiconductors and electric car
batteries to clean energy technology and more.

     Our Bipartisan Infrastructure Law makes a once-in-a-generation
investment in rebuilding America’s roads, bridges, railways, ports,
airports, and water systems, using American-made iron, steel,
manufactured products, and construction materials.  And because this
bill included provisions like $7.5 billion to build a national network
of 500,000 electric vehicle charging stations with American-made
equipment, we have seen a boom in manufacturing and private investment
here at home.  Our historic CHIPS and Science Act brings semiconductor
manufacturing home, protecting national security and boosting our supply
of those tiny computer chips that power everything from cell phones and
computers to washing machines.  Our Inflation Reduction Act, meanwhile,
makes our biggest investment in fighting the climate crisis in history,
with tax credits to boost demand for American-made clean energy
technology.  We are expanding Registered Apprenticeship and
pre-apprenticeship programs, training the next generation of American
workers to lead the world in these new industries throughout the 21st
century.  Last month, we launched www.Invest.gov, an interactive website
showing the historic public and private investments that these laws are
bringing to States and territories across the country so Americans
everywhere can see “Made in America” progress in their own communities
and feel new hope and pride reborn.

     At the same time, we are using the purchasing power of the Federal
Government — the largest buyer of consumer goods in the world — to
directly boost demand for American-made products.  During my first week
as President, I signed an Executive Order directing agencies to tighten
Buy America and Buy American policies, close loopholes, increase
coordination, and ensure transparency.  We also enacted the biggest
change to the Buy American Act in nearly 70 years, now requiring a
record 60 percent of the value of products’ components to be
American-made, which will reach 75 percent by 2029.  We are also using a
federally funded national network — the Manufacturing Extension
Partnership — to increase the capabilities of small- and medium-sized
domestic manufacturers so that they win more Federal contracts.  And to
help all American businesses find these opportunities, we launched
www.MadeinAmerica.gov.

     These historic actions are making sure American workers make
American goods on American soil — a key part of my Administration’s
mission to rebuild our economy from the middle out and bottom up, not
the top down.  America has always been a can-do country full of
possibilities, and together we will keep working to make our economy the
most competitive and innovative in the world, while leaving no one
behind.  This week, we can all feel new pride in those three powerful
words — Made in America.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim July
23 through July 29, 2023, as Made in America Week.  I call upon all
Americans to observe this week by celebrating Made in America and
supporting American workers and domestic businesses that are the
backbone of building a future here in America.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
twenty-first day of July, in the year of our Lord
two thousand twenty-three, and of the Independence of the United States
of America the two hundred and forty-eighth.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
