---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-03-07'
modified_time: 2021-03-06 22:28:49-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/03/07/fact-sheet-president-biden-to-sign-executive-order-to-promote-voting-access/
published_time: 2021-03-07 05:00:00-05:00
title: "Fact Sheet: President\_Biden to Sign Executive Order to Promote Voting\_Access"
---
 
On this day in 1965, state troopers beat and tear-gassed hundreds of
peaceful protestors crossing the Edmund Pettus Bridge in Selma, Alabama.
The protestors were seeking justice and to ensure their right to vote
would not be denied. At the head of the march were former Congressman
John Lewis and Rev. Hosea Williams. As the troopers advanced with clubs
raised, the group knelt in prayer. The images of protestors, bloody and
bruised, flashing on television screens across the nation spurred
Congress to pass, and President Johnson to sign into law, the 1965
Voting Rights Act. Congressman Lewis’ fight to protect and expand the
vote did not end that day in Selma. He carried the mission to our
nation’s Capital and remained a vigilant protector of our right to vote,
knowing all too well the burdens borne to guarantee it.

Today, to mark the 56<sup>th</sup> anniversary of Selma with actions and
not just words, President Biden will sign an Executive Order to promote
voting access and allow all eligible Americans to participate in our
democracy. This Executive Order will leverage the resources of the
federal government to increase access to voter registration services and
information about voting.   
  
As the President has said, democracy doesn’t happen by accident. We have
to defend, strengthen, and renew it. Free and fair elections that
reflect the will of the American people must be protected and defended. 
Too many Americans face significant obstacles to exercising their
fundamental right to vote. For generations, Black voters and other
voters of color have faced discriminatory policies that suppress their
vote. Voters of color are more likely to face long lines at the polls
and are disproportionately burdened by voter identification laws and
limited opportunities to vote by mail. Native Americans likewise face
limited opportunities to vote by mail and frequently lack sufficient
polling places and voter registration opportunities near their homes.
Limited access to language assistance is an obstacle for many voters. 
People with disabilities face longstanding barriers in exercising their
right to vote, especially when it comes to legally required
accommodations to vote privately and independently. Members of our
military serving overseas, as well as other American citizens living
abroad, also face unnecessary challenges to exercising their right to
vote.

Today’s Executive Order is an initial step in this Administration’s
efforts to protect the right to vote and ensure all eligible citizens
can freely participate in the electoral process. The President is
committed to working with Congress to restore the Voting Rights Act and
pass H.R. 1, the For the People Act, which includes bold reforms to make
it more equitable and accessible for all Americans to exercise their
fundamental right to vote.

Today’s Executive Order will:

**Direct federal agencies to expand access to voter registration and
election information. **The executive order will direct the head of each
federal agency to submit to the Assistant to the President for Domestic
Policy a strategic plan outlining ways their agency can promote voter
registration and participation within 200 days. These strategic plans
could include actions such as:

-   Leveraging agencies’ existing websites and social media to provide
    information about how to register to vote
-   Distributing voter registration and vote-by-mail ballot applications
    in the course of regular services
-   Considering whether any identity documents issued by the agency can
    be issued in a form that satisfies state voter identification laws

And, the Federal Chief Information Officer of the United States will
coordinate across federal agencies to improve or modernize federal
websites and digital services that provide election and voting
information to the American people, including ensuring that federal
websites are accessible to individuals with disabilities and people with
limited English proficiency.  
  
**Direct federal agencies to assist states under the National Voter
Registration Act.** Today’s Executive Order reaffirms the intent of the
National Voter Registration Act (NVRA) of 1993 to have federal agencies
assist with voter registration efforts. Since the NVRA was enacted,
state government agencies, like a department of motor vehicles, have
helped register hundreds of millions of voters. Unlike state agencies,
however, federal agencies can only become voter registration agencies
under the NVRA at a state’s request. Federal agencies providing direct
services to underserved communities represent a unique opportunity to
provide access to voter registration services. Under today’s action, the
head of each federal agency will evaluate where and how the federal
agency provides services that directly engage with the public, and to
the greatest extent possible, formally notify states in which it
provides services that it would agree to designation as a voter
registration agency. If requested by a state to be designated as a voter
registration agency, the federal agency shall to the greatest extent
possible agree to such designation.  
  
**Improve and modernize Vote.gov.** The Executive Order will direct the
General Services Administration (GSA) to submit to the Assistant to the
President for Domestic Policy a strategic plan outlining steps to
modernize and improve the user experience of the federal government’s
premier source of voting-related information, Vote.gov, including the
accessibility of the website within 200 days. The order requires GSA to
seek the input of affected stakeholders, including election
administrators, civil rights and disability rights activists, Tribal
Nations, and nonprofit groups that study best practices for using
technology to promote civic engagement.  
  
**Increase federal employees’ access to voting.** The Executive Order
will direct the Director of the Office of Personnel Management to work
with the head of federal agencies to provide recommendations to the
President regarding leave for federal employees to vote or to volunteer
as nonpartisan poll workers, ensuring that the federal government serves
as a model to other employers.  
  
**Analyze barriers to voting for people with disabilities.  **The
Executive Order will direct the National Institute of Standards and
Technology (NIST) within the Department of Commerce to evaluate and
publish recommendations on the steps needed to ensure that the online
Federal Voter Registration Form is accessible to people with
disabilities within 200 days.  The order directs NIST—in consultation
with the Department of Justice, the Election Assistance Commission, and
other agencies—to analyze barriers to private and independent voting for
people with disabilities, including access to voter registration, voting
technology, voting by mail, polling locations, and poll worker
training.  
  
**Increase voting access for active duty military and other overseas
voters.  **The executive order will direct the Secretary of Defense
within 200 days to establish procedures to annually offer each member of
the Armed Forces on active duty the opportunity to register to vote in
federal elections, update voter registration, or request an absentee
ballot. Additionally, the Secretary of Defense—in coordination with the
Department of State, the Military Postal Service Agency and United
States Postal Service—is required to submit a strategic plan for an
end-to-end ballot tracking system for overseas ballots. And, the head of
each federal agency with overseas employees is directed to designate a
point of contact to coordinate with the Federal Voting Assistance
Program (FVAP) and promote voter registration and voting services
available to these employees.  
  
**Provide voting access and education to citizens in federal
custody.** The order will direct the Attorney General to establish
procedures to provide educational materials related to voter
registration and voting, and to the extent practicable, to facilitate
voter registration, for all eligible individuals in the custody of the
Federal Bureau of Prisons.  It also directs the Attorney General to
coordinate with the Probation and Pretrial Services Office to develop
similar procedures for eligible individuals under its supervision. The
Executive Order also directs the Attorney General to establish
procedures to ensure the U.S. Marshals Service includes language in jail
contracts to provide eligible individuals educational materials related
to voter registration and voting, and to facilitate voting by mail, to
the extent practicable and appropriate. And, it directs the Attorney
General to take steps to support formerly incarcerated individuals in
obtaining a means of identification that satisfies state voter
identification laws.  
  
**Establish a Native American voting rights steering group. **The order
will establish an interagency steering group on Native American voting
rights to be coordinated by the Domestic Policy Council. The steering
group will include, at a minimum, the Attorney General, the Secretary of
the Interior, the Secretary of Agriculture, the Secretary of Health and
Human Services, the Secretary of Labor, and the Secretary of Veterans
Affairs or their designees. The steering group will study best
practices, in consultation with Tribal Nations, for protecting voting
rights of Native Americans and will produce a report within one year of
the date of the order outlining recommendations for increasing voter
outreach, education, registration, and turnout in Native American
communities.

\###
