---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-03-24'
modified_time: 2021-03-24 18:14:57-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/03/24/greek-independence-day-a-national-day-of-celebration-of-greek-and-american-democracy-2021/
published_time: 2021-03-24 18:13:27-04:00
title: 'A Proclamation on Greek Independence Day: A National Day of Celebration of
  Greek and American Democracy, 2021'
---
 
Exactly 200 years ago, inspired by the same ideals of liberty,
self-governance, and passionate belief in democracy that sparked the
American Revolution, the people of Greece declared their independence.
 Today, the people of the United States join the Greek people in
commemorating the creation of the modern Greek state — and celebrating
two centuries of enduring friendship between our nations.

On Greek Independence Day, we celebrate the history and values that
unite the United States of America and the Hellenic Republic.  Our
Founding Fathers drew inspiration from ancient Greece’s example as they
framed our Constitution and formed the world’s first modern democracy.
 A few decades later, American Philhellenes championed Greece’s quest
for independence, forging a close connection between our peoples that
has flourished over the ensuing years. 

During the course of my career, I have had the privilege to work closely
with many Greek Prime Ministers.  I have been blessed by lifelong
friendships in the Greek-American community, including with a great
leader whom we recently lost, Senator Paul Sarbanes.  From a young age,
I have admired the courage, decency, and honor that defines the Greek
community — the unwillingness to bend or bow in the face of injustice,
or to accept abuses of power.

Today, Greece is a crucial NATO ally and friend of the United States,
and a leader for peace and prosperity in the Eastern Mediterranean,
Black Sea, and Western Balkans regions.  The United States welcomes
Greece’s commitment to hosting the United States Naval Support Activity
at Souda Bay, Crete, and United States rotational forces elsewhere in
Greece.  Through our ongoing Strategic Dialogue, we have advanced our
relationship in nearly every respect.  We have accelerated progress on
making the region a safer place, and we have increased trade and
investment that brings jobs and prosperity to the people of our nations
and to the world.

Our strong and historic relationship continues to grow in depth and
breadth.  We have diversified the region’s energy sources, enhanced
educational and cultural exchanges, partnered on counterterrorism, and
reconfirmed our commitment to the rule of law.  As we honor our shared
history and accomplishments, we believe the common values that have
guided our societies for 200 years will help us accomplish even more
together in the years to come.

This bicentennial reminds Americans and Greeks alike of the enduring
strength of the principles that sparked our respective revolutions and
the values that uphold our democracies.  We congratulate
Hellenic-American organizations, the estimated three million Americans
of Greek descent, and the Greek people on a year of commemorations and
events celebrating this historic milestone in both the United States and
Greece.  Together, we will continue to lift high the lamp of democracy,
whatever challenges come our way. 

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim March 25, 2021, as
Greek Independence Day:  A National Day of Celebration of Greek and
American Democracy, and I call upon the people of the United States to
observe this day with appropriate ceremonies and activities.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-fourth day
of March, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-fifth.

                            JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
