---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-03-08'
modified_time: 2021-03-08 21:32:54-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/03/08/statement-by-president-biden-on-the-introduction-of-the-violence-against-women-reauthorization-act-of-2021/
published_time: 2021-03-08 21:32:53-05:00
title: Statement by President Biden on the Introduction of the Violence Against Women
  Reauthorization Act of 2021
---
 
I applaud the House of Representatives for introducing today the
Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act (VAWA), and I urge Congress
to come together in a bipartisan manner to ensure swift passage of VAWA
legislation in both the House and the Senate. Strengthening and renewing
VAWA is long past due.  Delay is not an option, especially when the
pandemic and economic crisis have only further increased the risks of
abuse and the barriers to safety for women in the United States.
Domestic violence is being called a pandemic within the COVID-19
pandemic, with growing evidence showing that the conditions of the
pandemic have resulted in escalated rates of intimate partner violence,
and in some cases more severe injuries.

I was raised to believe that the greatest sin was the abuse of power,
and I’ve spent my life in public office trying to fight those abuses
everywhere I see them. That’s what motivated me to write and champion
the original Violence Against Women Act – even as I was told time and
time again that domestic violence was a “family issue” that should be
left to families to address in private. VAWA has been reauthorized three
times with bipartisan support in the years since we first passed it.
Each time, I worked to enhance the legislation to address barriers and
to expand access to safety and well being for all survivors, including
those from marginalized communities. Studies demonstrated that in the
first two decades following VAWA’s implementation the rates of domestic
violence declined significantly. While there has been significant
progress in efforts to prevent and improve the response to domestic
violence, sexual assault, dating violence, and stalking, there is still
much work to do.

In 2019, a bipartisan coalition in the House of Representatives passed
the Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act of 2019, which included
significant improvements and increased pathways to safety that were
proposed by advocates, survivors, lawyers, experts, prosecutors, and law
enforcement who are in the trenches protecting and supporting survivors.
Every single Senate Democrat signed on to the Senate version of the
House-passed bill, but Republican Senate leadership refused to bring
VAWA to the floor for a vote. This should not be a Democratic or
Republican issue – it’s a matter of justice and compassion. I am
grateful to see the House of Representatives champion ending
gender-based violence, and I urge Congress to follow past precedent and
bring a strong bipartisan coalition together for swift passage of VAWA.

\###
