---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-03-12'
modified_time: 2021-03-12 11:58:09-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/03/12/quad-leaders-joint-statement-the-spirit-of-the-quad/
published_time: 2021-03-12 11:58:08-05:00
title: "Quad Leaders\u2019 Joint Statement: \u201CThe Spirit of the\_Quad\u201D"
---
 
1. We have convened to reaffirm our commitment to quadrilateral
cooperation between Australia, India, Japan, and the United States. We
bring diverse perspectives and are united in a shared vision for the
free and open Indo-Pacific. We strive for a region that is free, open,
inclusive, healthy, anchored by democratic values, and unconstrained by
coercion. We recall that our joint efforts toward this positive vision
arose out of an international tragedy, the tsunami of 2004. Today, the
global devastation wrought by COVID-19, the threat of climate
change, and security challenges facing the region summon us with renewed
purpose. On this historic occasion of March 12, 2021, the first-ever
leader-level summit of the Quad, we pledge to strengthen our cooperation
on the defining challenges of our time.  
   
2. Together, we commit to promoting a free, open rules-based order,
rooted in international law to advance security and prosperity and
counter threats to both in the Indo-Pacific and beyond. We support the
rule of law, freedom of navigation and overflight, peaceful resolution
of disputes, democratic values, and territorial integrity. We commit to
work together and with a range of partners. We reaffirm our strong
support for ASEAN’s unity and centrality as well as the ASEAN Outlook on
the Indo-Pacific. Full of potential, the Quad looks forward to the
future; it seeks to uphold peace and prosperity and strengthen
democratic resilience, based on universal values.  
   
3. Our common goals require us to reckon with the most urgent of global
challenges. Today, we pledge to respond to the economic and health
impacts of COVID-19, combat climate change, and address shared
challenges, including in cyber space, critical
technologies, counterterrorism, quality infrastructure investment, and
humanitarian-assistance and disaster-relief as well as maritime
domains.  
   
4. Building on the progress our countries have achieved on health
security, we will join forces to expand safe, affordable, and
effective vaccine production and equitable access, to speed economic
recovery and benefit global health. With steadfast commitment to the
health and safety of our own people, we also recognize that none of us
can be safe as long as the pandemic continues to spread. We will,
therefore, collaborate to strengthen equitable vaccine access for the
Indo-Pacific, with close coordination with multilateral organizations
including the World Health Organization and COVAX. We call for
transparent and results-oriented reform at the World Health
Organization. We are united in recognizing that climate change is a
global priority and will work to strengthen the climate actions of all
nations, including to keep a Paris-aligned temperature limit within
reach. We look forward to a successful COP 26 in Glasgow. We will begin
cooperation on the critical technologies of the future to ensure that
innovation is consistent with a free, open, inclusive, and resilient
Indo-Pacific. We will continue to prioritize the role of international
law in the maritime domain, particularly as reflected in the United
Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS), and facilitate
collaboration, including in maritime security, to meet challenges to the
rules-based maritime order in the East and South China Seas. We reaffirm
our commitment to the complete denuclearization of North Korea in
accordance with United Nations Security Council resolutions, and also
confirm the necessity of immediate resolution of the issue of Japanese
abductees. As long-standing supporters of Myanmar and its people, we
emphasize the urgent need to restore democracy and the priority of
strengthening democratic resilience.  
   
5. To advance these goals and others, we will redouble our commitment to
Quad engagement. We will combine our nations’ medical, scientific,
financing, manufacturing and delivery, and development capabilities and
establish a vaccine expert working group to implement our path-breaking
commitment to safe and effective vaccine distribution; we will launch a
critical- and emerging-technology working group to facilitate
cooperation on international standards and innovative technologies of
the future; and we will establish a climate working group to strengthen
climate actions globally on mitigation, adaptation, resilience,
technology, capacity-building, and climate finance. Our experts and
senior officials will continue to meet regularly; our Foreign Ministers
will converse often and meet at least once a year. At the leader level,
we will hold an in-person summit by the end of 2021. The ambition of
these engagements is fit to the moment; we are committed to leveraging
our partnership to help the world’s most dynamic region respond to
historic crisis, so that it may be the free, open, accessible, diverse,
and thriving Indo-Pacific we all seek.

\###
