---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-03-11'
modified_time: 2021-03-12 14:42:28-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/03/11/president-biden-announces-intent-to-nominate-key-roles-for-the-department-of-treasury/
published_time: 2021-03-11 10:27:26-05:00
title: "President\_Biden Announces Intent to Nominate Key Roles for the Department\
  \ of\_Treasury"
---
 
Today, President Joe Biden announced his intent to nominate Nellie
Liang, Lily Batchelder, Ben Harris, and Jonathan Davidson to serve in
key roles at the Department of Treasury. 

**Under Secretary for Domestic Finance – Nellie Liang**

Nellie Liang was a Senior Fellow in Economic Studies at the Brookings
Institution.  She also was a Visiting Scholar at the International
Monetary Fund’s Monetary and Capital Markets Department, Lecturer at the
Yale School of Management, and a member of the Congressional Budget
Office’s Panel of Economic Advisors.  Over three decades at the Board of
Governors of the Federal Reserve System, Liang held a range of
positions, including as the first Director of the Division of Financial
Stability from 2010 to 2017.  In that position, she oversaw the
development of financial stability policies related to risks in
financial firms and financial markets, and interactions of financial
policies with monetary policy.  Her recent research has focused on the
financial system and macroeconomic growth. Liang received a Ph.D. in
economics from the University of Maryland and a B.A. in economics from
the University of Notre Dame.

**Assistant Secretary for Tax Policy – Lily Batchelder**

Lily Batchelder is the Robert C. Kopple Family Professor of Taxation at
NYU School of Law and an affiliated professor at the NYU Wagner School
of Public Service. From 2014 to 2015, she served as Deputy Director of
the White House National Economic Council and Deputy Assistant to the
President under President Obama. There, she was responsible for tax and
budget issues, including tax reform, retirement policy, and low-income
benefits. From 2010 to 2014, she served as Majority Chief Tax Counsel
for the U.S. Senate Committee on Finance, where she led Chairman
Baucus’s work on tax issues, including tax reform and the fiscal cliffs.
Batchelder’s scholarship and teaching focus on personal income taxes,
wealth transfer taxes, business tax reform, retirement savings, social
insurance, and the effects of fiscal policy on economic insecurity,
income disparities, and intergenerational mobility. Before joining NYU
in 2005, Batchelder was an associate at Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher &
Flom, director of community affairs for a New York state senator, and a
client advocate for a small social services organization in Ocean
Hill-Brownsville, Brooklyn. Batchelder received an AB in Political
Science with honors and distinction from Stanford University, an MPP
from the Harvard Kennedy School, and a JD from Yale Law School.

**Assistant Secretary for Economic Policy – Ben Harris**

Ben Harris was a research associate professor and Executive Director at
the Kellogg Public-Private Interface at Northwestern University’s
Kellogg School of Management. Harris also served as the chief economist
with Results for America and the senior economic advisor to the Biden
Campaign. During the Obama-Biden Administration, Harris was the chief
economist and economic adviser to Vice President Biden and a senior
economist with the Council of Economic Advisers. Harris has held
research positions at several think tanks, including the Brookings
Institution and the Urban Institute. He holds a PhD in economics from
George Washington University, masters’ degrees from Cornell and Columbia
Universities, and a BA from Tufts University. He was also a Fulbright
Scholar to Namibia. 

**Assistant Secretary for Legislative Affairs – Jonathan Davidson**

Jonathan Davidson has worked on Capitol Hill for more than two decades.
He has served as Senator Michael Bennet’s Chief of Staff since 2011.
Previous to that, he served as Chief of Staff to Senator Paul Sarbanes
and Representative John Sarbanes, and Chief Counsel to Senator Mark
Warner. During the transition, Davidson served as the Biden-Harris
Transition’s Economic Nominations Confirmation team lead. Davidson is
also an Adjunct Professor at American University’s School of Public
Policy, periodically teaching a class on the Legislative Process.
Davidson clerked for Judge William Sessions, Chief Judge of the Federal
District Court of Vermont. Jonathan is a graduate of the University of
North Carolina at Chapel Hill and the Georgetown University Law Center.

**\###**
