---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-03-09'
modified_time: 2021-03-09 07:56:38-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/03/09/white-house-announces-additional-staff/
published_time: 2021-03-09 08:00:00-05:00
title: "White\_House Announces Additional\_Staff"
---
 
Today, President Biden and Vice President Harris announced the
appointments of additional White House staff who will serve in the
Office of Administration, White House Counsel’s Office, Office of
Legislative Affairs, Office of Management and Administration, White
House Military Office, Office of Presidential Correspondence, and
Speechwriting. The new staff bring a breadth of exceptional talent,
diverse experience, and steadfast dedication to the White House and will
play key roles supporting the Biden-Harris Administration’s commitment
to tackling the crises facing the country and building back better.

Biographies of the appointees are listed below in alphabetical order and
by White House office:

**<u>Office of Administration and Office of Management and
Administration</u>**  
  
**Faisal Amin, Deputy Director of Management and Administration and the
Office of Administration**  
Faisal Amin was most recently on the Vetting Operations team and on the
Executive Office of the President Management and Administration Agency
Review Team on the Biden-Harris Transition. Prior to the Transition, he
served as an Assistant General Counsel for Appropriations Law at the
United States Government Accountability Office. Amin served in several
roles during the Obama-Biden Administration, including as Director of
Administration and Associate Counsel for Fiscal Law in the Office of the
Vice President, as Chief Financial Officer of the Executive Office of
the President, and as Deputy Chief of Staff in the Office of the Vice
President.  Originally from California, he earned his undergraduate
degree at the University of California, Berkeley, and his law degree at
the University of Arizona. He lives in Maryland with his wife and two
sons.  
  
**Dan Jacobson, General Counsel for the Office of Administration**  
Before joining the Biden-Harris Administration, Daniel Jacobson was an
attorney at Arnold & Porter in Washington D.C. where he focused on
voting rights litigation. Jacobson previously served as an Associate
Counsel in the White House Counsel’s Office during the Obama-Biden
Administration. Following law school, Jacobson served as a law clerk for
the Honorable A. Wallace Tashima on the Ninth Circuit and the Honorable
Naomi Reice Buchwald in the Southern District of New York. Originally
from New York, Jacobson is a graduate of Harvard Law School and Yale
University.     
  
**Dana Rosenzweig, Deputy Director of Management and Administration for
Operations**  
Before joining the Biden-Harris Administration, Dana Rosenzweig was an
Engagement Manager at McKinsey & Company, where she led large-scale
change management programs focused on leadership and development
training and strategic operations. Prior to that, she served in the
Obama-Biden Administration as Director of Administration for the Office
of the Vice President. Originally from Pennsylvania, Rosenzweig is a
graduate of Yale University and The Wharton School of the University of
Pennsylvania.  
  
**<u>White House Counsel’s Office</u>**  
  
**Alicia O’Brien, Senior Counsel**  
Alicia O’Brien served at the Department of Justice as an Associate
Deputy Attorney General in the office of Deputy Attorney General Sally
Yates, and as a Deputy Assistant Attorney General in the Office of
Legislative Affairs during the Obama-Biden Administration. In these
roles, she managed the Department’s responses to congressional
oversight, prepared senior officials for congressional hearings, and
played a key role in the Senate confirmation process for presidentially
appointed Department nominees. Before joining the Biden-Harris
Administration, O’Brien most recently was a partner at King & Spalding
LLP in Washington, D.C. Originally from northern Ohio, O’Brien is a
graduate of the University of Maryland and American University
Washington College of Law. She lives in Washington, D.C. with her
husband and two daughters.   
  
**<u>Office of Legislative Affairs</u>**  
  
**Jonathan Black, Special Assistant to the President and Senate
Legislative Affairs Liaison**  
Jonathan Black served as a Senior Policy Advisor to U.S. Senator Tom
Udall of New Mexico on energy and environmental issues from 2013-2021.
Prior to that, he served as a Professional Staff Member on the U.S.
Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources Democratic Staff for
Chairman Jeff Bingaman of New Mexico and held a variety of other
positions on the Committee since 2001. Originally from Long Island, New
York, Black is a graduate of the University of Richmond, Virginia and
has a M.A. from the George Washington University in Washington, DC.  
  
**Elizabeth Jurinka, Special Assistant to the President and Senate
Legislative Affairs Liaison**  
Elizabeth Jurinka most recently served as Chief Health Advisor to
Chairman Ron Wyden (D-OR) and the Senate Finance Committee. During her
time on the Committee, Jurinka oversaw passage of several major health
care bills including the repeal of the Sustainable Growth Rate (SGR),
the longest CHIP extension since the program’s enactment, and chronic
care reform; and led the development of arguments and strategy against
several attempts to repeal the Affordable Care Act. Jurinka spearheaded
negotiations with the Committee Republicans on prescription drug pricing
reform, resulting in Senate Finance Committee passage of the
Prescription Drug Pricing Reduction Act (PDPRA). Prior to her ten years
in the Senate, she worked for Congresswoman Melissa L. Bean (IL-8). Born
in Washington, DC and raised in Maryland, Elizabeth graduated from
University of Maryland with a bachelor’s degree in government and
received her master’s in government from Johns Hopkins University. She
lives in Washington, DC with her husband and two daughters.  
  
**Chad Metzler, Special Assistant to the President and Senate
Legislative Affairs Liaison**  
Chad Metzler was Legislative Director for U.S. Senator Angus King.
Before that he was the Staff Director for the United States Senate
Special Committee on Aging, and served as Legislative Director for U.S.
Senator Herb Kohl. Metzler is a native of Wisconsin and graduated from
the University of Chicago and earned a M.A. in Security Policy at George
Washington University’s Elliot School of International Affairs.  
  
**Jim Secreto, Special Assistant to the President and Director of
Confirmations**  
Jim Secreto previously served as Counsel to Senate Majority Leader Chuck
Schumer, Chief Counsel to the Senate Democratic Policy Committee, and
Chief Investigative Counsel to then-Ranking Member Tom Carper on Senate
Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee. During the
Obama-Biden Administration, he served as Deputy Associate Counsel in the
White House Counsel’s Office and in various roles at the U.S. Department
of Energy. Born and raised in Michigan, Secreto is a graduate of the
University of Michigan, Georgetown University Law Center, and the
Harvard Kennedy School.  
  
**<u>White House Military Office</u>**  
  
**Maju Varghese, Director of the White House Military Office**  
Maju Varghese most recently served as Executive Director of the
Presidential Inaugural Committee. Prior to that, Varghese served as
Chief Operating Officer and Senior Advisor on the Biden campaign from
the primaries through the general election. In the Obama-Biden
Administration, Varghese served in multiple roles, including Assistant
to the President for Management and Administration and Special Assistant
to the President and Deputy Director of Advance.  Varghese has also
served as a Senior Advisor at Dentons, Chief Operating Officer at the
Hub Project and as an Associate at Wade Clark Mulcahy in New York. The
son of immigrants from Kerala, India, Varghese was born in New York City
and raised in Elmont, New York. Varghese is a graduate of the University
of Massachusetts-Amherst and the Maurice A. Dean School of Law at
Hofstra University.  
  
**<u>Office of Presidential Correspondence</u>**  
  
**Eva Kemp, Director of Presidential Correspondence**  
Eva Kemp was Vice President of Program at SKDKnickerbocker, managing the
direct mail program for the Biden for President campaign. Prior to her
role on the campaign, she served as an IE Political Desk at the
Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee and Deputy States Paid Media
Director for Mike Bloomberg 2020. Kemp was previously the Louisiana
State Director at Democrats for Education Reform (DFER). She also served
as a Legislative Assistant for United States Senator Mary Landrieu
(D-LA) and Director of Policy and Planning at the Louisiana Department
of Education and Recovery School District. Born in Hammond, Louisiana,
Kemp is a graduate of Louisiana State University.  
  
**<u>Speechwriting</u>**  
  
**Amber Macdonald, Senior Presidential Speechwriter**  
Amber Macdonald served as Dr. Jill Biden’s speechwriter during the
Biden-Harris campaign. Prior to joining the campaign, she ran her own
speechwriting shop, writing for Dr. Biden and other high-profile
clients. During the Obama-Biden Administration, Macdonald served as
Senior Advisor and Director of Speechwriting for HHS Secretary Sylvia
Burwell and Deputy Director of Speechwriting for HHS Secretary Kathleen
Sebelius. Before joining the Administration, she was communications
director to Congressman Jim McDermott (WA-07), political director for
Howard Berman for Congress, and a field representative for California
Assemblymember Bob Blumenfield. Macdonald began her political career
working on reproductive health and local political campaigns in Los
Angeles, CA. Originally from Indiana, she graduated from Hanover College
with a B.A. in Theatre and English. She lives in Washington, D.C. with
her husband and twin daughters.  
  
**Jeff Nussbaum, Senior Presidential Speechwriter**  
Jeff Nussbaum most recently served as a partner at the speechwriting and
strategy firm West Wing Writers. He traveled with President Biden during
the 2008 Obama-Biden campaign and previously wrote for Vice President Al
Gore and Senate Majority Leader Tom Daschle. Nussbaum helped oversee
speechwriting operations for the 2020 Democratic National Convention and
was involved in the past six Democratic conventions. Nussbaum has
co-authored books with James Carville and former Senator Bob Graham and
has served as a creative consultant for the Kennedy Center Mark Twain
Prize for American Humor. Nussbaum was raised in Weston, Massachusetts
and is a graduate of Brown University. He is the proud father of two
daughters.

\###
