---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-03-11'
modified_time: 2021-03-11 18:42:30-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/03/11/fact-sheet-president-biden-to-announce-all-americans-to-be-eligible-for-vaccinations-by-may-1-puts-the-nation-on-a-path-to-get-closer-to-normal-by-july-4th/
published_time: 2021-03-11 18:42:29-05:00
title: "Fact Sheet: President\_Biden to Announce All Americans to be Eligible for\
  \ Vaccinations by May 1, Puts the Nation on a Path to Get Closer to Normal by July\_\
  4th"
---
 
*President Biden Implements Next Phase of National Strategy to Put the
Pandemic Behind Us; Will Direct States, Tribes, and Territories to Make
All Adults Eligible for Vaccine by May 1*

Today, in his first prime time address, President Biden will announce
the next phase of our war-time effort to vaccinate the U.S. population,
with the goal of getting the nation closer to normal by July
4<sup>th</sup>, Independence Day.

The President launched a new, comprehensive
[strategy](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/01/National-Strategy-for-the-COVID-19-Response-and-Pandemic-Preparedness.pdf)
to beat this pandemic on January 21, 2021.  In the subsequent 7 weeks,
we’ve delivered over 81 million vaccinations to Americans — today, more
people are once again able to visit their loved ones. There is more work
to do and today, the President is outlining the next phase of his whole
of government strategy to put the pandemic behind us.

Today, the President will announce that in the coming weeks, the
Administration will:

**<u>Make every adult in the U.S. eligible for vaccination no later than
May 1</u>.** Today, in the next phase of our vaccination effort, the
President will announce that he will direct states, Tribes, and
territories to make all adults eligible for the COVID-19 vaccine no
later than May 1st.  The White House COVID-19 Response Team has
concluded that our accelerated vaccination efforts will enable
prioritized vaccinations to be far enough along by end of April that all
eligibility restrictions for vaccinations can be lifted by May 1st.

Once all Americans are eligible to be vaccinated, the Administration
will ensure that every adult is actually able to get the vaccine by:

*<u>Increasing the number of places Americans can get vaccinated.</u>*
With the resources available through President Biden’s *American Rescue
Plan*, the Administration will ramp up efforts to create more places for
people to get vaccinated, reaching the hardest-hit and hardest to reach
populations.  

*Community Health Centers:* Today, the Administration announced that
over the next six weeks the Administration will deliver vaccines
directly to up to an **additional** 700 community health centers that
reach underserved communities, increasing the total number of
participating community health centers across the country to 950. These
health centers serve low income and minority patients, provide services
to rural communities and Tribal communities, and many will utilize
mobile vans to deliver services.

*Pharmacies*: The Administration will **double** the number of
pharmacies participating in the federal pharmacy program, making the
vaccine available at more than 20,000 pharmacies in locations convenient
to all Americans.  The Administration is directing pharmacies to expand
mobile operations into the hardest hit communities to reach more people.

*Community Vaccination Centers:*  The Administration will more than
**double** the number of federally-run mass vaccination centers, run by
FEMA, the U.S. military, and other federal agencies in partnership with
states, to ensure that we reach the hardest-hit communities in this
historic effort. Many of these sites will be the home base for mobile
units that will travel into local communities to provide vaccines
directly in underserved populations. With these mobile clinics, we’ll
work with states to make up to one-third of each site’s daily
vaccinations available directly in the hardest-hit neighborhoods. Thanks
to the American Rescue Plan, the Administration will also increase
support for state and local-run community vaccination centers. As a
result of these added investments community vaccination centers will be
capable of administering hundreds of thousands of shots a day, building
on the nearly 600 centers across the country already operating with
federal support.

*<u>Increasing the number of people providing and supporting
vaccinations.</u>* Today, President Biden will announce the deployment
of more than 4,000 active duty troops to support vaccination efforts,
bringing the total to over 6,000 in all. Tomorrow, the Administration
will expand the pool of qualified professionals able to administer shots
to include: Dentists, advanced and intermediate Emergency Medical
Technicians, Midwives, Optometrists, Paramedics, Physician Assistants,
Podiatrists, Respiratory Therapists, and Veterinarians, as well as
medical students, nursing students, and other healthcare students in the
previously listed professions under the Public Readiness and Emergency
Preparedness Act. The U.S. Department of Health & Human Services will
launch a new website to help individuals determine whether they are
eligible to sign up to volunteer to administer shots.

**<u>Providing tools to make it easier for individuals to find a
vaccine</u>***<u>.</u>* The President will announce steps to make it
easier for individuals to find a vaccine near them and address some of
the barriers to getting vaccinated.

*Find a Vaccination Website:* By May 1<sup>st</sup>, as vaccines are
available in more places, the Administration will launch a
federally-supported website that will show the locations near them that
have vaccines.

*1-800 Number:* To offer a tool for those who may lack Internet access,
we will launch a call center by May 1<sup>st</sup> to provide guidance
and assistance with finding a vaccine.

*Technical Support to Improve Existing State Websites:*  Since many
Americans use their state websites to schedule appointments, the
Administration will also deploy technology teams to states who need
assistance to improve their websites.

**Providing clear guidance to vaccinated Americans***<u>.</u>* Our
COVID-19 efforts will always be guided by science and the step-by-step
approaches to get Americans back to the important people and activities
in their lives that they have been missing. Today, the President
announced that the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) will
continue to issue clear guidance for individuals on what they can do
after being fully vaccinated.

*Additional CDC Guidance on Activities for the Vaccinated: * As we
approach July 4<sup>th</sup>, based on the best available science and
the pace of vaccinations, the CDC will provide public health guidance
for people as they travel, participate in small gatherings, and go to
work and houses of worship.

*Benefits of Vaccination:*  CDC guidance and other CDC messaging will
make the benefits of vaccination clear to encourage more Americans to
get vaccinated.  

**<u>Take New Steps to Reopen the Nation’s Schools</u>.** Reopening
schools safely is critical to getting closer to normal. Tonight,
President Biden laid out new steps in the school reopening effort. 

*<u>Ensure schools have the resources they need:</u>* Now that the
American Rescue Plan has passed, the nearly $130 billion to safely
reopen schools for in-person instruction will begin to be distributed
this month by the Department of Education. These dollars will help
schools pay for the critical supplies to implement the Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention’s (CDC) recommended mitigation
strategies, hire more staff – and avoid laying off current staff – to
accommodate the need for smaller class sizes due to physical distancing,
and support children’s academic, social and emotional needs after a
challenging year. 

*<u>Expand screening testing in schools:</u>*  We will immediately take
steps to help schools implement regular screening testing to assist them
in safely reopening classrooms, including through tests and test
supplies as well as implementation assistance to make it easier for
schools to adopt a testing program.  This month, HHS will award $650
million in an initial investment in expanding K-8 school testing and
testing in underserved congregate settings through new regional
coordinating centers that will identify existing testing capacity, match
it up to an area of need and support testing. This effort will begin to
bring more testing to teachers, staff, and students and serve as a
bridge to the comprehensive testing investment in the American Rescue
Plan that is critical to get the pandemic under control.

*<u>Provide guidance and support:</u>*  The Department of Education (ED)
will host a national Safe School Reopening Summit this month that will
bring together students, teachers, families, community organizations,
and state, local, or school leadership to provide assistance in
implementing the [CDC K-12 operational
strategy](https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/community/schools-childcare/operation-strategy.html)
for in-person instruction and supporting the academic, social, and
emotional well-being of students.  ED also is launching the “Safer
Schools and Campuses Best Practices Clearinghouse” called for in
President Biden’s Executive Order.  The Clearinghouse will highlight
lessons learned and best practices that can help schools and districts
identify opportunities to best utilize American Rescue Plan funds to
meet their individual needs. Next month, ED will release Volume 2 of its
K-12 COVID-19 Handbook for districts, schools, and educators with
strategies to address the impact of COVID-19 on students, educators, and
staff, especially for historically underserved students and communities
that have been hit hardest by the pandemic.

*<u>Help educators get vaccinated:</u>*  Throughout March, the
Administration will advance our efforts to support educators, school
staff and childcare workers getting vaccinated.  Last week, the
President announced that he is using the Administration’s authority to
direct states to make Pre-K-12 school staff and child care workers
eligible for vaccinations and that the Administration will prioritize
educators in the federal pharmacy program.  The President challenged all
50 states to get Pre-K-12 school staff and child care workers their
first shot by the end of this month. To help meet that goal, the
Administration is working with education leaders, advocates, child care
providers, community leaders, states and others to help reach educators
and to disseminate toolkits and other resources to help amplify the
importance of getting vaccinated.

**<u>Continue Effort to Combat Variants and Spread of COVID-19:</u>** As
we work to get more people vaccinated, we will continue to take steps to
combat the spread of variants including expanding testing and genomic
sequencing.

*<u>Expand testing to help stop the spread of COVID-19</u>*.  While
testing to date has been primarily focused on individuals with symptoms
and potential exposures – and this testing remains critical – we will
expand testing to ensure that we are identifying asymptomatic infection
early to stop the spread.  With the nearly $50 billion in testing
funding in the American Rescue Plan, the Administration will invest in
screening testing to help schools reopen safely, expand testing in
congregate settings like shelters for individuals experiencing
homelessness, prisons, and other settings where individuals live in
close quarters.  This funding also will help to close supply gaps and
address critical raw material shortages that have plagued the testing
supply chain.  And, with new investments in our manufacturing base, we
will be able to increase easier to use and more affordable point-of-care
and at-home testing.

*<u>Identify variants by expanding genomic sequencing</u><u>. </u>*
Thanks to the American Rescue Plan’s $1.75 billion investment, we will
dramatically expand our ability to sequence samples to identify, track,
and mitigate emerging variants.  This will build on the nearly $200
million that the Administration announced last month to grow the number
of samples sequenced from 7,000 to approximately 25,000.  Growing sample
sizes will improve our ability to detect emerging variants and work to
mitigate their spread.

\###
