---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-03-15'
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/03/15/president-biden-announces-his-intent-to-nominate-key-members-of-his-administration/
published_time: 2021-03-15 15:00:19-04:00
title: "President\_Biden Announces his Intent to Nominate Key Members of his\_Administration"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Joe Biden announced his intent to nominate
Christopher Fonzone as General Counsel of the Office of the Director of
National Intelligence, Janie Hipp as General Counsel of the Department
of Agriculture, Leslie Kiernan as General Counsel of the Department of
Commerce, and Todd Kim as Assistant Attorney General, Environment and
Natural Resources Division, Department of Justice.

**Christopher Fonzone, General Counsel of the Office of the Director of
National Intelligence**

Chris Fonzone is currently a partner in Sidley Austin’s Washington D.C.
office.  Before entering private practice, he served as Deputy Assistant
and Deputy Counsel to President Obama and the Legal Adviser to the
National Security Council, where he advised officials on a range of
legal issues related to national security and foreign policy.  Over the
course of his career, Fonzone has also served in legal roles at the
Department of Defense and the Department of Justice and as a Member of
the J. William Fulbright Foreign Scholarship Board.  He clerked for
Justice Stephen Breyer of the United States Supreme Court and Judge J.
Harvie Wilkinson III of the United States Court of Appeals for the
Fourth Circuit, and attended Cornell University and Harvard Law School.
   

**Janie Hipp, General Counsel of the Department of Agriculture**

Janie Simms Hipp, J.D., LL.M grew up in a small southeast Oklahoma
community, beginning her legal career in the 1980s during the tumultuous
farm financial crisis as farmers and ranchers faced problems unrivaled
since the Great Depression.  She served within the Oklahoma Attorney
General’s office while establishing a national presence advocating on
behalf of farmers and ranchers. Hipp received an LLM in Agriculture Law
from the University of Arkansas, joining what was to become a new
specialization focusing on the legal complexities of agriculture. She
taught agricultural law and food policy for decades while crisscrossing
the country working with farmers, ranchers and food businesses. In
addition to authoring numerous domestic publications on agriculture and
nutrition law, her work also includes international engagement on
matters related to food policy.  Her domestic and international law and
policy career spans over thirty-five years.  She has been recognized as
a Distinguished Alumni at two universities and has been recognized twice
by the American Agriculture Law Association. She is a member of the
Chickasaw Nation located in Oklahoma and resides in Arkansas with her
husband.

**Leslie Kiernan, General Counsel of the Department of Commerce**

Leslie B. Kiernan has decades of experience working with corporations,
boards, nonprofits, and governmental entities in litigation, regulatory
compliance, policy development, and enforcement matters. During the
Obama-Biden Administration, she served in the White House as Deputy
Counsel to the President from 2011-14, where she advised on a wide range
of compliance, risk-management, policy, and oversight issues. She also
worked with the White House Council on Women and Girls, and later served
as a senior advisor to the U.S. Mission to the United Nations. Recently,
Kiernan served as a senior advisor on the Biden-Harris Transition, and
she currently serves as Special Counsel in the Office of the White House
Counsel. In addition to her government service, Kiernan has over 20
years’ experience as a litigation partner at national law firms in
Washington, D.C. Since 2016, she has served on the board of Children’s
National Medical Center, where she is currently vice-chair. Kiernan is a
graduate of Brown University and Georgetown University Law Center. 

**Todd Kim, Assistant Attorney General, Environment and Natural
Resources Division, Department of Justice**

Todd Kim is the Deputy General Counsel for Litigation, Regulation, and
Enforcement at the U.S. Department of Energy.  His prior government
service includes more than seven years as an appellate attorney with the
Environment and Natural Resources Division of the U.S. Department of
Justice.  He was then appointed as the first Solicitor General of the
District of Columbia, a position he held for more than eleven years.  As
Solicitor General, Kim oversaw appellate litigation for the District of
Columbia government.  Kim has also been a partner at Reed Smith LLP.  He
began his legal career as a law clerk to Judge Judith Rogers of the U.S.
Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit.  He received his
A.B. with honors from Harvard College and his J.D. with honors from
Harvard Law School.

**\###**
