---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-03-26'
modified_time: 2021-03-26 09:31:51-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/03/26/president-biden-announces-his-intent-to-nominate-key-members-for-the-department-of-labor-department-of-transportation-equal-employment-opportunity-commission-department-of-veterans-affairs-and-app/
published_time: 2021-03-26 09:31:50-04:00
title: "President\_Biden Announces his Intent to Nominate Key Members for the Department\
  \ of Labor, Department of Transportation, Equal Employment Opportunity Commission,\
  \ Department of Veterans Affairs, and Appalachian Regional\_Commission"
---
 
Today, President Joe Biden announced his intent to nominate Seema Nanda
for Solicitor of the Department of Labor, Victoria Wassmer for Assistant
Secretary at Budget and Programs and Chief Financial Officer at the
Department of Transportation, Maryanne Donaghy for Assistant Secretary
for Accountability and Whistleblower Protection at the Department of
Veterans Affairs, Ronald Davis for Director of the United States Marshal
Service, Jocelyn Samuels for Member of the Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission, and Gayle Conelly Manchin for Federal Co-Chair of the
Appalachian Regional Commission.

**<span style="text-decoration: underline">Seema Nanda, Nominee for
Solicitor of the Department of Labor</span>**

Seema Nanda served as Chief of Staff, Deputy Chief of Staff, and Deputy
Solicitor at the U.S Department of Labor in the Obama – Biden
Administration. Before that, Nanda spent over 15 years in various roles
as a labor and employment attorney, mostly in government service. She
led the now named Office of Immigrant and Employee Rights Section of the
U.S. Justice Department’s Civil Rights Division, served as a supervisor
attorney in the Division of Advice at the National Labor Relations
Board, and worked as an associate in private practice in Seattle. After
the Obama – Biden Administration, Nanda led the Democratic National
Committee as CEO and served as COO and Executive Vice President at the
Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights. Nanda is presently a
fellow at Harvard Law School’s Labor and Worklife Program. She grew up
in Connecticut and is a graduate of Brown University and Boston College
Law School.

**<span style="text-decoration: underline">Victoria Wassmer, Nominee for
Assistant Secretary for Budget and Programs and Chief Financial Officer,
Department of Transportation</span>**

Victoria Wassmer is currently serving as the Deputy Assistant Secretary
for Finance and Budget at the Department of Transportation (DOT). She
joined the Department from Ernst & Young, where she served as a Managing
Director in the government and public sector practice. Previously, she
worked as the Director of Agency Operations for DC Government. Victoria
is no stranger to DOT, having served for many years as a Senior
Executive for the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA). Other senior
positions at the FAA include serving as the Acting Deputy Administrator
and Chief NextGen Officer as well as the Chief Financial Officer.

In 2010-2011, Victoria served as Vice President of Administration and
Finance at the Millennium Challenge Corporation in 2010-2011. Other
professional highlights include six years at the Office of Management
and Budget and work as a research assistant at the Development Bank of
South Africa after the first democratic elections in 1994. Victoria
holds a master’s degree in Public Policy from Harvard University and a
bachelor’s degree in political science from Bryn Mawr College. She lives
in Washington, DC with her husband, two sons and mother.

**<span style="text-decoration: underline">Maryanne Donaghy, Nominee for
Assistant Secretary for Accountability and Whistleblower Protection,
Department of Veterans Affairs</span>**

Maryanne Donaghy is an attorney and Senior Advisor at the Biden
Institute at the University of Delaware, her alma mater. She started her
career as a Certified Public Accountant, attended Temple University
School of Law in the evening, and practiced law in Philadelphia, PA. Ms.
Donaghy was a federal prosecutor for many years, and worked both in the
U.S. Attorneys’ Offices in the Eastern District of Pennsylvania and
Delaware, where she focused on white collar fraud. Ms. Donaghy lectured
extensively during her years as a federal prosecutor on financial fraud,
money laundering and corporate wrongdoing. Since leaving the Department
of Justice, Ms. Donaghy has counseled numerous organizations, including
non-profits, large corporations and governmental agencies, on response
to federal, state and congressional investigations, and on building
effective compliance programs. Among other responsibilities, she has
worked with a large University involving Title IX investigations,
counseled a large pharmaceutical company under federal and state
investigation involving marketing practices, and provided advice to a
hospital system regarding research misconduct allegations. Working with
the Inspector General of Philadelphia, Ms. Donaghy established a fully
functional Inspector General’s Office for the Philadelphia School
District. As an adjunct lecturer at the University of Delaware, Ms.
Donaghy has taught accounting, law and criminal justice courses. She has
participated in numerous pro bono and community service activities
through her career, including as a founding committee member of the
Veterans’ Committee for the Delaware State Bar Association. She is
married and the mother of three sons, one of who currently serves in the
Navy and another who is a Marine Corps veteran.

**<span style="text-decoration: underline">Ronald Davis, Nominee for
Director of the United States Marshal Service</span>**

Ronald L. Davis served in the Obama Administration as the Director of
the United States Department of Justice (DOJ), Office of Community
Oriented Policing Services (COPS Office). In December 2014, President
Barack Obama appointed Director Davis to serve as the Executive Director
of the President’s Task Force on 21st Century Policing. Prior to serving
as COPS Director, Davis had a distinguished career in law enforcement
serving over 8 years as Chief of Police of East Palo Alto (CA) and 20
years with the Oakland (CA) Police Department. Davis was recognized for
his innovative community efforts and for working collaboratively with
the community to dramatically reduce crime and violence in a city once
named as the murder capital of the United States. Davis served as a
member of the prestigious Harvard University and National Institute of
Justice Executive Sessions on Policing and Public Safety and is
currently a member of the National Academy of Sciences, Engineering and
Medicine “Reducing Racial Inequalities in the Criminal Justice System”
committee. Davis possesses a Bachelor’s degree from Southern Illinois
University and has completed the Senior Executives in State and Local
Government Program at Harvard University Kennedy School of Government.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">**Jocelyn Samuels, Nominee for
Member of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission**</span>

Jocelyn Samuels was Executive Director at the Williams Institute,
focusing on legal strategies to attain equality for sexual and gender
minorities before joining the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission.
From July 2014 until January 2017, Samuels was the Director of the
Office for Civil Rights at the U.S. Department of Health & Human
Services, where she oversaw civil rights enforcement with respect to
hospitals, healthcare providers, insurers, and human services agencies
and spearheaded development of regulations implementing Section 1557 of
the Affordable Care Act. Prior to her work at OCR, Samuels served as
Acting Assistant Attorney General for Civil Rights at the U.S.
Department of Justice, and held other positions as a political appointee
within the department. There, she oversaw work across a range of civil
rights issues and supervised litigation combating discrimination in
employment and education. Earlier in her career, Samuels served as the
Vice President for Education & Employment at the National Women’s Law
Center, was Labor Counsel to Senator Edward M. Kennedy, and spent ten
years as a senior policy attorney at the EEOC. Samuels graduated magna
cum laude, with Phi Beta Kappa honors, from Middlebury College and from
Columbia University Law School, where she was a Note Editor for The
Columbia Law Review.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">**Gayle Conelly Manchin,
Nominee for Federal Co-Chair of the Appalachian Regional
Commission**</span>

An educator from West Virginia, Gayle Manchin worked in Marion County
Schools, served on the faculty of Fairmont State University, and was the
Director of the university’s first Community Service Learning Program.
She directed the AmeriCorps Promise Fellows in WV and implemented a
statewide initiative, WV Partnerships to Assure Student Success. Manchin
previously served as West Virginia’s First Lady and was appointed to
serve as a member of the State Board of Education, serving her last two
years as President. She is the Chair of the Board for Reconnecting
McDowell, Inc., an AFT initiative serving rural WV, is a past president
of the Vandalia Rotary Club of Charleston, and as an Emeritus Member of
The Education Alliance. She also served as Cabinet Secretary for the
West Virginia Office of Education and the Arts.

Gayle Conelly Manchin attended West Virginia University, attaining her
Bachelor of Arts in Language Arts and Education and a Master of Arts in
Reading, and a second master’s specialization in Educational Technology
Leadership from Salem International University. While at WVU, Gayle met
and married Joe Manchin, III, elected as US Senator from West Virginia,
to fill the unexpired term of Senator Robert C Byrd in 2010, and
re-elected in 2012, and 2018 for full terms. Joe and Gayle have been
married for 53 years and have three children and ten grandchildren.

\###

## 
