---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-03-01'
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/03/01/u-s-mexico-joint-declaration/
published_time: 2021-03-01 18:59:26-05:00
title: U.S.-Mexico Joint Declaration
---
 
President Joe Biden hosted Mexican President Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador
on March 1 for a virtual bilateral meeting to review cooperation on
migration and to advance joint efforts to promote development in
Southern Mexico and the Northern Triangle of Central America. Building
on their positive January 22 conversation, the two Presidents reaffirmed
the enduring partnership between both countries, based on mutual
respect, and the extraordinary bond of family and friendship. Both
leaders committed to working together to combat the COVID-19 pandemic,
to reinvigorate economic cooperation, and to explore areas of
cooperation on climate change. They also reaffirmed the importance of
combating corruption and security cooperation.

**Bilateral and Multilateral Cooperation on Migration**

Both leaders recognized the many contributions of migrants to the
economic strength, cultural diversity, and innovative spirit of the
United States and Mexico, and committed to immigration policies that
recognize the dignity of migrants and the imperative of orderly, safe,
and regular migration. They agreed to collaborate on a joint effort to
address the root causes of regional migration, to improve migration
management, and to develop legal pathways for migration. Respectively,
they directed the Secretariat of Foreign Relations and the Department of
State to engage with the governments of neighboring countries, civil
society, and private sectors through policies that promote equitable and
sustainable economic development, combat corruption, and improve law
enforcement cooperation against transnational criminal smuggling
networks.

**Bilateral Cooperation for the Response and Recovery from COVID-19**

Both Presidents reaffirmed the importance of close collaboration to
respond to the COVID-19 pandemic, particularly in areas related to
economic and health cooperation.  They agreed to deepen cooperation on
pandemic response, including by enhancing public health capabilities,
information sharing, and the development of border policies. Recognizing
the strategic importance of the bilateral economic relationship, they
reaffirmed their shared commitment to the United States-Mexico-Canada
Agreement (USMCA) as a driver for North American prosperity and labor
rights in both countries by generating job opportunities, improving
worker protections, and preventing forced labor. Both leaders agreed to
strengthen supply chain resilience and security.  The leaders also
agreed to re-start the High Level Economic Dialogue to further these
aims.

**Bilateral Climate Change Cooperation**

The two Presidents highlighted the importance of tackling the climate
crisis and agreed to explore areas of cooperation. The leaders
acknowledged the benefits of addressing short-lived climate pollutants,
as well as the need to promote energy efficiency.  They discussed how
they can work together to support a successful outcome at this year’s
Climate Leaders’ Summit on April 22<sup>nd</sup> hosted by the United
States.

\###
