---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-03-19'
modified_time: 2021-03-19 15:15:49-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/03/19/president-biden-announces-his-intent-to-nominate-assistant-secretary-for-preparedness-and-response-department-of-health-and-human-services/
published_time: 2021-03-19 15:15:48-04:00
title: "President\_Biden Announces his Intent to Nominate Assistant Secretary for\
  \ Preparedness and Response, Department of Health and Human\_Services"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Joe Biden announced his intent to nominate
Dawn O’Connell to serve as Assistant Secretary for Preparedness and
Response, Department of Health and Human Services.

**<u>Dawn O’Connell, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for Preparedness
and Response, Department of Health and Human Services.</u>**

Dawn O’Connell is currently the Senior Counselor to the Secretary for
COVID-19. In this role, she coordinates the Department-wide response to
the pandemic. Prior to assuming this role, Dawn served on the Biden
Transition Team as the health cluster lead for the Nominations Team. She
was also the Director of the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness and
Innovation’s (CEPI) US Office.  As director she was responsible for
managing the broad spectrum of CEPI’s US and North American interests
including its relationships with US and North American-based
stakeholders, government entities, and industry partners.  She also
served as the executive director for CEPI’s Joint Coordination Group—a
roundtable of institutional partners who all have a vested interest in
the successful development and deployment of epidemic vaccines.

Prior to joining CEPI in June 2017, she was a Senior Counselor to
Secretary Sylvia Burwell at the U.S. Department of Health and Human
Services (HHS) during the Obama Administration. As Senior Counselor,
O’Connell advised Secretary Burwell on high-priority global health and
humanitarian issues, including infectious diseases, unaccompanied
children, and refugees. She worked with HHS leaders, the White House,
and other federal and international partners, to resolve key policy
challenges, lead implementation, and drive progress toward
Administration goals. O’Connell received her undergraduate degree in
literature from Vanderbilt University and her law degree from Tulane
University School of Law. She lives in Washington, D.C., with her
husband and two daughters.

\###
