---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-03-25'
modified_time: 2021-03-24 20:37:57-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/03/25/fact-sheet-biden-administration-announces-historic-10-billion-investment-to-expand-access-to-covid-19-vaccines-and-build-vaccine-confidence-in-hardest-hit-and-highest-risk-communities/
published_time: 2021-03-25 06:00:00-04:00
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden Administration Announces Historic $10 Billion Investment\
  \ to Expand Access to COVID-\u206019 Vaccines and Build Vaccine Confidence in Hardest-Hit\
  \ and Highest-Risk\_Communities"
---
 
*Administration Makes Essential Workers Eligible for Vaccinations at
Community Health Centers in Federal CHC Vaccination Program*  
  
*Administration Also Announces New Program to Vaccinate Dialysis
Patients Nationwide*

As part of President Biden’s continued efforts to ensure COVID-19
vaccines reach all people and all communities, the Biden-Harris
Administration is announcing a series of actions to expand access to
COVID-19 vaccines to the hardest-hit and highest-risk communities across
the country. With funding in large part from the American Rescue Plan,
the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) will invest
nearly $10 billion to expand access to vaccines and better serve
communities of color, rural areas, low-income populations, and other
underserved communities in the COVID-19 response. This funding will
expand access to vaccines for vulnerable populations and increase
vaccine confidence across the country.  
  
Equity is at the center of the Administration’s COVID-19 response. The
President has set up federally-run community vaccination centers in
hard-hit areas; sent vaccines directly to local pharmacies and Community
Health Centers that disproportionately serve vulnerable populations;
launched hundreds of mobile clinics to meet people where they are; and
created the COVID-19 Health Equity Task Force.  
  
These actions are garnering initial results. In the past two months, 60
percent of doses at federally-run Community Vaccination sites were
administered to people of color. In the federal retail pharmacy program,
45 percent of sites were located in zip codes with high social
vulnerability scores – a CDC index that uses 15 U.S. census variables to
identify communities that may need support. Finally, over 65 percent of
the federal doses allocated to Community Health Centers have been
administered to people of color.  
  
But there is more work to do.  That is why we’re doubling down on the
progress we are seeing through federal programs. Today’s announcements
include:  
  
**$6 Billion Investment in Community Health Centers to Expand Access to
Vaccines in Underserved Communities. **HHS will invest more than $6
billion from the American Rescue Plan into Community Health Centers
nationwide to expand COVID-19 vaccinations, testing, and treatment for
vulnerable populations; deliver preventive and primary health care
services to people at higher risk for COVID-19; and expand health
centers’ operational capacity during the pandemic and beyond, including
modifying and improving physical infrastructure and adding mobile units.
 The Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA), will provide
funding starting in April to nearly 1,400 centers across the country.
Community Health Centers serve 1 in 5 people living in rural
communities. More than 91% of health center patients are individuals or
families living at or below 200% of the Federal Poverty Guidelines, and
more than 60% are racial or ethnic minorities.  
  
For detailed information on how this funding is being distributed to
health centers nationwide, including state-by-state breakdowns and an
interactive health center funding map, please
visit: <https://bphc.hrsa.gov/program-opportunities/american-rescue-plan/awards>.  
  
**Expanding Eligibility for Vaccines to Patients Served by Community
Health Centers**. In addition to today’s historic investment in
Community Health Centers, Community Health Centers participating in the
federal Health Center COVID-19 Vaccine Program are invited to expand
eligibility to populations in the ACIP’s 1C eligibility tier – this
includes frontline essential workers and all persons 16 years and older
with high-risk medical conditions. This means approximately 83% of the
adults seen at Community Health Centers participating in the federal
Health Center COVID-19 Vaccine Program will now be eligible for
vaccinations. This follows the President’s announcement that all adults
will be eligible for vaccinations no later than May 1. Today’s news will
enable more people in need to receive vaccine doses.  
  
**$3 Billion to Strengthen Vaccine Confidence.** HHS, through the
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), will invest $3 billion
to support local efforts to increase vaccine uptake and equity. This
funding will go directly to states, territories, and some large cities,
enabling them to support local health departments and community-based
organizations in launching new programs and initiatives intended to
increase vaccine access, acceptance, and uptake. This funding will focus
on reaching communities hit hardest by the pandemic, including those
with a high social vulnerability index, minority communities, and rural
areas. The awards will be made in early April and administered through
CDC’s existing immunization cooperative agreement with 64 jurisdictions.
More than half of this funding is being made available thanks to the
American Rescue Plan.  
  
Examples of new programs this funding to jurisdictions could support
include:

-   A rural, faith-based organization could receive funding to conduct
    door-to-door outreach to schedule vaccination appointments in
    partnership with a community health center;
-   A food assistance and housing nonprofit in a high-poverty community
    could receive funding to conduct vaccine outreach and education, and
    to ensure its clients, including those with disabilities or limited
    mobility, have transportation to a FEMA-supported mass vaccination
    site;
-   Funding could support hiring or extending the hours of community
    health workers who do culturally-competent bilingual health
    outreach, so they can make sure uninsured people who are receiving
    care also have the information they need to get a free vaccination.

**Launch a Partnership to Vaccinate Dialysis Patients. **The
Administration is announcing a new partnership with dialysis clinics to
provide COVID-19 vaccinations to people receiving dialysis and health
care personnel in outpatient dialysis clinics. Kidney disease
disproportionately affects racial and ethnic minorities as 34% of
patients on dialysis are Black and 19% are Hispanic. People on dialysis
who contract COVID-19 often have severe health outcomes and have a 50%
hospitalization rate and a mortality rate between 20-30% from COVID-19.
There are about 500,000 people in the U.S. who receive regular dialysis
treatment. Through this partnership, the Administration will provide
vaccines directly to dialysis treatment centers so patients who
typically go three times a week for treatment are able to get vaccinated
at their place of care.  
  
**$330 Million to Invest in Community Health Workers. **HHS, through
CDC, will provide $300 million to jurisdictions for community health
worker services to support COVID-19 prevention and control, and an
additional $32 million for training, technical assistance, and
evaluation. This funding will be used to address disparities in access
to COVID-19 related services, such as testing, contact tracing, and
vaccinations, and it will help address factors that increase risk of
severe COVID-19 illness such as chronic diseases, pregnancy, and food
insecurity. For example, this funding could support nurses who are
serving hard-hit areas or local community health workers conducting
outreach efforts to make those at highest risk aware of vaccination
opportunities. This effort will benefit populations with increased
prevalence of COVID-19 and disproportionately impacted by long-standing
health disparities related to sociodemographic characteristics,
geographic regions, and economic strata.

\###
