---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-03-31'
modified_time: 2021-05-04 19:32:07-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/03/31/fact-sheet-the-american-jobs-plan/
published_time: 2021-03-31 05:00:00-04:00
title: "FACT SHEET: The American Jobs\_Plan"
---
 
While the American Rescue Plan is changing the course of the pandemic
and delivering relief for working families, this is no time to build
back to the way things were. This is the moment to reimagine and rebuild
a new economy. The American Jobs Plan is an investment in America that
will create millions of good jobs, rebuild our country’s infrastructure,
and position the United States to out-compete China. Public domestic
investment as a share of the economy has fallen by more than 40 percent
since the 1960s. The American Jobs Plan will invest in America in a way
we have not invested since we built the interstate highways and won the
Space Race.  
  
The United States of America is the wealthiest country in the world, yet
we rank 13<sup>th</sup> when it comes to the overall quality of our
infrastructure. After decades of disinvestment, our roads, bridges, and
water systems are crumbling. Our electric grid is vulnerable to
catastrophic outages. Too many lack access to affordable, high-speed
Internet and to quality housing. The past year has led to job losses and
threatened economic security, eroding more than 30 years of progress in
women’s labor force participation. It has unmasked the fragility of our
caregiving infrastructure. And, our nation is falling behind its biggest
competitors on research and development (R&D), manufacturing, and
training. It has never been more important for us to invest in
strengthening our infrastructure and competitiveness, and in creating
the good-paying, union jobs of the future.

Like great projects of the past, the President’s plan will unify and
mobilize the country to meet the great challenges of our time: the
climate crisis and the ambitions of an autocratic China. It will invest
in Americans and deliver the jobs and opportunities they deserve. But
unlike past major investments, the plan prioritizes addressing
long-standing and persistent racial injustice. The plan targets 40
percent of the benefits of climate and clean infrastructure investments
to disadvantaged communities. And, the plan invests in rural communities
and communities impacted by the market-based transition to clean energy.
Specifically, President Biden’s plan will:  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">**Fix highways, rebuild
bridges, upgrade ports, airports and transit systems**.</span> The
President’s plan will modernize 20,000 miles of highways, roads, and
main-streets. It will fix the ten most economically significant bridges
in the country in need of reconstruction. It also will repair the worst
10,000 smaller bridges, providing critical linkages to communities. And,
it will replace thousands of buses and rail cars, repair hundreds of
stations, renew airports, and expand transit and rail into new
communities.  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">**Deliver clean drinking water,
a renewed electric grid, and high-speed broadband to all
Americans.** </span>President Biden’s plan will eliminate all lead pipes
and service lines in our drinking water systems, improving the health of
our country’s children and communities of color. It will put hundreds of
thousands of people to work laying thousands of miles of transmission
lines and capping hundreds of thousands of orphan oil and gas wells and
abandoned mines. And, it will bring affordable, reliable, high-speed
broadband to every American, including the more than 35 percent of rural
Americans who lack access to broadband at minimally acceptable speeds.  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">**Build, preserve, and retrofit
more than two million homes and commercial buildings, modernize our
nation’s schools and child care facilities, and upgrade veterans’
hospitals and federal buildings**. </span>President Biden’s plan will
create good jobs building, rehabilitating, and retrofitting affordable,
accessible, energy efficient, and resilient housing, commercial
buildings, schools, and child care facilities all over the country,
while also vastly improving our nation’s federal facilities, especially
those that serve veterans.  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">**Solidify the infrastructure
of our care economy by creating jobs and raising wages and benefits for
essential home care workers**. </span>These workers – the majority of
whom are women of color – have been underpaid and undervalued for too
long. The President’s plan makes substantial investments in the
infrastructure of our care economy, starting by creating new and better
jobs for caregiving workers. His plan will provide home and
community-based care for individuals who otherwise would need to wait as
many as five years to get the services they badly need.  
  
**<span style="text-decoration: underline">Revitalize manufacturing,
secure U.S. supply chains, invest in R&D, and train Americans for the
jobs of the future</span>**. President Biden’s plan will ensure that the
best, diverse minds in America are put to work creating the innovations
of the future while creating hundreds of thousands of quality jobs
today. Our workers will build and make things in every part of America,
and they will be trained for well-paying, middle-class jobs.  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">**Create good-quality jobs that
pay prevailing wages in safe and healthy workplaces while ensuring
workers have a free and fair choice to organize, join a union, and
bargain collectively with their employers**. </span>By ensuring that
American taxpayers’ dollars benefit working families and their
communities, and not multinational corporations or foreign governments,
the plan will require that goods and materials are made in America and
shipped on U.S.-flag, U.S.-crewed vessels. The plan also will ensure
that Americans who have endured systemic discrimination and exclusion
for generations finally have a fair shot at obtaining good paying jobs
and being part of a union.  
  
Alongside his American Jobs Plan, President Biden is releasing a Made in
America Tax Plan to make sure corporations pay their fair share in taxes
and encourage job creation at home. A recent study found that 91 Fortune
500 companies paid $0 in federal taxes on U.S. income in 2018. Another
study found that the average corporation paid just 8 percent in taxes.
President Biden believes that profitable corporations should not be able
to get away with paying little or no tax by shifting jobs and profits
overseas. President Biden’s plan will reward investment at home, stop
profit shifting, and ensure other nations won’t gain a competitive edge
by becoming tax havens.  
  
The President’s American Jobs Plan is a historic public investment –
consisting principally of one-time capital investments in our nation’s
productivity and long-term growth. It will invest about 1 percent of GDP
per year over eight years to upgrade our nation’s infrastructure,
revitalize manufacturing, invest in basic research and science, shore up
supply chains, and solidify our care infrastructure. These are
investments that leading economists agree will give Americans good jobs
now and will pay off for future generations by leaving the country more
competitive and our communities stronger. In total, the plan will invest
about $2 trillion this decade. If passed alongside President Biden’s
Made in America corporate tax plan, it will be fully paid for within the
next 15 years and reduce deficits in the years after.  
  
**<span style="text-decoration: underline">BUILD WORLD-CLASS
TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE: FIX HIGHWAYS, REBUILD BRIDGES, AND
UPGRADE PORTS, AIRPORTS AND TRANSIT SYSTEMS</span>**  
  
President Biden is calling on Congress to make a historic and overdue
investment in our roads, bridges, rail, ports, airports, and transit
systems. The President’s plan will ensure that these investments produce
good-quality jobs with strong labor standards, prevailing wages, and a
free and fair choice to join a union and bargain collectively. These
investments will advance racial equity by providing better jobs and
better transportation options to underserved communities. These
investments also will extend opportunities to small businesses to
participate in the design, construction, and manufacturing of new
infrastructure and component parts. President Biden’s plan will deliver
infrastructure Americans can trust, because it will be resilient to
floods, fires, storms, and other threats, and not fragile in the face of
these increasing risks. President Biden is calling on Congress to:  
  
**<span style="text-decoration: underline">Transform our crumbling
transportation infrastructure:</span>**  
  
Decades of declining public investment has left our roads, bridges,
rail, and transit systems in poor condition, with a trillion-dollar
backlog of needed repairs. More than 35,000 people die in traffic
crashes on U.S. roads each year, and millions more are seriously and
often permanently injured. The United States has one of the highest
traffic fatality rates in the industrialized world, double the rate in
Canada and quadruple that in Europe. Across cities, suburbs, and rural
areas, President Biden’s plan will help parents get to work reliably and
affordably, reduce the impacts of climate change for our kids, and make
sure fewer families mourn the loss of a loved one to road crashes. His
investments will use more sustainable and innovative materials,
including cleaner steel and cement, and component parts Made in America
and shipped on U.S.-flag vessels with American crews under U.S. laws.
And, his infrastructure investments will mitigate socio-economic
disparities, advance racial equity, and promote affordable access to
opportunity.  
  
The President’s plan invests an additional $621 billion in
transportation infrastructure and resilience. It will:

-   **Repair American roads and bridges**. One in five miles, or 173,000
    total miles, of our highways and major roads are in poor condition,
    as well as 45,000 bridges. Delays caused by traffic congestion alone
    cost over $160 billion per year, and motorists are forced to pay
    over $1,000 every year in wasted time and fuel. The President is
    proposing a total increase of $115 billion to modernize the bridges,
    highways, roads, and main streets that are in most critical need of
    repair. This includes funding to improve air quality, limit
    greenhouse gas emissions, and reduce congestion. His plan will
    modernize 20,000 miles of highways, roads, and main streets, not
    only “fixing them first” but “fixing them right,” with safety,
    resilience, and all users in mind. It will fix the most economically
    significant large bridges in the country in need of reconstruction,
    and it will repair the worst 10,000 smaller bridges, including
    bridges that provide critical connections to rural and tribal
    communities. The plan includes $20 billion to improve road safety
    for all users, including increases to existing safety programs and a
    new Safe Streets for All program to fund state and local “vision
    zero” plans and other improvements to reduce crashes and fatalities,
    especially for cyclists and pedestrians.
-   **Modernize public transit**. Households that take public
    transportation to work have twice the commute time, and households
    of color are twice as likely to take public transportation. Our
    current transit infrastructure is inadequate – the Department of
    Transportation estimates a repair backlog of over $105 billion,
    representing more than 24,000 buses, 5,000 rail cars, 200 stations,
    and thousands of miles of track, signals, and power systems in need
    of replacement. This translates to service delays and disruptions
    that leave riders stranded and discourage transit use. President
    Biden is calling on Congress to invest $85 billion to modernize
    existing transit and help agencies expand their systems to meet
    rider demand. This investment will double federal funding for public
    transit, spend down the repair backlog, and bring bus, bus rapid
    transit, and rail service to communities and neighborhoods across
    the country. It will ultimately reduce traffic congestion for
    everyone.
-   **Invest in reliable passenger and freight rail service**. The
    nation’s rail networks have the potential to offer safe, reliable,
    efficient, and climate-friendly alternatives for moving people and
    freight. However, unlike highways and transit, rail lacks a
    multi-year funding stream to address deferred maintenance, enhance
    existing corridors, and build new lines in high-potential locations.
    There are currently projects just waiting to be funded that will
    give millions more Americans reliable and fast inter-city train
    service. President Biden is calling on Congress to invest $80
    billion to address Amtrak’s repair backlog; modernize the high
    traffic Northeast Corridor; improve existing corridors and connect
    new city pairs; and enhance grant and loan programs that support
    passenger and freight rail safety, efficiency, and electrification.
-   **Create good jobs electrifying vehicles**. U.S. market share of
    plug-in electric vehicle (EV) sales is only one-third the size of
    the Chinese EV market. The President believes that must change. He
    is proposing a $174 billion investment to win the EV market. His
    plan will enable automakers to spur domestic supply chains from raw
    materials to parts, retool factories to compete globally, and
    support American workers to make batteries and EVs. It will give
    consumers point of sale rebates and tax incentives to buy
    American-made EVs, while ensuring that these vehicles are affordable
    for all families and manufactured by workers with good jobs. It will
    establish grant and incentive programs for state and local
    governments and the private sector to build a national network of
    500,000 EV chargers by 2030, while promoting strong labor, training,
    and installation standards. His plan also will replace 50,000 diesel
    transit vehicles and electrify at least 20 percent of our yellow
    school bus fleet through a new Clean Buses for Kids Program at the
    Environmental Protection Agency, with support from the Department of
    Energy. These investments will set us on a path to 100 percent clean
    buses, while ensuring that the American workforce is trained to
    operate and maintain this 21<sup>st</sup> century infrastructure.
    Finally, it will utilize the vast tools of federal procurement to
    electrify the federal fleet, including the United States Postal
    Service.
-   **Improve ports, waterways, and airports. **The United States built
    modern aviation, but our airports lag far behind our competitors.
    According to some rankings, no U.S. airports rank in the top 25 of
    airports worldwide. Our ports and waterways need repair and
    reimagination too. President Biden is calling on Congress to invest
    $25 billion in our airports, including funding for the Airport
    Improvement Program, upgrades to FAA assets that ensure safe and
    efficient air travel, and a new program to support terminal
    renovations and multimodal connections for affordable, convenient,
    car-free access to air travel. President Biden is calling on
    Congress to invest an additional $17 billion in inland waterways,
    coastal ports, land ports of entry, and ferries, which are all
    essential to our nation’s freight. This includes a Healthy Ports
    program to mitigate the cumulative impacts of air pollution on
    neighborhoods near ports, often communities of color. These
    investments will position the United States as a global leader in
    clean freight and aviation.
-   **Redress historic inequities and build the future of transportation
    infrastructure. **The President’s plan for transportation is not
    just ambitious in scale, it is designed with equity in mind and to
    set up America for the future. Too often, past transportation
    investments divided communities – like the Claiborne Expressway in
    New Orleans or I-81 in Syracuse – or it left out the people most in
    need of affordable transportation options. The President’s plan
    includes $20 billion for a new program that will reconnect
    neighborhoods cut off by historic investments and ensure new
    projects increase opportunity, advance racial equity and
    environmental justice, and promote affordable access. The
    President’s plan will inspire basic research, like advanced
    pavements that recycle carbon dioxide, and “future proof”
    investments that will last decades to leave coming generations with
    a safe, equitable, and sustainable transportation system. And, the
    President’s plan will accelerate transformative investments, from
    pre-development through construction, turning “shovel worthy” ideas
    into “shovel ready” projects. This includes $25 billion for a
    dedicated fund to support ambitious projects that have tangible
    benefits to the regional or national economy but are too large or
    complex for existing funding programs.
-   **Invest resources wisely to deliver infrastructure projects that
    produce real results. **America lags its peers – including Canada,
    the U.K., and Australia – in the on-time and on-budget delivery of
    infrastructure, and is falling behind countries like China on
    overall investment. Delivering this historic investment will require
    partnership across government, unions, and industry, to produce
    meaningful outcomes for the American people – reliable
    transportation, safe water, affordable housing, healthy schools,
    clean electricity, and broadband for all. When President Biden
    managed the implementation of the Recovery Act, he insisted on the
    strongest possible accountability and transparency measures to
    ensure public dollars were invested efficiently and effectively.
    When Congress enacts the American Jobs Plan, the President will
    bring the best practices from the Recovery Act and models from
    around the world to break down barriers and drive implementation of
    infrastructure investments across all levels of government to
    realize the President’s vision of safe, reliable, and resilient
    infrastructure. Critically, in order to achieve the best outcomes on
    cost and performance for the American people, the Administration
    will support the state, local, and tribal governments delivering
    these projects through world-class training, technical assistance,
    and procurement best practices. In addition, the President’s plan
    will use smart, coordinated infrastructure permitting to expedite
    federal decisions while prioritizing stakeholder engagement,
    community consultation, and maximizing equity, health, and
    environmental benefits.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">**Make our infrastructure more
resilient:**  
</span>  
Millions of Americans feel the effects of climate change each year when
their roads wash out, airport power goes down, or schools get flooded.
Last year alone, the United States faced 22 extreme weather and
climate-related disaster events with losses exceeding $1 billion each –
a cumulative price tag of nearly $100 billion. Chronic underinvestment
in resilience has harmed American transportation infrastructure,
disrupting service, making travel conditions unsafe, causing severe
damage, and increasing maintenance and operating costs.  
  
In 2020, the United States endured 22 separate billion-dollar weather
and climate disasters, costing $95 billion in damages to homes,
businesses, and public infrastructure. In Louisiana, Hurricane Laura
caused $19 billion of damage, resulting in broken water systems and a
severely damaged electrical grid that impeded a quick recovery. Building
back better requires that the investments in this historic plan make our
infrastructure more resilient in the face of increasingly severe floods,
wildfires, hurricanes, and other risks. Every dollar spent on rebuilding
our infrastructure during the Biden administration will be used to
prevent, reduce, and withstand the impacts of the climate crisis.
Additionally, the President is calling for $50 billion in dedicated
investments to improve infrastructure resilience and:

-   **Safeguard critical infrastructure and services, and defend
    vulnerable communities. **People of color and low-income people
    are more likely to live in areas most vulnerable to flooding and
    other climate change-related weather events. They also are less
    likely to have the funds to prepare for and recover from extreme
    weather events. In the wake of Hurricane Harvey, Black and Hispanic
    residents were twice as likely as white residents to report
    experiencing an income shock with no recovery support. President
    Biden’s plan increases resilience in the most essential services,
    including the electric grid; food systems; urban infrastructure;
    community health and hospitals; and our roads, rail, and other
    transportation assets. His plan also targets investments to support
    infrastructure in those communities most vulnerable physically and
    financially to climate-driven disasters and to build back above
    existing codes and standards. The President’s plan will invest in
    vulnerable communities through a range of programs, including FEMA’s
    Building Resilient Infrastructure and Communities program, HUD’s
    Community Development Block Grant program, new initiatives at the
    Department of Transportation, a bipartisan tax credit to provide
    incentives to low- and middle-income families and to small
    businesses to invest in disaster resilience, and transition and
    relocation assistance to support community-led transitions for the
    most vulnerable tribal communities.
-   **Maximize the resilience of land and water resources to protect
    communities and the environment. **President Biden’s plan will
    protect and, where necessary, restore nature-based infrastructure –
    our lands, forests, wetlands, watersheds, and coastal and ocean
    resources. Families and businesses throughout the United States rely
    on this infrastructure for their lives and livelihoods. President
    Biden is calling on Congress to invest in protection from extreme
    wildfires, coastal resilience to sea-level rise and hurricanes,
    support for agricultural resources management and climate-smart
    technologies, and the protection and restoration of major land and
    water resources like Florida’s Everglades and the Great Lakes.
    Additionally, the President’s plan provides funding for the western
    drought crisis by investing in water efficiency and recycling
    programs, Tribal Water Settlements, and dam safety. President
    Biden’s plan will empower local leaders to shape these restoration
    and resilience project funds in line with the Outdoor Restoration
    Force Act.

**<span style="text-decoration: underline">REBUILD CLEAN DRINKING WATER
INFRASTRUCTURE, A RENEWED ELECTRIC GRID, AND HIGH-SPEED BROADBAND TO ALL
AMERICANS</span>**  
  
Too many American families drink polluted water, lack access to
affordable, high-speed internet, or experience power outages too often –
all while paying more for those services. President Biden’s plan invests
in the infrastructure necessary to finally deliver the water, broadband,
and electricity service that Americans deserve. Specifically, his plan
will:  
  
**<span style="text-decoration: underline">Ensure clean, safe drinking
water is a right in all communities:</span>**  
  
Across the country, pipes and treatment plants are aging and polluted
drinking water is endangering public health. An estimated six to ten
million homes still receive drinking water through lead pipes and
service lines. The President’s investments in improving water
infrastructure and replacing lead service lines will create good jobs,
including union and prevailing wage jobs. President Biden’s plan invests
$111 billion to:

-   **Replace 100 percent of the nation’s lead pipes and service
    lines. ** According to the CDC, there is no safe level of lead
    exposure for children. Lead can slow development and cause learning,
    behavior, and hearing problems in children, as well as lasting
    kidney and brain damage. President Biden believes that no American
    family should still be receiving drinking water through lead pipes
    and service lines. To eliminate all lead pipes and service lines in
    the country, he is calling on Congress to invest $45 billion in the
    Environmental Protection Agency’s Drinking Water State Revolving
    Fund and in Water Infrastructure Improvements for the Nation Act
    (WIIN) grants. In addition to reducing lead exposure in homes, this
    investment also will reduce lead exposure in 400,000 schools and
    childcare facilities.
-   **Upgrade and modernize America’s drinking water, wastewater, and
    stormwater systems, tackle new contaminants, and support clean water
    infrastructure across rural America. **Aging water systems threaten
    public health in thousands of communities nationwide. President
    Biden will modernize these systems by scaling up existing,
    successful programs, including by providing $56 billion in grants
    and low-cost flexible loans to states, Tribes, territories, and
    disadvantaged communities across the country. President Biden’s plan
    also provides $10 billion in funding to monitor and remediate PFAS
    (per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances) in drinking water and to
    invest in rural small water systems and household well and
    wastewater systems, including drainage fields.

**<span style="text-decoration: underline">Revitalize America’s digital
infrastructure:</span>**  
  
Generations ago, the federal government recognized that without
affordable access to electricity, Americans couldn’t fully participate
in modern society and the modern economy. With the 1936 Rural
Electrification Act, the federal government made a historic investment
in bringing electricity to nearly every home and farm in America, and
millions of families and our economy reaped the benefits. Broadband
internet is the new electricity. It is necessary for Americans to do
their jobs, to participate equally in school learning, health care, and
to stay connected. Yet, by one definition, more than 30 million
Americans live in areas where there is no broadband infrastructure that
provides minimally acceptable speeds. Americans in rural areas and on
tribal lands particularly lack adequate access. And, in part because the
United States has some of the highest broadband prices among OECD
countries, millions of Americans can’t use broadband internet even if
the infrastructure exists where they live. In urban areas as well, there
is a stark digital divide: a much higher percentage of White families
use home broadband internet than Black or Latino families. The last year
made painfully clear the cost of these disparities, particularly for
students who struggled to connect while learning remotely, compounding
learning loss and social isolation for those students.  
The President believes we can bring affordable, reliable, high-speed
broadband to every American through a historic investment of $100
billion. That investment will:

-   **Build high-speed broadband infrastructure to reach 100 percent
    coverage. **The President’s plan prioritizes building “future proof”
    broadband infrastructure in unserved and underserved areas so that
    we finally reach 100 percent high-speed broadband coverage. It also
    prioritizes support for broadband networks owned, operated by, or
    affiliated with local governments, non-profits, and
    co-operatives—providers with less pressure to turn profits and with
    a commitment to serving entire communities. Moreover, it ensures
    funds are set aside for infrastructure on tribal lands and that
    tribal nations are consulted in program administration. Along the
    way, it will create good-paying jobs with labor protections and the
    right to organize and bargain collectively.
-   **Promote transparency and competition.** President Biden’s plan
    will promote price transparency and competition among internet
    providers, including by lifting barriers that prevent
    municipally-owned or affiliated providers and rural electric co-ops
    from competing on an even playing field with private providers, and
    requiring internet providers to clearly disclose the prices they
    charge.
-   **Reduce the cost of broadband internet service and promote more
    widespread adoption.** President Biden believes that building out
    broadband infrastructure isn’t enough. We also must ensure that
    every American who wants to can afford high-quality and reliable
    broadband internet. While the President recognizes that individual
    subsidies to cover internet costs may be needed in the short term,
    he believes continually providing subsidies to cover the cost of
    overpriced internet service is not the right long-term solution for
    consumers or taxpayers. Americans pay too much for the internet –
    much more than people in many other countries – and the President is
    committed to working with Congress to find a solution to reduce
    internet prices for all Americans, increase adoption in both rural
    and urban areas, hold providers accountable, and save taxpayer
    money.  
     

**<span style="text-decoration: underline">Reenergize America’s power
infrastructure:</span>**  
  
As the recent Texas power outages demonstrated, our aging electric grid
needs urgent modernization. A Department of Energy study found that
power outages cost the U.S. economy up to $70 billion annually. The
President’s plan will create a more resilient grid, lower energy bills
for middle class Americans, improve air quality and public health
outcomes, and create good jobs, with a choice to join a union, on the
path to achieving 100 percent carbon-free electricity by 2035. President
Biden is calling on Congress to invest $100 billion to:

-   **Build a more resilient electric transmission system. **Through
    investments in the grid, we can move cheaper, cleaner electricity to
    where it is needed most. This starts with the creation of a targeted
    investment tax credit that incentivizes the buildout of at least 20
    gigawatts of high-voltage capacity power lines and mobilizes tens of
    billions in private capital off the sidelines – right away. In
    addition, President Biden’s plan will establish a new Grid
    Deployment Authority at the Department of Energy that allows for
    better leverage of existing rights-of-way – along roads and railways
    – and supports creative financing tools to spur additional high
    priority, high-voltage transmission lines. These efforts will create
    good-paying jobs for union laborers, line workers, and electricians,
    in addition to creating demand for American-made building materials
    and parts.
-   **Spur jobs modernizing power generation and delivering clean
    electricity. **President Biden is proposing a ten-year extension and
    phase down of an expanded direct-pay investment tax credit and
    production tax credit for clean energy generation and storage. These
    credits will be paired with strong labor standards to ensure the
    jobs created are good-quality jobs with a free and fair choice to
    join a union and bargain collectively. President Biden’s plan will
    mobilize private investment to modernize our power sector. It also
    will support state, local, and tribal governments choosing to
    accelerate this modernization through complementary policies – like
    clean energy block grants that can be used to support clean energy,
    worker empowerment, and environmental justice. And, it will use the
    federal government’s incredible purchasing power to drive clean
    energy deployment across the market by purchasing 24/7 clean power
    for federal buildings. To ensure that we fully take advantage of the
    opportunity that modernizing our power sector presents, President
    Biden will establish an Energy Efficiency and Clean Electricity
    Standard (EECES) aimed at cutting electricity bills and electricity
    pollution, increasing competition in the market, incentivizing more
    efficient use of existing infrastructure, and continuing to leverage
    the carbon pollution-free energy provided by existing sources like
    nuclear and hydropower. All of this will be done while ensuring
    those facilities meet robust and rigorous standards for worker,
    public, and environmental safety as well as environmental justice –
    and all while moving toward 100 percent carbon-pollution free power
    by 2035.
-   **Put the energy industry to work plugging orphan oil and gas wells
    and cleaning up abandoned mines. **Hundreds of thousands of former
    orphan oil and gas wells and abandoned mines pose serious safety
    hazards, while also causing ongoing air, water, and other
    environmental damage. Many of these old wells and mines are located
    in rural communities that have suffered from years of disinvestment.
    President Biden’s plan includes an immediate up-front investment of
    $16 billion that will put hundreds of thousands to work in union
    jobs plugging oil and gas wells and restoring and reclaiming
    abandoned coal, hardrock, and uranium mines. In addition to creating
    good jobs in hard-hit communities, this investment will reduce the
    methane and brine that leaks from these wells, just as we invest in
    reducing leaks from other sources like aging pipes and distribution
    systems.
-   **Remediate and redevelop idle real property, and spur the buildout
    of critical physical, social, and civic infrastructure in distressed
    and disadvantaged communities. **In thousands of rural and urban
    communities around the country, hundreds of thousands of former
    industrial and energy sites are now idle – sources of blight and
    pollution. Through a $5 billion investment in the remediation and
    redevelopment of these Brownfield and Superfund sites, as well as
    related economic and workforce development, President Biden’s plan
    will turn this idle real property into new hubs of economic growth
    and job creation. But it’s not enough to redevelop old
    infrastructure. President Biden’s plan also will bring these
    communities new critical physical, social, and civic infrastructure.
    This means investing in the Economic Development Agency’s Public
    Works program (while lifting the cap of $3 million on projects) and
    in “Main Street” revitalization efforts through HUD and USDA.
    President Biden’s plan also will spur targeted sustainable, economic
    development efforts through the Appalachian Regional Commission’s
    POWER grant program, Department of Energy retooling grants for idled
    factories (through the Section 132 program), and dedicated funding
    to support community-driven environmental justice efforts – such as
    capacity and project grants to address legacy pollution and the
    cumulative impacts experienced by frontline and fenceline
    communities.
-   **Build next generation industries in distressed
    communities. **President Biden believes that the market-based shift
    toward clean energy presents enormous opportunities for the
    development of new markets and new industries. For example, by
    pairing an investment in 15 decarbonized hydrogen demonstration
    projects in distressed communities with a new production tax credit,
    we can spur capital-project retrofits and installations that bolster
    and decarbonize our industry. The President’s plan also will
    establish ten pioneer facilities that demonstrate carbon capture
    retrofits for large steel, cement, and chemical production
    facilities, all while ensuring that overburdened communities are
    protected from increases in cumulative pollution. In addition, in
    line with the bipartisan SCALE Act, his plan will support
    large-scale sequestration efforts that leverage the best science and
    prioritize community engagement. And to accelerate responsible
    carbon capture deployment and ensure permanent storage, President
    Biden’s plan reforms and expands the bipartisan Section 45Q tax
    credit, making it direct pay and easier to use for
    hard-to-decarbonize industrial applications, direct air capture, and
    retrofits of existing power plants.
-   **Mobilize the next generation of conservation and resilience
    workers. **This $10 billion investment will put a new, diverse
    generation of Americans to work conserving our public lands and
    waters, bolstering community resilience, and advancing environmental
    justice through a new Civilian Climate Corps, all while placing
    good-paying union jobs within reach for more Americans.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">**BUILD, PRESERVE, AND RETROFIT
MORE THAN TWO MILLION HOMES AND COMMERCIAL BUILDINGS; MODERNIZE OUR
NATION’S SCHOOLS, COMMUNITY COLLEGES, AND EARLY LEARNING FACILITIES; AND
UPGRADE VETERANS’ HOSPITALS AND FEDERAL BUILDINGS**  
</span>  
There is a severe shortage of affordable housing options in America, and
the American Society of Civil Engineers gives our school infrastructure
a “D+.” President Biden believes we must invest in building and
upgrading modern, resilient, and energy-efficient homes and buildings,
including our nation’s schools, early learning facilities, veterans’
hospitals and other federal buildings, and in the process, employ
American workers in jobs with good wages and benefits. President Biden’s
plan will:  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">**Build, preserve, and retrofit
more than two million homes and commercial buildings to address the
affordable housing crisis:**  
</span>  
There is a severe shortage of affordable housing options in America.
Millions of families pay more than half their income on rent, and home
energy costs are a significant concern for American renters as well.
And, across the country, people are struggling to purchase their first
home.  
  
The President’s plan invests $213 billion to produce, preserve, and
retrofit more than two million affordable and sustainable places to
live. It pairs this investment with an innovative new approach to
eliminate state and local exclusionary zoning laws, which drive up the
cost of construction and keep families from moving to neighborhoods with
more opportunities for them and their kids. The President’s plan will
help address the growing cost of rent and create jobs that pay
prevailing wages, including through project labor agreements with a free
and fair choice to join a union and bargain collectively.  
  
President Biden is calling on Congress to:

-   **Produce, preserve, and retrofit more than a million affordable,
    resilient, accessible, energy efficient, and electrified housing
    units.** Through targeted tax credits, formula funding, grants, and
    project-based rental assistance, President Biden’s plan will extend
    affordable housing rental opportunities to underserved communities
    nationwide, including rural and tribal areas.
-   **Build and rehabilitate more than 500,000 homes for low- and
    middle-income homebuyers. **President Biden is calling on Congress
    to take immediate steps to spur the construction and rehabilitation
    of homes for underserved communities. Specifically, he is calling on
    Congress to pass the innovative, bipartisan Neighborhood Homes
    Investment Act (NHIA). Offering $20 billion worth of NHIA tax
    credits over the next five years will result in approximately
    500,000 homes built or rehabilitated, creating a pathway for more
    families to buy a home and start building wealth.
-   **Eliminate exclusionary zoning and harmful land use policies. **For
    decades, exclusionary zoning laws – like minimum lot sizes,
    mandatory parking requirements, and prohibitions on multifamily
    housing – have inflated housing and construction costs and locked
    families out of areas with more opportunities. President Biden is
    calling on Congress to enact an innovative, new competitive grant
    program that awards flexible and attractive funding to jurisdictions
    that take concrete steps to eliminate such needless barriers to
    producing affordable housing.
-   **Address longstanding public housing capital needs.** Years of
    disinvestment have left our public housing in disrepair. President
    Biden is calling on Congress to invest $40 billion to improve the
    infrastructure of the public housing system in America. This funding
    will address critical life-safety concerns, mitigate imminent
    hazards to residents, and undertake energy efficiency measures which
    will significantly reduce ongoing operating expenses. These
    improvements will disproportionately benefit women, people of color,
    and people with disabilities.
-   **Put union building trade workers to work upgrading homes and
    businesses to save families money.** President Biden’s plan will
    upgrade homes through block grant programs, the Weatherization
    Assistance Program, and by extending and expanding home and
    commercial efficiency tax credits. President Biden’s plan also will
    establish a $27 billion Clean Energy and Sustainability Accelerator
    to mobilize private investment into distributed energy resources;
    retrofits of residential, commercial and municipal buildings; and
    clean transportation. These investments have a particular focus on
    disadvantaged communities that have not yet benefited from clean
    energy investments.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">**Modernize our nation’s
schools and early learning facilities:**  
</span>  
Too many students attend schools and child care centers that are
run-down, unsafe, and pose health risks. These conditions are dangerous
for our kids and exist disproportionately in schools with a high
percentage of low-income students and students of color. And even before
COVID-19, 43 percent of parents reported struggling to find an adequate
child care facility for their children. President Biden is calling on
Congress to:

-   **Modernize our public schools. **President Biden believes we can’t
    close the opportunity gap if low-income kids go to schools in
    buildings that undermine health and safety, while wealthier students
    get access to safe buildings with labs and technology that prepare
    them for the jobs of the future. The President’s plan invests $100
    billion to upgrade and build new public schools, through $50 billion
    in direct grants and an additional $50 billion leveraged through
    bonds. These funds will first go toward making sure our schools are
    safe and healthy places of learning for our kids and work for
    teachers and other education professionals, for example by improving
    indoor air quality and ventilation. As we make our schools safer, we
    also will invest in cutting-edge, energy-efficient and electrified,
    resilient, and innovative school buildings with technology and labs
    that will help our educators prepare students to be productive
    workers and valued students. Under the President’s plan, better
    operating school facilities will reduce their greenhouse gas
    emissions and also will become environments of community resilience
    with green space, clean air, and safe places to gather, especially
    during emergencies. Funds also will be provided to improve our
    school kitchens, so they can be used to better prepare nutritious
    meals for our students and go green by reducing or eliminating the
    use of paper plates and other disposable materials.
-   **Investing in community college infrastructure**. Investing in
    community college facilities and technology helps protect the health
    and safety of students and faculty, address education deserts
    (particularly for rural communities), grow local economies, improve
    energy efficiency and resilience, and narrow funding inequities in
    the short-term, as we rebuild our higher education finance system
    for the long-run. President Biden is calling on Congress to invest
    $12 billion to address these needs. States will be responsible for
    using the dollars to address both existing physical and
    technological infrastructure needs at community colleges and
    identifying strategies to address access to community college in
    education deserts.
-   **Upgrade child care facilities and build new supply in high need
    areas.** Lack of access to child care makes it harder for parents,
    especially mothers, to fully participate in the workforce. In areas
    with the greatest shortage of child care slots, women’s labor force
    participation is about three percentage points less than in areas
    with a high capacity of child care slots, hurting families and
    hindering U.S. growth and competitiveness. President Biden is
    calling on Congress to provide $25 billion to help upgrade child
    care facilities and increase the supply of child care in areas that
    need it most. Funding would be provided through a Child Care Growth
    and Innovation Fund for states to build a supply of infant and
    toddler care in high-need areas. President Biden also is calling for
    an expanded tax credit to encourage businesses to build child care
    facilities at places of work. Employers will receive 50 percent of
    the first $1 million of construction costs per facility so that
    employees can enjoy the peace of mind and convenience that comes
    with on-site child care. These investments will provide safe,
    accessible, energy efficient, high-quality learning environments for
    providers to teach and care for children. Public investments in
    schools and childcare improves children’s outcomes—the foundation
    for future productivity gains. In classrooms with
    poor [ventilation](https://www.academia.edu/download/48805773/j.1600-0668.2004.00235.x20160913-16864-4x9hmc.pdf),
    for example,
    student [absences](https://ajph.aphapublications.org/doi/pdfplus/10.2105/AJPH.2009.165324) are
    10 to 20 percent higher.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">**Upgrade VA hospitals and
federal buildings:**  
</span>  
The federal government operates office buildings, courthouses, and other
facilities in every state, where millions of workers serve the public
from outdated, inefficient, and sometimes unsafe working conditions.
While the median age of U.S. private sector hospitals is roughly 11
years, the Veterans Affairs’ hospital portfolio has a median age of 58.
The President believes our veterans deserve state-of-the-art hospitals
and care. President Biden’s plan provides $18 billion for the
modernization of Veterans Affairs hospitals and clinics. President
Biden’s plan also invests $10 billion in the modernization,
sustainability, and resilience of federal buildings, including through a
bipartisan Federal Capital Revolving Fund to support investment in a
major purchase, construction or renovation of Federal facilities. And,
President Biden’s plan utilizes the vast tools of federal procurement to
purchase low carbon materials for construction and clean power for these
newly constructed VA hospitals and federal buildings.  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">**SOLIDIFY THE INFRASTRUCTURE
OF OUR CARE ECONOMY BY CREATING JOBS AND RAISING WAGES AND BENEFITS FOR
ESSENTIAL HOME CARE WORKERS**  
</span>Even before COVID-19, our country was in the midst of a
caregiving crisis. In addition to caring for children, families feel the
financial burden of caring for aging relatives and family members with
disabilities, and there is a financial strain for people with
disabilities living independently to ensure that they are getting care
in their homes. At the same time, hundreds of thousands of people who
need better care are unable to access it, even though they qualify under
Medicaid. In fact, it can take years for these individuals to get the
services they badly need. Aging relatives and people with disabilities
deserve better. They deserve high-quality services and support that meet
their unique needs and personal choices.  
Caregivers – who are disproportionally women of color – have been
underpaid and undervalued for far too long. Wages for essential home
care workers are approximately $12 per hour, putting them among the
lowest paid workers in our economy. In fact, one in six workers in this
sector live in poverty. President Biden is calling on Congress to make
substantial investments in the infrastructure of care in our country.
Specifically, he is calling on Congress to put $400 billion toward
expanding access to quality, affordable home- or community-based care
for aging relatives and people with disabilities. These investments will
help hundreds of thousands of Americans finally obtain the long-term
services and support they need, while creating new jobs and offering
caregiving workers a long-overdue raise, stronger benefits, and an
opportunity to organize or join a union and collectively bargain.
Research shows
that [increasing](https://www.ltsscenter.org/wp-content/uploads/2020/09/Making-Care-Work-Pay-Report-FINAL.pdf) the
pay of direct care workers greatly enhances workers’ financial security,
improves productivity, and increases the quality of care offered.
Another [study](https://equitablegrowth.org/wp-content/uploads/2020/06/060420-WP-Worker-earnings-service-quality-and-firm-profitability-Ruffini.pdf) showed
that increased pay for care workers prevented deaths, reduced the number
of health violations, and lowered the cost of preventative care.   
  
President Biden’s plan will:

-   **Expand access to long-term care services under
    Medicaid.** President Biden believes more people should have the
    opportunity to receive care at home, in a supportive community, or
    from a loved one. President Biden’s plan will expand access to home
    and community-based services (HCBS) and extend the longstanding
    Money Follows the Person program that supports innovations in the
    delivery of long-term care.
-   **Put in place an infrastructure to create good middle-class jobs
    with a free and fair choice to join a union. **The HCBS expansion
    under Medicaid can support well-paying caregiving jobs that include
    benefits and the ability to collectively bargain, building state
    infrastructure to improve the quality of services and to support
    workers. This will improve wages and quality of life for essential
    home health workers and yield significant economic benefits for
    low-income communities and communities of color.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">**INVEST IN R&D, REVITALIZE
MANUFACTURING AND SMALL BUSINESSES, AND TRAIN AMERICANS FOR THE JOBS OF
THE FUTURE**  
</span>  
Half the jobs in our high growth, high wage sectors are concentrated in
just 41 counties, locking millions of Americans out of a shot at a
middle-class job. President Biden believes that, even in the face of
automation and globalization, America can and must retain well-paid
union jobs and create more of them all across the country. U.S.
manufacturing was the Arsenal of Democracy in World War II and must be
part of the Arsenal of American Prosperity today, helping fuel an
economic recovery for working families. From the invention of the
semiconductor to the creation of the Internet, new engines of economic
growth have emerged due to public investments that support research,
commercialization, and strong supply chains. President Biden is calling
on Congress to make smart investments in research and development,
manufacturing and regional economic development, and in workforce
development to give our workers and companies the tools and training
they need to compete on the global stage. Specifically, President Biden
is calling on Congress to:

<span style="text-decoration: underline">**Invest in R&D and the
technologies of the future:**  
</span>Public investments in R&D lay the foundation for the future
breakthroughs that over time yield new businesses, new jobs, and more
exports. However, we need more investment if we want to maintain our
economic edge in today’s global economy. We are one of the few major
economies whose public investments in research and development have
declined as a percent of GDP in the past 25 years. Countries like China
are investing aggressively in R&D, and China now ranks number two in the
world in R&D expenditures. In addition, barriers to careers in
high-innovation sectors remain significant. We must do more to improve
access to the higher wage sectors of our economy. In order to win the
21<sup>st</sup> century economy, President Biden believes America must
get back to investing in the researchers, laboratories, and universities
across our nation. But this time, we must do so with a commitment to
lifting up workers and regions who were left out of past investments. He
is calling on Congress to make an $180 billion investment that will:

-   **Advance U.S. leadership in critical technologies and upgrade
    America’s research infrastructure. **U.S. leadership in new
    technologies—from artificial intelligence to biotechnology to
    computing—is critical to both our future economic competitiveness
    and our national security. Based on bipartisan proposals, President
    Biden is calling on Congress to invest $50 billion in the National
    Science Foundation (NSF), creating a technology directorate that
    will collaborate with and build on existing programs across the
    government. It will focus on fields like semiconductors and advanced
    computing, advanced communications technology, advanced energy
    technologies, and biotechnology. He also is calling on Congress to
    provide $30 billion in additional funding for R&D that spurs
    innovation and job creation, including in rural areas. His plan also
    will invest $40 billion in upgrading research infrastructure in
    laboratories across the country, including brick-and-mortar
    facilities and computing capabilities and networks. These funds
    would be allocated across the federal R&D agencies, including at the
    Department of Energy. Half of those funds will be reserved for
    Historically Black College and Universities (HBCUs) and other
    Minority Serving Institutions, including the creation of a new
    national lab focused on climate that will be affiliated with an
    HBCU.
-   **Establish the United States as a leader in climate science,
    innovation, and R&D**. The President is calling on Congress to
    invest $35 billion in the full range of solutions needed to achieve
    technology breakthroughs that address the climate crisis and
    position America as the global leader in clean energy technology and
    clean energy jobs. This includes launching ARPA-C to develop new
    methods for reducing emissions and building climate resilience, as
    well as expanding across-the-board funding for climate research. In
    addition to a $5 billion increase in funding for other
    climate-focused research, his plan will invest $15 billion in
    demonstration projects for climate R&D priorities, including
    utility-scale energy storage, carbon capture and storage, hydrogen,
    advanced nuclear, rare earth element separations, floating offshore
    wind, biofuel/bioproducts, quantum computing, and electric vehicles,
    as well as strengthening U.S. technological leadership in these
    areas in global markets.
-   **Eliminate racial and gender inequities in research and development
    and science, technology, engineering, and math. **Discrimination
    leads to
    less [innovation](https://lisadcook.net/wp-content/uploads/2014/02/pats_paper17_1013_final_web.pdf):
    one
    study [found](http://www.equality-of-opportunity.org/assets/documents/inventors_summary.pdf) that
    innovation in the United States will quadruple if women, people of
    color, and children from low-income families invented at the rate of
    groups who are not held back by discrimination and structural
    barriers. Persistent inequities in access to R&D dollars and to
    careers in innovation industries prevents the U.S. economy from
    reaching its full potential. President Biden is calling on Congress
    to make a $10 billion R&D investment at HBCUs and other MSIs. He
    also is calling on Congress to invest $15 billion in creating up to
    200 centers of excellence that serve as research incubators at HBCUs
    and other MSIs to provide graduate fellowships and other
    opportunities for underserved populations, including through
    pre-college programs.

**<span style="text-decoration: underline">Retool and revitalize
American manufacturers and small businesses:</span>**  
The U.S. manufacturing sector accounts for 70 percent of business R&D
expenditure, 30 percent of productivity growth, and 60 percent of
exports. Manufacturing is a critical node that helps convert research
and innovation into sustained economic growth. Workers on the factory
floor work hand-in-hand with engineers and scientists to sharpen and
maintain our competitive edge. While manufacturing jobs have been a
ladder to middle-class life, we have let our industrial heartland be
hollowed out, with quality jobs moving abroad or to regions with lower
wages and fewer protections for workers. President Biden is calling on
Congress to invest $300 billion in order to:

-   **Strengthen manufacturing supply chains for critical
    goods. **President Biden believes we must produce, here at home, the
    technologies and goods that meet today’s challenges and seize
    tomorrow’s opportunities. President Biden is calling on Congress to
    invest $50 billion to create a new office at the Department of
    Commerce dedicated to monitoring domestic industrial capacity and
    funding investments to support production of critical goods. The
    President also is calling on Congress to invest $50 billion in
    semiconductor manufacturing and research, as called for in the
    bipartisan CHIPS Act.
-   **Protect Americans from future pandemics. **This funding provides
    $30 billion over 4 years to create U.S. jobs and prevent the severe
    job losses caused by pandemics through major new investments in
    medical countermeasures manufacturing; research and development; and
    related biopreparedness and biosecurity. This includes investments
    to shore up our nation’s strategic national stockpile; accelerate
    the timeline to research, develop and field tests and therapeutics
    for emerging and future outbreaks; accelerate response time by
    developing prototype vaccines through Phase I and II trials, test
    technologies for the rapid scaling of vaccine production, and ensure
    sufficient production capacity in an emergency; enhance U.S.
    infrastructure for biopreparedness and investments in biosafety and
    biosecurity; train personnel for epidemic and pandemic response; and
    onshore active pharmaceutical ingredients.  COVID-19 has claimed
    over 500,000 American lives and cost trillions of dollars,
    demonstrating the devastating and increasing risk of pandemics and
    other biological threats. Over the past two decades, outbreaks of
    SARS, Ebola, influenza, Zika and others have cost billions in lost
    productivity. The risk of catastrophic biological threats is
    increasing due to our interconnected world, heightened risk of
    spillover from animals to humans, ease of making and modifying
    pandemic agents, and an eroding norm against the development and use
    of biological weapons.  The American Rescue Plan serves as an
    initial investment of $10 billion. With this new major investment in
    preventing future pandemics, the United States will build on the
    momentum from the American Rescue Plan, bolster scientific
    leadership, create jobs, markedly decrease the time from discovering
    a new threat to putting shots in arms, and prevent future biological
    catastrophes. 
-   **Jumpstart clean energy manufacturing through federal
    procurement. **The federal government spends more than a
    half-a-trillion dollars buying goods and services each year. As a
    result, it has the ability to be a first-mover in markets. This
    incredible purchasing power can be used to drive innovation and
    clean energy production, as well as to support high quality
    jobs.  To meet the President’s goals of achieving net-zero emissions
    by 2050, the United States will need more electric vehicles,
    charging ports, and electric heat pumps for residential heating and
    commercial buildings. The President is calling on Congress to enable
    the manufacture of those cars, ports, pumps, and clean materials, as
    well as critical technologies like advanced nuclear reactors and
    fuel, here at home through a $46 billion investment in federal
    buying power, creating good-paying jobs and reinvigorating local
    economies, especially in rural areas.
-   **Make it in ALL of America. **The President believes we must build
    social infrastructure to support innovation and productivity across
    the country. He is calling on Congress to invest $20 billion in
    regional innovation hubs and a Community Revitalization Fund. At
    least ten regional innovation hubs will leverage private investment
    to fuel technology development, link urban and rural economies, and
    create new businesses in regions beyond the current handful of
    high-growth centers. The Community Revitalization Fund will support
    innovative, community-led redevelopment projects that can spark new
    economic activity, provide services and amenities, build community
    wealth, and close the current gaps in access to the innovation
    economy for communities of color and rural communities that have
    suffered from years of disinvestment. And, President Biden is
    calling on Congress to invest $14 billion in NIST to bring together
    industry, academia, and government to advance technologies and
    capabilities critical to future competitiveness. He is calling on
    Congress to quadruple support for the Manufacturing Extensions
    Partnership —increasing the involvement of minority-owned and
    rurally-located small- and-medium-sized enterprises in technological
    advancement.
-   **Increase access to capital for domestic manufacturers.** America’s
    manufacturing industry needs to innovate, adapt, and scale to win
    the industries of the future. President Biden is calling on Congress
    to invest more than $52 billion in domestic manufacturers. The
    President is calling on Congress to invest in existing capital
    access programs with a proven track record of success, with a focus
    on supporting rural manufacturing and clean energy. The President’s
    plan also includes specific supports for modernizing supply chains,
    including in the auto sector, like extending the 48C tax credit
    program. He also will call for the creation of a new financing
    program to support debt and equity investments for manufacturing to
    strengthen the resilience of America’s supply chains.
-   **Create a national network of small business incubators and
    innovation hubs**. Almost all manufacturers (98 percent) are small-
    and medium-sized firms. Furthermore, small business ownership is a
    cornerstone of job creation and wealth building. However, even
    before the pandemic, many entrepreneurs struggled to compete in a
    system that is so often tilted in favor of large corporations and
    wealthy individuals. President Biden is calling on Congress to
    invest $31 billion in programs that give small businesses access to
    credit, venture capital, and R&D dollars. The proposal includes
    funding for community-based small business incubators and innovation
    hubs to support the growth of entrepreneurship in communities of
    color and underserved communities.
-   **Partner with rural and Tribal communities to create jobs and
    economic growth in rural America. **Today, despite the fact that
    rural and Tribal communities across the country are asset-rich, more
    than 8 in 10 persistent poverty counties fall outside of a
    metropolitan area. President Biden’s plan invests in rural and
    Tribal communities, including by providing 100 percent broadband
    coverage, rebuilding crumbling infrastructure like roads, bridges,
    and water systems, providing research and development funding to
    land grant universities, and positioning the U.S. agricultural
    sector to lead the shift to net-zero emissions while providing new
    economic opportunities for farmers. President Biden also is
    proposing to transform the way the federal government partners with
    rural and Tribal communities to create jobs and spur inclusive
    economic growth.  Rural communities often don’t have the same budget
    as big cities to hire staff needed to navigate and access federal
    programs. On top of that, they have to navigate a myriad of programs
    all with different purposes and requirements. As part of his plan to
    ensure that all communities recover – regardless of geography –
    President Biden is proposing a $5 billion for a new Rural
    Partnership Program to help rural regions, including Tribal Nations,
    build on their unique assets and realize their vision for inclusive
    community and economic development. This program will empower rural
    regions by supporting locally-led planning and capacity building
    efforts, and providing flexible funding to meet critical needs.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">**Invest in Workforce
Development:**  
</span>  
As more Americans rejoin the workforce or seek out new opportunities in
a changing economy, there is a greater need for skills development
opportunities for workers of all kind. In order to ensure workers have
ready access to the skills they will need to succeed, and to improve
racial and gender equity, President Biden is calling on Congress to
invest $100 billion in proven workforce development programs targeted at
underserved groups and getting our students on paths to careers before
they graduate from high school. His plan will:

-   **Pair job creation efforts with next generation training
    programs. **President Biden is calling on Congress to invest in
    evidence-based approaches to supporting workers. This includes
    wraparound services, income supports, counseling, and case
    management, paired with high-quality training and effective
    partnerships between educational institutions, unions, and
    employers. Specifically, he is calling for a $40 billion investment
    in a new Dislocated Workers Program and sector-based training. This
    funding will ensure comprehensive services for workers, who have
    lost jobs through no fault of their own, to gain new skills and to
    get career services they need with in-demand jobs. Sector-based
    training programs will be focused on growing, high demand sectors
    such as clean energy, manufacturing, and caregiving, helping workers
    of all kinds to find good-quality jobs in an ever-changing economy.
-   **Target workforce development opportunities in underserved
    communities**. Structural racism and persistent economic inequities
    have undermined opportunity for millions of workers. All of the
    investments in workforce training will prioritize underserved
    communities and communities hit hard by a transforming economy.
    President Biden also will call upon Congress to ensure that new jobs
    created in clean energy, manufacturing, and infrastructure are open
    and accessible to women and people of color. President Biden is
    calling on Congress to also specifically target funding to workers
    facing some of the greatest challenges, with a $12 billion
    investment. This includes $5 billion over eight years in support of
    evidence-based community violence prevention programs. He is calling
    on Congress to invest in job training for formerly incarcerated
    individuals and justice-involved youth and in improving public
    safety. He also is calling on Congress to tackle long-term
    unemployment and underemployment through a new subsidized jobs
    program. And, he is calling on Congress to eliminate sub-minimum
    wage provisions in section 14(c) of the Fair Labor Standards Act and
    expand access to competitive, integrated employment opportunities
    and fair wages for workers with disabilities.
-   **Build the capacity of the existing workforce development and
    worker protection systems**. The United States has underinvested in
    the workforce development system for decades. In fact, we currently
    spend just one-fifth of the average that other advanced economies
    spend on workforce and labor market programs. This lack of
    investment [impacts](https://obamawhitehouse.archives.gov/sites/default/files/page/files/20161220_active_labor_market_policies_issue_brief_cea.pdf) all
    of us: better educated workers create spillover effects for other
    workers and lack of employment has negative social impacts on
    communities. President Biden is calling on Congress to invest a
    combined $48 billion in American workforce development
    infrastructure and worker protection. This includes registered
    apprenticeships and pre-apprenticeships, creating one to two million
    new registered apprenticeships slots, and strengthening the pipeline
    for more women and people of color to access these opportunities
    through successful pre-apprenticeship programs such as the Women in
    Apprenticeships in Non-Traditional Occupations. This will ensure
    these underserved groups have greater access to new infrastructure
    jobs. These investments include the creation of career pathway
    programs in middle and high schools, prioritizing increased access
    to computer science and high-quality career and technical programs
    that connect underrepresented students to STEM and in-demand sectors
    through partnerships with both institutions of higher education and
    employers. The President’s plan also will support community college
    partnerships that build capacity to deliver job training programs
    based on in-demand skills. His plan will better tailor services to
    workers’ job seeking and career development needs through
    investments in Expanded Career Services and the Title II adult
    literacy program. The President’s plan includes funding to
    strengthen the capacity of our labor enforcement agencies to protect
    against discrimination, protect wages and benefits, enforce health
    and safety safeguards, strengthen health care and pensions plans,
    and promote union organizing and collective bargaining.  
     

<span style="text-decoration: underline">**CREATE GOOD-QUALITY JOBS THAT
PAY PREVAILING WAGES IN SAFE AND HEALTHY WORKPLACES WHILE ENSURING
WORKERS HAVE A FREE AND FAIR CHOICE TO ORGANIZE, JOIN A UNION, AND
BARGAIN COLLECTIVELY WITH THEIR EMPLOYERS**  
</span>  
As America works to recover from the devastating challenges of a deadly
pandemic, an economic crisis, and a reckoning on race that reveals deep
disparities, we need to summon a new wave of worker power to create an
economy that works for everyone. We owe it not only to those who have
put in a lifetime of work, but to the next generation of workers who
have only known an America of rising inequality and shrinking
opportunity. This is especially important for workers of color and for
women, who have endured discrimination and systematic exclusion from
economic opportunities for generations. All of us deserve to enjoy
America’s promise in full — and our nation’s leaders have a
responsibility to overcome racial, gender, and other inequalities to
make it happen. To that end, the President is calling on Congress to
create new, good-quality union jobs for American workers by leveraging
their grit and ingenuity to address the climate crisis and build a
sustainable infrastructure. Increased unionization
can [also](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S092753711000031X)
[impact](https://academic.oup.com/ej/article/130/631/1898/5824627) our
economic growth overall by improving productivity. President Biden’s
plan will:

-   **Empower Workers**. President Biden is calling on Congress to
    update the social contract that provides workers with a fair shot to
    get ahead, overcome racial and other inequalities that have been
    barriers for too many Americans, expand the middle class, and
    strengthen communities. He is calling on Congress to ensure all
    workers have a free and fair choice to join a union by passing the
    Protecting the Right to Organize (PRO) Act, and guarantee union and
    bargaining rights for public service workers. His plan also ensures
    domestic workers receive the legal benefits and protections they
    deserve and tackles pay inequities based on gender.
-   **Create good jobs**. The President’s plan demands that employers
    benefitting from these investments follow strong labor standards and
    remain neutral when their employees seek to organize a union and
    bargain collectively. He is asking Congress to tie federal
    investments in clean energy and infrastructure to prevailing wages
    and require transportation investments to meet existing transit
    labor protections. He also is calling for investments tied to
    Project Labor, Community Workforce, local hire, and registered
    apprenticeships and other labor or labor-management training
    programs so that federal investments support good jobs and pathways
    to the middle class. Finally, he is asking Congress to include a
    commitment to increasing American jobs through Buy America and Ship
    American provisions.
-   **Protect workers**. President Biden is calling on Congress to
    provide the federal government with the tools it needs to ensure
    employers are providing workers with good jobs – including jobs with
    fair and equal pay, safe and healthy workplaces, and workplaces free
    from racial, gender, and other forms of discrimination and
    harassment. In addition to a $10 billion investment in enforcement
    as part of the plan’s workforce proposals, the President is calling
    for increased penalties when employers violate workplace safety and
    health rules.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">**THE MADE IN AMERICA TAX
PLAN**  
</span>  
Alongside the American Jobs Plan, the President is proposing to fix the
corporate tax code so that it incentivizes job creation and investment
here in the United States, stops unfair and wasteful profit shifting to
tax havens, and ensures that large corporations are paying their fair
share.  
  
The 2017 tax law only made an unfair system worse. A recent independent
study found that 91 Fortune 500 companies paid $0 in federal corporate
taxes on U.S. income in 2018. In fact, according to recent analysis by
the Joint Committee on Taxation, the 2017 tax bill cut the average rate
that corporations paid in half from 16 percent to less than 8 percent in
2018. A number of the provisions in the 2017 law also created new
incentives to shift profits and jobs overseas. President Biden’s reform
will reverse this damage and fundamentally reform the way the tax code
treats the largest corporations.

President Biden’s reform will also make the United States a leader again
in the world and help bring an end to the race-to-the-bottom on
corporate tax rates that allows countries to gain a competitive
advantage by becoming tax havens. This is a generational opportunity to
fundamentally shift how countries around the world tax corporations so
that big corporations can’t escape or eliminate the taxes they owe by
offshoring jobs and profits from the United States.  
Together these corporate tax changes will raise over $2 trillion over
the next 15 years and more than pay for the mostly one-time investments
in the American Jobs Plan and then reduce deficits on a permanent basis:

-   **Set the Corporate Tax Rate at 28 percent. **The President’s tax
    plan will ensure that corporations pay their fair share of taxes by
    increasing the corporate tax rate to 28 percent. His plan will
    return corporate tax revenue as a share of the economy to around its
    21<sup>st</sup> century average from before the 2017 tax law and
    well below where it stood before the 1980s. This will help fund
    critical investments in infrastructure, clean energy, R&D, and more
    to maintain the competitiveness of the United States and grow the
    economy.
-   **Discourage Offshoring by Strengthening the Global Minimum Tax for
    U.S. Multinational Corporations. **Right now, the tax code rewards
    U.S. multinational corporations that shift profits and jobs overseas
    with a tax exemption for the first ten percent return on foreign
    assets, and the rest is taxed at half the domestic tax rate.
    Moreover, the 2017 tax law allows companies to use the taxes they
    pay in high-tax countries to shield profits in tax havens,
    encouraging offshoring of jobs. The President’s tax reform proposal
    will increase the minimum tax on U.S. corporations to 21 percent and
    calculate it on a country-by-country basis so it hits profits in tax
    havens. It will also eliminate the rule that allows U.S. companies
    to pay zero taxes on the first 10 percent of return when they locate
    investments in foreign countries. By creating incentives for
    investment here in the United States, we can reward companies that
    help to grow the U.S. economy and create a more level playing field
    between domestic companies and multinationals. 
-   **End the Race to the Bottom Around the World. **The United States
    can lead the world to end the race to the bottom on corporate tax
    rates. A minimum tax on U.S. corporations alone is insufficient.
    That can still allow foreign corporations to strip profits out of
    the United States, and U.S. corporations can potentially escape U.S.
    tax by inverting and switching their headquarters to foreign
    countries. This practice must end. President Biden is also proposing
    to encourage other countries to adopt strong minimum taxes on
    corporations, just like the United States, so that foreign
    corporations aren’t advantaged and foreign countries can’t try to
    get a competitive edge by serving as tax havens. This plan also
    denies deductions to foreign corporations on payments that could
    allow them to strip profits out of the United States if they are
    based in a country that does not adopt a strong minimum tax. It
    further replaces an ineffective provision in the 2017 tax law that
    tried to stop foreign corporations from stripping profits out of the
    United States. The United States is now seeking a global agreement
    on a strong minimum tax through multilateral negotiations. This
    provision makes our commitment to a global minimum tax clear. The
    time has come to level the playing field and no longer allow
    countries to gain a competitive edge by slashing corporate tax
    rates.
-   **Prevent U.S. Corporations from inverting or claiming tax havens as
    their residence.** Under current law, U.S. corporations can acquire
    or merge with a foreign company to avoid U.S. taxes by claiming to
    be a foreign company, even though their place of management and
    operations are in the United States. President Biden is proposing to
    make it harder for U.S. corporations to invert. This will backstop
    the other reforms which should address the incentive to do so in the
    first place.
-   **Deny Companies Expense Deductions for Offshoring Jobs and Credit
    Expenses for Onshoring. **President Biden’s reform proposal will
    also make sure that companies can no longer write off expenses that
    come from offshoring jobs. This is a matter of fairness. U.S.
    taxpayers shouldn’t subsidize companies shipping jobs abroad.
    Instead, President Biden is also proposing to provide a tax credit
    to support onshoring jobs.
-   **Eliminate a Loophole for Intellectual Property that Encourages
    Offshoring Jobs and Invest in Effective R&D Incentives. **The
    President’s ambitious reform of the tax code also includes reforming
    the way it promotes research and development. This starts with a
    complete elimination of the tax incentives in the Trump tax law for
    “Foreign Derived Intangible Income” (FDII), which gave corporations
    a tax break for shifting assets abroad and is ineffective at
    encouraging corporations to invest in R&D. All of the revenue from
    repealing the FDII deduction will be used to expand more effective
    R&D investment incentives.
-   **Enact A Minimum Tax on Large Corporations’ Book Income. **The
    President’s tax reform will also ensure that large, profitable
    corporations cannot exploit loopholes in the tax code to get by
    without paying U.S. corporate taxes. A 15 percent minimum tax on the
    income corporations use to report their profits to investors—known
    as “book income”—will backstop the tax plan’s other ambitious
    reforms and apply only to the very largest corporations.
-   **Eliminate Tax Preferences for Fossil Fuels and Make Sure Polluting
    Industries Pay for Environmental Clean Up**. The current tax code
    includes billions of dollars in subsidies, loopholes, and special
    foreign tax credits for the fossil fuel industry. As part of the
    President’s commitment to put the country on a path to net-zero
    emissions by 2050, his tax reform proposal will eliminate all these
    special preferences. The President is also proposing to restore
    payments from polluters into the Superfund Trust Fund so that
    polluting industries help fairly cover the cost of cleanups.
-   **Ramping Up Enforcement Against Corporations. **All of these
    measures will make it much harder for the largest corporations to
    avoid or evade taxes by eliminating parts of the tax code that are
    too easily abused. This will be paired with an investment in
    enforcement to make sure corporations pay their fair share. Typical
    workers’ wages are reported to the IRS and their employer withholds,
    so they pay all the taxes they owe. By contrast, large corporations
    have at their disposal loopholes they exploit to avoid or evade tax
    liabilities, and an army of high-paid tax advisors and accountants
    who help them get away with this. At the same time, an under-funded
    IRS lacks the capacity to scrutinize these suspect tax maneuvers: A
    decade ago, essentially all large corporations were audited annually
    by the IRS; today, audit rates are less than 50 percent. This plan
    will reverse these trends, and make sure that the Internal Revenue
    Service has the resources it needs to effectively enforce the tax
    laws against corporations. This will be paired with a broader
    enforcement initiative to be announced in the coming weeks that will
    address tax evasion among corporations and high-income Americans.

These are key steps toward a fairer tax code that encourages investment
in the United States, stops shifting of jobs and profits abroad, and
makes sure that corporations pay their fair share. The President looks
forward to working with Congress, and will be putting forward additional
ideas in the coming weeks for reforming our tax code so that it rewards
work and not wealth, and makes sure the highest income individuals pay
their fair share.

\###
