---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-03-21'
modified_time: 2021-03-23 10:57:45-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/03/21/fact-sheet-u-s-efforts-to-combat-systemic-racism/
published_time: 2021-03-21 09:00:00-04:00
title: "Fact Sheet: U.S. Efforts to Combat Systemic\_Racism"
---
 
*“The prevalence, and pervasiveness, of racial discrimination might make
the situation look hopeless, but we remain hopeful. Let us expose the
racism and racial discrimination endemic to every society, around the
globe. Let us press forward, to root out that discrimination and remove
the rot from our foundations. And on this day dedicated to ending racial
discrimination, let us leave our children a less hateful, more hopeful
world.”*

—* U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations, Linda Thomas-Greenfield*

Combating systemic racism requires aggressive action to address
structures, policies, and practices that contribute to the wealth gap,
to health disparities, and to inequalities in educational access,
outcomes, and beyond. Today, on the occasion of the United Nations’ (UN)
International Day for the Elimination of Racial Discrimination, the
United States reiterates its determination to address these challenges
at home and abroad, and to make clear to the world that nations with
genuine devotion to human rights and equality do not conceal their own
failings – they confront them honestly, transparently, and with a
determination to make things right.

Here is what the administration is doing to address systemic racism:

**Advancing Racial Equity in the Federal Government:** On Day 1 of this
administration, the President issued Executive Order (EO) 13985 which
established that the Federal Government should pursue a comprehensive
approach to advancing equity for all and creating opportunities for the
improvement of communities that have been historically underserved.

**Condemning and Combating Racism, Xenophobia, and Intolerance Against
the Asian American and Pacific Islander (AAPI) Community:** On January
26, President Biden issued a Memorandum Condemning and Combating Racism,
Xenophobia, and Intolerance against Asian Americans and Pacific
Islanders in the United States. The memorandum orders executive
departments and agencies to take all appropriate steps to ensure that
official actions, documents, and statements, including those that
pertain to the COVID-19 pandemic, do not exhibit or contribute to
racism, xenophobia, and intolerance against Asian Americans and Pacific
Islanders.

**Assessing Domestic Violent Extremism:** President Biden directed the
U.S. government interagency to study the threat of domestic violent
extremism in the United States. Earlier this week, the Office of the
Director of National Intelligence released the unclassified executive
summary of the comprehensive assessment acknowledging that domestic
violent extremist motivations include biases against minority
populations.

**Creating a Chief Diversity and Inclusion Officer (CDIO) at the State
Department:** Secretary of State Blinken created the position of a Chief
Diversity and Inclusion Officer (CDIO) at the State Department, in
recognition of the crucial role diversity, equity, and inclusion can and
should play in U.S. foreign policy. Reporting directly to the Secretary,
the CDIO will align and advance Diversity and Inclusion policies across
the department, bring transparency to these initiatives, and hold senior
leadership accountable on progress.

**Incorporating Racial Justice into U.S. Foreign Policy Goals:**
Addressing systemic racism and strengthening democracy in the United
States is a critical part of President Biden’s foreign policy vision.
The Secretary of State shall submit a report to the appropriate
congressional committees describing initiatives that address racial and
ethnic discrimination abroad, to include a list of Department efforts
that explicitly focus on addressing racial and ethnic prejudice and
discriminations, funding for civil society grants and Embassy programs
and initiatives, exchange and leadership programs, and related efforts.
This includes State Department programming through the Bureau of
Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor (DRL) and the U.S. Agency for
International Development (USAID).

**Supporting Historically Marginalized Populations Around the World:**
Globally, the United States supports organizations to empower racial and
ethnic minority communities, and uphold the dignity of people who are
systematically denied their human rights and fundamental freedoms.
Programs support locally-led efforts to combat all types of racial and
ethnic hatred and violence and facilitate access to justice for victims
of racism. Initiatives are intersectional and support individuals who
face discrimination on account of gender identity and expression, sexual
orientation, disability, race or ethnicity, religion, and national
origin.

**Calling for Action at the UN Human Rights Council:** At the UN Human
Rights Council, more than 140 nations joined the United States in a
statement outlining the continuing scourge of racism and racial
discrimination, xenophobia, and other forms of intolerance. This
historic cross-regional statement is a call to action for all nations
to:

-   acknowledge and address the legacy and persistence of systemic
    racism
-   review and revise long-standing practices and policies to ensure all
    individuals are treated equally
-   embed fairness and inclusivity in decision-making processes
-   redress inequities in policies that serve as barriers to equal
    opportunity
-   eliminate barriers to political participation

**Nominating a U.S. Representative to the Committee on the Elimination
of Racial Discrimination:** The United States nominated Professor Gay
McDougall to serve on the Committee on the Elimination of Racial
Discrimination, a body of 18 independent experts that monitors
implementation of the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of
Racial Discrimination by its State parties. Her nomination underscores
the value that the Biden administration places on the Committee’s work.

\###
