---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-03-05'
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/03/05/fact-sheet-the-u-s-response-to-ebola-outbreaks-in-west-and-east-africa/
published_time: 2021-03-05 20:34:26-05:00
title: "Fact Sheet: The U.S. Response to Ebola Outbreaks in West and East\_Africa"
---
 
On February 7, 2021, the Ministry of Health (MOH) in the Democratic
Republic of the Congo (DRC) announced a confirmed case of Ebola in North
Kivu Province. Separately, on February 14, 2021, the MOH in the Republic
of Guinea (Guinea) confirmed an Ebola case in N’Zérékoré Prefecture.
Upon confirmation of the outbreaks, the U.S. Government (USG)
implemented a forward-leaning, whole-of-government response to help
quickly control and end the outbreaks. USG personnel in affected and
border countries immediately supported national preparedness and
response activities, such as survivor care, surveillance, and overall
infection prevention and control, building on capacities strengthened in
past Ebola outbreaks.  And, the USG has committed more than $3.5 million
in assistance to support the rapid responses. The COVID-19 outbreak has
further confirmed that the health and safety of one country is the
health and safety of the world. The Biden administration is committed to
being a strong public health partner by supporting DRC, Guinea, and
communities experiencing these outbreaks. USG agencies and Embassies are
working closely with local, national, and international partners to
ensure the response efforts are well integrated and aligned. These
efforts include:  
  
**Facilitating access to Ebola vaccines and therapeutics**: The vaccines
that DRC and Guinea are receiving come from a global Ebola vaccine
stockpile established January 2021. A $20 million USG contribution,
provided to Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance, and specifically dedicated to
support a stockpile of licensed Ebola vaccines funded the first
deliveries of doses into the stockpile. The USG has coordinated delivery
of 120 treatment courses of U.S.-developed Ebola therapeutics to Guinea,
with more doses available, if needed.  
  
**Increasing response capacity: **To increase response capacity and save
lives, the USG is helping the DRC, Guinea, and neighboring countries to
increase disease surveillance, laboratory, infection prevention and
control, and emergency management capacities, as well as access to
diagnostics, vaccines and therapeutics. The USG is also working to
enhance risk communications, access to safe and dignified burials, and
supporting survivors.  
  
**Increasing surveillance and case management systems**:  The CDC has
provided guidelines and standard operating procedures for finding cases,
and is also supporting critical epidemiology and disease surveillance
systems in affected and neighboring countries to establish transmission
chains. USAID is funding partners to support active surveillance,
community engagement, and supporting the establishment of Ebola
treatment and transit centers.  
  
**Strengthening infection prevention and control (IPC) practices**:  In
close collaboration with WHO, Africa CDC, and other partners, the USG is
creating and deploying IPC training, mobilizing response staff, and
engaging Liberia, Sierra Leone, and Mali to ensure readiness for
potential cases. USAID launched a program to strengthen IPC in major
health facilities, including hygiene promotion, triage and isolation,
and training of health care workers.  
  
**Supporting community engagement activities to increase awareness**: To
promote behaviors that decrease risk of transmission, the U.S. Embassy
in DRC is activating its network of exchange program alumni and opinion
leaders. USAID is supporting risk communication and community engagement
activities. And, CDC is supporting community feedback and mass
communication activities, as well as helping to build capacity to report
rapidly and accurately community questions, perceptions, and concerns.  
  
**Mitigating the risk of spread to the United States**: The ability to
identify and locate those in the U.S. who may have been exposed to Ebola
is critical to help prevent the spread of the disease within U.S.
communities. On March 2, 2021, CDC issued an order that went into effect
on March 4 requiring airlines and aircraft operators to collect and
transmit passenger contact information to the USG for the purposes of
public health follow-up. In support of CDC’s order, the Department of
Homeland Security is directing operators of aircraft to funnel
passengers who in the last 21 days traveled from, or were otherwise
present within, the DRC or Guinea to one of six United States airports
where the USG is focusing public health resources to implement enhanced
public health measures. For more information on the CDC order and flight
redirection, please
visit [HERE](https://www.cdc.gov/quarantine/order-contact-information-ebola.html). 

\###
