---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-03-04'
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/03/04/statement-by-president-joe-biden-on-the-house-of-representatives-passage-of-h-r-1/
published_time: 2021-03-04 07:59:13-05:00
title: "Statement by President Joe\_Biden on the House of Representatives Passage\
  \ of H.R.\_1"
---
 
In the wake of an unprecedented assault on our democracy; a coordinated
attempt to ignore, undermine, and undo the will of the American people
never before seen in our history; and a new wave of aggressive attacks
on voting rights taking place in states across the country, I applaud
Speaker Pelosi and the House of Representatives for passing H.R. 1, the
For the People Act of 2021.

The right to vote is sacred and fundamental — it is the right from which
all of our other rights as Americans spring. This landmark legislation
is urgently needed to protect that right, to safeguard the integrity of
our elections, and to repair and strengthen our democracy. It will rein
in the outrageous gerrymandering that distorts our democracy. It will
empower the Justice Department to crack down on laws that curtail voting
rights along racial lines. It will reform our campaign finance system to
amplify the voices of the people — not the powerful. And it will
modernize and secure our future elections against all manner of threats.

I look forward to working with Congress to refine and advance this
important bill. And I look forward to signing it into law after it has
passed through the legislative process, so that together we can
strengthen and restore American democracy for the next election and all
those to come.

\###
