---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-03-08'
modified_time: 2021-03-07 23:43:04-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/03/08/fact-sheet-president-biden-to-sign-executive-orders-establishing-the-white-house-gender-policy-council-and-ensuring-education-free-from-sexual-violence/
published_time: 2021-03-08 05:00:00-05:00
title: "Fact Sheet: President\_Biden to Sign Executive Orders Establishing the White\_\
  House Gender Policy Council and Ensuring Education Free from Sexual\_Violence"
---
 
*Biden-Harris Administration establishes a government-wide focus on
uplifting the rights of women and girls in the United States and around
the world*

The full participation of all people – including women and girls –
across all aspects of our society is essential to the economic
well-being, health, and security of our nation and of the world. This is
a matter of human rights, justice and fairness. It is also critically
important to reducing poverty and promoting economic growth, increasing
access to education, improving health outcomes, advancing political
stability, and fostering democracy.

Today, President Biden will sign two Executive Orders. The first
establishes the White House Gender Policy Council to ensure that the
Biden-Harris Administration advances gender equity and equal rights and
opportunity for women and girls. The second directs the Department of
Education (ED) to review all of its existing regulations, orders,
guidance, and policies for consistency with the Administration’s policy
to guarantee education free from sexual violence.

A year into COVID-19, women are still contending with the public health
crisis, an ensuing economic crisis, and on top of those challenges, a
caregiving crisis. The pandemic has exacerbated barriers that have held
back women, especially women of color, forcing many to leave the
workforce, manage virtual schooling, and absorb additional caregiving
responsibilities. Many women are also on the frontlines of the response
to COVID-19 – as essential workers keeping our economy, communities and
families going. As the country continues to grapple with the pandemic
and reckons with the scourge of systemic racism, President Biden knows
that we need a government-wide focus on uplifting the rights of women
and girls in the United States and around the world, restoring America
as a champion for gender equity and equality.

Today’s actions will:

**Establish the Gender Policy Council.** The first Executive Order
formally establishes the Gender Policy Council within the Executive
Office of the President, with a role in both domestic and foreign policy
development. The Council will work in coordination with the existing
policy councils to advance gender equity and equality, including by:

-   Combatting systemic bias and discrimination, including sexual
    harassment;
-   Increasing economic security and opportunity by addressing the
    structural barriers to women’s participation in the labor force,
    decreasing wage and wealth gaps, and addressing the caregiving needs
    of American families and supporting care workers, predominantly
    low-paid women of color;
-   Ensuring access to comprehensive health care and preventing and
    responding to gender-based violence;
-   Promoting equity and opportunity in education and leadership; and
-   Advancing gender equality globally through diplomacy, development,
    trade, and defense, and by recognizing the needs and roles of women
    and girls in conflict prevention, peacebuilding, democratic
    rights-respecting governance, global health and humanitarian crises
    and development assistance.

The White House Gender Policy Council will be an essential part of the
Biden-Harris Administration’s plan to ensure we build a more equal and
just society – by aggressively protecting the rights and unique needs of
those who experience multiple and intersecting forms of discrimination,
including individuals who are Black, Latina, Native, Asian American and
Pacific Islander, people with disabilities, and LGBTQI+.

The Executive Order requires the Co-Chairs of the Council to submit to
the President a Government-wide strategy to address gender in policies,
programs and budgets, and an annual report to measure progress on
implementing the strategy. To prevent and respond to gender-based
violence, wherever it occurs, there will be a Special Assistant to the
President and Senior Advisor on Gender-Based Violence on the Council
staff. The Executive Order also requires engagement with non-profit and
community-based organizations, state and local government officials,
Tribal Nations, foreign government officials and multilateral
organizations.

**Ensure education free from sexual violence.** President Biden will
sign an Executive Order that will direct the Department of Education
(ED) to review all of its existing regulations, orders, guidance, and
policies to ensure consistency with the Biden-Harris Administration’s
policy that students be guaranteed education free from sexual
violence. It also directs ED to specifically evaluate the Title IX
regulation issued under the previous administration and agency action
taken pursuant to that regulation, to determine whether the regulation
and agency action are consistent with the policies of the Biden-Harris
Administration.

\###
