---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-03-08'
modified_time: 2021-03-08 18:05:58-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/03/08/u-s-department-of-homeland-security-secretary-mayorkas-designates-venezuela-for-temporary-protected-status-for-18-months/
published_time: 2021-03-08 18:05:57-05:00
title: "U.S. Department of Homeland Security: Secretary Mayorkas Designates Venezuela\
  \ for Temporary Protected Status for 18\_Months"
---
 
*New Designation Allows Eligible Venezuelans to Apply for TPS and
Employment Authorization Documents*

WASHINGTON—Secretary of Homeland Security Alejandro N. Mayorkas is
designating Venezuela for Temporary Protected Status (TPS) for 18
months, until September 2022. This new designation of TPS for Venezuela
enables Venezuelan nationals (and individuals without nationality who
last resided in Venezuela) currently residing in the United States to
file initial applications for TPS, so long as they meet eligibility
requirements.

This designation is due to extraordinary and temporary conditions in
Venezuela that prevent nationals from returning safely, including a
complex humanitarian crisis marked by widespread hunger and
malnutrition, a growing influence and presence of non-state armed
groups, repression, and a crumbling infrastructure. TPS can be extended
to a country with conditions that fall into one, or more, of the three
statutory bases for designation: ongoing armed conflict, environmental
disasters, or extraordinary and temporary conditions.

“The living conditions in Venezuela reveal a country in turmoil, unable
to protect its own citizens,” said Secretary Mayorkas.  “It is in times
of extraordinary and temporary circumstances like these that the United
States steps forward to support eligible Venezuelan nationals already
present here, while their home country seeks to right itself out of the
current crises.”

Only individuals who can demonstrate continuous residence in the United
States as of March 8, 2021 are eligible for TPS under Venezuela’s
designation. For their own health and safety, individuals should not
believe smugglers or others claiming the border is now open. Due to the
pandemic, travel and admission restrictions at the border remain in
place.

Individuals desiring TPS must file an application with U.S. Citizenship
and Immigration Services within the 180-day registration period. They
may also apply for Employment Authorization Documents (EADs) and for
travel authorization. All individuals applying for TPS undergo security
and background checks as part of determining eligibility. More details
about the eligibility criteria to submit an initial TPS application and
apply for an EAD can be found in the [Federal Register Notice
(FRN)](/lnks.gd/l/eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiJ9.eyJidWxsZXRpbl9saW5rX2lkIjoxMDAsInVyaSI6ImJwMjpjbGljayIsImJ1bGxldGluX2lkIjoiMjAyMTAzMDguMzY1Nzk4MzEiLCJ1cmwiOiJodHRwczovL3d3dy5mZWRlcmFscmVnaXN0ZXIuZ292L3B1YmxpYy1pbnNwZWN0aW9uLzIwMjEtMDQ5NTEvZGVzaWduYXRpb24tb2YtdmVuZXp1ZWxhLWZvci10ZW1wb3JhcnktcHJvdGVjdGVkLXN0YXR1cy1hbmQtaW1wbGVtZW50YXRpb24tb2YtZW1wbG95bWVudCJ9.i271BpWLJek4Ol6Py-VPyz87A9dmNX3uluEG-rrjnzA/s/1462885196/br/99598777038-l%3c).
The FRN also provides information about Deferred Enforced Departure
(DED) for Venezuelan nationals and how individuals may apply for
DED-related EADs, based on the January 19, 2021, presidential memorandum
establishing DED for Venezuelan nationals for 18 months, through July
20, 2022. Individuals who apply for and receive TPS and who are also
covered by DED do not need to apply for Employment Authorization
Documentations under both programs. USCIS encourages individuals who
believe they are eligible for TPS to apply during the initial
registration period announced in the FRN, even if they are also covered
by DED, in case they cannot qualify for TPS late initial filing after
DED has expired.

**Secretario Mayorkas Designa a Venezuela al Estatus de Protección
Temporal por 18 Meses**

*La Nueva Designación Permite que Venezolanos Elegibles Soliciten TPS y
Documentos de Autorización de Empleo*

WASHINGTON—El secretario de Seguridad Nacional, Alejandro N. Mayorkas,
ha designado a Venezuela al Estatus de Protección Temporal (TPS) por 18
meses, hasta septiembre de 2022. Esta nueva designación de TPS para
Venezuela permite que los nacionales venezolanos (y personas sin
nacionalidad cuya última residencia habitual fue Venezuela) que residen
actualmente en Estados Unidos presenten solicitudes iniciales para TPS,
siempre que cumplan con los requisitos de elegibilidad.

La designación se debe a condiciones extraordinarias y temporales
existentes en Venezuela que evitan que los nacionales regresen a su país
de manera segura, entre estas, una crisis humanitaria compleja, marcada
por el hambre y la desnutrición generalizadas, una creciente influencia
y presencia de grupos armados no estatales, represión y una
infraestructura en mal estado. El TPS puede extenderse a un país con
condiciones que caigan dentro de una o más de las tres bases
estatutarias para la designación: conflicto armado en curso, desastres
naturales o condiciones extraordinarias y temporales.

“Las condiciones de vida en Venezuela revelan un país en crisis, incapaz
de proteger a sus propios ciudadanos”, dijo el secretario Mayorkas. “Es
en tiempos de circunstancias extraordinarias y temporales como estas,
que Estados Unidos da un paso al frente para apoyar a los nacionales
venezolanos elegibles que están actualmente presentes en Estados Unidos
mientras su país de origen busca recuperarse de las crisis actuales”.

Solo las personas que pueden demostrar residencia continua en Estados
Unidos al 8 de marzo de 2021 son elegibles a TPS bajo la designación de
Venezuela. Por su propia salud y seguridad, las personas no deben creer
en los traficantes u otras personas que afirmen que la frontera ahora
está abierta. Debido a la pandemia, las restricciones de viaje y
admisión en la frontera siguen vigentes. 

Las personas que deseen el TPS deben presentar una solicitud con el
Servicio de Ciudadanía e Inmigración de Estados Unidos dentro del
periodo inicial de registro de 180 días. También pueden solicitar
Documentos de Autorización de Empleo (EAD) y autorización de viaje.
Todas las personas que solicitan TPS son sometidas a verificaciones de
seguridad y de antecedentes como parte de la determinación de
elegibilidad. Puede encontrar más detalles sobre los criterios de
elegibilidad para presentar una solicitud inicial de TPS y solicitar un
EAD en la [notificación del Registro Federal
(FRN)](/lnks.gd/l/eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiJ9.eyJidWxsZXRpbl9saW5rX2lkIjoxMDEsInVyaSI6ImJwMjpjbGljayIsImJ1bGxldGluX2lkIjoiMjAyMTAzMDguMzY1Nzk4MzEiLCJ1cmwiOiJodHRwczovL3d3dy5mZWRlcmFscmVnaXN0ZXIuZ292L3B1YmxpYy1pbnNwZWN0aW9uLzIwMjEtMDQ5NTEvZGVzaWduYXRpb24tb2YtdmVuZXp1ZWxhLWZvci10ZW1wb3JhcnktcHJvdGVjdGVkLXN0YXR1cy1hbmQtaW1wbGVtZW50YXRpb24tb2YtZW1wbG95bWVudCJ9.Ejq1m1-GkgBStU4DirDuMU2-gU6C10AYRwNT7m81VNc/s/1462885196/br/99598777038-l%3c).

La FRN también proporciona información acerca de la Salida Forzosa
Diferida (DED) para nacionales venezolanos y cómo pueden solicitar los
EAD relacionados con la DED, a base del memorándum presidencial del 19
de enero de 2021 que establece la DED para nacionales venezolanos por 18
meses, hasta el 20 de julio de 2022. Las personas que soliciten y
reciban TPS y también estén cubiertas por la DED no tienen que solicitar
documentación de autorización de empleo bajo ambos programas. USCIS
exhorta a las personas que crean que son elegibles a TPS a solicitar
durante el periodo de registro inicial anunciado en la FRN, aún si están
cubiertos por la DED, en caso de que no cualifiquen para una
presentación inicial tardía a TPS después que la DED haya caducado.

\###
