---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-03-30'
modified_time: 2021-03-30 19:32:08-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/03/30/fact-sheet-president-biden-announces-additional-actions-to-respond-to-anti-asian-violence-xenophobia-and-bias/
published_time: 2021-03-30 12:00:00-04:00
title: 'FACT SHEET: President Biden Announces Additional Actions to Respond to Anti-Asian
  Violence, Xenophobia and Bias'
---
 
* “Too many Asian Americans have been walking up and down the streets
and worrying, waking up each morning the past year feeling their safety
and the safety of their loved ones are at stake. They’ve been attacked,
blamed, scapegoated, and harassed. They’ve been verbally assaulted,
physically assaulted, killed… The conversation we had today with the
AAPI leaders, and that we’re hearing all across the country, is that
hate and violence often hide in plain sight. And it’s often met with
silence. That’s been true throughout our history, but that has to change
— because our silence is complicity. We cannot be complicit. We have to
speak out. We have to act.”*  
*– President Joe Biden, March 19, 2021*  

Across our nation, an outpouring of grief and outrage continues at the
horrific violence and xenophobia perpetrated against Asian American
communities, especially Asian American women and girls. As President
Biden said during his first prime time address, anti-Asian violence and
xenophobia is wrong, it’s un-American, and it must stop.

Today, President Biden is announcing new actions to respond to the
increase in acts of anti-Asian violence, and to advance safety,
inclusion, and belonging for all Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and
Pacific Islander communities. These actions build on the
President’s [Memorandum Condemning and Combating Racism, Xenophobia, and
Intolerance Against Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders in the United
States](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/01/26/memorandum-condemning-and-combating-racism-xenophobia-and-intolerance-against-asian-americans-and-pacific-islanders-in-the-united-states/),
issued his first week in office. In his first 65 days, the President
announced that it is the official policy of this Administration to
condemn anti-Asian bias and violence; visited AAPI leaders in Atlanta to
denounce anti-Asian violence and gender-based violence with the Vice
President; called on Congress to pass the COVID-19 Hate Crimes Act
introduced by Senator Hirono and Congresswoman Meng; and created a
historically diverse Administration in which 15 percent of all
appointees identify as Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders. 

Today’s announcements include:

**Reinstating and reinvigorating the White House Initiative on Asian
Americans and Pacific Islanders, with initial focus on anti-Asian bias
and violence: **The President will re-establish and expand the
initiative’s initial mandate to coordinate across federal agencies to
combat anti-Asian bias and violence, especially anti-Asian violence at
the intersection of gender-based violence. The initiative will have an
expanded mandate to promote inclusion, belonging, and opportunity for
all Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander communities.
Over the coming weeks, the Administration will meet with Asian American,
Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander leaders and organizations to hear
their recommendations for the initiative’s mission, structure, and
community engagement. And, the President will appoint a permanent
Director to lead the Initiative in the coordination of policies across
the federal government impacting Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and
Pacific Islander communities.

**Funding for AAPI survivors of domestic violence and sexual
assault: **The Department of Health and Human Services is allocating
$49.5 million from the American Rescue Plan to a new grant program for
community based, culturally specific services and programs for survivors
of domestic violence and sexual assault who face additional barriers to
services and safety, such as language access barriers. This program will
expand services to domestic violence survivors from Asian American,
Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander communities.

**Establishing a COVID-19 Equity Task Force committee on addressing and
ending xenophobia against Asian Americans:** President Biden established
a COVID-19 Health Equity Task Force through his [Executive Order on
Ensuring an Equitable Pandemic Response and
Recovery](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/01/21/executive-order-ensuring-an-equitable-pandemic-response-and-recovery/) on
January 21, 2021. The Task Force is charged with making recommendations
to the President to eliminate health and social disparities that result
in disproportionately higher rates of exposure, illness, hospitalization
and death related to COVID-19, and for preventing such inequities in the
future. 

To carry out this work, today HHS is announcing that the Task Force has
established a subcommittee on Structural Drivers of Health Inequity and
Xenophobia. This subcommittee will provide recommendations to ensure the
Federal Government’s response to COVID-19 mitigates anti-Asian
xenophobia and bias, as established by the Presidential Memorandum
Condemning and Combatting Racism, Xenophobia, and Intolerance Against
Asian American and Pacific Islanders in the United States.

In addition to addressing bias and xenophobia against Asian American
communities, the subcommittee will advance health equity for specific
Asian American communities, including Pacific Islander and Native
Hawaiian communities who have disproportionately been infected by and
died from COVID-19. The subcommittee will lead policy sprints to develop
actionable recommendations for advancing cultural competency, language
access, and inclusion towards Asian Americans, Native Hawaiians, and
Pacific Islanders as the United States ends and recovers from the
COVID-19 pandemic. 

**Establishment of a Department of Justice cross-agency initiative to
address anti-Asian violence: **To implement the President’s
week-one [Memorandum combatting AAPI
xenophobia](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/01/26/memorandum-condemning-and-combating-racism-xenophobia-and-intolerance-against-asian-americans-and-pacific-islanders-in-the-united-states/),
DOJ has established a whole agency initiative to respond to anti-Asian
violence. Actions to date include:

-   **<u>Leadership and coordination</u>**: The Department of Justice
    Civil Rights Division re-convened the Department’s Hate Crimes
    Enforcement and Prevention Initiative and is focused on the rise of
    hate crimes against the AAPI community. The initiative is
    re-initiating community outreach and engagement programs and
    addressing gaps in hate crimes reporting.
-   **<u>Data and transparency</u>**: To ensure transparency in the
    nation’s hate crimes data, and to support community-led efforts to
    shine a spotlight on acts of anti-Asian violence, the Federal Bureau
    of Investigation will publish a new interactive hate crime page on
    its Crime Data Explorer website, which will spotlight reports of
    anti-Asian hate crimes. This online tool will help communities,
    researchers, and advocates study and measure national hate crimes
    statistics. And, to promote accurate reporting of hate crimes
    against Asian Americans, the FBI is also adding scenario-based
    training on anti-Asian bias crimes to its data collection training
    manual that is provided to state and local partners. In January
    2021, the FBI Criminal Justice Information System transitioned to
    the National Incident-Based Reporting System, which improves upon
    the prior reporting system by adding more than 50 additional
    categories of crimes and demographic data, and supports state and
    local law enforcement agencies in reporting hate crimes, including
    crimes related to anti-Asian bias. 
-   **<u>Removing language access barriers to hate crimes
    information</u>**: DOJ has updated its [hate crimes
    website](https://www.justice.gov/hatecrimes), which provides a
    centralized portal of hate crime-related resources for law
    enforcement, researchers, victims, and advocacy groups. Information
    on the site has been made accessible in four of the most frequently
    spoken AAPI languages: Chinese, Japanese, Korean, Tagalog, and
    Vietnamese.
-   **<u>Community resources and outreach</u>**: DOJ is partnering with
    the National Asian Pacific American Bar Association (NAPABA) on a
    panel discussion for its 50,000 members focused on improving efforts
    to combat anti-Asian hate incidents. DOJ’s Civil Rights Division,
    Community Relations Service, and the FBI will participate in the
    discussion and share resources. DOJ is also partnering with
    community-based organizations to expand public education and
    awareness about hate crimes reporting, prevention, and response.
-   **<u>Law enforcement training</u>:** The FBI will begin holding
    nationwide civil rights training events to promote state and local
    law enforcement reporting of hate crimes. These new civil rights
    trainings will feature modules on recognizing and reporting
    anti-Asian bias. The Department’s Office of Community Oriented
    Policing Services is field testing a new hate crimes curriculum
    focused on law enforcement response, investigation, and reporting of
    hate crimes. The course focuses on increasing capacity and
    competency to investigate and accurately report all hate crimes,
    including those motivated by anti-Asian bias.

**Launching a **[**new virtual
bookshelf**](https://www.neh.gov/news/virtual-bookshelf-asian-american-and-pacific-islander-communities)** of
federally-funded projects that explore and celebrate Asian Americans’
contributions to the United States: **The National Endowment for the
Humanities is launching a virtual library including resources for
educators, civic leaders, arts and humanities institutions, and families
to explore Asian American history, and address the history and ongoing
challenge of anti-Asian discrimination and racism in the United States.

**Funding critical research to prevent and address bias and xenophobia
against Asian American communities. **The National Science Foundation is
taking a comprehensive approach to investing in research to understand,
address, and end bias, discrimination and xenophobia, including against
AAPI communities. NSF is currently supporting more than 100 grants
across the country totaling more than $33 million dollars of investment.
These diverse researchers are advancing innovative studies to reveal new
and more effective strategies for reducing the frequency and severity of
discrimination experienced by historically underrepresented groups, and
reduce targeting of, and violence towards, historically underrepresented
communities and individuals, including Asian American communities. This
work continues NSF’s history of commitment to supporting fundamental
research in these vital areas.

**Today’s announcements are additional steps in the Biden
Administration’s work to advance equity for Asian American, Native
Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander communities through a whole-of-government
approach to racial justice. **On his first day in office, President
Biden signed an Executive Order on Advancing Racial Equity and Support
for Underserved Communities Through the Federal Government. As part of
this Order, the President charged federal agencies with taking a
comprehensive approach to advancing equity for AAPI communities. From
reducing language access barriers, to improving the collection and
disaggregation of data on AAPI individuals and households, the Biden
Administration is committed to working hand in hand with Asian American
leaders, civil rights organizations, and communities to advance
fairness, opportunity, and inclusion for all.

\###
