---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-03-01'
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/03/01/fact-sheet-u-s-mexico-bilateral-cooperation/
published_time: 2021-03-01 11:36:04-05:00
title: "FACT SHEET: U.S. \u2013 Mexico Bilateral\_Cooperation"
---
 
*“We are friends and allies, and our relationship is based on mutual
respect for our peoples and our nations’ sovereignty.”*

The scope of bilateral relations between the United States and Mexico is
broad and deep, encompassing extensive historical, cultural, and
commercial ties. With 2,000 miles of border, the relationship with
Mexico impacts the lives of millions of Americans every day.  Each day,
nearly $1.9 billion in trade crosses our shared border.  Today,
President Biden will meet with Mexican President Andrés Manuel López
Obrador to usher in a new phase of the U.S. – Mexico bilateral
relationship emphasizing the following:

**Pandemic Response: ** It is in the national security interest of both
nations to work closely with Mexico to combat the COVID-19 pandemic.
Both countries communicate actively on the impact of COVID-19 on border
communities and adjust border policies to match the realities on the
ground to protect the health and safety of both our peoples, and to keep
essential supply chains operational. 

**Migration and Joint Development Efforts:** The United States and
Mexico share a vision that recognizes the dignity of migrants as well as
orderly, safe and regular migration, and a shared commitment to
addressing the root causes of irregular migration and we are working
with regional and international partners to promote growth throughout
the region.  The United States has suspended all enrollments in the
Migrant Protection Protocols (MPP) and is now processing migrants at
select ports of entry.

**Economic Cooperation:** The United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement
(USMCA) will support mutually beneficial trade and will be the backbone
of our regional economic recovery.  USMCA is also expected to prioritize
the rights of workers by generating job opportunities; improving worker
protections; and preventing forced labor.  
  
**Security:** The governments of Mexico and the United States agree on
the importance of working together against the common threat posed by
transnational organized crime.  Through the Merida Initiative, the
United States has appropriated more than $3.2 billion in equipment,
training, and capacity building from FY 2008 – FY 2020.  We regularly
cooperate to stem the flow of people, illegal narcotics, arms, and other
contraband.

**Climate Change:** The climate change agenda is a North American
agenda, and both countries agree on the importance of tackling the
climate crisis as both a security challenge and an economic
opportunity.  As a leader on climate policy, the United States will work
together with Mexico to promote climate ambitions across the region.

\###
