---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-03-29'
modified_time: 2021-03-29 14:03:47-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/03/29/fact-sheet-president-biden-announces-90-of-the-adult-u-s-population-will-be-eligible-for-vaccination-and-90-will-have-a-vaccination-site-within-5-miles-of-home-by-april-19/
published_time: 2021-03-29 14:03:43-04:00
title: "FACT SHEET: President\_Biden Announces 90% of the Adult U.S. Population will\
  \ be Eligible for Vaccination and 90% will have a Vaccination Site Within 5 Miles\
  \ of Home by April\_19"
---
 
*The President to Outline New Actions to Accomplish Goal: Expanding
Pharmacy Program and Launching a New Program to Transport the Most
Vulnerable Seniors and People with Disabilities to Vaccination Sites*

Today, President Biden will unveil new actions to get more people
vaccinated quickly and announce that by April 19, 90% of adults in the
U.S. will be eligible for vaccination and 90% will have a vaccination
site within 5 miles of where they live. The President will announce that
the Administration is increasing the number of pharmacies in the federal
pharmacy vaccination program from 17,000 to nearly 40,000 across the
country and will stand up a dozen more mass vaccination sites by April
19.  He will also announce a new effort to fund community organizations
to provide transportation and assistance for the nation’s most at-risk
seniors and people with disabilities to access vaccines. This builds on
last week’s historic $10 billion investment to expand access to COVID-19
vaccines in the hardest-hit and highest-risk communities.

President Biden called for all states, Tribes, and territories to make
all U.S. adults eligible for vaccination no later than May 1 and is
working closely with state and local leaders to make this happen as
quickly as possible. To date, 31 states have said they will open up
eligibility to all adults by April 19. With today’s actions to expand
access, that means in just three weeks, 90% of all U.S. adults will be
eligible for vaccination and 90% will have a vaccination site within 5
miles of where they live.

The President will also remind Americans about the importance of taking
preventative measures to stop the spread of COVID-19, as variants
continue to spread and cases are on the rise. He will call for continued
masking and social distancing as work to get more people vaccinated as
quickly as possible.

Today’s announcements include:

**Expanding Vaccines to 20,000 More Local Pharmacies, Bringing the Total
to Nearly 40,000 Pharmacies Across the Country by April 19:**  The
President will announce that the Administration is expanding the Federal
Retail Pharmacy program from 17,000 to nearly 40,000 stores within the
next three weeks. This means that by April 19, there will be a vaccine
site within 5 miles of 90% of all Americans. The participating
pharmacies in the Federal Retail Pharmacy Program are located in
communities across the country – including 45% currently in the
highest-need neighborhoods.

**Launching New Effort to Get the Nation’s Most Vulnerable and At-Risk
Seniors and People with Disabilities Vaccinated:** The President will
announce nearly $100 million in funding to help vaccinate vulnerable and
at-risk older adults and people with disabilities. This new effort will
expand the senior and disability services funded by the Department of
Health and Human Services to provide the high-intensity assistance
needed to get these individuals scheduled for and transported to
vaccinations. It will also fund community organizations to transport
them to appointments, which can involve extra time, assistance with
mobility, and supporting people during wait times. Funding will be
available starting within two weeks. The Administration has made
tremendous progress on vaccinating seniors, with over 70% of people over
65 years old receiving at least one shot, and this new program will help
vaccinate our most vulnerable and at-risk seniors and people with
disabilities who have yet to be vaccinated, including those who need
assistance leaving their home or are socially isolated. 

**Expanding the Number of Mass Vaccination Centers Across the Country:**
The President will announce that the Administration will stand up a
dozen more federally-run mass vaccination sites across the country,
including two new sites in Gary, Indiana and St. Louis, Missouri
announced earlier today. Equity and access are prioritized in the design
of the federal community vaccination centers, with some featuring
weekend and extended daytime hours, reserved slots for registration
through faith-based and community-based organizations, and deployment of
mobile vaccination units to help vaccinate surrounding communities. This
is in addition to the over $4 billion federal funding obligated to date
and thousands of federal personnel deployed to support state- and
locally-run community vaccination centers. In partnership with states,
FEMA has launched 21 sites in communities across the country. Together,
these sites have the ability to administer a total of 79,000 shots per
day at full capacity.

\###
