---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-03-15'
modified_time: 2021-03-15 15:52:24-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/03/15/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-jen-psaki-march-15-2021/
published_time: 2021-03-15 15:52:23-04:00
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Jen\_Psaki, March 15,\_2021"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

12:46 P.M. EDT

MS. PSAKI:  Happy Monday.  Okay, just a couple of items at the top.  And
I know there is a hard out here for a gather time, so we’ll work to get
through as many people as possible.  And if our friends in the front row
could help with that so we can get to the back row, we’ll come circle
back around if that works.

Okay.  A couple things at the top.  As you all know, the President is
launching his “Help Is Here” tour to communicate directly with Americans
about how the Rescue Plan is helping them and their families.  The tour
will make clear that help is here and that we are on the path towards
crushing the virus and rebuilding our economy.

A number of these pieces you know, but just to add a few more details:
So, tomorrow, the President will travel to Delaware County,
Pennsylvania, to highlight how the Rescue Plan invests in small
businesses — a key component of the package — including minority-owned
businesses, so they can rehire and retain workers while keeping them
safe.  The Vice President and Second Gentleman will be in Denver, also
meeting with small-business owners.  That will be a big piece we’re
highlighting tomorrow.

On Wednesday, the First Lady will travel to Concord, New Hampshire, to
underscore how the Rescue Plan provides $130 billion to help schools
reopen.  The Second Gentleman will convene a listening session in
Albuquerque, New Mexico, with working women, including teachers.  And
Education Secretary Cardona will do a remote local media tour to talk
about school reopenings.  And I think you can see what the theme is of
that day.

On Thursday, the administration will showcase how the American Rescue
Plan provides emergency aid to cover back rent, to help homeowners catch
up on their payments, and provide funding for families recovering from
homelessness.

And then, on Friday, President Biden and Vice President Harris will
travel to Georgia, as you all already know, to underscore how they and
congressional Democrats fulfilled their promise in delivering $1,400
checks to finish the job of $2,000 in direct relief to millions of
Americans.

The second piece of — just the last piece, I should say, at the top: As
many of you saw — the news out this morning that Gene Sperling will be
joining the team here to run point on the implementation of the Rescue
Plan. 

I’ve known him for a long time, worked with him previously.  But to give
you a few highlights, Gene has spent more than a decade at the highest
level of government, including as a senior Treasury official and as the
only person to serve as NEC Director twice.  As we’ve talked about a bit
in here, there are a number of economic officials who will be playing
roles in implementation, so he has especially an interesting and
relevant background in help pull all those levers.

Gene also played a key role in helping steer Detroit out of bankruptcy
and on the path to renewal, and he quarterbacked support for small
businesses and economic assistance for unemployed Americans.

He will work with the heads of the White House policy councils and key
leaders at federal agencies so we can get funds out the door quickly,
maximize its impact, accelerate the work the administration is doing to
crush COVID-19, and rescue our economy.  And as I’ve noted in here
before, the President felt it was important to have a point person who
could, of course, pull all of these levers.

With that, go ahead, Zeke.

Q    Thanks, Jen.  Millions of Americans started to receive direct
deposit checks over the weekend.  Has the President given any thought to
how he wants Americans to use that money?  Does he clearly want them to
spend it to stimulate the economy?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, it’s a great question.  I think that the President
believes that this relief will help Americans get through this difficult
period of time, and they will use it for different means. Some Americans
will use it to ensure they can put food on the table; that certainly is
a form of stimulus.  Some will use it to ensure they can pay their rent;
that’s also a form of stimulus.  Some will use it to, you know, pay back
some loans they may have taken out.  It’s — it’s really up to family to
family. 

He wants them to have the discretion on how they’re utilizing these
funds, but he pushed for this additional $1,400 check and was adamant
about that because he knows people need a bridge to get to the other
side of this economic downturn.

Q    On a different subject: The Vatican today said it would not bless
same-sex unions.  The President is a devout Catholic.  Does he have a
personal response to that?

MS. PSAKI:  I don’t think he has a personal response to the Vatican,
no.  He continues to believe and support same-sex unions, as you know,
and he’s long had that position.

Q    And then, finally, does the President — the President is the head
of the Democratic Party.  What message is he sending by not calling on
the New York Governor to resign, number one? 

And, number two, tomorrow’s the usual weekly call with governors. 
Governor Cuomo is still the head of the National Governors Association;
usually he attends.  Is he still welcome on the White House-convened
call?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, let me first say that, like everyone who continues to
read stories, new developments seem to happen every day.  We find them
troubling.  The President finds them troubling, hard to read.  And every
woman who steps forward needs to be treated with dignity and respect.

The New York Attorney General is pursuing of course an independent
investigation against Governor Cuomo, and that is appropriate.  And the
President believes that’s appropriate, as does the Vice President.  The
investigation needs to be both quick and thorough, consistent with how
serious these allegations are.

And of course, our objective, though, here continues to be to get the
COVID pandemic under control, and we don’t want the people of New York
or any state to be impacted negatively.  We will continue to work with a
range of governors — including Governor Cuomo, who I would expect to
join the call tomorrow; we’ll leave that up to him, but — but in order
to continue to coordinate on getting the pandemic under control and
economic assistance out the door.

Go ahead.  Oh, we’ll go to Steve next.  Go ahead.

Q    Thanks.  Just two quick ones, Jen.  Given how fast moving the
situation has been, does the President believe that his administration
has a handle on what’s happening on the southern border right now?

MS. PSAKI:  We certainly do.  And let me just give you a bit of an
update on a couple of the steps that we’re taking.  You know, first, let
me say that, like COVID — obviously a different issue, but we recognize
this is a big problem — the last administration left us a dismantled and
unworkable system.  And like any other problem, we are going to do
everything we can to solve it.

So our focus here is on solutions.  Let me just walk you through a
couple of the steps — and we’ve done this a little bit, but there’s
always, of course, developments on considerations that are underway.

So, first, we’ve updated — or we have not, but CDC has updated
guidelines to return to full capacity.  This will help expand capacity
to move children more quickly out of CBP facilities.  That’s an
important step.  The implementation of that is of course ongoing. 

We are — there has — there is now an embedding, at the President’s ask,
of HHS and ORR with CBP, which will allow government to more quickly
I.D., vet, confirm sponsors and family members of the unaccompanied
minors and will lead to quicker placement.  Because, as you know — as
all of you know, big issues here are expediting what’s happening at the
border.  None of these Border Patrol facilities are made for children,
and we want to move them as quickly as possible into shelters and then
into homes.

FEMA — this was an announcement over the weekend — is now supporting —
providing support at the border, adding extra capacity to HHS for quick
processing to avoid overcrowding.  This will hope — we hope this will
help quickly get children into HHS and ORR facilities, and placed with
vetted sponsors and families.  The President is very focused on
expediting what’s happening at the border at every step in the process.

And then this happened on Friday, but it didn’t receive a lot of — there
was a lot going on, so I just wanted to highlight: We rescinded the 2018
MOU between DHS and HHS, which we believe will encourage families and
sponsors to come forward without fear of additional immigration
enforcement.  And we’ve seen this as an issue, where family members or
even sponsor families are worried that this will mean they will be
tracked.  And this over- — rescinds that.

We’re also looking for additional facilities, and this remains a focus.

So, we recognize this as a problem.  We’re focused on addressing it. 
That’s just five steps we’re taking, and we’re continuing to evaluate
what additional steps can be taken to address the situation at the
border.

Q    Okay.  Just one more, real quick.  For the $130 billion in
education funding, one of the big issues with past pots of ed funding is
it will be obligated, but getting it spent takes time.  Will that be
part of Gene’s mandate: ensuring the money is not just obligated, but it
actually goes out the door to make the fixes that the schools need to
actually get students back into place?

MS. PSAKI:  He’ll absolutely be coordinating with the Secretary of
Education, Secretary Cardona, who’s going to be holding an education
summit soon.  I believe it might be next week.  I’m not sure if they’ve
announced it yet, so hopefully I’m not getting ahead of them.

And part of that is working with schools and school districts on
identifying best practices and sharing them, figuring out how to ensure
that the schools who need funding get the funding.  There will be a
requirement that schools who get funding have to do a report within 30
days of how they will reopen their schools.

So a big part of the implementation — of course, it will be led by the
Department of Education, but that is a pivotal part of the Rescue Plan
and one that Americans strongly support.  And, certainly, Gene would
have a role in coordinating that.

Go ahead.

Q    Jen, is Mexico doing enough to stem the flow of migrants across
their territory?

MS. PSAKI:  Across the territory from South America into Mexico?

Q    Yes.

MS. PSAKI:  You know, I think we are — we work extremely closely with
the country of Mexico on — on addressing what is a challenge for us and
certainly a challenge for them. 

There’s always more that can be done, Steve, and I think part of our
engagement is having those diplomatic conversations and having
discussions about what more can be done at all the borders.

Q    And, secondly, on North Korea: Have you reached out to them and
tried to engage in dialogue?  And have they responded in any way?

MS. PSAKI:  I know there were some reports over the weekend on exactly
that.  And so I can confirm that we have reached out.  We obviously have
a main — a series of — a number of channels, as we always have had, that
we can reach out through. 

We also are focused on consulting with many former government officials
who have been involved in North Korea policy, including from several
prior administrations.  And we have and will continue to engage with
other Japanese and South Korean allies to solicit input, explore fresh
approaches.  We’ve listened carefully to their ideas, including through
trilateral consultations.  Our goal is — of course, diplomacy is always
our goal.  Our goal is to reduce the risk of escalation.  But, to date,
we have not received any response.

Q    Are you surprised by that, that they haven’t responded?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, Steve, as you know, because you follow this issue
closely, and I know — and have covered past administration — this
follows over a year without active dialogue with North Korea, despite
multiple attempts by the U.S. to engage. 

So diplomacy remains our — continues to remain our first priority.  We
have — I think you can all anticipate that there will be a continued
expansion of engagement with partners and allies in the region, and this
will, of course, be a top- — a topic of discussion.

Go ahead.

Q    Yes.  Can you bottom-line for us, again, what is the — what is the
hope and expectation from this Help is Here tour this week?

MS. PSAKI:  Over the next couple of days?  A big focus is we want to
take a moment — or take some time, more than a moment — to engage
directly with the American people and make sure they understand the
benefits of the package, how they can benefit from the package; and how
it’s going to help them get through this difficult period of time, and
our economy — and our economic recovery; and also give them a sense of
how we’re going to use it to help address the pandemic.  We recognize
that signing the bill is just a first step.  And getting the money out
the door, ensuring people know how they can benefit, how it will help
their local communities is an important part as well.

Q    Fair to say you’re trying to shore up the strong support for the
law as it already exists?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would say the bill is already quite positive.  And
so — but what the President recognizes from his own experience is that
when it’s a package of this size, you know, people don’t always know how
they benefit and what it means for them. 

And last week, I was talking to him about one of the pieces of the
package — the checks — and he asked me to explain to him, “How do you
explain to people how checks get out the door?”  So this is what’s on
his mind.  Right?  How do people know how this money will help their
schools?  You know, how do they know, you know, how this will help get
vaccines in the arms of their friends and family members?  And he
believes the American people deserve every high-level person from our
administration out there explaining, discussing, taking input.  And
that’s what his team will be doing.

Q    So, while he does that, you know, there are a lot of Americans who
see him going to take these trips this week to promote this popular law
and think, “Okay, but why can’t he take time to go down to the border?” 
I know you said, last week, when — you’ve said it before: It takes a lot
of resources to get him there.  It’s taking a lot of resources to get
him to Pennsylvania and Georgia this week; the Vice President out west. 
Why not take the time to schedule something to go there as well?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would say that his focus is on developing solutions
— pushing his team, encouraging his team to develop solutions that will
expedite processing at the border, that will open more facilities, that
will ensure kids are treated with humanity and also treated safely.  And
that’s his focus.  And so that’s where he’s putting his efforts on
immigration.

Q    And what is the status of allowing cameras into some of these
facilities?  We’ve been asking for weeks about whether or not the press
will ever get a chance to see either the Border Patrol or the HHS
facilities.

MS. PSAKI:  We continue to support transparency and — from here, from
the White House.  And DHS oversees some of the facilities.  HHS oversees
some of the facilities.  I know that they’re working through how to
provide access in a way that is — abides by COVID protocols and also
protects the privacy of people who are being — who are staying in those
facilities.

Q    And just one Cuomo thing.  Has the President himself spoken to the
governor?

MS. PSAKI:  No.

Q    Has anyone here at the White House spoken to the governor?

MS. PSAKI:  Not that I’m aware of.  No.

Q    Thank you.

MS. PSAKI:  Go ahead.

Q    Thank you.  First, a question about workplace safety. OSHA is up
against a deadline set by President Biden to decide whether or not there
needs to be emergency temporary standards for COVID-19 safety for the
next six months.  Is there any concern that additional federal
regulations might end — the cost of complying with them might be a
burden on businesses already trying to — already struggling to survive?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, first, the President signed an executive order — which
I know you’re familiar with — but back, maybe the third day he was in
office, because he wants to ensure that workers are, of course, safe. 
He’s asked the American people to do their part to help quickly beat the
virus, and he’s directed OSHA to determine if any emergency — if an
emergency temporary standard was necessary to protect workers from
COVID. 

So his objective is actually to protect workers and members of the
workforce.  The OSHA has been working diligently, but we, of course,
believe they should have the time to get it right and time to ensure
it’s right, and so we’re waiting for them to make a conclusion.

Q    And as the voice of the White House, would it — how hard would it
be to convince people in some states that are trying to open up quickly
that there are new federal rules that they need to follow instead?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, there are no new federal rules yet.  We will let OSHA
put out their guidelines.  And then, of course, we will work to ensure
that people understand why, and that they support workers being safe,
which I think even many owners of businesses would support.

Q    And then, on immigration, does FEMA’s arrival at the border mean
that the administration feels what is happening down at the border is a
disaster?

MS. PSAKI:  I know that we always get into the fun of labels around
here, but I would say our focus is on solutions.  And this is one of the
steps that the President felt would help not become a final solution,
but help expedite processing; help ensure that people who are coming
across the border are — have access to health and medical care. 
Clearly, the numbers are enormous.  This is a big challenge, and it
certainly is a reflection of using every lever of the federal government
to help address that.

Q    But FEMA, though, specifically — their mission is helping people
before, during, and after disasters.  We’ve heard you say that it’s a
problem, that it’s a challenge.  Is it now a disaster?

MS. PSAKI:  I appreciate the opportunity.  I do like your mask.  But I
will say that FEMA is there to help ensure that the people who are at
the border, who are coming across the border, have access to — can — to
HHS and ORR shelters; that we can swiftly place them with vetted
families.  They’re playing a number of roles there to address what we
feel is a significant problem and a significant challenge.  And I think
we haven’t — we haven’t stepped — been hiding about that.

Q    And then, just a quick, final one.  DHS said that the FEMA plan for
90 days would be to receive, shelter, and transfer unaccompanied
children.  Does that mean that the federal government now is moving
beyond the message from the last couple weeks, which was: “Now is not
the time to come”?

MS. PSAKI:  No, we are — we are — we are doing both, and it’s a
complicated problem, no doubt about it.  We are sending the message
clearly in the region, “Now is not the time to come.”  But also, we want
to ensure that people are treated with humanity — who are children, who
are unaccompanied children.  That’s who we are as a country, and so we
are doing both.

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Jen.  Given what we’re seeing at state legislatures, in
terms of tightening voting restrictions, some groups are saying that the
White House should consider reprioritizing voting rights over
infrastructure.  Is that something that’s under consideration here at
the White House — to reprioritizing and focus on voting rights next —
now that the ARP is out?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, first, I would say that H.R. 1, as you all know, has
passed the House.  S. 1, I believe, will be, I think, put forward
officially later this week — or that’s what reports suggest.  We are
working closely with senators who we’ve engaged directly with on this,
with staff.  And we are very deeply engaged in working with members of
the Senate and their teams on how this can move forward.

I wouldn’t say one is over the other.  Voting rights and ensuring people
have access to voting — that it is easier, not harder — is a core
priority for the President.  That’s why his team is so engaged in this
process.  And, of course, investing in infrastructure; ensuring that we
can create good, clean energy, union jobs is also a priority.  You have
to walk and chew gum as President of the United States, and certainly he
believes both are imperative and important.

Q    And then, on infrastructure, would any — is there a concern that
any tax increases on the — as related to the package — that that would
slow down economic growth at all?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, there isn’t a package yet.  Right?  I know there’s
lots of conversations in Congress, and we’re certainly working very
closely with them in consultations.  And, obviously, the President will
have more to say about what he wants to pursue next as part of his Build
Back Better agenda. 

The President remains committed to his pledge from the campaign that
nobody making under $400,000 a year will have their taxes increased. 
His priority and focus has always been on people paying their fair share
and also focusing on corporations that may not be paying their fair
share either.  So that remains his overarching approach, but there isn’t
a package yet where we’re talking about payfors yet, so I expect we can
have more conversations about that down the road. 

Go ahead.

Q    Jen, thanks.  Two questions.  One, the Treasury Secretary said
yesterday that a wealth tax is something you haven’t decided on yet and
can look at.  Is that on the table as an approach to pay for some of the
next round of plans from the President?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, the — I know Senator Warren has put forward a wealth
tax, and the President shares her view that middle-class families are
paying more than their fair share and those at the top are not doing
their part.  So certainly he has that shared objective. 

He laid out, during the campaign, his own plans for fixing this, which
are different from Senator Warren’s.  But certainly, as we get to the
point about discussing taxes and tax reform — or reforms of the tax
system, that they share an objective. 

Q    But is that — just to be clear, the Treasury Secretary said it was
something you haven’t decided on yet.  Is that accurate, that
(inaudible)?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think it’s how to pursue.  What I’m conveying is
that there is a shared view that those at the top are not doing their
part — obviously, that corporations could be paying higher taxes.  That
continues to be consistent with what the President talked about. 

He had a different proposal he put forward than the one Senator Warren
has put forward, but, you know, as is always the case with democracy in
action, when it’s the appropriate time, I’m sure they’ll discuss and he
will discuss with others what their views are of how to address this
moving forward.

Q    And then, also, the EU is starting legal action against the United
Kingdom for not honoring Brexit conditions.  Does the U.S. support this
action?  And is the President particularly concerned, given his support
for the Good Friday Agreement?

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah, let me see if I have something on this for you, and if
not, I’m happy to get something for you after the briefing.

We continue to encourage both the European Union and the UK government
to prioritize pragmatic solutions to safeguard and advance the hard-won
peace in Northern Ireland.  We would, of course, encourage you to speak
to those governments directly about any legal actions.  President Biden
has been unequivocal in his support for the Belfast Good Friday
Agreement.  This agreement has been the bedrock of peace, stability, and
prosperity for all of the people of Northern Ireland, and we also
welcome cooperation between our British and Irish counterparts on the
Northern Irish bor- — Protocol.

Go ahead, Hans. 

Q    Just a quick housekeeping one. 

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.

Q    When does Gene start?

MS. PSAKI:  Hmm, let me see what I have here for you.  He’s currently —
I do know he’s currently in California, and so he’ll be rem- — working
remotely for a period of time until he has his vaccine.  Let me see if I
have a timeline for him.

I’ll check on that for you, Hans. 

Q    Okay.  Just a quick follow-up, and maybe on two.  But will he be in
the West Wing or the EEOB?

MS. PSAKI:  (Laughs.)  Where will his office be?

Q    Yes.

MS. PSAKI:  Well, he’ll be working remotely for some period of time.  He
— his title will be “White House American Rescue Plan Coordinator and
Senior Advisor to the President.”  Try to fit that on a card, I don’t
know.  Long one, but impressive.

He’ll work out of the White House and have a team working with him.  In
terms of where his office will be, I’m not sure that’s been formally
determined quite yet. 

Q    Okay.  And then, you know, Zeke’s question was, sort of: Does the
President have any opinions or, sort of, thoughts on how Americans
should be spending — that they’re getting their stimulus checks.  More
broadly speaking, all this money is going to be coursing through states
and localities and cities.  Does the President have any sort of
preferences?  Does he have any red lines of what they shouldn’t do?  If
there are any tax cuts, would that bother him?  How is he thinking about
the money once it goes out the door to states and localities?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, the original purpose of the state and local funding
was to keep cops, firefighters, other essential employees at work and
employed, and it wasn’t intended to cut taxes.  So I think he certainly
hopes that that’s how the funding is used. 

But part of the implementation of it will be under the purview of our
soon-to-be-starting coordinator and senior advisor to the President, and
I’m sure he’ll be focused on that. 

Q    You know, as money is coming into states and localities — and, in
some cases, it hasn’t been as disastrous it was maybe earlier thought it
might be, and the shortfall isn’t as great — some of the states and
localities could find themselves with surpluses. 

And so, I guess what you’re saying here is that the President and Gene,
by extension, would be opposed to any tax cuts that any states or
localities would pass through, that they’d rather have it be more on the
building front or more on the hiring front.  Is that — am I hearing you
correctly?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think the intention, as we’ve long talked about, was
to keep people in their jobs, in their roles.  If there are — like cops
and firefighters and others.  If there are surpluses, I’ll have to talk
to our NEC team if there’s — if — what considerations they have for that
particular issue. 

Go ahead.

Q    Thank you.  Appreciate it.  Just circling back to Governor Cuomo:
The Washington Post reported on Sunday that a top Cuomo advisor, who
also happens to be New York’s vaccine czar, called county officials to
gauge their loyalty to Cuomo amid his sexual harassment investigation. 
I wanted to see if the President is concerned that vaccine distribution
in New York has become politicized.  And is the administration taking
any steps to make sure that political favoritism is not tainted — is not
tainting access to vaccines for New Yorkers?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, first, let me say we all read those stories — one was
in your outlet; there are a number of other stories out there.  And
certainly we found them concerning about this inappropriate reported
behavior. 

There are a number of checks in the system, I will say.  The CDC has the
ability to track and monitor distribution.  And we’ve talked about this
a little bit before as it relates to equitable distribution of vaccine
supply.  And so every vaccine box is tracked, and we know where it’s
going.  And the CDC can track that and monitor.  And if there are — you
know, we work to ensure that it is equitably distributed and that there
are not steps that are taken that are concerning.

The other piece is that we work with local health officials across the
state.  Right?  We work with officials, you know, who are overseeing
distribution in all of the different cities, localities to ensure that
they are getting what they need, that there are no breaks in the
system.  And we are engaged across the board, especially in a state like
New York, and we certainly track any concerns that come up. 

So, you know, there — we were concerned, of course, about the reports of
this inappropriate behavior, but we also have a number of steps that are
already in the system to ensure that the people of New York, the people
of any state, you know, are getting — the vaccines are distributed
fairly and equitably.

Q    So given those reports over the weekend, did you take any extra
steps to take another look at — especially in New York?  Because the
allegation is quite concerning, I would think, for not only on New
Yorkers, but all Americans.

MS. PSAKI:  Of course, we are constantly monitoring.  I’m not — I’ve not
been made aware of any incidents that have been raised in relation to
this report.  There are regular reports out of states that we take a
look at, even before this report.  But if there is — I can see, with our
team, if there’s anything new as it relates to this report from this
weekend.

Q    And then, also, you know, on Cuomo — just following up from an
earlier question — it’s our understanding that Governor Cuomo not ju- —
he doesn’t merely participate in these calls — in these COVID calls, but
he is — in fact, leads them and is a big player in terms of organizing
them.  And so we’re curious if the President has any concerns with that
— with his, sort of, level of leadership over this critical piece in,
you know, the COVID response.

MS. PSAKI:  Well, it would be up to the NGA to determine if they were to
make a change on that front.  It’s also up to the legislature and others
in New York to determine if they’re — if he still has the confidence of
the people in the state. 

But our focus from here, from the federal government, is, of course,
supporting that independent investigation, which we adamantly do, but
also working with governors across the country — with the NGA, with the
DGA, with others — to address issues that come up, or hear from them and
listen to them and work with them on COVID — on addressing COVID,
getting the pandemic under control, et cetera.  And we will continue to
work with a range of governors across the country.

Q    Under the Trump administration, it was not set up this way.  My
understanding is, under the Trump administration, Vice President Pence
was doing theses weekly calls.  And this has been a shift to go from
Pence to somebody like Governor Cuomo in this point in time.  I’m
wondering if perhaps the White House wants to shift it back towards the
White House or away from the NGA, which happens to be led by a governor
who has a lot of things going on in his state at the moment. 

MS. PSAKI:  Well, one of the reasons that it’s been set up to engage
directly with governors is that there were operational aspects of the
way the last administration approached COVID and — approached COVID —
the distribution of vaccines or approached planning and engagement with
governors that wasn’t working.  They didn’t feel they had the
information they needed.  They didn’t know when they were getting
vaccine supply.  And our effort was to work much more directly in a
range of means, in a range of ways up and down the ranks in these states
to ensure that we were addressing the local needs as they came up.  So
I’m not aware of any plan to shift that approach. 

Q    But the administration is comfortable with Cuomo essentially
leading these weekly calls?

MS. PSAKI:  Again, this is up to — I think he’s in that position because
he is head of the NGA.  And it’s up to the NGA to determine if that’s
where they want to see things, moving forward.

Q    Okay.  Just quickly, on immigration: Given the FEMA deployment to
the border, I wanted to see if the administration is going to ask
Congress for any additional emergency money to secure the border or fund
resources to house or provide additional care for children who are
there.

MS. PSAKI:  The problems, as I’ve — one, there’s an immigration bill
that we’ve certainly proposed that we hope that members of both parties
will take seriously and engage in a constructive conversation about. 
The issues and challenges we’re facing are not fully — are not solely
about funding at all.  But I’m not aware of additional requests for
immediate funding.  I’m happy to check on that as well.

Q    And then one absolute last question.

MS. PSAKI:  Go ahead.

Q    This is related to some appointments at the Department of Justice. 
My colleague, Nancy Cook of Bloomberg News, wrote a story last week, I
believe, noting that liberal groups are growing concerned that there are
a number of attorneys who are being appointed to top positions who have
a background of defending large companies, including connections to
Apple and Facebook.  And these groups are asking that some of these
attorneys recuse themselves in matters of antitrust matters. 

I’m just wondering if the administration or the White House shares that
concern and is considering asking them to recuse themselves on some of
these larger, big-tech, antitrust matters that will be coming up,
presumably.

MS. PSAKI:  I’d have to look at it more closely.  It may be a decision
for the Department of Justice to make, but I will look more closely and
see if we have a view from the White House about recusals. 

Go ahead.  Go ahead.

Q    Thank you. 

MS. PSAKI:  Oh, okay — go ahead.  Go ahead, in the back.  Go ahead, in
the back. 

Q    Thank you very much, Jen.  A quick follow-up on the border.  Does
President Biden plan to visit the border?

MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have any trips to preview for you at this point in
time.  If we do, we will certainly preview them.

Q    Something he’s considering or talking about?

MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have anything to preview for you.

Q    Okay.  Going back to the vaccine: I know you say the goal is to
vaccinate Americans first.  But I want to go back to the AstraZeneca
supply sitting here in the U.S. without approval.  Many countries are
seeking — Brazil is also seeking access to the supply.  Brazil is in
urgent need.  Scientists around the world are saying that Brazil is a
threat to the world right now — the situation there, the crisis there. 
Dr.  Fauci said last week that the most important thing to do in Brazil
is to get more people vaccinated as soon as possible.  But Brazil is
struggling. 

So would the — when can we expect that these countries that need it
right now and can use right now — because they have the approval there —
when can we expect they can have access to maybe this supply?  Maybe in
June or July?  Can you — what —

MS. PSAKI:  Well, we are engaged with a range of countries — I’m certain
with Brazil as well — about their requests.  And we are, of course,
focused; the President is focused on ensuring that all Americans — all
adult Americans are vaccinated.  That’s the first objective here.

But we are looking forward to being, you know, players in the global
community’s effort to address the global pandemic.  There was a
significant amount — announcement made on Friday coming out of the Quad
summit about supply that we have agreed to work with the Quad members to
provide to a range of countries and regions.  And we are certainly open
to discussing and considering, you know, when we can provide additional
supply.

But I don’t have anything to preview for you or predict in terms of the
timeline.

Q    Which —

MS. PSAKI:  We’re going to have to just go on because we — otherwise
we’re not going to get to everybody.

Go ahead.

Q    So, a new poll from NPR and Marist said that nearly half of
Republican men won’t get the vaccine when it’s available to them.  And I
know that last week you said that the Democratic administration might
not always be the best messenger to communicate to everyone, kind of,
the importance and the benefits of getting the vaccine. 

So I just wanted to ask if the White House is making plans to try to
boost Republican receptivity to the vaccine.  And can you share what any
of those ideas are?

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  First, the President’s goal is to vaccinate all
Americans, not just those who voted for him.  Right now, the phase we’re
in is that demand for the vaccine still outstrips supply.  We won’t be
in that phase forever, but right now the big issue is access and people
wanting to have access to the vaccine.  And so we’re focusing on how to
make it as convenient and accessible for Americans as possible.

And I talked about this very briefly last week, but we know we need to
meet everyone where they are, and that includes conservatives and ensure
there are trusted messengers who lead the way in those engagements. 
Eighty-one percent of Republicans said they would trust their own doctor
or healthcare provider — in some polling that came out this weekend — to
provide reliable information about a COVID-19 vaccine. 

You know, this is consistent with what I was conveying last week in some
of the data that we’ve seen internally about how, yes, there are a
number of prominent officials out there who, if they were more vocal
about getting the vaccine, we’d certainly support that.  But also,
doctors and local healthcare providers are — we see, poll after poll,
are the most — one of the most trusted authorities in communities,
regardless of people’s political affiliation, as are religious leaders
and local leaders as well.

So we are very mindful of that and thinking of ways to support, empower,
you know, help fund those efforts.  We’re also meeting regularly with
conservative groups, faith leaders, and rural stakeholders to partner
with them in boosting vaccine confidence.

But I also have a couple of examples that I found interesting; hopefully
you do as well.  You know, we are focused on earned media and
establishing partnerships with trusted messengers right now.  We will
quickly move to a public — a big public campaign, which will be run out
of HHS.  There’s even some funding in the American Rescue Plan for that
that will be a part of it, that hopefully we’ll have more to say on in a
couple of weeks.

But some — a couple of examples: Tomorrow, Dr. Fauci and Dr. Collins
will be hosting an event with evangelical leaders to discuss the vaccine
and how we can partner with them.  Dr.  Collins has appeared on “The 700
Club.”  We also have done, of course, a range of engagements with
different communities where there’s vaccine hesitancy.  Dr. Nunez-Smith
on “The Shade Room.” Dr. Fauci did an interview with Gloria Estefan,
which now I want to go find and watch myself, as I’m sure many of you
do. 

So we are trying to be creative on earned media to meet people where
they are, but we’re also mindful of empowering, supporting local trusted
voices because we’ve seen that in poll after poll to be an effective way
of reaching a range of communities.

Q    And Dr. Fauci said recently that former President Trump getting
involved in this would be a game changer for encouraging Republicans to
take the vaccine.  Do you guys agree?  And does President Biden want to
see Trump get involved in this messaging?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, if former President Trump woke up tomorrow and wanted
to be more vocal about the safety and efficacy of the campaign — of the
vaccine, certainly we’d support that.  But also, I think what’s
important to note is that, as I noted, 81 percent of Republicans said
they would trust their own doctor or healthcare provider, and that’s an
important place to invest.

Every other living former President — or most of them, if not all of
them — has participated in public campaigns.  They did not need an
engraved invitation to do so.  So he may decide he should do that.  If
so, great.  But there are a lot of different ways to engage, to reach
out, to ensure that people of a range of political support and backing
know the vaccine is safe and — safe and effective.

Go ahead, Yamiche.

Q    Thanks so much.  First question is back on the border.  There were
lawyers who interviewed some children that were in facilities.  The
children described sleeping on the floor, being hungry, not being — not
seeing the sun for days.  How is that acceptable for the Biden
administration to keep children in those sorts of conditions given the
fact that you said you — you were going to be the administration that
was going to be more humane than the previous one?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, these — let me first say this is heartbreaking.  It’s
a very emotional issue for a lot of people, and it’s very difficult and
challenging.  And obviously, these CBP facilities are not made for
kids.  So one of the reasons — or a driving reason why the President has
pushed to take all of the actions that I outlined earlier when Phil
asked the question is because we want to expedite getting these kids out
of these CBP facilities as quickly as possible — and that’s our goal and
our objective — and into shelters as quickly as possible, then into
sponsored homes while their cases are being considered and adjudicated. 

We are trying to work through what was a dismantled and unprepared
system because of the eff- — the role of the last administration.  It’s
going to take some time, but we are very clear-eyed about what the
problems are and very focused on putting forward solutions.

Q    And I understand the idea of these facilities not being designed by
children.  But children being hungry, sleeping on the floor, not being
allowed outside for days at a time — why is that acceptable to go on
even for one more day?  Why is that something that’s not being outlawed
right now?  How is the administration not stopping that today?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, Yamiche, it’s not acceptable.  But I think the
challenge here is that there are only — there are not that many
options.  So the options are — and we have a lot of critics, but many of
them are not putting forward a lot of solutions.  The options here are:
Send the kids back on the journey, send them to unvetted homes, or work
to expedite moving them into shelters where they can get health
treatment by medical doctors, by — educational resources, legal
counseling, mental health counseling.  That’s exactly what we’re focused
on doing.  And this is an across-the-administration effort that we are
committed, from the top, to making changes on as quickly as possible.

Q    You just talked about vaccine hesitancy.  I know you said that
there are going to be resources for Dr. Fauci and others in the
administration to go out and reach out to trusted sources. 

Based on polling and conversation with the experts, the government is
not the answer for reaching a lot of the GOP — men, in particular — that
were found to be hesitant of the vaccine.  Is it a waste of time to have
those officials go there?  And are there other things that the
government should be doing that maybe are different than having the face
of the people that many of these voters don’t trust, being the ones
talking to them?

MS. PSAKI:  I don’t mean to cut you off, but I think I just answered
this exact question earlier with some of the specific steps we’re taking
and examples of people we’re putting forward in our efforts to
empower/support local medical doctors, experts, who are very powerful
and impactful voices in a range of communities. 

So that’s exactly we’re doing, and I could not agree with you more.  We
agree with you, you know, that it’s not — we are not always the right
voice — the Biden administration or somebody standing at this podium —
to a range of conservative communities.  And we have to meet people
where they are, which is why we’re taking a number of approaches and
using a number of tactics.

Q    But what do you make of black leaders — some black experts saying
that there was too much focus on the hesitancy in the African American
community and that might be used as an excuse for not having enough
access to black — to black people in this country; that this
administration and others focus too much on black people and their
hesitancy for the vaccine?

MS. PSAKI:  I may not be understanding your question.  We’re not perfect
—

Q    So I would say, as law- — leaders say that black — black people’s
hesitancy to the vaccine might be used as an excuse for low vaccination
rates, as well as access to the vaccine.  So there are some that are
saying when you talk too much about African American people and their
hesitation to the vaccine that that then becomes an excuse.  That those
are — the arguments that African American leaders and others are making
right now.

MS. PSAKI:  An excuse within the community or an excuse for us?

Q    It is — yeah, an excuse for the administration and others to say
black people aren’t getting vaccinated at higher rates because they’re
hesitant.

MS. PSAKI:  I would say that we — we just look at the data.  Our
objective is to ensure that all American adults have access to the
vaccine, are vaccinated, and that we are doing everything we can to
reach communities and people where they are. 

So that’s — our approach has been based on the data and the statistics
we were looking at.  We have taken a number of steps — including putting
forward — supporting more community health centers, now there are 900
mobile clinics to get into communities, mass vaccination sites — to
ensure that the vaccine is accessible and in a range of communities
where we did, through data, see hesitancy. 

So I would just refute that; I don’t think that’s an accurate
description of our approach. 

I know we have to wrap this up here because I think you guys have to
gather for the event, but —

Q    Well, just one — just while you’re up here, there’s some news out
of Dallas that CBP and FEMA are setting up a detention center at the
convention center that would house 300 migrant children —

Q    Three thousand.

Q    Excuse me, 3,000 migrant immigrant — immigrant teenagers. 

MS. PSAKI:  Mm-hmm.

Q    Is that consistent with the administration’s stated values?  And
how — what protections are being put in place in that facility to make
sure that these teenagers are cared for?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I’d have to look at the specific report.  I would say
that we have been looking at additional facilities to open to move
children — unaccompanied children into facilities where they can receive
access to healthcare, educational resources, mental health resources,
legal resources.  And certainly, we would ensure that we are meeting the
standard that we have set out, but I’d have to check into those specific
reports since they happened while we were up here. 

Q    Thank you, Jen.

MS. PSAKI:  Thank you everyone.

1:30 P.M. EDT
