---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-03-05'
modified_time: 2021-03-05 13:35:21-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/03/05/white-house-announces-additional-policy-staff/
published_time: 2021-03-05 08:29:50-05:00
title: White House Announces Additional Policy Staff
---
 
Today, President Biden and Vice President Harris announced the
appointments of additional policy staff who will serve with the White
House COVID Response Team, Domestic Climate Policy Office, Domestic
Policy Council, and National Economic Council. These qualified,
impressive, and dedicated individuals reflect the diversity and strength
of America and will play critical roles advancing the Biden-Harris
Administration’s commitment to tackling the crises we face and building
back our country better.

Biographies of the appointees are listed below in alphabetical order and
by White House office:

**<u>COVID Response Team</u>**

**Charles Anderson, Director of Economic Policy and Budget for the
COVID-19 Response Team**

Charlie Anderson has most recently served as the Senior Advisor for Tax
and Economic Policy to Senator Michael Bennet of Colorado, developing
policies to reduce child poverty, curb evictions, reform unemployment
insurance, enact automatic stabilizers, and address the COVID-19
pandemic. Prior to that, he served in the Obama-Biden Administration as
Special Assistant to the President for Economic Policy and Senior
Advisor to the Director at the White House National Economic Council
from 2014 to 2017; in various capacities at the Department of the
Treasury from 2010 to 2013; and at the White House Domestic Policy
Council from 2009 to 2010. He was also the Deputy Field Director in
Georgia for the Obama-Biden 2008 campaign. Born in New York and raised
in North Carolina, Anderson is a graduate of the University of North
Carolina at Chapel Hill and Harvard’s Kennedy School.

**Sam Berger, Director of Strategic Operations and Policy for the
COVID-19 Response Team**

Prior to joining the Biden-Harris Administration, Sam Berger was Vice
President for Democracy and Government Reform at the Center for American
Progress. During the Obama-Biden administration, he served as a senior
policy adviser at the White House Domestic Policy Council, where his
work focused on the Affordable Care Act and Medicaid, as well as at the
Office of Management and Budget in various roles, including senior
counselor and policy adviser. Born in Buffalo, New York, Berger is a
graduate of Swarthmore College and Yale Law School. He lives in
Washington, D.C. with his wife and two children.

**Domestic Climate Policy Council (DCPC)**

**Philip Giudice, Special Assistant to the President for Climate
Policy**

Phil Giudice has more than 40 years’ experience in the energy industry
as a geologist, consultant, entrepreneur, executive, CEO, board director
and state energy official. Phil served as Massachusetts Undersecretary
of Energy and was Treasurer and Vice Chair for the Regional Greenhouse
Gas Initiative (RGGI), board chair National Association of State Energy
Officials and member of DOEs State Energy Advisory Board, Energy
Efficiency and Renewables Advisory Committee and EPA/DOE’s State Energy
Efficiency Action Network.  Phil earned geology degrees from University
of New Hampshire and University of Arizona and an MBA at the Tuck School
at Dartmouth.  Phil is the father of two grown sons as well as the
grandfather of two toddlers who provide enormous joy and delight in his
life. 

**<u>Domestic Policy Council (DPC)</u>**

**Chiraag Bains, Special Assistant to the President for Criminal
Justice**  
Chiraag Bains was recently the Director of Legal Strategies at Demos, a
national public policy organization where he led voting rights
litigation and advocacy across the country. Before that, he was a senior
fellow at Harvard Law School and at the Open Society Foundations. From
2010 to 2017, Bains served in the Justice Department’s Civil Rights
Division, first as a prosecutor of civil rights crimes and then as
senior counsel to the Assistant Attorney General. He was a member of the
team that investigated and sued Ferguson, Missouri, for constitutional
violations. Bains clerked for the Honorable Karen Nelson Moore on the
Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals and Judge Nancy Gertner in the District
of Massachusetts. He graduated from Yale College, the University of
Cambridge, and Harvard Law School.

**Kelliann Blazek, Special Assistant to the President for Agriculture
and Rural Policy**

Kelliann Blazek most recently served as the first director of
Wisconsin’s Office of Rural Prosperity, created by Governor Tony Evers
in 2020 to support the state’s rural communities. Previously, Blazek
worked as counsel to Congresswoman Chellie Pingree and taught food law
and policy at the Antonin Scalia Law School. She has also worked at the
Harvard Food Law and Policy Clinic and the National Sustainable
Agriculture Coalition. Blazek holds a Juris Doctor degree from the
University of Wisconsin Law School and grew up on her family’s farm in
Wisconsin.

**Pronita Gupta, Special Assistant to the President for Labor and
Workers**

Most recently, Pronita Gupta was the director of job quality for the
Center for Law and Social Policy (CLASP). Prior to joining CLASP, she
served as the deputy director of the Women’s Bureau in the U.S.
Department of Labor under President Obama. She also previously served as
senior director of programs for the Women Donors Network (WDN) as well
as research director for Asian Americans/Pacific Islanders in
Philanthropy. Gupta also served as research director for SCOPE/AGENDA in
Los Angeles, and for the Living Wage Campaign at the LA Alliance for a
New Economy (LAANE).  Early in her career she served as executive
director of Institute for Southern Studies and legislative director for
the U.S. Student Association. Raised in Rochester, NY, Gupta holds an
MPA from Columbia University and a BA in Government from Clark
University.

**Catherine Oakar, Special Assistant to the President for Community
Public Health and Disparities**

Catherine Oakar most recently served on the Biden-Harris Transition. She
was also a Senior Advisor at Waxman Strategies consulting on public
health, nutrition, and health care issues. During the Obama-Biden
Administration, she served at the White House as the Associate Director
of the *Let’s Move!* initiative in the First Lady’s office and as a
Senior Advisor in the Office of National AIDS Policy. Oakar was also the
Director of Public Health Policy in the Office of Health Reform at the
U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. She began her work in
Washington, D.C. as a Winston Health Policy Fellow. She has also
conducted community-based research with low-income cancer survivors and
safety net clinics. Oakar graduated from the University of Notre Dame
and the University of Michigan School of Public Health. She is
originally from outside Cleveland, Ohio.

**Alex Pascal, Special Assistant to the President and Executive
Secretary for the Domestic Policy Council**

Alex Pascal previously served on the National Security Council (NSC)
staff at the White House in various roles, including as Senior Director
of the NSC Executive Secretariat, and as Senior Policy Adviser to the
U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations. Most recently, Pascal was a
Non-Resident Scholar at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace
and an adjunct faculty member at New York University. He is a graduate
of Stanford University and Johns Hopkins School of Advanced
International Studies.

**Erin Pelton, Special Assistant to the President and Senior Advisor to
the Domestic Policy Advisor**  
Before joining the Biden-Harris Administration, Erin Pelton co-founded
Puerto Rico Live, a social enterprise that connected U.S. thought
leaders to Puerto Rico, and was a principal at Pinpoint Strategies. A
U.S. Foreign Service Officer until 2014, Erin served as Director of
Communications and Spokesperson at the United States Mission to the
United Nations; Assistant Press Secretary and Director of Communications
and Media Relations at the National Security Council; Deputy
Spokesperson for the Bureau of Near Eastern Affairs at the U.S.
Department of State, and overseas at the U.S. Embassies in Mexico and
Saudi Arabia. She holds an M.S. in Foreign Service from Georgetown
University and a B.A. in international affairs and Spanish from Drake
University.

**Erika Poethig, Special Assistant to the President for Housing and
Urban Policy**

Before joining the Biden-Harris Administration, Erika Poethig was Chief
Innovation Officer and Vice President for the Research to Action Lab at
the Urban Institute, a social and economic policy research organization
founded by President Lyndon Baines Johnson.  In the Obama-Biden
Administration, she held several positions including Acting Assistant
Secretary for the Office of Policy Development and Research at the U.S.
Department of Housing and Urban Development and was a leading architect
of the White House Council for Strong Cities, Strong Communities.
Poethig led housing policy portfolios at the John D. and Catherine T.
MacArthur Foundation and at the City of Chicago’s Department of Housing.
 Poethig graduated from The College of Wooster and the University of
Chicago Harris School of Public Policy.  

**Donald K. Sherman, Special Assistant to the President for Racial and
Economic Justice**

Prior to joining the Biden-Harris Administration, Donald K. Sherman was
Deputy Director of Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington,
a non-partisan government accountability watchdog. Sherman previously
served in various roles, including as Chief Oversight Counsel, to the
late Rep. Elijah E. Cummings on the House Oversight Committee as and as
Senior Counsel to Senator Claire McCaskill on the Senate Homeland
Security and Governmental Affairs Committee. Sherman served in the
Obama-Biden Administration, as Chief of Staff and Senior Counsel for
Oversight and Investigations in the Office of General Counsel at the
Department of Housing and Urban Development. A native of Queens, NY,
Sherman earned his BA from Georgetown University and his JD from the
Georgetown University Law Center. He currently resides in Washington,
D.C. with his wife and kids.

**Terri Tanielian, Special Assistant to the President for Veterans
Affairs**

Terri Tanielian is a nationally recognized expert in veteran policy as
well as mental health policy. Most recently, she served as a Senior
Behavioral Scientist at the RAND Corporation where she led several
landmark studies examining the needs of military service members,
veterans, their families, and their caregivers. She has expertise in
suicide prevention, sexual assault prevention and response, and
behavioral health. In 2019, she served as a RAND Congressional Fellow
with the House Committee on Veterans Affairs where she informed
evidence-based policy making designed to reduce veteran suicide. She has
also served on several national advisory committees related to improving
mental health responses to disasters, terrorist incidents, and public
health emergencies.  She has more than 100 peer-reviewed publications on
topics ranging from improving access to and quality of mental health and
substance use treatment, improving public health emergency preparedness
and response, and improving support systems for veterans, military
families, and caregivers. Born in upstate New York, Tanielian graduated
from Boston University and received her Master of Arts degree from The
American University.

**Maureen Tracey-Mooney, Special Assistant to the President for
Education**

Maureen Tracey-Mooney worked on the domestic policy team on the
Biden-Harris Transition and supported the development of President
Biden’s PK-12 agenda. Previously, she worked on President Obama’s
campaign and transition. She served as then-Vice President Biden’s
Deputy Domestic Policy Advisor in the first term of the Obama-Biden
Administration, working on education, labor and other issues. In that
role she supported the development of the Obama-Biden Administration’s
successful Race to the Top Early Learning Challenge and President
Obama’s Preschool for All plan. She left the Vice President’s office to
earn her MPA from Princeton University and transition to local education
work. Immediately before joining the transition she worked for the
Newark Board of Education in New Jersey, where her work focused on the
development of new teachers. Originally from Ohio, Maureen graduated
from the University of Chicago; her life is possible because a generous
friend gave her a kidney.

**Justin Vail, Special Assistant to the President for Democracy and
Civic Participation**  
Justin Vail most recently managed policy development and advocacy
initiatives at Protect Democracy. During the Obama-Biden Administration,
he served at the White House as the Deputy Director of Private Sector
Engagement. Vail also served as an aide to Senator Claire McCaskill and
clerked for the Honorable Rodney W. Sippel of the U.S. District Court
for the Eastern District of Missouri and the Honorable James F.
Holderman of the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of
Illinois. Originally from Missouri, Vail graduated from Truman State
University and Washington University School of Law.

**Libby Washburn, Special Assistant to the President for Native
Affairs**

Prior to joining the Biden-Harris Administration, Libby Washburn served
in senior leadership roles at New Mexico State University and the
University of New Mexico, focusing on building compliance structures and
strengthening ethics requirements and Title IX processes. Previously she
worked in the Obama-Biden Administration at the U.S. Department of the
Interior. Washburn worked for Sen. Jeff Bingaman, serving as both the
State Director and Legislative Counsel. She practiced Native American
law for several years for the federal government and in private
practice. Washburn graduated from the University of Oklahoma and
University of New Mexico School of Law. She is a citizen of the
Chickasaw Nation of Oklahoma.

**National Economic Council (NEC)**

**Leandra English, Special Assistant to the President and Chief of Staff
for the National Economic Council**

Leandra English was the Director of Policy for the New York State
Department of Financial Services where she managed the department’s
portfolio of policy initiatives involving consumers, financial services,
and other issues. Prior to joining DFS, she served in a variety of roles
at the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau including Acting Director,
Chief of Staff, and Deputy Chief Operating Officer. In addition, Leandra
held senior roles at the U.S. Office of Management and Budget (OMB) and
the U.S. Office of Personnel Management (OPM).  English also previously
served as Director of Financial Services Advocacy for the Consumer
Federation of America (CFA) in Washington D.C. She received her B.A.
from New York University and a M.S. from the London School of Economics.

**Seth D. Harris, Deputy Assistant to the President for Labor and
Economy**

Seth D. Harris was the Biden-Harris campaign’s principal labor policy
advisor and a member of the Labor Department transition team. He was
Acting Secretary of Labor and Deputy U.S. Secretary of Labor from 2009
to 2014 and served for six and one-half years in the Labor Department
during the Clinton Administration. Harris is an attorney, business
advisor, and former trade unionist. He also is a Visiting Professor at
Cornell University’s Institute for Public Affairs. He has co-authored
three books and authored scholarly articles and op-eds on labor,
employment, leadership, retirement, and economics. A native New Yorker
who currently lives in Maryland, Harris earned a bachelor of science
degree from Cornell University’s School of Industrial & Labor Relations
and a juris doctor from New York University’s School of Law.

**Daniel Hornung, Special Assistant to the President for Economic
Policy**

Daniel Hornung most recently served as a judicial law clerk to Judge
Merrick Garland on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit.
During the Obama-Biden Administration, Hornung served as Special
Assistant to the President and Senior Policy Advisor, focused on climate
policy, economic policy, and judicial nominations. Prior to that, he
worked in the Office of Management and Budget. A native of Chicago,
Hornung has also been a fellow at Chicago CRED, an organization focused
on reducing gun violence and creating economic opportunity in Chicago
neighborhoods. Hornung holds a J.D. from Yale Law School and a B.A. in
economics and political science from Yale College. He and his wife live
in Washington, D.C.

**Elisabeth Reynolds, Special Assistant to the President for
Manufacturing and Economic Development**

Elisabeth Reynolds is a principal research scientist and executive
director of the MIT Industrial Performance Center as well as a lecturer
in MIT’s Department of Urban Studies and Planning (DUSP). Prior to
joining MIT, Reynolds was the director of the City Advisory Practice at
the Initiative for a Competitive Inner City (ICIC), a non-profit focused
on job and business growth in urban areas. She has been actively engaged
in efforts to rebuild manufacturing capabilities in the U.S., most
recently as a member of the Massachusetts Advanced Manufacturing
Collaborative. She is a graduate of Harvard College and holds a Master’s
in Economics from the University of Montreal as well as a PhD from MIT
DUSP.

**Samantha Silverberg, Special Assistant to the President for
Transportation and Infrastructure Policy**

Samantha Silverberg served on the Biden-Harris transition team as a
volunteer on the domestic and economic policy team and on two Agency
Review Teams. Previously, she served as Deputy Chief Administrative
Officer and Senior Director of Capital Planning at the Massachusetts Bay
Transportation Authority. Silverberg began her public service as a
Presidential Management Fellow at the Office of Management and Budget
and U.S. Department of Transportation.  Silverberg is a graduate of the
University of Virginia and holds a Master in Public Policy from
Harvard’s Kennedy School of Government. Originally from Queens, NY, she
currently resides in the Boston area with her husband and son.

**Tim Wu, Special Assistant to the President for Technology and
Competition Policy**

Tim Wu was most recently a Professor at Columbia University law school.
He previously served as senior enforcement counsel to the New York
Attorney General, as a senior advisor at the Federal Trade Commission,
and an advisor at the National Economic Council.   He was also a law
clerk for Stephen Breyer of the United States Supreme Court and Richard
Posner of the Seventh Circuit Court of Appeals. Born in Washington D.C.,
Wu is a graduate of McGill University and Harvard Law School. He lives
in New York City with his wife and two daughters.

\###
