---
date: '2024-11-26'
modified_time: 2024-11-26 10:57:13-05:00
published_time: 2024-11-26 12:00:00-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/blog/2024/11/26/the-biden-harris-administration-has-catalyzed-1-trillion-in-new-u-s-private-sector-clean-energy-semiconductor-and-other-advanced-manufacturing-investment/
tags: blog
title: "The Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Has Catalyzed $1 Trillion in New U.S.\
  \ Private Sector Clean Energy, Semiconductor, and Other Advanced Manufacturing\_\
  Investment"
---
 
*Heather Boushey, Chief Economist, Investing in America Cabinet*

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Biden-Harris Administration’s Investing in America agenda is
[making](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/07/Economics-of-Investing-in-America.pdf)
strategic public investments in American manufacturing, infrastructure,
and clean energy to revitalize the nation’s manufacturing leadership,
help drive [steady and
stable](https://www.whitehouse.gov/cea/written-materials/2024/09/26/revisions-show-us-economy-grew-faster-2021-23-boosting-real-incomes/)
economic
[growth](https://www.brookings.edu/articles/place-based-industrial-strategy-responds-to-past-and-future-industrial-and-labor-market-shocks/)
across the country, and
[address](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/08/15/by-the-numbers-the-inflation-reduction-act/)
the climate crisis. The President’s approach revives [a powerful
tradition of public
investment](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/10/13/remarks-on-executing-a-modern-american-industrial-strategy-by-nec-director-brian-deese/)
which has now
[positioned](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/06/28/bidenomics-is-working-the-presidents-plan-grows-the-economy-from-the-middle-out-and-bottom-up-not-the-top-down/)
the United States to be competitive in key industries of the future.
This government-enabled, private-sector-led approach contributed to the
economy
[defying](https://www.whitehouse.gov/cea/written-materials/2024/09/17/beating-the-forecasts-how-the-us-economy-defied-expectations/)
economist
[expectations](https://www.whitehouse.gov/cea/written-materials/2024/10/30/gdp-issue-brief/)
and is [crowding
in](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/blog/2023/08/16/the-economics-of-public-investment-crowding-in-private-investment/)
private capital to critical sectors. New
[data](https://www.whitehouse.gov/invest/?utm_source=invest.gov)
released this week show that since President Biden and Vice President
Harris took office, announcements of private sector investments in clean
energy and manufacturing in the United States have now surpassed $1
trillion (Figure 1).

<figure>
<img
src="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/11/Picture1_09cdc5.png"
class="wp-image-109709" decoding="async" loading="lazy"
sizes="(max-width: 975px) 100vw, 975px"
srcset="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/11/Picture1_09cdc5.png 975w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/11/Picture1_09cdc5.png?resize=615,476 615w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/11/Picture1_09cdc5.png?resize=768,594 768w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/11/Picture1_09cdc5.png?resize=414,320 414w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/11/Picture1_09cdc5.png?resize=828,640 828w"
width="975" height="754" />
</figure>

The landmark pieces of legislation that make up the Investing in America
agenda – [the Bipartisan Infrastructure
Law](https://www.whitehouse.gov/build/guidebook/), [the CHIPS and
Science
Act](https://www.nist.gov/system/files/documents/2023/02/28/Vision_for_Success-Commercial_Fabrication_Facilities.pdf),
and [the Inflation Reduction
Act](https://www.whitehouse.gov/cleanenergy/inflation-reduction-act-guidebook/)—were
designed together and are being implemented together. They include grant
and loan programs, tax credits, and other policies to catalyze private
investment in the earliest stages of research and development through
commercial-scale manufacturing. These investments will [drive
innovation](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/10/National_Innovation_Pathway_of_the_United_States_2024_final.pdf)
and productivity that fosters American economic competitiveness and
energy security, while delivering good jobs and benefitting communities
across the country. They improve our nation’s infrastructure, so
investing in the United States is more attractive to companies
worldwide. And, they will help bring down the costs of key technologies,
benefiting American workers, businesses, and families.

The Bipartisan Infrastructure Law provides billions in foundational
investments in infrastructure, such as roads, highways, bridges,
drinking water and wastewater systems, with [$568 billion
announced](https://www.whitehouse.gov/build/?utm_source=build.gov) for
over 66,000 projects so far. The CHIPS and Science Act provides $39
billion in grants and other incentives to semiconductor companies to
build fabrication plants and produce cutting-edge technology in the
United States—of which $34 billion worth of preliminary agreements have
been announced. And the Inflation Reduction Act includes [tax
credits](https://www.whitehouse.gov/cleanenergy/clean-energy-tax-provisions/),
grants, and loans to spur investment and comprehensive deployment of
clean energy, including the manufacturing of battery components and
critical minerals right here at home. Core to the Investing in America
model is sending clear demand signals, addressing supply-side
constraints, and solving coordination problems, all while strengthening
and supporting [Made in
America](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/07/24/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administrations-progress-creating-a-future-made-in-america/)
domestic capacity.

This blog lays out the industrial strategy approach of the Biden-Harris
Administration and how that has crowded-in private investment—especially
to places that need it the most—leveraging public dollars for
much-needed economic growth and the creation of good jobs.

## Investment

To see how the Investing in American agenda is crowding in U.S. private
sector investment in critical sectors, this blog examines two types of
data: firms’ announced plans to invest and how those are being followed
up by actual investment. The White House tracks private-sector
announcements and their U.S. geographic location on
[invest.gov](/Users/AVRajan2/AppData/Local/Microsoft/Windows/INetCache/Content.Outlook/YX6E9HAF/invest.gov).
The datapoints show that announced investments now total over $1
trillion. Of this total, $446 billion are for semiconductors and
electronics, $91 billion for clean energy manufacturing, $182 billion
for electric vehicles and batteries, $54 billion for biomanufacturing,
$49 billion for heavy industry, and $188 billion for clean power.
Altogether, nearly $800 billion has been announced for manufacturing
projects, strengthening domestic production and creating more resilient
supply chains. The invest.gov data are similar to other trackers of
private announcements and investments, such as the [Clean Investment
Monitor](https://www.cleaninvestmentmonitor.org/), which focuses on
clean technology investment and reiterates an unprecedented increase in
clean energy investment since the Inflation Reduction Act was signed.

Announced investments are an indication of planned future economic
activity; we still need to track when dollars actually flow into
communities. While firms’ planned expenditures are not tracked in
available public data, the Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA) provides an
aggregate measure of how much investment is taking place across the
economy. Specifically, the BEA [tracks private
investment](https://www.bea.gov/resources/methodologies/nipa-handbook/pdf/chapter-06.pdf)
in factory construction in the United States—the most relevant indicator
available to track how planned investments from invest.gov are showing
up in spending.

Under the Biden-Harris Administration, real investment in factory
construction has skyrocketed. Since the President and Vice-President
took office, it has more than doubled, exceeding forecaster expectations
from before and after the Investing in America agenda was passed (Figure
2). As of the third quarter of 2024, investment in manufacturing
structures is at an all-time high and has broken record highs for the
past nine quarters. The Department of the Treasury
[found](https://home.treasury.gov/news/featured-stories/us-business-investment-in-the-post-covid-expansion)
that this investment contributed to almost one-third of real business
investment growth in the same period—in stark contrast to the past 50
years, when investment in manufacturing structures contributed nearly
zero percentage points to real business investment growth.

<figure>
<img
src="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/11/Picture2_2891c4.png"
class="wp-image-109710" decoding="async" loading="lazy"
sizes="(max-width: 1039px) 100vw, 1039px"
srcset="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/11/Picture2_2891c4.png 1039w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/11/Picture2_2891c4.png?resize=615,415 615w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/11/Picture2_2891c4.png?resize=768,518 768w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/11/Picture2_2891c4.png?resize=550,370 550w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/11/Picture2_2891c4.png?resize=474,320 474w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/11/Picture2_2891c4.png?resize=949,640 949w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/11/Picture2_2891c4.png?resize=114,76 114w"
width="1039" height="701" />
</figure>

Data from other organizations that track actual investments are
consistent with this trend. The Clean Investment Monitor tracks
[investment](https://www.cleaninvestmentmonitor.org/methodology) in
clean energy technologies and infrastructure once a project breaks
ground by spreading the project’s cost over the life of the reported
construction period. Their most recent quarterly
[report](https://www.cleaninvestmentmonitor.org/reports/tallying-the-two-year-impact-of-the-inflation-reduction-act)
shows between the second half of 2022 and the first half of 2024, actual
public and private investment in clean technology and infrastructure
totaled $493 billion, a 71 percent increase from the two-year period
before the Inflation Reduction Act was signed. Of that, the clean energy
manufacturing and transportation technology sector posted the fastest
growth. This report concludes that for every $1 of federal investment,
between $5 to $6 of private investment is being crowded in.

The rise in investment increased along with record-breaking new American
business formation. The near four-year period under the Biden-Harris
Administration saw the highest number of applications to start a new
manufacturing business since the data began being collected in 2004.
Previous Council of Economic Advisers (CEA)
[analysis](https://www.whitehouse.gov/cea/written-materials/2024/01/11/new-business-surge-unveiling-the-business-application-boom-through-an-analysis-of-administrative-data/)
suggests that these applications will translate into strong future
economy activity as well as quality job creation.

## Distribution

Investment is more than numbers in a spreadsheet; it happens in
neighborhoods and communities across the country. The Investing in
America agenda includes
[several](https://energycommunities.gov/energy-community-tax-credit-bonus/)
[programs](https://www.transportation.gov/reconnecting)
[that](https://www.eda.gov/funding/programs/recompete-pilot-program)
encourage investment in [disadvantaged
communities](https://www.whitehouse.gov/environmentaljustice/justice40/).
Early indications are that this is working: a recent Department of the
Treasury
[report](https://home.treasury.gov/news/featured-stories/the-inflation-reduction-act-a-place-based-analysis-updates-from-q3-and-q4-2023)
shows that clean energy investments are largely taking place in counties
where median incomes, graduation rates, and employment rates are below
the respective national aggregate rates. For instance, 75 percent of
Inflation Reduction Act related private investments are in counties
whose median household income are below the national level. CEA
[found](https://www.whitehouse.gov/cea/written-materials/2024/06/06/investing-in-places-historically-left-behind-foreign-direct-investment-in-u-s-clean-energy-manufacturing/)
that foreign direct investment in clean energy manufacturing is going to
areas disproportionately affected by the “China shock,” places that
experienced [larger
declines](https://pubs.aeaweb.org/doi/pdfplus/10.1257/aer.103.6.2121) in
manufacturing employment due to increased [import
penetration](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0022199624000369).

Several
[other](https://www.americanprogress.org/article/historic-investments-in-electric-vehicle-batteries-and-chargers-are-expanding-opportunities-in-communities-with-high-poverty-rates/)
[reports](https://www.brookings.edu/articles/strategic-sector-investments-are-poised-to-benefit-distressed-us-counties/)
[have](https://eig.org/left-behind-places/) shown similar results on
investment going to lower-income regions, indicating that
more-distressed U.S. communities are early beneficiaries of the
Investing in America agenda. Furthermore, [many clean energy
projects](https://www.dol.gov/general/good-jobs/cleanenergyprojects)
that utilize [tax
incentives](https://www.irs.gov/credits-deductions/prevailing-wage-and-apprenticeship-requirements)
under the Inflation Reduction Act are expected to seek qualification for
the law’s additional prevailing wage and registered apprenticeship tax
incentives, meaning they can receive [five
times](https://www.irs.gov/pub/irs-pdf/p5855.pdf) the base amount of
certain clean energy tax credits and deductions. This will [create
opportunities](https://www.cjnrc.org/wp-content/uploads/2024/08/FINAL-CJNRC_IRA-Report-_8-13-2024.pdf)
for
[apprentices](https://www.whitehouse.gov/cea/written-materials/2024/11/20/all-aboard-the-apprenticeship-assessing-the-changing-face-of-registered-apprenticeships/),
union workers, and [workers without four-year college
degrees.](https://www.thirdway.org/blog/clean-energy-investment-and-non-college-workers)

## Employment

New public and private investment and shovels in the ground have
directly resulted in a rise in employment. Construction employment is at
an all-time high, and since the start of the Biden-Harris
Administration, the economy has added a total of 947,000 construction
jobs. Of this, 581,000 are in nonresidential construction, where monthly
employment growth accelerated after the passage of the Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law and grew even more following the signing of the CHIPS
and Science Act and the Inflation Reduction Act, bouncing back faster
than previous economic expansions. Between January 2021 and when the
Bipartisan Infrastructure Law was passed, average monthly job growth in
nonresidential construction was 7,000; during the year after the
Inflation Reduction Act was enacted, the average jumped to 14,800 jobs
created per month. Over the past six months, nonresidential construction
has added an average of 15,000 jobs per month, above the 12,100 monthly
average between 2017 and 2019.

As novel investment leads to new production, analysts expect
manufacturing employment to [increase by as much as 8
percent](https://themanufacturinginstitute.org/wp-content/uploads/2024/04/Digital_Skills_Report_April_2024.pdf).
CEA internal analysis indicates that it typically takes about two years
from a rise in the construction of new manufacturing structures until
there is an uptick in manufacturing employment. Recent data also show
that in the third quarter of 2024, real investment in industrial
equipment increased three percent compared to a year ago.

Turning to the clean energy sector, the latest yearly U.S. Energy and
Employment
[report](https://www.energy.gov/sites/default/files/2024-08/2024%20USEER%20FINAL.pdf)
shows that under the Biden-Harris Administration, 400,000 clean energy
jobs have been created. As investments are taking place across America,
clean energy jobs are taking off as well. Matching the pace in 2022,
data from 2023 show clean energy employment, excluding traditional
energy transmission and distribution, has grown in all 50 states (Figure
3). In 2023, clean energy employment grew at twice the rate of job
growth in the overall economy and, for the first time, unionization
rates in clean energy jobs surpassed those of traditional energy
employment, growing to 12.4 percent.

<figure>
<img
src="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/11/Picture3_7c4572.png"
class="wp-image-109711" decoding="async" loading="lazy"
sizes="(max-width: 834px) 100vw, 834px"
srcset="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/11/Picture3_7c4572.png 834w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/11/Picture3_7c4572.png?resize=615,558 615w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/11/Picture3_7c4572.png?resize=768,697 768w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/11/Picture3_7c4572.png?resize=353,320 353w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/11/Picture3_7c4572.png?resize=705,640 705w"
width="834" height="757" />
</figure>

The latest Quarterly Census of Employment and Wages, which includes
quarterly data through March 2024, shows that since the President took
office, 33,000 power generation and supply jobs have been created. This
sector previously had been in a [prolonged
decline](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/blog/2023/10/23/bidenomics-in-action-clean-energy-jobs-and-investments-taking-hold-across-america/),
but in February 2024, the industry employed more people than at any
other time in 20 years. Since the Inflation Reduction Act was passed,
average weekly wages in this industry have grown 6.1 percent, 1.9
percentage points higher than inflation during the same time period.

Both the number and quality of jobs are important for workers and the
overall economy. As the President’s recent [Good Jobs Executive
Order](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/09/06/executive-order-on-investing-in-america-and-investing-in-american-workers/)
and White House
[blog](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/blog/2024/04/25/following-up-on-the-four-priorities-of-president-bidens-workforce-strategy/)
underscore, the Investing in America agenda is deliberate about
empowering workers with well-paying jobs, especially union jobs. These
good jobs with higher compensation and safety standards in turn reduce
turnover and increase productivity,
[benefitting](https://www.whitehouse.gov/cea/written-materials/2022/04/06/blocking-the-low-road-and-paving-the-high-road-management-practices-to-improve-productivity/)
workers, employers, and the overall economy.

## Conclusion

President Biden and Vice President Harris came into office with a plan
to restore American leadership at home and abroad, and grow the economy
from the middle-out and bottom-up. To realize that bold vision, they put
in place the Invest in America agenda, implementing a
government-enabled, private-sector led approach that is producing
tangible results for communities and businesses in every corner of the
United States. With $1 trillion in new private sector investment
announcements, the Biden-Harris Administration’s agenda can continue to
promote inclusive economic growth in places all across the country for
decades to come.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
