---
date: '2024-11-26'
modified_time: 2024-11-26 14:45:42-05:00
published_time: 2024-11-26 13:04:42-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/blog/2024/11/26/president-bidens-investing-in-america-agendas-growing-durability-and-popularity/
tags: blog
title: "President\_Biden\u2019s Investing in America Agenda\u2019s Growing Durability\
  \ and\_Popularity"
---
 
*By Natalie Quillian, White House Deputy Chief of Staff*

When President Biden and Vice President Harris came into office, America
was in the midst of a deadly pandemic and our economy was reeling. Since
then, President Biden and Vice President Harris have overseen one of the
most successful administrations in history and will be leaving behind
the best economy in the world.

Under President Biden and Vice President Harris’ leadership, 16 million
jobs have been created, and we’ve gotten women and people of color back
in the labor force at record rates. A record 20 million new business
applications have been filed, and inflation is down to near pre-pandemic
levels. These outcomes are due in part to our success in passing and
implementing legislation that rebuilt our nation’s infrastructure, made
the largest investment in climate action in history, lowered
prescription drug costs, and spurred a manufacturing renaissance.
Together, the American Rescue Plan, the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law,
the CHIPS and Science Act, and the Inflation Reduction Act – the
Biden-Harris Administration’s Investing in America agenda – are
reshaping our economy. **And as of today, that agenda has helped spur
over $1 trillion in private sector investment in clean energy and
manufacturing since President Biden and Vice President Harris took
office.**

The level of private sector investment seen under this administration is
unprecedented. Business leaders have called the boom in private
investment “nothing short of extraordinary,” and have said the United
States’ economy is “among the best performing economies” in decades. It
is driving a manufacturing renaissance across the country and onshoring
new and growing industries such as semiconductors, solar, batteries, and
more. It’s also helping rebuild communities and create opportunity in
places that were overlooked or left behind by public and private
investment for far too long.

As of today, the Department of Commerce has announced over two dozen
preliminary or final agreements with semiconductor manufacturing
companies to create American-made chips in Phoenix, Arizona; Columbus,
Ohio; Taylor, Texas; Syracuse, New York, and more, spurring over $400
billion in private investment that will create at least 125,000 jobs.
Over $119 billion in investments in EVs and batteries and $122 billion
in clean power have been announced in just the two years since the
Inflation Reduction Act was signed. Recent announcements show these
investments have continued at a steady pace. For example, in the last
month alone, SolarCycle announced it would invest $400 million in
Georgia for the largest solar panel recycling facility in the country,
MainSpring Energy announced it would match an $87 million grant from the
Department of Energy to manufacture power generators in Allegheny
County, PA, and Microporous announced a $1.35 billion investment to
create 2,000 jobs building battery separators in southern Virginia.

In addition to private investment, the Biden-Harris Administration has
been implementing these laws quickly, effectively and equitably since
the day the first Investing in America bill was signed. Due to that
effort, there are already more than 74,000 infrastructure and clean
energy projects underway across the country, funded by the Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law, CHIPS and Science Act, and Inflation Reduction Act.
That includes 11,400 bridge projects, 196,000 miles of roads under
repair, and 376,000 lead pipes already replaced, benefitting nearly 1
million people. More than 3.4 million American families have already
saved $8.4 billion on home clean energy upgrades, thanks to the
Inflation Reduction Act. Three million more households in America have
high-speed internet today than when President Biden took office.
Millions of seniors are benefitting from the $35 cap on the cost of
insulin, and the cap on out-of-pocket prescription drug costs for
Medicare beneficiaries has already saved 1.5 million seniors nearly $1
billion in the first half of 2024, with Medicare beneficiaries feeling
the full benefits starting in January.

To date, the Biden-Harris Administration has announced awards for 98% of
Investing in America funding available for us to spend by the end of
fiscal year 2024. Departments and agencies are running through the tape
– announcing more awards, finalizing contracts and grant agreements, and
accelerating permitting timelines. For example, the Department of
Transportation executed more than twice as many grant agreements
compared to the prior administration, completed 20 percent more
environmental reviews in the transportation sector, and cut the time it
takes to complete environmental assessments for transportation projects
by one third.

These programs and projects mean real benefits for people across the
country. It’s why as we continue to implement the Investing in America
agenda, we see these programs grow in popularity even among skeptics,
suggesting that the transformation of the U.S. economy is here to stay.
For example:

-   Nearly [8 in
    10](https://www.dataforprogress.org/blog/2023/2/24/voters-support-keeping-cap-on-insulin-costs)
    Americans support keeping the Inflation Reduction Act’s $35 per
    month cap on the cost of insulin for seniors, including 76% of
    Republicans.

<!-- -->

-   A Reuters/Ipsos poll found that
    [88%](https://www.ipsos.com/en-us/reutersipsos-survey-perceptions-economy-impact-bidens-approval-and-chances-2024)
    of Americans support the Administration’s work building or repairing
    our nation’s roads, bridges, rail lines, ports and other
    infrastructure.

<!-- -->

-   Outside groups have found that the majority of private sector
    investments spurred by Inflation Reduction Act’s tax credits are
    going to red districts, and 57 percent of the new clean energy jobs
    created since the Inflation Reduction Act passed are located in
    Congressional districts represented by Republicans.

The progress we’ve made, however, represents only a fraction of the full
impact of this agenda. As the President said earlier this month, the
impacts of this historic agenda “will be felt over the next 10 years.”
If future Administrations continue to implement at the pace we have,
people across the country will enjoy the benefits of safer water,
cleaner air, faster internet, and smoother commutes.  For example, by
the end of 2026, the country is on track to have launched repairs on a
total of over 356,000 miles of highway and over 20,800 bridges with
funding from the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law. By the end of 2028,
communities will replace more than one million toxic lead pipes,
bringing clean water to over 2.5 million people and protecting the
health and safety of children and families.  And by 2030, 6 million more
households and small businesses will have access to affordable,
reliable, high-speed internet.

Also, major projects we’ve funded will be completed in the coming years.
For example, TSMC’s first Arizona factory will fully open in early 2025
and for the first time in decades, an American manufacturing plant will
produce leading-edge chips. Service on the Brightline West High Speed
Rail System, connecting Las Vegas, Nevada to Rancho Cucamonga,
California, is on track to start in 2028, in time for the Los Angeles
Olympics. A project to replace Michigan’s outdated I-375 freeway will be
completed in the same year.

Over the coming months, the Biden-Harris Administration will continue
the critical work of implementing the Investing in America agenda by
announcing more awards, finalizing contracts and grant agreements, and
making sure these investments are reaching the American people. While
the full effects won’t be realized for years to come, it’s clear that
the Investing in America agenda – and its impacts on the economy, on
communities, and on American families – is here to stay.

\###
