---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2021-03-31'
modified_time: 2021-03-31 16:48:14-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/03/31/a-proclamation-on-national-child-abuse-prevention-month-2021/
published_time: 2021-03-31 16:48:13-04:00
title: A Proclamation on National Child Abuse Prevention Month, 2021
---
 
As we begin to emerge from a year of unprecedented stress and hardship,
children and families need our support more than ever.  The confluence
of a devastating pandemic and the worst economic crisis in nearly a
century have increased the risk for child abuse and neglect as Americans
grapple with the compounding challenges of school and child care
facility closures, social isolation, and increased financial
instability.  Children and families of color — who so often across our
history have been underserved, marginalized, and adversely affected by
persistent poverty and inequality — face even greater adversity today as
they disproportionately carry the burdens of the COVID-19 crisis. 
During National Child Abuse Prevention Month, and throughout the entire
year, it is imperative that we join together as one Nation to combat
child abuse in all of its forms — through neglect, mistreatment, or
physical, emotional, or sexual abuse.

Community-based child abuse prevention programs are a critical tool for
preventing the mistreatment of children and advancing equity.
 Authorized by Title II of the Child Abuse Prevention and Treatment Act,
the purpose of community-based child abuse prevention programs is to
support local efforts that strengthen and support families to reduce the
likelihood of child abuse.  These programs offer comprehensive
assistance that improves family stabilization, while also fostering
meaningful engagement with diverse populations to promote effective
prevention strategies. 

Across our country, a vast network of frontline workers, court and legal
professionals, faith leaders, volunteers, teachers, and helpful loved
ones and neighbors work every day to support the wellbeing of our
children.  They deserve our recognition and our sincere gratitude,
particularly in the midst of this difficult year.  Though the pandemic
has changed the ways that they interact with the families they serve,
they have shown remarkable resilience, and their dedication to
preventing child abuse continues to transform lives.

We recognize that within the larger context of addressing child abuse,
there is a need to specifically address issues of sexual violence
against children and adolescents.  My Administration is committed to
expanding efforts to improve prevention initiatives, enhance
trauma-informed responses to assist children and adolescents impacted by
sexual violence, and work toward healing and justice.  It is an
imperative not only in the United States, but also in galvanizing global
action to end sexual violence against children and adolescents.

National Child Abuse Prevention Month is a time for us to not only honor
those who work to support children and strengthen families, but to shine
a light on the many ways we can all play a role in preventing children
from being harmed.  The Prevention Resource Guide, an annual publication
by the Department of Health and Human Services, Administration for
Children and Families Children’s Bureau outlines actions that can be
taken by communities, organizations, families, and individuals to
address the root causes of child abuse and provide meaningful and
equitable support to families.  You can access the Prevention Resource
Guide and other resources at the Child Welfare Information
Gateway’s [Child Abuse Prevention Month
website](https://www.childwelfare.gov/topics/preventing/preventionmonth/).
 By increasing efforts to prevent child abuse, we will help children,
families, and communities thrive.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim April 2021 as
National Child Abuse Prevention Month.  I call upon all Americans to
protect our Nation’s greatest resource — its children — and to take an
active role in supporting children and parents and creating safe
communities filled with thriving families.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirty-first day of
March, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-fifth.  

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
