---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2021-03-31'
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/03/31/a-proclamation-on-second-chance-month-2021/
published_time: 2021-03-31 16:56:39-04:00
title: "A Proclamation on Second Chance Month,\_2021"
---
 
America’s criminal justice system must offer meaningful opportunities
for redemption and rehabilitation.  After incarcerated individuals serve
their time, they should have the opportunity to fully reintegrate into
society.  It benefits not just those individuals but all of society, and
it is the best strategy to reduce recidivism.  During Second Chance
Month, we lift up all those who, having made mistakes, are committed to
rejoining society and making meaningful contributions.

     My Administration is committed to a holistic approach to building
safe and healthy communities.  This includes preventing crime and
providing opportunities for all Americans.  It also requires rethinking
the existing criminal justice system — whom we send to prison and for
how long; how people are treated while incarcerated; how prepared they
are to reenter society once they have served their time; and the racial
inequities that lead to the disproportionate number of incarcerated
Black and Brown people. 

     We must commit to second chances from the earliest stages of our
criminal justice system.  Supporting second chances means, for example,
diverting individuals who have used illegal drugs to drug court programs
and treatment instead of prison.  It requires eliminating exceedingly
long sentences and mandatory minimums that keep people incarcerated
longer than they should be.  It means providing quality job training and
educational opportunities during incarceration to prepare individuals
for the 21st century economy.  And it means reinvesting the savings from
reduced incarceration into reentry programs and social services that
prevent recidivism and leave us all better off.

     More than 600,000 individuals return to their communities from
State and Federal prisons every year.  Transitioning back into society
can be overwhelming for those who are formerly incarcerated as well as
their families and communities.  Too many individuals face unfair legal
and practical barriers to reentry.  The reentry process is complicated
in the best of times, and is even more so with the additional
difficulties presented by the COVID-19 pandemic.

     We must remove these barriers.  Every person leaving incarceration
should have housing, the opportunity at a decent job, and health care. 
A person’s conviction history should not unfairly exclude them from
employment, occupational licenses, access to credit, public benefits, or
the right to vote.  Certain criminal records should be expunged and
sealed so people can overcome their past. 

     By focusing on prevention, reentry, and social support, rather than
incarceration, we can ensure that America is a land of second chances
and opportunity for all people.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim April
2021 as Second Chance Month.  I call upon all government officials,
educators, volunteers, and all the people of the United States to
observe this day with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirty-first
day of March, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-fifth.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
