---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2021-03-31'
modified_time: 2021-03-31 16:54:18-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/03/31/a-proclamation-on-national-cancer-control-month-2021/
published_time: 2021-03-31 16:54:17-04:00
title: "A Proclamation on National Cancer Control Month,\_2021"
---
 
Despite the incredible advancements we have made in recent years, cancer
remains the second leading cause of death in the United States.  Behind
this statistic are millions of Americans who know the distress of
receiving a cancer diagnosis, and millions more who watch family members
or friends courageously fight this disease and too often succumb to it. 
Cancer is brutal and cruel, and I intimately understand the incalculable
human toll that this disease inflicts on patients and their loved ones —
a toll that strikes communities of color at disproportionately high
rates. 

During National Cancer Control Month, we celebrate the progress made
against this disease, and we reaffirm our national commitment to
preventing cancer, improving treatments and the delivery of care, and
finding a cure.  This includes efforts to improve cancer prevention,
promote early detection, enhance treatment, and support the needs of
cancer survivors and caregivers.  This issue is deeply personal for me —
and as President, I am committed to ending cancer as we know it.

Progress begins with helping people take steps to lower their risk for
many kinds of cancer.  Tobacco use remains the top cause of cancer
deaths in the United States.  By helping people quit smoking and
limiting exposure to secondhand smoke, we can reduce cancer risk and
save lives.  Resources to help quit smoking can be found
at [SmokeFree.gov](http://www.smokefree.gov/) or by calling
1-800-QUIT-NOW.  Eating healthy, getting regular physical activity,
limiting alcohol consumption, and reducing sun exposure when the sun is
at its peak can also help reduce the risk of getting cancer.

My Administration is proud to support efforts like the Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention’s National Comprehensive Cancer Control
and the National Breast and Cervical Cancer Early Detection Programs,
which help Americans in communities throughout the country get
recommended cancer screenings.  You can read more about these programs
at [cdc.gov/cancer](http://www.cdc.gov/cancer).

My Administration is also a proud supporter of ClinicalTrials.gov, the
world’s largest public clinical research database that gives patients,
families, health care providers, researchers, and others easy access to
information on clinical studies relating to a wide range of diseases and
conditions, including cancer.

This year also marks the 50th anniversary of the National Cancer Act of
1971.  This landmark legislation cemented our Nation’s commitment to
cancer research, establishing networks of cancer centers, clinical
trials, data collection systems, and advanced research, without which
many breakthroughs against cancer in recent years would not have
occurred.

In addition, the Cancer Moonshot, which former President Obama and I
initiated in 2016, accelerated progress in cancer prevention, treatment,
and cures, including by funding six Implementation Science Centers in
cancer control.  These centers were created to expand the use of proven
cancer prevention and early detection strategies, especially among
underserved, rural, and minority populations, which often have lower
rates of cancer screening and thus find cancer at more advanced stages.
 You can read about these important research programs and breakthroughs
by visiting [cancer.gov](http://www.cancer.gov/).

As part of the Cancer Moonshot, we also established the Oncology Center
of Excellence at the Food and Drug Administration to drive faster and
better integrated development of drugs, medical devices, and biological
and other products to tackle this devastating disease.  Find out more
at [fda.gov](https://www.fda.gov/about-fda/fda-organization/oncology-center-excellence).

This year, we must be especially mindful of the significant disruptions
the COVID-19 pandemic is bringing to cancer care — delaying routine
screening, diagnosis, and therapy.  I urge Americans not to delay
recommended screenings, doctor’s visits, and treatments.  Because of the
Affordable Care Act, most health insurance plans must cover a set of
preventive services with no out-of-pocket costs, including many cancer
screenings.  In response to the COVID-19 pandemic, my Administration
also announced a special enrollment period for the Health Insurance
Marketplace, allowing uninsured individuals and families to sign up for
health coverage and gain these protections through August 15th.  I
encourage you to visit [healthcare.gov](http://www.healthcare.gov/) to
explore your eligibility and get covered today.

Our Nation has made extraordinary advances in the fight against cancer. 
Still, much work remains to be done.  We owe it to every person who has
lost their battle with this disease, every person living with this
disease, and every person who may one day contract it, to continue
working tirelessly to defeat it.  During National Cancer Control Month,
let us renew our efforts to save lives and spare suffering by
accelerating our work to end cancer as we know it.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, do hereby proclaim April 2021 as National Cancer Control
Month.  I encourage citizens, government agencies, private businesses,
nonprofit organizations, and other interested groups to join in
activities that will increase awareness of what Americans can do to
prevent and control cancer.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirty-first day of
March, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-fifth.

  
 JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
