---
tags: presidential-actions
date: '2021-03-31'
modified_time: 2021-04-01 17:31:35-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/03/31/a-proclamation-on-month-of-the-military-child-2021/
published_time: 2021-03-31 17:20:00-04:00
title: "A Proclamation on Month of the Military Child,\_2021"
---
 
April marks the Month of the Military Child, when our Nation pays
tribute to the resilience and tenacity of our military children; over
2 million active duty, National Guard, Reserve and children of veterans
who did not make the choice to serve, but live each day supporting their
brave parents.  These young people live out the words of the poet John
Milton, “they also serve who only stand and wait.”  We see their service
and thank them for it.  
  
From a young age, children of service members sometimes endure long
separations from their parents and shoulder the burdens of service.
 They spend holidays and milestones apart from those they love the most,
or celebrate with only a short phone call or virtual chat from a faraway
parent.  This is something the First Lady and I have witnessed in our
own lives, as our grandchildren experienced their father’s deployment to
Iraq.  
  
Military children change schools up to nine times between the start of
kindergarten and high school graduation.  With each move, they grapple
with difficult goodbyes and the challenge of making new friends.
 Although life in a military family can include exploring new places and
exposure to other cultures and customs, it can also bring frustration
and loneliness.  During the Month of the Military Child, we show our
appreciation for the commitment and service of military children in
shouldering these challenges, and we recognize the stressors on military
children brought about by the unique demands of their parents’ military
life.  
  
The strength of our Armed Forces comes not just from those who wear the
uniform, but from their families, who also serve on behalf of our
country.  As a Nation, we have many obligations, but we have only one
truly sacred obligation:  to properly prepare and equip our troops when
we send them into harm’s way, and to care for them and their families.
 The First Lady and I understand the gravity of this promise personally,
and we have made supporting service members, veterans, their families,
caregivers, and survivors a top priority for my Administration.  
  
That is why the First Lady has committed to relaunching the Joining
Forces initiative, mobilizing all Americans to continue the national
commitment to support and engage our military families.  By raising
awareness about the unique aspects of military life and working toward
solutions to its challenges, my Administration will continue to support
military children and will help ensure that they have opportunities to
grow and live out their dreams.  
  
Observing the Month of the Military Child demonstrates our support for
military children who make daily sacrifices so their parents can keep
our Nation safe.  Military-connected children are strong and resilient,
and we must match their strength with a commitment to provide the full
support of our communities and our Government.  I encourage all
Americans to serve them as well as they serve us.  
  
NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim April 2021 as the
Month of the Military Child.  I call upon the people of the United
States to honor military children with appropriate ceremonies and
activities.  
  
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirty-first day of
March, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-fifth.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
