---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2021-03-31'
modified_time: 2021-03-31 08:52:24-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/03/31/a-proclamation-on-transgender-day-of-visibility-2021/
published_time: 2021-03-31 08:52:23-04:00
title: "A Proclamation on Transgender Day Of Visibility,\_2021"
---
 
Today, we honor and celebrate the achievements and resiliency of
transgender individuals and communities.  Transgender Day of Visibility
recognizes the generations of struggle, activism, and courage that have
brought our country closer to full equality for transgender and gender
non-binary people in the United States and around the world.  Their
trailblazing work has given countless transgender individuals the
bravery to live openly and authentically.  This hard-fought progress is
also shaping an increasingly accepting world in which peers at school,
teammates and coaches on the playing field, colleagues at work, and
allies in every corner of society are standing in support and solidarity
with the transgender community.

In spite of our progress in advancing civil rights for LGBTQ+ Americans,
too many transgender people — adults and youth alike — still face
systemic barriers to freedom and equality.  Transgender Americans of all
ages face high rates of violence, harassment, and discrimination.
 Nearly one in three transgender Americans have experienced homelessness
at some point in life.  Transgender Americans continue to face
discrimination in employment, housing, health care, and public
accommodations.  The crisis of violence against transgender women,
especially transgender women of color, is a stain on our Nation’s
conscience.

The Biden-Harris Administration is committed to fulfilling the promise
of America for all Americans by stamping out discrimination and
delivering freedom and equality for all.

To ensure that the Federal Government protects the civil rights of
transgender Americans, I signed, on my first day in office, an Executive
Order on Preventing and Combating Discrimination on the Basis of Gender
Identity or Sexual Orientation.  Today, we are proud to celebrate
Transgender Day of Visibility alongside barrier-breaking public
servants, including the first openly transgender American to be
confirmed by the United States Senate, and alongside patriotic
transgender service members, who are once again able to proudly and
openly serve their country.  We also celebrate together with transgender
Americans across the country who will benefit from our efforts to stop
discrimination and advance inclusion for transgender Americans in
housing, in credit and lending services, in the care we provide for our
veterans, and more.

To more fully protect the civil rights of transgender Americans, we must
pass the Equality Act and provide long overdue Federal civil rights
protections on the basis of sexual orientation and gender identity.  The
Equality Act will deliver legal protections for LGBTQ+ Americans in our
housing, education, public services, and lending systems.  It will serve
as a lasting legacy to the bravery and fortitude of the LGBTQ+ movement.

Vice President Harris and I affirm that transgender Americans make our
Nation more prosperous, vibrant, and strong.  I urge my fellow Americans
to join us in uplifting the worth and dignity of every transgender
person.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim March 31, 2021, as
Transgender Day of Visibility.  I call upon all Americans to join in the
fight for full equality for all transgender people.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirty-first day of
March, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-fifth.

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
