---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2021-03-01'
modified_time: 2021-03-01 17:12:44-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/03/01/a-proclamation-on-american-red-cross-month-2021/
published_time: 2021-03-01 17:12:43-05:00
title: "A Proclamation on American Red Cross Month,\_2021"
---
 
Throughout our country’s history, the humanitarian spirit of the
American people has shined as a beacon of hope in times of crisis.  It
is written in our DNA that when hardship strikes, we come together to
ensure that no one faces it alone.  It is in that spirit that we
celebrate American Red Cross Month, a chance to honor all those selfless
Americans who step up and lend a hand whenever and wherever people are
in need.

For 140 years, the American Red Cross has been synonymous with the
prevention and alleviation of human suffering across the globe.  Founded
by Clara Barton in 1881, the organization’s mission lives on in the
dedication of Red Cross workers — more than 90 percent of whom are
volunteers — and the generosity of the American people in moments of
crisis.

We saw unmistakable evidence of that spirit through the challenges of
this past year.  In 2020, more than 70,000 people became new Red Cross
volunteers and stepped up on behalf of those in need — as disaster
shelter workers, health workers, blood donor ambassadors, and
transportation specialists.  And when our country faced a severe blood
shortage, the American people rolled up their sleeves, with more than a
half-million of our friends and neighbors donating blood with the Red
Cross for the first time.

In a year like no other, people made a lifesaving difference.  As months
of relentless hurricanes, wildfires, and other extreme weather events
battered communities, families spent more nights in emergency lodging
than in any other year over the past decade — thanks to the hard work
and generosity of Red Cross volunteers and partners who provided more
than 1.3 million people with overnight stays last year.  When the
pandemic strained emergency services, Red Cross workers adapted to help
fulfill urgent needs.  They responded to increased emergency calls from
military families, aided hundreds of thousands of home fire survivors,
supported international health and hygiene services, and safely provided
health and safety courses to essential workers and others to help them
manage the COVID-19 threat.  In recent days, as harsh winter storms left
many Americans without power and water across the South and Midwest, the
Red Cross and its partners have worked to help people recover and
restore access to safe water.

This month, we renew our commitment to Clara Barton’s remarkable vision
and join together, as one Nation, to recommit ourselves to a
foundational American principle:  the duty of care we owe to one another
when times get tough.  I urge all Americans to take part in that
tradition through our own everyday acts of compassion — helping a
neighbor, a stranger, or a community in need.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America and Honorary Chairman of the American Red Cross, by virtue of
the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the laws of the
United States, do hereby proclaim March 2021 as American Red Cross
Month.  I encourage all Americans to observe this month with appropriate
programs, ceremonies and activities, and by supporting the work of
service and relief organizations.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this first day of March,
in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of the Independence
of the United States of America the two hundred and forty-fifth.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
