---
tags: presidential-actions
date: '2021-03-31'
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/03/31/a-proclamation-on-national-financial-capability-month-2021/
published_time: 2021-03-31 16:41:58-04:00
title: "A Proclamation on National Financial Capability Month,\_2021"
---
 
     My Administration is working hard to help Americans overcome the
financial impact of COVID-19 and the deep-rooted inequities in our
society that have greatly limited the economic prosperity of too many
Americans.  Given the disproportionate impact the pandemic is having on
minority and low-income communities, a concerted effort by the Federal
Government is necessary for recovery and building back a better
economy.  Financial education that builds financial capability helps
families receive assistance, build resilience, and benefit from a
stronger and more equitable economy.  April is recognized as National
Financial Capability Month to highlight the value of high-quality
financial education to improving Americans’ financial capability.

     The Financial Literacy and Education Commission, a 23-member body
of Federal agencies, chaired by the Secretary of the Treasury, was
created to coordinate and improve financial education for all
Americans.  Its members are helping address the financial challenges our
country faces as a result of the COVID-19 pandemic.  Agencies are
reaching American families with critical assistance and information on
home mortgage forbearance, student loan repayment relief, unemployment
assistance, and economic impact payments.  Federal agencies are also
alerting the public about scams, bogus investments, and other ways bad
actors have tried to take advantage of people during this crisis.

     High-quality financial education should build on and respond to
people’s individual strengths, circumstances, and needs in order to help
them work toward their own unique goals.  Yet such high-quality
financial education has not historically reached all Americans,
especially our most underserved low-income and minority communities.
 This month, all financial educators in Federal, State, local, and
Tribal governments, schools, and private sector organizations should
recognize the systemic disparities in our society that have acted as
barriers to financial well-being for too many families.  They should
redouble their efforts to better understand and effectively serve
historically underserved people and communities, including people of
color, low-income individuals, and persons with disabilities.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim April
2021 as National Financial Capability Month.  I call upon all Americans
to observe this month by understanding barriers to financial well-being,
and taking action to build their own financial capability and assist
others to do so.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirty-first
day of March, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-fifth.  
  
                               

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
