---
tags: presidential-actions
date: '2021-03-01'
modified_time: 2021-03-01 18:06:53-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/03/01/a-proclamation-on-national-consumer-protection-week-2021/
published_time: 2021-03-01 18:06:52-05:00
title: "A Proclamation on National Consumer Protection Week,\_2021"
---
 
# 

American families are grappling with the devastating challenges of the
COVID-19 pandemic and the economic crisis with courage and resilience
every day.  In this moment of crisis, the last thing any of us should
have to contend with are predators in the consumer marketplace seeking
to take advantage of us, exploit our personal data, or invade our
digital privacy.  
  
Unfortunately, the pandemic has brought a wave of fraud in its wake,
with scam artists serving up fake websites and advertisements targeting
desperate Americans in search of personal protective equipment.
 Scammers also saw the distribution of stimulus payments as fertile
ground for fraud, offering vulnerable people false promises of help to
get their payments more quickly.  My Administration has zero tolerance
for these and other criminals who take Americans’ hard-earned dollars or
abuse their personal information.   
  
As Americans rely more and more on digital products — from virtual
communication tools helping us stay connected through the pandemic, to
apps and smart appliances that bring greater convenience to our lives —
our commitment to consumer protection must keep pace with these
incredible innovations.  Just because we increasingly depend on
technology to work, shop, go to school, and see our loved ones doesn’t
mean that we should sacrifice our safety or privacy.  
  
My Administration will make it a priority to ensure that companies
providing these and other services honor consumer expectations regarding
their privacy and their data.  We will pursue fraudulent actors
aggressively, and work to raise the bar on digital security standards as
new innovations are introduced.  We also recognize the important role
that savvy consumers play in keeping the marketplace honest.  My
Administration will make sure that Americans in every community have
access to the educational resources they need to make informed choices
online — including resources to help them protect their privacy and
recognize, avoid, and report fraudulent schemes.    
  
As millions of Americans face continued hardship from the COVID-19
pandemic, we must also prevent abuses that can result in individuals and
families losing their homes.  My Administration has taken decisive
action to help keep people in their homes, and I encourage Americans to
visit www.consumerfinance.gov/housing for up-to-date information on
their relief options, protections, and key deadlines.  As Federal
agencies continue working to implement housing assistance for American
families, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau offers this website
as a one-stop shop for both homeowners and renters to learn about
programs and resources that can help them stay in their homes by
reducing the risk of eviction and foreclosure.    
  
The Federal Trade Commission and the Consumer Financial Protection
Bureau, our Nation’s consumer protection agencies, in coordination with
law enforcement across the country, fight predatory practices and
privacy violations day in and day out, with investigations, law
enforcement actions, and free, actionable, plain-language consumer
education resources.  National Consumer Protection Week brings together
public and private sector organizations that work to educate and protect
the American people from marketplace threats.  This week, and all year
long, my Administration is dedicated to making sure that every American
understands their rights and has access to information that can help
protect themselves and their communities.  To learn more about these
resources, visit www.consumer.ftc.gov.  To learn how to get involved
with National Consumer Protection Week, visit www.ftc.gov/ncpw.   
  
NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim February 28
through March 6, 2021, as National Consumer Protection Week.  I call
upon government officials, industry leaders, and advocates across the
Nation to share information about consumer protection and provide our
citizens with information about their rights as consumers.   
  
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this first day of March,
in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of the Independence
of the United States of America the two hundred and forty-fifth.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.  
 
