---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2021-03-31'
modified_time: 2021-03-31 16:51:06-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/03/31/a-proclamation-on-national-donate-life-month-2021/
published_time: 2021-03-31 16:51:05-04:00
title: A Proclamation on National Donate Life Month, 2021
---
 
April is National Donate Life Month, a time for all Americans to
celebrate the generosity of those who have saved lives by becoming
organ, eye, tissue, marrow, and blood donors ‑- and to encourage more
Americans to follow their example.  We also honor the families and
friends of donors who have supported their loved one’s decision to
donate, as well as the caring and committed professionals who serve the
transplantation community.  This month-long observance also encompasses
National Pediatric Transplant Week from April 18-24, a week dedicated to
ending the pediatric transplant waiting list.

     Despite the extraordinary challenges of the COVID-19 pandemic, 2020
saw organ transplants from deceased donors set an annual record for the
10th consecutive year — a testament to Americans’ generosity and
selflessness even in times of unbearable loss.  Thanks to the resilience
of our organ donation and transplantation professionals and the caring
nature of the American people, more than 39,000 life-saving or
life-enhancing organ transplants were performed in the United States
last year from both living and deceased donors.

     While thousands of Americans receive the gift of life each year
through organ transplantation, the number of people in need of
life-saving organs remains staggeringly high.  There are more than
107,000 people currently on the national transplant waiting list, and
another person is added every nine minutes.  Sadly, the waiting list
currently contains more than 1,900 children under the age of 18 who are
awaiting a life-saving organ transplant.  While very small children most
often must receive donations from other young children due to size
constraints, older children and adults can often match.  In many cases,
that means generous American adults can contribute to our goal of ending
the pediatric transplant waiting list.

     Current statistics show that Americans belonging to minority groups
make up nearly 60 percent of those waiting for an organ transplant.
 Although a transplant can be successful regardless of the race or
ethnicity of the donor and recipient, there is a greater chance of
longer-term survival for the recipient if the genetic background of the
donor and recipient are closely matched.  Americans from every community
are needed to help make a life-saving difference.

     Nearly 18,000 people are diagnosed each year with illnesses for
which blood stem cell transplantation — requiring marrow or cord blood —
is the best treatment option.  Over 65 percent of these individuals
require donors from outside their own family.  Although some 30 million
adults are currently registered as blood stem cell donors, many
individuals still have difficulty finding a suitably matched donor,
meaning that we need many more registrants to fill this life-saving
need.

     Every day, 17 people in America die while waiting for a
transplant.  Yet, all of us have the power to help:  one donor can save
up to eight lives through organ donation, and can improve another
75 lives through eye and tissue donation.  If you have not signed up as
an organ donor, we need your help to fill the gap between the
availability of organs and people who need them.  I encourage all
Americans to give hope to those awaiting a match by visiting
[organdonor.gov](https://www.organdonor.gov/register.html) for organ,
eye, and tissue donation, and
[bloodstemcell.hrsa.gov](https://bloodstemcell.hrsa.gov/donor-information/donate-bone-marrow/joining-registry)
for marrow donation.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by the authority vested in me by the Constitution and
the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim April 2021 as National
Donate Life Month.  I call upon every person to share the gift of life
and hope with those in need of a life-saving or life-enhancing
transplant by becoming organ, eye, tissue, marrow, and blood donors.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirty-first
day of March, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-fifth.

                                 JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
