---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2021-03-01'
modified_time: 2021-03-01 17:32:34-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/03/01/a-proclamation-on-womens-history-month-2021/
published_time: 2021-03-01 17:32:33-05:00
title: "A Proclamation on Women\u2019s History Month, 2021"
---
 
Each year, Women’s History Month offers an important opportunity for us
to shine a light on the extraordinary legacy of trailblazing American
women and girls who have built, shaped, and improved upon our Nation. 

Throughout American history, women and girls have made vital
contributions, often in the face of discrimination and undue hardship. 
Courageous women marched for and won the right to vote, campaigned
against injustice, shattered countless barriers, and expanded the
possibilities of American life.  Our history is also replete with
examples of the unfailing bravery and grit of women in America,
particularly in times of crisis and emergency.  Women served our Nation
during World War II, led organizing and litigation efforts during the
Civil Rights movement, and represented the United States on the global
stage in the fight for human rights, peace, and security.  Far too
often, their heroic efforts and their stories have gone untold —
especially the millions of Black women, immigrant women, and others from
diverse communities who have strengthened America across every
generation.

In our current moment of crisis, women continue to lead.  From vaccine
researchers to public health officials to the countless heroines on the
frontlines, women are working around the clock to defeat COVID-19. 
Women, and particularly women of color, also make up the majority of
America’s essential workers, including educators and child care
providers, grocery store workers, farmworkers, and others who are
keeping our families, our communities, and our country afloat.  This
year has also marked an historic milestone of women’s leadership 232
years in the making, with the inauguration of America’s first woman Vice
President.

As we celebrate the contributions and progress of women and girls, we
must also reflect on the extraordinary and unequal burdens they continue
to bear today.  The COVID-19 pandemic has exacerbated barriers that have
held back women — particularly women of color — for generations.  Gender
and racial disparities in pay continue to fester.  A disproportionate
share of caregiving continues to fall on the shoulders of women and
girls.  And now, job losses due to COVID-19 have set women’s labor force
participation back to its lowest point in more than 30 years —
threatening the security and well-being of women and their families and
imperiling the economic progress of our entire Nation.  The share of
mothers who have left the labor force is three times that of fathers; in
September 2020 alone, an astonishing 865,000 women dropped out of the
American workforce.  These trends are even more dire among women of
color, with Black and Hispanic women facing disproportionately high
rates of unemployment.  At the same time, food insecurity has risen
dramatically since the pandemic began, particularly in female-headed
households with children, as have reports of intimate partner violence.

Since taking office on January 20th, Vice President Kamala Harris and I
have made COVID-19 vaccination, relief, and broad-based economic
recovery efforts a top priority.  Our goal is not to return our economy
to where it was before the pandemic struck.  Our goal is to build back
better — and that means creating a strong and durable foundation for the
economic opportunity and security of women in America.  Our plans
include proposals to provide individual payments and tax credits to put
money in the hands of families in need; increase housing and food
assistance as well as unemployment insurance; lower health costs and
expand access to coverage; increase support for and access to child
care; and expand existing paid leave policies.  We are also committed to
making further progress on what, for me, has been a lifelong cause:
 reducing gender-based violence, and advancing the safety, economic
stability, and well-being of survivors.  

     Sixty years ago, when former First Lady Eleanor Roosevelt
confronted President John F. Kennedy about the lack of women in
Government, he appointed her as head of a new commission to address the
status of women in America and take on discrimination in all of its
forms.  We have made significant progress in the United States, thanks
to the persistence and tireless work of countless women.  I am proud
that the White House Gender Policy Council will build on those efforts
by putting a laser focus on the needs and contributions of women and
girls, and ensuring a Government-wide focus on gender equity.  Our
Administration is also committed to ensuring that women are
well-represented at all levels in the executive branch:  already, we
have selected a record number of women who represent the diversity of
America to serve in Cabinet-level positions.

During Women’s History Month, let us honor the accomplished and
visionary women who have helped build our country, including those whose
contributions have not been adequately recognized and celebrated.  And
let us pay tribute to the trailblazers from the recent and distant past
for daring to envision a future for which no past precedent existed, and
for building a Nation of endless possibilities for all of its women and
girls.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim March 2021 as
Women’s History Month.  I call upon all Americans to observe this month
and to celebrate International Women’s Day on March 8, 2021, with
appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities.  I also invite all
Americans to visit
[www.WomensHistoryMonth.gov](http://www.womenshistorymonth.gov) to learn
more about the vital contribution of women to our Nation’s history.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this first day of
March, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-fifth.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
