---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2021-03-03'
modified_time: 2021-03-03 13:49:57-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/03/03/notice-on-the-continuation-of-the-national-emergency-with-respect-to-ukraine/
published_time: 2021-03-03 13:49:56-05:00
title: "Notice on the Continuation of the National Emergency with Respect to\_Ukraine"
---
 
NOTICE

– – – – – – –

CONTINUATION OF THE NATIONAL EMERGENCY WITH RESPECT TO UKRAINE

    On March 6, 2014, by Executive Order 13660, the President declared a
national emergency pursuant to the International Emergency Economic
Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701-1706) to deal with the unusual and
extraordinary threat to the national security and foreign policy of the
United States constituted by the actions and policies of persons that
undermine democratic processes and institutions in Ukraine; threaten its
peace, security, stability, sovereignty, and territorial integrity;
and contribute to the misappropriation of its assets. 

    On March 16, 2014, the President issued Executive Order 13661, which
expanded the scope of the national emergency declared in Executive Order
13660, and found that the actions and policies of the Government of the
Russian Federation with respect to Ukraine undermine democratic
processes and institutions in Ukraine; threaten its peace, security,
stability, sovereignty, and territorial integrity; and contribute to the
misappropriation of its assets. 

    On March 20, 2014, the President issued Executive Order 13662, which
further expanded the scope of the national emergency declared in
Executive Order 13660, as expanded in scope in Executive Order 13661,
and found that the actions and policies of the Government of the Russian
Federation, including its purported annexation of Crimea and its use of
force in Ukraine, continue to undermine democratic processes
and institutions in Ukraine; threaten its peace, security, stability,
sovereignty, and territorial integrity; and contribute to the
misappropriation of its assets.

    On December 19, 2014, the President issued Executive Order 13685, to
take additional steps to address the Russian occupation of the Crimea
region of Ukraine.

    On September 20, 2018, the President issued Executive Order 13849,
to take additional steps to implement certain statutory sanctions with
respect to the Russian Federation. 

    The actions and policies addressed in these Executive Orders
continue to pose an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national
security and foreign policy of the United States.  For this reason, the
national emergency declared on March 6, 2014, and the measures adopted
on that date, on March 16, 2014, on March 20, 2014, on December 19,
2014, and on September 20, 2018, to deal with that emergency, must
continue in effect beyond March 6, 2021.  Therefore, in accordance with
section 202(d) of the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1622(d)),
I am continuing for 1 year the national emergency declared in Executive
Order 13660.

    This notice shall be published in the *Federal Register*
and transmitted to the Congress.

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.

THE WHITE HOUSE,  
March 2, 2021.
