---
tags: presidential-actions
date: '2021-03-31'
modified_time: 2021-03-31 08:43:46-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/03/31/a-proclamation-on-cesar-chavez-day-2021/
published_time: 2021-03-31 08:43:45-04:00
title: "A Proclamation on C\xE9sar Ch\xE1vez Day,\_2021"
---
 
In his time, César E. Chávez witnessed a booming economy that served
those at the top, but left millions of hardworking Americans behind —
and he earned an enduring place in history by standing strong for the
rights and dignity of the working people who built and sustained our
Nation.  Today, on what would have been his 94th birthday, we summon his
courage and moral clarity to guide us as we face the ongoing challenges
of a pandemic, a deeply unequal economic crisis, and a long overdue
national reckoning on racial and economic justice.  As we work to
recover and rebuild an economy that rewards hard work and brings
everyone along — including the immigrants and farm workers he
championed, as well as the essential workers carrying our Nation on
their backs today — we have no finer role model than César Chávez.

His legacy as the founder, along with Dolores Huerta, of the United Farm
Workers of America, reminds us of the central place that organizing and
collective bargaining holds in advancing the dignity and wellbeing of
working Americans.  It’s a reminder that the power of workers coming
together to bargain for a better deal is what built the American middle
class and made possible the American dream.  Chávez taught us:  “Our
ambitions must be broad enough to include the aspirations and needs of
others, for their sakes and for our own.”  That most American of
sentiments is as resonant today as it has ever been, as we seek to build
back our Nation in a way that brings every single one of us along.

He fasted.  He marched.  He organized.  He stayed true to his
convictions, and brought hope to millions for whom hope had often seemed
too far away.  To him, “La Causa” meant elevating our common humanity to
the center of an agenda for progress.  And that elevation meant
organizing for safe and healthy workplaces, a living wage, protections
against sickness and disability, time with family, and so much else that
we continue to prize and fight for today.

I keep that lesson in my heart every day — and I was proud to place a
bust of César Chávez in the Oval Office, so that no one who enters that
historic room may forget the powerful truths his farm worker hands
imparted.  On César Chávez Day, let us recommit ourselves to the duty we
have in service to one another to work toward equity and justice across
our communities.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim March 31, 2021, as
César Chávez Day.  I call upon all Americans to observe this day as a
day of service and learning, with appropriate service, community, and
education programs to honor César Chávez’s enduring legacy. 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirty-first day of
March, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-fifth.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
