---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2021-03-19'
modified_time: 2021-03-19 20:56:47-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/03/19/a-proclamation-on-national-poison-prevention-week-2021/
published_time: 2021-03-19 20:56:46-04:00
title: A Proclamation on National Poison Prevention Week, 2021
---
 
   Sixty years ago, the Congress established National Poison Prevention
Week to remind all Americans to stay vigilant and protect our families
from the often hidden threat of poisoning.  Never has that reminder been
more timely than this year — 9 out of 10 poisonings occur inside the
home, and with families spending more time indoors due to the COVID-19
pandemic, children and isolated seniors are at an increased risk of
accidental poisoning that could result in injury or death.

     Young children are particularly vulnerable to accidental poisoning
because — as every parent knows — children tend to explore objects with
their hands and mouths.  That’s especially true when it comes to
products with floral or fruity aromas, or those that come in colorful
packaging.  Hand sanitizer, household cleaning products, laundry
packets, medications, coin cell batteries, and liquid nicotine are among
the most commonly ingested products; these and similar items should be
stored in child-resistant packaging and kept out of sight and out of
reach of children.  Medications should be secured and, if possible,
locked away.  And unfinished or unused medicine should be properly
discarded — many pharmacies and police departments have disposal kiosks
for just that purpose.  

     In 2019, approximately 67,500 of our Nation’s children under the
age of 5 had to visit the emergency room due to unintended poisoning.
 About 85 percent of these incidents occurred in the home, most often
because they ingested blood pressure medications, acetaminophen, bleach,
ibuprofen, antidepressants, attention deficit disorder medications, or
laundry packets.  Elderly Americans are also at risk of mistaking
medications and ingesting household products; for seniors who are
isolated due to the pandemic, it is particularly important to secure and
clearly label medications and poisonous substances.

     Poison control centers are a vital component of our Nation’s
response to poisonings.  Centers across the United States operate around
the clock and respond to approximately three million calls every year
from the public, as well as from health care providers, 911
public-safety access points, health departments, law enforcement, first
responders, and other safety agencies.  They represent our first line of
defense in many cases, including when it comes to the opioid epidemic
that continues to devastate so many of our families and communities.

     According to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention,
overdose deaths have increased significantly in the past several years.
 Opioids are the main driver for this increase, killing nearly 47,000
people in the United States in 2018.  Two out of three opioid-involved
overdose deaths involve synethic opioids, including illegally
manufactured fentanyl.  When used in combination with other drugs, with
or without the user’s knowledge, it can be poisonous and deadly.

     But even legal substances, like liquid nicotine, can pose a deadly
risk.  Ingestion of small amounts of liquid nicotine can be extremely
hazardous and even deadly to children, which is why the Consumer Product
Safety Commission has warned vape shops and other retailers that selling
liquid nicotine without proper packaging violates Federal law.  To avoid
potential poisonings, always store liquid nicotine in its
child-resistant packaging, tightly seal the container after each use,
and keep it locked or stored away from children. 

     If you believe someone has been poisoned, immediately call the
Poison Control Help line at 800-222-1222.  For more information, go to
poisonhelp.org.

     To encourage Americans to learn more about the dangers of
unintentional poisonings and to take appropriate preventive measures, on
September 26, 1961, the United States Congress, by joint resolution (75
Stat. 681), authorized and requested the President to issue a
proclamation designating the third week of March each year as “National
Poison Prevention Week.”

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the
United States of America, do hereby proclaim March 21 through March 27,
2021, to be National Poison Prevention Week.  I call upon all Americans
to observe this week by taking actions to safeguard their families from
poisonous products, chemicals, and medicines often found in our homes,
and to raise awareness of these dangers to prevent accidental injuries
and deaths.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this nineteenth day
of March, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-fifth.               

  JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
