---
tags: presidential-actions
date: '2021-03-31'
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/03/31/a-proclamation-on-national-sexual-assault-prevention-and-awareness-month-2021/
published_time: 2021-03-31 16:45:52-04:00
title: "A Proclamation on National Sexual Assault Prevention And Awareness Month,\_\
  2021"
---
 
Sexual assault, at its core, is a devastating abuse of power — one that
affects people of every age, race, sex, gender identity, sexual
orientation, national origin, socioeconomic background, and religion. 
It is the responsibility of each of us to stand up and speak out against
it, not only to improve the laws and services available to survivors,
but also to change the culture and attitudes that allow sexual assault
to proliferate.  Together, we must work toward a society that upholds
every person’s right to live free from sexual violence — where our
institutions and communities commit to preventing sexual assault and
sexual harassment, supporting survivors, and holding offenders
accountable.  

     The pandemic has exacerbated the already harrowing challenges
facing sexual assault survivors by making it more difficult or risky for
them to seek help.  Victims may be reluctant to go to the hospital for a
medical forensic exam because of the risk of COVID-19 exposure; rape
crisis centers and other social service providers have struggled to
maintain their services while adopting necessary public health
protocols; and survivors are often isolated from loved ones, friends, or
co-workers who might be in the best position to provide support.  As we
race to stop the spread of this devastating virus, we must strengthen
our efforts to support sexual assault survivors whose suffering may be
compounded by this pandemic, as well as by the economic crisis that has
further undermined their economic security and taken a toll on service
providers.

     We also must recognize that sexual assault was already a public
health crisis even before the pandemic struck.  According to the
National Intimate Partner and Sexual Violence Survey, done by the CDC,
one in five women has been a victim of a completed or attempted rape at
some point in her lifetime.  Research has revealed a strong link between
sexual violence and chronic disease, as well as greater long-term
economic burdens on survivors of sexual assault.  The trauma of assault
is further compounded by the high costs of medical and mental health
care, navigating the criminal justice system, and lost productivity.

     My Administration stands with survivors, and is committed to
alleviating the public health crisis of sexual assault.  As part of the
American Rescue Plan (ARP), we included $450 million in supplemental
funding for domestic violence and sexual assault services, including
rape crisis centers.  Recognizing the added barriers faced by survivors
from historically marginalized communities — particularly survivors who
are Black, Indigenous, Latino, Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders and
other people of color — the ARP includes new funding to support
community-based organizations to provide culturally-specific services
for survivors of sexual assault and domestic violence.

     I am also proud to have created the first-ever White House Gender
Policy Council, through an Executive Order that I signed on
International Women’s Day.  In addition to its work to bring a
whole-of-government approach to gender equity in every policy we pursue,
this Council will help coordinate Federal agencies to develop a National
Action Plan to End Gender-Based Violence.  I have also established an
independent review commission that will provide recommendations to help
guide the development of new policies and enforcement measures in
keeping with my Administration’s unwavering commitment to improving the
response to, and prevention of, sexual assault and sexual harassment in
the military.

     To strengthen our national commitment to end gender-based violence,
we must also renew and further improve the Violence Against Women Act
(VAWA).  Writing and championing the passage of VAWA as a Senator is one
of my proudest legislative accomplishments — it is a law that has
transformed the way our country responds to sexual assault and intimate
partner violence.  With each reauthorization, I have worked with the
Congress to expand VAWA’s provisions on a bipartisan basis to improve
protections, including for Native American women, the lesbian, gay,
bisexual, and transgender community, as well as immigrant survivors and
survivors from communities of color and other underserved groups.  I
applaud the House of Representatives for recently passing the Violence
Against Women Reauthorization Act of 2021 with bipartisan support, and I
urge the Senate to follow their lead to renew and strengthen this
landmark law immediately.  Through this legislation, we can continue to
support Federal programs with a proven track record of helping survivors
heal, strengthen the coordinated community response, improve the
response of the criminal justice system, and provide additional pathways
to safety by supporting innovative programs and prevention efforts.

     We have made important strides thanks to courageous survivors and
dedicated advocates.  This month, we honor the strength and resilience
of sexual assault survivors, and we recommit ourselves to standing with
them for safety, dignity, and justice.  There is still much work to do,
and it will take all of us to do it.  This year’s Sexual Assault
Awareness and Prevention Month is an opportunity for every person,
employer, school, sports team, faith-based organization, and institution
to come together and commit to being part of the solution.  We must
rededicate ourselves to creating a society where sexual violence —
including sexual assault and sexual harassment — is not tolerated, where
survivors are supported, and where all people have an opportunity to
thrive without fear of abuse or assault.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim April
2021 as National Sexual Assault Awareness and Prevention Month.  I urge
all Americans to support victims when they reach out and disclose abuse.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirty-first
day of March, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-fifth.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.

.
