---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2021-03-22'
modified_time: 2021-03-22 10:44:20-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/03/22/a-proclamation-on-national-agriculture-day-2021/
published_time: 2021-03-22 10:44:19-04:00
title: "A Proclamation on National Agriculture Day,\_2021"
---
 
On National Agriculture Day, we recognize the unique and irreplaceable
value that farmers, ranchers, foresters, farmworkers, and other
agricultural stewards have contributed to our Nation’s past and present.
 America’s agriculture sector safeguards our Nation’s lands through
sustainable management; ensures the health and safety of animals,
plants, and people; provides a safe and abundant food supply; and
facilitates opportunities for prosperity and economic development in
rural America.

Over the last year, workers and other leaders across the agriculture
sector have stepped up to ensure a stable food supply in the face of
incredible challenges prompted by the COVID-19 pandemic.  Farmworkers,
who have always been vital to our food system, continued to grow,
harvest, and package food, often at great personal risk.  Local farmers
helped to meet their communities’ needs by selling food directly to
consumers. Small meat processors increased their capacity as demand for
their services skyrocketed.  Restaurants found creative ways to bring
food to members of their communities.  Grocers and grocery workers also
navigated new models, such as curbside pickup and online sales.

These collective efforts helped get food to the millions of adults and
children in America experiencing nutrition insecurity.  Programs such as
the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program; the Special Supplemental
Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children; school meals; and
others focused on eliminating nutrition insecurity play an integral role
in making sure that every family has enough food on the table.

As we overcome the pandemic and build back better, we will advance an
agriculture sector that works for everyone.  When I took office, I made
a commitment alongside Vice President Kamala Harris to put racial equity
at the forefront of our Administration’s priorities.  For generations,
Black, Indigenous, and other farmers of color have contributed to
sustaining this Nation.  They fed their communities, gave the country
new food products, and nourished communities with rich food traditions.
 Yet for generations they have faced the harmful effects of systemic
racism.  On this National Agriculture Day, I remain determined to
address racial inequity and create an equitable space for all to
participate in the great American enterprise of agriculture.

I also made a commitment to tackle the climate crisis.  Farmers,
ranchers, and foresters play a critical role in combating climate
change.  From sequestering carbon in the soil to producing renewable
energy on farms, we will continue to innovate and create new revenue
streams for farmers and ranchers while building a resilient agriculture
sector.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim March 23, 2021, as
National Agriculture Day.  I call upon all Americans to join me in
recognizing and reaffirming our commitment to and appreciation for our
country’s farmers, ranchers, foresters, farmworkers, and those who work
in the agriculture sector across the Nation.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-second
day of March, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-fifth.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
