---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2021-03-01'
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/03/01/a-proclamation-on-read-across-america-day-2021/
published_time: 2021-03-01 16:51:28-05:00
title: "A Proclamation on Read Across America Day,\_2021"
---
 
I have always believed that America’s children are the kite strings that
keep our national ambitions aloft — the more we do today to spark their
curiosity, their confidence, and their imaginations, the stronger our
country will be tomorrow.  The key to developing young learners into
engaged, active, and innovative thinkers is instilling in them a love of
reading at an early age.  Reading is the gateway to countless skills and
possibilities — it sets children on the path to a lifetime of
discovery.  On this Read Across America Day, we celebrate the parents,
educators, librarians, and other champions of reading who help launch
our Nation’s children on that critical path.

Once a passion for reading takes hold in a young person, the benefits
extend far beyond the classroom.  Reading broadens our perspective,
introduces us to new worlds, cultures, and languages, and cultivates our
sense of empathy and understanding of other people’s experiences and
views.  Reading informs us, empowers us, and teaches us the lessons of
history.  It helps us make sense of the world as it is — and inspires us
to dream of what it could be.  Studies also show that reading improves
our memory, helps us become better problem solvers, and even reduces the
chance of developing cognitive disorders such as Alzheimer’s down the
road.  And with the right book in hand, reading can nourish not only our
minds, but our souls.

The First Lady often observes that “any nation that out-educates us will
out-compete us.”  She is absolutely correct.  Literacy is essential to
finding a good-paying job, advancing in your career, and carving out
your place in the middle class.  Reading proficiency is what makes us a
Nation of innovators and entrepreneurs — a Nation capable of building
and growing a dynamic 21st century economy.  Reading comprehension is
also what allows us to discern fact from fiction — a critical skill at
all times, and especially so in the midst of a global pandemic, when the
health and safety of our loved ones could very well depend on
determining the veracity of what we read.

According to Department of Education estimates, more than half of United
States adults (54 percent) between 16- and 74-years of age lack
proficiency in literacy, reading below the equivalent of a sixth-grade
level.  Illiteracy incurs a massive economic toll on our economy, and
keeps not just individuals, but our entire Nation, from reaching our
full potential.  By every calculation, reading matters to our shared
quality of life.

For countless Americans, the path to literacy begins with story time in
their school classroom.  That is one of many reasons why my
Administration is providing support to States and communities to help
them create the conditions for students to return to safe, in-person
learning as quickly as possible.  We must ensure that all of our
children receive the high-quality instruction and essential classroom
time they need to learn and grow.  It is a national imperative that we
minimize the learning loss caused by the pandemic — and address the
disproportionate impact that lost time imposes on our most vulnerable
students and families.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim March 2, 2021, as
Read Across America Day.  I call upon children, families, educators,
librarians, public officials, and all the people of the United States to
observe this day with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this first day of March,
in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of the Independence
of the United States of America the two hundred and forty-fifth.

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
