---
date: '2023-12-05'
published_time: 2023-12-05 16:28:41-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/12/05/letter-to-the-speaker-of-the-house-and-president-of-the-senate-on-an-agreement-with-the-republic-of-the-marshall-islands/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "Letter to the Speaker of the House and President of the Senate on an Agreement\
  \ with the Republic of the Marshall\_Islands"
---
 
December 5, 2023

Dear Mr. Speaker:   (Dear Madam President:)  
  
Consistent with section 101(f) of title I of the Compact of Free
Association Amendments Act of 2003 (Public Law 108-188), I transmit
herewith the Agreement Concerning Procedures for the Implementation of
United States Economic Assistance Provided in the 2023 Amended Compact
Between the Government of the United States of America and the
Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands (2023 FPA), the
Agreement Between the Government of the United States of America and the
Government of the Republic of the Marshall Islands Regarding the Compact
Trust Fund (2023 TFA), and the Agreement between the Government of the
United States of America and the Government of the Republic of the
Marshall Islands to Amend the Compact of Free Association, as Amended
(2023 Amended Compact).  The 2023 FPA, the 2023 TFA, and the 2023
Amended Compact (Agreements) were signed at Honolulu on October 16,
2023.  
  
These Agreements with the Republic of the Marshall Islands (RMI) serve
the important purpose of assisting in the RMI’s development and
maintaining our close relationship.  The 2023 Amended Compact would
obligate the United States to provide $1.6 billion over 20 years in
grant assistance and $700 million in new Compact Trust Fund
contributions.  The 2023 FPA would maintain oversight and accountability
for United States taxpayer funds provided to support essential
government services.  The 2023 TFA would restructure the current Compact
Trust Fund in order to provide either sector support or distributions to
eligible recipients.  New contributions to the Compact Trust Fund would
be directed to support extraordinary needs distributions for people in
the RMI.      
  
Extending such assistance is a critical component of my Administration’s
Indo-Pacific, Pacific Partnership, and National Security Strategies.
 These Agreements demonstrate our long-term commitment to and strengthen
our broader bilateral relationship with the RMI, fostering economic
prosperity and stability that form the foundation of our strategic
interests in the Indo-Pacific region.  
  
I transmit herewith the 2023 Amended Compact, the 2023 FPA, and the 2023
TFA for the implementation of these Agreements related to the Compact of
Free Association Between the United States and the Republic of the
Marshall Islands.  
  
                              Sincerely,  

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
