---
date: '2023-12-08'
published_time: 2023-12-08 12:30:05-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/12/08/a-proclamation-on-human-rights-day-and-human-rights-week-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Human Rights Day and Human Rights Week,\_2023"
---
 
     Seventy-five years ago, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights
captured a remarkable act of collective hope.  Drafted by a committee
representing different regions, faiths, and philosophies and adopted by
the United Nations General Assembly, the rights enumerated in the
declaration are universal and enduring.  On Human Rights Day and during
Human Rights Week, we reaffirm our commitment to upholding the equal and
inalienable rights of all.   
  
     The United States was founded on an idea, at once the simplest and
the most powerful idea in the history of the world:  that we are all
created equal and endowed with certain inalienable rights.  Generations
later, in the wake of World War II and the Holocaust, the United States
joined countries around the world to create the United Nations and
enshrine that same idea in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights.  
  
     Today, the United States — together with our partners and allies —
continues to defend fundamental freedoms and human rights wherever they
are under threat.  We stand with people everywhere defending their
rights against the forces of autocracy — demonstrating to the world that
the flame of liberty still lights the souls of free people everywhere.  
  
     This year, we also affirmed our commitment to democratic renewal
globally at the second Summit for Democracy, bringing together nearly
100 government leaders and hundreds of representatives from civil
society and the private sector as well as journalists, technologists,
and youth leaders from around the world.  The Summit galvanized progress
to protect human rights, bolster democratic reforms, fight corruption,
support free and independent media, advance technology that works for
democracy, combat the misuse of technology, and defend free and fair
elections and political processes.   
  
     I have often said that one of America’s greatest strengths is that
we lead not by the example of our power but by the power of our
example.  We are strongest in the world when we live by our values at
home, and we must never cease working to uphold the dignity and protect
the rights of every person in this country and promote protection of
those same rights globally.  That is why my Administration has
established the White House Gender Policy Council, which works to ensure
women and girls enjoy equal rights and equal participation in society by
advancing the women, peace and security agenda, preventing and
responding to gender-based violence, and more.  We have worked to
strengthen civil rights for LGBTQI+ people at home and around the world
and to protect same-sex marriage.  We have led an intensive effort to
counter the proliferation and misuse of commercial spyware that has
enabled human rights abuses around the world.  We are working to address
systemic racism, advance racial equity, bolster support for underserved
communities throughout the Federal Government, address inequities in our
law enforcement and criminal justice systems, and expand accessibility
for people with disabilities.  As we look at today’s global challenges
online and offline, from conflict, democratic backsliding, and global
pandemics to misinformation, the misuse of technology, the climate
crisis, and food insecurity, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights
is a bedrock upon which we must tackle these issues and promote the full
enjoyment of all human rights.  
  
     Today, as we celebrate Human Rights Day, the start of Human Rights
Week, and the 75th anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human
Rights, may we all recommit to securing the equal rights of every member
of the human family and working together for the advancement of all
humankind.  Together, we can — and we will — bend the arc of history
toward a freer and more just world for all.  
  
     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
December 10, 2023, as Human Rights Day and the week beginning December
10, 2023, as Human Rights Week.  I call upon the people of the United
States to mark these observances with appropriate ceremonies and
activities.  
  
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this eighth day of
December, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-three, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-eighth.  
 

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
