---
date: '2023-12-06'
published_time: 2023-12-06 16:52:17-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/12/06/executive-order-on-reforming-federal-funding-and-support-for-tribal-nations-to-better-embrace-our-trust-responsibilities-and-promote-the-next-era-of-tribal-self-determination/
tags: presidential-actions
title: Executive Order on Reforming Federal Funding and Support for Tribal Nations
  to Better Embrace Our Trust Responsibilities and Promote the Next Era of Tribal
  Self-Determination
---
 
     By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and
the laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered as
follows:

     Section 1.  Policy.  My Administration is committed to protecting
and supporting Tribal sovereignty and self-determination, and to
honoring our trust and treaty obligations to Tribal Nations.  We
recognize the right of Tribal Nations to self-determination, and that
Federal support for Tribal self-determination has been the most
effective policy for the economic growth of Tribal Nations and the
economic well-being of Tribal citizens.  Federal policies of past eras,
including termination, relocation, and assimilation, collectively
represented attacks on Tribal sovereignty and did lasting damage to
Tribal communities, Tribal economies, and the institutions of Tribal
governance.  By contrast, the self-determination policies of the last 50
years — whereby the Federal Government has worked with Tribal Nations to
promote and support Tribal self-governance and the growth of Tribal
institutions — have revitalized Tribal economies, rebuilt Tribal
governments, and begun to heal the relationship between Tribal Nations
and the United States.

     Despite the progress of the last 50 years, Federal funding and
support programs that are the backbone of Federal support for Tribal
self-determination are too often administered in ways that leave Tribal
Nations unduly burdened and frustrated with bureaucratic processes.  The
Federal funding that Tribal Nations rely on comes from myriad sources
across the Federal Government, often with varying and complex
application and reporting processes.  While Tribal Nations continue to
rebuild, grow, and thrive, some Tribal Nations do not have the capacity
and resources they need to access Federal funds — and even for those
that do, having to repeatedly navigate Federal processes often
unnecessarily drains those resources. 

     My Administration has taken steps to meaningfully reform existing
Federal processes for Tribal Nations.  Executive Order 14058 of December
13, 2021 (Transforming Federal Customer Experience and Service Delivery
to Rebuild Trust in Government), directed executive departments and
agencies (agencies) to reduce administrative burdens and improve
efficiency in public-facing and internal Federal processes, while the
Presidential Memorandum of January 26, 2021 (Tribal Consultation and
Strengthening Nation-to-Nation Relationships), and the Presidential
Memorandum of November 30, 2022 (Uniform Standards for Tribal
Consultation), reiterated our commitment to, and established uniform
standards for, Tribal consultation.  These previous actions have laid an
important foundation for the policies and procedures set forth in this
order.

     Now is the time to build upon this foundation by ushering in the
next era of self-determination policies and our unique Nation-to-Nation
relationships, during which we will better acknowledge and engage with
Tribal Nations as respected and vital self-governing sovereigns.  As we
continue to support Tribal Nations, we must respect their sovereignty by
better ensuring that they are able to make their own decisions about
where and how to meet the needs of their communities.  No less than for
any other sovereign, Tribal self-governance is about the fundamental
right of a people to determine their own destiny and to prosper and
flourish on their own terms.  

     This order solidifies my Administration’s commitment to this next
era of Tribal self-determination policies that are rooted in
prioritizing partnerships with Tribal leaders, respect for Tribal
sovereignty, trust in Tribal priorities, and dignity for Tribal Nations.
 In keeping with our trust and treaty obligations to Tribal Nations, and
our commitment to advancing Tribal sovereignty, it is the policy of the
United States to design and administer Federal funding and support
programs for Tribal Nations, consistent with applicable law and to the
extent practicable, in a manner that better recognizes and supports
Tribal sovereignty and self-determination.  To realize this policy, the
Federal Government must improve how it approaches the work of
administering Tribal programs and supporting Tribal communities.

     We must ensure that Federal programs, to the maximum extent
possible and practicable under Federal law, provide Tribal Nations with
the flexibility to improve economic growth, address the specific needs
of their communities, and realize their vision for their future.  We
must improve our Nation-to-Nation relationships by reducing
administrative burdens and by administering funding in a manner that
provides Tribal Nations with the greatest possible autonomy to address
the specific needs of their people.  We must make it easier for Tribal
Nations to access the Federal funding and resources for which they are
eligible and that they need to help grow their economies and provide
their citizens with vital and innovative services.  We must promote
partnerships with Tribal Nations, recognizing that they bring invaluable
expertise on countless matters from how to more effectively meet the
needs of their citizens to how to steward their ancestral homelands.  We
must promote effective consideration of the unique needs of Tribal
Nations from the very beginning of our design, update, or review of
processes and throughout every step of administering Federal funding and
support programs.  We must implement laws, policies, and programs in
ways that allow Tribal Nations to take ownership of resources and
services for their communities.  We need to identify any statutory and
regulatory changes that are necessary or may be helpful to ensure that
Federal funding and support programs effectively address the needs of
Tribal Nations, and recommend legislative changes, where appropriate. 
Finally, we must, through Tribal consultation, continually improve our
understanding of the funding and programmatic needs of Tribal Nations. 
The foregoing is not only good policy, but is also consistent with our
commitment to fulfilling the United States’ unique trust responsibility
to Tribal Nations and the deep respect we have for Tribal Nations.

     Sec. 2.  Definitions.  For purposes of this order:

     (a)  The term “agency” means any authority of the United States
that is an “agency” under 44 U.S.C. 3502(1), other than those considered
to be independent regulatory agencies, as defined in 44 U.S.C. 3502(5).

     (b)  The term “Federal funding and support programs for Tribal
Nations” includes funding, programs, technical assistance, loans,
grants, or other financial support or direct services that the Federal
Government provides to Tribal Nations or Indians because of their status
as Indians.  It also includes actions or programs that do not
exclusively serve Tribes, but for which Tribal Nations are eligible
along with non-Tribal entities.  It does not include programs for which
both Indians and non-Indians are eligible.

     (c)  The terms “Tribes” and “Tribal Nations” mean any Indian tribe,
band, nation, or other organized group or community considered an
“Indian Tribe” under section 4 of the Indian Self-Determination and
Education Assistance Act, 25 U.S.C. 5304.

     Sec. 3.  Agency Coordination on Better Supporting Tribal Nations
and Identifying Opportunities for Reform.  Agencies shall work with the
White House Council on Native American Affairs (WHCNAA) to coordinate
implementation of this order, share leading practices, and identify
potential opportunities for Federal policy reforms that would promote
accessible, equitable, and flexible administration of Federal funding
and support programs for Tribal Nations.  The WHCNAA shall assist
agencies in coordinating the Tribal consultations required by section 4
of this order to minimize the burden on Tribal Nations in participating.

     Sec. 4.  Embracing Our Trust Responsibilities by Assessing Unmet
Federal Obligations to Support Tribal Nations.  The Director of the
Office of Management and Budget (OMB) and the Assistant to the President
and Domestic Policy Advisor (Domestic Policy Advisor) shall lead an
effort, in collaboration with WHCNAA, to identify chronic shortfalls in
Federal funding and support programs for Tribal Nations, and shall
submit recommendations to the President describing the additional
funding and programming necessary to better live up to the Federal
Government’s trust responsibilities and help address the needs of all
Tribal Nations, as follows:

     (a)  Within 240 days of the date of this order, the Director of OMB
and the Domestic Policy Advisor shall, in consultation with the head of
each agency that is a member of WHCNAA, and in consultation with Tribal
leaders or their designees, develop guidance for assessing the
additional funding each agency needs for its existing Federal funding
and support programs for Tribal Nations to better live up to the Federal
Government’s trust responsibilities and help address the needs of all
Tribal Nations.  

     (b)  Within 540 days of the date of this order, the head of each
agency that is a member of WHCNAA shall consult the guidance developed
under subsection (a) of this section and submit a report to the Director
of OMB and the Domestic Policy Advisor that identifies the funding
needed for each agency’s existing Federal funding and support programs
for Tribal Nations to better live up to the Federal Government’s trust
responsibilities and help address the needs of Tribal Nations in the
agency’s areas of responsibility.

     (c)  The Director of OMB and the Domestic Policy Advisor shall
develop, based on the agency reports provided under subsection (b) of
this section and in consultation with Tribes and WHCNAA, recommendations
for the Federal Government to take steps toward better living up to its
trust responsibilities and helping address the needs of all Tribal
Nations.  These recommendations should identify any budgetary,
statutory, regulatory, or other changes that may be necessary to ensure
that Federal laws, policies, practices, and programs support Tribal
Nations more effectively.  These recommendations shall be submitted to
the President, and shall be considered by agencies and OMB in developing
the President’s Budget beginning with the next regular President’s
Budget development cycle.

     (d)  After submission of the reports and recommendations described
in subsections (b) and (c) of this section, the Executive Director of
WHCNAA shall annually convene appropriate representatives of WHCNAA
member agencies to share best practices, track progress on implementing
the recommendations, and evaluate the need for reassessment of funding.

     (e)  Following submission of the recommendations described in
subsection (c) of this section, WHCNAA member agencies shall report
annually to the Director of OMB on progress made in response to such
recommendations.  The Director of OMB shall provide a summary of
agencies’ progress and any new recommendations to Tribal leaders at the
annual White House Tribal Nations Summit.

     Sec. 5.  Agency Actions to Increase the Accessibility, Equity,
Flexibility, and Utility of Federal Funding and Support Programs for
Tribal Nations*.*  Agency heads shall take the following actions to
increase the accessibility, equity, flexibility, and utility of Federal
funding and support programs for Tribal Nations, while increasing the
transparency and efficiency of Federal funding processes to better live
up to the Federal Government’s trust responsibilities and support Tribal
self-determination:

     (a)  Agencies shall design, revise, provide waivers for, and
otherwise administer Federal funding and support programs for Tribal
Nations to achieve the following objectives, to the maximum extent
practicable and consistent with applicable law:

          (i)     promote compacting, contracting, co-management,
co-stewardship, and other agreements with Tribal Nations that allow them
to partner with the Federal Government to administer Federal programs
and services;

          (ii)    identify funding programs that may allow for Tribal
set-asides or other similar resource or benefits prioritization measures
and, where appropriate, establish Tribal set-asides or prioritization
measures that meet the needs of Tribal Nations;

          (iii)   design application and reporting criteria and
processes in ways that reduce administrative burdens, including by
consolidating and streamlining such criteria and processes within
individual agencies;

          (iv)    take into account the unique needs, limited capacity,
or significant barriers faced by Tribal Nations by providing reasonable
and appropriate exceptions or accommodations where necessary;

          (v)     increase the flexibility of Federal funding for Tribal
Nations by removing, where feasible, unnecessary limitations on Tribal
spending, including by maximizing the portion of Federal funding that
can be used for training, administrative costs, and additional
personnel;

          (vi)    improve accessibility by identifying matching or
cost-sharing requirements that may unduly reduce the ability of Tribal
Nations to access resources and removing those burdens where
appropriate;

          (vii)   respect Tribal data sovereignty and recognize the
importance of Indigenous Knowledge by, when appropriate and permitted by
statute, allowing Tribal Nations to use self-certified data and avoiding
the establishment of processes that require Tribal Nations to apply to,
or obtain permission from, State or local governments to access Federal
funding or to be part of a Federal program;

          (viii)  provide Tribal Nations with the flexibility to apply
for Federal funding and support programs through inter-Tribal consortia
or other entities while requiring non-Tribal entities that apply for
Federal funding on behalf of, or to directly benefit, Tribal Nations to
include proof of Tribal consent; and

          (ix)    provide ongoing outreach and technical assistance to
Tribal Nations throughout the application and implementation process
while continually improving agencies’ understanding of Tribal Nations’
unique needs through Tribal consultation and meaningful partnerships.

     (b)  Agencies, in coordination with OMB and consistent with
applicable law, should assess Tribal Nations’ access to competitive
grant funding by tracking applications from Tribal Nations to
competitive grant programs and their funding award success rate.

     (c)  Agencies should proactively and systematically identify and
address, where possible, any additional undue burdens not discussed in
this order that Tribal Nations face in accessing or effectively using
Federal funding and support programs for Tribal Nations and their root
causes, including those causes that are regulatory, technological, or
process-based.

     (d)  Agencies’ implementation efforts shall appropriately maintain
or enhance protections afforded under existing Federal law and policy,
including those related to treaty rights and trust obligations, Tribal
sovereignty and jurisdiction, civil rights, civil liberties, privacy,
confidentiality, Indigenous Knowledge, and information access and
security.

     (e)  The WHCNAA, with support from the Secretary of the Interior as
appropriate, shall ensure that Tribal Nations can easily identify in one
location all sources of Federal funding and support programs for Tribal
Nations, and all agencies that provide such funding shall coordinate
with the Secretary of the Interior or the Secretary’s designee to
compile and regularly update the necessary information to support this
resource.

     (f)  Agencies shall identify opportunities, as appropriate and
consistent with applicable law, to modify their respective regulations,
internal and public-facing guidance, internal budget development
processes, and policies to include responsiveness to and support for the
needs of Tribal Nations as part of their respective agencies’ missions.

     (g)  Agencies shall issue internal guidance or directives, and
provide additional staff training or support, as needed and as
appropriate and consistent with applicable law, to promote the
implementation of the leading practices identified in this section and
their integration into agencies’ processes for developing policies and
programs.

     Sec. 6.  General Provisions.  (a)  Nothing in this order shall be
construed to impair or otherwise affect:

          (i)   the authority granted by law to an executive department
or agency, or the head thereof; or

          (ii)  the functions of the Director of the Office of
Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or
legislative proposals.

     (b)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law
and subject to the availability of appropriations.

     (c)  Agencies not covered by section 2(a) of this order, including
independent agencies, are strongly encouraged to comply with the
provisions of this order.

     (d)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right,
benefit, or trust responsibility, substantive or procedural, enforceable
at law or in equity by any party against the United States, its
departments, agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents,
or any other person.  
  

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.  

THE WHITE HOUSE,  
 December 6, 2023.
