---
date: '2023-12-07'
published_time: 2023-12-07 16:01:23-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/12/07/letter-to-the-speaker-of-the-house-of-representatives-and-president-pro-tempore-of-the-senate-regarding-the-war-powers-report/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "Letter to the Speaker of the House of Representatives and President pro tempore\
  \ of the Senate regarding the War Powers\_Report"
---
 
Dear Mr. Speaker:   (Dear Madam President:)  
  
I am providing this supplemental consolidated report, prepared by my
Administration and consistent with the War Powers Resolution (Public Law
93-148), as part of my efforts to keep the Congress informed about
deployments of United States Armed Forces equipped for combat.  
  
MILITARY OPERATIONS IN SUPPORT OF UNITED STATES COUNTERTERRORISM
EFFORTS  
  
In furtherance of counterterrorism efforts, the United States continues
to work with partners around the globe, with a particular focus on the
United States Central and Africa Commands’ areas of responsibility.  In
this context, the United States has deployed forces to conduct
counterterrorism operations and to advise, assist, and accompany
security forces of select foreign partners on counterterrorism
operations.  In the majority of these locations, the mission of United
States military personnel is to facilitate counterterrorism operations
of foreign partner forces and does not include routine engagement in
combat.  In many of these locations, the security environment is such
that United States military personnel may be required to defend
themselves against threats or attacks, and, to that end, the United
States may deploy United States military personnel with weapons and
other appropriate equipment for force protection.  Specific information
about counterterrorism deployments to select countries is provided
below, and a classified annex to this report provides further
information.  
  
Military Operations Conducted Pursuant to the 2001 Authorization for Use
of Military Force and in Support of Related United States
Counterterrorism Objectives  
  
Since October 7, 2001, United States Armed Forces, including Special
Operations Forces, have conducted counterterrorism combat operations,
including against al-Qa’ida and associated forces.  Since August 2014,
these operations have included targeting the Islamic State of Iraq and
Syria (ISIS), also known as the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant
(ISIL), which was formerly known as al-Qa’ida in Iraq.  In support of
these and other overseas operations, the United States has deployed
combat-equipped forces to several locations in the United States
Central, European, Africa, Southern, and Indo-Pacific Commands’ areas of
responsibility.  Such operations and deployments have been reported
previously, consistent with Public Law 107-40, Public Law 107-243, the
War Powers Resolution, and other statutes.  These ongoing operations,
which the United States has carried out with the assistance of numerous
international partners, have been successful in seriously degrading ISIS
capabilities in Syria and Iraq.  If necessary, in response to terrorist
threats, I will direct additional measures to protect the people and
interests of the United States.  It is not possible to know at this time
the precise scope or the duration of the deployments of United States
Armed Forces that are or will be necessary to counter terrorist threats
to the United States.  
  
**Afghanistan. ** United States military personnel remain postured
outside Afghanistan to address threats to the United States homeland and
United States interests that may arise from inside Afghanistan.  
  
**Iraq and Syria. ** As part of a comprehensive strategy to defeat ISIS,
United States Armed Forces are working by, with, and through local
partners to conduct operations against ISIS forces in Iraq and Syria and
against al-Qa’ida in Syria to limit the potential for resurgence of
these groups and to mitigate threats to the United States homeland.  A
small presence of United States Armed Forces remains in strategically
significant locations in Syria to conduct operations, in partnership
with local, vetted ground forces, to address continuing terrorist
threats emanating from Syria.  United States Armed Forces in Iraq
continue to advise, assist, and enable select elements of the Iraqi
security forces, including Iraqi Kurdish security forces.  United States
Armed Forces also provide limited support to the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization mission in Iraq.  United States Armed Forces, as part of
the Global Coalition to Defeat ISIS, remain present in Iraq at the
invitation of the Government of Iraq.  
  
As reported on October 27, 2023, November 10, 2023, and November 14,
2023, I directed United States forces to conduct precision strikes on
October 26, 2023, November 8, 2023, and November 12, 2023, against
facilities in eastern Syria used by Iran’s Islamic Revolutionary Guard
Corps (IRGC) and IRGC-affiliated groups for command and control,
munitions storage, training, weapons storage, and other purposes.  As
reported on November 22, 2023, I directed United States forces to
conduct discrete strikes on the night of November 21, 2023, against
facilities in Iraq used by the IRGC and IRGC-affiliated groups for
command and control, logistics, and other purposes.  These strikes
followed attacks against United States personnel and facilities in Iraq
and Syria that threatened the lives of United States personnel and
Coalition forces operating alongside United States forces, and that were
perpetrated by the IRGC and militia groups affiliated with the IRGC.  A
United States contractor suffered a fatal cardiac incident while moving
to shelter during one of these attacks.  I directed these discrete
military actions consistent with my responsibility to protect United
States citizens both at home and abroad and in furtherance of United
States national security and foreign policy interests, pursuant to my
constitutional authority as Commander in Chief and Chief Executive and
to conduct United States foreign relations.  
  
**Arabian Peninsula Region. ** A small number of United States military
personnel are deployed to Yemen to conduct operations against al-Qa’ida
in the Arabian Peninsula and ISIS.  The United States military continues
to work closely with the Republic of Yemen government and regional
partner forces to degrade the terrorist threat posed by those groups.  
  
United States Armed Forces, in a non-combat role, continue to provide
military advice and limited information to the Saudi-led Coalition for
defensive and training purposes only as they relate to territorial
defense.  Such support does not involve United States Armed Forces in
hostilities with the Houthis for the purposes of the War Powers
Resolution.  
  
United States Armed Forces are deployed to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia
to protect United States forces and interests in the region against
hostile action by Iran and Iran-backed groups.  These forces, operating
in coordination with the Government of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia,
provide air and missile defense capabilities and support the operation
of United States military aircraft.  The total number of United States
forces in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia is approximately 2,088.  
  
**Jordan. ** At the request of the Government of Jordan, approximately
3,188 United States military personnel are deployed to Jordan to support
Defeat-ISIS operations, to enhance Jordan’s security, and to promote
regional stability.  
  
**Lebanon. ** At the request of the Government of Lebanon, approximately
76 United States military personnel are deployed to Lebanon to enhance
the government’s counterterrorism capabilities and to support the
counterterrorism operations of Lebanese security forces.  
  
**Turkey. ** United States Armed Forces remain deployed to Turkey, at
the Turkish government’s request, to support Defeat-ISIS operations and
to enhance Turkey’s security.  
  
**East Africa Region. ** United States Armed Forces continue to counter
the terrorist threat posed by ISIS and al-Shabaab, an associated force
of al-Qa’ida.  Since the last periodic report, United States Armed
Forces have conducted a number of airstrikes in Somalia against
al-Shabaab in defense of our Somali partner forces.  United States Armed
Forces remain prepared to conduct airstrikes in Somalia against ISIS and
al-Shabaab terrorists.  United States military personnel conduct
periodic engagements in Somalia to train, advise, and assist regional
forces, including Somali and African Union Transition Mission in Somalia
forces, in connection with counterterrorism operations.  United States
military personnel are deployed to Kenya to support counterterrorism
operations in East Africa.  United States military personnel continue to
partner with the Government of Djibouti, which has permitted use of
Djiboutian territory for basing of United States Armed Forces.  United
States military personnel remain deployed to Djibouti, including for
purposes of staging for counterterrorism and counter-piracy operations
in the vicinity of the Horn of Africa and the Arabian Peninsula, and to
provide contingency support for embassy security augmentation in East
Africa, as necessary.  
  
**Lake Chad Basin and Sahel Region. ** United States military personnel
in the Lake Chad Basin and Sahel Region continue to conduct airborne
intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance operations and to provide
support to African and European partners conducting counterterrorism
operations in the region, including by advising, assisting, and
accompanying these partner forces.  Approximately 648 United States
military personnel remain deployed to Niger.  
  
**Cuba.**  United States Armed Forces continue to conduct humane and
secure detention operations for detainees held at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba,
under the authority provided by the 2001 Authorization for Use of
Military Force (Public Law 107-40), as informed by the law of war. 
There are 30 such detainees as of the date of this report.  
  
**Philippines. ** United States military personnel deployed to the
Philippines are providing support to the counterterrorism operations of
the armed forces of the Philippines.  
  
MILITARY OPERATIONS IN EGYPT IN SUPPORT OF THE MULTINATIONAL FORCE AND
OBSERVERS  
  
Approximately 416 United States military personnel are assigned to or
are supporting the United States contingent of the Multinational Force
and Observers, which have been present in Egypt since 1981.  
  
UNITED STATES AND NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION OPERATIONS IN
KOSOVO  
  
The United States continues to contribute forces to the Kosovo Force
(KFOR), led by the North Atlantic Treaty Organization in cooperation
with local authorities, bilateral partners, and international
institutions, to deter renewed hostilities in Kosovo.  Approximately 578
United States military personnel are among KFOR’s approximately 4,487
personnel.  
  
UNITED STATES ARMED FORCES IN NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION
COUNTRIES  
  
Approximately 80,000 United States Armed Forces personnel are assigned
or deployed to North Atlantic Treaty Organization countries in Europe,
including those deployed to reassure our allies and to deter further
Russian aggression.  
  
I have directed the participation of United States Armed Forces in all
of the above-described operations pursuant to my constitutional and
statutory authority as Commander in Chief and as Chief Executive
(including the authority to carry out Public Law 107-40, Public Law
107-243, and other statutes), as well as my constitutional and statutory
authority to conduct the foreign relations of the United States. 
Officials of my Administration and I communicate regularly with
congressional leadership, relevant congressional committees, and other
Members of Congress with regard to these deployments, and we will
continue to do so.

                                 Sincerely,   

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
