---
date: '2023-12-27'
modified_time: 2023-12-27 16:41:12-05:00
published_time: 2023-12-27 16:41:10-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/12/27/a-proclamation-on-the-50th-anniversary-of-the-endangered-species-act-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on the 50th Anniversary of the Endangered Species Act,\_2023"
---
 
     Fifty years ago, the Congress passed one of the world’s most
critical conservation laws — the Endangered Species Act.  Ever since,
the Endangered Species Act has prevented 99 percent of all fish,
wildlife, and plants under its protection from going extinct.  This law
has safeguarded the incredible biodiversity across our Nation, supported
the recovery of imperiled species, and conserved the habitats they
depend on.  As we observe this anniversary, my Administration recommits
to conserving America’s flora and fauna for generations to come.  
  
     Before the Endangered Species Act, Federal law lacked a unified
framework to protect species facing extinction, including plants and
animals that have long populated this country.  When these species
vanish, it jeopardizes the ecosystems and people that depend on them.
 Because America’s biodiversity is central to our national heritage and
identity, courageous activists and scientists refused to let our
precious wildlife disappear.  With these activists and scientists
leading the way, a group of bipartisan members of Congress came together
to pass the Endangered Species Act.  This law expanded the endangered
species list, established new protections for them, and empowered
agencies to enforce any violations of those protections.  I was proud to
vote for and contribute to the passage of the Endangered Species Act
back then, and I am proud now of its lasting legacy.  Because of these
protections, nearly 300 species have avoided extinction — from the
American alligator to the bald eagle, our national symbol.  
      
     My Administration has remained committed to restoring the full
power and promise of the Endangered Species Act and conserving our
Nation’s lands and waters.  We proposed two rules that restore critical
parts of the Endangered Species Act that were weakened during the
previous administration and recommit to using the best available science
to manage species.  Additionally, our Inflation Reduction Act invests
billions of dollars in conservation efforts — like forest management,
ecosystem restoration, watershed protection, and other efforts that will
support the recovery of imperiled wildlife and their habitats.  That
funding also includes $125 million for endangered species, directly
benefiting more than 300 species currently listed under the Endangered
Species Act.     
  
     From day one of my Administration, I have taken historic steps to
conserve our natural treasures for the ages.  During my first week in
office, I issued an Executive Order establishing the country’s
first-ever National Conservation Goal to conserve at least 30 percent of
our lands and waters by 2030.  That goal is at the heart of my “America
the Beautiful” initiative to support locally led, voluntary conservation
and restoration efforts across the country.  We are delivering on those
efforts — during my first year in office, we protected more lands and
waters than any American President since John F. Kennedy.  As we have
pursued these conservation efforts, we have continued to work with
farmers, ranchers, fishermen, landowners, Indigenous peoples, and rural
communities, who do the everyday work of sustaining and cultivating our
lands.   
  
     Additionally, my Administration began the designation process for
multiple new national marine sanctuaries, including the Hudson Canyon in
the Atlantic Ocean, the Chumash Heritage National Marine Sanctuary off
the coast of Southern California, and more than 700,000 square miles
around the Pacific Remote Islands.  If completed, the Pacific Remote
Islands sanctuary would be among the largest marine protected areas on
the planet.  The Department of the Interior has also begun the process
of conserving more than 13 million acres of lands of significant natural
and cultural value in America’s Western Arctic.   
  
     Finally, we cannot adequately protect our Nation’s biodiversity if
we do not combat the existential threat of climate change.  That is why
my Inflation Reduction Act made the largest investment in climate and
conservation ever.  Along with funding from the Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law, these investments have helped protect our iconic
outdoor spaces, implement climate-smart agriculture practices, preserve
our historic sites, and make our Nation more resilient to the
devastating impacts of climate change.  I also signed an Executive Order
to protect America’s forests, support nature-based solutions to climate
change, and initiate the first National Nature Assessment to evaluate
the state of our lands, waters, and wildlife.   
  
     As we celebrate the 50th anniversary of the Endangered Species
Act,  we recognize the incredible progress we have made over the past
five decades to protect endangered species as well as all that is
possible when we come together to conserve our planet.  Together, we can
ensure that all our Nation’s treasures — its lands, water, and all the
incredible wildlife it holds — will be enjoyed for generations to
come.   
  
     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
December 28, 2023, as the 50th Anniversary of the Endangered Species
Act.  I call upon Americans to honor all the progress we have made
toward protecting endangered species and to work together to conserve
our Nation’s incredible biodiversity.  
  
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-seventh
day of December, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-three, and
of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-eighth.  
 

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
