---
date: '2023-12-28'
published_time: 2023-12-28 12:54:11-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/12/28/a-proclamation-on-adjusting-imports-of-steel-into-the-united-states-5/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Adjusting Imports of Steel Into the United\_States"
---
 
     1.  On January 11, 2018, the Secretary of Commerce (Secretary)
transmitted to the President a report on the Secretary’s investigation
into the effect of imports of steel mill articles (steel articles) on
the national security of the United States under section 232 of the
Trade Expansion Act of 1962, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1862).  The Secretary
found and advised the President of his opinion that steel articles are
being imported into the United States in such quantities and under such
circumstances as to threaten to impair the national security of the
United States.  
  
     2.  In Proclamation 9705 of March 8, 2018 (Adjusting Imports of
Steel Into the United States), the President concurred in the
Secretary’s finding that steel articles, as defined in clause 1 of
Proclamation 9705, as amended by clause 8 of Proclamation 9711 of March
22, 2018 (Adjusting Imports of Steel Into the United States), are being
imported into the United States in such quantities and under such
circumstances as to threaten to impair the national security of the
United States, and decided to adjust the imports of those steel articles
by imposing a 25 percent ad valorem tariff on such articles imported
from all countries except Canada and Mexico.  The proclamation further
stated that any country with which the United States has a security
relationship is welcome to discuss alternative ways to address the
threatened impairment of the national security caused by imports from
that country, and noted that, should the United States and any such
country arrive at a satisfactory alternative means to address the threat
to the national security such that the President determines that imports
from that country no longer threaten to impair the national security,
the President may remove or modify the restriction on steel articles
imports from that country and, if necessary, adjust the tariff as it
applies to other countries, as the national security interests of the
United States require.      
  
     3.  In Proclamation 9711, the President noted the continuing
discussions with the European Union (EU) on behalf of its member
countries on satisfactory alternative means to address the threatened
impairment to the national security by imports of steel articles from
these countries.  Recognizing that the member countries of the EU have
an important security relationship with the United States, the President
determined that the necessary and appropriate means to address the
threat to the national security posed by imports of steel articles from
these countries was to continue the ongoing discussions and to exempt
steel articles imports from these countries from the tariff proclaimed
in Proclamation 9705 until May 1, 2018.   
  
     4.  In Proclamation 9740 of April 30, 2018 (Adjusting Imports of
Steel Into the United States), the President noted that, unless the
President determines by further proclamation that the United States has
reached a satisfactory alternative means to remove the threatened
impairment to the national security by imports of steel articles from
the member countries of the EU, the tariff proclaimed in clause 2 of
Proclamation 9705 shall be effective June 1, 2018, for these
countries.  
  
     5.  In Proclamation 10328 of December 27, 2021 (Adjusting Imports
of Steel Into the United States), I noted that the United States
successfully concluded discussions with the EU on behalf of its member
countries on satisfactory alternative means to address the threatened
impairment of the national security posed by steel articles imports from
the EU.  Specifically, the United States and the EU agreed to expand
coordination involving trade remedies and customs matters, monitor
bilateral steel and aluminum trade, cooperate on addressing non-market
excess capacity, and annually review their arrangement for alternative
means and their ongoing cooperation.  In addition, the United States and
the EU agreed to seek to conclude, by October 31, 2023, negotiations on
global steel and aluminum arrangements to restore market-oriented
conditions and support the reduction of carbon intensity of steel and
aluminum across modes of production.  
  
     6.  Pursuant to the agreement described in Proclamation 10328, the
United States implemented a number of actions, including a tariff-rate
quota that restricts the quantity of steel articles imported into the
United States from the EU without the application of the tariff
proclaimed in Proclamation 9705.  I concluded that these measures
provide an effective, long-term alternative means to address any
contribution by EU steel articles imports to the threatened impairment
of the national security by restraining steel articles imports to the
United States from the EU, limiting transshipment, discouraging excess
steel capacity and production, and strengthening the United States-EU
partnership in a fashion that will better enable future arrangements.
 In light of that agreement, I also determined that specified volumes of
eligible steel articles imports from the EU no longer threaten to impair
the national security and decided to exclude such imports from the EU up
to a designated quota from the tariff proclaimed in Proclamation 9705
through December 31, 2023.  I determined that the alternative means,
including the tariff-rate quota, advance the recommendations in the
Secretary’s January 2018 report.  I also noted that the agreed-upon
aggregate tariff-rate quota volume specified in the agreement between
the United States and the EU, totaling 3.3 million metric tons, is
consistent with the objective of reaching and maintaining a sufficient
capacity utilization rate in the domestic steel industry.  
  
     7.  During the past 2 years, the United States and the EU have made
substantial progress to identify the sources of non-market excess
capacity and the actions needed to address distortions resulting from
that non-market excess capacity.  The United States and the EU are
continuing their discussions on global steel and aluminum arrangements
to restore market-oriented conditions in their steel and aluminum
sectors and support the reduction of the greenhouse gas emissions
intensity of steel and aluminum across all modes of production.  These
discussions are anticipated to include alternative measures to prevent
imports of steel from the EU from threatening the national security of
the United States.  
  
     8.  In light of the ongoing discussions and joint actions taken
pursuant to the agreement described in Proclamation 10328, I have
determined that the necessary and appropriate means to address the
threat to the national security posed by imports of steel articles from
the member countries of the EU is to continue the discussions and joint
actions with the EU and to extend the tariff-rate quota that restricts
the quantity of steel articles imported into the United States from the
EU without the application of the tariff proclaimed in Proclamation
9705.  In order to be eligible for in-quota treatment, steel articles
must be melted and poured in the EU.  In my judgment, these measures
will provide an effective, long-term alternative means to address any
contribution by EU steel articles imports to the threatened impairment
of the national security by restraining steel articles imports to the
United States from the EU, limiting transshipment, discouraging excess
steel capacity and production, and strengthening the United States-EU
partnership in a fashion that will better enable future arrangements.  
  
     9.  In light of the ongoing discussions and joint actions taken
pursuant to the agreement described in Proclamation 10328, I have
determined that specified volumes of eligible steel articles imports
from the EU will no longer threaten to impair the national security and
have decided to exclude such imports from the EU up to a designated
quota from the tariff proclaimed in Proclamation 9705 through December
31, 2025.  The United States will monitor the implementation and
effectiveness of the tariff-rate quota and other measures agreed upon
with the EU in addressing our national security needs, and I may revisit
this determination, as appropriate.   
  
     10.  The alternative means, including the tariff-rate quota,
advance the recommendations contained in the Secretary’s January 2018
report.  The agreed-upon aggregate tariff-rate quota volume specified in
the 2021 agreement between the United States and the EU, totaling 3.3
million metric tons, remains consistent with the objective of reaching
and maintaining a sufficient capacity utilization rate in the domestic
steel industry.   
  
     11.  In Proclamation 10328, the United States agreed to renew for 2
calendar years all exclusions that were granted and utilized to import
steel products tariff-free from the EU in Fiscal Year 2021.  The United
States will renew for 2 calendar years all exclusions that were utilized
to import steel products free from section 232 tariffs from the EU in
Fiscal Year 2021 and the first quarter of calendar year 2022.  These
exclusions were granted by the Department of Commerce due to a lack of
domestic availability of the specified products in the United States.  
  
     12.  In light of my determination to adjust the tariff proclaimed
in Proclamation 9705 as applied to eligible steel articles imported from
the EU, I have considered whether it is necessary and appropriate in
light of our national security interests to make any corresponding
adjustments to such tariff as it applies to other countries.  I have
determined that it is necessary and appropriate, at this time, to
maintain the current tariff level as it applies to other countries.  
  
     13.  Section 232 of the Trade Expansion Act of 1962, as amended,
authorizes the President to adjust the imports of an article and its
derivatives that are being imported into the United States in such
quantities or under such circumstances as to threaten to impair the
national security.  
  
     14.  Section 604 of the Trade Act of 1974, as amended (19 U.S.C.
2483), authorizes the President to embody in the Harmonized Tariff
Schedule of the United States (HTSUS) the substance of statutes
affecting import treatment, and actions thereunder, including the
removal, modification, continuance, or imposition of any rate of duty or
other import restriction.  
  
     Now, Therefore, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the
United States of America, by the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, including
section 232 of the Trade Expansion Act of 1962, as amended, section 301
of title 3, United States Code, and section 604 of the Trade Act of
1974, as amended, do hereby proclaim as follows:  
  
     (1)  Clause 2 of Proclamation 9705, as amended, is revised to read
as follows:   
  
     “(2)(a)  In order to establish certain modifications to the duty
rate on imports of steel articles, subchapter III of chapter 99 of the
HTSUS is modified as provided in the Annex to this proclamation and any
subsequent proclamations regarding such steel articles.  
  
     (b)  Except as otherwise provided in this proclamation, or in
notices published pursuant to clause 3 of this proclamation, all steel
articles imports covered by heading 9903.80.01, in subchapter III of
chapter 99 of the HTSUS, shall be subject to an additional 25 percent ad
valorem rate of duty with respect to goods entered for consumption, or
withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, as follows:  (i) on or after
12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on March 23, 2018, from all countries
except Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, Mexico, South Korea, and
the member countries of the European Union; (ii) on or after 12:01 a.m.
eastern daylight time on June 1, 2018, from all countries except
Argentina, Australia, Brazil, and South Korea; (iii) on or after 12:01
a.m. eastern daylight time on August 13, 2018, from all countries except
Argentina, Australia, Brazil, South Korea, and Turkey; (iv) on or after
12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on May 20, 2019, from all countries
except Argentina, Australia, Brazil, South Korea, and Turkey; (v) on or
after 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on May 21, 2019, from all
countries except Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, Mexico, and South
Korea; (vi) on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern standard time on January 1,
2022, from all countries except Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada,
Mexico, and South Korea, and except the member countries of the European
Union through 11:59 p.m. eastern standard time on December 31, 2023, for
steel articles covered by headings 9903.80.65 through 9903.81.19,
inclusive; (vii) on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on April
1, 2022, from all countries except Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada,
Mexico, and South Korea, and except the member countries of the European
Union through 11:59 p.m. eastern standard time on December 31, 2023, for
steel articles covered by headings 9903.80.65 through 9903.81.19,
inclusive, and from Japan, for steel articles covered by headings
9903.81.25 through 9903.81.80, inclusive; (viii) on or after 12:01 a.m.
eastern daylight time on June 1, 2022, from all countries except
Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, Mexico, South Korea, and Ukraine
through 11:59 p.m. eastern daylight time on June 1, 2023, and except the
member countries of the European Union through 11:59 p.m. eastern
standard time on December 31, 2023, for steel articles covered by
headings 9903.80.65 through 9903.81.19, inclusive, and from Japan and
the United Kingdom (UK), for steel articles covered by subheadings
9903.81.25 through 9903.81.78 and heading 9903.81.80, and from the
member countries of the European Union, for steel articles covered by
heading 9903.81.81; (ix) on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on
June 1, 2023, from all countries except Argentina, Australia, Brazil,
Canada, Mexico, South Korea, and Ukraine through 11:59 p.m. eastern
daylight time on June 1, 2024, and except the member countries of the
European Union through 11:59 p.m. eastern standard time on December 31,
2023, for steel articles covered by headings 9903.80.65 through
9903.81.19, inclusive, and from Japan and the UK, for steel articles
covered by subheadings 9903.81.25 through 9903.81.78 and heading
9903.81.80, and from the member countries of the European Union, for
steel articles covered by heading 9903.81.81, and from the member
countries of the European Union where the steel used in the manufacture
of the steel article is melted and poured in Ukraine through 11:59 p.m.
eastern daylight time on June 1, 2024; and (x) on or after 12:01 a.m.
eastern standard time on January 1, 2024, from all countries except
Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, Mexico, South Korea, and Ukraine
through 11:59 p.m. eastern daylight time on June 1, 2024, and except the
member countries of the European Union through 11:59 p.m. eastern
standard time on December 31, 2025, for steel articles covered by
headings 9903.80.65 through 9903.81.19, inclusive, and from Japan and
the UK, for steel articles covered by subheadings 9903.81.25 through
9903.81.78 and heading 9903.81.80, and from the member countries of the
European Union, for steel articles covered by heading 9903.81.81, and
from the member countries of the European Union where the steel used in
the manufacture of the steel article is melted and poured in Ukraine
through 11:59 p.m. eastern daylight time on June 1, 2024.  Further,
except as otherwise provided in notices published pursuant to clause 3
of this proclamation, all steel articles imports from Turkey covered by
heading 9903.80.02, in subchapter III of chapter 99 of the HTSUS, shall
be subject to a 50 percent ad valorem rate of duty with respect to goods
entered for consumption, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on
or after 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on August 13, 2018, and prior
to 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on May 21, 2019.  All steel articles
imports covered by heading 9903.80.61, in subchapter III of chapter 99
of the HTSUS, shall be subject to the additional 25 percent ad valorem
rate of duty established herein with respect to goods entered for
consumption, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after
12:01 a.m. eastern time on the date specified in a determination by the
Secretary granting relief.  These rates of duty, which are in addition
to any other duties, fees, exactions, and charges applicable to such
imported steel articles, shall apply to imports of steel articles from
each country as specified in the preceding three sentences”.  
  
     (2)  Steel eligible for in-quota treatment under the tariff-rate
quota implemented in Proclamation 10328 and extended in this
proclamation must be melted and poured in a member country of the EU in
order to receive such treatment.  The Secretary, in consultation with
the Secretary of Homeland Security and the United States Trade
Representative, is authorized to take such actions as are necessary to
ensure compliance with this requirement.  Failure to comply could result
in applicable remedies such as the collection of the tariff set forth in
clause 2 of Proclamation 9705, or penalties under United States law.  
  
     (3)  Imports of steel articles from member countries of the EU in
excess of the tariff-rate quota quantities implemented in Proclamation
10328 and extended in this proclamation shall remain subject to the
duties imposed by clause 2 of Proclamation 9705, as amended.  The
Secretary, in consultation with the United States Trade Representative
and the Secretary of Homeland Security, shall recommend to the
President, as warranted, updates to the in-quota volumes contained in
this proclamation.  
  
     (4)  Steel articles from a member country of the EU imported under
an exclusion granted pursuant to clause 3 of Proclamation 9705, as
amended, shall not count against the in-quota volume of the tariff-rate
quota extended in this proclamation.  
  
     (5)  The Secretary is directed to renew all utilized exclusions
granted pursuant to clause 3 of Proclamation 9705, as amended, and
utilized in Fiscal Year 2021 (October 1, 2020, through September 30,
2021) and the first quarter of calendar year 2022 (January 1, 2022,
through March 31, 2022), for the import of steel articles from one or
more member countries of the EU for a period of 2 years from the date of
this proclamation.  The renewed exclusions shall be for an annual volume
equal to that volume imported from a member country of the EU pursuant
to the exclusions in Fiscal Year 2021 and the first quarter of calendar
year 2022.  The Secretary shall communicate to U.S. Customs and Border
Protection of the Department of Homeland Security the exclusions and the
volumes of steel articles from member countries of the EU that are
allowed under this provision.  The Secretary shall, by publication on
the Internet, or by other means, inform importers of the availability
and volume of exclusions renewed by this provision.  This provision does
not alter or modify in any way the ability of importers to seek
additional exclusions in accordance with clause 3 of Proclamation 9705,
as amended, and as implemented by the Department of Commerce, for the
import of steel articles from a member country of the EU.  
  
     (6)  U.S. note 16(f) to subchapter III of chapter 99 of the HTSUS
is amended by inserting, at the end of the first sentence of such note
subdivision, the phrase “, provided that such iron or steel products are
melted and poured in any member country of the European Union” after the
final appearance of the word “subdivision”.  
  
     (7)  The modifications made by this proclamation shall be effective
with respect to goods entered for consumption, or withdrawn from
warehouse for consumption, on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern standard time
on January 1, 2024, and shall continue in effect, unless such actions
are expressly reduced, modified, or terminated.  
  
     (8)  Any imports of steel articles from the member countries of the
EU that were admitted into a United States foreign trade zone under
“privileged foreign status” as defined in 19 CFR 146.41, prior to 12:01
a.m. eastern standard time on January 1, 2024, shall be subject upon
entry for consumption made on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern standard time
on January 1, 2024, to the provisions of the tariff-rate quota in effect
at the time of the entry for consumption.  
  
     (9)  Any provision of previous proclamations and Executive Orders
that is inconsistent with the actions taken in this proclamation is
superseded to the extent of such inconsistency.  
  
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-eighth
day of December, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-three, and
of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-eighth.  
 

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
