---
date: '2023-12-22'
published_time: 2023-12-22 09:12:48-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/12/22/letters-to-the-speaker-of-the-house-and-president-of-the-senate-on-taking-additional-steps-with-respect-to-the-russian-federations-harmful-activities/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "Letters to the Speaker of the House and President of the Senate on Taking\
  \ Additional Steps With Respect to the Russian Federation\u2019s Harmful\_Activities"
---
 
Dear Mr. Speaker:   (Dear Madam President:)

Pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C.
1701 *et seq*.), the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1601 *et
seq*.), and section 301 of title 3, United States Code, I hereby report
that I have issued an Executive Order to take additional steps with
respect to the national emergency declared in Executive Order 14024 of
April 15, 2021, expanded by Executive Order 14066 of March 8, 2022, and
relied on for additional steps taken in Executive Order 14039 of August
20, 2021, Executive Order 14068 of March 11, 2022, and Executive Order
14071 of April 6, 2022, with respect to the unusual and extraordinary
threat to the national security, foreign policy, and economy of the
United States posed by specified harmful foreign activities of the
Government of the Russian Federation. 

The order amends Executive Order 14024 to authorize the imposition of
sanctions on foreign financial institutions determined to have:  (i) 
conducted or facilitated any significant transaction or transactions for
or on behalf of any person designated for operating or having operated
in certain Russian Federation military-industrial sectors; or (ii)
 conducted or facilitated any significant transaction or transactions,
or provided any service, involving Russia’s military-industrial base,
including the sale, supply, or transfer, directly or indirectly, to the
Russian Federation of any item or class of items as may be determined by
the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of
State and the Secretary of Commerce. 

The order also amends Executive Order 14068 to prohibit the importation
and entry into the United States of additional products as may be
determined by the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the
Secretary of State, the Secretary of Commerce, and the Secretary of
Homeland Security, that may include:  (i)  certain categories of fish,
seafood, and preparations thereof; diamonds; and other products mined,
extracted, produced, or manufactured wholly or in part in the Russian
Federation, or harvested in waters under the jurisdiction of the Russian
Federation or by Russia-flagged vessels, notwithstanding whether such
products have been incorporated or substantially transformed into other
products outside of the Russian Federation; (ii)  products containing
such products; and (iii)  prohibited products that transited through or
were exported from or by the Russian Federation.  The order authorizes
the Secretary of Homeland Security, with the concurrence of the
Secretary of the Treasury, to prescribe rules and regulations to collect
any documentation or information as may be necessary to enforce such
additional prohibitions on importation as expeditiously as possible.

I am enclosing a copy of the Executive Order I have issued.  
   
                             Sincerely,  
   
                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
