---
date: '2023-12-15'
published_time: 2023-12-15 12:00:20-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/12/15/a-proclamation-on-wright-brothers-day-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Wright Brothers Day,\_2023"
---
 
     One hundred twenty years ago on the sand dunes of Kitty Hawk, North
Carolina, two brothers forever changed the course of history.  Wilbur
and Orville Wright achieved one of the most transformative technological
advancements in the history of humankind:  the first-ever sustained,
controlled, and powered flight.  This Wright Brothers Day, we honor
Wilbur and Orville’s quintessentially American spirit of innovation and
ingenuity, and we celebrate their enduring legacy as pioneers who took
our Nation to new heights.  
  
     On December 17, 1903, after years of arduous research, meticulous
designs, and dangerous trials, Wilbur and Orville launched the Wright
Flyer.  Twelve seconds and 120 feet later, the brothers had achieved
controlled flight.  Their feat propelled our Nation forward,
accelerating advancements in aeronautics and bringing us closer to
unlocking the full potential of humanity.  Through their determination
and bold vision, the Wright Brothers laid the foundations for some of
the greatest technological developments on record — from breaking the
sound barrier and stepping foot on the moon to flying a helicopter on
Mars and launching deep-space telescopes that are answering some of the
fundamental questions of the universe.  The legacy of the Wright
brothers lives on through the talents and spirits of today’s American
dreamers and doers.  
  
     Most of all, Wilbur and Orville’s advancement led to a new American
innovation:  modern air travel.  My Administration is committed to
preserving and investing in this legacy by enhancing safety and comfort
from takeoff to landing.  Through the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, we
are improving airport infrastructure across the country — expanding
capacity at airport terminals, increasing energy efficiency, and making
air travel more accessible for people with disabilities — all while
creating good jobs across our Nation.   
  
     I have often said that America can be defined in one word: 
possibilities.  This Wright Brothers Day, let us recognize these two
courageous brothers from Dayton, Ohio, for reminding us what we can
accomplish when we work together to reach our loftiest dreams and tackle
our greatest challenges.  May we recommit to carrying forward their bold
spirit of creativity and cooperation as we forge a better future for
all.  
  
     The Congress, by a joint resolution approved December 17, 1963, as
amended (77 Stat. 402; 36 U.S.C. 143), has designated December 17 of
each year as “Wright Brothers Day” and has authorized and requested the
President to issue annually a proclamation inviting the people of the
United States to observe that day with appropriate ceremonies and
activities.  
  
     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, do hereby proclaim December 17, 2023, as Wright
Brothers Day.  
  
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this fifteenth day
of December, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-three, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-eighth.  
 

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
