---
date: '2023-12-29'
published_time: 2023-12-29 17:35:02-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/12/29/a-proclamation-on-national-stalking-awareness-month-2024/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Stalking Awareness Month,\_2024"
---
 
     During National Stalking Awareness Month, we honor the strength and
resilience of the millions of people across this country who have
endured stalking.  We reaffirm our commitment to building a future where
everyone can live free from fear, threats, and abuse.   
  
     Stalking at its core is an abuse of power.  It affects one in three
women and one in six men in their lifetimes.  It can happen in person or
online; it can be committed by a stranger or someone you know.  The fear
it sparks can be all-consuming, shattering one’s sense of security,
safety, and certainty.  It can threaten loved ones and even force
victims to uproot their lives and move at a moment’s notice.  It is
wrong.     
  
     One of my proudest achievements in life was writing and championing
the landmark Violence Against Women Act some 30 years ago in the United
States Senate.  It began to change our culture, bringing these crimes
out of the shadows and getting survivors the services and support they
needed.  Over the years, I worked with courageous advocates to keep
expanding protections and boosting access to healing and justice.  In
2022, I was proud to sign a reauthorization of the law, increasing
investment in prosecution, prevention, and support for survivors of
domestic violence, sexual assault, and stalking.  The new law also
creates a Federal civil cause of action for the non-consensual
distribution of intimate images and expands the jurisdiction of Tribal
courts to prosecute non-Native American perpetrators of stalking, sexual
assault, child abuse, and sex trafficking.  
  
     At the same time, we are working to make sure our response keeps
pace with technology and protects all Americans from online harassment
and cybercrime.  In 2022, I created the White House Task Force to
Address Online Harassment and Abuse to help stop technology-facilitated
gender-based violence.  It aims to find new ways to boost
accountability, support survivors, and further research the threat. 
Survivors, parents, educators, advocates, medical and legal
professionals, and others have shared their expertise with the task
force, which will help inform their work.  
  
     This past May, I also released America’s first-ever National Plan
to End Gender-Based Violence, which tackles the issue on seven fronts —
prevention, healing, housing, online safety, the justice system, crisis
response, and data.  Since the beginning of my Administration, the
Department of Justice’s Office on Violence Against Women has provided
grants to law enforcement, prosecutors, courts, and community
organizations to work together to stop stalking and other gender-based
crimes. The Department of Housing and Urban Development has provided
tens of thousands of emergency housing vouchers to help stalking victims
and others find a safe place to rebuild their lives.  
  
     Too often, stalking happens in the shadows, hidden from the view of
others.  This month, we shine a harsh light on these crimes to make
clear that this kind of harassment, threat, or unwanted aggressive
attention has no place in America.  There is so much at stake.  Every
American deserves to feel safe and protected, have a little peace of
mind, and live with dignity and respect.  
  
     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
January 2024 as National Stalking Awareness Month.  I call on all
Americans to speak out against stalking and to support the efforts of
advocates, courts, service providers, and law enforcement to help those
who are targeted and send the message to perpetrators that these crimes
will not go unpunished.  
  
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-ninth
day of December, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-three, and
of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-eighth.  
 

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
