---
date: '2023-12-27'
published_time: 2023-12-27 16:32:50-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/12/27/memorandum-regarding-the-presidential-determination-and-waiver-pursuant-to-section-303-of-the-defense-production-act-of-1950-as-amended-on-essential-medicines-medical-countermeasures-and-critical/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "Memorandum regarding the Presidential Determination and Waiver Pursuant to\
  \ Section 303 of the Defense Production Act of 1950, as amended, on Essential Medicines,\
  \ Medical Countermeasures, and Critical\_Inputs"
---
 
Presidential Determination  
No.       2024-03         

MEMORANDUM FOR THE SECRETARY OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES  
  
SUBJECT:       Presidential Determination and Waiver Pursuant to Section
303 of the Defense Production Act of 1950, as amended, on Essential
Medicines, Medical Countermeasures, and Critical Inputs  
  
  
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, including section 303 of the
Defense Production Act of 1950, as amended (the “Act”) (50 U.S.C. 4533),
it is hereby ordered as follows:  
  
     Section 1.  Determination.  (a)  I hereby determine, pursuant to
section 303(a)(5) of the Act, that:  
  
          (i)    the essential medicines, medical countermeasures, and
critical inputs referenced in subsection (b) of this section are
industrial resources, materials, or critical technology items essential
to the national defense;  
  
          (ii)   without Presidential action under section 303 of the
Act, United States industry cannot reasonably be expected to provide the
capability for the needed industrial resources, materials, or critical
technology items in a timely manner; and  
  
          (iii)  purchases, purchase commitments, or other action
pursuant to section 303 of the Act are the most cost-effective,
expedient, and practical alternative method for meeting the need.  
  
     (b)  The scope of projects implemented pursuant to section 303 of
the Act under the determination in this section is limited to drug and
biologic essential medicines, medical countermeasures, and critical
inputs identified, as of the date of this determination, pursuant to
section 3(c) of Executive Order 13944 of August 6, 2020 (Combating
Public Health Emergencies and Strengthening National Security by
Ensuring Essential Medicines, Medical Countermeasures, and Critical
Inputs Are Made in the United States).  
  
     Sec. 2.  Waiver of Statutory Requirements.   Pursuant to section
303(a)(7)(B) of the Act, I find that action to expand the domestic
production capabilities for essential medicines, medical
countermeasures, and critical inputs is necessary to avert an industrial
resource or critical technology item shortfall that would severely
impair national defense capability.  Therefore, I waive the requirements
of section 303(a)(5)-(a)(6) of the Act for the purpose of expanding the
domestic production capabilities for essential medicines, medical
countermeasures, and critical inputs needed for national defense.  
  
     Sec. 3.  General Provisions.  (a)  Nothing in this determination
shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:  
  
          (i)   the authority granted by law to an executive department
or agency, or the head thereof; or  
  
          (ii)  the functions of the Director of the Office of
Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or
legislative proposals.  
  
     (b)  This determination shall be implemented consistent with
applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.  
  
     (c)  This determination is not intended to, and does not, create
any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or
in equity by any party against the United States, its departments,
agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other
person.  
  
     (d)  You are authorized and directed to publish this determination
in the *Federal Register*.  

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
