---
date: '2023-12-06'
published_time: 2023-12-06 14:26:12-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/12/06/a-proclamation-on-national-pearl-harbor-remembrance-day-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Pearl Harbor Remembrance Day,\_2023"
---
 
     On this day 82 years ago, 2,403 service members and civilians were
killed in a painful and unprovoked attack on our Armed Forces.  On
National Pearl Harbor Remembrance Day, we remember these women and men,
who gave their last full measure of devotion to our Nation.  We honor
the brave service members who — with the horrors of Pearl Harbor
weighing on their hearts and the hopes of humanity resting on their
shoulders — answered the call to defend freedom against the forces of
fascism during World War II.  
  
     The stories of the Greatest Generation’s ultimate courage and
commitment continue to inspire an enduring sense of unity and purpose
throughout our Nation.  They remind us that, in the darkest of moments,
we have the power to bend the arc of history toward a freer and more
just future.  They remind us that, from death, destruction, and
division, we can build a better world — one grounded in peace and
security.  They remind us that the forces of tyranny and terrorism are
no match for the flame of liberty that burns in the hearts of free
people everywhere.  Above all, they remind us that every generation can
— and must — defeat democracy’s mortal foes.  
  
     Together, we must continue to answer that call.  We must continue
to honor our sacred obligation to care for our service members;
veterans; and their families, caregivers, and survivors — including our
World War II veterans, who dared all and risked all for our country.
 With bipartisan support in the Congress, my Administration is meeting
that obligation — including now welcoming all World War II veterans to
enroll in Veterans Affairs health care services, regardless of length of
service or financial status.  
  
     As we honor the patriots who perished on this tragic day 82 years
ago and the service members who defended democracy in the days and years
that followed, let us carry forward their mission of forging a better
future for humankind, one of greater dignity, opportunity, and security
for all.  Let us remember that we are the United States of America — and
there is nothing beyond our capacity if we do it together.  
  
     The Congress, by Public Law 103-308, as amended, has designated
December 7 of each year as “National Pearl Harbor Remembrance Day.” 
Today, let us commemorate the patriots who were wounded and who perished
on December 7, 1941, and continue to fulfill our sacred obligation to
care for our service members; veterans; and their families, caregivers,
and survivors.  
  
     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, do hereby proclaim December 7, 2023, as National
Pearl Harbor Remembrance Day.  I encourage all Americans to reflect on
the courage shown by our brave service members that day and remember
their sacrifices.  I ask us all to give sincere thanks and appreciation
to the survivors of that unthinkable day.  I urge all Federal agencies,
interested organizations, groups, and individuals to fly the flag of the
United States at half-staff on December 7, 2023, in honor of those
American patriots who died as a result of their service at Pearl
Harbor.  
  
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this sixth day of
December, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-three, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-eighth.  
 

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
