---
date: '2023-12-29'
published_time: 2023-12-29 12:09:30-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/12/29/a-proclamation-on-national-mentoring-month-2024/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Mentoring Month,\_2024"
---
 
     During National Mentoring Month, we celebrate the millions of
mentors across the country who step up and give their time, care, and
hearts to make sure every young person in our Nation has a fair shot at
the American Dream.  
  
     For most young people, a bond or even a conversation with someone
who believes in them can make a tremendous difference in their lives,
exposing them to new goals, new ideas, and new ways of doing things.
 Since day one, my Administration has been working to support those
kinds of relationships — in schools, in communities, and in the
workforce.  Through the American Rescue Plan, we secured a historic $130
billion for America’s K‑12 schools, which helped put more teachers in
classrooms and more counselors, social workers, and supportive staff in
our schools.  States and districts have also used these investments to
provide high-quality tutoring and summer and after-school programs for
students.  Further, it boosted funding for AmeriCorps to expand its
service options and hire new mentors to volunteer in our communities.
 My Administration also launched the National Partnership for Student
Success last year, with a goal of recruiting 250,000 adults by the
summer of 2025 to encourage, tutor, and coach young people as they chart
a path forward.  At the same time, working with labor unions, we have
made historic investments in pre-apprenticeship and Registered
Apprenticeship programs that provide guidance and skills to help young
people build meaningful careers.  In addition, we created the American
Climate Corps — a workforce training and service initiative that will
put more than 20,000 Americans to work in clean energy, conservation,
and climate resilience jobs.   
  
     These programs give young people a chance to connect with others —
to discover who they are, what they care about, and how to achieve their
dreams.  Any one of us can have a positive impact on a young person’s
life if we take the time to let them know that someone is on their side.
 Doing so, often has a tremendously powerful impact on a mentor’s life
as well.  During National Mentoring Month, I urge Americans of all ages
— friends, neighbors, college students, coaches, employers, community
and faith leaders, and everyday people just looking to make a difference
— to visit americorps.gov/serve and partnershipstudentsuccess.org to
learn more about becoming a mentor or tutor.  
  
     The greatness of a nation is measured in part by how it prepares
its next generation to succeed.  Ours is a great Nation, and together,
as mentors, we can each change a young person’s life for the better —
and with it, help guarantee our country a future of unlimited
possibilities.  
  
     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
January 2024 as National Mentoring Month.  I call upon Americans across
the country to observe this month with mentoring, appropriate
ceremonies, activities, and programs.  
  
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-ninth
day of December, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-three, and
of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-eighth.  
 

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
