---
date: '2023-12-22'
modified_time: 2023-12-22 08:09:48-05:00
published_time: 2023-12-22 08:09:47-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/12/22/a-proclamation-on-granting-pardon-for-the-offense-of-simple-possession-of-marijuana-attempted-simple-possession-of-marijuana-or-use-of-marijuana/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Granting Pardon for the Offense of Simple Possession of\
  \ Marijuana, Attempted Simple Possession of Marijuana, or Use of\_Marijuana"
---
 
     In Proclamation 10467 of October 6, 2022 (Granting Pardon for the
Offense of Simple Possession of Marijuana), I exercised my authority
under the Constitution to pardon individuals who committed or were
convicted of the offense of simple possession of marijuana in violation
of the Controlled Substances Act and section 48–904.01(d)(1) of the Code
of the District of Columbia (D.C. Code).  As I have said before,
convictions for simple possession of marijuana have imposed needless
barriers to employment, housing, and educational opportunities.  Through
this proclamation, consistent with the grant of Proclamation 10467, I am
pardoning additional individuals who may continue to experience the
unnecessary collateral consequences of a conviction for simple
possession of marijuana, attempted simple possession of marijuana, or
use of marijuana.  Therefore, acting pursuant to the grant of authority
in Article II, Section 2, of the Constitution of the United States, I,
Joseph R. Biden Jr., do hereby grant a full, complete, and unconditional
pardon to all current United States citizens and lawful permanent
residents who, on or before the date of this proclamation, committed or
were convicted of the offense of simple possession of marijuana,
attempted simple possession of marijuana, or use of marijuana,
regardless of whether they have been charged with or prosecuted for
these offenses on or before the date of this proclamation, in violation
of:  
  
(1)  section 844 of title 21, United States Code, section 846 of title
21, United States Code, and previous provisions in the United States
Code that prohibited simple possession of marijuana or attempted simple
possession of marijuana;   
  
(2)  section 48-904.01(d)(1) of the D.C. Code and previous provisions in
the D.C. Code that prohibited simple possession of marijuana;  
  
(3)  section 48-904.09 of the D.C. Code and previous provisions in the
D.C. Code that prohibited attempted simple possession of marijuana;
and  
  
(4)  provisions in the Code of Federal Regulations, including as
enforced under the United States Code, that prohibit only the simple
possession or use of marijuana on Federal properties or installations,
or in other locales, as currently or previously codified, including but
not limited to 25 C.F.R. 11.452(a); 32 C.F.R. 1903.12(b)(2); 36 C.F.R.
2.35(b)(2); 36 C.F.R. 1002.35(b)(2); 36 C.F.R. 1280.16(a)(1); 36 C.F.R.
702.6(b); 41 C.F.R. 102-74.400(a); 43 C.F.R. 8365.1-4(b)(2); and 50
C.F.R. 27.82(b)(2).  
 

     My intent by this proclamation is to pardon only the offenses of
simple possession of marijuana, attempted simple possession of
marijuana, or use of marijuana in violation of the Federal and D.C. laws
set forth in paragraphs (1) through (3) of this proclamation, as well as
the provisions in the Code of Federal Regulations consistent with
paragraph (4) of this proclamation, and not any other offenses involving
other controlled substances or activity beyond simple possession of
marijuana, attempted simple possession of marijuana, or use of
marijuana, such as possession of marijuana with intent to distribute or
driving offenses committed while under the influence of marijuana.  This
pardon does not apply to individuals who were non-citizens not lawfully
present in the United States at the time of their offense.  
  
     Pursuant to the procedures in Proclamation 10467, the Attorney
General, acting through the Pardon Attorney, shall review all properly
submitted applications for certificates of pardon and shall issue such
certificates of pardon to eligible applicants in due course.   
  
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-second
day of December, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-three, and
of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-eighth.  
 

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
