---
date: '2023-12-01'
published_time: 2023-12-01 12:44:07-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/12/01/a-proclamation-on-international-day-of-persons-with-disabilities-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on International Day of Persons with Disabilities,\_2023"
---
 
On International Day of Persons with Disabilities, we recommit to
building a world where disabled people everywhere are treated with the
dignity and respect they deserve and are afforded an equal shot at
achieving their dreams.

     Many Americans can still recall when — just over three decades ago
— a person could legally be denied service in a restaurant and employers
could refuse to hire them on the basis of their disability.  Since the
beginning of my career, I have worked hard to change that.  One of my
earliest acts as a United States Senator was co-sponsoring the
Rehabilitation Act, which banned discrimination on the basis of
disability by any entity funded by the Federal Government.  Years later,
I was proud to co-sponsor the Americans with Disabilities Act — a
landmark piece of legislation that banned discrimination against
disabled people in workplaces, schools, public transit, and more.

     In the years since, over 180 nations around the world have passed
similar laws, delivering justice to millions of people with disabilities
worldwide.  But there is still more to do at home and abroad to ensure
they have equal opportunities.  Too often, disabled Americans are unable
to vote, get to and from school, and enjoy public spaces, and are paid
less for doing the same work.  Around the world, disabled people
continue to face discrimination, harassment, exploitation, abuse, and
violence, which inhibits their full participation in society.

     That is why my Administration has worked to ensure that the dignity
and rights of disabled Americans are lifted in every policy we pursue.
 Through my American Rescue Plan, we have taken action to improve access
to health care for disabled Americans, including providing billions of
dollars to all 50 States to expand home- and community-based services
under Medicaid so that more people with disabilities can live
independently at home.  Through the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, we
have invested billions of dollars more in building a country that works
for everyone — from repairing and improving accessibility in airports
and transit stations to expanding access to high-speed internet so more
disabled Americans can work, study, and stay connected from home. 
Additionally, the Department of Justice proposed standards for State and
local governments to make their internet content and mobile apps more
accessible to disabled Americans so that they can easily do things like
travel to and from work and school, care for themselves and their loved
ones, and vote.

     My Administration is also working to uphold the dignity and freedom
of disabled people worldwide.  For example, I released the first-ever
memorandum on Advancing Worker Empowerment, Rights, and High Labor
Standards Globally, which directed departments and agencies to account
for the particular needs of persons with disabilities in promoting labor
rights. At the United Nations General Assembly in September, I met with
leaders from Central Asia at the first-ever C5+1 Presidential Summit and
launched a joint disability rights initiative aimed at integrating
disability rights, promoting inclusive education, and increasing
infrastructure accessibility.  At the Department of State, I
reestablished the role of Special Advisor on International Disability
Rights so that the needs of disabled people are consistently represented
in foreign policy.  Through our participation as a co-chair of the
Global Action on Disability Network and a participant in the Global
Disability Summit, the United States continues to stand for the equal
rights of people with disabilities around the world.

     Today, as we celebrate the dignity, resilience, and immense
contributions of disabled people everywhere, we recognize that our
progress is not just about protecting disability rights — it is about
promoting disability pride.  For many of the over one billion disabled
people around the world, disability is a source of identity and power —
and it is our responsibility to ensure everyone has equal opportunities
to reach their full potential.  

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
December 3, 2023, as International Day of Persons with Disabilities.  I
call on all Americans to observe this day with appropriate ceremonies,
activities, and programs.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this first day of
December, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-three, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-eighth.

                                                                       
                                  JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
