---
date: '2023-12-14'
published_time: 2023-12-14 16:08:47-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/12/14/a-proclamation-on-bill-of-rights-day-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Bill of Rights Day,\_2023"
---
 
     On December 15, 1791, after years of debate and deliberation, our
forebearers ratified the Bill of Rights.  In doing so, they forever
enshrined the fundamental rights and liberties we hold sacred as
Americans and set in motion the greatest self-governance experiment in
the history of the world.  
  
     The freedoms guaranteed by the Bill of Rights — the freedoms of
religion, speech, press, assembly, privacy, and more — have helped
define who we are as a people and served as our Nation’s enduring North
Star.  The 17 additional Amendments that have been ratified since have
opened the doors of opportunity wider to each new generation.  But time
and again we have been reminded that progress is not linear and freedom
is never guaranteed; it requires constant vigilance.  
  
     The Supreme Court took away a constitutional right from the
American people, denying women across the Nation the right to choose, a
right that had been enshrined in a half-century of precedent.  In recent
years, more than 20 States have passed laws that make it harder to
vote.  A wave of anti-LGBTQI+ bills is threatening Americans’ freedom to
live openly and authentically.  As a Nation, we have a duty to oppose
these regressions and defend the values represented in our founding
documents.  
  
     As President, I act on that duty every day.  In the wake of the
Supreme Court decision overturning *Roe v. Wade*, I issued three
Executive Orders to protect a woman’s ability to access comprehensive
reproductive health care services.  I continue to call on the Congress
to restore the protections of *Roe v. Wade* in Federal law.  Because the
right to vote and have your vote counted is the threshold of democracy,
I continue to urge the Congress to pass the Freedom to Vote Act and the
John Lewis Voting Rights Advancement Act.  These bills would restore and
expand access to the ballot and prevent voter suppression.  I was also
proud to sign the Electoral Count Reform Act, helping preserve the will
of the people and protect the peaceful transfer of power.  My
Administration has made strides in defending the rights and dignity of
the LGBTQI+ community.  On my first day in office, I signed a historic
Executive Order charging the Federal Government with protecting LGBTQI+
people from discrimination.  Last December, surrounded by dozens of
couples who have fought for marriage equality in the courts for decades,
I had the great honor of signing into law the landmark Respect for
Marriage Act to protect the rights of same-sex and interracial
couples.  
  
     It is worth giving our all for the rights and liberties that
undergird our democracy, for they define the soul of our Nation.  This
cause should unite every one of us, regardless of political
affiliation.  In the face of threats posed to our institutions, we must
remember that democracies do not have to die violently — they can die
quietly, when people fail to stand up for the values and guarantees
enshrined in our Nation’s Constitution.  This Bill of Rights Day, let us
all recommit to safeguarding the fundamental freedoms secured in those
first 10 Amendments and those that followed.  In our lives and in
the life of our Nation, let us keep marching toward our North Star —
making real the promise of dignity, equality, and opportunity for all.  
  
     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
December 15, 2023, as Bill of Rights Day.  I call upon the people of the
United States to observe this day with appropriate ceremonies and
activities.  
  
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this fourteenth day
of December, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-three, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-eighth.  
   
 

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
