---
date: '2023-12-28'
published_time: 2023-12-28 12:58:51-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/12/28/a-proclamation-on-adjusting-imports-of-aluminum-into-the-united-states-5/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Adjusting Imports of Aluminum Into the United\_States"
---
 
     1.  On January 19, 2018, the Secretary of Commerce (Secretary)
transmitted to the President a report on the Secretary’s investigation
into the effect of imports of aluminum articles on the national security
of the United States under section 232 of the Trade Expansion Act of
1962, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1862).  The Secretary found and advised the
President of his opinion that aluminum articles are being imported
into the United States in such quantities and under such circumstances
as to threaten to impair the national security of the United States.  
  
     2.  In Proclamation 9704 of March 8, 2018 (Adjusting Imports of
Aluminum Into the United States), the President concurred in the
Secretary’s finding that aluminum articles are being imported into the
United States in such quantities and under such circumstances as to
threaten to impair the national security of the United States, and
decided to adjust the imports of aluminum articles (aluminum articles),
by imposing a 10 percent ad valorem tariff on such articles imported
from all countries except Canada and Mexico.  Proclamation 9704 further
stated that any country with which the United States has a security
relationship is welcome to discuss alternative ways to address the
threatened impairment of the national security caused by imports from
that country, and noted that, should the United States and any such
country arrive at a satisfactory alternative means to address the threat
to the national security such that the President determines that imports
from that country no longer threaten to impair the national security,
the President may remove or modify the restriction on aluminum articles
imports from that country and, if necessary, adjust the tariff as it
applies to other countries, as the national security interests of the
United States require.    
  
     3.  In Proclamation 9710 of March 22, 2018 (Adjusting Imports of
Aluminum Into the United States), the President noted the continuing
discussions with the European Union (EU) on behalf of its member
countries on satisfactory alternative means to address the threatened
impairment to the national security by aluminum articles imported from
the EU.  Recognizing that the EU has an important security relationship
with the United States, the President determined that the necessary and
appropriate means to address the threat to the national security posed
by imports of aluminum articles from the member countries of the EU was
to continue the ongoing discussions and to exempt aluminum articles
imports from these countries from the tariff proclaimed in Proclamation
9704 until May 1, 2018.  In Proclamation 9739 of April 30, 2018
(Adjusting Imports of Aluminum Into the United States), the President
noted that, unless the President determines by further proclamation that
the United States has reached a satisfactory alternative means to remove
the threatened impairment to the national security by imports of
aluminum articles from the member countries of the EU, the tariff
proclaimed in clause 2 of Proclamation 9704 shall be effective June 1,
2018, for these countries.  
  
     4.  In Proclamation 10327 of December 27, 2021 (Adjusting Imports
of Aluminum Into the United States), I noted that the United States
successfully concluded discussions with the EU on behalf of the EU’s
member countries on satisfactory alternative means to address the
threatened impairment of the national security posed by aluminum
articles imports from the EU.  The United States and the EU agreed to
expand coordination involving trade remedies and customs matters,
monitor bilateral steel and aluminum trade, cooperate on addressing
non-market excess capacity, and annually review their arrangement and
their ongoing cooperation.  In addition, the United States and the
EU agreed to seek to conclude, by October 31, 2023, negotiations
on global steel and aluminum arrangements to restore market-oriented
conditions and support the reduction of carbon intensity of steel and
aluminum across modes of production.  
  
     5.  Pursuant to the agreement described in Proclamation 10327, the
United States implemented a number of actions, including a tariff-rate
quota that restricts the quantity of aluminum articles imported into the
United States from the EU without the application of the tariff
proclaimed in Proclamation 9704.  I concluded that these measures
provide an effective, long-term alternative means to address any
contribution by EU aluminum articles imports to the threatened
impairment to the national security by restraining aluminum articles
imports to the United States from the EU, limiting transshipment, and
discouraging excess aluminum capacity and production.  In light of this
agreement, I also determined that specified volumes of eligible aluminum
articles imports from the EU no longer threaten to impair the national
security and decided to exclude such imports from the EU up to a
designated quota from the tariff proclaimed in Proclamation 9704 through
December 31, 2023.  I also found that the agreed-upon aggregate
tariff-rate quota volume, totaling 18,000 metric tons of unwrought
aluminum and 366,040 metric tons of semi-finished wrought aluminum, is
consistent with the objective of reaching and sustaining a sufficient
capacity utilization rate in the domestic aluminum industry.  
  
     6.  During the past 2 years, the United States and the EU have made
substantial progress to identify the sources of non‑market excess
capacity and the actions needed to address distortions resulting from
that non-market excess capacity.  The United States and the EU are
continuing their discussions on global steel and aluminum arrangements
to restore market-oriented conditions in their steel and aluminum
sectors and support the reduction of the greenhouse gas emissions
intensity of steel and aluminum across all modes of production.  These
discussions are anticipated to include alternative measures to prevent
imports of aluminum from the EU from threatening the national security
of the United States.  
  
     7.  In light of the ongoing discussions and joint actions pursuant
to the agreement described in Proclamation 10327, I have determined that
the necessary and appropriate means to address the threat to the
national security posed by imports of aluminum articles from the member
countries of the EU is to continue the discussions and joint actions
with the EU and to extend the tariff-rate quota that restricts the
quantity of aluminum articles imported into the United States from the
EU without the application of the tariff proclaimed in Proclamation
9704.  In order to be eligible for in-quota treatment, all imports of
aluminum articles from the EU must be accompanied by a certificate of
analysis.  In my judgment, these measures will provide an effective,
long-term alternative means to address any contribution by EU aluminum
articles imports to the threatened impairment of the national security
by restraining aluminum articles imports to the United States from the
EU, limiting transshipment, discouraging excess aluminum capacity and
production, and strengthening the United States-EU partnership in a
fashion that will better enable future arrangements.  
  
     8.  In light of the ongoing discussions and joint actions taken
pursuant to the agreement described in Proclamation 10327, I have
determined that specified volumes of eligible aluminum articles imports
from the EU will no longer threaten to impair the national security and
have decided to exclude such imports from the EU up to a designated
quota from the tariff proclaimed in Proclamation 9704 through December
31, 2025.  The United States will monitor the implementation and
effectiveness of the tariff-rate quota and other measures agreed upon
with the EU in addressing our national security needs, and I may revisit
this determination, as appropriate.   
  
     9.  The alternative means, including the tariff-rate quota, align
with the recommendations specified in the original investigation into
the effect of imports of aluminum articles on the national security of
the United States under section 232 of the Trade Expansion Act of 1962,
as amended.  The agreed-upon aggregate tariff-rate quota volume
specified in the 2021 agreement between the United States and the EU,
totaling 18,000 metric tons of unwrought aluminum and 366,040 metric
tons of semi-finished wrought aluminum, remains consistent with the
objective of reaching and sustaining a sufficient capacity utilization
rate in the domestic aluminum industry.  
  
     10.  In light of my determination to adjust the tariff proclaimed
in Proclamation 9704 as applied to eligible aluminum articles imports
from the EU, I have considered whether it is necessary and appropriate
in light of our national security interests to make any corresponding
adjustments to such tariff as it applies to other countries.  I have
determined that it is necessary and appropriate, at this time, to
maintain the current tariff level as it applies to other countries.  
  
     11.  Section 232 of the Trade Expansion Act of 1962, as amended,
authorizes the President to adjust the imports of an article and its
derivatives that are being imported into the United States in such
quantities or under such circumstances as to threaten to impair the
national security.  
  
     12.  Section 604 of the Trade Act of 1974, as amended ([19 U.S.C.
2483)](https://www.govinfo.gov/link/uscode/19/2483), authorizes the
President to embody in the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United
States (HTSUS) the substance of statutes affecting import treatment, and
actions thereunder, including the removal, modification, continuance,
or imposition of any rate of duty or other import restriction.  
  
     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by the authority vested in me by the Constitution and
the laws of the United States of America, including section 232 of the
Trade Expansion Act of 1962, as amended, section 301 of title 3, United
States Code, and section 604 of the Trade Act of 1974, as amended, do
hereby proclaim as follows:  
  
     (1)  Clause 2 of Proclamation 9704, as amended, is further amended
in the second sentence by deleting “and” before “(j)” and inserting
before the period at the end:  “, and (k) on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern
standard time on March 10, 2023, from all countries except Argentina,
Australia, Canada, Mexico, and from the member countries of the European
Union through 11:59 p.m. eastern standard time on December 31, 2025,
from the United Kingdom, for aluminum articles covered by headings
9903.85.25 through 9903.85.44, inclusive, and from Russia.”  
  
     (2)  Imports of aluminum articles from member countries of the EU
in excess of the tariff-rate quota quantities shall remain subject to
the duties imposed by clause 2 of Proclamation 9704, as amended.  The
Secretary, in consultation with the United States Trade Representative
and the Secretary of Homeland Security, shall recommend to the
President, as warranted, updates to the in-quota volumes contained in
this proclamation.  
  
     (3)  Aluminum articles from a member country of the EU imported
under an exclusion granted pursuant to clause 3 of Proclamation 9704, as
amended, shall count against the in-quota volume of the tariff-rate
quota implemented in Proclamation 10327 and extended in this
proclamation.  
  
     (4)  Aluminum articles eligible for in-quota treatment under the
tariff-rate quota implemented in Proclamation 10327 and extended in this
proclamation must be accompanied by a certificate of analysis in order
to receive such treatment.  The Secretary, in consultation with the
Secretary of Homeland Security and the United States Trade
Representative, is authorized to take such actions as are necessary to
ensure compliance with this requirement.  Failure to comply could result
in applicable remedies or penalties under United States law.  
  
     (5)  U.S. note 19(a)(v) to subchapter III of chapter 99 of the
HTSUS is amended by inserting, after the last sentence of the first
paragraph, the sentence “A Certificate of Analysis for a smelted
(unalloyed) primary aluminum used in a product imported under the above
subheadings, or such other information as may be required by U.S.
Customs and Border Protection, must be supplied by the importer in order
to make entry under this subdivision.”  
  
     (6)  The modifications made by this proclamation shall be effective
with respect to goods entered for consumption, or withdrawn from
warehouse for consumption, on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern standard time
on January 1, 2024, and shall continue in effect, unless such actions
are expressly reduced, modified, or terminated.  
  
     (7)  Any imports of aluminum articles from the member countries of
the EU that were admitted into a United States foreign trade zone in
“privileged foreign status” as defined in 19 CFR 146.41, prior to 12:01
a.m. eastern standard time on January 1, 2024, shall be subject upon
entry for consumption made on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern standard time
on January 1, 2024, to the provisions of the tariff-rate quota in effect
at the time of the entry for consumption.  
  
     (8)  Any provision of previous proclamations and Executive Orders
that is inconsistent with the actions taken in this proclamation is
superseded to the extent of such inconsistency.  
  
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-eighth
day of December, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-three, and
of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-eighth.  
 

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
