---
date: '2023-12-11'
modified_time: 2023-12-11 10:10:38-05:00
published_time: 2023-12-11 10:10:37-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/12/11/a-proclamation-on-suspension-of-entry-as-immigrants-and-nonimmigrants-of-persons-enabling-corruption/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Suspension of Entry as Immigrants and Nonimmigrants of Persons\
  \ Enabling\_Corruption"
---
 
      On June 3, 2021, through National Security Study Memorandum 1
(NSSM-1), I established the fight against global corruption as a core
national security interest, stating that corruption threatens United
States national security, economic equity, global anti-poverty and
development efforts, and democracy itself.  By effectively preventing
and countering corruption and demonstrating the advantages of
transparent and accountable governance, we can secure a critical
advantage for the United States and other democracies.  
  
     On December 6, 2021, pursuant to NSSM-1, my Administration issued
the first United States Strategy on Countering Corruption (Strategy),
which recognizes the strategic impact of corruption and directs the
modernization of our efforts to prevent and combat it.  The Strategy
also seeks to deepen global partnerships and commitment to eliminate
safe havens for corrupt actors and their criminal proceeds, including in
the United States.  
  
     The Strategy reflects the idea that corruption, including
kleptocracy, cannot thrive without a supportive network of actors who
enable and often benefit from such conduct.  Activity by these
“enablers” — who are often professional service providers — often occurs
through opaque legal structures and financial mechanisms.  This activity
can take many forms, such as supporting corrupt actors in the
performance of, benefitting from, evading responsibility for, or
laundering the proceeds of corruption.  
  
     Collaboration between corrupt public officials and their enablers
is pernicious and facilitates the spread of corruption across borders
and across sectors.  The United States therefore needs to invoke all
available legal, policy, diplomatic, economic, and financial tools to
deter those who perpetuate corruption, whether they are public officials
or private individuals.  These tools include authorities to counter
money laundering and terrorist financing, as well as targeted financial
sanctions — such as those specified in Executive Order 13818 of
December 20, 2017 (Blocking the Property of Persons Involved in Serious
Human Rights Abuse or Corruption) –- which can prevent the flow of
corrupt proceeds through United States and international financial
systems.  
  
     Other existing authorities, including Presidential Proclamation
7750 of January 12, 2004 (To Suspend Entry as Immigrants or
Nonimmigrants of Persons Engaged in or Benefiting From Corruption), and
the provision commonly included at section 7031(c) of the annual
Department of State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs
Appropriations Act (e.g., Public Law 117-328), have allowed the United
States Government to deny safe haven to certain corrupt actors by
restricting their entry into the United States.  However, additional
authority is needed to fully address the supporting networks of enablers
of corruption, including those who may seek entry into the United
States.   
  
     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by the authority vested in me by the Constitution and
the laws of the United States, including sections 212(f) and 215(a) of
the Immigration and Nationality Act, 8 U.S.C. 1182(f) and 1185(a), and
section 301 of title 3, United States Code, hereby find that the
unrestricted immigrant and nonimmigrant entry into the United States of
persons described in section 1 of this proclamation, except as provided
for in section 4 of this proclamation, would be detrimental to the
interests of the United States, and that their entry should be subject
to certain restrictions, limitations, and exceptions.  I therefore
hereby proclaim the following:  
  
     Section 1.  Suspension and Limitation on Entry.  The entry into the
United States, as immigrants or nonimmigrants, of the following persons
is hereby suspended:  
  
    (a)  Persons who have enabled, facilitated, or otherwise been
involved in significant corruption, including through the laundering of
its proceeds or obstruction of judicial or investigative processes,
among other acts; and  
  
     (b)  The immediate family members of the persons described in
subsection (a) of this section.  
       
     Sec. 2.  Authority of the Secretary of State to Identify Covered
Individuals.  Persons covered by section 1 of this proclamation shall be
identified by the Secretary of State, or the Secretary’s designee, in
the Secretary’s sole discretion, pursuant to such procedures as the
Secretary may establish.  
  
     Sec. 3.  Implementation of Suspension and Limitation on Entry.  The
Secretary of State shall implement this proclamation as it applies to
visas pursuant to such procedures as the Secretary of State, in
consultation with the Secretary of Homeland Security, may establish.
 The Secretary of Homeland Security shall implement this proclamation as
it applies to the entry of noncitizens pursuant to such procedures as
the Secretary of Homeland Security, in consultation with the Secretary
of State, may establish.  
  
     Sec. 4.  Scope of Suspension and Limitation on Entry.  Section 1 of
this proclamation shall not apply to:  
  
     (a)  any lawful permanent resident of the United States;  
  
     (b)  any individual who has been granted asylum by the United
States, any refugee who has already been admitted to the United States,
or any individual granted withholding of removal or protection under the
Convention Against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading
Treatment or Punishment, and nothing in this proclamation shall be
construed to affect any individual’s eligibility for asylum, refugee
status, withholding of removal, or protection under the Convention
Against Torture, consistent with the laws and regulations of the United
States; and  
  
     (c)  any person otherwise covered by section 1 of this
proclamation, upon determination by the Secretary of State that the
person’s entry would not be contrary to the interests of the United
States, including when the Secretary of State so determines, based on a
recommendation of the Attorney General, that the person’s entry would
further important United States law enforcement objectives.  In
exercising this responsibility, the Secretary of State shall consult the
Secretary of Homeland Security on matters related to admissibility or
inadmissibility within the authority of the Secretary of Homeland
Security.  
  
      Sec. 5.  Termination.  This proclamation shall remain in effect
until terminated by the President.  The Secretary of State shall, as
circumstances warrant, recommend whether the President should continue,
modify, or terminate this proclamation.  
  
     Sec. 6.  General Provisions.  (a)  Nothing in this proclamation
shall be construed to impair or otherwise affect:  
  
          (i)   the authority granted by law to an executive department
or agency, or the head thereof; or  
  
          (ii)  the functions of the Director of the Office of
Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or
legislative proposals.  
  
     (b)  This proclamation shall be implemented consistent with
applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.  
  
     (c)  Nothing in this proclamation shall be construed to derogate
from United States Government obligations under applicable international
agreements, or to suspend entry based solely on a noncitizen’s ideology,
opinions, or beliefs.  Nothing in this proclamation shall be construed
to limit the authority of the United States to admit or to suspend the
admission or entry of particular individuals into the United States
under the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101 *et seq*.) or
under any other provision of United States law.  
  
     (d)  This proclamation is not intended to, and does not, create any
right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in
equity by any party against the United States, its departments,
agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other
person.  
  
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this eleventh day
of December, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-three, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-eighth.  
   
 

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
