---
date: '2023-12-29'
published_time: 2023-12-29 12:16:15-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/12/29/a-proclamation-on-national-human-trafficking-prevention-month-2024/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Human Trafficking Prevention Month,\_2024"
---
 
     More than 27 million people around the world endure the abhorrent
abuse of human trafficking and forced labor, including thousands of
people right here in the United States.  It is a threat to global
security, public safety, and human dignity.  During National Human
Trafficking Prevention Month, we reaffirm our commitment to ending these
predatory crimes at home and across the globe.  
  
     In 2021, I signed an updated National Action Plan to Combat Human
Trafficking, outlining my Administration’s efforts to prevent
trafficking, prosecute perpetrators, and protect survivors.  The plan
reflects our commitment to standing up for the most vulnerable among us,
and it is a foundation for our work to ensure safe, orderly, and humane
migration.  Federal agencies are today working closely with governments
and organizations around the world to address the root causes of
trafficking, bring traffickers to justice, and support survivors as they
recover and rebuild their lives.  
  
     The plan also reflects our commitment to workers’ rights and ending
forced labor in global supply chains.  Two years ago, I signed the
bipartisan Uyghur Forced Labor Prevention Act, and we will continue
working with global leaders to make sure that American imports are
produced without forced labor and that the global economic system offers
traffickers no safe harbor.  More recently, I issued a first-ever
Presidential Memorandum elevating and integrating workers’ rights and
high labor standards into our Nation’s foreign policy priorities,
including preventing forced labor and other abuses.  
  
     The vast majority of human trafficking victims are women and girls.
 In 2022, we reauthorized the Violence Against Women Act, which I first
wrote as a United States Senator some 30 years ago — this time expanding
the jurisdiction of Tribal courts to prosecute non-Native American sex
traffickers.  The American Rescue Plan also provided tens of thousands
of housing vouchers to help people fleeing domestic violence or human
trafficking find a safe home and reclaim their lives.  As we work to
help people disproportionately affected by human trafficking, including
members of racial and ethnic minorities, women and girls, the LGBTQI+
community, and migrants, we remain committed to learning from and
partnering with survivors to support their recoveries and to recruit
their help in better spotting and preventing these too often overlooked
crimes.  
  
     There is no greater sin than the abuse of power, and human
trafficking is among the worst abuses that exist.  We must each play a
role in ending it; we cannot turn away.  This month, we urge every
American to learn how to identify the signs of trafficking and to share
the National Human Trafficking hotline (888-373-7888) — an important
resource to report a tip or to ask for help.  Together, we must make
sure every human being is free to live a life full of dignity and
respect.  
  
     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
January 2024 as National Human Trafficking Prevention Month.  I call
upon businesses, civil society organizations, communities of faith,
families, and all Americans to recognize the vital role we play in
combating human trafficking and to observe this month with appropriate
programs and activities aimed at preventing all forms of human
trafficking.  
  
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-ninth
day of December, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-three, and
of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-eighth.  
 

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
