---
date: '2023-12-04'
published_time: 2023-12-04 15:45:06-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/12/04/a-proclamation-on-the-death-of-sandra-day-oconnor/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on the Death of Sandra Day\_O\u2019Connor"
---
 
Justice Sandra Day O’Connor was an American icon, the first woman on our
Nation’s highest court.  She spent her career committed to the stable
center, pragmatic and in search of common ground.  Defined by her
no-nonsense Arizona ranch roots, Justice O’Connor overcame
discrimination early on, at a time when law firms too often told women
to seek work as secretaries, not attorneys.  She gave her life to public
service, even holding elected office, and never forgot those ties to the
people whom the law is meant to serve.  She sought to avoid ideology,
and was devoted to the rule of law and to the bedrock American principle
of an independent judiciary.  Justice O’Connor never quit striving to
make this Nation stronger, calling on us all to engage with our country
and with one another, and her institute’s work to promote civics
education and civil discourse has touched millions.  She knew that for
democracy to work, we have to listen to each other, and remember how
much more we all have in common as Americans than what keeps us apart.

As a mark of respect for the memory and longstanding service of Sandra
Day O’Connor, retired Associate Justice of the Supreme Court of the
United States, I hereby order, by the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, that on the
day of her interment, the flag of the United States shall be flown at
half‑staff at the White House and upon all public buildings and grounds,
at all military posts and naval stations, and on all naval vessels
of the Federal Government in the District of Columbia and throughout the
United States and its Territories and possessions until sunset on such
day.  I also direct that the flag shall be flown at half-staff for the
same period at all United States embassies, legations, consular offices,
and other facilities abroad, including all military facilities and naval
vessels and stations.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this fourth day of
December, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-three, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-eighth.

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
