---
date: '2023-12-05'
modified_time: 2023-12-05 16:48:28-05:00
published_time: 2023-12-05 16:11:29-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/12/05/letter-to-the-speaker-of-the-house-and-president-of-the-senate-on-an-agreement-with-the-federated-states-of-micronesia/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "Letter to the Speaker of the House and President of the Senate on an Agreement\
  \ with the Federated States of\_Micronesia"
---
 
December 5, 2023

Dear Mr. Speaker:   (Dear Madam President:)  
  
Consistent with section 101(f) of title I of the Compact of Free
Association Amendments Act of 2003 (Public Law 108-188), I transmit here
with the Agreement Concerning Procedures for the Implementation of
United States Economic Assistance Provided in the 2023 Amended Compact
Between the Government of the United States of America and the
Government of the Federated States of Micronesia, signed at Palikir on
May 23, 2023 (2023 FPA), and the 2023 Federal Programs and Services
Agreement between the Government of the United States of America and the
Government of the Federated States of Micronesia with Annexes, signed at
Washington, D.C., on September 28, 2023 (2023 FPSA).  
  
The 2023 FPA and the 2023 FPSA (Agreements) with the Federated States of
Micronesia (FSM) serve the important purpose of assisting in the FSM’s
development and maintaining our close relationship.  The 2023 FPA would
maintain oversight and accountability for United States taxpayer funds
provided to support essential government services by preserving an
oversight role for the Joint Economic Management Committee (JEMCO) and
United States Government control of the same, while giving the FSM a
greater voice on the JEMCO.  The 2023 FPA would streamline but generally
maintain the FSM’s reporting and audit requirements, while giving the
FSM more autonomy in setting budget priorities within mutually decided
upon sectors.   
  
Under the 2023 FPSA, most of the programs and services would continue as
they have over the last 20 years, with some technical updates.  The 2023
FPSA includes more substantive modifications to the provision of postal
services, disaster assistance, and Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
(FDIC) insurance.  Significant changes to postal services include giving
the United States Postal Service more flexibility to reduce the minimum
level of service it is required to provide for certain categories of
service, including commercial mail services.  Significant changes to
disaster assistance include a revision to the process for declaring
disasters and increased contributions to the Disaster Assistance
Emergency Fund, as well as changes to promote disaster preparedness. 
The FDIC agreed to expand its insurance to other eligible banks in the
FSM in addition to the already-insured Bank of the Federated States
of Micronesia.  The 2023 FPSA’s general provisions that apply to all
United States executive departments and agencies in the FSM — not just
those providing programs and services under the 2023 FPSA — would last
in perpetuity unless terminated by mutual agreement.  This ensures that
benefits for United States executive departments and agencies,
personnel, and contractors — including certain privileges and
immunities, tax exemptions, and claims and dispute settlement procedures
— would continue beyond 20 years.  
  
Extending such assistance, including Federal programs and services, is a
critical component of my Administration’s Indo-Pacific, Pacific
Partnership, and National Security Strategies.  These Agreements
demonstrate our long-term commitment to and strengthen our broader
bilateral relationship with the FSM, fostering economic prosperity and
stability that form the foundation of our strategic interests in the
Indo-Pacific region.  
  
I transmit herewith the 2023 FPA and the 2023 FPSA for the
implementation of these Agreements related to the Compact of Free
Association Between the United States and the Federated States of
Micronesia.  
  
                              Sincerely,  
  
  
                              JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR
