---
date: '2023-01-25'
modified_time: 2023-01-25 17:19:06-05:00
published_time: 2023-01-25 12:16:04-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/01/25/readout-of-roundtable-on-capital-access-for-small-businesses/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Readout of Roundtable on Capital Access for Small\_Businesses"
---
 
Yesterday, the Administrator of the Small Business Administration (SBA)
Isabel Guzmán, the Deputy Secretary of the Treasury Wally Adeyemo,
American Rescue Plan Coordinator Gene Sperling, and Deputy Director of
the National Economic Council Bharat Ramamurti were joined by U.S.
Senator John Hickenlooper (D-CO) and small business leaders, advocates,
and mission lenders with particular expertise in reaching minority small
businesses to discuss the Biden-Harris Administration’s small business
agenda to expand capital access, including newly proposed rules from the
SBA and historic investments by the Treasury Department in CDFIs. The
group included non-profit mission lender groups, Community Development
Financial Institutions (CDFIs), foundations, and advocacy groups all
seasoned in meeting the needs of historically underserved small business
owners.

Participants agreed on the importance of breaking down barriers to
capital by meeting small business owners where they are, providing
multiple paths to accessing capital, and offering support services
needed to navigate available programs to better reach underserved small
business owners. The Biden-Harris Administration is working to address
these needs in a number of ways, including through investments in the
American Rescue Plan that have helped set the stage for supporting small
businesses for years to come. SBA is proposing reforms that would make
it easier for lenders to work with SBA to offer small dollar loans,
expanding the pool of lenders and capital options for small businesses
with a focus on the historically underserved. Treasury has launched an
interagency effort to identify gaps in services for underserved
communities and made historic investments in the CDFIs that often serve
as the primary lender for minority-owned businesses.

Administrator Guzmán provided an overview of her capital access reform
agenda for the SBA. This included the proposal to lift the moratorium on
Small Business Lending Company (SBLC) licenses, proposed reforms to the
Small Business Investment Company (SBIC) Program, and proposed
streamlining and modernization of the affiliation, lending criteria, and
employee ownership requirements for the SBA’s Business Loan Programs.
The proposed SBLC rule would allow SBA to pilot this expansion of
lending activity while ensuring proper lender engagement and protection
protocols. The Administrator identified the priority for these new SBLC
licenses to focus on a diverse representation of lenders that
responsibly meet the capital needs of the smallest businesses, minority
businesses, and rural communities. In addition, later this year SBA
plans to launch significant technological improvements to its small
business borrower-lender matching tool, improving the experience and
ease of matching potential borrower and lenders.

The Deputy Secretary spoke to the historic cooperation in the
Biden-Harris Administration between agencies to support underserved
communities, especially when it comes to community investment and access
to capital. Through the Emergency Capital Investment Program, CDFI Fund,
and State Small Business Credit Initiative, Treasury has deployed
billions in funding to assist small and minority-owned businesses and
consumers. In July, Vice President Harris announced the formation of the
Interagency Community Investment Committee (ICIC), chaired by the
Treasury Department, which has since led a process to solicit input on
how agencies can better align to support underserved communities.

Senator Hickenlooper emphasized the critical nature of expanding small
business activity nationwide and highlighted the role responsibly
regulated fintechs can play in expanding access to affordable capital
for underserved small businesses while protecting the integrity of the
system.

In the meeting, participants commended the Biden-Harris Administration
on these initiatives that have improved access to capital and addressed
persistent gaps in lending. One participant raised how welcome and
necessary the proactive consideration around expanding SBLC licenses to
focus on mission-based lenders would be, and commended SBA for
prioritizing a measured expansion of licenses to ensure consumer
protections. Another leading small business advocate highlighted how the
expansion of SBLC licenses would allow for a diversification of lending
options, including mission lenders and responsible fintech options, to
fill acute capital gaps and commended the SBA’s borrower protection
principles. Multiple participants highlighted the importance of making
sure capital allocators reflect the diversity of America and its small
businesses owners. The group discussed the critical opportunity to
expand the use of technology to scale lending operations, alternative
underwriting models, and technical assistance delivery.

\###
