---
date: '2023-01-01'
modified_time: 2023-01-01 14:54:07-05:00
published_time: 2023-01-01 16:30:00-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/01/01/statement-from-president-joe-biden-on-the-160th-anniversary-of-the-emancipation-proclamation/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Statement from President Joe\_Biden on the 160th Anniversary of the Emancipation\_\
  Proclamation"
---
 
On New Year’s Day, 160 years ago today, President Abraham Lincoln
changed America’s destiny forever.  We were at the height of a raging
Civil War, “a house divided” along the dangerous fault line of slavery. 
During the one hundred days after the battle at Antietam, where more
American soldiers were lost in a single day than in any other war,
President Lincoln engaged in months of cautious deliberation.  His duty,
he felt, was to do more than what he personally believed was morally
right, but to represent the will of a fractured people.  
  
On January 1, 1863, President Lincoln finally issued the Emancipation
Proclamation, ending slavery in states that rebelled against the Union,
but preserving the institution in states that remained within the Union.
It was not a perfect solution, but it began the active pursuit of
perfection, the quest that persists to this day to realize the full
promise of democracy in America.  With the stroke of a pen, President
 Lincoln aligned the future of our Nation with the challenge of our
world, to end humanity’s war against itself, to recognize there is more
that unites us than could ever divide us, and to finally reconcile
ourselves with one another in peace.  
  
The Emancipation Proclamation became an inspiration to thousands of
Americans who celebrated all across the Nation that New Year’s Day long
into the night.  Afterwards, every Union victory became a greater sign
that justice could conquer injustice, that freedom would triumph over
bondage, and that the battle cry of our Nation was freedom and justice
for all.  
  
On this New Year’s Day, let us add our voices to those of the ages, to
celebrate the unity that is the sacred mission of our Nation.   Let us
rejoice that freedom is our goal, and let us set aside our differences,
break through bitter and divisive partisanship, our finger pointing and
blame, and rise up to meet our great calling as a Nation.  Let us do all
we can in 2023 to create “a new birth of freedom” in the United States
and ensure that “government of the people, by the people and for the
people, shall not perish,” but will shine like a sun, a beacon to all
people, demonstrating that from the many our great Nation can become
one.

\###
