---
date: '2023-01-26'
modified_time: 2023-01-26 13:20:31-05:00
published_time: 2023-01-26 19:00:00-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/01/26/statement-from-president-joe-biden-on-international-holocaust-remembrance-day/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Statement from President Joe\_Biden on International Holocaust Remembrance\_\
  Day"
---
 
Tomorrow, Jill and I will pause to mourn the six million Jews who were
systematically and savagely murdered by the Nazis and their
collaborators during the Holocaust — and to grieve the Roma and Sinti,
Slavs, people with disabilities, LGBTQ+ individuals, and political
dissidents who were also killed. As we join nations around the world in
bearing witness to this dark chapter in our shared history, we also
honor survivors and their stories—pledging to always remember, and to
keep faith with that sacred vow: “never again.”

“Never again” was a promise my father first instilled in me at our
family dinner table, educating me and my siblings about the horrors of
the Shoah. It’s a lesson I’ve passed on to my own children and
grandchildren by taking them to Dachau to understand for themselves the
depths of this evil—and the complicity of those who knew what was
happening, yet said nothing. Seeing neo-Nazis and white nationalists
march from the shadows in Charlottesville in 2017, spewing the same
antisemitic bile we heard in the 1930s in Europe, drove me to run for
president.

Sadly, we have seen over and over again that hate never goes away. It
only hides—waiting to reemerge whenever it is given just a little bit of
oxygen. And today, across our country, we are seeing swastikas on cars,
antisemitic banners on bridges, verbal and physical attacks against
Jewish businesses and Jewish Americans – even Holocaust denialism. It’s
vile. It goes against everything we value as Americans. And each of us
must speak out against this poison. Together, we must affirm, over and
over, that hate has no safe harbor in America. 

That is exactly what my Administration is doing. Working with partners
around the country, we held a historic White House Summit on combating
hate-fueled violence. We appointed the first Ambassador-level Special
Envoy to Monitor and Combat Antisemitism. We are developing a national
strategy to fight antisemitism. We’ve secured the largest increase in
funding ever for the physical security of non-profits—including
synagogues and Jewish Community Centers. We continue to support
Holocaust survivors to ensure they can live the rest of their lives with
dignity and security. And to mark this day of remembrance, the Second
Gentleman of the United States, Douglas Emhoff, is participating in a
commemoration ceremony at the Auschwitz-Birkenau concentration camp in
Poland, and will be visiting Berlin, Germany to coordinate international
efforts to combat antisemitism.

On International Holocaust Remembrance Day and every day, the United
States stands with Holocaust victims, their families, and their
descendants. We remember. We honor their stories. We will face down the
hate and the lies that carry in them the terrifying echoes of one of the
worst chapters in human history. And for generations to come, we will
continue to defend our foundational values as a nation—freedom,
equality, and dignity for all human beings.

\###
