---
date: '2023-01-10'
published_time: 2023-01-10 21:41:32-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/01/10/declaration-of-north-america-dna/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Declaration of North America\_(DNA)"
---
 
Today, President Andrés Manuel López Obrador, President Joseph R. Biden,
and Prime Minister Justin Trudeau met in Mexico City for the 10th North
American Leaders’ Summit (NALS). The leaders are determined to fortify
our region’s security, prosperity, sustainability and inclusiveness
through commitments across six pillars: 1) diversity, equity, and
inclusion; 2) climate change and the environment; 3) competitiveness; 4)
migration and development; 5) health; and 6) regional security.

North America shares a unique history and culture that emphasizes
innovation, equitable development, and mutually beneficial trade to
create inclusive economic opportunities for the benefit of our people.
We are not just neighbors and partners. Our people share bonds of family
and friendship and value – above all else – freedom, justice, human
rights, equality, and democracy. This is the North American DNA.

**Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion**

Diversity, equity, and inclusion is foundational to the strength,
vibrancy, and resilience of our countries. We focus on providing
marginalized communities opportunities for their full, equal, and
meaningful participation in our democracies and economies. To advance
these objectives, President López Obrador, President Biden, and Prime
Minister Trudeau reiterated their joint commitment to protect civil
rights, promote racial justice, expand protections for LGBTQI+
individuals and deliver more equitable outcomes to all.

In partnership with Indigenous Peoples, we will promote innovative and
sustainable solutions that honor traditional knowledge, foster
Indigenous-led growth and drive job creation. We will continue our
cooperation to build societies where Indigenous women and girls can
live, learn, and lead without fear through the Trilateral Working Group
on Violence Against Indigenous Women and Girls. Indigenous women from
all three countries will convene in the coming weeks to facilitate
discussions about priorities and best practices including in areas of
political, economic, and social development. The three countries also
reaffirm our commitment to gender equality and empowerment of women and
girls, in all their diversity by aiming to improve financial and
political support for women’s and girl’s rights.

**Climate Change and Environment**

Mexico, the United States, and Canada recognize the critical nature of
taking rapid and coordinated measures to tackle the climate crisis and
respond to its consequences. This includes achieving our respective 2030
nationally determined contributions under the Paris Agreement, and
working together and with other countries to keep a 1.5-degree C
temperature limit within reach. To promote buy-in for ambitious cuts to
emissions, we will come together to align approaches on estimating the
social cost of greenhouse gas emissions.

We will continue to implement and build on commitments from the 2021
North American Leaders’ Summit on climate mitigation, adaptation, and
resilience, while renewing our focus on reducing methane emissions from
all sources, with a new focus on waste methane. We will explore
standards to develop hydrogen as a regional source of clean energy. We
will move swiftly to accelerate the energy transition by deploying clean
energy solutions, increasing the production and adoption of
zero-emission vehicles in North America and transitioning to cleaner
fuels. In partnership with Indigenous Peoples, we reiterate our pledge
to protect biodiversity, to work toward ending deforestation, and doing
our part to conserve 30 percent of the world’s land and waters by 2030.

**Competitiveness**

We seek to deepen our regional capacity to attract high quality
investment, spur innovation, and strengthen the resilience of our
economies, recognizing the benefits brought by the United
States-Mexico-Canada Agreement. To boost regional competitiveness, the
three countries will seek to forge stronger regional supply chains, as
well as promote targeted investment, in key industries of the future
such as semiconductors and electric vehicle batteries, which will be
critical to advance electric vehicle development and infrastructure. We
will convene public-private dialogues and map out supply chains to
address common challenges and opportunities.

Critical minerals are an essential component to accelerating North
America’s clean energy transition. Each country will review and map out
existing and potential reserves of critical mineral resources in the
region, while taking care of the environment, respecting local
communities, and adhering to high ethical standards.

To support innovation, job creation, and workforce development, the
three governments commit to working with the private sector, civil
society, labor and academia across North America to foster high-tech
entrepreneurship, promote small and medium-sized enterprises, and
strengthen technical education. We will also consider trilateral
approaches to promote sustainable, inclusive jobs and develop the
workforce to meet our climate commitments.

**Migration and Development**

Today marks the six-month anniversary of the Los Angeles Declaration on
Migration and Protection, a bold new framework for regional
responsibility-sharing that 21 leaders endorsed on the margins of the
Ninth Summit of the Americas. The three countries of North America each
made ambitious commitments under the Los Angeles Declaration, including
working together to advance labor mobility in North America,
particularly regarding regular pathways, and have been delivering on
these commitments.

Since June, Mexico, the United States and Canada have collectively
welcomed record numbers of migrants and refugees from the Western
Hemisphere under new and expanded labor and humanitarian programs.
Today, we affirm our joint commitment to safe, orderly, and humane
migration under the Los Angeles Declaration and other relevant
multilateral frameworks. This includes assisting host communities and
promoting migrant and refugee integration; providing protection to
refugees, asylum seekers, and vulnerable migrants; strengthening asylum
capacity in the region; expanding and promoting regular pathways for
migration and protection; addressing the root causes and impacts of
irregular migration and forced displacement; and collaborating to
counter xenophobia and discrimination against migrants and refugees.

Now more than ever, we need to identify and address the root causes of
irregular migration and forced displacement. Mexico, the United States,
and Canada commit to supporting countries across the Western Hemisphere
to create the conditions to improve quality of life, especially in
marginalized communities that are vulnerable to both forced internal and
regional migration and displacement. To that end, we will continue to
work together and with our respective private sectors to promote
responsible business practices, implement obligations under the USMCA
and international labor conventions, and cooperate to eradicate the use
of forced and child labor in our supply chains.

**Health**

Trilateral health cooperation will focus on launching an updated North
American Plan for Animal and Pandemic Influenza (NAPAPI) to improve
prevention, preparedness, agility, and to provide rapid response to
health emergencies in North America. The North American Health Security
Working Group will develop and launch a new, revised NAPAPI as a
flexible, scalable, and cross-sectoral platform to strengthen regional
prevention, preparedness and response to a broader range of health
security threats that include influenza and beyond. As we emerge from
the acute phase of the COVID-19 pandemic, we also recognize that
resilient health systems, including a strong health workforce, are the
foundation upon which effective pandemic preparedness and response will
be built. We will continue efforts to build stronger and more resilient
health systems that meet the broad range of health needs in our
countries.

**Regional Security**

Mexico, the United States, and Canada will focus on strategies to
bolster our shared continental security against domestic, regional, and
global threats, including cyber threats. Security cooperation will
continue to abide by our common understanding that respect for human
rights and the rule of law contribute to a more secure North America.
Our security cooperation includes actions to disrupt criminal actors and
associated crimes across our shared borders, including money laundering,
child sexual exploitation, firearms and human trafficking. We also are
taking a consistent approach to the collection, use, processing,
retention, and protection of Passenger Name Record (PNR) data to
strengthen our shared security perimeter and the safety of our citizens,
including advocating for the global adoption of standards and
recommended practices of the International Civil Aviation Organization
on PNR data.

We will continue our North American Drug Dialogue and further advance
our cooperative international efforts to address the growing global
synthetic drug threat as the United States takes the chair in 2023. We
will enhance trilateral work to address the use of precursor chemicals
in the production of illegal substances in North America and to disrupt
drug trafficking, as well as strengthen public health approaches to
prevention, harm reduction, treatment, and recovery.

As both natural and human-induced hazards and disasters increase risks
to vulnerable populations, we will continue to work together to share
training and best practices to keep our people safe and address
emergencies including natural and other disasters. Recognizing the
differentiated impact disasters have on women and girls, we aim to
integrate a gender perspective in these efforts.

**Looking forward**

The commitments made during this summit are rooted in a shared vision
for a more equitable, just, inclusive, resilient, secure, and prosperous
North America and a shared responsibility to achieve more equitable
outcomes responsive to the needs and aspirations of our citizens. As we
work to implement these commitments in the upcoming year, we seek to
model a democratic and sustainable path based on trust to promote
inclusive prosperity and security. Mexico, the United States, and Canada
look forward to building on this progress at the eleventh NALS (NALS
XI), to be hosted by Canada.

\###
