---
date: '2023-01-02'
published_time: 2023-01-02 19:19:01-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/01/02/icymi-president-vice-president-senior-administration-officials-to-kick-off-2023-highlighting-impact-of-presidents-economic-plan-including-bipartisan-infrastructure-law/
tags: statements-releases
title: "ICYMI:\_President, Vice President, Senior Administration Officials To Kick\
  \ Off 2023 Highlighting Impact of President\u2019s Economic Plan, Including Bipartisan\
  \ Infrastructure\_Law"
---
 
To kick off 2023, the President, Vice President, and Senior
Administration Officials will blanket the country to highlight how the
President’s economic plan – including his success bringing Republicans,
Independents, and Democrats together to pass the Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law – is growing our economy from the bottom up and
middle out.   
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">On Wednesday, January
4th</span>, President Biden will visit the Greater Cincinnati area on
the Kentucky side, and he will be joined by Senate Minority Leader Mitch
McConnell, Senator Sherrod Brown, Governor Andy Beshear, and Governor
Mike DeWine. Vice President Harris will visit Chicago, Illinois and
Secretary of Transportation Buttigieg will visit New London,
Connecticut.  <span style="text-decoration: underline">On Thursday,
January 5th</span>, Speaker Nancy Pelosi will join White House
Infrastructure Coordinator Mitch Landrieu during his visit to San
Francisco.  
  
The President, Vice President, and Senior Administration Officials will
discuss how the President’s economic plan is rebuilding our
infrastructure, creating good-paying jobs – jobs that don’t require a
four-year degree, and revitalizing communities that have been left
behind.

**Reuters: **[**Biden to promote U.S. infrastructure spending in
bipartisan Kentucky
visit**](https://www.reuters.com/world/us/biden-promote-us-infrastructure-spending-bipartisan-kentucky-visit-2023-01-02/)  
\[David Shepardson, 1/1/23\]  
  
Democratic U.S. President Joe Biden will join Republican Senate Minority
Leader Mitch McConnell in a Wednesday event in Kentucky aimed at
highlighting the effects of the $1 trillion 2021 infrastructure bill, a
White House official said Sunday.  
  
**Associated Press: **[**Biden’s new year pitch focuses on benefits of
bipartisanship**](https://apnews.com/article/biden-new-year-pitch-bipartisanship-fa34cf2386e48332d1e76cf7a170a1bb)  
\[Darlene Superville, 1/1/23\]  
  
In Chicago on Wednesday, Vice President Kamala Harris will discuss “how
the President’s economic plan is rebuilding our infrastructure, creating
good-paying jobs – jobs that don’t require a four-year degree, and
revitalizing communities left behind,” the White House said in its
announcement.  
  
Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg was delivering the same message
in New London, Connecticut, also on Wednesday. Mitch Landrieu, the White
House official tasked with promoting infrastructure spending, will join
soon-to-be former House Speaker Nancy Pelosi on Thursday in San
Francisco, which she represents in Congress.  
  
**Washington Times: **[**Strange bedfellows: Biden, McConnell joining
forces to tout
infrastructure **](https://www.washingtontimes.com/news/2023/jan/2/biden-mcconnell-tout-infrastructure-joint-appearan/)  
\[Joseph Clark, 1/2/23\]  
  
President Biden will be joined Wednesday in a rare bipartisan appearance
with Senate Republican leader Mitch McConnell in Kentucky, where the
president is expected to tout his $1.2 trillion infrastructure law and
broader economic plan.  
  
**NBC News: **[**Biden to laud economic wins with McConnell as GOP takes
over
House**](https://www.nbcnews.com/meet-the-press/meetthepressblog/biden-laud-economic-wins-gop-takes-house-rcna63866)  
\[Mike Memoli, 1/1/23\]

The stop, and others like it this week featuring other administration
officials across the country, will come a day after the new
Republican-led House of Representatives takes power in Washington, kick
off a period of divided government \[…\]  
  
**Chicago Sun Times: **[**Vice President Kamala Harris comes to Chicago
on Wednesday to tout Biden administration
accomplishments**](https://chicago.suntimes.com/politics/2023/1/1/23534219/vice-president-kamala-harris-chicago-biden-politics)  
\[Lynn Sweet, 01/1/23\]  
  
Vice President Kamala Harris visits Chicago on Wednesday, as President
Joe Biden and other top administration officials travel across the
nation to tout a series of major White House accomplishments, a White
House official said Sunday.  
  
**The Day: **[**Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg to visit New
London this
week**](https://www.theday.com/local-news/20230101/transportation-secretary-pete-buttigieg-to-visit-new-london-this-week/)  
\[Eric Moser, 1/1/23\]  
  
U.S. Secretary of Transportation Pete Buttigieg will visit New London on
Wednesday \[…\]   
  
It’s one of a few visits from the Biden Administration throughout the
country Wednesday, to highlight the impacts of the Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law that Biden signed in November 2021, also known as the
Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act.  
  
**The Cincinnati Enquirer:** [**Biden will be in NKY on Wednesday. Visit
follows bridge funding
announcement**](https://www.cincinnati.com/story/news/2023/01/01/white-house-president-biden-will-visit-nky-on-wednesday/69769200007/)  
\[Quinlan Bentley, 1/1/23\]  
  
The trip is part of a nationwide campaign by the Biden administration to
talk about the president’s economic plan, which includes the
administration’s work to pass the 2021 bipartisan Infrastructure
Investment and Jobs Act.  
  
**CNN:** [**Biden will promote bipartisanship as he returns to a changed
Washington**](https://us.cnn.com/2023/01/01/politics/biden-mcconnell-infrastructure-kentucky-trip/index.html)  
\[Kevin Liptak, 1/1/23\]  
  
Wednesday’s event in Kentucky, which will include Republican Senate
Minority Leader Mitch McConnell, is meant to underscore the importance
of the massive public works package Biden signed into law in 2021.  
  
**The Hill: **[**Biden To Tout Infrastructure Investments Alongside
McConnell On
Wednesday**](https://thehill.com/homenews/administration/3794883-biden-to-tout-infrastructure-investments-alongside-mcconnell-on-wednesday/)  
\[Brett Samuels, 1/1/23\]  
  
Biden’s first two years in office saw the passage of bipartisan
legislation focused on infrastructure, semiconductor chip manufacturing,
assistance for veterans and protections for same-sex marriage.

\###
