---
date: '2023-01-31'
published_time: 2023-01-31 19:59:23-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/01/31/readout-of-white-house-meeting-on-efforts-to-combat-cervical-cancer/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Readout of White\_House Meeting on Efforts to Combat Cervical\_Cancer"
---
 
Today, Jennifer Klein, Assistant to the President and Director of the
Gender Policy Council, and Danielle Carnival, Coordinator of the White
House Cancer Moonshot, were joined by medical experts, researchers, and
patient advocates to discuss opportunities and challenges in combatting
cervical cancer through immunizations, screening, and treatment and to
mark Cervical Health Awareness Month. Participants included cervical
cancer survivors, primary care physicians, specialists, and
representatives from the National Cancer Institute. White House staff
from the Office of the First Lady, the Office of Science and Technology
Policy, and the Domestic Policy Council also participated.

Participants discussed the need to expand access to immunizations,
increase cervical cancer screening rates, and close disparities in
screening and treatment—both nationally and around the world. Doing so
is especially critical to address lower screening rates and higher
cancer mortality among people of color and individuals who are
low-income or living in rural areas—all of whom experience
disproportionately high cervical cancer mortality—as well as LGBTQI+
people, for whom cancer mortality data are not systematically collected.
Recommendations included strengthening the health care workforce,
improving screening tests, and raising awareness about cervical
cancer-related vaccination and screening. Participants also underscored
the impact that vaccines have had in reducing the incidence of cervical
cancer, the importance of innovation in solving women’s health
challenges, and the need for continued investments in cervical cancer
research.

The Biden-Harris Administration is working to address these challenges
in a number of ways. Nearly one year ago, the President and First Lady
reignited the Cancer Moonshot, setting ambitious goals to half the death
rate from cancer and to improve the lives of people living with and
surviving cancer. The President and First Lady Jill Biden called on
stakeholders to ensure equitable access to the tools we have to prevent,
detect, and diagnose cancer—including at-home and mobile screening
options for cervical cancer. As part of the Cancer Moonshot, the
Department of Health and Human Services committed to accelerating
efforts to reduce cervical cancer through screening and vaccination,
especially for those most at risk.

The Administration has also expanded access to affordable, high-quality
health insurance that covers a comprehensive set of preventive services,
including immunizations and cervical cancer screening, under the
Affordable Care Act. More Americans than ever before have signed up for
health insurance through the Affordable Care Act thanks to lower rates
originally delivered as part of the American Rescue Plan Act and that
were extended by the Inflation Reduction Act. In the meeting,
participants commended the Biden-Harris Administration on their efforts
to help combat cervical cancer and increase access to prevention and
screening.

\###
