---
date: '2023-01-26'
modified_time: 2023-01-26 10:19:37-05:00
published_time: 2023-01-26 15:00:00-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/01/26/president-biden-announces-key-appointments-to-boards-and-commissions-17/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Announces Key Appointments to Boards and\_Commissions"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Biden announced his intent to appoint the
following individuals to serve in key roles:

-   Jill Nash, Member, J. William Fulbright Foreign Scholarship Board
-   Teri Hawks Goodmann, Chair, National Capital Planning Commission
-   Margaret A. Hamburg, Vice Chair, President’s Intelligence Advisory
    Board
-   Kim Cobb, Member, President’s Intelligence Advisory Board
-   Kneeland Conner Youngblood, Member, President’s Intelligence
    Advisory Board

**<u>J. William Fulbright Foreign Scholarship Board</u>**

The J. William Fulbright Foreign Scholarship Board supervises the
Fulbright Program and certain programs authorized by the Fulbright-Hays
Act and for the purpose of selecting students, scholars, teachers,
trainees, and other persons to participate in the educational exchange
programs. Appointed by the President, the 12-member Board meets
quarterly in Washington, DC. The Board establishes worldwide policies
and procedures for the Program and issues an annual report on the state
of the Program.

**Jill Nash, Member, J. William Fulbright Foreign Scholarship Board**

Jill Nash is a senior public affairs and corporate communications
executive who has developed and led global teams for a number of
innovative consumer and technology brands, including The Charles Schwab
Corp., Gap Inc., and Yahoo Inc. She has a successful track record
helping organizations navigate periods of crisis, growth, and cultural
transformation. More recently, she co-founded Women for Biden-Harris
digital, enlisting a team of more than 350 volunteers that built a
digital community of more than 800,000 women across social media
platforms and geographies.

In addition to her professional work, Nash has also helped guide major
philanthropies as both a board member and volunteer. As a part of this
work, she has been an active mentor, championing young professionals
while also creating opportunities for them to develop their strengths
and leadership skills in both the public and private sectors. She
currently serves on the Board of Trustees of the Women’s Sports
Foundation and Emerge California, a premiere candidate training program.
She’s also a member of the International Women’s Forum and is a past
board member of water.org, GLAAD, and the San Francisco SPCA. She has
received numerous professional honors and holds a bachelor’s degree in
journalism from San Diego State University.

**<u>National Capital Planning Commission</u>**

Established by Congress in 1924, the National Capital Planning
Commission is the federal government’s central planning agency for the
National Capital Region. Through planning, policymaking, and project
review, the National Capital Planning Commission protects and advances
the federal government’s interest in the region’s development. The
Commission provides overall planning guidance for federal land and
buildings in the region by reviewing the design of federal and certain
local projects, overseeing long-range planning for future development,
and monitoring capital investment by federal agencies. The 12-member
Commission represents federal and local constituencies with a stake in
planning for the nation’s capital.

**Teri Hawks Goodmann, Chair, National Capital Planning Commission**

Teri Hawks Goodmann, a lifelong Iowan, serves as the Director of
Strategic Partnerships for the City of Dubuque, Iowa. She served as
Assistant City Manager for Dubuque from 2012 to 2020. Prior to joining
the City of Dubuque, Goodmann served from 1994 to 2012 as a Lead
Developer of the National Mississippi River Museum & Aquarium, a
Smithsonian Affiliate, the largest cultural and environmental
interpretive center for the Mississippi and the Rivers of America in the
United States. Goodmann’s experience includes city and regional
planning, environmental restoration, economic development, historic
preservation, cultural resource development, fund development, and
government advocacy at the state and federal level. Community
development and enhancement with a focus on equity, sustainability, and
resilience is a priority for Goodmann.

Goodmann’s Iowa Gubernatorial appointments have included the State
Historical Society Board of Trustees, Vertical Infrastructure Advisory
Committee, Smart Growth Planning Task Force, and the Norman Borlaug
Congressional Statue Committee. Additionally, Goodmann was appointed to
the EPA’s Local Government Advisory Commission, advising the
administrator on critical environmental issues impacting local
governments. She currently serves on the Dubuque County Historical
Society Board of Directors and the National Waterways Foundation Board,
and is a founding member of Mississippi River Cities and Towns
Initiative and America’s Watershed Initiative. Goodmann has a Bachelor
of Arts in History from Clarke University, in Dubuque, where she also
attended the Institute for American Universities in Aix-en-Provence,
France for a focus on language and history.

**<u>President’s Intelligence Advisory Board</u>**

The President’s Intelligence Advisory Board is an independent element
within the Executive Office of the President. The President’s
Intelligence Advisory Board exists exclusively to assist the President
by providing the President with an independent source of advice on the
effectiveness with which the Intelligence Community is meeting the
nation’s intelligence needs and the vigor and insight with which the
community plans for the future. The President is able to appoint up to
16 members of the Board.

**Margaret A. Hamburg, Vice Chair, President’s Intelligence Advisory
Board**

Dr. Margaret Hamburg is an internationally recognized leader in public
health, medicine, and science, perhaps best known for her expertise on
biological threats and biomedical research and innovation. She currently
serves as Co-President of the InterAcademy Partnership, an international
consortium of national academies of science and medicine working to
advance the role of science in evidence-based policy decisions and the
search for solutions to the world’s most challenging problems.
Previously, Hamburg has served in numerous leadership roles including:
Commissioner of the Food and Drug Administration, Assistant Secretary
for Planning and Evaluation at the U.S. Department of Health and Human
Services, New York City Health Commissioner, and Assistant Director of
the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases. She also
served as the Foreign Secretary of the National Academy of Medicine,
Vice President and Senior Scientist at the Nuclear Threat Initiative,
and President/Chair of the American Association for the Advancement of
Science.

Hamburg sits on a range of boards and advisory committees, including
Alnylam Pharmaceuticals, The Nuclear Threat Initiative, The Council on
Foreign Relations, The Commonwealth Fund, The Urban Institute, The
Nature Conservancy, The Lasker Foundation, Ending Pandemics, and Resolve
to Save Lives. She recently chaired the Commonwealth Commission on a
National Public Health System, as well as the WHO Expert Group on Human
Genome Editing and Global Governance. She currently serves on the U.S.
Department of State’s Foreign Affairs Policy Board. Hamburg is widely
published and has received numerous awards and honorary degrees. Hamburg
is a graduate of Harvard College and Harvard Medical School and is
board-certified in Internal Medicine. 

**Kim Cobb, Member, President’s Intelligence Advisory Board**

Kim Cobb is the Director of the Institute at Brown for Environment and
Society, Professor in Environment and Society, and Professor in Earth,
Environmental, and Planetary Sciences at Brown University. As a climate
scientist, she uses observations of past and present climate to advance
our understanding of future climate change impacts, with a focus on
climate extremes and coastal flooding. She received her B.A. from Yale
University in 1996 and her Ph.D. in Oceanography from the Scripps
Institute of Oceanography in 2002. Prior to joining Brown in 2022, she
served as Director of the Global Change Program at Georgia Tech,
Professor in the School of Earth and Atmospheric Sciences, and ADVANCE
Professor for Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion. In her research, Cobb
has sailed on oceanographic cruises to the remote central Pacific and
led caving expeditions in the Borneo rainforests.

She received a National Science Foundation CAREER Award, a Presidential
Early Career Award for Scientists and Engineers, and the Hans Oeschger
Medal from the European Geosciences Union in 2019. She was elected as an
American Academy of Arts and Sciences Fellow in 2021 and was a Lead
Author for the IPCC Sixth Assessment Report, released in 2021. As a
mother to four, Cobb is a strong advocate for women in science, and
champions diversity and inclusion in all that she does. She is also
devoted to the communication of climate change to the public through
media appearances, public speaking, and social media channels, and
enjoys frequent exchanges with policymakers about climate impacts and
solutions.

**Kneeland Conner Youngblood, Member, President’s Intelligence Advisory
Board**

Kneeland Conner Youngblood is Founding Partner, Chairman, and CEO of
Pharos Capital Group, a healthcare-focused private equity firm.
Youngblood currently serves as Lead Director of Light & Wonder, Inc., a
New York Stock Exchange company. He is also on the Board of the
California Institute of Technology and the Milken Institute. He has and
currently serves on numerous public, private, and not for profit boards
including American Beacon Advisors, Inc. (a subsidiary of American
Airlines), where he previously chaired the Board, Starwood Hotels and
Lodging, Gap Inc., and Burger King Corporation. He previously served as
a gubernatorial and a presidential appointee with Senate confirmation.
Youngblood is a member of the Council on Foreign Relations and graduated
from Princeton University with an A.B in Politics/Science in Human
Affairs and earned his M.D. from the University of Texas, Southwestern
Medical School.

\###
