---
date: '2023-01-13'
modified_time: 2023-01-13 16:37:08-05:00
published_time: 2023-01-13 15:00:00-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/01/13/president-biden-announces-key-appointments-to-boards-and-commissions-16/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Announces Key Appointments to Boards and\_Commissions"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Biden announced his intent to appoint the
following individuals to serve in key roles:

-   Deborah Loewenberg Ball, Member, National Science Board
-   Vicki L. Chandler, Member, National Science Board
-   Dorota A. Grejner-Brzezinska, Member, National Science Board
-   Marvi Ann Matos Rodriguez, Member, National Science Board
-   Keivan G. Stassun, Member, National Science Board
-   Merlin Theodore, Member, National Science Board
-   Wanda Elaine Ward, Member, National Science Board
-   Bevlee A. Watford, Member, National Science Board

**<u>National Science Board</u>**

The National Science Foundation Act of 1950, which created the NSF,
states that “The Foundation shall consist of a National Science Board …
and a Director.” Jointly the Board and the Director pursue the goals and
function of the NSF, including the duty to “recommend and encourage the
pursuit of national policies for the promotion of research and education
in science and engineering.”

In addition, the National Science Board has two important roles. First,
it establishes the policies of NSF within the framework of applicable
national policies set forth by the President and the Congress. In this
capacity, the Board identifies issues that are critical to NSF’s future,
approves NSF’s strategic budget directions and the annual budget
submission to the Office of Management and Budget, and approves new
major programs and awards. The second role of the Board is to serve as
an independent body of advisors to both the President and the Congress
on policy matters related to science and engineering and education in
science and engineering. In addition to major reports, the NSB also
publishes occasional policy papers or statements on issues of importance
to U.S. science and engineering. The NSB is made up of 25 Members
appointed by the President. The NSF Director is an ex officio Member.
Members serve six-year terms.

**Deborah Loewenberg Ball, Member, National Science Board**

Deborah Loewenberg Ball is the William H. Payne Collegiate Professor of
education at the University of Michigan, an Arthur F. Thurnau Professor,
a research professor in the Institute for Social Research, and the
director of TeachingWorks. She taught elementary school for more than 15
years and continues to teach children every summer. Ball’s research
focuses on the practice of teaching, using elementary mathematics as a
critical context for investigating the challenges of helping children
develop understanding and agency and to work collectively, and on
leveraging the power of teaching to disrupt patterns of racism,
marginalization, and inequity. Ball is an expert on the demands of
teaching and the imperatives for teachers’ professional education. Ball
has authored more than 200 articles and chapters and has lectured and
made major presentations around the world. She has also developed
distinctive collections of video records of practice that are broadly
used to make teaching practice visible. Her research has been recognized
with several awards and honors, and she has served on national and
international commissions and panels focused on the improvement of
education. She served as President of the American Educational Research
Association from 2017 to 2018 and as Dean of the University of Michigan
School of Education from 2005 to 2016. She has been elected to the
American Academy of Arts and Sciences and the National Academy of
Education, and is a fellow of the American Mathematical Society and the
American Educational Research Association.

**Vicki L. Chandler, Member, National Science Board**

Vicki Chandler is Provost at Minerva University. She was a postdoctoral
fellow at Stanford University, received a Ph.D. from the University of
California San Francisco, and a B.A. from the University of California
Berkeley. She has conducted pioneering research on the control of gene
expression in plants and animals, receiving numerous awards including
Presidential Young Investigator, Searle Scholar, the NSF Faculty Award
for Women Scientists and Engineers and the NIH Director’s Pioneer Award.
Chandler is an elected member of the National Academy of Sciences, the
American Philosophical Society and a Fellow of the American Association
Advancement of Science. Prior to Minerva, Chandler served as the Chief
Program Officer for Science at the Gordon and Betty Moore Foundation,
while previously teaching and running research programs at the
University of Oregon and the University of Arizona. She has served
extensively on national advisory boards and panels. She served on the
NSF Biological Directorate Advisory Committee from 2001-2004, the NRC
Committee on Defining and Advancing the Conceptual Basis of Biological
Science, was elected to the governing council of NAS in 2007, and serves
on the Board of Science Education for the National Academies. She has
chaired or co-chaired Keystone, FASEB, and Gordon Research Conferences,
and served GRC as an elected council member and board of trustees member
and chair. She has served on the Board of Directors and as President of
the Genetics Society and as President of the American Society of Plant
Biologists

**Dorota A. Grejner-Brzezinska, Member, National Science Board**

Dr. Dorota A. Grejner-Brzezinska is a Distinguished University
Professor, Lowber B. Strange Endowed Chair and Professor in the
Department of Civil, Environmental and Geodetic Engineering at The Ohio
State University (OSU), where she serves as Vice President for the
Knowledge Enterprise. She is also a co-Director of the Satellite
Positioning and Inertial Navigation Laboratory. Her research interests
cover Global Navigation Satellite Systems (GNSS) algorithms and
applications, GNSS and other sensor integration for navigation in
GNSS-challenged environments, sensors and algorithms for collaborative
navigation, and image-based navigation with Artificial Intelligence.

Brzezinska is a member of the National Academy of Engineering, Fellow of
the Institute of Navigation (ION), Fellow of the Royal Institute of
Navigation, Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of
Science, and the recipient of the 2016 ION Johannes Kepler Award, the
2005 ION Thomas Thurlow Award, the 2005 and 2015 US Geospatial
Information Foundation Academic Research Award, and the 2018
International Association of the Institutes of Navigation John Harrison
Award. She has served as the ION President, and President of the
International Association of Geodesy Commission 4, Positioning and
Applications, and is an IAG Fellow. Brzezinska serves as Principal
Investigator for the NSF Engineering Research Visioning Alliance and is
a member of the National Space-Based Positioning, Navigation, and Timing
Advisory Board, and served on the U.S. President’s Council of Advisors
on Science and Technology. Brzezinska holds an M.S. and a Ph.D. in
Geodetic Science from OSU, and an M.S. in Surveying Engineering and Land
Management Systems from the University of Warmia and Mazury, Poland.

**Marvi Ann Matos Rodriguez, Member, National Science Board**

Dr. Marvi Matos Rodriguez works as Director of Engineering at the Boeing
Company. Matos Rodriguez completed her BS in Chemical Engineering at the
University of Puerto Rico, a PhD in Chemical Engineering and a MS in
Colloids, Polymers and Surfaces at Carnegie Mellon University and in
2023 Matos Rodriguez plans to complete an executive MBA at the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology. She worked as postdoc at the
National Institute of Standards and Technology under a fellowship from
the National Research Council. She served as Lecturer in Chemical
Engineering and later as a Senior Research Scientist in Bioengineering
at the University of Washington. She also worked as an independent
consultant in the field of engineering innovations prior to joining
aerospace. Matos Rodriguez transitioned to Boeing as Scientist and
Engineer. At Boeing she has served as Thin Films research team lead, as
Manufacturing Engineering manager, as Research and Technology manager
and as director of Chemical Technologies, Metals and Ceramics. Matos
Rodriguez worked at Blue Origin, where she led the newly formed
Materials and Processes group and later served as director for the Crew
Capsule team in the New Shepard Program and as the director for
Mechanical Engineering leading structures, mechanical systems, fluids
systems, technical design and materials and processes. In her capacity
as scientist and leader, Matos Rodriguez has led the development of
novel super alloys, thermal protection systems, and advanced
manufacturing technologies and has supported rocket launches and rocket
engine qualification work. Matos Rodriguez is a servant leader, focused
on Innovation and Outreach.

**Keivan G. Stassun, Member, National Science Board**

Keivan Stassun holds the Stevenson chair in Physics & Astronomy at
Vanderbilt University, where he was previously the recipient of an NSF
CAREER award, a Cottrell Scholar award from the Research Corporation for
Science Advancement, and a Ford Foundation Diversity Fellowship from the
National Academies. Stassun is a co-investigator for NASA’s Transiting
Exoplanet Survey Satellite mission, chairs the executive committee of
the Sloan Digital Sky Survey, and recently served on the National
Academy of Science’s Decadal Steering Committee for Astronomy &
Astrophysics. An elected Fellow of the American Physical Society, the
American Astronomical Society, and the American Association for the
Advancement of Science, his research on stars and exoplanets has
appeared in more than 500 peer-reviewed journal articles. Stassun has
been a leader and advocate for broadening participation in STEM,
especially of underrepresented minorities and persons with disabilities.
He has served on NSF’s Committee for Equal Opportunity in Science and
Engineering, chaired the American Astronomical Society’s Committee on
Minorities, is a recipient of the American Physical Society’s Nicholson
Medal for Human Outreach, has been named Mentor of the Year by the
American Association for the Advancement of Science, and has been
honored with a Presidential Award for Excellence in Science Math and
Engineering Mentoring. Stassun currently serves as founding director of
the Frist Center for Autism & Innovation in Vanderbilt’s School of
Engineering, focused on advancing science and engineering through the
engagement and workforce development of individuals with autism and
other forms of neurodiversity.

**Merlin Theodore, Member, National Science Board**

Dr. Merlin Theodore is the Advanced Fibers Manufacturing Group Lead for
the Manufacturing Science Division at Oak Ridge National Laboratory
where she directs material research efforts and works with industry to
overcome the barriers associated with advanced manufacturing to enhance
U.S. competitiveness. Theodore’s diverse experience supports her current
role and as a researcher and scientific leader driving materials and
manufacturing innovation. She has served in several key leadership
positions supporting government agencies, industry, and academia. In her
adjacent role, Theodore serves as the Director for the Materials and
Processing Technology Area for the Institute for Advanced Composites
Manufacturing Innovation. She also holds a joint appointment at the
University of Tennessee. In previous roles, Theodore was the Head of
Excellence at SGL Automotive Carbon Fiber LLC in Moses Lake, Washington;
served as a research scientist and technical advisor/coordinator for the
educational task of the Minority Leaders Program at Universal Technology
Corporation co-located at AFRL Wright-Patterson Airforce Base, which
fosters HBCU and Hispanic University Minority students’ graduate
engineering degrees; and held a research faculty position at Georgia
Tech.

She has authored more than 30 open literature publications, holds
multiple U.S. patents, and has received numerous awards. She has served
by invitation on scientific and technical review panels, women in
science panels, and committees. A native from St. Croix U.S. Virgin
Islands, Theodore received a doctoral degree in material science and
engineering, a master’s in mechanical engineering, and an undergraduate
degree in chemical engineering from Tuskegee University.

**Wanda Elaine Ward, Member, National Science Board**

Dr. Wanda E. Ward is Executive Associate Chancellor for Public
Engagement, Office of the Chancellor, University of Illinois
Urbana-Champaign. She joined the university in 2018 as the Executive
Associate Chancellor for Administration and University Relations, where
she served as Chief of Staff to the Chancellor. Prior to joining the
University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign, Ward served in several senior
leadership positions throughout her 26 years at the National Science
Foundation, including in the Office of the Director (where she headed
the former Office of Integrative and International Activities); the
Directorate for Social, Behavioral and Economic Sciences; and the
Directorate for Education and Human Resources. She also served as
Assistant Director for Broadening Participation at the Office of Science
and Technology Policy, White House Executive Office of the President.

Ward has served on several of the President’s National Science and
Technology Council subcommittees and interagency working groups in the
areas of the social, behavioral and economic sciences, and science
education and workforce development. At the international level, she
served as a member of the International Social Science Council (ISSC)
Committee for Developing and Transition Economies and the ISSC Executive
Committee. Ward earned a BA in psychology and an Afro-American Studies
Certificate from Princeton University and a PhD in psychology from
Stanford University. She was awarded the U.S. Presidential Rank Award
for Distinguished Executive; the American Psychological Association
Presidential Citation; and the Federation of Behavioral, Psychological
and Cognitive Sciences Richard T. Louttit Award.

**Bevlee A. Watford, Member, National Science Board**

Dr. Bevlee A. Watford is the Associate Dean for Equity and Engagement
and Professor of Engineering Education in the College of Engineering at
Virginia Tech. As the founding executive director of the Center for the
Enhancement of Engineering Diversity (CEED), she has worked to broaden
participation in engineering through outreach and student support
activities. She has secured more than $17 million dollars in funding and
support for CEED and other student initiatives. Her research activities
have focused on the recruitment and retention of students in
engineering, with a particular emphasis on minoritized students. CEED
received the 2010 Claire Felbinger Diversity Award from ABET and the
2011 NSBE-ExxonMobil Impact award for implementing successful
research-based efforts to improve retention. In 2019, the College of
Engineering was recognized as a Bronze Exemplar institution in the ASEE
Deans Diversity Recognition program, largely based on CEED’s activities.

From 2005-2007, Watford served as a program manager in the Division of
Undergraduate Education for the National Science Foundation, returning
from 2013-2015 to serve as the program director for broadening
participation in the Division of Engineering Education and Centers. In
2010, she was elected as a Fellow of ASEE and she served as ASEE
president for the 2017-2018 year. Watford was the 2004-2005 President of
the Women in Engineering ProActive Network and has served on the Board
of Directors of the National Association of Multicultural Engineering
Program Administrators.

\###
