---
date: '2023-01-06'
published_time: 2023-01-06 09:42:52-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/01/06/statement-by-president-joe-biden-on-the-december-jobs-report/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Statement by President Joe\_Biden on the December Jobs\_Report"
---
 
Today’s report is great news for our economy and more evidence that my
economic plan is working.  The unemployment rate is the lowest in 50
years.  We have just finished the two strongest years of job growth in
history.  And we are seeing a transition to steady and stable growth
that I have been talking about for months.  We still have work to do to
bring down inflation, and help American families feeling the
cost-of-living squeeze.  But we are moving in the right direction.

The first two years of my presidency – 2021 and 2022 — were the two
strongest years of job growth on record. And in December, the
unemployment rate fell to its lowest level in the last 50 years.
Unemployment is near record lows for Black and Hispanic Americans, and
the unemployment rate for people with disabilities has never been lower
in our country’s history. At the same time, average monthly job gains
have come down from over 600,000 a month at the end of last year to
closer to 200,000 a month. This moderation in job growth is appropriate,
and we should expect it to continue in the months ahead, even as we
maintain resilience in our labor market recovery.

These historic jobs and unemployment gains are giving workers more power
and American families more breathing room. Real wages are up in recent
months, gas prices are down, and we are seeing welcome signs that
inflation is coming down as well. It’s a good time to be a worker in
America.

We have more work to do, and we may face setbacks along the way, but it
is clear that my economic strategy of growing the economy from the
bottom up and middle out is working. And we are just getting started.
This month we are capping the cost of insulin at $35 per month for
seniors. We are lowering Americans’ energy and utility bills. And
shovels are hitting the ground all around the country to rebuild our
infrastructure, supply chains, and manufacturing here at home. That’s
how we build an America we all take pride in, where working families
have good jobs and more breathing room, and the economy grows from the
bottom up and middle out for the long haul.

\###
