---
date: '2023-01-10'
published_time: 2023-01-10 12:54:40-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/01/10/readout-of-president-joe-bidens-meeting-with-prime-minister-trudeau-of-canada/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Readout of President Joe\_Biden\u2019s Meeting with Prime Minister Trudeau\
  \ of\_Canada"
---
 
President Joseph R. Biden, Jr. met today with Prime Minister Justin
Trudeau of Canada in Mexico City on the margins of the North American
Leaders’ Summit to discuss joint efforts to drive economic
competitiveness and inclusive growth, meet ambitious climate
commitments, strengthen cooperation on security and defense, and address
regional and global challenges, including Russia’s brutal war in
Ukraine, instability in Haiti, and irregular migration and forced
displacement throughout the region.

President Biden and Prime Minister Trudeau discussed the generational
opportunity to strengthen supply chains for critical minerals, electric
vehicles, and semiconductors and to unleash the full economic potential
of our shared continent. The two leaders discussed their commitments to
take bold action to combat climate change and transform North America
into a clean energy powerhouse. President Biden recognized Prime
Minister Trudeau for taking decisive steps to promote global energy
security.

As leading democracies and NATO Allies, President Biden and Prime
Minister Trudeau discussed defense and security cooperation to meet 21st
century challenges, promote collective security and prosperity, and
uphold a rules-based international system. They reaffirmed their
commitment to stand up for our shared values around the world, including
supporting the people of Ukraine as they defend themselves against
Russia’s brutal aggression. President Biden thanked Prime Minister
Trudeau for Canada’s partnership in providing security, economic, and
humanitarian assistance for Ukraine. The two leaders discussed the
importance of ensuring the continued defense and security of North
America through support for the binational North American Aerospace
Defense Command (NORAD).

President Biden and Prime Minister Trudeau also discussed the security
and humanitarian situation in Haiti. The leaders highlighted recent
coordinated actions to provide assistance to the people of Haiti and
hold those fomenting violence accountable, including through sanctions.
The two leaders committed to continue coordination with partners on the
UN Security Council on next steps to support stability to Haiti,
including support to the Haitian National Police.

Both leaders also underscored the importance of continued collaboration
on migration issues, particularly in expanding legal pathways and
increasing refugee resettlement — centerpieces of the Los Angeles
Declaration on Migration and Protection.

President Biden and Prime Minister Trudeau reaffirmed their commitment
to strengthen the U.S.-Canada partnership to promote human rights and
defend democratic values, including through steadfast support for
democratic institutions in Brazil following the unrest over the weekend.

During the meeting, the President also stated he looks forward to
traveling to Canada in March of this year.

\###
