---
date: '2023-01-05'
modified_time: 2023-01-05 19:23:12-05:00
published_time: 2023-01-05 15:00:00-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/01/05/president-biden-announces-key-regional-appointments-for-gsa-hhs/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Announces Key Regional Appointments for GSA,\_HHS"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Joe Biden appointed the following
individuals to serve in key regional leadership roles at the General
Services Administration (GSA) and the Department of Health and Human
Services (HHS):

-   Elliot Doomes, GSA Regional Administrator for Region 11
-   Jason Shelton, GSA Regional Administrator for Regions 4 and 7
-   Sukhee Kang, GSA Regional Administrator for Regions 9 and 10
-   Everett Handford, HHS Regional Director, Region 1 
-   Jeffrey Reynoso, HHS Regional Director, Region 9 

These regional appointees will be critical to the President’s efforts to
rebuild communities most impacted by the pandemic, the economic
recovery, and climate change. They bring deep expertise in their issue
areas as well as critical relationships with federal, state, tribal, and
local leaders. Consistent with the President’s commitment to building an
administration that looks like America, these regional appointees
represent the diversity of America and the communities they serve.

**<u>GENERAL SERVICES ADMINISTRATION (GSA)</u>**

Regional Administrators lead GSA’s Regional Offices and serve as
liaisons with: Members of Congress, representatives of federal, state,
and local government agencies, councils, committees, commissions,
boards, as well as others that benefit from GSA’s services in real
estate, acquisition, technology, and other mission areas. In alignment
with the Biden-Harris Administration’s priorities, they will also build
relationships that promote sustainability, strengthen American
manufacturing and job creation, ensure equity for underrepresented
populations and stakeholders, and more.

**<u>Elliot Doomes, GSA Regional Administrator, Region 11</u>**

Elliot Doomes previously served as Professional Staff on the Financial
Services and General Government Subcommittee of the Appropriations
Committee in the House of Representatives. He also formerly served as
Counsel for the Subcommittee on Economic Development, Public Buildings,
and Emergency Management on the Transportation and Infrastructure
Committee in the House of Representatives for over a decade. His
principal responsibility was to advise the Ranking Member of the
Committee and the Ranking Member of the subcommittee on GSA’s Real
Property activities. Doomes began his career as a Legislative Assistant
in the office of Congresswoman Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC) where his
primary focus was on economic development in the District of Columbia.
His signature staff work included passage of the *Federal and District
of Columbia Real Property Act of 2006,* which executed a complicated
land exchange between the District of Columbia, GSA, the National Park
Service, and the Architect of the Capitol that has enabled hundreds of
millions of dollars of economic development within the District of
Columbia. Doomes graduated from Morehouse College with a Bachelor of
Science in Chemistry and earned a Juris Doctorate from the Georgetown
University Law Center in Washington, DC.

Region 11 serves Maryland, Virginia, DC, Europe, Africa, and the Middle
East.

**<u>Jason Shelton, GSA Regional Administrator, Regions 4 and 7</u>**

Jason L. Shelton has been a licensed attorney for 23 years, with direct
legal experience as a civil trial attorney, criminal prosecutor,
criminal defense attorney, and municipal attorney. Shelton has
personally tried several hundred cases in a variety of courts throughout
the states of Mississippi and Alabama. Over the course of his career, he
has represented clients pro hac vice in litigation in New Jersey, New
York, Louisiana, and Illinois. From 2004-2013, Shelton owned, operated,
and managed Shelton & Associates, P.A., a general practice law firm in
Tupelo, Mississippi. In 2013, Shelton was elected Mayor of Tupelo,
Mississippi, where he managed over 500 full-time and 900 part-time
employees, and superintended a combined annual budget of approximately
$180 million. Shelton was widely recognized for his inclusive,
coalition-building leadership style that was reflected in the city’s
success during his two terms as mayor. Choosing not to seek a third term
in office, Shelton’s tenure as mayor concluded in July 2021. Shelton is
licensed to practice law in Mississippi and Alabama and is admitted to
practice in multiple state and federal courts.

Regions 4 and 7 serve Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Kentucky, Mississippi,
North Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, Louisiana, Arkansas,
Oklahoma, and New Mexico.

**<u>Sukhee Kang, GSA Regional Administrator, Regions 9 and 10</u>**

Sukhee Kang is a businessman, civic leader, and former city
councilmember and two-term mayor of Irvine, California. Born and raised
in South Korea, Kang and his wife Joanne immigrated to the United States
in 1977 following his graduation from the prestigious Korea University
with a degree in Food and Resource Economics. He and his wife built a
successful retail business of shoe stores in Orange, Los Angeles, and
Riverside counties. After the 1992 LA Riots inspired Kang to promote
greater civic engagement within the Korean American community, Governor
Gray Davis appointed him to the California Workforce Investment Board in
2000. Four years later, he won his first election to the Irvine City
Council. In 2008 Kang made history as the first Korean American mayor of
a major American city. Following his service on the city council, Kang
served as a special advisor to UC Irvine Chancellor Michael Drake and an
adjunct professor and Chancellor’s Fellow at Chapman University. He
holds an Honorary Doctoral Degree in Business Administration from
Dongseo University in Busan, Korea. Kang is the author of *The Power of
Possibility — My American Journey* and was honored for his community
leadership and citizenship by the Carnegie Corporation of New York with
their annual “Immigrants: The Pride of America” designation.

Regions 9 and 10 serve Arizona, California, Nevada, Alaska, Idaho,
Oregon, Washington, American Samoa, East Asia, and Guam. 

**<u>DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES (HHS)</u>** 

Regional Directors lead HHS’s 10 Regional Offices that directly serve
state and local organizations. Regional Directors ensure the Department
maintains close contact with state, local, and tribal partners and
addresses the needs of communities and individuals served through HHS
programs and policies. 

**<u>Everett</u>** **<u>Handford</u><u>, HHS Regional Director, Region
1</u>** 

Everett Handford joins the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services
from the Commonwealth of Massachusetts. He previously served as the
Deputy State Director for United States Senator Elizabeth Warren (D-MA).
Handford oversaw Senator Warren’s state operations, constituent services
portfolio, and political outreach. Prior to working for Senator Warren,
Handford was a brand management consultant for professional athletes.
Handford received his Master’s Degree from the University of Southwest
in Hobbs, New Mexico in Public Health Administration, a Business
Certificate from Northeastern University in Boston, Massachusetts, and a
BA in Science from Johnson & Wales University in Providence, RI.   

Region 1 serves Connecticut, Maine, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, Rhode
Island, and Vermont. 

**<u>Jeffrey Reynoso, HHS Regional Director, Region 9</u>** 

Jeffrey Reynoso previously served as the Executive Director of the
Latino Coalition for a Healthy California. He has worked on health
equity issues spanning academia, government, and non-profit sectors at
the local, state, and national level in roles including Doctoral Fellow
at Kaiser Permanente, where he designed innovative programs to address
food insecurity in the Southern California region; Public Health Fellow
in the Office of Congressman Raul Ruiz, advising on healthcare policy
issues; and Chief Administrative Officer at the County of San Diego
Health & Human Services Agency, supporting the executive team on
Affordable Care Act implementation. Reynoso holds a Doctor of Public
Health from Harvard University, a Master of Public Health from UC
Berkeley, and a BA from UCLA. A son of working-class immigrants from
Mexico who grew up in California’s Central Valley and North San Diego
County, he is in the first generation of his family to attend college. 

Region 9 serves Arizona, California, Hawaii, Nevada, American Samoa,
Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, Federated States of
Micronesia, Guam, Marshall Islands, and Republic of Palau. 

\###
