---
date: '2023-01-09'
published_time: 2023-01-09 20:39:30-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/01/09/readout-of-president-joe-bidens-meeting-with-president-lopez-obrador-of-mexico/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Readout of President Joe\_Biden\u2019s Meeting with President L\xF3pez Obrador\
  \ of\_Mexico"
---
 
President Joseph R. Biden, Jr. met today with President Andrés Manuel
López Obrador in Mexico City to strengthen bilateral cooperation between
the United States and Mexico and create a more prosperous and
secure future for North America. Their meeting builds upon 200 years of
bilateral relations between the United States and Mexico, an
enduring partnership that reflects our shared values and the cultural
and familial bonds between our two countries.  

President Biden and President López Obrador discussed the violent
protests in Brazil and reiterated that the free will of the people of
Brazil and its democracy has the support of the United States and
Mexico. 

The two leaders also reviewed security cooperation under the
Bicentennial Framework for Security, Public Health, and Safe Communities
and discussed increased cooperation to prosecute drug traffickers
and dismantle criminal networks, disrupt the supply of illicit precursor
chemicals used to make fentanyl, shut down drug laboratories,
and prevent trafficking of drugs, arms, and people across our shared
border.  

The two Presidents reaffirmed their commitment to the United
States-Mexico-Canada Agreement as the foundation for North American
competitiveness and the basis for economic prosperity and social
development.  They discussed their shared vision for greater economic
integration to increase productive capacity and promote inclusive
growth, including incentives under the CHIPS and Science Act to promote
investment in semiconductor clusters along the border. 

The leaders reviewed progress towards their ambitious climate
commitments, including achieving the emissions
targets established in their nationally determined contributions and
reaching the goals Mexico announced at the UN Climate Change Conference
(COP27) in Egypt in November. The two leaders highlighted the economic
opportunities created by North America’s clean energy
transition, including investments in renewable energy and the tax
credits under the Inflation Reduction Act to increase
production of electric vehicles and batteries.  

The two Presidents reaffirmed their commitment to implement innovative
approaches to address irregular migration, pursuant to the Los Angeles
Declaration on Migration and Protection. President
Biden discussed the recent announcement of additional enforcement
actions, coupled with expanded pathways for Cubans, Haitians,
Nicaraguans, and Venezuelans in addressing irregular
migration. President Biden and President López
Obrador also reaffirmed their commitment to address the root causes of
migration.

\###
