---
date: '2023-01-23'
modified_time: 2023-01-24 12:35:38-05:00
published_time: 2023-01-23 16:45:00-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/01/23/president-biden-announces-key-nominees-36/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Announces Key\_Nominees"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Joe Biden announced his intent to nominate
the following individuals to serve as key leaders in his
administration: 

-   Elizabeth Allen, Nominee for Under Secretary for Public Diplomacy,
    U.S. Department of State
-   Joshua Jacobs, Nominee for Under Secretary for Benefits, U.S.
    Department of Veterans Affairs
-   Ron Borzekowski, Nominee for Director of the Office of Financial
    Research, U.S. Department of Treasury
-   David J. Kostelancik, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
    Plenipotentiary to the Republic of Albania
-   Cynthia Kierscht, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
    Plenipotentiary to the Republic of Djibouti
-   Jennifer L. Johnson, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
    Plenipotentiary to the Federated States of Micronesia 
-   Julie Turner, Nominee for Special Envoy on North Korean Human Rights
    Issues, with the Rank of Ambassador
-   Liliana Ayalde, Nominee for Member of the Inter-American Foundation
-   Marcela Escobari, Nominee for Member of the Inter-American
    Foundation
-   Maria Fabiana Jorge, Nominee for Member of the Inter-American
    Foundation
-   Brian Nichols, Nominee for Member of the Inter-American Foundation
-   Julio Guity-Guevara, Nominee for Member of the Inter-American
    Foundation
-   Carol Moseley Braun, Nominee for Member and Chair of the United
    States African Development Foundation
-   Monde Muyangwa, Nominee for Member of the United States African
    Development Foundation
-   Kathryn Lang, Nominee for Member of the Social Security Advisory
    Board

Also today, the White House will renominate candidates who were not
confirmed in the last Congress. Today’s transmission to the Senate will
include nominees to serve in key agency leadership and bipartisan boards
and commissions positions. The White House hopes the Senate will take
action expeditiously.

**<u>Elizabeth Allen, Nominee for Under Secretary for Public Diplomacy,
U.S. Department of State</u>**

Liz Allen was appointed as the Assistant Secretary of State for Global
Public Affairs by President Biden in 2021 and currently serves as Senior
Official for Public Diplomacy and Public Affairs at the U.S. Department
of State in Washington, D.C. A longtime communications and public
affairs strategist, Allen was previously a partner at the strategic
advisory firm FGS Global, where she specialized in message and advocacy
strategy, reputation and crisis management, and executive leadership
communications on a range of international public policy issues. Allen
served in the Obama-Biden Administration for eight years, including as
White House Deputy Communications Director and Deputy Assistant to
President Barack Obama. She also was the White House Director of Message
Planning and Deputy Director of Communications to then-Vice President
Joe Biden. In 2020, Allen served on the Biden-Harris Presidential
campaign as Vice President Kamala Harris’s Communications Director.
Allen began her career at the U.S. Department of State in the Office of
Global Women’s Issues and Bureau of International Narcotics and Law
Enforcement. During the Obama-Biden Administration, she served at the
State Department as Director of Strategic Communications and Public
Affairs in the Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs. Allen
graduated Magna Cum Laude and Phi Beta Kappa with a degree in Political
Science from the State University of New York College at Geneseo, and is
a native of Buffalo, New York.

**<u>Joshua Jacobs, Nominee for Under Secretary for Benefits, U.S.
Department of Veterans Affairs</u>**

Joshua Jacobs serves as the Senior Advisor for Policy Performing the
Delegable Duties of the Under Secretary for Benefits at the U.S.
Department of Veterans Affairs. In this role, he leads more than 25,000
Veterans Benefits Administration (VBA) employees in the delivery of
non-medical benefits programs. VBA provides disability compensation
benefits to nearly 6 million veterans and their survivors and
administers pension benefits for over 350,000 veterans and their
survivors. Through a nationwide network of 56 regional offices, special
processing centers, and VBA Headquarters, he oversees the execution of
nearly $135 billion in direct benefits to veterans and their dependents.
Josh previously served as Senior Advisor for Policy in the Office of the
Secretary, where he helped to design and implement a new structure and
process for enterprise governance and policy development. In this role,
Josh established and chaired the new Evidence Based Policy Council,
which meets on a regular basis to drive enterprise policy making. Josh
also developed a new interagency policy development process to
coordinate and implement more than 50 interagency policy efforts. Prior
to rejoining the Department of Veterans Affairs in 2021, Jacobs was a
Senior Associate at Booz Allen Hamilton. Jacobs also served as Senior
Advisor in the Office of the Secretary of Veterans Affairs during the
Obama-Biden Administration, where he was awarded the Secretary’s
Meritorious Service Award. Jacobs also served nine years in the U.S.
Senate, including two years as Deputy Staff Director for the Senate
Veterans’ Affairs Committee. Jacobs is a graduate of the University of
Washington. He and his wife, Julia, have three children.

**<u>Ron Borzekowski, Nominee for Director of the Office of Financial
Research, U.S. Department of Treasury</u>**

Ron Borzekowski is the inaugural Executive Director of Yale’s
Data-Intensive Social Science Center and the Senior Research Scholar in
the Economics Department and at the Institution for Social and Political
Studies. Prior to Yale, Borzekowski was a Director of Economics at
Amazon Web Services. During his time in public service, Borzekowski
helped build and then lead the Office of Research at the Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau. The Office supported the Bureau’s policy
efforts with data and economic research about the financial decisions of
consumers and households, and the functioning of financial markets. In
that role, Borzekowski also served on the FSOC Deputies committee for
the CFPB. Before that role, Borzekowski was a Senior Economist at the
Federal Reserve Board. During part of that time, he was detailed as the
Deputy Research Director for the Financial Crisis Inquiry Commission,
helping to draft the official government report documenting the history
of the Housing and Financial Crises of 2007-2008. Borzekowski received
his Ph.D. in economics from Stanford University and an M.P.P. from the
John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University. He also
holds a BA is in Mathematics and a BS in Political Science from
Stanford.

**<u>David J. Kostelancik, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
Plenipotentiary to the Republic of Albania</u>**

David J. Kostelancik, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service with
the rank of Minister-Counselor, currently serves as Foreign Policy
Advisor to Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, General Mark Milley.
Kostelancik previously served as Deputy Chief of Mission, and for two
years, as Charge d’Affaires, ad interim at the U.S. Embassy in Budapest,
Hungary. Other assignments include Director of the Office of South
Central European Affairs and Director of the Office of Russian Affairs,
both in the Bureau of European and Eurasian Affairs, as well as Director
of the Office of Europe and Asia in the Bureau of International
Narcotics and Law Enforcement Affairs. Earlier, Kostelancik was posted
twice to the U.S. Embassy in Moscow, Russia. Other overseas postings
include the U.S. Mission to the OSCE and the U.S. Mission to NATO, the
U.S. Embassy in Tirana, Albania and the U.S. Embassy in Ankara, Turkey.
A native of Illinois, he is a graduate of the National War College,
where he earned a Master of Science. He also received a Master of Arts
degree from the University of Michigan, and a Bachelor of Arts degree
from Northwestern University. He speaks Russian, Hungarian, Albanian,
and Turkish.

**<u>Cynthia Kierscht, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
Plenipotentiary to the Republic of Djibouti</u>**

Cynthia Kierscht, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class
of Minister-Counselor, currently serves as the U.S. Ambassador to the
Islamic Republic of Mauritania. Prior to that, Kierscht was Deputy
Assistant Secretary in the State Department’s Bureau of Western
Hemisphere Affairs and earlier was the Director of the Office of
Canadian Affairs in the same bureau. In Africa, Kierscht served at the
U.S. Embassies in Rabat, Morocco as Deputy Political Counselor, in
Cairo, Egypt as a Political Officer, and as a Political Officer in the
newly established U.S. Interests Section in Tripoli, Libya after
intensive Arabic language training. She also worked as a Regional
Affairs Officer in the Bureau of Counterterrorism in the State
Department. Among her other assignments, Kierscht served at the U.S.
Embassy in Bogota, Colombia where she held such positions as Deputy
Management Counselor, Cultural Affairs Officer, and Coordinator for the
Summit of the Americas. Kierscht earned her B.A. degree from Carleton
College in Northfield, Minnesota and her M.P.P. from Harvard University,
Kennedy School of Government. Her foreign languages are Arabic, French
and Spanish. 

**<u>Jennifer L. Johnson, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
Plenipotentiary to the Federated States of Micronesia </u>**

Jennifer L. Johnson, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service with
the rank of Minister-Counselor, currently serves as the Chief of Staff
to the Under Secretary for Management. Prior to that, she was Acting
Deputy Assistant Secretary and Director of the Office of Policy
Coordination in the Bureau of Global Talent Management. Previously,
Johnson served overseas in leadership positions at U.S. Embassies and
Consulates in Cuba, Chile, United Arab Emirates, and Turkey. She has
held domestic positions at the U.S. Mission to the United Nations in New
York, the Office of the Under Secretary for Management, the Executive
Secretariat, the Bureau of Western Hemisphere Affairs, and the Bureau of
Global Talent Management. Earlier in her career, Johnson was selected to
participate in the Una Chapman Cox Sabbatical Leave Fellowship. A native
of New York, Johnson earned a B.A. from Villanova University and studied
abroad at the University of New South Wales in Australia. She is a
graduate of the National War College where she earned an M.S. degree.
Johnson speaks Spanish, Turkish, and Japanese.

**<u>Julie Turner, Nominee for Special Envoy on North Korean Human
Rights Issues, with the Rank of Ambassador</u>**

Julie Turner is the Director of the Office of East Asia and the Pacific
in the Bureau of Democracy, Human Rights and Labor at the Department of
State. Prior to that, she was Director for Southeast Asia at the
National Security Council. Turner has served more than 16 years in the
Office of East Asia and the Pacific, in positions of increasing
responsibility, primarily focused on initiatives related to promoting
human rights in North Korea, including a tour as Special Assistant in
the Office of the Special Envoy on North Korean Human Rights Issues. She
began her career at the Department of State as a Presidential Management
Intern. Turner earned a B.A. at Pepperdine University, and an M.A. at
the University of Maryland at College Park. She speaks French and
Korean.  

**<u>Liliana Ayalde, Nominee for Member of the Inter-American
Foundation</u>**

Ambassador Ayalde retired from the U.S. Foreign Service following a
distinguished 38-year career with extensive experience in the Western
Hemisphere. She dedicated her diplomatic career to foreign affairs,
development, defense, and security in Latin America and the Caribbean.
Most recently, Ayalde served as the civilian deputy to the Commander and
Foreign Policy Advisor at the United States Southern Command in Miami
until September 2019. She served as the U.S. Ambassador to the
Federative Republic of Brazil. Prior to this appointment, she served as
the Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for Western Hemisphere Affairs
in the Department of State. She was also the Senior Deputy Assistant
Administrator for the Latin American and Caribbean Bureau for the United
States Agency for International Development (USAID). Following her
assignment as USAID Mission Director in Colombia, where she had
responsibility for the development assistance portfolio under Plan
Colombia, she was confirmed as the U.S. Ambassador to the Republic of
Paraguay. Ayalde currently serves as Senior Advisor for the Center for
Strategic and International Studies and is a member of several boards
such as the Wilson Center’s Latin America Program, Global Americans,
IREX, and the National Endowment for Democracy.

Ayalde is the recipient of numerous honors and awards, including USAID’s
Distinguished Career Award, the Department of State’s Distinguished
Service Honor Award, and the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff’s
Joint Distinguished Civilian Service Award. She has also been honored
with recognitions by the governments where she served, including the
Order of San Carlos by the Government of Colombia, the Order for Gran
Cruz by the Government of Paraguay, and several recognitions by the
Government of Brazil. Ayalde earned her B.A. from the School of
International Studies at American University in Washington, D.C. and an
M.P.H. from Tulane University in Louisiana. She is fluent in Spanish and
Portuguese and has a working knowledge of French.

**<u>Marcela Escobari, Nominee for Member of the Inter-American
Foundation</u>**

Marcela Escobari serves as the Assistant Administrator of USAID’s Bureau
for Latin America and the Caribbean. For over two decades, Escobari has
led organizations focused on promoting inclusive and sustainable growth.
As Assistant Administrator, she is spearheading USAID’s efforts to
advance a collaborative, regional response to the historic displacement
of seven million people across Latin America. Working within the United
States and with regional partners, USAID is driving forward a
three-pronged strategy focused on addressing the root causes of
migration, expanding legal pathways, and promoting the integration of
migrants into host communities. She is expanding the bureau’s efforts to
help democratic reformers in the region deliver results for their
citizens in the face of the economic contraction caused by COVID-19.
Escobari served in this role under the Obama-Biden Administration,
becoming the first woman to hold the job in USAID’s 60-year history.

Prior to serving in government, Escobari was Executive Director at the
Center for International Development at Harvard University. Under her
leadership, the Center launched the online platform the Atlas for
Economic Complexity, focused on helping countries diversify their
exports and unlock constraints to economic growth. Most recently, as a
senior fellow at the Brookings Institution, she led the Workforce of the
Future initiative to help workers prosper in the face of evolving labor
markets. The World Economic Forum named her a Young Global Leader in
2013. She holds a B.A. in economics from Swarthmore College and an
M.P.P. from the Harvard Kennedy School.

*Escobari will continue serving in their Senate confirmed role while
nominated and if confirmed*

**<u>Maria Fabiana Jorge, Nominee for Member of the Inter-American
Foundation</u>**

M. Fabiana Jorge is the Alternate Executive Director for the United
States at the Inter-American Development Bank. Before joining the IDB,
Jorge founded and served as president of MFJ International, LLC, a
global consulting firm that has specialized in international business
and foreign trade since 2000. Jorge has three decades of experience in
trade negotiations with a focus on intellectual property and access to
medicines. She has been involved in many trade negotiations, including
the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement (USMCA), the Comprehensive and
Progressive Agreement for Trans-Pacific Partnership (CPTPP), the New
Trade Policy of 2007, the Dominican Republic-Central American Free Trade
Agreement (CAFTA-DR), the EU-Canada Comprehensive and Trade Agreement
(CETA), and the EU-Mercosur Trade Agreement.

Jorge was previously a Principal at Verner, Liipfert, Bernhard,
McPherson, and Hand, where she was the head of the Latin American
Affairs Division. She was an adjunct professor at the University of El
Salvador in Buenos Aires, Argentina, where she was born. Jorge holds a
Bachelor degree in Political Science with a specialization in
International Relations from Catholic University in Buenos Aires. She
has a Masters in Business Administration from Columbia University. Jorge
is fluent in Spanish and French and has working knowledge of Portuguese.
She moved to the United States over 30 years ago and resides in
Washington, DC with her husband Doug and three kids, Christopher,
Phillip, and Nicole.

*Fabiana Jorge will continue serving in their Senate confirmed role
while nominated and if confirmed*

**<u>Brian Nichols, Nominee for Member of the Inter-American
Foundation</u>**

Brian A. Nichols has served as the Assistant Secretary of State for
Western Hemisphere Affairs since 2021. Nichols previously served as the
U.S. Ambassador to the Republic of Zimbabwe. In that role, he promoted
democracy, rule of law, and human rights in Zimbabwe while managing
multi-dimensional humanitarian crises brought on by corruption, climate
change, and the COVID-19 pandemic. Prior to that, Nichols served as the
U.S. Ambassador to Peru. There, he pioneered strategies against illegal
gold mining, illegal logging, wildlife trafficking, and environmental
degradation. He supported American trade and investment in Peru,
increasing agricultural sales to over $1 billion annually, defending the
rights of American investors, and building the Hemisphere’s largest
public-private partnership, the U.S.-Peru Cacao Alliance.

Nichols was formerly Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for
International Narcotics and Law Enforcement Affairs (INL). In that
capacity, he oversaw the full range of rule of law programs,
counter-narcotics, and multilateral issues managed by the bureau. He
also served as the Deputy Chief of Mission at the U.S. Embassy in
Colombia, where he managed day-to-day U.S. diplomatic activities in
Colombia including overseeing over $500 million in annual assistance.
Nichols led the Office of Caribbean Affairs, coordinating U.S. policy
toward 14 Caribbean countries. Prior to that, he served as Political
Counselor in Indonesia, as well as tours in Mexico and El Salvador
during major democratic transitions. He began his Foreign Service career
as a Consular Officer in Peru in 1989. A native of Providence, Rhode
Island, Nichols has earned 27 awards during his diplomatic career,
including a Presidential Distinguished Service Award, two Presidential
Meritorious Service Awards, and the 2016 Charles E. Cobb, Jr. Award for
Initiative and Success in Trade Development.

*Nichols will continue serving in their Senate confirmed role while
nominated and if confirmed*

**<u>Julio Guity-Guevara, Nominee for Member of the Inter-American
Foundation</u>**

Julio Guity-Guevara is the Maryland Regional Elections Manager for Casa
in Action, where he focuses on achieving greater voter engagement among
working-class members and communities of color. In 2021, he was
appointed to serve at the National Advisory Committee on Racial, Ethnic,
and Other Populations of the U.S. Census Bureau, Department of Commerce.
In recent years, he has been serving as Managing Director of SUDECC,
Inc., a consulting firm that promotes sustainable development and
implements projects in vulnerable populations, particularly in Latin
America and the Caribbean. In 2020, he was selected as one of the top 40
Latinx experts in U.S. national security and foreign policy by the
Diversity in National Security Network and New America. He was formerly
appointed to serve as Deputy Director of the Washington, D.C. Mayor’s
Office on Latino Affairs.  
   
Guity-Guevara began his career in international development by joining
the Organization of American States as an Attorney Fellow for the
Inter-American Commission on Human Rights. Subsequently, as a legal
advisor and project attorney, he worked with the World Bank Group, the
Organization of American States and the Inter-American Development Bank.
While working at these organizations, he developed an expertise in
international project finance, dispute settlement mechanisms, and small
and medium sized enterprises. He holds a Master of Laws (LL.M.) from
Washington College of Law, American University.

**<u>Carol Moseley Braun, Nominee for Member and Chair of the United
States African Development Foundation</u>**

Ambassador Carol Moseley Braun was the first Black woman elected to the
United States Senate. She has served at international, national, state,
and local capacities for the U.S. government, such as Ambassador to New
Zealand and Samoa, Recorder of Deeds and Registrar of Titles of Cook
County, Illinois, an Illinois State Representative, and Assistant United
States Attorney.

Braun also has private sector experience, having founded and maintained
her company, Good Food Organics, for over a decade. Her first job was as
a grocery store checker, as her grandmother owned a grocery store in
what is now called Bronzeville, Illinois. Her family has farmland in
Union Springs, Alabama, and she remains involved with restoring the
farm. Braun has worked in academia and with private law firms, however,
she is most committed to public service. She serves on several public
service boards and commissions, including the DuSable Museum of African
American History, the World War I Commission Advisory Board, the
Consecration Committee for the Episcopal Diocese, Our American Voices,
and Delta Sigma Theta Sorority, Inc. She holds several honorary degrees
and awards. 

**<u>Monde Muyangwa, Nominee for Member of the United States African
Development Foundation</u>**

Monde Muyangwa serves as the Assistant Administrator in the Bureau for
Africa. She has over 25 years of senior-level experience on African
politics and U.S.-Africa relations, including working with African
governments, international partners, civil society, academia, and
private sectors in both the United States and African nations. Muyangwa
most recently worked as the Director of the Africa Program at the
Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars, where she led programs
and research designed to analyze and offer practical, actionable options
for addressing some of Africa’s most critical, current, and
over-the-horizon issues; foster policy-focused dialogue about and
options for stronger and mutually-beneficial U.S.-Africa relations; and
challenge the dominant narrative about Africa by enhancing knowledge and
understanding about the continent in the United States. Prior to joining
the Wilson Center, Monde served as Academic Dean at the Africa Center
for Strategic Studies (ACSS) at the National Defense University from
2002 to 2013, where she led and managed the Center’s programs on
security studies, counter-terrorism and transnational threats,
civil-military relations, defense economics, and conflict management.
She also worked as Director of Research, and then Vice President for
Research and Policy, at the National Summit on Africa where she led a
policy-oriented nation-wide dialogue on Africa that culminated in a
National Policy Plan of Action for U.S.-Africa Relations.

She holds a Ph.D. in International Relations and a B.A. in Politics,
Philosophy, and Economics from the University of Oxford (England), as
well as a B.A. in Public Administration and Economics from the
University of Zambia. She is a Rhodes Scholar, a Wingate Scholar, and
the University of Zambia Valedictory Speaker for her graduating class.
Monde is a Zambia-born immigrant and long-time resident of Bowie in
Prince George’s County, Maryland.

**<u>Kathryn Lang, Nominee for Member of the Social Security Advisory
Board</u>**

Kathryn Lang serves as Director of Federal Income Security in the
Washington, D.C. Office of Justice in Aging, a national non-profit legal
advocacy organization that uses the power of law to fight senior
poverty. Since joining Justice in Aging, her advocacy has focused on
improving the Social Security and Supplemental Security Income (SSI)
programs, centering on the needs of people of color, women, LGBTQ+
individuals, those living with disabilities, immigrants, and those with
limited English proficiency. Her areas of expertise include improving
access to SSI benefits, the representative payee program, and language
access issues at the Social Security Administration.

Prior to joining Justice in Aging, Lang was an attorney at the Maryland
Legal Aid Bureau in Riverdale, Maryland, where she was an advocate for
low-income older adults and persons with disabilities for several years.
In previous positions, she worked as an attorney at the National Legal
Aid and Defender Association, Bread for the City Legal Clinic, and
Doherty, Cella, Keane, and Associates, LLP, all in Washington, D.C. She
also served as a staff attorney at Legal Services of Northern
California. She received her B.A. from Oberlin College and her J.D. from
Fordham University School of Law. She also has a Master’s degree from
the University of Pennsylvania in teaching English to speakers of other
languages.

\###
