---
date: '2023-01-13'
modified_time: 2023-01-13 14:16:37-05:00
published_time: 2023-01-13 14:16:36-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/01/13/joint-statement-of-the-united-states-and-japan/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Joint Statement of the United\_States and\_Japan"
---
 
President Joseph R. Biden, Jr. of the United States and Prime Minister
Kishida Fumio of Japan meet at a historic moment for our Alliance, the
Indo-Pacific, and the world. Our cooperation today is unprecedented,
rooted in our shared vision of a free and open Indo-Pacific and a
peaceful and prosperous world, guided by our shared values including the
rule of law. At the same time, the Indo-Pacific faces growing
challenges, from actions inconsistent with the rules-based international
order by China to provocations by North Korea. In Europe, meanwhile,
Russia continues to wage its unjust and brutal war of aggression against
Ukraine. We strongly oppose any unilateral attempts to change the status
quo by force or coercion, anywhere in the world. Taken together, this
landscape demands that the United States and Japan continue to
strengthen our individual and collective capacity. To that end,
President Biden commended Japan’s bold leadership in fundamentally
reinforcing its defense capabilities and strengthening diplomatic
efforts, as illustrated in the new National Security Strategy, National
Defense Strategy and Defense Buildup Program. This investment will
bolster security across the Indo-Pacific and beyond and modernize the
U.S.-Japan relationship for the 21st century.  
  
Our security Alliance has never been stronger. The two leaders
reaffirmed that the Alliance remains the cornerstone of peace, security,
and prosperity of the Indo-Pacific. President Biden reiterated the
unwavering commitment of the United States to the defense of Japan under
Article V of the Treaty of Mutual Cooperation and Security, using its
full range of capabilities, including nuclear. He also reaffirmed that
Article V applies to the Senkaku Islands. In their Security Consultative
Committee (“2+2”), our foreign and defense ministers highlighted the
exceptional progress we have made toward modernizing our Alliance.
Together, we have aligned our collective force posture and deterrence
capabilities to meet new and emerging threats, including in the cyber
and space domains. The leaders also instructed their ministers to
reinforce cooperation on the development and effective employment of
Japan’s counterstrike and other capabilities. We have deepened
cooperation on critical and emerging technologies that are crucial for
national security. We reaffirm our commitment to the complete
denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula in accordance with United
Nations Security Council resolutions. President Biden reaffirms U.S.
commitment to the immediate resolution of the abductions issue. We
emphasize that our basic positions on Taiwan remain unchanged, and
reiterate the importance of maintaining peace and stability across the
Taiwan Strait as an indispensable element of security and prosperity in
the international community. We encourage the peaceful resolution of
cross-Strait issues. We also recognize that the challenges we face
transcend geography. United across the Atlantic and Pacific oceans, we
have stood together in firm opposition to Russia’s unjust and brutal war
of aggression against Ukraine, and we will continue to impose sanctions
on Russia, and provide unwavering support for Ukraine. We state
unequivocally that any use of a nuclear weapon by Russia in Ukraine
would be an act of hostility against humanity and unjustifiable in any
way. And we will continue to support Ukraine in the face of Russia’s
abhorrent attacks on critical infrastructure.  
  
The United States and Japan also reaffirm our economic leadership. As
the two largest democratic economies in the world, we look forward to
advancing domestic and global prosperity and upholding a free, fair and
rules-based economic order through Japan’s Presidency of the G7 and the
United States’ hosting of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC).
The two leaders discussed priorities for the G7 Hiroshima Summit and
will continue to work closely toward a successful summit so as to
demonstrate the G7’s commitment to upholding the international order
based on the rule of law. Building on our efforts in the U.S.-Japan
Competitiveness and Resilience (CoRe) Partnership, including through the
Economic Policy Consultative Committee, we will sharpen our shared edge
on economic security, including protection and promotion of critical and
emerging technologies, including semiconductors; space, including
through our new bilateral Space Framework Agreement; and clean energy
and energy security, where we have deepened our cooperation on nuclear
energy while upholding the highest nonproliferation standards. We will
build resilience in our societies and supply chains among like-minded
partners against threats such as economic coercion, non-market policies
and practices and natural disasters, accelerate global efforts to tackle
the climate crisis, and advance data free flow with trust. The
Indo-Pacific Economic Framework (IPEF) is at the center of achieving
these goals. As inclusive democracies, we will ensure economic
prosperity is broadly shared across our societies and recommit to
achieving gender equity and equality as well as women’s empowerment.
Globally, we will work together to drive sustainable progress to net
zero, evolve the multilateral development banks to better address global
challenges, and improve creditor coordination to provide debt relief. 
We will condemn all who use their economic power to take advantage of
others, including Russia’s undermining of energy and food security
around the world. We also call on China to report adequate transparent
epidemiological and viral genomic sequence data regarding the spread of
COVID-19, to enable public health officials around the world be prepared
to reduce the spread and identify any potential new variants.  
  
With an unbreakable bilateral relationship as our foundation, we will
also collaborate with others, in the region and beyond, for the benefit
of the Indo-Pacific and the world. Together with Australia and India, we
will ensure the Quad continues to be a force for good, committed to
bringing tangible benefits to the region, including by delivering
results on global health, cybersecurity, climate, critical and emerging
technologies, and maritime domain awareness. We will continue supporting
ASEAN centrality and unity as well as the ASEAN Outlook on the
Indo-Pacific. We commit to strengthening vital trilateral cooperation
among Japan, the Republic of Korea, and the United States, in security
and other domains. And we will bolster our growing collaboration in the
Pacific Islands, including through the Partners in the Blue Pacific.
President Biden congratulated Japan on the start of its two-year term on
the UN Security Council and on its presidency for the month of January.
We begin 2023 together as the closest of allies and friends, newly
committed to achieving peace and prosperity, not only through our words
but through our actions. The times demand no less.

\###
