---
date: '2025-10-01'
modified_time: 2025-10-01 17:53:55-04:00
published_time: 2025-10-01 17:52:53-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/articles/2025/10/global-support-for-president-trumps-bold-vision-for-peace-in-gaza/
tags: articles
title: "Global Support for President Trump\u2019s Bold Vision for Peace in Gaza"
---
 
President Donald J. Trump’s [groundbreaking
plan](https://x.com/RapidResponse47/status/1972726021196562494) for
peace in Gaza has galvanized a chorus of international praise as the
potential pivotal turning point after years of devastating war. Hailed
as a game changer by nations across continents, President Trump’s
comprehensive framework emphasizes an urgent end to hostilities, the
full liberation of all hostages, sustained humanitarian relief, and
Gaza’s transformation into a beacon of prosperity.

**The visionary plan has been embraced by key leaders from the Arab
world to the West:**

[Joint Statement by the Foreign Ministers of Qatar, Jordan, UAE,
Indonesia, Pakistan, Türkiye, Saudi Arabia, and
Egypt](https://x.com/MofaQatar_EN/status/1972770277319954465): “The
Foreign Ministers of the State of Qatar, the Hashemite Kingdom of
Jordan, the United Arab Emirates, the Republic of Indonesia, the Islamic
Republic of Pakistan, the Republic of Türkiye, the Kingdom of Saudi
Arabia, and the Arab Republic of Egypt welcome President Donald J.
Trump’s leadership and his sincere efforts to end the war in Gaza, and
assert their confidence in his ability to find a path to peace. They
emphasize the importance of the partnership with the United States in
securing peace in the region. Along these lines, the ministers welcome
the announcement by President Trump regarding his proposal to end the
war, rebuild Gaza, prevent the displacement of the Palestinian people
and advance a comprehensive peace, as well as his announcement that he
will not allow the annexation of the West Bank. The ministers affirm
their readiness to engage positively and constructively with the United
States and the parties toward finalizing the agreement and ensuring its
implementation, in a manner that ensures peace, security, and stability
for the peoples of the region.”

[Australian Prime Minister Anthony
Albanese](https://x.com/AlboMP/status/1972880763831116029): “Australia
welcomes President Trump’s plan to bring peace to Gaza after two years
of conflict and devastating loss of life.”

[Azerbaijani Ministry of Foreign
Affairs](https://x.com/AzerbaijanMFA/status/1972930767832371410): “We
welcome the announcement of Comprehensive Plan to End the Gaza Conflict
proposed by the U.S. President Donald J. Trump. A sustainable and just
peace requires sincere commitment, mutual trust, and respect for
international law. The exchange of prisoners and hostages, and
addressing humanitarian needs of the population are vital to pave the
way for long-term stabilization and political settlement through
building confidence and easing tensions. Only through dialogue and
goodwill a long-lasting settlement, with the two-state solution at its
core, can be achieved.”

[Canadian Prime Minister Mark
Carney](https://x.com/MarkJCarney/status/1972818644783481271): “Canada
welcomes President Trump’s historic new Middle East peace plan, and we
urge all parties to help it realise its full potential. As the critical
next step, Hamas must immediately release all hostages. Canada stands
ready to support the sustained, unimpeded, and large-scale delivery of
humanitarian aid into and throughout Gaza. We will continue our close
coordination with international partners to build a just and lasting
peace that builds on today’s progress, with a sovereign, democratic, and
viable State of Palestine building its future in peace and security with
the State of Israel.”

[China](https://english.news.cn/20250930/4b0fb0453bba4c82af772c64a2ea8e5f/c.html):
“China welcomes and supports all efforts conducive to easing the
tensions between Palestine and Israel, foreign ministry spokesperson Guo
Jiakun said on Tuesday.”

[European Commission President Ursula von der
Leyen](https://x.com/vonderleyen/status/1972912270419091576): “Welcome
President @realDonaldTrump’s commitment to end the war in Gaza.
Encourage all parties to now seize this opportunity. The EU stands ready
to contribute.”

[European Council President Antonio
Costa](https://x.com/eucopresident/status/1972775217429668333): “I
welcome President @realDonaldTrump’s plan to end the war in Gaza and I
am encouraged by Prime Minister @netanyahu’s positive response. All
parties must seize this moment to give peace a genuine chance. The
situation in Gaza is intolerable. Hostilities must end, and all hostages
must be released immediately. The Israeli and Palestinian people deserve
to live side by side, in peace and security, free from violence and
terrorism. A two-state solution remains the only viable path to a just
and lasting peace in the Middle East.”

[French President Emmanuel
Macron](https://x.com/EmmanuelMacron/status/1972757527390507343): “I
welcome President @realDonaldTrump’s commitment to ending the war in
Gaza and securing the release of all hostages. I expect Israel to engage
resolutely on this basis. Hamas has no choice but to immediately release
all hostages and follow this plan. These elements must pave the way for
in-depth discussions with all relevant partners to build a lasting peace
in the region, based on the two-state solution and on the principles
endorsed by 142 UN member states, at the initiative of France and Saudi
Arabia. France stands ready to contribute. It will remain vigilant
regarding the commitments of each party.”

[German Foreign Minister Johann
Wadephul](https://www.auswaertiges-amt.de/en/newsroom/news/2737466-2737466):
“The US peace plan for Gaza offers a unique opportunity to end the
terrible war in Gaza. It gives hope to hundreds of thousands of people
suffering in Gaza under fierce fighting, appalling captivity as hostages
or unimaginable humanitarian conditions. Finally there is hope for
Israelis and Palestinians that this war could soon be over. This
opportunity must not be missed. Hamas must seize it. I urgently call on
all those who can influence Hamas to do so now. I am grateful to US
President Donald Trump and his Administration for his intense efforts to
end the war. The fact that President Trump is willing to head and chair
the Board of Peace shows how serious he is. I would like to thank the
Arab states in the region and other Muslim countries that are taking on
responsibility and want to facilitate peace in Gaza by providing
resources and concrete support.”

[Indian Prime Minister Narendra
Modi](https://x.com/narendramodi/status/1972862306993242208): “We
welcome President Donald J. Trump’s announcement of a comprehensive plan
to end the Gaza conflict. It provides a viable pathway to long term and
sustainable peace, security and development for the Palestinian and
Israeli people, as also for the larger West Asian region. We hope that
all concerned will come together behind President Trump’s initiative and
support this effort to end conflict and secure peace.”

[Italian Prime Minister Giorgia
Meloni](https://www.governo.it/en/articolo/statement-palazzo-chigi-war-gaza/29895):
“The proposal presented today by the President of the United States,
Donald Trump, may be a turning point in this process, allowing for a
permanent cessation of the hostilities, the immediate release of all the
hostages and full and safe humanitarian access for the civilian
population to be achieved. The Plan, which Italy welcomes, presents an
ambitious project for the stabilisation, reconstruction and development
of the Gaza Strip, with the full involvement of regional partners. In
this context, Italy is ready to do its part, in close coordination with
the United States and European and regional partners, and it thanks
President Trump for the mediation work and his efforts to bring peace to
the Middle East.”

[Japanese Prime Minister Shigeru
Ishiba](https://x.com/shigeruishiba/status/1972964903842611216): “I
highly welcome President @realDonaldTrump’s leadership and efforts to
end Gaza conflict and achieve peace. This is a significant step toward a
two-state solution including a ceasefire, improving the humanitarian
situation, and releasing hostages. We expect all parties concerned to
proceed in accordance with this plan.”

[Kazakh President Kassym-Jomart
Tokayev](https://www.aljazeera.com/news/2025/9/29/trumps-gaza-peace-plan-welcomed-by-arab-and-islamic-countries-the-west#:~:text=President%20Kassym%2DJomart%20Tokayev%E2%80%99s,peace%20in%20the%20region.):
“President Kassym-Jomart Tokayev’s press secretary, Ruslan Zheldibay,
cited him as saying that Astana viewed the plan as a ‘unique opportunity
and a crucial step’ toward resolving the situation in the region.
Zheldibay added that the plan could also strengthen interstate trust and
establish a lasting and just peace in the region.”

[Lebanese President Joseph
Aoun](https://x.com/LBpresidency/status/1972935850246754770): “The
President of the Republic, General Joseph Aoun, announced his welcome of
the plan by U.S. President Donald Trump to stop the war in Gaza. He
commended the efforts made to end the suffering of civilians and the
innocent in the sector, to stop the bloodshed, and to work together for
a stable and prosperous Middle East, based on the principles of human
justice and dignity. Expressing his hope that this plan will gain the
approval of those concerned as soon as possible, the President praises
the realistic approach it adopted in addressing contentious and
problematic issues.”

[New Zealand Minister of Foreign Affairs Winston
Peters](https://x.com/NewZealandMFA/status/1972787287705731175): “In our
speech to the UN General Assembly over the weekend, we said: ‘We
desperately want diplomacy to succeed and we believe it is those
countries with leverage who are most likely to achieve a breakthrough.
That would show global leadership.’ New Zealand therefore welcomes the
United States’ ‘Comprehensive Plan to End the Conflict in Gaza’ as an
example of such global leadership. We urge the parties to seize this
important opportunity to end the conflict and implement the terms of the
proposal fully. New Zealand wants to see an immediate end to this
disastrous conflict.”

[Pakistani Prime Minister Shehbaz
Sharif](https://x.com/CMShehbaz/status/1972670954229698744): “I welcome
President Trump’s 20-point plan to ensure an end to the war in Gaza. I
am also convinced that durable peace between the Palestinian people and
Israel would be essential in bringing political stability and economic
growth to the region. It is also my firm belief that President Trump is
fully prepared to assist in whatever way necessary to make this
extremely important and urgent understanding to become a reality. I laud
President Trump’s leadership and the vital role played by Special Envoy
Steve Witkoff in bringing an end to this war. I also strongly believe
that the implementation of the two state proposal is essential to ensure
lasting peace in the region.”

[Palestinian Authority](https://english.wafa.ps/Pages/Details/161877):
The Palestinian Authority “welcomes the sincere and determined efforts
of President Donald J. Trump to end the war on Gaza and affirms its
confidence in his ability to find a path toward peace. It also
underscores the importance of the partnership with the United States in
achieving peace in the region.”

[Spanish President Pedro
Sanchez](https://x.com/sanchezcastejon/status/1972789740073017360):
“Spain welcomes the peace proposal for Gaza promoted by the United
States. We must put an end to so much suffering. It is time for the
violence to cease, for the immediate release of all the hostages to take
place, and for humanitarian aid to be provided to the civilian
population. The two-State solution, Israel and Palestine, living side by
side in peace and security, is the only possible one.”

[Turkish President Recep Tayyip
Erdogan](https://x.com/RTErdogan/status/1972767991340355960?ref_src=twsrc%5Egoogle%7Ctwcamp%5Eserp%7Ctwgr%5Etweet):
“I commend US President Donald Trump’s efforts and leadership aimed at
halting the bloodshed in Gaza and achieving a ceasefire. Türkiye will
continue to contribute to the process with a view to establishing a just
and lasting peace acceptable to all parties.”

[United Kingdom Prime Minister Keir
Starmer](https://x.com/Keir_Starmer/status/1972790227707232624): “The
new US initiative to deliver an end to the war in Gaza is profoundly
welcome and I am grateful for President Trump’s leadership. We strongly
support his efforts to end the fighting, release the hostages and ensure
the provision of urgent humanitarian assistance for the people of Gaza.
This is our top priority and should happen immediately. We call on all
sides to come together and to work with the US administration to
finalise this agreement and bring it into reality. Hamas should now
agree to the plan and end the misery, by laying down their arms and
releasing all remaining hostages. Together with our partners, we will
continue work to build consensus to put into place a permanent
ceasefire. We are all committed to a collective effort to end the war in
Gaza and deliver a sustainable peace, where Palestinians and Israelis
can live side by side in safety and security.”
