---
date: '2025-10-14'
modified_time: 2025-10-14 15:46:35-04:00
published_time: 2025-10-14 15:46:34-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/articles/2025/10/widespread-acclaim-for-president-trumps-diplomatic-triumph/
tags: articles
title: "Widespread Acclaim for President Trump\u2019s Diplomatic Triumph"
---
 
**President Donald J. Trump’s indomitable resolve and masterful
diplomacy culminated yesterday with the release of all remaining
hostages, an end to the conflict in Gaza, and a robust foundation for
sustainable peace.** Amid whirlwind visits to Israel and Egypt,
President Trump celebrated this generational victory for peace and
heralded a new era for a region long plagued by strife.

<figure>
<img
src="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/10/OCTOBER14.P1_LCF.jpg"
style="width:344px;height:auto" decoding="async"
data-fetchpriority="high" sizes="(max-width: 1001px) 100vw, 1001px"
srcset="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/10/OCTOBER14.P1_LCF.jpg 1001w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/10/OCTOBER14.P1_LCF.jpg?resize=537,600 537w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/10/OCTOBER14.P1_LCF.jpg?resize=768,859 768w"
width="1001" height="1119" />
<img
src="data:image/svg+xml;base64,PHN2ZyBmaWxsPSJub25lIiBoZWlnaHQ9IjEyIiB2aWV3Ym94PSIwIDAgMTIgMTIiIHdpZHRoPSIxMiIgeG1sbnM9Imh0dHA6Ly93d3cudzMub3JnLzIwMDAvc3ZnIj4KPHBhdGggZD0iTTIgMGEyIDIgMCAwIDAtMiAydjJoMS41VjJhLjUuNSAwIDAgMSAuNS0uNWgyVjBIMlptMiAxMC41SDJhLjUuNSAwIDAgMS0uNS0uNVY4SDB2MmEyIDIgMCAwIDAgMiAyaDJ2LTEuNVpNOCAxMnYtMS41aDJhLjUuNSAwIDAgMCAuNS0uNVY4SDEydjJhMiAyIDAgMCAxLTIgMkg4Wm0yLTEyYTIgMiAwIDAgMSAyIDJ2MmgtMS41VjJhLjUuNSAwIDAgMC0uNS0uNUg4VjBoMloiIGZpbGw9IiNmZmYiIC8+Cjwvc3ZnPg==" />
</figure>

**President Trump’s defining global leadership united a diverse,
bipartisan coalition of former Presidents, world leaders, experts,
journalists, and others in widespread praise:**

[ABC News Chief International Correspondent James
Longman](https://x.com/RapidResponse47/status/1978132872495063451): “I
think today what I’ve been mostly struck by is Donald Trump’s sheer
force of personality. There are not many men, not many leaders who can
walk into the Knesset in Israel to such rapturous applause, such a warm
welcome, to clearly know so many members of the Israeli leadership so
personally. He’s been in the weeds on this. Then, less than an hour
later, appear in a room of world leaders — Arab and Muslim leaders — and
have the same kind of warm welcome. It really is his force of nature
which has managed to make this happen.”

[ABC News Chief White House Correspondent Mary
Bruce](https://x.com/CurtisHouck/status/1977848483101974538): “An
amazing accomplishment \[for President Trump\]… the praise is much
deserved. He played a very pivotal role here — an incredibly pivotal
role — in getting this deal across the finish line, in a way that, as he
knows, his predecessor was unable to do.”

[Agence France Presse Journalist Léon
Bruneau](https://www.al-monitor.com/originals/2025/10/major-win-trump-gaza-will-it-stand-test-time#:~:text=US%20President%20Donald%20Trump%20has%20undeniably%20scored%20a%20diplomatic%20victory%20by%20helping%20to%20broker%20a%20truce%20for%20Gaza%2C%20but%20the%20path%20to%20the%20lasting%20peace%20he%20says%20he%20wants%20for%20the%20Middle%20East%20is%20littered%20with%20obstacles.):
“US President Donald Trump has undeniably scored a diplomatic victory by
helping to broker a truce for Gaza.”

[NBC Nightly News Host Tom
Llamas](https://x.com/RapidResponse47/status/1977888589133250851): “A
remarkable diplomatic achievement.”

[NBC News Chief International Correspondent Keir
Simmons](https://www.nbcnews.com/world/middle-east/live-blog/israel-hamas-gaza-ceasfire-hostages-live-updates-rcna237201/rcrd90745?canonicalCard=true):
“Trump left Egypt after a stunning display of personal and presidential
power.”

[NBC News Chief White House Correspondent Peter
Alexander](https://x.com/RapidResponse47/status/1977912823574323549):
“The President’s name echoing Israel’s parliament as he touted his
landmark diplomatic success.”

[NBC News National Security Editor David
Rhode](https://mms.tveyes.com/transcript.asp?StationID=205&DateTime=10/13/2025%205:16:00%20AM&playclip=true&pbc=search%3a%2b(credit)):
“It’s to President Trump’s credit. He brought more pressure, again, as I
said earlier, on Prime Minister Netanyahu than any other American
President has to make this moment happen. He’s very personally committed
to hostages.”

[CBS Evening News Co-Host Tom
Dickerson](https://x.com/RapidResponse47/status/1977919259339588052):
“There is more hope for peace in the Middle East tonight than there has
been for a very long time… This is the first phase of the Trump Peace
Plan.”

[*Los Angeles Times* Washington Bureau Chief Michael
Wilner](https://www.latimes.com/politics/story/2025-10-13/trump-celebration-victory-lap-in-the-middle-east-gaza-israel#:~:text=a%20significant%20U.S.%20diplomatic%20achievement%20that%20has%20ended%20hostilities%20in%20Gaza%20after%20two%20brutal%20years%20of%20war):
“A significant U.S. diplomatic achievement that has ended hostilities in
Gaza after two brutal years of war.”

[MSNBC Co-Host Joe
Scarborough](https://x.com/RapidResponse47/status/1978072236067041653):
“Just an extraordinary day, and unlike I think any day I’ve ever seen,
certainly coming out of the Middle East.”

[NBC News Senior National Political Reporter Jonathan
Allen](https://www.nbcnews.com/politics/politics-news/trump-victory-lap-gaza-peace-deal-politics-desk-rcna237409#:~:text=%E2%80%94%20Adam%20Wollner-,Trump%20takes%20a%20victory%20lap%20as%20Gaza%20peace%20deal%20is%20signed,-Analysis%20by%20Jonathan):
“What is clear today is that the remaining living Hamas-held hostages
have been released, Israeli defense forces have pulled back to defensive
positions, more aid is making its way into Gaza, and the United States —
with Trump leading the way — is at the center of an international
coalition dedicating itself to maintaining peace and rebuilding Gaza.
It’s hard to find political leaders in the U.S., or elsewhere, who think
those are bad outcomes.”

[Sky News U.S. Correspondent Mark
Stone](https://news.sky.com/story/trump-has-achieved-something-remarkable-but-will-his-goldfish-attention-span-stay-the-course-13449797):
“The day was also an unquestionable and game-changing geopolitical
achievement. Trump stopped the war, he stopped the killing, he forced
Hamas to release all the hostages, he demanded Israel to free prisoners
held without any judicial process, he enabled aid to be delivered to
Gaza, and he committed everyone to a roadmap, of sorts, ahead. He did
all that and more. He also made the Israel-Palestine conflict, which the
world has ignored for decades, a cause that European and Middle Eastern
nations are now committed to invest in. No one, it seems, can ignore
Trump. Love him or loathe him, those are remarkable achievements.”

[*The Wall Street Journal* Reporters Robbie Gramer and Ian
Lovett](https://www.wsj.com/world/trump-ukraine-russia-israel-hamas-peace-deal-19456632?gaa_at=eafs&gaa_n=ASWzDAjoNCkYyhxI1JvTdGjmg2VWLQMTTnjxgX4_iPLWhf1cnPx6WjccTz0TCJCEEpM%3D&gaa_ts=68ee60cc&gaa_sig=IhNku92899CfxDdLZlbSNIA64IxYYbGaKVmAnoIrg3ucZSkOsgV038-TRMcv_M1fNALNF8rCzWLJFML-WaMW3g%3D%3D#:~:text=President%20Trump%20scored%20a%20major%20foreign%2Dpolicy%20win%20in%20Gaza%20by%20brokering%20the%20release%20of%20hostages%20from%20captivity%20and%20securing%20an%20end%20to%20the%20fighting%20between%20Israel%20and%20Hamas.):
“President Trump scored a major foreign-policy win in Gaza by brokering
the release of hostages from captivity and securing an end to the
fighting between Israel and Hamas.”

[*The Washington Post* Editorial
Board](https://www.washingtonpost.com/opinions/2025/10/13/gaza-israel-trump-netanyahu-hamas-ceasefire/):
“In a region where the United States has had little diplomatic success
in recent decades, the president can fairly claim a generational
accomplishment.”

[*The Washington Post* Intelligence Lead Global Security Analyst Josh
Rogin](https://transcripts.cnn.com/show/cnap/date/2025-10-13/segment/01):
“Credit to Trump for realizing that America actually has the power to
pressure both the Arab countries and Israel to do things that are in
their shared interest — and that’s a good thing.”

[Former President Joe
Biden](https://x.com/JoeBiden/status/1977876858310992109): “I commend
President Trump and his team for their work to get a renewed ceasefire
deal over the finish line.”

[Former President Bill
Clinton](https://x.com/BillClinton/status/1977805296044249506):
“President Trump and his administration, Qatar, and other regional
actors deserve great credit for keeping everyone engaged until the
agreement was reached.”

[Former Vice President Mike
Pence](https://x.com/Mike_Pence/status/1977774803290616205): “All 20
living hostages are home thanks to the steadfast leadership of President
Donald Trump and I join voices across America, Israel and around the
world commending our president for bringing us to this historic day. Mr.
President, your relentless pursuit of peace and steadfast support for
Israel brought about this day of joy and relief for Israeli families and
all who have suffered in the aftermath of the terrorist attack by Hamas
on October 7th. Thanks to your leadership, the people of Israel and the
Middle East are now on the path to what we pray will be a just and
lasting peace. God Bless You President @realDonaldTrump”

[Former Vice President Kamala
Harris](https://www.foxnews.com/politics/kamala-harris-commends-the-president-middle-east-statement-omits-trumps-name):
“Through diplomacy and persistence, today is an important first step
toward a more hopeful future. I commend the leaders and partners whose
efforts made this agreement possible, including the President and his
team.”

[Former Speaker of the House Newt
Gingrich](https://www.foxnews.com/media/newt-gingrich-praises-trumps-magical-diplomacy-historic-middle-east-peace-accord):
“It’s an extraordinary moment. Israel has been embattled for almost its
entire — nearly 80 years — of existence, and suddenly Donald Trump comes
along, changes the whole game. No American president has done anything
like this.”

[Former Obama Secretary of Defense and CIA Director Leon
Panetta](https://x.com/RapidResponse47/status/1977818443606048927):
“This achievement — and it is a significant achievement — would not have
happened without United States leadership. President Trump deserves a
lot of credit for bringing the parties together.”

[Former Biden National Security Adviser Jake
Sullivan](https://x.com/Jules31415/status/1977731044796477938): “I give
credit to President Trump. I give credit to Witkoff and Kushner and
Rubio. These are hard jobs… and to get to something like today takes a
village, and it takes determination and really hard work.”

[Former U.S. Ambassador to the UN Nikki
Haley](https://x.com/NikkiHaley/status/1977710760236056959+): “After two
long years, we can finally breathe a sigh of relief. This is the day the
Lord has made; We will rejoice and be glad in it. God Bless Israel. God
Bless the United States. Congratulations to President Trump and his team
for paving the way to peace.”

[Former U.S. Ambassador to Israel Jack
Lew](https://transcripts.cnn.com/show/ebo/date/2025-10-13/segment/01):
“I’m trying to be very, very fair in giving praise where praise is due.
I think without President Trump, this wouldn’t have happened. It may be
through a style that is uncomfortable to many of us, but nonetheless,
it’s due to his personal involvement, and I hope he continues to remain
involved in a way that keeps this process moving forward — because I
think it’s necessary.”

[Former National Security Council Coordinator for the Middle East and
North Africa Brett
McGurk](https://x.com/CurtisHouck/status/1977836523178369227): “It’s
extraordinary day… I don’t think this deal could have come together
without what’s happened over the last, really, the last ten months. The
war in Iran — 12 Day War in Iran in June — was a strategic balance of
power shifter in the region… There’s nothing like U.S. presidential
leadership, and we saw that today. There’s a reason to be hopeful
today.”

[Former National Security Council Chief of Staff Fred
Fleitz](https://www.wsj.com/world/trump-ukraine-russia-israel-hamas-peace-deal-19456632?gaa_at=eafs&gaa_n=ASWzDAjoNCkYyhxI1JvTdGjmg2VWLQMTTnjxgX4_iPLWhf1cnPx6WjccTz0TCJCEEpM%3D&gaa_ts=68ee60cc&gaa_sig=IhNku92899CfxDdLZlbSNIA64IxYYbGaKVmAnoIrg3ucZSkOsgV038-TRMcv_M1fNALNF8rCzWLJFML-WaMW3g%3D%3D#:~:text=%E2%80%9CThis%20gives%20Trump%20enormous%20leverage%20to%20solve%20other%20major%20conflicts%2C%E2%80%9D%20said%20Fred%20Fleitz%2C%20who%20was%20a%20senior%20National%20Security%20Council%20official%20during%20the%20first%20term.%20%E2%80%9CHe%E2%80%99s%20now%20proven%20himself%20as%20an%20effective%20arbiter%20and%20peacemaker.%E2%80%9D):
“This gives Trump enormous leverage to solve other major conflicts. He’s
now proven himself as an effective arbiter and peacemaker.”

[Center for Strategic and International Studies Middle East Program
Director Mona Yacoubian](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3SJVALEjH1o):
“The President does deserve to take a victory lap considering what has
been accomplished today — the release of the last 20 remaining hostages
who were alive are alive in Gaza, the cessation of hostilities for now,
the flowing in of much needed assistance into Gaza. These are important
milestones.”

[Middle East Institute Senior Fellow Paul
Salem](https://transcripts.cnn.com/show/cnr/date/2025-10-14/segment/20):
“The return of these hostages and prisoners for their families and loved
ones is a tremendous achievement. I think President Trump deserves a lot
of credit for that, as well as the Arab mediators that put a lot of
pressure on Hamas.”

[*The Washington Post* columnist David
Ignatius](https://www.foxnews.com/media/msnbc-panel-lauds-trump-over-remarkable-israel-hamas-peace-deal#:~:text=%22I%20can%20remember,wanted%2C%22%20he%20said):
“I can remember in the month or so after Oct. 7, an Israeli senior
official saying to me, ‘We are so disoriented and traumatized by this
war, the United States is going to have to make decisions for us.’ Joe
Biden could never do that, and Donald Trump was able to do it — did it
at the decisive moment.”

[Ignatius](https://www.msnbc.com/chris-jansing-reports/watch/netanyahu-declines-invite-to-mideast-peace-summit-trump-in-attendance-249788997744):
“So this is, as I said, a joyous day. Trump’s right to take credit for
having gotten the world, Israel and Hamas, to this point.”

[Batya
Ungar-Sargon](https://nypost.com/2025/10/13/opinion/how-trumps-america-first-doctrine-worked-a-mideast-miracle/):
“President Donald Trump has performed nothing short of a miracle by
halting the war in Gaza and securing the release of 20 precious souls
who had been languishing in Hamas captivity since Oct. 7.”

[Presidential Historian Joe
Meacham](https://www.foxnews.com/media/trump-lauded-msnbc-liberal-media-figures-securing-israel-peace-deal#:~:text=we%20should%20make%20no%20mistake%20about%20this%3A%20This%20is%20a%20victory%20for%20President%20Trump%20and%20for%20those%20who%20wish%20that%20we%20can%20govern%20ourselves%20at%20home%2C%20and%20around%20the%20world%2C%20not%20simply%20by%20brute%20force%2C%20but%20by%20ideas%20and%20civilized%20norms.%22):
“We should make no mistake about this: This is a victory for President
Trump and for those who wish that we can govern ourselves at home, and
around the world, not simply by brute force, but by ideas and civilized
norms.”

[Presidential Historian Mark
Updegrove](https://x.com/CurtisHouck/status/1977849902878032081): “This
is a big breakthrough for Donald Trump. This is a this is an important
step forward.”

[Rachael Bade](https://x.com/rachaelmbade/status/1977724521294557610):
“Quite the achievement from President Trump. No doubt. The wall to wall
coverage, and now videos of the hostages being reunited w/ their
families, is incredibly moving. A nightmare for these folks, finally
over.”

[CNN Panelist Scott
Jennings](https://x.com/RapidResponse47/status/1978103812553331128): “As
an American, my heart couldn’t be more full. The United States of
America today in its President, Donald Trump, is at the forefront of the
most important thing going on in this world — the release of these
hostages and the possibility of a standing peace in the Middle East,
where there simply just hasn’t been any. And so as an American, the fact
that we’re leading this effort, that we’re leading this coalition, that
the President was able to bring the Arab states together, to get
Netanyahu and that relationship they have, in line enough to pull this
off — I mean, it makes my heart so full that this is the power of the
United States of America.”

[Patrick Bet-David](https://www.foxnews.com/video/6382706271112):
“\[President Trump\] got it done… This is a monumental moment for the
world.”

[Rachel
Campos-Duffy](https://x.com/foxandfriends/status/1977721491090190459):
“It’s Donald Trump who’s the peacemaker — and he’s doing it, as he said,
through strength. But it’s not just strength; it’s about a real estate
guy who knows, as you guys just mentioned, human nature, knows how to
make a deal, knows how to use relationships to make those deals.”

[General Jack Keane
(Ret.)](https://x.com/RapidResponse47/status/1978113992032661663): \[Our
adversaries\] see “the strength of the United States and see the United
States’ indispensable leadership on the world stage — something that
they’re trying to depose — and President Trump has strengthened it right
in front of their eyes.”

[K.T.
McFarland](https://www.foxnews.com/opinion/kt-mcfarland-how-trumps-relentless-middle-east-gamble-finally-flipped-script):
“Only Donald J. Trump could have done this. His dogged determination,
endless energy and willingness to turn conventional wisdom on its head
made the difference. Blessed are the peacemakers.”

[Former NATO Supreme Allied Commander Admiral James Stavridis
(Ret.)](https://x.com/TheArenaCNN/status/1977844669703659960): “I, for
one, was very happy to hear Mr. Witkoff — who gets, I think, a ton of
credit — alongside the President and Jared Kushner for a wonderful day
today.”

[Legal Scholar Alan
Dershowitz](https://www.nysun.com/article/dershowitz-trumps-peace-plan-succeeds-because-of-israels-military-victories):
“President Trump’s brilliant diplomacy has resulted in freeing the
hostages and implementing a cease-fire. If the truce persists, it will
be a great accomplishment and an important step toward peace — if only a
cold peace — in the region. It might also provide a stepping stone to a
more enduring and somewhat warmer peace. Mr. Trump deserves enormous
credit for his role in putting together a coalition of Arab and Muslim
states and in pressuring both sides to accept what they each
understandably regard as compromises.”

[Republican Jewish
Coalition](https://x.com/RJC/status/1977748387530240440): “An historic
address for the ages, cementing @POTUS Donald J. Trump’s enduring legacy
as the most pro-Israel President in U.S. history, and as the Peacemaker
President. God bless America, God bless Israel, and God bless the
U.S.-Israel alliance.”

[Heritage
Foundation](https://x.com/Heritage/status/1977678486891299004):
“President Trump and his administration have brought new hope for
lasting peace in the Middle East and for Israel.”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Leaders from across the world also praised the historic achievement:**

[Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu](https://www.youtube.com/live/k4evqTb1YvM?si=iWdrH3aUCgHZScOq&t=8845):
“Donald Trump is the greatest friend that the state of Israel has ever
had in the White House. No American President has ever done more for
Israel and as I said in Washington, it ain’t even close. It’s really not
a match. Mr. President, today, we welcome you here to thank you for your
pivotal leadership in putting forward a proposal that got the backing of
almost the entire world — a proposal that brings all our hostages home.
A proposal that ends the war by achieving all our objectives. A proposal
that opens the door to an historic expansion of peace in our region and
beyond our region. Mr. President, you are committed to this peace, I am
committed to this peace, and together, Mr. President, we will achieve
this peace. We’ve done it before. We’ve done it before in the Abraham
Accords. And we’ll do it again.”

[Israeli Leader of the Opposition Yair
Lapid](https://www.youtube.com/live/k4evqTb1YvM?si=Q2I-pkahnG-NniDx&t=10396):
“Mr. President, you have saved the lives of our hostages — but you have
saved so much more… This is an historic moment and the reminder that
history is shaped by people — it is shaped by those who know the past,
but have the vision to change the future. When you were elected you
declared that you will be the President of peace. You have kept your
word… You, Mr. President, have done the unimagineable. We will be
eternally grateful.”

[Israeli President Isaac
Herzog](https://x.com/Isaac_Herzog/status/1977638220486623739): “The
Israeli people welcome you with so much love and so much gratitude!
Thank you for all you have done to bring our hostages home! Thank you
for your commitment to building a better future of peace in our region!
God bless Israel! God bless America!”

[Israeli Speaker of the Knesset Amir
Ohana](https://www.youtube.com/live/k4evqTb1YvM?si=trVyH4H7Yy0nK7qs&t=7904):
“Mr. President, you stand before the people of Israel not as another
American President, but as a giant of Jewish history — one for whom we
must look back two-and-a-half millennia, into the midst of time, to find
a parallel: Cyrus the Great. You, President Donald J. Trump, are a
colossus who will be enshrined into the pantheon of history. Thousands
of years from now, Mr. President, the Jewish people will remember you.”

[Israeli Ambassador to the U.S. Yechiel
Leiter](https://x.com/yechielleiter/status/1977757367132381313): “A day
history was made. Our hostages were freed from the Hamas dungeons and In
the Knesset, @POTUS Trump delivered a message that echoed in every
heart: ‘I love Israel. I’m with you all the way. God bless you. God
bless the United States of America, and God bless the Middle East.’
Thank you, Mr. President, for your unshakeable friendship and your
historic leadership in this defining moment. Israel loves you back”

[Canadian Prime Minister Mark
Carney](https://x.com/MarkJCarney/status/1977816067872592099): “The
first phase of today’s historic peace plan has been signed, opening a
new chapter for Israelis, Palestinians, and the world. Canada commends
the leadership of President Trump, and leaders of Qatar, Egypt, and
Türkiye for enabling this step toward a just and lasting peace.”

[Egyptian President Abdel Fattah
El-Sisi](https://youtu.be/ylJmesnWbpU?si=cCNUlzJm24PYGhHG&t=513): “On
behalf of all Egyptians and peace lovers around the world, we salute
with appreciation and respect for this unprecedented and momentous
accomplishment. I’ve been very confident that \[President Trump\] is the
only one that is capable of bringing this about and bringing an end to
this war.”

[European Council President Antonio
Costa](https://x.com/eucopresident/status/1977814768636588044): “The
Sharm El-Sheikh Summit marks an important step in the path towards peace
in Gaza — and a brighter future for Palestinians and Israelis. In our
meeting today, together with the international community, I reaffirmed
the EU’s commitment to turn this plan into a lasting success.”

[Indian Prime Minister Narendra
Modi](https://x.com/narendramodi/status/1977741864250819009): “We
welcome the release of all the hostages after more than two years of
captivity. Their freedom is a testament to the courage of their
families, to President Trump’s uncompromising efforts for peace, and to
Prime Minister Netanyahu’s determination. We support President Trump’s
sincere efforts to bring peace to the region.”

[Italian Prime Minister Giorgia
Meloni](https://x.com/GiorgiaMeloni/status/1977651955129266676): “Today
is a historic day. The hostages have been released: an extraordinary
result, the fruit of the determination of international diplomacy and
the implementation of the first part of the Peace Plan of American
President Donald Trump.”

[German Chancellor Friedrich
Merz](https://x.com/bundeskanzler/status/1977742081880727872): “A new
phase of peace and cooperation begins. I would like to thank all
participants of the conference — especially Egyptian President el-Sisi
and U.S. President Donald Trump — for their initiative and commitment.
This achievement is the result of many efforts.”

[Pakistani Prime Minister Shehbaz
Sharif](https://x.com/RapidResponse47/status/1977785429957972276/):
“Peace has been achieved after untiring efforts — efforts led by
President Trump, who is genuinely a man of peace, who has relentlessly
and untiringly worked throughout these months, day in and day out, to
make this world a place to live with peace and prosperity… Mr.
President, I would like to salute you for your exemplary leadership —
visionary leadership — and I think that you’re the man this world needed
most at this point in time.”

[Spanish President Pedro
Sanchez](https://x.com/sanchezcastejon/status/1977797664851869750):
“Today is a day for hope. Spain thanks the efforts of the United States,
Egypt, Qatar, and Turkey in making this possible. A true and lasting
peace cannot be built only on the silence of cannons, but on the voices
of justice and humanity.”

[Turkish President Recep Tayyip
Erdoğan](https://x.com/RTErdogan/status/1976175296232427674): “I hope
that the quadruple declaration we signed together with the President of
the United States, Mr. Trump, the President of Egypt, Mr. Es-Sisi, and
the Emir of Qatar, Mr. Sheikh Tamim, will be a new milestone on the path
to lasting peace in our region.”

[Ukrainian President Volodymyr
Zelenskyy](https://x.com/ZelenskyyUa/status/1977712447373955413): “When
peace is achieved for one part of the world, it brings more hope for
peace in other regions where life is still under threat. In Ukraine, we
welcome all the efforts that have led to today’s outcome for the Middle
East. The hostages have been freed, and the war in Gaza is coming to an
end. This is truly an extraordinary event. The leadership and
determination of President Trump @POTUS have worked, and it is important
that all the necessary help has come from countries and many people who
have real influence. We are working so that the day of peace comes for
Ukraine as well. Russian aggression remains the last global source of
destabilization, and if a ceasefire and peace have been achieved for the
Middle East, the leadership and determination of global actors can
certainly work for us too, in Ukraine, in Europe. And it can be done.
Terror always loses when global unity is strong enough. I thank everyone
who contributes to peace!”

[United Kingdom Prime Minister Keir
Starmer](https://x.com/Keir_Starmer/status/1977816327646806285):
“President Trump, this is your achievement. I thank you for your
tireless efforts to deliver this moment. The UK stands ready to support
a full implementation of the peace plan.”

[ASEAN Foreign
Ministers](https://asean.org/wp-content/uploads/2025/10/ASEAN-FMs-Statement-on-the-Agreement-on-the-First-Phase-of-the-Gaza-Peace-Plan-FINAL-14-OCT-2025.pdf):
“We welcome the agreement reached between the Islamic Resistance
Movement (Hamas) and Israel on the first phase of the US President
Donald J. Trump’s ‘Comprehensive Plan to End the Gaza Conflict’
announced in Sharm El-Sheikh, Egypt on 8 October 2025 with a view to
achieving a permanent end of hostilities. We commend President Trump for
his continued leadership and sustained efforts to end the war in Gaza.
We further appreciate the important role and collective efforts of the
Arab Republic of Egypt, the State of Qatar and the Republic of Türkiye,
as well as other partners in facilitating the mediation and
implementation of the comprehensive plan. We acknowledge that this
development marks a crucial step towards ending the conflict.”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**President Trump’s announcement of the historic Gaza Peace Deal last
week also drew widespread praise:**

[ABC News Chief Global Affairs Correspondent Martha
Raddatz](https://x.com/JasonJournoDC/status/1976265436946743606):
“There’s no question that if this goes as planned, if we see those
remaining hostages freed and Israel begin its withdraw, it is a
remarkable achievement and President Trump most certainly deserves
credit for his role. He has done this through diplomacy, pressure, and
the sheer force of his personality and persistence.”

[ABC News White House Correspondent Selina
Wang](https://x.com/RapidResponse47/status/1976121202880971221): “This
is an enormous moment for the world, but also for this Administration —
a BIG win for the President, who has been very personally involved in
this.”

[ABC Chief Foreign Correspondent Ian
Pannell](https://x.com/RapidResponse47/status/1976075789050556562):
“Make no mistake: it looks like President Trump has actually pulled off
something here that many presidents before him have failed to do.”

[CNN Jerusalem Correspondent Jeremy
Diamond](https://x.com/RapidResponse47/status/1976068804385161389): “I
just need to underscore what an enormous moment this is for so many
people in this region — for the people of Gaza who have endured two
years of war, for the families of these 48 remaining hostages who have
endured two years of absolute agony. This is a watershed moment.”

[CNN’s Abby
Phillip](https://www.foxnews.com/media/trump-lauded-msnbc-liberal-media-figures-securing-israel-peace-deal):
“Honestly, it’s not unfair to say, if President Obama is going to write
a whole post about a peace deal, maybe he should acknowledge the
president who brokered it.”

[Fox News Channel’s Laura
Ingraham](https://x.com/RapidResponse47/status/1976064763642646761):
“Donald Trump the peacemaker strikes again.”

[NBC News White House Correspondent Yamiche
Alcindor](https://x.com/RapidResponse47/status/1976068269523210359):
“This is a major accomplishment for President Trump… Of course, not just
a victory for President Trump, but really a number of Arab nations… This
is really huge news.”

[Chris
Cillizza](https://x.com/ChrisCillizza/status/1977034575701590080): “If
you can’t give Donald Trump credit for what he did on Hamas and Israel,
you are a totally blind partisan.”

[Former Secretary of State Hillary
Clinton](https://x.com/mdubowitz/status/1977138398633599226): “It’s a
really significant first step and I really commend President Trump and
his administration.”

[Former National Security Council Coordinator for the Middle East and
North Africa Brett
McGurk](https://x.com/RapidResponse47/status/1976081788348006586): “A
momentous day… this is GREAT NEWS. I am trying to hold it together,
honestly. I’ve worked on this issue a very long time.”

[Australian Prime Minister Anthony Albanese and Minister for Foreign
Affairs Penny Wong](https://x.com/AlboMP/status/1976092275206914084):
“Australia welcomes President Trump’s announcement that Israel and Hamas
have signed off the first phase of the plan to bring peace to Gaza. 
After more than two years of conflict, hostages held and a devastating
loss of civilian life, this is a much needed step towards peace. 
Australia has consistently been part of international calls for a
ceasefire, return of the hostages, and the unimpeded flow of aid to
Gaza.  We urge all parties to respect the terms of the plan.  We thank
President Trump for his diplomatic efforts and acknowledge the important
role of Egypt, Qatar and Turkiye in delivering this agreement.”

[Canadian Prime Minister Mark
Carney](https://x.com/MarkJCarney/status/1976100528749998590):
“Congratulations to President Trump for his essential leadership and
thank you to Qatar, Egypt and Türkiye for their tireless work to support
the negotiations. I am relieved that the hostages will soon be reunited
with their families. After years of intense suffering, peace finally
feels attainable. Canada calls on all parties to swiftly implement all
agreed terms and to work towards a just and lasting peace.”

[Chinese Foreign Ministry Spokesperson Guo
Jiakun](https://www.fmprc.gov.cn/mfa_eng/xw/fyrbt/202510/t20251009_11724568.html):
“China hopes that a full and permanent ceasefire in Gaza will be
realized as early as possible, the humanitarian crisis will be
effectively eased, and tensions in the region will be diffused.”

[Egyptian President Abdel Fattah
el-Sisi](https://www.presidency.eg/en/%D9%82%D8%B3%D9%85-%D8%A7%D9%84%D8%A3%D8%AE%D8%A8%D8%A7%D8%B1/%D8%A3%D8%AE%D8%A8%D8%A7%D8%B1-%D8%B1%D8%A6%D8%A7%D8%B3%D9%8A%D8%A9/news9102025/):
“The world is witnessing a historic moment that embodies the triumph of
the will for peace over the logic of war. From Sharm El-Sheikh — the
city of peace and the cradle of dialogue and understanding — an
agreement is reached to establish a ceasefire and end the war in Gaza
after two years of suffering and woes, in accordance with the peace plan
proposed by President Trump and under the auspices of Egypt, Qatar, and
the United States of America. This agreement does not only close the
chapter of war; it also opens the door of hope for the peoples of the
region for a future defined by justice and stability.”

[French President Emmanuel
Macron](https://x.com/EmmanuelMacron/status/1976186371162148918): “Great
hope for the hostages and their families, for the Palestinians in Gaza,
and for the entire region. I welcome the agreement reached overnight for
the release of the hostages and the ceasefire in Gaza, and I commend the
efforts of President @realDonaldTrump, as well as the Qatari, Egyptian,
and Turkish mediators who helped make it happen. I call on all parties
to strictly uphold its terms. This agreement must mark the end of the
war and the beginning of a political solution based on the two-state
solution. France stands ready to contribute to this goal. We will
discuss it this afternoon in Paris with our international partners.”

[German Chancellor Friedrich
Merz](https://x.com/bundeskanzler/status/1976199195343323486): “The
first steps of the agreement between Israel and Hamas are encouraging.
They offer new hope – for the hostages and their families, for the
people in Gaza, and for the entire region. For the first time in a long
while, there is a real prospect of peace in the region. We call on all
parties to keep their promises, end the war, and pave the way for
lasting peace. Germany will continue to firmly support this process.”

[Qatari Minister of State Mohammed bin Abdulaziz
Al-Khulaifi](https://x.com/majedalansari/status/1976058667645440032):
“The mediators announce that tonight an agreement was reached on all the
provisions and implementation mechanisms of the first phase of the Gaza
ceasefire agreement, which will lead to ending the war, the release of
Israeli hostages and Palestinian prisoners, and the entry of aid…
Genuine peace begins with dialogue that puts human dignity first. The
new phase of the agreement offers hope for lasting calm in Gaza and
highlights the power of joint mediation grounded in reason, not
escalation.”

[Spanish President Pedro
Sanchez](https://x.com/sanchezcastejon/status/1976181776406991055): “The
Government of Spain welcomes the news coming from the Middle East and
trusts that this may be the beginning of a just and lasting peace. Now
is the time to engage in dialogue, assist the civilian population, and
look to the future. With hope. But also with justice and with memory. So
that the atrocities experienced are never repeated again.”

[Turkish President Recep Tayyip
Erdoğan](https://x.com/RTErdogan/status/1976175296232427674): “I am
greatly pleased that the Hamas-Israel negotiations, conducted in Sharm
El-Sheikh with contributions from Türkiye, have resulted in a ceasefire
in Gaza. I extend my special thanks to U.S. President Mr. Trump, who
demonstrated the necessary political will to encourage the Israeli
government toward the ceasefire, as well as to our brotherly countries
Qatar and Egypt, which provided significant support in reaching the
agreement.”

[United Kingdom Prime Minister Keir
Starmer](https://x.com/Keir_Starmer/status/1976169698791395611): “I
welcome the news that a deal has been reached on the first stage of
President Trump’s peace plan for Gaza. This is a moment of profound
relief that will be felt all around the world, but particularly for the
hostages, their families, and for the civilian population of Gaza, who
have all endured unimaginable suffering over the last two years. I am
grateful for the tireless diplomatic efforts of Egypt, Qatar, Türkiye
and the United States, supported by our regional partners, in securing
this crucial first step. This agreement must now be implemented in full,
without delay, and accompanied by the immediate lifting of all
restrictions on life-saving humanitarian aid to Gaza. We call on all
parties to meet the commitments they have made, to end the war, and to
build the foundations for a just and lasting end to the conflict and a
sustainable path to a long-term peace. The UK will support these crucial
immediate steps and the next stage of talks to ensure the full
implementation of the peace plan.”

[UN Secretary-General Antonio
Guterres](https://x.com/antonioguterres/status/1976076944396485056): “I
welcome the announcement of an agreement to secure a ceasefire & hostage
release in Gaza, based on the proposal put forward by @POTUS. I commend
the diplomatic efforts of the United States, Qatar, Egypt & Türkiye in
brokering this desperately needed breakthrough. I urge all concerned to
abide fully by the terms of the agreement. All hostages must be released
in a dignified manner. A permanent ceasefire must be secured. The
fighting must stop once & for all. Immediate & unimpeded entry of
humanitarian supplies & essential commercial materials into Gaza must be
ensured. The suffering must end. The @UN will support the full
implementation of the agreement & will scale up the delivery of
sustained & principled humanitarian relief, and we will advance recovery
& reconstruction efforts in Gaza.”
