---
date: '2025-10-07'
published_time: 2025-10-07 14:46:54-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/articles/2025/10/president-trump-revives-ambler-road-project-to-unlock-alaskas-critical-minerals-boost-economy/
tags: articles
title: "President Trump Revives Ambler Road Project to Unlock Alaska\u2019s Critical\
  \ Minerals, Boost Economy"
---
 
**Yesterday, President Donald J. Trump** [**approved the
appeal**](https://alaskabeacon.com/2025/10/06/trump-approves-appeal-for-ambler-road-project-reversing-biden-administrations-rejection/)
**for Alaska’s** [**Ambler Road
Project**](https://www.whitehouse.gov/fact-sheets/2025/10/fact-sheet-president-donald-j-trump-approves-ambler-road-project-to-unlock-alaskas-mineral-potential/)**,
a pivotal 211-mile industrial road connecting the Dalton Highway to
northwest Alaska’s vast deposits of critical minerals.** The decision
reverses a Biden-era rejection, advancing American energy dominance and
reducing reliance on foreign adversaries by securing resources essential
for national security, economic growth, defense, and technology.

**The move was quickly hailed by Alaskan leaders and mining
organizations as a massive win for job growth, regional prosperity, and
strengthened domestic supply chains:**

[Gov. Mike
Dunleavy](https://x.com/GovDunleavy/status/1975313424268792108): “This
decision will unleash development opportunities, create new jobs for
Alaskans and secure access to strategic minerals.  Thank you @POTUS”

[Sen. Dan
Sullivan](https://www.sullivan.senate.gov/newsroom/press-releases/alaska-delegation-commends-president-trumps-re-approval-of-the-ambler-access-project):
“I want to thank President Trump and his team, especially Secretary of
Interior Doug Burgum, for granting this appeal under Section 1106 of
ANILCA, rolling back the Biden administration’s egregious and lawless
denial of a right-of-way for the Ambler Access Project. This appeal is
great news for Alaska, for jobs for our workers, for American national
security, for reducing our country’s critical mineral dependence on
China, and for the incredible Alaskans of the region. I just spoke by
phone with the President about this important announcement, and he
reiterated his strong commitment to advancing the Ambler Access Project,
and so many other important projects for our state, including the King
Cove Road and the Alaska LNG Project. I’ve always said the Ambler Access
Project has to be done right, with close consultation with Alaska Native
and community leaders and with respect for our environment and
subsistence way of life. We were able to make great progress on these
fronts under the first Trump administration, but the Biden
administration came in and killed this project and the thousands of
good-paying jobs, economic opportunity, and improved cost of living
across the region that would come with it, subverting the clear intent
of ANILCA. I’m glad to see another critically important project for our
state’s economy and working families being put back on track.”

[Sen. Lisa
Murkowski](https://www.murkowski.senate.gov/press/release/alaska-delegation-commends-president-trumps-re-approval-of-the-ambler-access-project):
“I thank President Trump for issuing this determination and getting the
Ambler project back on track after it was derailed by politics at the
end of the Biden administration. Congress enshrined this project’s
approval into federal law in 1980 as part of a ‘grand bargain’ to
conserve more than 100 million acres of land in Alaska, and it has more
national significance now than ever. The President’s re-approval will
unlock a world-class mining district, deliver quality-of-life benefits
for communities in the region, and help grow Alaska’s economy. It will
also improve our national security by strengthening our mineral security
and enabling us to produce more of our most important resources here at
home. I look forward to federal agencies promptly re-issuing permits and
authorizations so that the Ambler access project can finally proceed,
and to working with the local people and Alaska Native Corporations to
ensure a successful project.”

[Rep. Nick
Begich](https://begich.house.gov/media/press-releases/congressman-begich-commends-president-trumps-action-advance-ambler-road-access):
“The Ambler Mining District is a strategic asset for Alaska and an
important pathway to critical mineral development in the United States,”
said Congressman Begich. “By advancing this access, we are creating new
opportunities for Alaskans while strengthening America’s supply chain
and reducing dependence on foreign adversaries for our critical mineral
needs. I applaud the President’s decision to support this appeal, and I
look forward to working with the Administration, state leaders, and
Alaska Native communities to ensure this project moves forward in a way
that benefits all Alaskans.”

[Alaska Miners Association Executive Director Deantha
Skibinski](https://www.alaskaminers.org/_files/ugd/beae26_24cf80b2b48f43d8a3a301e2b324b116.pdf):
“We want to thank President Trump for overturning the harmful 2024
decision on the Ambler Road Project and prioritizing access to Alaska’s
critical minerals. The Biden administration’s nearly unprecedented ‘no
action’ alternative on the Ambler Road project and flat refusal to grant
access that was promised in the Alaska National Interest Land Claims Act
(ANILCA) was unconscionable. With stable policies in place, Alaska now
stands ready to supply the nation with the minerals critical to our
national security and our economy.”

[Ambler Metals Managing Director Kaleb
Froehlich](https://www.amblermetals.com/press-release/ambler-metals-welcomes-presidential-approval-of-ambler-road-permits-through-anilca):
“We thank President Trump, his administration and members of Congress
for recognizing the importance of the Ambler Road to Alaska and to the
nation. This road will help secure the critical minerals our country
needs for economic competitiveness and national defense, while also
delivering meaningful benefits here at home. For rural Alaskans, this
road represents opportunity, good-paying jobs, essential revenues for
remote communities, and a chance to build a more resilient local
economy. It’s a pathway to both national strength and regional
prosperity.”

[American Pacific Mining Corp. CEO Warwick
Smith](https://americanpacificmining.com/news-releases-2025/american-pacific-congratulates-trilogy-metals-on-ambler-project-milestone/):
“We extend our sincere congratulations to Trilogy Metals and to Alaskans
that have worked for years to see responsible development advance. Under
President Trump, there is real momentum for resource development in
Alaska. We are optimistic about the path ahead for Palmer and all
projects contributing to America’s critical minerals supply.”

[South32 CEO Graham
Kerr](https://www.south32.net/docs/default-source/media-releases/south32-media-release---south32-backs-u-s-government-move-to-advance-critical-minerals-in-alaska.pdf?sfvrsn=aa977641_1):
“We see great value in the U.S. Government’s intention to develop the
Ambler Mining District. It is our aim to unlock the potential we see in
this region, and secure critical mineral supply chains for the United
States and create enduring economic activity and shared value for
Alaska, particularly for communities in the surrounding region.”

[Trilogy Metals President and CEO Tony
Giardini](https://trilogymetals.com/news-and-media/news/trilogy-metals-applauds-president-trumps-decision-to-grant-permits-for-the-ambler-access-project-to-enable-the-development-of/):
“This landmark decision is a turning point for Trilogy and for the
future of domestic critical mineral development in the United States.
The Ambler Road is not just a pathway to economic growth in Alaska –
it’s a strategic asset for the United States. With the backing of the
President and federal agencies, we are confident this project will move
forward in a way that respects both the land and the people who call it
home.”

[Valhalla Metals Chairman Rick Van
Nieuwenhuyse](https://www.newsfilecorp.com/release/269469/Valhalla-Metals-Celebrates-President-Trumps-Approval-to-Reverse-a-Bidenera-Decision-and-Grant-Permits-for-the-Ambler-Access-Road?utm_source=dlvr.it&utm_medium=linkedin):
“We are excited that the Trump Administration has reversed the misguided
Biden Administration’s ‘No Action Alternative’ finding for the Ambler
Access Road Supplemental EIS. The Biden Administration decision was
contrary to the clear directives set out in ANILCA. Using Section 1106
to right a wrong decision is exactly what Congress intended when ANILCA
was passed into law 45 years ago. Thank you President Trump! We can now
restart our exploration efforts to expand the known resources at the Sun
deposit.”
