---
date: '2022-08-12'
published_time: 2022-08-12 16:23:15-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2022/08/12/on-the-record-press-call-by-kurt-campbell-deputy-assistant-to-the-president-and-coordinator-for-the-indo-pacific/
tags: press-briefings
title: "On-the-Record Press Call by Kurt Campbell, Deputy Assistant to the President\
  \ and Coordinator for the\_Indo-Pacific"
---
 
Via Teleconference

12:44 P.M. EDT  
  
MODERATOR:  Thank you, everyone, and thanks for joining.  So I think you
all saw the invite that went out for the call.  I know some of you have
been asking for the latest on China and Taiwan, so what we wanted to do
today was set up a quick call sort of laying out our thinking on the
past couple of weeks, what we see happening over the longer term, and,
of course, to answer a few questions.  
  
Just for the ground rules, this call is on the record.  It is embargoed
— the contents of the call are embargoed until the end of the call.  And
our speaker on the call is Kurt Campbell, who is Deputy Assistant to the
President and Coordinator for the Indo-Pacific.  
  
And my last note on this, before I turn it over to Kurt — I know there’s
been some trouble with the dial-in.  We have a number that you can call
in after the call is over to relisten to the call, and we’ll also have a
transcript out for everybody.  So, again, apologies for that
inconvenience.  
  
With that, I’ll turn it over to Kurt to get us started, and then we’ll
take as many questions as we can.   
  
Kurt, over to you.  
  
MR. CAMPBELL:  Thanks very much.  And good afternoon, everyone.  As part
of our ongoing public engagements on China and Taiwan and after an
eventful week last week, I want to spend just a few minutes providing a
brief update today on where we are and how the United States is
approaching China’s provocative behavior, and then answer your
questions.  
  
And let me just cut right to the chase.  Here’s how we see it: Last
week, the PRC used the visit of a U.S. Speaker of the House — a visit
that is consistent with our One China policy and is not unprecedented —
as a pretext to launch an intensified pressure campaign against Taiwan
and to try to change the status quo, jeopardizing peace and stability
across the Taiwan Strait and in the broader region.  
  
China has overreacted, and its actions continue to be provocative,
destabilizing, and unprecedented.  China launched missiles into the
waters around Taiwan.  It declared exclusion zones around Taiwan that
disrupted civilian, air, and maritime traffic.  It has sought to
disregard the centerline between the PRC and Taiwan, which has been
respected by both sides for more than 60 years as a stabilizing feature,
with historic numbers of military crossings over the last week.  It
surrounded Taiwan with more than a dozen warships; even today, several
warships remain around Taiwan.  And it has imposed sanctions on Speaker
Pelosi and her family, and taken coercive economic measures against
Taiwan.  
  
Our response to that behavior was responsible, steady, and resolute.  We
demonstrated that we will not be deterred and made clear to the world
what the PRC was doing.  President <s>Reagan</s> \[Biden\] directed the
USS Ronald Reagan to stay on station as the PRC continued its
provocative activities.  We continue to support Taiwan and our partners,
many of which — the G7, Australia, the UK, the EU, and ASEAN — have also
expressed concern in public statements.  And we’ve reinforced our
ironclad alliances, as we did on August 9th with the joint air force
exercise with Japan near Okinawa.  
  
Throughout these past weeks, the United States has held firm to our
longstanding key objectives: preserving peace and stability in the
Taiwan Strait and the broader Indo-Pacific region.  This is critical to
regional and global security and prosperity.  It’s in all of our
interests, and we are committed to continuing to seek peace and
stability going forward.  
  
That commitment to peace and stability is why our policy towards Taiwan
has remained consistent for decades and across administrations.  We
remain committed to our One China policy, guided by the Taiwan Relations
Act, the Three Joint Communiqués, and the Six Assurances.  We oppose any
unilateral changes to the status quo from either side, and we do not
support Taiwan independence, and we expect cross-Strait differences to
be resolved by peaceful means.  
  
China’s actions are fundamentally at odds with the goal of peace and
stability.  They are part of an intensified pressure campaign against
Taiwan, which has not ended, and we expect it to continue to unfold in
the coming weeks and months.  The goal of this campaign is clear: to
intimidate and coerce Taiwan and undermine its resilience.  
  
We will continue to take calm and resolute steps to uphold peace and
stability in the face of Beijing’s ongoing efforts to undermine it, and
to support Taiwan in line with our longstanding policy.  
  
These steps, across a range of areas, will unfold over the coming weeks
and months because the challenge is long term.  We will not be reflexive
or knee-jerk; we will be patient and effective.  
  
We’ll continue to fly, sail, and operate where international law allows,
consistent with our longstanding commitment to freedom of navigation,
and that includes conducting standard air and maritime transits through
the Taiwan Strait in the next few weeks.  
  
We will continue to fulfill our commitments under the Taiwan Relations
Act.  That includes supporting Taiwan’s self-defense and maintaining our
own capacity to resist any resort to force or other forms of coercion
that would jeopardize Taiwan’s security, economy, or society.  
  
We’ll continue, consistent with our One China policy, to deepen our ties
with Taiwan, including through continuing to advance our economic and
trade relationship.  For example, we’re developing an ambitious roadmap
for trade negotiations, which we intend to announce in the coming
days.  
  
And we will ensure that our presence, posture, and exercises account for
China’s more provocative and destabilizing behavior, with a view towards
guiding the situation in the Western Pacific towards greater
stability.  
  
There’s more to come in these areas and others in the days and weeks
ahead.  Before I take your questions, I’ll add just a couple more
comments on our dealings with Beijing.   
  
We have and will continue to keep the lines of communication open with
Beijing, and we call on Beijing to reopen those channels it has closed —
not for our sake, but because this is what the world demands of
responsible powers.   
  
Which party chose to cut off channels that enable responsible risk
reduction and crisis communication?  China –while, by contrast, the
United States has continued to reach out and seek to manage the
situation responsibly.  
  
Which party suspended climate talks, which doesn’t punish the United
States but the world?  Again, the answer is China.  The world’s largest
emitter is now refusing to engage in the crucial steps necessary to
stand up to the climate crisis.  This will slow progress as the
international community works towards a successful COP later this
year.  
  
We think these are the wrong choices by China.  
  
Now, to wrap up, what we’re discussing today is not about our One China
policy.  We reaffirm that.  It is about which party is undermining the
status quo that has upheld peace and stability — a peace and stability
that has worked for all.  
  
The international community has made clear that it has an interest in
that peace and stability, and the United States will do our part to
preserve it.  This is not about bilateral U.S.-China dynamics; it’s a
question of what’s in the best interests of the region and what’s in the
best interest of the international community.  
  
I’ll stop there, and I’ll look forward to take your questions.  
  
Thanks, \[Moderator\].  
  
MODERATOR:  Great.  Thanks, Kurt.  Could we please give out the
directions to ask a question?  Thank you.  
  
MR. CAMPBELL:  Hi, Nick.  
  
Q    Thanks very much for doing this.  Two straightforward ones and a
bigger one.  You confirmed the Freedom of Navigation Act that you guys
have announced publicly will not involve an aircraft carrier.  Can you
confirm the Chinese have cut off talks about other topics it hasn’t made
public, including North Korea?  
  
And the big question: You know, you say you don’t accept changes to the
status quo; Beijing openly says it’s creating a new normal.  So what can
you actually do to return the status quo ante?  Thanks.  
  
MR. CAMPBELL:  Well, look, we don’t make any comments about either the
nature of our crossings or the timings across the Taiwan Strait.  So I
have nothing further about Taiwan Strait crossings, Nick.  
  
I think our statement makes clear what our responses will be to China’s
provocative actions to try to alter the status quo, and I think you’ll
see more to come.  
  
What was your second question?  Just if I could ask — I’ sorry, Nick — I
— quickly?  
  
MODERATOR:  Could we re-open Nick’s line?  
  
MR. CAMPBELL:  I’m sorry, Nick.  
  
OPERATOR:  One moment, please.  
  
Mr. Schifrin, if you would press one then zero, once again, please.   
  
MR. CAMPBELL:  Sorry, Nick, I didn’t have my — my pen handy.  So, if you
could — your second question, please?   
  
MODERATOR:  I think — so I’m not sure if Nick was —  
  
OPERATOR:  Here.  
  
MODERATOR:  — able to dial in.  Oh.  
  
OPERATOR:  Yeah, we got his line.  One moment, please.   
  
Mr. Schifrin, your line is open.  
  
Q    The second one was just: Can you confirm the Chinese have cut off
talks on other topics that it hasn’t made public, including on North
Korea?  
  
MR. CAMPBELL:  So, Nick, I would say we do have lines of communication
that are open, but they have made a public statement about areas that
they have suspended talks.  And I don’t have anything further beyond
that.  And we’re still at early stages, and so we do not know if China
is going to take any further actions.  
  
Q    Hi, Kurt.  Thanks a lot.  Good to see you.  
  
MR. CAMPBELL:  Hi, Michael, how are you?  Thank you.  
  
Q    Good.  Thanks.  So, on the question of Taiwan arm sales — I mean,
do you think that the new capabilities formed by the PLA justify a
switch in approach to your arm sales policy towards Taiwan?  I mean,
specifically, there’s been some criticism that the administration has
focused too much on outfitting Taiwan for, say, a full-invasion scenario
at the expense of, like, a blockade scenario.  So, I’m curious, are — is
your thinking on that changing?   
  
And with regard to coordination with allies, is it possible that you
will increase coordination with G7 countries or other Indo-Pacific
allies on this?  Could we see a — you know, some sort of coordinated
Taiwan Strait transits in the future?  Thanks.  
  
MR. CAMPBELL:  Yeah, so — well, first of all, let me just say that what
we’ve seen, over the course of the last year in particular, is an
unprecedented number of allies and partners speak out, both publicly and
in statements, about their interest to seeing the continuance of peace
and stability across the Taiwan Strait.   
  
And as I indicated today, there are a large number of countries that are
keenly interested in preserving that peace and stability.  I’ll leave it
at that, in terms of our consultations and engagements with those
partners, specifically.  
  
As I’ve indicated, the Taiwan Relations Act requires us to provide
appropriate defensive articles and capabilities to Taiwan.  And those
articles are designed to most effectively engage on those defense issues
that are related to the evolving security circumstances that Taiwan
faces.  And so, the kinds of things that you described are indeed taken
into our calculus, and you will see that going forward.  
  
Hi, Ellen.  
  
Q    Hi, Kurt.  I’ve got a question regarding the bilateral
relationship, and then one with respect to China’s actions in Taiwan. 
The Wall Street Journal is reporting that Chinese officials are making
plans for Xi Jinping to travel to the G20 in Bali in November, then to
Bangkok for APEC.  (Inaudible) and perhaps to meet with Biden.  Are you
likewise preparing for the President to meet with Xi?  And would that be
Bali or Bangkok?  
  
And then I have a second question.  Would you like that now or after
you’ve answered that one?  
  
MR. CAMPBELL:  Do you want to just give me the second one, Ellen, so I
have it, and then I’ll — and then I’ll write it down.  Thank you.    
  
Q    Okay, great.  So, China — China clearly has changed or, as you say,
undermined the (inaudible) around Taiwan.  What is your policy goal
given the PLA’s new ops tempo around Taiwan?   
  
And secondly, how are you going to achieve that goal given PLA’s
capabilities and how good they are (inaudible) gray zone squeeze
plays?  
  
MR. CAMPBELL:  Yeah, thanks, Ellen.  Those are good questions.  
  
So, first — on the first question, I can confirm that the two leaders,
when they spoke last, discussed a possible face-to-face meeting during
their recent call and agreed to have their teams follow up to sort out
the specifics.  We don’t have anything further in terms of details on
time or location.   
  
And then to your second question: Look, I tried to lay out clearly that
our policy remains consistent, in terms of taking the necessary steps
both with our own capabilities and working with allies and partners, to
maintain peace and stability across the Taiwan Strait.   
  
And what you’ve seen in the last year and a half is unprecedented
engagement with allies and partners.  Much of that has to do with our
larger goals to maintain peace and stability, and that inevitably
involves evolutions in our deployments, our strategies, and our
engagements.  And I think you’re going to see that continue as we go
forward, Ellen.   
  
Thank you.  
  
MODERATOR:  Great.  Thanks, everyone.  So, again, I’m sorry, we have a
hard stop, so we have to end the call here.  But we will make sure to
get everybody the transcript and the audio link to listen in.   
  
As a reminder, this call was on the record, and the contents of the call
— the embargo will lift on that after this call ends.  Thanks again for
joining.  
  
1:00 P.M. EDT
