---
date: '2022-08-26'
modified_time: 2022-08-26 20:26:15-04:00
published_time: 2022-08-26 20:26:14-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2022/08/26/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-and-deputy-director-of-the-national-economic-council-bharat-ramamurti-august-26-2022/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre and Deputy Director of\
  \ the National Economic Council Bharat Ramamurti, August 26,\_2022"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

1:16 P.M. EDT  
  
     MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Good afternoon.  
  
     Q    Good afternoon.  
  
     MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  Happy Friday.  We’re excited to have
Deputy Director of the National Economic <s>Policy</s> \[Council\]
Bharat Ramamurti here with us again today to discuss the student loan
announcements this week and how they will benefit working middle-class
families.

He’ll have about 20, 25 minutes. I know the in-town pool is going to
have to leave about 1:45-ish, so he’s going to stay with us as long as
possible to take as many questions as he can.  And — and then, after
that, clearly, you guys have to leave, and we have to also continue our
day.  
  
     And with that, Bharat.  Okay, thank you again.  
  
     MR. RAMAMURTI:  Hey, good afternoon.  Good to see you all.  Before
taking questions, I want to just talk a little bit more about the
economic impact of the administration’s student loan plan.  
  
     This plan will lift a large weight off of tens of millions of
middle-class Americans, peoples who — people who came, by and large,
from working families and who are working class now: teachers, nurses,
firefighters, police, members of the military, and more.  
  
     By lifting this weight, we are not only benefiting them and their
families, we are benefiting the communities that they live in and the
economy as a whole.  
  
     So, for example, there’s good evidence that student loan debt makes
it harder for people to start new small businesses.  These relief
actions mean that more middle-class Americans can open more businesses
in their communities.  That means more job opportunities in the years to
come.  
  
     Student loan debt also makes it harder for people to buy a home. 
These actions will mean that more middle-class Americans may be able to
finally afford a down payment, buy a home in the years to come, and
start building wealth that they can pass along to their kids.  
  
     As the President has said, his core economic plan is to strengthen
the middle class because that helps everyone.  And these actions are
targeted right at America’s middle class.  
      
     Nearly 90 percent of people receiving the relief are making under
$75,000 a year.  The extra money for Pell recipients helps provide
additional relief to people who are more likely to have less family
wealth to rely upon.  
  
     And when the President says that he’s committed to growing the
economy from the bottom up and the middle out, he’s serious.  That’s
why, over the course of the last year and a half, we’ve been able to
provide support to small businesses, support to people facing the risk
of eviction or foreclosure, to people at risk of going hungry, and
more.  
  
     It’s why the President’s infrastructure bill is focused on creating
hundreds of thousands of good-paying jobs, nearly 90 percent of which
won’t require a college degree.  And it’s the reason why our economy has
roared back and the unemployment rate now stands at a historic low, even
as the economies of other leading countries are faltering.  
  
     So this plan is working.  And the student loan relief is the next
part in it.  
  
     With that, I also want to address an issue that I know has been
coming up recently, which is the cost of this proposal.  
  
     Our estimate is that the debt relief proposal will reduce average
annual receipts in the student loan program by about $24 billion a year
over the next 10 years.  
  
     So the way to think about this is that because we are providing
debt relief — reducing the outstanding balance for some people,
eliminating it for other people — that means we’re not going to be
collecting certain amount of payments that we otherwise would have been
collecting.  And that total is about $24 billion a year on average over
the next 10 years.  
  
     So let’s put that $24 billion in context.  That represents 1.5
percent of the deficit reduction that we are projecting for this fiscal
year before the announcement.  And it is far less than the $350
billion-plus that we’ve already done in PPP loan forgiveness since last
July.  
  
     Now, consistent with longstanding budget practices and consistent
with the comments that I made on Wednesday here, the official budgetary
score will be produced by the Education Department and the Office of
Management and Budget in the coming weeks.  And, actually, the Office of
Management and Budget is going to be putting out more detail on this
process and how it’s slightly different than the preliminary estimate
that I provided later today.  
  
     So, with that, happy to take questions.  
  
     MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  All right, guys.  We’re going to take as
many as possible.  Go ahead.  
  
     Q    Good morning.  My first question is — thanks for the number —
why was this a number that we didn’t have the past couple of days?  
  
     And then, this is — this modeling is based off of — you said 75
percent of people taking advantage of the program.  If 75 percent of
people — if 25 percent of people aren’t taking advantage of the program,
do you consider that a flaw in the program?  Would you consider the
program a success with that number?  If you could talk us through those
two.  
    

MR. RAMAMURTI:  Sure.  So, look, we — we have to make an assumption
about how many people take advantage of the program in order to provide
this preliminary estimate.  The reason that we chose 75 percent is that
it’s, broadly speaking, in line with the take-up rate of the most
similar Education Department initiative that we could find.  
  
     In other words, there was another Education Department initiative
in the past that was supposed to provide targeted debt relief to a set
of borrowers who were eligible for it.  And roughly 75 percent of the
borrowers in that particular program took advantage of it.  
  
     Now, we are hoping to get as close to 100 percent as possible.  But
we — you know, for the purposes of putting out a preliminary estimate on
this, we had to choose a number.  And we felt like 75 percent was the
most defensible.  
  
     As for why you’re getting it today, you guys asked us for it, so
we’re providing you with information.

Q    And the other —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go –- oh, go ahead.   

  
     Q    So the way you’re explaining where — how this is being paid
for, how — you just went through this is $24 billion per year.  Are you
considering that there was a bit of a — like a — we’re trying to get —
are you still considering this self-paid for — right? — because
mitigation and compensating it for other — in other ways are not
necessarily having internal paysfor for this bill.  So are you still
phrasing this as “it pays for itself,” or are you phrasing it in a
different way?

  
     MR. RAMAMURTI:  What I would say is that, yes, this is paid for; it
is paid for and far more by the amount of deficit reduction that we’re
already on track for this year.  
  
     Like I said, we’re on track for $1.7 trillion in deficit reduction
this year.  That means, practically speaking, compared to the previous
year, 1.7 trillion more dollars are coming into the Treasury than are
going out.  And we’re using a portion of that — a very small portion of
it — to provide relief to middle-class families, consistent with the
President’s plan.  
  
     So, yes, we consider it fully paid for.

  
     MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Peter.  
  
     Q    Bharat, thanks for doing this.  
  
     MR. RAMAMURTI:  Sure.  
  
     Q    The median household income in this country right now is
roughly $67,000, which means that — this is going to go for those up to
$125,000.  Those individuals are already making, individually, almost
twice the median household income in this country.  
  
     What do you say to those critics who say you’re not just helping
the middle class — though I understand 90 percent will be making under
$75,000 — you’re still helping what is a smaller percentage, but a
significant percentage, of individuals who most Americans would view as
making a lot of money?  
  
     MR. RAMAMURTI:  Sure.  So, look, I — you know, in our view, this,
as you noted, nearly 90 percent of the benefits go to people making
under $75,000 a year.  And our view is that the folks that you mentioned
— under $125,000 — they are middle-class families.  And — and I think
that they would widely be considered as such.  
      
     You know — and, look, I want to be totally clear about this — about
this point —  
  
     Q    But, I guess, $125,000 or $250,000 — would you view that as a
middle-class family —  
  
     MR. RAMAMURTI:  Sure.  
  
     Q    — a family that makes under $250,000?

  
     MR. RAMAMURTI:  Absolutely.  Look, the key cutoff here is that
nobody in the top 5 percent, whether they’re — in individual income or
household income — is going to get a dollar.  
  
     And, look, it’s extremely consistent with what the President has
said on the tax side.  Now, on tax side, he said that nobody making
under $400,000 a year should face a tax increase.  
  
     So the economic story of this country over the last couple of
decades, if we’re going to look at it, is that there has been a
relatively small sliver of folks who have done extremely well — the top
1 percent, top 5 percent or so.  And our goal was to make sure that
people below that — the bottom 95 percent — get a little bit more
relief, get a little bit more breathing room.  And that’s exactly what
this policy does.  But, by the way, targeted even more narrowly than
that — primarily, overwhelmingly, to people making under $75,000 a
year.  
  
     Q    And then to follow up, if I can quickly, the White House,
yesterday, was pretty vocal on Twitter, which it isn’t always,
criticizing some of the critics of this program — Marjorie Taylor
Greene, Matt Gaetz among them — saying how much money they received in
PPP loans in the past.  
  
     I think you would agree that there is a difference between a loan
program, as it existed, which was conceived to be — the PPP program that
was conceived to be forgivable, assuming you spent a majority, I think,
80 percent on the payroll, as opposed to these loans, which were for
individuals with the expectation when they made money, they’d be paying
it back.  
  
     So is that a fair comparison, and why?

MR. RAMAMURTI:  Yeah, we absolutely think it’s a fair comparison, and
here’s why: So, you know, since last July, we have forgiven, under the
statutory terms of the PPP program, more than $350 billion worth of
loans.  Right?  Those are loans that the government has forgiven, turned
into turn into grants.  And those are loans, by the way, of up to $10
million per business owner.  
  
     Now, look, we believe that providing support to small businesses is
the right thing to do.  We didn’t design PPP.  Maybe we would have
designed it a little bit differently if we were in charge.  But, broadly
speaking, providing support to small business is a priority of the
President.  
      
     But, look, has any Republican in the last year stood up and said,
“Inflation is really high.  You guys should stop providing this loan
forgiveness to PPP recipients.  You should slow it down because it –” or
“You should change the rules, because it’s unfair that these people
should get up to $10 million in grants”?  
  
     No, in fact, it’s the opposite.  The pressure that we’ve gotten
from Republicans on the Hill has consistently been “Do this faster. 
Make it easier for people to get forgiveness.”  
  
     So our view is: Why is there a double standard here?  Why is it,
from the perspective of Republicans, great to forgive a loan of up to
$10 million to a business owner, but if we want to provide $10,000 or
$20,000 in loan relief to a teacher or a bus driver or a nurse, all of a
sudden, it’s socialism?  That’s — that’s what doesn’t compute, from our
view.  We don’t — we don’t think that that’s consistent.  
  
     MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Justin.

  
     Q    Thanks.  I was wondering if you could talk about the $24
billion number, because it’s a little different when you guys canceled
the ITT or Corinthian, you know, we were given a lump sum of the total
amount.  So I’m wondering if it is fair to extrapolate this to say that
you believe $240 billion in loans will be canceled?  Or, if not, what
are the underlying assumptions that goes to the 24?  Right?  
  
     Are you kind of cutting out — are you assuming economic growth that
will offset some of it?  Are you cutting out folks who would have
defaulted on their loans but wouldn’t — wouldn’t repay?  Does this — I
think it doesn’t include the other Education Department rules that would
have been included, so can you just kind of get us to —  
  
     MR. RAMAMURTI:  Sure.  
  
     Q    — that number, and if there is a topline number?  
  
     MR. RAMAMURTI:  Yeah, so, look, this is a cash flow estimate, which
basically says, you know, there’s a subsection of borrowers who are
going to get relief under this proposal.  We estimate that 75 percent of
them are going to take advantage of the relief that they are offered. 
And if that debt is cancelled, that means that, you know, if they were
scheduled to make $400 worth of payments a year for the next 10 years,
that cash flow is no longer going to come in to the — to the
government.  You know, it’s that — it’s that straightforward.  
  
     Now, as the OMB item that’s going to come out later is going to
describe, there’s some really key differences between what we are doing,
which is a preliminary estimate, and the more complicated and, frankly,
more precise score that is required by federal law.  
  
     And to give you a few examples, number one, you know, under federal
law, to do a budget estimate of this, you have to take the net present
value of all of the payments that are — that are forgone.  That estimate
is going to look at some really important technical implementation
decisions that the Department of Education is going to have to make.  
  
     So, for example, if you’re a borrower, you have multiple loans over
$10,000.  Well, if you get $10,000, in relief, which of these loans is
going to get cancelled?  It depen- — it matters for the — for the cash
flow.  
  
     That’s the kind of more sophisticated, drilling-down type of
analysis that’s going to happen as part of that process, consistent with
our — with budget scoring.  But in an effort to provide you all with
more information and a ballpark, that’s what we’re doing here.

  
     Q    And just because I have you right now and Jay Powell spoke
earlier today, he said that, you know, the Fed was likely going to
continue to pursue interest rate hikes but that it could result in pain,
both in a slower economy and job losses. 

Obviously, inflation is a major concern, and that’s what the Fed is
looking at here.  But the President has not only said that the Fed is
independent but he has sort of endorsed their vision.  And if their
vision results in job losses and an economic slowdown, has the
President’s opinion of that changed in any way?

MR. RAMAMURTI:  Well, I’m not going to answer that hypothetical, but I
will say that we have great respect for the independence of the Federal
Reserve.  I’m not going to comment directly on Chair Powell’s comments. 
But there’s been a lot of good data released about the economy,
including this morning, that, to us, gives us a lot of hope about the
future trajectory of where things are going and how middle-class
families are going to be doing.

So, for example, PCE, which is a measure of inflation, came out this
morning.  In fact, it’s the one that the Federal Reserve prefers to the
CPI.  And what PCE said is that prices fell last year 0.1 percent, and
at the same time, incomes increased.  So that tells a good story about
the state of the economy. 

The University of Michigan put out its consumer sentiment survey this
morning.  Consumer sentiment is up quite a bit over the last month, and
consumer inflation expectations are down.  So again, all good signs
there. 

And, of course, if you look back to some of the data releases a little
bit earlier, for July, we had 528,000 new jobs.  CPI, which came out in
July, that was flat, so no price increases in July.  And, of course,
everyone — everyone’s favorite measure of the economy, gas prices, are
down over $1 since their peak.

So, a lot of good news in the economy.  We’re going to let the Fed do
its work.  And our focus here is to support households, keep our eye on
the ball on inflation, and hopefully come out the other side with a —
with steady and stable growth, which is what the President has said is
his goal.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Matt.  And I’ll come to the back, too.

Q    I had two sort of technical questions, but thankfully you’re here
to answer some technical questions.  The first is: You guys have argued
about the one point trillion dollars in deficit reduction.  It sounds
like it’s hard to get to like a $240 billion figure over 10 years with
this new estimate.  But is it fair to say that that $1.7 trillion
becomes 1.5, or it becomes a lower figure given that it’s not paid for? 
Is that a fair way for us to sort of think about what you guys are
doing?

MR. RAMAMURTI:  Yeah.  That’s a fair way of thinking about it.  Another
way of thinking about it is that we go from the single-largest deficit
reduction in the history of this country to the single-largest deficit
reduction in the history of this country.  (Laughter.)

Q    So the second question is about whether you guys have estimates. 
You’ve argued that this is potentially a deflationary move.  Do you have
any estimates in terms of how much money will start to come in come
January and how much money is going to be not coming in?  And to
articulate a little bit more of how you guys are arriving at that
conclusion. 

MR. RAMAMURTI:  Yeah, we — we’ve looked at those numbers, and they
informed our view that we put out on Wednesday — that we view that the
impact of restarting payments and providing relief are largely going to
offset each other.  And there’s different assumptions about, again, as
we — as we’ve covered, there are different assumptions that go into
figuring out exactly how much is that going to mean.  But in our — in
our mind, with a pretty broad range — range of assumptions that are
going to largely offset. And there have been a host of independent
experts who have said the same thing. 

In fact, Goldman Sachs put out an analysis of this proposal.  And they
said quite clearly that they felt that restarting payments and providing
targeted relief would actually be disinflationary.  In other words, more
money would be coming into the government than going out in the short
term, which would help further — further our efforts to bring down
inflation.

Q    But, I guess, if you guys are saying $24 billion is the estimate
for what won’t come in per year, is there an estimate for next year once
you kick on — once people start paying? 

MR. RAMAMURTI:  Yeah.

Q    Is it $30 billion is coming in —

MR. RAMAMURTI:  Yeah.

Q    — and $24 billion is not?  Or —

MR. RAMAMURTI:  Sure.  I mean, one way to think about it is this: So
we’ve had a student loan pause in place now for over two years.  No
federal borrowers were being required to make any payments.  People are
voluntarily making payments.  So we’re actually collecting, roughly
speaking, $2 billion a month in payments voluntarily.  Under normal
time, so pre-pause, we were collecting about $6 billion in payments a
month from student loan borrowers.  So the difference between those two
is $4 billion.

If we turn the loans back on without making any — any other changes,
roughly speaking — because things have changed in the world in the last
two years — roughly speaking, we would expect to collect about $4
billion a month in addition to what we’re collecting right now.  Right? 
So, roughly speaking, $48 billion coming into the government that
wouldn’t have been coming in before.

As you can sort of piece together, if the average annual cost of this is
$24 billion, that means that on net, about $20- to $24 billion is coming
into the government, even after we do the relief.  Right?  Now, again,
that’s not — there’s some play in those numbers, but I just want to give
you a general sense of how we’re doing the math there.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.

Q    Two just, like, brass tack questions — people are trying to
navigate this still.

MR. RAMAMURTI:  Sure. 

Q    We got this new information today that the form is maybe available
for folks who think they’re eligible in mid- October.  It’s going to
take about four to six weeks —

MR. RAMAMURTI:  Yep.

Q    — for that to be processed.  So can you guys guarantee to folks
that if they are on time and they put in their application in
mid-October, they will definitely see their balance shrink the
appropriate amount —

MR. RAMAMURTI:  Yeah.

Q    — before repayments have to be due again?

MR. RAMAMURTI:  Yeah.

Q    And then just another sort of question, too.  So a lot of
confusion.  If you recently zeroed out your balance in the last few
months, can you request a refund and then still apply to get some of
this forgiveness?

MR. RAMAMURTI:  Right.  All right, so let me — on your first question,
let me just provide a little bit of detail, because I want to make sure
that people get the full story here.

So the application will be available by early October.  In the meantime,
borrowers can go to StudentAid.gov, which has been up now for the last
48 hours, and they can provide their email address so they can get
notified when that application goes live. 

Once the borrower completes the application, they can expect relief
within four to six weeks.  So borrowers are advised to apply by roughly
November 15th in order to receive relief before the payment pause
expires on December 31st. 

And, of course, the Department of Education will continue to process
applications as they’re received, even if the pa- — even after the pause
expires on December 31st.

So one more point here, which is that we encourage everyone who thinks
that they’re eligible to go to the website and go to the application
when it’s available and fill it out.  But as we noted during the
announcement, there’s actually 8 million people — 8 million borrowers —
that’s about 20 percent of the borrowers — for whom the Education
Department already has data about their income on file.  And if those
people qualify based on the income on file, they will actually get
relief automatically. 

So I would refer you to the Education Department for any other questions
about that and your question about refunds.  I would refer you to them.

Q    So if they apply — right? —

MR. RAMAMURTI:  Yeah.

Q    — when the application is available —

MR. RAMAMURTI:  Yeah.

Q    — they should be good to go —

MR. RAMAMURTI:  Yes.

Q    — before December 31st?

MR. RAMAMURTI:  Four to six weeks after they submit the application. 
So, yes, in our view, if you submit by early to mid-November, you should
get your relief before the restart happens at the end of December.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.

Q    Thanks.  I wanted to ask for a second about the legal justification
for this program.  You’re using a 2003 law to justify why COVID is a
national emergency and why student relief — or debt relief is needed. 
What’s your response to critics that say that that’s a stretch in the
law?  And do you plan or do different agencies that are involved here
plan to put out more legal justification for why this is okay?

MR. RAMAMURTI:  Well, look, again, I’m not a lawyer, so I don’t want to
get into too much of the legal nitty-gritty here.  But what I can tell
you is that both the Department of Justice Office of Legal Counsel and
the General Counsel’s Office of the Department of Education have looked
at the text of the statute and believe that the action that the
Secretary took and that the administration took here is legally
justified. 

There’s more detail available in some of the memos that they’ve
written.  And you — I would recommend that you talk to them about it. 
But — but the President was clear from the beginning that he did not
want to move forward on this unless it was clear that it was legally
available to him.  

And, you know, one of the first things that he did when he came to
office was asked for that legal opinion and got the answer that, yes,
options were available to him that were legally permissible under that —
under that law.  And it’s worth noting, by the way, that law that you’re
talking about is the exact same legal authority that the Secretary of
Education has been using since 2020 to impose a pause on student loan
payments for 45 million borrowers.  And that has not been challenged in
court.  It has not been found improper by a court.  It’s the same
statute that the previous administration used and that we’ve used, that
we are now using for this action.

Q    I also wanted to ask: You, as an administration, have taken
existing statutes and — I don’t know if “stretch” is the right word, but
you did it with the eviction moratorium, you did it with vaccines, and
we’ve seen courts push back.  In this case, you have people who are
really excited and really making plans with this money that they think
they’re going to save.  What’s your response to them?  Are you preparing
for a legal challenge?  What’s your response when people are reading
that there could be legal uncertainty to your position?

MR. RAMAMURTI:  Yeah.  Well, look, I — you know, what we can say is that
we believe we’re on strong legal ground in taking this action.  Of
course, people can challenge actions in court.  It happens all the
time.  It happens to this administration.  It’s happened to every
administration in history.  It’s going to be up to the courts to decide
whether those are valid claims or not.  But we believe that we’re on
very strong legal ground.

Q    Thank you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Niels, and then we’ll come back.

Q    If you — a follow-up to that: If a judge somewhere were to attempt
to put a stay on the implementation of the student debt relief, would
the payments still resume in January? 

The other — so the other side of the coin: So if the student debt relief
were to be stopped by a court, would the — would the other side of it —
payments — still resume?

MR. RAMAMURTI:  Yeah, I — I’m not in a position to answer that
hypothetical right now, but it’s a good question.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Jacqui.

Q    Thank you.  I want to just go back to your comparison between this
and the PPP loans —

MR. RAMAMURTI:  Sure.

Q    — because what Republicans and critics are saying is that there’s a
difference between those decisions being voted on by Congress and, you
know, those loans that turned into grants being, by and large, for — you
know, to cover businesses that were shut down by the government
involuntarily because of a natural disaster versus students who
willfully took out their loans and are now unable, for whatever reason,
to repay them — there is a difference there.

MR. RAMAMURTI:  Well, I would say they’re — both actions are based on
laws that Congress passed.  You know, we’re — we are implementing a law
that Congress passed — actually a Republican Congress and Republican
President in 2003: the HEROES Act.  And again, that’s the exact same
legal authority that the previous administration used to put a pause on
student loan payments.  That’s the authority that we’re using in this
instance.  So, you know, we are acting consistent with the law. 

And, look, to go back to my earlier point, we’re not against PPP.  We’re
supportive of the idea that small businesses should get relief.  The
point is that over the past year, we have been forgiving hundreds of
billions of dollars’ worth of loans to business owners. 

And remember, that program was stood up very quickly.  Money went out
the door quickly.  And Congress could have come back at any time and
said, you know, “We should look a

little bit more carefully at these loans, maybe we shouldn’t be
providing forgiveness to people if they clearly did extraordinarily well
during the pandemic.  Remember, these are really low-interest loans;
maybe we should just make them pay back their loan at a low interest
rate, rather than forgiving it.” 

     None of that happened.  We didn’t hear from a single Republican
pushing for any of that.  Everyone was on board with forgiving up to $10
million in loans. 

     And so, all we’re saying is that it’s hard to credit those same
people who are highly supportive of that program and that amount of debt
forgiveness, turning around and saying that forgiving a fraction of that
amount for working people — not business owners, but working people —
somehow that crosses the line over into socialism.  That’s not how we
view it. 

     Q    Okay.  What’s the difference, though, between — I guess, how
are you justifying using a 2003 law that was, you know, designed to help
military families for this purpose, where you’re now helping bail out
people who took out loans and cannot pay them?  Do you view people who
can’t pay their debt as heroes like those who are in our armed services
and were fighting after 9/11?

     MR. RAMAMURTI:  Yeah, no, look, I think, as the President has said,
there is a real problem here with the burden that student loan debt
places on people from low-income and middle-income families.  You know,
we used to have a system where a Pell Grant, which is federal support to
low-income families, used to cover 80 percent of the cost of going to a
four-year public college.  And as of today, it covers 33 percent of the
cost.

     So what are people supposed to do?  They want to get a degree. 
They’re being told that’s the right thing to do.  They think it’s going
to help them —

     Q    Why go after the universities?  Why not build in something to
make sure that borrowing moving forward is limited or that universities
don’t just ratchet up the cost?

     MR. RAMAMURTI:  Sure.  Yeah, I’m glad that you brought that up,
because I want to address it.  Remember, the President put out a
three-part plan on this.  And the third part of it was accountability
for colleges.  And it detailed a few things. 

     Number one, unlike the previous administration, which loosened the
reins on colleges and universities, rolled back rules that were intended
to hold them accountable for raising costs, this President and this
administration reinstituted an enforcement office at the Department of
Education that goes after these types of colleges. 

     It kicked out in an accreditor, which is a private company that
basically says that this institution, this college is — is good enough
so they should get federal loans.  This accreditor allowed colleges like
ITT and Corinthian to get access to federal loans.  And then that —
those colleges defrauded people, defrauded students. 

     So this administration responded by kicking that accreditor out of
the program.  They’re not going to be able to accredit colleges
anymore. 

     And I would note that a central element of the President’s
community college plan was accountability so that neither colleges or
states that took that money could raise prices on students unfairly. 

     So, all of that said, I think that we believe that the department
should have even more authority to go after bad actors and to hold
colleges accountable.  And we’re eager to work with Congress to advance
any proposals along those lines.

     Q    I guess I wanted to ask — I know the President last month,
when he made remarks about the Inflation Reduction Act, really
highlighted the fact that it would reduce the deficit.  And if a larger
percentage of those student borrowers end up availing themselves at this
program, you know, it would cost $320 billion — right? — if you had 100
percent uptake, essentially, over 10 years.  And that’s the goal. 

     So, you know, is there — I guess, can you acknowledge that some
people would feel disappointed that this could basically wipe out the
savings from that law?

     MR. RAMAMURTI:  Yeah, I’m glad you asked about that because I think
that there’s a nuance here that’s important to understanding why that
doesn’t quite work. 

     So when — when the budgetary score comes out for this proposal,
like I talked about — we’re going to get a little wonky for a second
here — what it’s going to do is say that all the loans that are being
modified or eliminated here, we have to look over the lifetime of that
loan and figure out how many dollars are we not collecting because of
that modification. 

     And so, as you know, many, many loans — the repayment lasts over 10
years.  You know, people are repaying for 20, 25 years in instances. 
So, really, that score is going to reflect the cost over a much longer
time horizon than your standard 10-year budget window. 

     As a result, in our view, the thing that we should compare that
score to is not just the first 10 years of the Inflation Reduction Act,
it’s the — at least the first two decades of it, and maybe the lifetime
impact of that. 

     And if you look at outside analyses of the long-term impact of the
Inflation Reduction Act, they find that it would reduce the deficit by a
trillion dollars over the next two decades. 

     So, in our view, that is the relevant point of comparison on that. 

     MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  MJ.

     Q    Yeah, I wanted to ask you about the updated Penn-Wharton
estimate, which says just the debt cancellation piece alone would cost
up to $519 billion over 10 years, and then the total plan would cost
upwards of $1 trillion. 

     Obviously, there is a significant gap between the $24 billion per
year that you’re assigning, or $240 billion over 10 years.  Just wanted
to give you the chance to walk us through why we might see that
difference in the two models.

     MR. RAMAMURTI:  Sure.  I know it just came out today, and I didn’t
have too much time to look carefully into it, but I got a chance to skim
it. 

     My view is that there’s a couple of things.  Right off the top,
getting to that trillion dollars, they rel- — they have a massive range
on estimating the impact of our reforms to the income-based repayment
plan. 

     They say that their baseline estimate is that it costs about $70
billion, but then they say it could cost $450 billion more than that if
you make certain assumptions.  So, you know, in our, in our view, you
can lop off that $450 billion right there because it seems to be
somewhat speculative and clearly the top end of the range.

     Beyond that, the debt relief analysis doesn’t do a few things. 
Number one, it doesn’t account for the fact that — it assumes 100
percent of people will take it up.  You know, in our mind, that’s not
necessarily a reasonable assumption. 

     And look, estimating the cost of forgiving certain debt is more
complicated than just looking at the face value of the debt that’s being
canceled.  So, I gave the example when I was here last time that — let’s
say you canceled debt for somebody who has been in default for more than
seven years.  There’s actually millions of borrowers in that position. 
If the face value of their debt is $10,000 and you cancel it, it’s not
reasonable to say that the cost of that is $10,000 because you were
sitting here collecting zero dollars on that loan year after year after
year.  So some of those elements are also going to affect — affect the
score. 

     So, you know, the Education Department has the best data on it.  It
has all of the data about who repays, what to expect about repayment
horizons and payment rates, how this interacts with the existing
income-based repayment program, and all of that.  So we feel confident
in our numbers.

     Q    Just one follow-up.  Given that the upwards of $1 trillion
that they are estimating, that obviously is a number that’s a lot closer
to the $1.7 trillion in deficit reduction that you all have been
citing.  So, I’m just curious: Was the total cost that this plan would
amount to — was that a factor when the President and all of you were
deciding what the total amount of forgiveness should be?  Or was the
forgiveness amount — did you get there, sort of, regardless of the cost
and then you sort of figured out what the general cost would be after?

     MR. RAMAMURTI:  Yeah, I want to make totally clear that we don’t
think that a trillion dollars is anywhere in the ballpark of what this
is going to cost. 

     Number two, you know, yes, the President was quite focused on what
the — at least a good estimate of what the cost of this proposal was
going to be.  It was a big factor in — in his decision.  He was looking
into and thinking about how that would compare, versus the deficit
reduction that he had been able to secure over the last year — last two
years, frankly — of his presidency.  Remember, in the first year of his
presidency, he brought down the deficit by $350 billion. 

     So it was a factor.  We provided him with estimates along the lines
of what we have provided — provided you, and that did play a role in
thinking through how to design the policy.

     Q    Was there a percentage that he was determined not to cross?

     MR. RAMAMURTI:  Not that I recall.

     MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  Just, like, two more.

     Q    For students who are about to take out new loans, what should
the message to them be about whether their loans could be forgiven in
the future?  And does the White House have an obligation to emphasize
that this could very be well be a one-time thing so they’re not taking
out additional loans?

     MR. RAMAMURTI:  I would say two things.  Number one, this is going
to be a one-time thing, in terms of the blanket relief.  You know, use
this as an authority that is conditional on an emergency, as I said, and
the President believes that this relief is warranted in this instance,
coming out of the pandemic and as we transition back into repayment. 
It’s not the kind of authority that you can use over and over again. 

     But what I would say to that student is that these income-based
repayment reforms that are also part of this proposal are designed to
help people who go to school and then end up having lower-income,
middle-income jobs going forward. 

     Remember, we had some examples in the factsheet that we put out
alongside the proposal showing that, for example, somebody making $30-
or $40,000 a year, after they have some debt, the income-based repayment
reforms represent a savings of $1,000, $1,500 a year or more, depending
on their exact circumstances. 

     So it was really important to the President that this package of
proposals not just be relief for current borrowers; it’s a reform to the
system so that future borrowers also get more manageable debt loads
going forward. 

     MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  I think the pool — the in-town pool has to
gather, so if folks need to go, feel free.  I’ll stay a little bit
longer. 

     Go ahead.  You’re being very —

     Q    I’ll just ask my question.  Many comparisons have been made
from the American system to foreign governments, where higher education
is government-funded, taxpayer-funded at no cost to students.  How did
foreign systems inform the decision for loan forgiveness? And is there
any economic data we can glean from those countries that we might —
might see as a result of the loan forgiveness decision?

     MR. RAMAMURTI:  Yeah, as we’ve talked about, part of the reason
that we’re in this position, part of the reason why the cost of college
— even after accounting for inflation has tripled in the last 40 years,
since 1980 — part of it is that there has been a significant amount of
disinvestment, especially at the state level. 

     So states used to put more money into funding public education,
public higher education in their states.  And that helped keep tuition
down, especially for in-state students.  What we’ve seen in recent
decades is pulling back on that and basically shifting the burden onto
students who come from lower-income and middle-income families. 

     And as I noted, the federal government hasn’t done enough to step
in and fill that void and the value of the Pell Grant has deteriorated
from 80 percent to 33 percent. 

     So, you know, what the President has called for, as you know, is a
series of increased federal investment that would make it easier for
folks from lower-income and middle-income families to go to college,
right? 

     Doubling the Pell Grant.  Right now, the Pell Grant is about $6,500
a year.  He wants to double it to $13,000 a year.  That represents a
significant amount of relief for people from lower-income, middle-income
families. 

     And as I talked about, he’s also pushing to make community college
free.

     MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  You got to wrap it up.  I’ll stay a
little longer for folks to take some questions.

     MR. RAMAMURTI:  Thanks, everyone.

     MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Thank you so much, Bharat.  That was very
helpful.  Thank you.  Good to have you.

     Okay.  So I’ll stay a little bit longer and take some questions for
— for folks who are still here.  Okay, just a –just a topper for you. 

     And this is something that Bharat already alluded to, talked about,
which is the PCE.  While there is more work to do to bring prices down,
we received several pieces of encouraging economic news today from PCE. 

     The new data on the personal consumption expenditures — what
economists call, again, PCE — show that in July, incomes went up while
prices went down.  So, based on this measure, inflation went down in
July. 

     This was largely driven by the fastest decline in gas prices in a
decade.  The national average is now down to $3.87 per gallon.  The
American people are starting to get some relief from high prices.  And
that’s underscored by new data that shows consumer sentiment is up 13
percent since July.  And one-year expenditures of inflation dropped by
nearly a half a percentage point.  That’s encouraging news as well.  
  
     The President’s number-one economic priority is lowering cost while
sustaining our historic economic recovery.  The recently signed CHIPS
Act and Inflation Reduction Act will do just that.  
  
     Once again, we have more work to do, as we have said over and over
again.  We continue to face real global challenges.  And we are always
careful to not read too much into any one month’s data.  
  
     But what we saw today is encouraging evidence that we are on the
right course and we are making progress.  
  
     Aamer.  
  
     Q    Does the President believe that it was appropriate for the
former President to have classified information and — unsecured in his
home?  
  
     MS. JEAN-PIERRE:   So, as it relates to — and I — I understand why
folks have an interest in this.  We totally get that.  But as it relates
to any — any comments, on anything related to this independent
investigation, even any underlying materials, we feel that it is not
appropriate for us to comment on this.  
  
     This is an independent investigation that the Department of Justice
is leading.  That’s something that the President finds is an important
thing to do — for the Department of Justice to have that independence.
     We’re just not going to comment.  
  
     Q    The President yesterday suggested that Republican ideology is
veering towards “semi-fascism.”  Can you just clarify what exactly does
the President mean by that?  
  
     And secondly, the President also said he respects conservative
Republicans, but he does not respect MAGA Republicans.  More than 70
million Americans voted for Trump in 2020.  Does he not respect those
voters?  
  
     MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, I mean, that’s not what he said.  I’m going
to — I think he was pretty clear.  And he was very powerful last
night.  
  
     Look, what the President said last night was that when it comes to
MAGA Republicans, when it comes to the extreme, ultra wing of
Republicans, they are attacking democracy.  Right?  They are attacking —
taking away rights and freedoms.  They are using threat of — threats of
violence.  They are taking away voting rights.  And he called it what it
is.  That’s what he did.  He called it what it is and what many, we
would argue, you know, historians would agree with us on.  
  
     And so what Joe Biden believes is, as President, he should and
Presidents should be the strongest voice for democracy.  And so, he was
making that very clear.  He was making that contrast to what
congressional Democrats have been doing, which is fighting for our
rights, fighting for freedom, delivering on an economy that is historic,
10 million jobs that have been created, lowering healthcare, lowering
prescription drugs, and making sure that we take on those special
interest groups.  And we saw, just a couple of weeks ago, that we won.  
  
     So, he’s making that contrast, trying to make that very clear, of
what we are seeing today.  And so, he was passionate about this, he was
eloquent about this.  And he also, when it comes to what you’re asking
me about Republicans who are conservative, clearly, he said that he
believed there are traditional conservative Republicans.  He was very
clear on that.  He specifically called out and mentioned Maryland
Governor Larry Hogan as one of them.  
  
     So — but we have to really, you know, make sure that we — we — we
make it clear that there’s a choice in front of the American people —
right? — and we have to make sure that we make it loud and clear that
when it comes to MAGA Republicans, we call that out — and that’s what he
did — and what they’re doing — right? — what they’re doing in attacking
our democracy.   
  
     And so, he wanted to be clear on that.  And he made that contrast. 
And that’s what you heard from the President.

  
     Go ahead.  
  
     Q    Has the White House made any changes, in light of the
revelations of the former President’s handling of classified material,
to its own processes or training procedures for handling, sort of,
protected and secret information?  
  
     MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have anything to share with you.  Again,
we’re just going to be really mindful.  I know — I get the question that
you’re asking.  We’re just not going to share any change of processes;
we’re not going to share any information, anything that’s related to
this — any content, any underlying materials to the investigation that
the Department of Justice is doing — again, an independent
investigation.  We’re just not going to comment at this time.  
  
     Q    Just to hop back to loan forgiveness for a second.  NPR has
done a lot of reporting on sort of administrative processing failures at
the Department of Education for these loan programs.  These are kind of
lapses in income-based repayment and sort of profession-based repayment
that Secretary Cardona has acknowledged.  
  
     Is the administration concerned at all about similar issues for
the, sort of, coming loan forgiveness program or ways that it might give
up the — leave borrowers in the lurch?  
  
     MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, you just mentioned Secretary Cardona
has been really clear about the previous — the previous loan forgiveness
programs and other programs that have been before him and in his
agency.  
  
     Look, we take this very seriously.  We believe that this is an
important plan that’s going to give relief, again, to up to 43 million
Americans.  It’s a very targeted plan that’s going to give relief to 90
percent of Americans that are making less than $75,000 a year.  That is
important.  
  
     This is a campaign promise that the President made and kept.  And
he went beyond — not just to $10,000, but up to $20- — $20,000.  
  
     So, we’re going to do everything that we can to make sure that that
gets delivered.  But, of course, we’re going to hear from folks and see
if they will take us up on it.  
  
     Again, this is an important piece of — an important plan that is
historic.  We have not seen any President do this before.  And we’re
going to do everything that we can.  Of course, Secretary Cardona is
going to do everything that they can with — he can with his team to get
this done.  
  
     Go ahead, April.  
  
     Q    Karine, this Sunday will be the 59th anniversary of the March
on Washington.  And how is this White House, how is this President
marking that moment, particularly as he decided to run for office
because of the massacre in Charlottesville, as he walked in talking
about equity and equality?

  
     MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, let me first say a couple of things, because
this is a — it is an important day, and I want to give it the due, as
you’re asking me this question.  
  
     You’re right.  What — when the President — when the President and
so many Americans saw what was happening not too long ago, back in 2017
— just in August of 2017 — and we saw what was happening in
Charlottesville, that moved him.  What we saw — the hatred that we saw
there — that moved him and that moves so many of us.  And he actually
wrote an op-ed talking about what he thought that meant for this country
and how sad and devastating it is — it was to see that type of behavior,
that type of hatred, and that type of sentiment that was very public and
also someone lost their life.  So, I want to make sure that we don’t
forget that day as well, that weekend as well.  
  
     And when the President came into office, he took that, when —
talking about racial — dealing with racial equity — he took his — he
took that very seriously.  And you see that across — across the agency. 
He had signed an executive order talking about how we — he wanted to
make sure that there was racial equity within the — within the agencies
across the federal government.  And you’ve seen him do that.  
  
     And Susan Rice, as you know — you know, the ambassador is leading
that effort with her — with her department and dealing with the
different agencies and making sure that we deal with — we deal with
racial inequities, even here in the agencies.  
  
     So as it relates to March on Washington and that anniversary — the
President has said this before and I’ll reiterate: The March on
Washington and Dr. Martin Luther King Jr’s “I Have a Dream” speech
changed the course of history.  We continue to reaffirm our commitment
to fulfilling America’s founding promise. 

And the President has made advancing equality core to his
administration, as I just laid out.  We can’t rest until justice truly
rings out for all of us. 

I don’t have anything specific on what the President is going to be
doing on this.  But we will share if we have anything more.

Q    And there was a missed opportunity, if you will.  Civil rights
leaders wanted to mark the anniversary Sunday by having a meeting with
the President this week.  Could you talk about that?  Is there an effort
to try to have this meeting happen soon?  Was it a missed opportunity,
et cetera?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I mean, I’ll say this: I don’t have a meeting to
read out or speak to at this time, but, you know, we have stayed in
regular touch with civil rights leaders.  You know this, April, you’ve
talked — I think you’ve reported on the many meetings that this
administration has had with civil rights leaders.  We are in close touch
with them.  The President has very good relationships with many of those
leaders.  And so, we — we find those relationships important that we
will continue to grow. 

Again, I don’t have a meeting or anything to lay out, but, again, we’re
in regular touch with members of that community.

Q    And lastly, is equity still one of the major crux — one of the
major pillars of this administration?  Is this still one of the
fundamental pieces of this administration?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, it is.  It is.  I mean, I’ll just remind you, when
the President walked into this administration — and I’ve said this many
times before at the podium — he laid out the different crises that were
before him when he came in.  Racial equity was one of them, in saying
that we needed to do everything that we can to deal with that crisis in
a real way.  And he has taken those actions, as you — as the Grio has
reported on, as many of you in this room have reported on what —  the
steps that he has taken.  But it doesn’t start with the executive
order.  It — it also has actions that we’re going to continue to take
within the White House as well. 

Q    Thank you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay, I’m going to come back because I didn’t take
your question. 

Q    In New York and D.C., mayors have said the federal government isn’t
doing enough to help with migrants who are being sent by bus to their
cities.  Does the administration have plans to do anything more on
this? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, the administration has been in regular touch with
Mayor Bowser — clearly, the mayor of D.C. — and Mayor Adams, mayor of
New York City.  And FEMA regional administrators have been meeting with
both mayors on site to coordinate available federal support from FEMA
and other federal agencies. 

Funding is also available through FEMA’s Emergency Food and Shelter
Program to eligible local governments and not-for-profit organizations
upon request to support humanitarian relief for migrants, as we have
done many times in response to Governor Abbott’s repeated attempts to
create chaos — and, really, to create chaos and confusion.  That’s what
he’s doing at the border, and costing his own constituents over — well
over a million dollars. 

So we will work to manage the consequences of this latest political
charade that we see from the governor.  And we do take this very
seriously and are continuing — going to work with Mayor Bowser and Mayor
Adams.

I would point you to a statement that FEMA put out earlier this week
laying out the steps that they have taken and what they’re doing to
provide assistance. 

Go ahead.  I’m just going to call on folks I haven’t called on.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  And just to get something on the record: Does the
White House have any response to the release of the search warrant
affidavit for Mar- — Mar-a-Lago?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m just going to say what I just told this young man
a few minutes ago: We understand — again, we understand the interest in
this.  We are not going to comment on any underlying materials, any
content that is related to an ongoing investigation.  This is an
independent investigation — a legal investigation that the Department of
Justice has the independence to conduct.  And we do not feel it is
appropriate for us to comment.

Q    And then real briefly on student loans.  Does the White House
believe that federal student loans play any role in the increasing cost
of college since students are able to, you know, take on more debt that
they don’t have to pay off right away?  Does that allow colleges to
increase their costs maybe more than they might?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  You know, I’ve gotten this question in the past —
well, not in the past, it’s just been a couple of days of this week. 

And so, one of the things — and I think Bharat talked about this a
little bit, because there’s been questions about, “Is this going to
raise the tuition — by doing this — from colleges?” 

Look, this is something that the Secretary of Education, Secretary
Cardona — he has said this in interviews — that he’ll be monitoring,
keeping a close eye on.  He will continue to take the steps to hold
colleges accountable for raising costs without delivering additional
value.  So that’s a big piece of — of what you — what you were asking
me.

But already the administration has taken actions to — accountable
measures.  He — we reinstated an enforcement office at the Department of
Education.  We terminated a college accreditor that had previously
allowed colleges that defrauded borrowers to get access to federal
student loans.  That’s something that Bharat just talked about
specifically moments ago.  And we’re rolling out new resource to help
students make more informed decisions on which school will better
deliver value for the cost. 

Look, you know, once again, I just want to say this: You know, you have
— what — one thing that people are told — young people particularly are
told — is that in order to have a — have a — you know, a good job or
have a career, you got to go to college and get that education or
continue that education.  And — and there’s some communities that need a
little bit of help, and we should be providing that little bit of help. 

That’s why we did a targeted — the President did a targeted, fiscally
responsible approach in making sure that we give Americans a little bit
more breathing room –- middle-class Americans a little bit more
breathing room.  And when you do that, you know, they are going to have
extra money to buy that house.  They’re going to have a little extra
money to start that family.  And so that is important as well.  And that
is something that the President is certainly committed to.

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Karine. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No.  Go ahead. 

I’ll come around.  Go ahead. 

Q    Me?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m sorry.  Sebastian. 

Q    Yes?  Okay. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I was pointing to Sebastian. 

Q    Okay, thanks. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  And then I’ll –- I’ll come around. 

Q    Thanks very much.  I knew there was people right behind me. 
(Laughter.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  It’s so funny.  I think —

Q    I didn’t want to assume it was me.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I actually think when I’m pointing that I’m pointing
to someone specific, but I —

Q    Right.  Okay.  Right.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — sort of from the other — from the other side —

Q    I — I got it.  (Inaudible.)  (Laughter.)  So two questions, if I
may.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Sure.

Q    On the “semi-fascism” comment.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah?

Q    Is this something we’re going to hear more of — that phrase?  Is it
something the President’s going to kind of embrace?  Or is there any
sense that it was, you know, a little impromptu and it’s going to turn
into a kind of “basket of deplorables” thing that he regrets and then
tries to be quiet about?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, I was very clear when — when laying out and
defining what, you know, MAGA Republicans have done.  And you look at
the definition of “fascism,” and you think about what they’re doing in
attacking our democracy, what they’re doing in taking away our freedoms,
taking away — wanting to take away our rights, our voting rights.  I
mean, that is what that is; it is very clear.  And that’s why he made
that — that — that powerful speech that you heard from him last night. 

And he has not shied away from saying that.  You have heard him — maybe
not use that specific word, but you have heard him certainly use that
definition. 

And look, what we — again, what we are putting before the American
people is a choice.  Right?  And it is clear — there’s a clear contrast
as what is happening on that side of the aisle and what’s happening on
our side with congressional Democrats and what we have been delivering
for the American people.  And we’re going to continue to fight for
freedom.  We’re going to continue to fight for people’s rights.  And
that is not — that is something that he takes very seriously.  And
that’s what you heard from him last night.

Q    Okay.  And just quickly on the other side of the world, how
confident is the administration that European allies are going to be
able to weather the energy crisis that seems to be going into in
winter.  It’s obviously going to get worse. Finnish people are
apparently not taking saunas already, but it’s getting worse.  Not — not
to make light of it. 

And politically, is there concern that this whole alliance over Ukraine
is going to — is going to really start cracking when that — when that
bites in the winter?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, you know, just a couple of things.  And I have a
few things that I want to say, because this is an important question.

So President Putin is weaponizing energy.  Right?  You’ve heard us say
that before, and that is exactly what is happening.  This is why
President Biden set up a task force with the EU back in March to work on
ways to increase alternative sources of natural gas to Europe, including
from the United States. 

We’ve made progress since March.  Global LNG exports to Europe has risen
by 84 percent compared to 2021, while the U.S. share of those LNG
exports have been nearly tripled.  And so that’s important to note.  In
fact, global LNG exports to Europe since March have increased by 20
billion cubic meters compared to last year, already exceeding the pledge
President Biden made back in March to work with partners to ensure
additional values — volumes for the EU market of at least 15 billion
cubic meters this year.

We know we have more work to do.  And we’ll keep looking for ways to
increase gas stockpiles in Europe, coupled with efforts to reduce
Europe’s demand for natural gas through energy efficiency and clean
energy deployment.  The path to energy security requires a doubling down
on our efforts to transition to a clean energy economy, and we continue
to work with Europe on this shared goal.

Look, we — what you have seen this past several months — more than six
months — even before we saw the war in Ukraine, the unprovoked war by
Russia, is a unified West.  You see the NATO Alliance the strongest that
it’s ever been.  It’s — it is going to — look like it’s going to extend
by two, and that would not have happened if they weren’t united, if we
didn’t see the leadership of this President. 

And so we — we believe that Alliance, that partnership is going to
continue.  We are going to make sure that our partners in Ukraine has
what they need to to continue to fight for their freedom and fight for
their sovereignty.

AIDE:  (Inaudible.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, we have to go?  Okay, I’ll take — Go ahead,
Brett.  I was supposed to call on Brett.  Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  I know today marks the anniversary of the
terrorist attack in Kabul, in Afghanistan.  I saw the President’s
statement this morning, but I was curious: Has he reached out to any of
the families of the victims of that attack?  Or does he have any plans
to address the anniversary of the withdrawal at length to the American
people?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So the President put out a statement earlier — earlier
today.  And so — and as you all probably saw — some of you probably saw
the statement that was released, he named each of the 13 troops who were
tragically, tragically killed on that day.  The President feels deeply
about the loss that was suffered one year ago. 

And as he said in this — in that statement, he feels strongly that we
owe their families support for the rest of their lives.  That is
something that he’s committed to.  We are never going to stop seeking
justice for those who were involved in planning of that attack or for
terrorists who threaten our homeland on any other day. 

So, no President feels more strongly about our troops and their families
than this President.  And he and the First Lady have taken action to
support our service members and their families through Joining Forces
and signing the historic burn pits legislation that — that, as you all
know, expands benefits for veterans, and it was incredibly historical.

So again, I point you to the statement.  I don’t have anything more to
share. 

I will take one last question.  Who — somebody I haven’t called on. 
Rob, I know I haven’t — I know you’ve been waiting.  Rob, go ahead.

Q    Okay.  So, on Afghanistan, just to follow up, what would you say to
the father of a U.S. Marine killed in the suicide attack last year?  He
thinks that taping a segment with Jay Leno this afternoon is insensitive
and tone deaf. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Again, this is something that’s very personal to the
President.  He — it was a tragic killing on that day.  Thirteen members
were lost, as well as 170 — more than 170 lives of — Afghan lives.  So
this is an incredibly important day that he wants to make sure that he
acknowledged, which is why he put out the statement.  But he and the
First Lady have not lost focus on those families or any of the families
that have lost loved ones in this 20-year war.  Because that — remember,
we were there for two decades, and we lost a lot of lives.

Through Joining Forces, as I just mentioned, and the burn pits
legislation, the President — that the President just signed, that is
important as well.  That is the work that this President is committed to
doing.  And that is a big deal, an important thing for service members
and their families. 

And again, no President feels more strongly about our troops and their
families than this President, who himself the father of a service member
who served in Iraq.  So this is —

Q    But is it a good day to film something with a comedian?  I mean, is
that — are you worried about the optics of that at all?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:   What I will tell you is that this is a day — a tragic
day that the Pres- — the President takes very personal.  Not just the
President, also the First Lady. 

And I will let his words — the statement stand for — for itself.  He
knows this, again, as a father himself of a service member that served
in Iraq.  So I — we do not take this lightly.  We take this very
seriously. 

And, you know, our hearts are with the families today.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay, we’re — I’m going to go.  I’m going to go.

Q    Do you have any comment on the election in Angola and Kenya? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay, I’ll take that one really quickly, and then
we’re going to go, because this is important.

The United States congratulates the people of Angola for making their
voices heard in Wednesday’s elections.  We continue to observe the
electoral process as votes are counted.  We encourage peace and patience
as the vote tally process continues. 

The United States supports the democratic process through our ongoing
democracy and governance programs, and by observing the election. 
Election observations promote participation and public confidence in the
electoral process. 

The United States and Angola share a strong partnership.  We will
continue to work together with the government chosen by the Angolan
people to deepen cooperation around shared priorities, including
democracy, economic growth, and investment, global health security and
public health, and climate and energy goals to create a better future
for all Angolans.

The United States commends the people of Angola for their participation
in the democratic process and efforts to strengthen democratic
institutions, which will provide a foundation for a safe, prosperous,
healthy, and inclusive future for both of our countries.

Thank you, everybody.  Have a great weekend.  I’ll see you on Monday.

                         END            2:17 P.M. EDT
