---
date: '2022-08-31'
modified_time: 2022-08-31 19:28:47-04:00
published_time: 2022-08-31 19:28:46-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2022/08/31/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-august-31-2022/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre, August 31,\_2022"
---
 
   
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

3:02 P.M. EDT   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Good afternoon, everybody.   
  
Q    Good afternoon.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I have a few things at the top for everybody.   
  
Okay, so I wanted to provide you an update on our efforts to support the
people of Jackson and the state of Mississippi.  The President spoke
with the mayor of Jackson this morning, and the FEMA Administrator also
spoke with the governor.  The President last night also immediately
approved the governor’s emergency declaration request, directing his
team to surge assistance to the state.   
  
FEMA has personal — personnel on site in the State Emergency Operations
Center and is coordinating with the State Emergency Management Team to
identify specific resource requirements.   
  
The Environmental Protection Agency is deploying a subject-matter expert
to support the emergency assessment of the Jackson water treatment
plants and is working to expedite delivery of experiment \[sic\] — sorry
— equipment needed to repair Jackson’s water treatment plant.  
  
We are committed to helping the people of Jackson and the Mississippi —
and the state of Mississippi during this urgent time of need.   
  
We are saddened by the tragic loss of life and destruction as a result
of the severe flooding in Pakistan.  We send our deepest condolences to
all the individuals and families impacted.  The United States stands
with communities in Pakistan as they experience severe flooding and
landslides.   
  
Yesterday, USAID announced it is providing an additional $30 million in
humanitarian assistance to support the people affected by the severe
flooding.  With these funds, USAID partners will prioritize urgently
needed support for flo- — for food, nutrition, safe water, improved
sanitation and hygiene, and shelter assistance.   
  
A USAID disaster management specialist is also in Islamabad to assess
the impact of the floods and to determine additional humanitarian
assistance that the U.S. government may provide.   
  
The United States has and will continue to be a strong supporter of the
people of Pakistan.  We are the — we are the single-largest humanitarian
donor to Pakistan, having provided over $33 million in humanitarian
assistance.  We will continue to closely monitor the situation in
Pakistan for further needs following this horrific tragedy.   
  
Also, this morning, we announced new public- and private-sector actions
to strengthen the teaching profession and support schools as they
address teacher shortages.   
  
The new efforts include commitments from leading job platforms — such as
— such as ZipRecruiter, Indeed, and Handshake — to make it easier for
Americans to find teaching opportunities.  They include new initiatives
from teacher unions and organizations to expand high-quality pathways
into the teaching profession.   
  
Secretary Cardona and Secretary Walsh also sent a letter to state and
local leaders outlining a series of actions they can take to support
teachers and schools.   
  
And earlier this afternoon, First Lady Jill Biden, Domestic Policy
Advisor Susan Rice, Secretary Cardona, and Secretary Walsh met with
public- and private-sector leaders here at the White House.  They
discussed short- and long-term strategies to address the teacher
shortage and the actions the President has already taken to address
longstanding staffing challenges facing our schools.   
  
This includes the $130 billion the President secured through the
American Rescue Plan for school districts across the country to hire,
retain, and support teachers.   
  
We are committed to addressing the teacher shortage and giving students,
families, and educators the resources they need for a successful and
safe schoolyear this year.   
  
And lastly, I want to take a moment to recognize International Overdose
Awareness Day.  According to the Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention, more than 107,000 Americans tragically died from a drug
overdose in 2021.   
  
Today the Second Gentleman and Dr. Gupta, the Director of the White
House Office of National Drug Control Policy, will meet with families
from across the country who have lost loved ones to deadly drugs like
illicit fentanyl.   
  
For far too many years, the overdose epidemic has been destroying
American lives and causing pain and heartbreak for families across the
country.   
  
As the President said in the State of the Union, beating the overdose
epidemic is a key part of his agenda.  The President’s strategy expands
access to high-impact public health services while reducing the supply
of illicit drugs like fentanyl.   
  
As part of that strategy, the Department of Health and Human Services
announced today around $80 million in grants to support prevention and
treatment for substance use and overdose prevention.   
  
While this funding will help communities across the nation, we need more
resources to match the scale of the problem.  That’s why the President’s
fiscal year 2023 budget proposed a significant increase in funding to
beat the overdose epidemic and save lives.  
  
With that — hello, Chris.  
  
Q    Hello.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Good to see you back in D.C.  
  
Q    Yeah.  So, last night, the Justice Department released a photo of
top-secret documents found at Mar-a-Lago.  Has President Biden seen the
photo, been briefed on the photo?  And does the White House believe that
there was national security at risk by having these documents there?   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, as I’ve said many times — and I get how you’re
asking the question; I hear you, Chris — we’re just not going to comment
on the investigation — anything — any underlying pieces of the
investigation, any content of the investigation.   
  
This is an ongoing, as you all know, investigation that the Department
of Justice — an independent investigation that the Department of Justice
is doing.   
  
We are not going to politically interfere.  We are not going to comment
on anything connected to the investigation.  And we’re just going to
keep it there.  
  
Q    Sure, but not on the investigation, the legal process, the FBI —
but as the President’s role as Commander-in-Chief, overseeing national
security, you have top-secret documents — some potentially involving
human sources there.  You know, is that something that the President is
keeping tabs on or that’s part of his intelligence briefing?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, as far as top-secret materials or classified
materials, look, the President has said he believes — he said this very
recently — in the importance of properly handling classified materials. 
But in — in regards to this specific case, again, we’re just not going
to comment from here.   
  
We want to make sure we’re — what we’re doing is, like, out of an
abundance of caution — right? — to not comment on an ongoing
investigation, not to politically interfere.   
  
This is an independent investigation that the Department of Justice is
doing.  And this is something that the President has talked about during
his campaign, making sure that they have that independence — the
Department of Justice has that independence as it relates to
investigations.   
  
And we’re just not going to comment any further.   
  
Q    And on tomorrow’s speech, does the President plan to talk
specifically about Donald Trump in the speech tomorrow?  And does he
feel, like — you know, when he’s talking about the battle over democracy
in this country, does he feel like things are moving in the right
direction, the wrong direction?  What can you tell us of what the
President is going to talk about tomorrow?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I don’t want to — I don’t want to get ahead of the
President’s speech.  It’s not a good thing to do, as you know.   
  
But, you know, the President thinks that there is an extremist threat to
our democracy.  The President has been clear as he can be on that
particular piece.  When we talk about our democracy, when we talk about
our freedoms, the way that he sees it is the MAGA Republicans are the
most energized part of the Republican Party.  That extreme — this is an
extreme threat to our democracy, to our freedom, to our rights.   
  
They just don’t respect the rule of law.  You’ve heard that from the
President.  And, you know, they are pursuing an agenda that takes away
people’s rights, so — which is what the President said last week on
Thursday.  You all heard him.  This is what the President said
yesterday.  And that’s what he’s going to continue to say.   
  
And here’s the thing: The President is not going to shy away to call out
what he clearly sees is happening in this country.  And, you know,
again, MAGA Republicans are this extreme part of their party, and that
is just facts.  And that’s what he’s going to continue to lay out.  
  
Q    On the speech tomorrow, can you explain a little bit the decision
to do this as a primetime event?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  The President takes what he’s talking about — again,
not to go into — not to go into specifics about the speech — but, as you
know, we’re calling it the “soul of the nation.”  He takes that very
seriously when we — when it comes to our democracy.   
  
As you might remember, the President laid out his thesis — right? — the
foundation for what he calls the “soul of the nation” — fighting for the
soul of the nation, the battle of the soul of the nation — in an
Atlantic op-ed back in August of 2017.  And again, that is the thesis,
that is the foundation, when you read that article.   
  
And that’s what he talked about during the campaign.  That’s what he
talked about during his inaugural — Inauguration Day.  And not only are
we fighting for the soul of the nation, but we need to continue to be
vigilant.   
  
And, you know, there’s a clear through line if you — if you read that
article and you look at what — the speeches that he’s made.  So that
article talked about Charlottesville.  You think about January 6th.  I
mentioned the Inauguration.  You think about what we’re seeing today. 
You think about the battle that continues.   
  
And so — but what the President believes, which is a reason to have this
in primetime, is that there are an overwhelmingly amount of Americans —
majority of Americans — who believe that we need to continue — we need
to save the core values of our — of our country.  
  
Q    And on last night’s filing, you have said in the past that the
President was not briefed ahead of time on other aspects of the
investigation.  So just to be clear: Was the President briefed on this
latest development yesterday?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  The President has not been briefed on this latest
development.  He has not been briefed on anything that’s connected to
this particular criminal investigation, which is — we’re not going to
comment.  Again, it’s an independent investigation.  At this time, we’re
just not going to comment on it.  We are going to let the Department of
Justice continue its — its independent investigation.   
  
Q    Karine, the President yesterday weighed in pretty forcefully about
threats to the FBI and FBI agents.  Is he satisfied, is the White House
satisfied that FBI agents are getting the protection that they need as a
result of these threats?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, you know, just like the President, just want to
say this — and the President spoke to this very forcefully, very clearly
yesterday, as you all heard him: He’s rejected defunding the police.  He
rejects defunding other law enforcement, including the FBI.  The
President has called for boosting police funding through the COPS
program and hiring 100,000 additional officers.  He also included over
$10.8 billion for the FBI in the most recent budget.   
  
And so, the — the way that he believes this and we have said is that the
men and women who bravely serve in law enforcement to keep us safe, to
keep our community safe, to keep our country safe deserve the resources
and support they need to do their jobs, and not seeing their budget
slashed.  
  
So, he has provided additional funding, and he wants to make sure that
they are kept safe.  I cannot speak to what — you know, specifically
what they’re seeing and how — you know, what they’re seeing at the FBI. 
I would refer you to them specifically on what potential — you know,
what’s coming in as — as far as their protection.  But clearly, this is
something that’s important for the President, which is why he’s included
it in his budget.  
  
Q    Okay.  On a separate topic, what — what additional assistance is
the White House planning for Ukraine?  And will you need congressional
approval for funding that additional package?   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, as you know, $40 billion was approved by Congress,
in a bipartisan way, of as- — of assistance not too long ago.  We
announced — well, under this President’s leadership, we’ve provided
unprecedented amount — about $13.5 billion — in security assistance.   
  
And — and the assistance that most recently was announced — last week, I
believe — will begin in the next several months and continue over the
coming years.  It’s intended to support Ukraine’s defense capabilities
for the long term.   
  
So you’ve already seen our commitment to Ukraine for the long term, as
it’s related to what we announced last week, which is about $3 billion,
which was the largest once — once — at-once tranche that we’ve
announced.   
  
And, you know, we’re going to continue to meet both the urgent and the
long-term needs.  And that’s what you saw from the — the most recent —
the most recent announcement.  
  
Look, just that announcement and the announcement prior to that, it’s
about 19 presidential draw — drawdown of security <s>assistant</s>
\[assistance\].  That was the one before the $3 billion.  That was the
one before the $3 billion was — the presidential drawdown.  That’s —
that was the 19.   
  
So you have seen consistent support for Ukraine.  We have always said we
have been incredibly impressed by their bravery and what they’ve been
able to do to fight for their freedom, to fight for their democracy, and
that’s important for folks to know.   
  
This has been a bipartisan effort, and all because of an unprovoked,
brutal war that was started by the Kremlin.  So, we’re going to conti- —
you’re going to continue to see those efforts.  And we are in daily
conversation with the Ukrainian government on what else their needs
might be.   
  
Q    And lastly, will the U.S. send a representative to Mikhail
Gorbachev’s funeral or do anything else to commemorate his death?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So I don’t — I don’t have anything to preview or to
announce at this time on that piece.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Just back to yesterday’s speech from the President.  He obviously
was critical of some senior lawmakers, he said, for saying things to the
effect of “If such and such happens, there will be blood in the
street.”  He was obviously also very clear that any threats, attacks on
the FBI law enforcement agents — that those were not acceptable.   
  
Given all of that, I’m just wondering whether the President would be
open to having direct conversations with some senior lawmakers, some of
whom he has known for many years, to tell them to cut it out.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So I don’t have any calls to preview  
or any conversation on this specific subject.  As you know, we try to
keep our conversations with lawmakers private, and so nothing there to
preview or to add.   
  
Look, you know, we have been — long been clear that when the Department
of Justice independence — sorry that the Department of Justice and the
FBI — you know, as I just said, like, we need to — we need to not attack
our brave men and women who protect our country and who protect our
communities.  And you just heard me lay down what funding this President
has put forward and has announced and — to do just that.   
  
So, you know, the President was just reemphasizing that violence or
threats of violence has absolutely no place — no place in our society,
which we should all agree on, regardless of the point of view.  It
doesn’t matter which side of the aisle that you’re sitting on, we need
to denounce that.  
  
And so, when you are inciting violence or when you are making comments
the way that we’ve heard over the weekend for some — from some
leadership and some members — members in elected office, that’s a
dangerous thing.  And the President is not going to shy away from
calling out — calling out those types of comments.  
  
Q    I guess, just without previewing specific conversations that may
have happened or could happen in the future, you know, if he believes
this kind of rhetoric is potentially harmful or dangerous to law
enforcement, you know, does he feel that he has a responsibility to do
everything he can — actually, I think he made that very clear yesterday
— by, for example, again, reaching out to some of these members directly
and having that conversation with them?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, MJ, I hear your question, but all you have to do
is turn on the TV and hear from the President directly on how he feels
about what he’s hearing.  And he’s been very clear about that.   
  
And again, he’s not going to shy away.  He believes — and I have said
this a couple of times at this podium at this point — is, as President,
he has the obligation to speak out against threats against our
democracy, against violence.  It is — he believes, as President, you
have the — you have the strongest platform, if you will, the strongest
voice, and that’s what he’s going to continue to do.  
  
Again, he’s not going to step away from it.  He’s not going to shy away
from that.  I think any of those legislators or any of those elected
officials, all they have to do — I’m sure they have seen the clip over
and over again from your network and others about what the President has
said yesterday and how forceful he was, how passionate he was.  And
that’s just — that is going to continue.  
  
Q    And just one more quickly on tomorrow —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  One last one.  Go ahead.  (Laughs.)  Yeah.  
  
Q    Just given that, you know, you all have billed it as being related
to the battle for the soul of America, which is something that he
obviously ran on back in 2020 — the threats to democracy that he
obviously saw as being very real two, three years ago, does he believe
that those forces are very much still at large now?  Or does he believe
that there has been some progress since he came into office?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, he believes that it continues.  He believes that
we need to continue to fight for our democracy.  And he’s been very
clear.  You look at the extreme wing of a party — the MAGA Republicans —
it’s not stopping.  It is continuing.  And we heard it over the weekend,
as you’re asking me about the President talking directly with
legislators.   
  
And this is — this is an important time.  And he is — again, he’s not
going to shy away from it.  He’s going to continue to lift that up and
what he sees and what he’s going to call out.  And, you know, he
believes that there are a majority of Americans who disagree with that,
who disagree on the attack of our core values as a country, and he’s
going to speak directly to them tomorrow.  That’s what you’re going to
hear.  
  
Okay.  Go ahead, Nancy.  And then I’m going to come to the back and then
I’ll come —  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  Over the past week or so, we’ve heard many
Republicans argue that this President ran as a uniter and now he’s
calling MAGA Republicans, which is a very large swath of the American
populace, semi-fascists.  He is arguing that they’re a threat to
democracy.  Does the White House believe that this is a fair criticism
by Republicans that this is not unifying language?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I’ll say this, Nancy: Sadly, there are more
examples than I can count on how we have seen recently armed attacks on
federal law enforcement.   
  
There are a couple of things I just want to say here.   
  
You have Representative Paul Gosar has posted videos depicting him
attacking the President and members of Congress.   
  
You have Representative Majority \[sic\] Tay- — Marjorie Taylor Greene
has publicly expressed support for shooting prominent Democratic elected
officials and suggesting physically assaulting transgender school
officials.   
  
You have Representative Madison Cawthorn has said, falsely, “If our
election systems continue to be rigged and continue to be stolen, then
it’s going to lead to one place, and that’s bloodshed.”   
  
And just last week, you had Governor Ron DeSantis suggested that Dr.
Fauci should be physically assaulted.  And former President Trump has
done the same many, many times.   
  
Look, and many of your colleagues have actually talked about and
reported on this dangerous trend that we’re seeing.  And — for example,
the New York Times headline from this month — “As Right-Wing Rhetoric
Escalates, So Do Threats and Violence.”  
  
And so, these are things that we have to call out.  
  
Again, I was talking — I can’t remember who just asked me the question —
I was talking about soul of the nation, something the President has
talked about since 2017 when he wrote that article in The Atlantic.  And
he’s called it out then.  He called it out January 6th.  He called it
out Inauguration Day.  He called it out last week.  He called it out
yesterday.   
  
So there has been a consistent callout from the President about what
he’s seeing from an extreme part of — of this party, of the Republican
Party.  And historians, I would argue, would say the same.  
  
Q    I have a question about Jackson, Mississippi.  You talked about the
help that’s coming from FEMA and the disaster declaration, but, clearly,
Jackson is going to need an entirely new water system.  They’ve been
having big problems even before this latest crisis.  What kinds of
federal resources are being dedicated, can be dedicated to what could be
a billion-dollar price tag to provide Jackson with an entirely new water
system?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, a couple of things.  As we’ve said, the
administration is — is committed to helping the people of Mississippi
during this urgent — urgent time of need.  And so, we’re going to
prioritize that and making the long — and making the long-term
infrastructure investment needed to all to — to ensure all Americans
just across — across — have access across the country, but, clearly, in
the state have access to clean water.  So that is something that we’re
committed — that long-term — that long-term need.  
  
So, just a couple of things just to list out that we have provided and
that we are doing from the federal government:  
  
$450 million was provided through the American Rescue Plan for water
upgrades across the state.  The city has allocated $20 million of its
ARP — that American Rescue Plan funds — for water and sewer
infrastructure needs.   
  
You have $75 million through the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law to
support the state to provide clean and safe water this year, with an
additional $429 million available to the state over the next five
years.  
  
There is $30.9 million through the EPA’s revolving loan funds for
treatment and distribution system improvements for Jackson, Mississippi,
specifically.   
  
For — again, for long-term support, earlier this year, we announced
$300,000 as part of the administration’s Just- — Justice40 Initiative
for the Army Corps to conduct a validation study to reduce flooding from
the Pearl River in Ja- — Jackson, Mississippi.  
  
So, we continue to work with Mississippi’s congressional delegation to
improve the projects moving forward.  But as you can see, we’re
committed and we’re going to continue to help the people in
Mississippi.  
  
I’m going to go to the back, and then I’ll come back up.  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you, Karine.  On Iran, the EU’s foreign policy chief said
this morning that he expects a deal in the coming days.  Is this also
your assessment?  And is this maybe the reason why the President had a
call with Israeli Prime Minister Lapid today?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, let me give you a little bit about Lapid.  We’ll
have — we’ll have a readout momentarily on that.   
  
So the President spoke with the —  
  
Q    You already sent it.  It went out already.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  It was already?  Okay, there we go.  You guys are
ahead of the game.  I think I’m thinking about something else.  Okay.  
  
The President spoke with Prime Minister Lapid this morning to consult on
global and regional security challenges, including threats posed by Iran
and Iran-backed proxies.  
  
The President expressed appreciation for the warm reception during his
July trip to Israel — a visit that — a visit that illustrated the
unbreakable bonds and friendship between our two countries.  He also
committed to sustained coordination to implement the announced trip
deliverables.  The President further emphasized the importance of
conduct- — concluding the maritime boundary negotiations between Israel
and Lebanon in the coming weeks.  
  
As it relates to the EU and — look, we’ve said many times from here
we’re just not going to negotiate in public.  As you know, last week we
conveyed our feedback about Iran’s comments on the EU’s proposal
directly to the EU.  And so, we’re not going to say more than that,
we’re not going to negotiate from here, and we’re not going to go into
details on contents or our response.  So, we’re going to keep it
there.  
  
Q    So the International Energy Agency summer report shows that the
Russian revenue from oil exports increased 40 percent from last year. 
It seems that the sanctions are not cutting off revenue to the Russian
president.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So this is exactly why — I think you’ve heard us say
this before — President Biden and the G7 leaders have directed relevant
members of their team to explore a mechanism to set a global price cap. 
You heard us talk about that when the President was in Europe — most
recently, in Germany.  And this would be for Russian oil and — and
starving Putin of his main source of cash and forcing down the price of
Russian oil to help blunt the impact of Putin’s war on the pump.  
  
So, it will be discussed further this week at the G7 Finance Ministers’
meeting.  This is happening on Friday.  
  
The U.S. has already taken strong action on — action to ban Russia oil,
and U.S. allies have announced plans to wind down their own imports of
Russian oil.  
  
But again, Putin, as you’ve heard us say, has continued to try to find
new markets for Russian oil.  This is the most effective way, we
believe, to fit — to hit hard at Putin’s revenue.  And doing so will
result in not only a drop in Putin’s oil revenue but also global energy
prices as well.  
  
Q    But why not signal the policy change for long-term support to oil —
open oil production here at the U.S. or natural gas pipelines here in
the U.S. to undercut the Russian supply of oil on the global market?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, look, we think that working with our allies in
making this announcement, this price cap on Russian oil, is going to be
very effective.   
  
Again, you’ve heard directly — you heard the President speak about this
very recently.  We’ll hear more on Friday how this is going to work. 
And it is not just us; it is also a partnership with our allies, the
G7.  
  
So, again, we believe this is going to be a — a way to really hit Russia
financially.  And so, that’s kind of the process that we’re going to
take moving forward.  And also, as you know, we’ve taken — we’ve also
taken actions already that we think has had an effect.  
  
But again, as we know, as I just stated, Russia is always looking at
other markets, which is why doing this particular piece, we think, will
be effective.  
  
Q    But those other markets are China and India.  Is the President then
going to use his relationship to stand up to China and India and say,
“Stop buying oil from Russia”?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Look, we’ve been also very clear about that.  I don’t
have anything more to add.  
  
But, again, we think by doing these price caps is going to hit Russia in
a way that is going to be the most effective.   
  
So, again, the G7 finance ministries are meeting on Friday to talk more
about that, and we’ll have more to share.  
  
Okay.  Go ahead, Phil.  I haven’t called on you in a bit.  And then I’ll
come down.  
  
Q    When it comes to voters, how does the President differentiate
between the ultra-MAGA folks who he sees as an extremist threat to
democracy and the average GOP voter?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, can’t talk about voters from here, as you know.  
  
Q    (Inaudible) average individuals.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No — oh, no.  I get you.  Not going to — I just need
to say that, right?  Just to — just to be clear.  
  
I mean, the President has been — has been really clear about the
leadership — right? — the MAGA Republicans in leadership.  They’re the
ones who have the platform.  They’re the ones who — again, the extremist
part of the Republican Party; they’re the ones who, you know, folks
listen to in their own party.   
  
And by inciting violence, by trying to take away — they’re the ones who
are the legislators and trying to take away our rights, trying to take
away our freedoms.  And that’s who the President is speaking to. 
Right?  He’s being very targeted in that way and calling that out and
saying, you know, “We can’t allow our democracy to be attacked in this
way.”  
  
And they have a responsibility — right? — they have a responsibility in
how they’re doing their business on behalf of their constituents.  
  
Q    So, for folks sitting at home, when the President is talking about
preserving the soul of the nation and these threats to democracy, he’s
not referring to those individuals; he’s talking about Republican
leadership?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, let me be — be very clear: It’s not just
Republican leadership.  It’s not just that blanket.  Right?  He is
talking about an extre- — an extreme portion, like extreme part of the
party.  He’s been very, very clear about that.  
  
He was just in Maryland, as you all know, and he talked about Governor
Larry Hogan and talked about how he is a conservative Republican who
does not — who is not in that bucket.  Right?  He was very clear, and he
was very purposeful in saying that and being respectful to conservative
Republicans who are not part of that extreme.  
  
So, again, I want to be very clear here: This is not a blanket
statement.  This is calling out what we have seen for some time, since
2017, as the President wrote about in his article.  Right?  
  
When you are — when you are supporting an authoritarian figure, as we
have seen, who is leading — currently leading — the former — the former
President, you know, and — and saying the — inciting the violence that
you are or wanting to take away our freedoms, you know, it — we need to
say something.  He’s not going to shy away from that.  
  
Q    Thank you, Karine.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Karine, now that the FDA has authorized this new COVID booster, can
you say whether the administration is confident you’ll have enough of
these new boosters for everyone who wants one?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, to answer your question, yes, because we have
planned for this.  But want to say a couple of things about the FDA.   
  
So, the announcement is an important step to getting updated COVID
vaccine boosters, which we expect to provide additional protection
against the variants of COVID circulating in the U.S. to the American
people while we wait for the CDC to make its clinical recommendation. 
So, there’s still another step, so we want to be very clear about
that.   
  
We’ve been working for months to be prepared for this moment and to get
shots into arms this fall and through the end of the year, so we are
prepared to do that.  
  
So, with FDA’s authorization, doses can be shipped now to tens of
thousands of sites nationwide and shots in arms can start as soon as
possible after CDC issues its recommendation later this week.  All
states have ordered doses already.  So there has been some orders that
have been done.   
  
And to make sure vaccines get to communities quickly, primary care
providers at community health centers and rural health clinics across
the country are able to order vaccine directly from federal government,
and long-term care pharmacy networks can also order a vaccine directly. 
And as we work to ensure that our highest riks \[sic\] — risk Americans
get protected.  
  
Teams have already started the process of packing and shipping doses
across the country.  And pending, again, CDC action, we expect shots in
arms to begin in earnest starting after Labor Day weekend.  
  
We’ve been working with providers, clini- — clinicians, local health
departments, and other critical groups to vaccinate — for vaccination
efforts.  And we’ve been doing all of this preparation despite the lack
of funding from Congress.  But we have been prepared for this particular
moment to make sure that we get shots in arms.   
  
Q    So even given that lack of funding, you feel you’ll have the supply
— you’ll be able to get enough doses to get to everybody who wants
one?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  So, again, despite the — the Congress failing
to provide us with funding that would have bolstered our campaign,
clearly, we’re not — you know, that would have happened — we’ve been
preparing by working closely, again, with local — local departments,
clinicians, and other groups.   
  
Look, we’re still leveraging a comprehensive public education program,
as I’ve just stated.   
  
But look, the bottom line is: Despite a failure for — by Congress to act
— as we’ve been asking, as you know, for the past several months — we’ve
prepared with resources so we can meet the moment with these — with
these boosters.  
  
Q    And if I could just follow up real quick on the student loan
announcement from last week.  We’ve been hearing from some loan
servicers and advocacy groups who are concerned that there’s not going
to be enough time in this four-month period to get everybody’s
applications processed and their balances adjusted before repayment
starts.  I guess, could you kind of respond to that concern?  And then
is there anything the White House could do?  Maybe extend the pause if
all those balances haven’t been adjusted by January 1st?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So just want to — you know, just want to reiterate
that this is a priority for the President.  This is a priority for the
Secretary of Education.  You’ve heard them both say that.   
  
And look, there’s also — we’ve got experience here.  They’ve got
experience with this.  The Department of Education has already canceled
$32 billion in student loan debt for over 1.6 million borrowers, which
has never happened before, which is unprecedented.  That has happened in
the last 19 months.   
  
And so, you know, the administration will be launching a simple
application — just to go down through the process — by early October for
folks who don’t know.  If you would like to be notified when the
application is open, you can go to the StudentAid.gov to sign up for
notifications.   
  
Once a borrower completes the application, they can expect relief within
four to six weeks.  That’s what we are — have determined.  
  
Borrowers are advised to apply before November 15 — so there are — there
is a deadline there — in order to receive relief before the payment
pause expires on December 31st, as you all know, this year.  
  
The Department of Education will continue to process applications as
they rec- — as they are received, even after the pause expires on
December 31st.   
  
But again, just to — we are encouraging people to do it before November
15th.   
  
We — and we are going to do everything that we can.  The Department of
Education is — has been committed to doing this, and there is precedent
for them doing that for 1.6 million Americans previously.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  On a speech tomorrow, will the President be
outlining any new policies or proposals designed to safeguard democracy
or protect voting rights?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So I’m — I’m not going to go into details into his
speech.  I will not get ahead of the President.  You know, I talked a
little bit about the soul of the nation and what he’s talked about
before.  And I’m just not going to get into further details of the
speech itself.   
  
Q    And on Mississippi, does the President have any plans or is there
any discussion about him going down there to personally meet with people
who are affected by this?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Nothing to — nothing to read out or preview about a
trip to Mississippi at this time.   
  
Q    And will he speak to the governor personally?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  As I — as I stated, the FEMA administrator spoke —
spoke to the governor, I believe, last night.  The President, this
morning, spoke to the mayor, as you — as you all know.  And we’re just
going to be in close touch from our administration to theirs to local —
and the local governments — local folks as well to make sure that they
have the need that they — they have the — the resources that they
need.  
  
Go ahead, Peter.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  There’s a big problem now that “rainbow fentanyl,”
which is designed to target children, has been found in 18 states.  What
specifically is the President doing about this?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, we just talked about the day — the Overdose
Awareness Day that — that we are observing today.  I just laid out what
the Second Gentleman and others are doing with — within this
administration.   
  
And, you know, we are going to continue to focus on the steps that we’re
taking, that we have taken.  You have the $80 million that DHS just
announced today on drug prevention.  And the President has taken many
steps; he’s made this a priority to make sure that we attack a very
dangerous — very dangerous drugs, serious drugs in this country.  
  
Q    But 300 overdoses a day now.  We know how the fentanyl is coming
into the country; it’s coming right across the southern border.  The DEA
administrator says so.  So when is the President going to do something
more to stop this?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I will say that we have seen a 200 percent
increase of fentanyl seizures, which means that we are — we are doing
the job of catching drug traffickers.  Two hundred percent — hold on —
two hundred percent increase —  
  
Q    But Americans’ —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — just, again, seizures.  
  
Q    — life expectancies are going down at a rate not seen in a century,
and part of that is being driven by drug overdoses.  So what is the
President going to do to stop it?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  And we have — we agree.  We agree.  We see those some
— same numbers as well.   
  
But the fact that we’re — you know, we are securing the border.  The
fact that we are securing record levels of funding from DHS so they can
stop illicit drugs from entering into the country.  The fact that it’s
not just drug traffickers that we’re dealing with as well; we’re
stopping — stopping financiers.  This is what’s happening with this —
under this administration.  
  
Look —  
  
Q    But it’s not —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  But, look —  
  
Q    — being stopped.  Three hundred overdoses.  This has been designed
to target —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I —  
  
Q    — children.  Drug cartels in Mexico —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I hear you.  
  
Q    — want to kill American kids.  What is this President doing about
it?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I hear you.  I just — I just laid out: 200 percent of
— increase of drug, fentanyl seizures.  That is a dangerous drug that we
are taking off the street.  We are going to continue to focus.  This is
an important, important priority for this President.   
  
And I just want to talk about how you’re saying that they’re — you know,
they’re just — the border, right?  And how the border — whatever you
just stated — I just want to clear this up.  Migrants who —  
  
Q    People are coming in.  Fentanyl is coming in.  People are dying.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Hold — hold on.  So migrant — migrants who attempted
to enter the country illegal — illegally are taken into custody by
Border Patrol agents.  That is how it works.  That is the process that
we are taking.  They are then either expelled by the court order under
Title 42, transferred to ICE custody, or monitored through Alternatives
to Detention Program as they await further processing.   
  
We have made 3,000 arrests in the first three months of launching an
aggressive campaign to combat the multi-billion-dollar human smuggling
industry.  
  
When it comes to — when it comes to what’s happening with drug overdose:
This is something that the President cares about.  This is something
that the President has laid out a plan to make sure that our kids; our
babies; our, you know, young Americans here in this country are not
continuing to suffer from that, are not continuing to be given — or
access to drugs.  This is something that’s incredibly important to this
President.   
  
So to say that we’re not doing enough, Peter, is just falsely,
categorically wrong, especially on a day that we are observing what
needs to be done.  And — and we have announced — DHS has announced $80
million to prevent that.  So we are doing the work.   
  
And here’s the thing, Peter, if — look, if Republicans want to help us
stop overdose and stop our kids getting overdose because of these
dangerous drugs, because of these fentanyl that we’re seeing in the
streets, we’re happy to work with them.  But they’re not.   
  
I’m moving on, Peter.  
  
Q    But just one —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m moving on.  I’m moving on.   
  
Go ahead.  Go ahead, Karen.  No, Karen can go.   
  
Q    Yeah.  Karine, who’s the audience for tomorrow’s speech in
Philadelphia?  How are people selected to attend?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — oh, the aud- — the folks in the room?  
  
Q    Yeah, who he is the speaking in front of.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  You know, I don’t have that information for you. 
Clearly, he’s going to be — folks from the Philly area who will be
clearly participants — that’s normally how we do events.  We invite
local leaders.  We invite local — you know, local residents to the event
to watch the President speak.   
  
I don’t have a full list or full way of our process, but that’s normally
how we do our events.   
  
As you know — as you know, you’ve attended some of our events and it’s
usually people connected to the party or people — not party — but
connected to elected officials locally and the state as well.  
  
Q    And on the CDC booster, specifically as it relates to the
President, if the CDC director — excuse me, the new boosters — if the
CDC director signs off on the boosters as expected tomorrow and they do
start rolling out next week, can we expect the President to get his
booster shot next  
week?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So I don’t have any dates to announce yet on — on when
he will get it.  But obviously, the President was just infected with
Omicron, and is really well protected, as you all know, right now
against — against COVID.   
  
So CDC has always provided that guidance on timing for boosters as it
relates to prior infection.  And they’ll do that here as well, as it
relates to the President and your question.   
  
But he will absolutely get his updated booster and will encourage
eligible Americans to do the same when — when he’s able to.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you, Karine.  Just a — on Jackson, again.  Just to follow up
— I know you’ve been asked a couple times about it.  But in a January
speech, the President singled out Jackson, Mississippi, as well as
Flint, as two communities that could be benefited from the
infrastructure package and specifically men- — mentioned their water
system.  Does the administration still believe that Jackson, through the
infrastructure package, can receive the funds that it needs to actually
fully replace its water system?   
  
And just a follow-up to that is: What is the timeline?  I know the money
is on the way.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    You guys have released statements saying the funding is on the
way.  But what is the timeline for residents on the ground to actually
start feeling the impact of that infrastructure package funding?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So the impact — when it comes to them getting — the
residents getting their water back, clearly, we want them — that
timeline to happen as soon as possible, and so that is our hope, rather
— sooner rather than later.   
  
And so, we’re going to continue — we are committed to — to work with the
people of Jackson and the state of Mississippi during this urgent time
of need, as we just said, on making that happen because that’s
imperative and important for people to have clean water and running
water.   
  
Look, I just listed out a number of — of items from the American Rescue
Plan — $450 million.  Twenty million of that was given to the city and
that was through the American Rescue Plan, and that was for water and
sewer infrastructure needs.   
  
So, already, that funding was given to the city to deal with that
imperative, that really important need — $75 million.  As we talk about
the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, $75 million was given to support the
state to provide clean and safe water for this year.  And so — with an
additional $429 million available to the state over the next five
years.   
  
So you see that long-term commitment that’s coming from the Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law.  And as it relates — another piece of that, which is
coming through EPA’s revolving loan funds — funds that we see for
treatment and distribution system that we saw 30- — $30.9 million going
to Jackson specifically.   
  
So we are committed.  The funds have been provided.  We are going to
continue to work with the cities, and we’re going to continue to work
with the state.   
  
As you know, Mitch Landrieu is the — is the coordinator for the
Bipartisan Infrastructure Law.  He is a former mayor, as you all know,
from New Orleans, in Louisiana, so — which is very close to
Mississippi.  Clearly, he is committed to this.  He’s traveled around
the country, meeting — meeting with electeds, meeting with folks on the
ground on how — on how things are going and how we can be helpful.  
  
As far as the date or a timeline, I don’t have that for you.  But
clearly, we have — I just listed out our commitment and where the
fundings and the money has gone to the state of Mississippi and Jackson
as well.   
  
Q    When residents in these communities are — hear those numbers,
they’re going to be wondering why does this keep happening then.  So, I
mean, has the administration identified any impediments, whether it’d be
the formula-based funding or the actual state process of implementing
these funds that —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So —  
  
Q    — that actually prevent the impact from being felt immediately?   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  It’s a very good question.  And if I were — if we were
in the community, we would be frustrated as well, which is why the
Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, as I just laid out, has a — there’s —
there — there’s an initial funding, and it goes for the next five
years.  Right?  That is a long-term investment that you are seeing from
this administration to the folks in Mississippi and to the people in
Jackson.  
  
So, again, we’re going to continue to work with the, you know, local
elected officials to see what else we can do to be helpful.  We are — we
are remaining to want to assist the — you know, the community as they’re
going through this really tough time.   
  
But you have seen the financial commitment.  You have seen how the funds
for the Infrastructure Law, as you were asking specifically, has been
allocated.  And not just that, the American Rescue Plan, as well.  
  
And we’re going to have the — we’re going to continue to have that
conversation.  
  
Q    And I just have a quick one.  Is there a specific date for when the
application opens for student loan relief at this point?  And why the,
kind of, lag time — the delay in actually having a system set up, given
there was a lot of time taken to deliberate over this decision?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, as I just stated just moments ago, there — there —
we’re going to have — we’re going to have more from the Department of
Education to be notified when the application is open.   
  
And again, we’re going to — we — we have a website that people can go
to, StudentAid.gov, to sign up for notification.  So those notifications
will go — will go up, and borrowers will have — will have to complete
that expectation.  And it’ll be within four to six weeks.  We — which is
a good amount of time to make sure that they — that they apply before
November 15th.   
  
But it doesn’t just end there, right?  We have said that the Department
of Education will continue to process application, even as they are
received, even after the pause expires on December 31st.   
  
So we’re going to continue to work with borrowers, but we — we do have
to put a plan in place so that folks know how — how the process works. 
Again, they can go to the ­­– to the website and apply, get those
notifications.  And we have been giving out information on how the
process can work.   
  
This is not the first time.  We’ve done this before — right? — with this
— in this administration.  Those — that $32 billion in student loan debt
that we were able to — to cancel.  
  
So the Department of Education — there’s a precedent here.  The
Department of Education knows how to work this through.  And we’re — we
are committed to make sure that folks get the information and get the
need that they — they get the need —  
  
Q    Just to be clear, there’s no date yet, though?  There’s no date yet
for —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, for the application?  
  
Q    Yeah.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, I don’t have a date here to share with you, but
that’s something that the Secre- — the Department of Education is
following through.  We’ve laid out our process.  We’ve laid out the
timeline.  We have said we’re going to continue to process application
even after the pause on December 31st, and we’re committed to that.   
  
Again, this is not the first time; there’s precedent for this.  We have
— this particular administration — Department of Education — has done
this before.   
  
I’m going to continue.  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Oh, yeah.  On the event yesterday in Pennsylvania, the President
explicitly campaigned for certain people.  And correct me if I’m wrong,
but I believe it was an official White House event, not a campaign
event.  Can you share some context on your thoughts on that?  Because he
was very explicitly saying, “Please elect certain people.”  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So the President can say a lot — can a lot further
than I can from here.  He does not have — he is not bounded by the Hatch
Act the way that we are.  And so — so I’ll say that first.   
  
And I don’t have much more to add because I’m always — even myself, I
try to be very, very careful from here.  But again, he is in a different
category than we all are here.  And I’ll just leave it as that.  
  
Q    It was an official event, correct?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  It was — it was an official event.  Tomorrow night
will be an official event as well.  
  
Go ahead.  I haven’t — I know.  I was supposed to call you last time and
I didn’t.  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you, Karine.  So yesterday, during his speech, the President
reiterated what he sees as a serious need to pass an assault weapons
ban.  This is, of course, something he said before; that’s not new.  But
as he continues to push for this, how does he expect that to happen
realistically with the way things are in Congress?  And what
specifically is he doing, if anything, to help change that?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  You know, so I’ll say this: You know, the Pre- — look,
the President is going to continue to call on Congress.  As you know,
when it comes to the assault weapons ban, that is something that is
important to the President.  He was one of the leaders of that 30 years
ago — the assault weapons ban back in 1994.   
  
And again, he has been trying to work on — work on bringing back the
assault weapons ban after it sunset in — 10 years after.  And he’s done
that as Vice President and he’s doing that now.  
  
A couple of things that I do want to say is: When it comes to actions
that he’s taken, he’s had more executive actions dealing with — dealing
with gun violence than any other President at this time.  When the
Bipartisan Law passed to deal with — to deal with gun violence just
recently, just a couple of months ago, many people said that wouldn’t
happen, and it happened.  
  
So, many people have said we couldn’t get things done, and we got it
done.  So, the President — as you heard him say, he is determined to do
that.  He’s determined to make that happen.  He’s going to continue
doing the work that he has done for the past 19 months and having those
conversations with Congress — congressional members in — in calling for
them to take action.  
  
And we have seen the House take action, which many didn’t think that was
going to happen either, and they took action on the assault weapons
ban.   
  
So we are a lot further, we would argue, under this administration,
dealing with gun violence, even dealing with pushing further the assault
weapons ban than we have been in 30 years.  And so, I think that says a
lot for this President’s leadership.  And that says a lot for what he’s
— his commitment in making sure that we protect our communities, we
protect kids going to school — right? — we protect people from going to
grocery stores — right?  — and not feel like they — their lives are in
danger.  It’s a first step, and there are many steps to take.  
  
Q    And lastly, with all the attention on the former President’s
handling of classified information — not asking you to comment on that
specifically — but can you say with certainty to the American people
that President Biden in his time as President has not mishandled,
improperly stored, done anything improper with classified information?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:   No.  And then I’m going to move on.  
  
Go ahead.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Thank you, Karine.  I have two questions, one on the
speech tomorrow and one on COVID.   
  
On the speech tomorrow: President Biden said in his victory speech in
November 2020 that he sought this office to restore the soul of the
nation.  So where does the White House believe the country is in that
restoration process?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, he has said this before — that it’s going to
take some work.  You have heard him say that.  You’ve heard us say
that.  But what he’s not going to do is shy away, again, from calling
out extremism that he is seeing — these MAGA Republicans.  He is not
going to shy away from that.  
  
Is there more work to do?  Absolutely.  Do we have to continue to
protect our democracy?  Yes, we do.  That is the reality that we’re in —
protect our freedom; you know, protect our rights.  And that’s what he’s
going to continue to do day in and day out.  And you’re going to
continue to hear that from him not just Thursday, not just yesterday,
but that message is going to continue.  
  
Q    And on COVID, many employers have robust return-to-office plans
that will begin after Labor Day.  And just yesterday, some Wall Street
banks announced that they are going to be ending entirely testing,
vaccination, masking requirements.  How would the White House respond to
those companies?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I leave that the — up to — to the companies to decide
what’s right for — decide what’s right for their employees.  Clearly,
there’s CDC guidance that we always recommend people to follow, but I
leave that to the private — private organization.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    I have a domestic question and an international question.  First of
all, how does the President plan to commemorate 9/11 this year?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  That’s a very good question.  Don’t have anything to
preview at this time.  And when we will, we’ll share that.  
  
Q    And then, moving on to Venezuela.  A U.S. citizen detained in
Venezuela has said on the record, quote, “Our government has abandoned
us.”  So how does the administration respond to a statement like that? 
What is the administration doing to try to get the 10 Americans who are
detained in Venezuela out?  Is a prisoner exchange possibly in the
cards?  And, you know, how are you working that?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  You’re talking about — the person is talking about our
government, right?  Not the Venezuela —  
  
Q    Yes.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  I have not seen that reporting.  I’ll say this:
You know, we try — we’re very careful in not negotiating in public and
being mindful of not putting any — you know, any lives at — more at
risk, so I’m just not going to share anything further from here at this
time.  
  
Oh, gosh.  I’m going to go around.  Have I — okay.  Go ahead, and then
I’ll come — I’ll come back, guys.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  Can you talk a little bit — in regards to
tomorrow’s speech, can you talk a little bit about the timing?  You’ve
said a bunch of times that this is a theme that he’s discussed for many
years.  So why now is the time to do it in such a primetime fashion?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Because he thinks our democracy is at risk.  Because —
I mean, you know, when I talk about taking away our freedom, June 24th,
the decision from the Supreme — Supreme Court Justice on the Dobbs
decision — that was a decision to take away our constitutional right. 
That was an important — important moment for our country.  It put
women’s lives at risk.  And it’s not just, you know, reproductive
rights; it’s going to be other rights as well, as we heard from Supreme
Court Justice Thomas.  He made that very, very clear.  
  
And then, after that, we heard from leaders of the Republican Party
saying they wanted a national ban.   
  
So, we’ve seen recent efforts to take away our rights as Americans from
an extreme — again, an extreme part of — of their party — those MAGA
Republicans that you’ll — you’ll continue to hear us talk about.  And
so, that is continuing and it hasn’t stopped.  
  
And I just listed out what recently — what recently leadershi- — leaders
in Congress have said about attacking law enforcement individuals who
are — protect us; you know, attacking their own colleagues from the
other side of the aisle — that’s dangerous.  
  
Again, the President is not going to shy away from speaking up, from
speaking out.  And he is — it is very important for him to speak
directly to the American people, as I have said.  
  
And this is — kind of goes into Phil’s question.  He believes a majority
of Americans want to protect our democracy.  He believes a majority of
Americans wants to protect our freedom.  That’s where he believes the
majority of the country is, but we have to keep talking about it.  We
cannot shy away from it.  
  
Q    Can you talk — give any color of how he’s preparing for the
speech?  I mean, the guidance — the schedule today seemed not so full. 
I mean, is he spending much of his day, you know, going through drafts
with staff?  Is he practicing it?  What — kind of what’s, kind of, the
process —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, as you know, this is an important speech for the
President.  We’re talking about a theme, to your point, that he’s talked
about since 2017.  So, yes, he’s — he’s working through the speech with
his — with his senior advisors, with his staff.  He’s continuing to do
the business of the American people by meeting with staff on issues on
items that are critical and policies that we continue to work through to
make sure that we do the work.  He continues — always going to continue
to do the work of the American people.  
  
But, yes, to your point, he’s going to look at — he’s going to look at
drafts.  He’s going to write his speech, and you’ll hear directly from
him tomorrow.  
  
Okay.  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you, Karine.  Angola just had a very peaceful and
well-organized election last week.  And, as you said, the U.S. was
following and the results are there.  So, the for- — the President João
Lourenço was reelected, and I would like to hear the view of the White
House on the Angola elections.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, so don’t — don’t have anything more to add.  And
to your point, we congratulated — last week, on Friday, we congratulated
the people of Angola for making their voices heard.   
  
As we’re talking about democracy, as we’re talking about elections, this
is an important moment for the people in Angola.  We continue to observe
— we’re going to continue to observe the process.  I know I’ve said that
last week.  But I don’t — I just — I just don’t have more to add.  
  
And, you know, the United States supports the democratic process and —
through our ongoing democracy and governance programs by observing the
election, as we — as we’ve done.  And, you know, we share a partnership
with the country — with the country of Angola.  I don’t have more to say
to what I just added.  
  
Q    My other question is: As you know, President Biden announced a big
investment for Angola.  So, last time, he — you just told me that the
reason why is because they are seeing some progress in the country.  Can
you elaborate a little more about the view of the U.S. in Angola in the
last five years?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, as I was just saying that we see a partnership
with Angola, we will continue to work with them, with the government
closely — whoever, you know, the chosen government that the people
elected — to deepen our cooperation and shared priority.  So we’re going
to continue to do that.   
  
And, again, including democracy, as I’ve been talking about; including
economic and investment growth, global health security and public
health, and climate energy goals to create a better future for the — for
all Angolans.  And that is a commitment that you’ll hear, that you have
heard.  I think that’s what the President was saying to you on Friday.

And, again, we commend the people of Angola for making their voices
heard.  And that is important, that we see a democratic process
happening there.

Okay.  Oh, go ahead.  I’m sorry.  I haven’t called you.

Q    On the subject of the COVID booster shots, we’re now two and a half
years into a pandemic, lots of people are really tired of thinking about
COVID.  How will the administration convince people to get yet another
booster shot?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, we have learned — we have a lot of lessons
learned from how we started this — this process very early on in his
administration with the comprehensive strategy that we had in getting
shots in arms.

We know it works.  I talked about — a little bit about that already,
which is working closely with doctors and clinicians, making sure that
we’re having — educating folks on the ground on why this is important,
why this campaign on getting people this — this booster to folks and,
again, shot in arms.

And one of the things that we have seen that worked really, really well
is the trusted voices.  That is also an important thing that we have
seen.

But just a reminder that before we entered office, less than a third of
adults wanted to get a shot and more than 87 percent have at least one
today.  That is the product of the work we’ve done to reach folks
through trusted messengers and build access.  Those are two key factors
that we cannot forget. 

First, we’re planning a public education campaign, building on lessons
we’ve learned, as I just stated, and focus- — focusing on those most at
risk.  That’s always important here.

This will include leveraging deep partnerships, as I mentioned, across
sectors to meet people where they are and — and to — you know, and — and
just as a reminder: You know, to do this, HHS tests messages weekly,
surveying at least 1,500 people who are on the fence about getting their
booster shot and tracking shifts in trends, and works with trusted
messengers to communicate with the public.

And so we have a plan, and we’re going to ultimately use that plan. 
We’re going to leverage what we know worked before.  And we believe this
is an important moment for the American people.

But again, FDA made that decision.  CDC still has to make their
decision.  So we don’t want to get ahead of — ahead of this.  But we are
prepared, orders have already been made, and we’re going to make sure
that, you know, we get those shots in arms.

Q    Karine, one more?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  One more.  Oh, my gosh.  Who have I not called on in a
long time?

I’ve never seen you in the room before.  Go ahead.

Q    Hi.  Sophia with Axios.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.

Q    Hello.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Hello.  
Q    I’ll ask about the Hill and White House priorities on the Hill. 
Democrats have managed to pass the Inflation Reduction Act and CHIPS,
among other big bills.  Student loan forgiveness is costly.  I know the
White House has not projected an estimate yet.  But, you know, many take
this to see that — right? — like there may not be many more priorities
that involve Senator Manchin’s support.  What do you make of this? 

And, you know, if — if that’s not true, what is the White House priority
for the next, you know, legislative plan?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, Sophia, welcome to the Briefing Room.  Happy to
see you.

So, we’re focused on working with members of Congress of both parties
and — on government funding bills that’s — that that would invest in our
communities and people — and people, reduce cost for fam- — working
families, and help grow our economy from the bottom up and the middle
out, as you hear us say.  So, that’s something that’s coming up that
we’ll be very focused on in this administration and, clearly, with
congressional members.

We’re working with leadership in both chambers toward an efficient,
straight- — straightforward September work period.  And we know
Democratic appropriators have been working hard to prepare for that
particular legislative piece — that — the government funding — funding
bills.

And we’re going to press ahead with confirmations — don’t forget that;
that is also very important — including judicial confirmations,
continuing to put well-qualified judges on the bench that are devoted to
the rule of law and that represent the diversity of the — of our nation,
as you have seen historically done by this administration.

We’re also implementing the landmark laws we have passed, as you just
mentioned, for the middle class, which is the Infla- — including the
Inflation Reduction Act that’s already creating manufacturing jobs and
will lower many families’ biggest cost.  CHIPS, as you — as I’m sure
you’re thinking about, to bolster our competitiveness with China and
also keep bringing jobs back from overseas and more.

So there’s a lot to do — judicial; there’s the — there’s the government
funding bills; and there’s also making sure that we’re implementing
these historic pieces of legislation that were passed early on.

Q    Thank you, Karine.

Q    A follow-up on —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We got to go.  We got to go.  But I’ll be back
tomorrow, guys.  Thank you, everybody.

Q    Karine, is the President tracking the situation in Ethiopia?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Why don’t you come back and talk to us, and we’ll
answer that.  But I also — but I also will come — I’ll be back tomorrow
too.

Q    Okay.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Come on up, Simon.  Come on up.

4:08 P.M. EDT
