---
date: '2022-08-24'
modified_time: 2022-08-24 18:36:30-04:00
published_time: 2022-08-24 18:36:29-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2022/08/24/background-press-call-by-senior-administration-officials-on-student-loan-relief/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Background Press Call by Senior Administration Officials on Student Loan\_\
  Relief"
---
 
   
Via Teleconference

MR. HASAN:  Hi, everyone, this is Abdullah from the White House.  Thanks
for joining today’s background briefing on the student loans
announcement.  As you may have seen just before this call, the President
will have more to say on this at 2:15 p.m. today. 

As a reminder, this call is on background and attributable to a senior
administration official.  There is no embargo.

For your awareness but not for reporting purposes, joining us for the
call today are \[senior administration official\] and \[senior
administration official\]. 

With that, I will turn it over to \[senior administration official\].

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Hi.  Good morning, everyone.  Thanks
for joining us today.  We wanted to provide some background and walk you
through the plan that the President recently announced.

President Biden believes that a post-high school education should be a
ticket to a middle-class life.  But for too many, the cost of borrowing
for college is a lifelong burden that deprives them of that opportunity.

During the campaign, the President promised to provide targeted student
debt relief.  And today, the Biden administration is following through
on that promise with a plan that will benefit tens of millions of
middle-class Americans, their families, and the economy as a whole.

Over the last 40 years, the total cost of both four-year public and
four-year private colleges have nearly tripled, even after accounting
for inflation.  At the same time, federal support has not kept up.  Pell
Grants once covered nearly 80 percent of the cost of a four-year public
college degree, but now they only cover a third.

All of this has left many students from low- and middle- income families
with no choice but to borrow if they want to get a degree.

This skyrocketing federal student loan debt burden — $1.6 trillion and
rising — for more than 45 million borrowers is a financial weight on
America’s middle class.  Middle-class borrowers struggle with high
monthly payments and ballooning balances that make it harder for them to
build wealth.  Larger student debt burdens make it harder for people to
buy homes or put money away for retirement.  It also makes it harder for
borrowers to start small businesses because many entrepreneurs rely on
their personal wealth to get their businesses off the ground. 

And for the most vulnerable borrowers, the effect of debt are even more
crushing, with one in six borrowers in default and many unable to
complete their degree because the cost of attendance was too high.

The burden falls disproportionately on Black borrowers.  According to
one analysis, Black borrowers 20 years after taking on the debt still
owe 95 percent of their original student loan debt.

Today, President Biden is taking action to lift a large weight off of
tens of millions of Americans by relieving student loan debt and
reforming our student loan system as a whole. 

This announcement has three major parts, and it offers targeted debt
relief to lower- and middle-income families as part of a comprehensive
effort to address growing college costs.

I will describe the first two parts and then turn it over to my
colleague to describe the third.

First is debt cancellation.  The administration will provide $20,000 in
debt relief to borrowers who received Pell Grants while they were in
college.  To qualify, a borrower must make less than $125,000, or
$250,000 if they are part of a household.  Borrowers who are not Pell
Grant recipients but who meet those income thresholds will be eligible
to receive $10,000 in relief.

It is really hard to overstate how significant this is for America’s
middle class and for our economy.  This announcement will help people
who, by and large, came from working families and are working class now.

If all borrowers claim the relief that they’re entitled to, 43 million
federal student loan borrowers will benefit.  And of those, 20 million
will have their debt completely canceled.

This plan distributes relief highly progressively.  Among borrowers who
are no longer in school, nearly 90 percent of relief dollars will go to
those earning less than $75,000 a year, and no one in the top 5 percent
of incomes in America will get a single dollar of relief.

Also, by targeting relief to borrowers with the highest economic need,
this plan helps narrow the racial wealth gap.  That’s in part because
Black students are more likely to have to borrow for school, more likely
to take out larger loans, and more likely to have received Pell Grants.

Even before applying the additional $10,000 for Pell Grant recipients,
the typical Black borrower will see their balance cut nearly in half,
and more than one in four Black borrowers will see their balance
forgiven altogether.

And then, on top, adding relief for Pell Grant recipients will go a long
way to promoting equity because Black borrowers are twice as likely to
be Pell Grant recipients as their white peers.

Current students with loans are eligible for this debt relief. 
Dependent students will be eligible for relief based on their parental
income rather than their own income.

And to ensure a smooth transition to repayment and prevent unnecessary
defaults, the administration will be extending the pause on federal
student loan payments one final time through December 31, 2022.

By combining targeted relief with a restart in payments, the President
is taking one step that has a negative fiscal impulse — collecting more
payments from borrowers — and one step that has a positive fiscal
impulse — offering debt relief to borrowers most in need.

In terms of an impact on inflation relative to today, our view is that
those steps largely offset.  There are certain conditions and
assumptions under which they could well be neutral or deflationary.

With that, I’m going to turn it over to \[senior administration
official\] to talk about the other components of the plan.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thank so much.  As \[senior
administration official\] said, in addition to providing immediate
cancellation, the administration is making the student loan system more
manageable for current but also future borrowers.

Fist, the department will reform something called the income-driven
repayment system.  The Department of Education has authority to create
income-driven repayment plans, which cap what borrowers pay each month
based on a percentage of their discretionary or disposable income.  Most
of these plans cancel a borrower’s remaining debt once they make 20
years of monthly payments. 

But the existing versions of these plans are too complex and too
limited.  And as a result, millions of borrowers who might benefit from
them do not sign up, and the millions who do sign up are still often
left with unmanageable monthly payments.

So that’s why the President will announce proposed reforms to
income-driven repayment so that both current and future low- and
middle-income borrowers will have smaller monthly payments.

The proposed rule for undergraduate loans would cut in half the amount
that borrowers have to pay each month from 10 percent to 5 percent of
discretionary income.  They’ll also raise the amount of income that is
considered non-discretionary and therefore protected from repayment,
guaranteeing that no borrower earning under 225 percent of the federal
poverty level, which is about the annual equivalent of a $15 minimum
wage for a single borrower, will have to make a monthly payment.

Further, for borrowers with loan balances of $12,000 or less, the
proposed rule will forgive loan balances after 10 years of payments
instead of 20 years.

And unlike existing income-driven repayment plans, this plan would cover
the borrower’s unpaid monthly interest so that borrowers’ loan balance
won’t grow as long as they make their monthly payments.

These reforms will deliver significant savings to low- and middle-income
borrowers.  For example, a typical single construction worker making
$38,000 a year with a construction management credential would pay only
$31 a month compared to the $147 they pay now under the most recent
income-driven repayment plan.  That would give them an annual savings of
nearly $1,400.

And starting in the summer of 2023, borrowers will be able to allow the
Department of Education to automatically pull their income information
year after year, avoiding the hassle of needing to rectify their income
annually.  Once a borrower is enrolled, it will be much easier to stay
enrolled and receive credit that they’re due.

Second, the Department of Education is also making changes to the Public
Service Loan Forgiveness — or the “PSLF” — program that builds off of
shorter-term changes that make it easier for borrowers working in public
service to gain progress towards loan forgiveness. 

Borrowers working in public service are entitled to earn credit towards
loan forgiveness under PSLF, but because of complex eligibility
restrictions, historic implementation failures, and poor counseling
given to borrowers, many public service servants have not received the
credit they deserve for their public service. 

The Department of Education also proposed regulatory changes to ensure
more effective implementation of the PSLF program moving forward. 
Specifically, the Department of Education has proposed allowing more
payments to qualify for PSLF, including partial lump sum and late
payments. 

The proposed rule also allows certain kinds of deferments and
forbearances — such as those for Peace Corps and AmeriCorps service,
National Guard duty, and military service — to count towards PSLF.  And
it proposes to change the program so that it works better for nontenured
instructors whose colleges need to calculate their full-time
employment. 

In the short term, the Department of Education has announced
time-limited changes to PSLF that provide an easier path to
forgiveness.  Those who serve less than 10 years can now more easily get
credit for their service to date towards eventual forgiveness. 

These changes allow eligible borrowers to gain additional credit towards
forgiveness even if they’ve been previously denied. 

To ensure borrowers are aware of the temporary changes, the White House
has launched four PSLF days of action dedicated to borrowers in specific
sectors: government employees, educators, healthcare workers, first
responders, and nonprofit employees.  Today is the first day of action. 

Additionally, the Department of Education has already taken significant
steps to strengthen accountability so that students are not left with
mountains of debt with little payoff.  The agency has reestablished the
enforcement unit in the Office of Federal Student Aid, and it is holding
accreditors’ feet to the fire.  In fact, the department just withdrew
authorization for the accreditor that oversaw schools responsible for
some of the worst for-profit scandals. 

The agency will also propose a rule to hold career programs accountable
for leaving the graduates with mountains of debt that they cannot pay —
a rule the previous administration repealed. 

Building off of these efforts, the department is announcing new actions
to hold accountable colleges that have contributed to the student debt
crisis, including publishing an annual watch list of the programs with
the worst debt levels in the country, so that students registering for
programs in the next academic year can steer clear of programs with poor
outcomes.

It is also requesting institutional improvement plans from the worst
actors that outline how the colleges with the most concerning debt
outcomes intend to bring down debt levels. 

The President believes that when we strengthen the middle class of the
country, everyone benefits.  And that’s what these policies do.  It
provides a little bit more financial security for millions of lower- and
middle-income Americans. 

And with that, I’ll turn it back to Abdullah.  Thanks so much.

MR. HASAN:  Thank you.  We’ll go ahead to Chris Megerian for the first
question. 

Chris, you should be unmuted now.

Q    Okay, here I am.  So, a question about future college students. 
What impact will this have on students who are currently in high school
and are going to be starting — you know, taking out lots of debt to be
starting college soon?  And also, can you specify the impact on Parent
PLUS loans — basically, loans that parents are still paying off for
their college graduates?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  So, Parent PLUS loans held by the
Department of Education are included in the cancellation policy that
\[senior administration official\] described.

In terms of future students, two things.  As I laid out at the end
there, there’s policies that are designed to help reduce the cost of
college, including increasing Pell, and the President has proposed
moving forward to double the maximum Pell Grant. 

And the — all of — the proposal related to income-driven repayment would
apply to future loans.  So it will reduce the amount a borrower must pay
on undergraduate loans from 10 to 5 percent of their monthly income. 
And again, if they’re low income, it protects — under the definition of
discretionary income, it protects a higher level of income.  So some
borrowers could have a zero payment, depending on what their income is.

MR. HASAN:  Great.  Thank you.  For the next question, we’ll go to
Jeremy Diamond.

Q    Hey, thanks for doing this.  First of all, on the inflation
concerns, I know that you guys said that you believe that these steps
will largely offset each other, but do you just dismiss, out of hand,
concerns from several Democratic economists like Larry Summers and Jason
Furman?  And is there any circumstance under which you think that this
will increase inflation?

And then, secondly, just on the decision-making front, you know, this is
something that the President has been considering for a really long time
now, it seems.  And so I’m wondering, you know, why it took so long. 

And there also seems to have been a significant 11th-hour push to get
the President to go further, and I wonder if you guys could take us into
that process over the last week. 

Thanks.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Sure.  So, on the inflation question,
our view is that the combination — so if we — relative to where we sit
today, which is that federal student loans are paused and that — and 45
million borrowers are under no obligation to make any payments to the
government, the combination of restarting those loans — those loan
payments — and providing targeted debt relief per the President’s plan
at roughly the same time will largely offset each other.  That’s our
view. 

And also, frankly, with certain fairly reasonable assumptions — because
there’s a lot of assumptions that go into this kind of analysis — the
joint impact of those two actions could well be neutral or deflationary.

And I would just note that a number of independent experts have echoed
this point.  As you noted, there’s some people who take the opposite
view, but Moody’s, Roosevelt, EPI, Center for American Progress, others
who have discussed, you know, a plan with this sort of general outline —
a combination of restarting student loan payments and providing targeted
debt relief — have come to the same conclusion.

MR. HASAN:  Great.  And then, for the next question, we can go to
Cheyenne Haslett.

Q    Hi, thank you.  Can you clarify which tax year for income — whether
it’s 2021 or 2022?  And can you also clarify how exactly, going forward,
the monthly income payments will be — you know, whether that will be
taken on by taxpayers or how cutting down on that will affect the cost
of this plan?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  I can take the first.  And, \[senior
administration official\], maybe you can take the second?

For the purposes of the immediate debt relief, a borrower’s income in
either the 2020 or 2021 tax year is what’s relevant.  So, in other
words, if in either 2021 or 2020 their income was below the income caps
that have been described, they would be eligible for relief. 

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Sorry, I had a little — audio. 

So, on the IDR, the costs of that program are spread out over time.  It
depends on how much outstanding debt is forgiven at the end of the
repayment period, but borrowers will be making reduced payments on an
annual basis.  And in the — if they have outstanding loans at the end of
the 20-year period and 10-year period for under $12,000, that amount of
fund- — debt will be forgiven.  Some of those debts may not have been
recuperated because people have gone into default.  So it’s a fairly
complicated process for determining the cost implications.

MR. HASAN:  Thanks, \[senior administration official\].  And then for
the next question, let’s go to Asma.

Q    Hi, guys.  It’s Asma from NPR.  Thank you all so much.  I think
this was a question that actually Jeremy had asked earlier — I don’t
believe it was answered — which is that there were certainly — there was
certainly a desire from some Democrats to go larger.  And can you help
us understand the process of how the President settled on this 10k
threshold for most borrowers — 20k, obviously, for Pell Grant
recipients?  But how was this settled upon — given that I know there was
a desire, certainly even this week — to go larger than that?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  So I just want to clarify something,
Asma: that 60 percent of borrowers have Pell Grants.  So actually, the
majority of borrowers are eligible for 20k in relief, and the remainder
are eligible for the $10,000 in relief.  So I think that’s an — that’s
an important clarifying point. 

And it honestly reflects — if you look at who Pell Grant recipients are,
about half of them come from families that make under $30,000 a year and
roughly the other half of

them come from families that make between $30- and $60,000 a year.  And
collectively, those Pell Grant recipients make up about 60 percent of
student loan borrowers. 

So that just emphasizes, to me at least, how, you know, the vast
majority of borrowers — or a strong majority of borrowers are folks who
come from lower-income, middle-income families.

In terms of the process: Look, the President made a commitment during
the campaign.  He said, you know, he was going to provide $10,000 in
relief.  And over the past months, we’ve been going through the process
that the President asked us to go through — examining the legal
authority, looking at different permutations of this proposal — all with
the goal of figuring out how do we provide relief to the people who
really need it.  And that’s — this is a product of the plan that we
arrived at. 

We think it does a very good job of, number one, targeting relief to
lower-income, middle-income borrowers.  As I said, nearly 87 — nearly 90
percent of the relief dollars here go to people making under $75,000 a
year, while not a single dollar goes to anybody in the top 5 percent of
incomes.  And by targeting additional money to Pell Grant recipients, we
are recognizing that not just income, but wealth plays a really
important role in the capacity of borrowers to repay.  And because Pell
Grant recipients tend to come from lower-wealth families, providing them
with additional relief is a way of really targeting relief at those who
need it. 

So that’s the basic decision-making process.

MR. HASAN:  Thanks, \[senior administration official\].  For the last
question, let’s go to Andrew Restuccia.

Q    I’m sorry about that.  Can you just to get into the legal
justification for this cancellation a little bit more?  It sounds like
the administration released a memo laying it out, and it’s based on
pandemic authority.  Can you explain how — you know, why it’s based on
pandemic authority when, you know, the conditions in the economy and
other — and also health conditions of the country have been improving?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, look, my — I’m not a lawyer.  So
I’m — my instinct is to defer — for you guys to take a look at the
written document that goes through this and to follow up with either the
Education Department or DOJ if you have any questions on that.

MR. HASAN:  All right, we’ll take one final question.  And we’ll go to
Lauren Egan.

Q    Hi.  Could you clarify the income cap?  Do you qualify if you make
as much as $125,000 a year or do you have to be under that?  And then
can you speak a little bit to what borrowers have to do, if anything, to
get this cancellation and when people can start to see this reflected in
their balances?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Sure.  So, the income cap is under
$125,000. 

In terms of the process here, the Education Department is going to be
releasing additional details in the coming days and weeks.  Some
borrowers are going to have to submit essentially a simple application
that goes to their income and shows that they would meet the income caps
that have been set out in this plan. 

It’s also the case that a certain percentage of borrowers — I think
roughly 8 million borrowers — have already submitted relevant income
information on file to the Education Department through other means. 
And those folks may — who qualify under the income cap — may be able to
receive debt relief automatically. 

But I’d refer you to the Education Department for further implementation
details.

MR. HASAN:  All right.  Thank you everyone for joining today’s call. 

As a reminder, it is on background, attributable to “senior
administration officials.”  No embargo.

You should have, during the call, received a factsheet from the White
House as well, (inaudible) look at that.  And thanks again for joining.
 

END

  
  
