---
date: '2022-08-09'
modified_time: 2022-08-10 09:39:52-04:00
published_time: 2022-08-09 09:34:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2022/08/09/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-6/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine\_Jean-Pierre"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

  
3:05 P.M. EDT  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Good afternoon, everybody.  
  
Q    Hi, Karine.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Hi, Peter.  (Laughter.)  You’re like that kid in the
class.  
  
Q    What kid?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  You’re like —  
  
I’m expecting an apple — like a nice, shiny red apple.

  
Q    Next briefing.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  All right.

  
Okay.  So, moments ago, the President signed the Instruments of
Ratification for the Accession Protocols to NATO for Finland and Sweden.

Before the signing, the President spoke with Swedish Prime Minister
Andersson and Finnish President Niin- — Niinistö — Niinistö? — okay,
Niinistö — to emphasize the United States’ strong support for their
decisions to apply for NATO membership and reiterate that the United
States will continue to work with our NATO Allies to quickly bring
Sweden and Finland into the greatest defensive alliance in history.

Finland and Sweden will make NATO stronger and deepen the transatlantic
partnership at a time when Putin’s invasion of Ukraine has shattered
peace and security in Europe, and fundamentally disrupted the
rules-based international order.

As the President said, this is a watershed moment for our Alliance and
for the greater security and stability of the world.  
  
As you all saw this morning, today the President signed the CHIPS and
Science Act, which will supercharge our efforts to make semiconductors
here in America, which power everything from our smartphones, to
dishwashers, to automobiles.

You have heard us talk about the economic and national security benefits
of this bill for months now, but I wanted to lift up one new story that
we heard from the President directly today and from Joshua Aviv directly
today, the founder and CEO of SparkCharge.

We know this bill is going to help major companies, like Micron, Intel,
General Motors, Ford, and so many more.  But when Joshua introduced the
President today, we also heard how the CHIPS and Science Act will help
young, diverse, and self-starting entrepreneurs as well.

Joshua’s company, SparkCharge, is the first mobile, ultra-fast charger
for electric vehicles, and he also started “Currently,” which delivers a
charge directly to u- — to EV owners on the road.  He manufactures all
the products his company needs at their fa- — factory in Buffalo, New
York.  And the CHIPS and Science bill will help Joshua build and grow
his business.

As the President said today, this is a once-in-a-generation law that
invests in America itself, a law that the American people should be
proud of.  
  
Also, as you may have seen yesterday, the — Secretary Blinken was in
South Africa and he announced the new U.S. Strategy Toward Sub-Saharan
Africa.  
  
This strategy articulates our new vision for a 21st century U.S.-African
partnership.  It recognizes the tremendous, positive opportunity that
exist to advance shared interests along our African partners, and it
reframes and recognize Africa’s importance to U.S. national security
interests.

This strategy also parallels many of the themes we look forward to
addressing in December at the U.S.-Africa Leaders Summit here — right
here in Washington, D.C.

We encourage you to review the full strategy and factsheet posted on the
White House website.  
  

And lastly, the average national gas price — I know you guys love us
talking about gas prices going down — dropped below $4 per gallon
according to a leading market analyst.  That’s delivering over $100 a
month in vital relief to American families with two cars.  
  
This is the fastest decline in gas prices in over a decade — nearly a
dollar drop in just 56 days — with gas prices dropping every single day
this summer.  
  
The most common price at gas stations today is $3.79.  And drivers in
five states can now find gas below 2 dollars and 99 dol- — 99 cents per
gallon from at least one gas station.  
  
President Biden promised he would address Putin’s price hike at the ba-
— at the pump, and he has.  He is releasing 1 billion barrels of oil a
day from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve.  He is rallying — rallying
international partners to release an unprecedent amount of oil.  And
under President Biden’s leadership, U.S. oil production is up and on
track to reach a record high.  
  
More work remains, but prices are coming down, and the President will
continue to call on domestic and international oil producers to increase
output so that they can continue to come down.  
  
With that, Zeke, you want to take us away?

  
Q    All right.  Thanks, Karine.  Just briefly, at the earlier CHIPS
signing, the President had several — several coughing episodes.  Is it
possible to get an update from his physician about his — his status
after his recovery from COVID, please?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, as you know, we shared his — his negative test
today.  He’s — he has tested negative Saturday, Sunday, and Monday, and
now today.  
  
We have also said many times, I think, during the briefing when we were
talking about his COVID case, that he experiences coughs from time to
time, independent of him getting COVID.  And what he’s experiencing
right now is the lingering effects of COVID, which is something I’m sure
many of us who have had COVID have — have been — have endured or had to
deal with.  And so, that’s what you’re seeing at this time.  
  
Q    And so, no update from the physician —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, there’s no update needed.  We had actually said
that this was a possibility.  We had been clear about that.  We actually
shared that he has an inhaler that he uses from time to time because he
has — he has experienced coughs, as you’ve heard him from even before
COVID that he has dealt with. 

And — and basically what you’re seeing right now is lingering effects of
that.  And we have talked — we spoke to the doctor about this, and
that’s what he relayed to us specifically.  
  
Q    On a different topic, the FBI has served a search warrant on the
former President’s residence in Florida.  Was the President or anyone at
the White House aware of that search warrant?  Or had — has anyone at
the White House or the President been briefed in the aftermath of that
search warrant being executed?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No.  The President was not briefed, did not — was not
aware of it.  No.  No one at the White House was given a heads up.  No,
that did not happen.

  
Q    Is the White House at all concerned, given the domestic political
climate but also the signal that it sends to the rest of the world, that
the Department of Justice carried out this sort of operation on a former
President, that it could even be — create the appearance of a
politically motivated prosecutor?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, first off, and you’ve heard us say this many times
at this podium, you’ve heard the President say this: The Justice
Department conducts investigations independently, and we leave any law
enforcement matters to them.  It would not be appropriate for us to
comment on any ongoing investigations.  
  
I can say that President Biden has been unequivocal since the campaign:
He believes in the rule of law, in the independence of Justice Depar- —
of the Justice Department investigations, that those investigations
should be free from political influence.  And he has held that
commitment as President.  
  
I want to also remind you all of what he said on January 7th of 2021
when he then nominated Merrick Garland to be the Attorney General, and I
quote:

“We need to restore the honor, the integrity of the independence of the
Department of Justice in this nation that has been so badly damaged. 
And so many former leaders of that department, in both parties, have so
testified” and that — “and stated that.  I want to be clear to those who
lead this department who you will serve.  You won’t work for me.  You
are not the President or the Vice President’s lawyers.  Your loyalty is
not me.  It’s to the law, the Constitution, the people of this nation to
guarantee justice.” End quote.

So I would refer you to the Department of Justice. 

Q    And then, just lastly, does the White House or the President
believe it would be helpful, both domestically and the signal that sends
abroad, for the Department of Justice to be more open about the reasons
for that search warrant — the underlying evidence there?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Again, this is not something I’m going to comment on
today or from here at all.  This goes to the Department of Justice, and
that’s where I refer you to.

Q    Karine?  Thank you.  The President this morning stressed that the
CHIPS Act will create jobs, will grow the economy.  But when will
Americans feel the impact of this legislation?  When will this law
impact supply chains?  When might prices go down because of this?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So Secre- — Secretary Raimondo actually spoke to this
a little bit, and the department is already taking steps to set up the
office that will implement the bill.  And so we’ll — we’ll have more
details on that — on that soon. 

But we are working hand-in-hand with private companies who are already
announcing new investments here at home because we passed this bill.  We
had said for many months that we needed to send that signal for
companies who were making decisions by the end of the summer.

So, by passing this and now the President signing this, we have sent
that signal.  So, there, you see companies working on that — private
companies.

So, Intel is going to break ground on next-gen semiconductor factories
in central Ohio in early fall.  So that is certainly a step forward.

Micron is announcing a $40 billion investment in memory chip
manufacturing, which will create up to 40,000 new jobs. 

And Qualcomm and GlobalFoundries are announcing a new partnership,
including $4.2 billion in chips manufacturing.  Qualcomm will increase
U.S. chip manufacturing by up to 50 percent.

Just giving you a little bit of already what’s happening.  And we’ll
have more specifics on when we’ll see a direct effect.

Q    And on this raid, I understand you’re underscoring the independence
of the Justice Department, but just politically and in terms of the
optics of this, are you concerned at all about how it looks for the
Justice Department to be investigating and raiding the home of the
former President, who may very well be the current President’s rival in
2024?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Again, we’re just not going to comment on any ongoing
investigations from here.

Q    And to Republicans who say it reeks of politics?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, I’ll say this: You know, the President and the
White House learned about this FBI search from public reports.  We
learned, just like the American public did yesterday, and we did not
have advance notice of this activity.

President Biden has been very clear from before he was elected President
and throughout his time in office that the Justice Department conducts
its investigations independently.  He believes in the rule of law and
what — we are nations of law — are a nation of law. 

And he — again, we defer any incoming on this particular incident
yesterday to the Department of Justice.

Q    To follow up on that, Karine, Republicans have said that they will
probe this raid if they take over the House or the Senate after the
November elections.  What’s the White House’s reaction to that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Again, I’m just not going to comment on any reaction
to what happened yesterday.  We are going to refer any incoming to the
Department of Justice.

Q    Okay.  But that’s not really about DOJ.  It’s more about what might
be coming your way if the election does not go your way in November.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  That’s a hypothetical, and I’m just not going to
entertain it at this time.

Q    And another topic.  The House is meeting on Friday to vote about
the Inflation Reduction Act.  Assuming that they go ahead and pass the
bill, what are the President’s plans for signing that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, no plans at this moment to share with all of
you.  As you know, there’s some — there’s an enrollment process; it
takes some time before the bill can get signed.  I have nothing to share
at this time on what that looks like. 

So we just are looking forward.  We are grateful for what the Senate was
able to do just a couple of days ago.  And we are looking forward to the
House passing it so that we can deliver for the American people.

Go ahead, and then I’ll come back to you.

Q    Just to follow up on the Republican criticism of this search
warrant that was executed on Mar-a-Lago, does the President believe that
the Justice Department acted accordingly here?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  That is not — I’ll say — I’ll say this again: That’s
up for the Department of Justice to decide.  It is — when it comes to
the criminal investigation, it is independent.  And they make that
decision.

Q    And has the White House been told whether or not Attorney General
Garland signed off on the search warrant himself?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We learned about this, the President learned about
this just like you all did, through the public reports.  And we learned
about this just like the American people did. 

Q    So you don’t know whether or not Garland signed off on it?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have anything more to share.

So we — like I said, we didn’t lear- — we did not know about this, and
we have not been briefed on this.  We learned about this just like the
public — just as you all were reporting it, through the public reports.

Q    And on the President’s agenda, how does he plan to use the string
of wins that he’s had lately and that Democrats have had lately to turn
it into a sense of momentum — not just for his own low approval ratings,
but also to help Democrats in the midterm elections?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, you know, what we have seen this past week
and, I would argue, the past 18 months has been a president who has a
legislative success — more legislative success than any modern
President.

If you think about the American Rescue Plan, if you think about the
Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, if you think about what’s going on with
CHIPS, what’s happening with the Inflation Reduction Act that’s — we are
grateful for, and it looks like it’s going to be passing out of the
House in a couple of days, and so much more — burn pits — all of these
successes certainly is something that the President has talked about for
many years.

If you look specifically at the Inflation Reduction Act and those
components that are incredibly popular, when you think about how the
American people feel about these — about lowering costs — energy costs;
lowering premiums — healthcare premiums — these are things — and
especially the Medicare to be able to negotiate — these are things that
Democrats have been fighting for for 34 years.  And — and special
interest groups have said no and have not allowed — you know, have
\[not\] allowed congressional members to work really hard and pass bills
to lower those costs for American people. 

And finally, what we have seen this week is a win — is a win for the
American public.  And so, the President, the Vice President, Cabinet
Secretaries, congressional members are certainly going to be out there
talking to the American people, talking about — about these wins for
them that we — that we were able to work together on.

And so, that’s what you’re going to see in the upcoming weeks.  And you
have congressional Democrats right now in their districts talking about
this particular bill and others — CHIPS as well — in their district and
talking about how they were able to deliver.

Q    And does the President think he’ll get a boost from this?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, look, I think our focus is always on
delivering for the American people.  This is a President who has been in
office for some time.  A lot of the components that we have seen
delivered are things that he has fought for since he was a senator.  And
when you think about lowering prescription drugs, that’s something
that’s incredibly personal to him, and that’s what matters.  What
matters right now is the work that we’re doing, which are very popular —
the components, the legislation are very popular with the American
public.  And that’s going to be our focus.

Q    The Archivist said in a letter to the Justice Department in
February that classified material apparently was taken from this
building down to Mar-a-Lago in Florida.  What’s the President’s reaction
to that general notion?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m — I’m not going to comment further from here from
what I said.  This is a — this is a criminal investigation that the
Department of Justice is running, and I leave it to them to speak to
it. 

Q    The President is the original classification authority; all of it
stems from him personally.  He has no specific reaction to the way that
classified material was apparently handled in this case?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Again, this is a criminal investigation that the
Department of Justice is independently running.  We will leave it to
them to speak to this.

Q    Once more on this question of the general reaction to what has
happened since yesterday.  Does the President feel that the FBI’s
legitimacy and its decision-making, the way that it handled this, is on
the line now?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  The President has been very clear.  I read his quote
from when he — on January 7th in 2021, when he nominated Merrick
Garland, and how he felt the importance of not politicizing the
Department of Justice, the importance of having that independence.  And
so I leave the — I leave the quote that I read to — to all of you just
moments ago to you.

Q    Separately, the President visited — well, we know that the Speaker
of the House was here visiting with the President today.  Did they
discuss the Speaker’s visit to Taiwan?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I have not seen the President since the event, so I
can’t speak to that at this time.

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  Do you consider Donald Trump to be a political
rival of President Biden? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m not going to speak to that from here.

Q    But you talk about Trump all the time.  So do you consider him to
be —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Mm, I don’t talk about Trump all the time.

Q    “Ultra MAGA.”  You guys were criticizing his handling of COVID last
week.  You’ve mentioned his January 6th response a couple days ago. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No —

Q    So can you say, based on all that — I didn’t say anything about
Mar-a-Lago.  I’m just asking you if you consider the President to be —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m — I’m saying, from here, I’m not going to comment
on it. 

Q    Does the President still want to — think that he would be very
fortunate to run against Trump in 2024, like he has said before? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Again, I’m not going to comment on —

Q    It’s just — it’s just a —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — I’m not —

Q    — a quote from the President: In “the next election, I’d be very
fortunate if I had that same man running against me.”  Does he still
think that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All I can tell you, Peter, is that the President
intends to run in 2024. 

Q    Is there a concern here that if you guys don’t say more than these
Republicans — who are accusing this White House of weaponizing the
Justice Department, weaponizing the FBI — are, that that’s going to
become the public sentiment, if you guys don’t say once and for all, “We
are not doing that”?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  First — first of all, we’re just not going to comment
on the Department of Justice investigation.  We’re just —

Q    Okay, but I’ll make it easier.  Are —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We’re just not going to comment on that.

Q    Is this White House weaponizing the Justice Department and the FBI
against a political — against political opponents?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  The President has been very clear from before he was
elected, very clear on this.  Hold on. 

Q    It’s just —  

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Throughout his time in office —

Q    He is President now.  I heard the quote.  We will be playing the
quote tonight at 6 o’clock.  Is this administration weaponizing the
Justice Department and the FBI against political opponents?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Peter, the President believes in the rule of law.  The
President believes in the independence of the Department of Justice.

Q    That’s — that’s a yes or no. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, that is —

Q    Just, is the White House —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, it’s a yes-no for you.  I’m answering the
question.  You may not like it, but I’m answering the question.

Q    I’m just —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  And I’m s- — no.  No.  I’m answering the question, and
—

Q    I’m just trying to figure out what’s happening —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — I’m telling you that we are not going to comment on
a criminal investigation.  The President has been very clear.  I laid
out what his thoughts were back on January 7th in 20- — in 2021, about
how he saw the Department of Justice.  And I’m just going to leave it
there. 

We’re not going to comment from here, from this White House, on a
criminal investigation that is currently happening. 

Q    And just one more about the Inflation Reduction Act.  Who around
here decided that Americans were crying out for more interaction with
the IRS? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — I don’t understand your question.  You have to say
more. 

Q    Do you think it’s going to be popular when the 87,000 new employees
hired by the IRS go around and start auditing people to pay for the
Inflation Reduction Act?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So it’s very clear.  The IRS Commissioner was very
clear on this.  He said that — on the record, that this only will — it
will only apply to those earning over $400,000.  The Commissioner said,
and I quote, “These resources are absolutely not about increasing audit
scrutiny on small businesses or middle-income Americans.  As we have
been planning, our investment of these enforcement resources is designed
around… Treasury\[’s\] directive that audit rates will not rise relative
to recent years for households making under $400,000.”  So this is —

Q    So no audits?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  This is focused on those who are, you know, corporate,
wealthy tax cheats that Republicans — congressional Republicans wanted
to defend.  That’s who they wanted to defend.  They wanted to defend
those corporate tax cheats.  This is not about — this is not about
that.  This is not about folks who make less than $400,000.

Q    So new audits on anybody making under $400,000 a year?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No.  Very clear, no.

Hey, Monica.  Welcome to the briefing room.

Q    Hi.  Thank you very much.  Former Vice President Pence called on
the Attorney General to provide a full accounting of the FBI search at
Mar-a-Lago.  Is that something the White House would support?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m not going to comment on the depart- — I’m not
going to comment on this.  It’s going to — I’d refer you to the
Department of Justice.

Q    And has the President spoken with the Attorney General today?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m — I’m just not going to speak further on any — any
conversations.  There’s no calls for me to preview. 

Again, I’m just not going to comment on any ongoing criminal
investigations.

Q    When it comes to student loans and the current pause on the
payments — they’re set to expire at the end of the month — a lot of
borrowers told us that they feel they’ve been left in limbo, making it
difficult to plan financially.  Is there any update on that expected? 
When can they expect that?  And would it possibly just be another
extension, or what else is on the table for that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So the President spoke to this when he was asked, I
think about two weeks ago, about the student loan and his decision.  He
said by “the end of August.”  So we’re still kind of at the beginning,
getting into the middle of August.  So when he’s ready to make that
decision, we will let you know.

Q    And what would you say to the borrowers that these —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So —

Q    — three-month extensions are making it —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — I’ll — I’ll say — I’ll say this —

Q    — very complicated —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — and we have been very clear on this: Like, the
President understands how student loans could affect a family and — and
how the pressure of that can really be a lot and put a lot of weight on
a family’s purse or economic situation.  So, we understand that.  He is
making — he is going to make his decision on this, and when he has
something to say, we will share that.

Q    And just finally on Ukraine: What is the White House understanding
of the situation at the Zaporizhzhia Nuclear Power Plant?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  The — which — which power plant?

Q    Zaporizhzhia.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, I spoke to this yesterday during — during the
gaggle.  Basically, what we said then is that — what I said yesterday is
that we continue to closely monitor the situation at the ZNPP.  The
Department of Energy and the National Nuclear Security Administration
report that radiation sensors are continuing to provide data.  And — and
thankfully, we have seen no indications of increased or abnormal
radiation levels.

We also are aware of reports of mistreatment of N- — ZNPP staff and
applaud the Ukrainian authorities and oper- — operators for their
commitment to nuclear safety and security under trying circumstances.

Fighting near a nuclear plant is dangerous, and we continue to call on
Russia to cease all military operations at or near Ukrainian nuclear
facilities and return full control to Ukraine.

For our part, we will continue to support the efforts of the
International Atomic Energy Agency to fulfill its techn- –its technical
safeguards mandate to assist Ukraine with nuclear safety and security
measures across its nuclear facilities.

  
Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  President Biden is scheduled to leave town for
South Carolina tomorrow.  Can we get any details on how long he’ll be
away on vacation, what he’ll be doing?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — I don’t have more to share on that.  I’m sure as —
as the days go by, we’ll share more about what — what the timing will
be.  I just don’t have any anything for you to share at this time on his
schedule.

Q    And would he — I know you spoke to this before, but would he come
back from that to sign the reconciliation bill?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, you know, first, we — we got to — we’re going to
work closely with the House to get that passed in the next couple of
days.  And once we have more to share, we will share your — his
schedule, if that changes.

Q    Can you talk a little about the CPI data tomorrow — what your
expectations are, what you guys are looking at?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yep.  So, as you know, the President has — his — the
President’s number one priority is to making sure that America- — that
we lower costs for American families.  That’s what we have been saying
the past couple of months, especially as it relates to inflation.  We
laid out our — our plan on what that would look like.

So, we haven’t seen the data yet for tomorrow.  We know that gas prices
have fallen –I just listed that — for 56 days straight to below $4.00
nationwide.  And we hope those gas price declines will factor in into
the CPI inflation data.  And because of that, because of the work that
the President has done these past several months, as I just mentioned
earlier, we have seen a decline — a steep decline, a decline that we
haven’t seen in more than a decade, saving families about — families
about 100 bucks a month.

But again, we haven’t — not seen those numbers yet.  And — and so we’ll
see tomorrow what that holds.

Go ahead.

Q    Hey, thanks, Karine.  A question about the Affordable Care Act. 
Does the White House plan to respond in any way to the Kelley v. Becerra
lawsuit in Texas, which threatens provisions around preventive care?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m not going to respond to any lawsuits from here.

Okay.  Anything else?  
  
All right.  Go ahead.  
  
Q    To the back?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’ll come to the back.

Q    I know that you’ve spoken about conversations — or not commented on
any conversations today with the Department of Justice, but would the
White House now rule out any briefings moving forward as this
investigation continues, given the accusations around any sort of
partisanship impacting the investigation?  I guess, the question —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Can you say more?

Q    Sure.  The question being: Is it — is the — moving forward, will
the President or anybody from the White House be engaged in any
briefings with the Department of Justice over this search or the
investigation?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We are — when it comes to a criminal investigation,
that is the Department of Justice to — to investigate and deal with.  We
give them their independence on that.

Q    But not — but not clarifying whether or not there would be any sort
of briefings — whether any briefings would be made between the Justice
Department and the White House, and whether they will be made public if
those briefings happen?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No.  I mean, this is not something — again, they’re
independent.  We are not — we’re not involved in their criminal
investigation.  That is not something that we do here.

We give them their independence when it comes to that.  And so we leave
it — we leave it to the Department of Justice.

So, any particulars, any specifics on what they’re going to do next or —
or anything to that fashion, I would refer you to the Department of
Justice.

Q    I want to ask student loans just one more time.  The way this was
described previously in reporting and just in conversations about it,
even in this room, is around cancellation and a possible extension when
it comes to a decision being made before August.  And the President has
said that, that a decision would be made before August.  
  
Is it possible that that decision is just limited to whether or not
there is an extension or not, and cancellation or any sort of relief is
left for another time?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So when it comes to the — to the pause — I know
there’s the pause and the cancellation — we haven’t made a decision yet,
so I’m just going to go to — go to the pause first.

The Department of Education will communicate directly with borrowers
about the end of the payment pause when a decision is made.  So, again,
no decisions have been made.

When it comes to the cancellation — look, I just said the President
understands firsthand the burden — the burden that student loan has on
families, it puts on families.  And we’re just going to continue to
assess our options for cancellations.  So, no decisions have been made
on that <s>yesterday</s> \[yet\].  And the President has made clear it
will — he’ll have something before August 31st.

Q    And would any decision impact public and private — students of both
public and private?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m just not going to get into specifics.  Once we
have more, we’ll share that with all of you.

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  Homeland Security announced yesterday that it is
ending the Remain in Mexico policy, so I just wanted to see if the White
House has any reaction to that. 

Also, I’m wondering, too, if you can talk a little bit about the timing
of this decision.  The Supreme Court ruled in June — late June — that
the administration had the authority to eliminate the program.  So I’m
just wondering: What took so long?  Did the President want it to be done
earlier?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, as we have said before, the Migrant Protection
Protocol — MPP policy — under the prior administration was flawed, it
was inhumane, and it was ineffective.

Now that the lower court’s order requiring us to continue the policy has
been lifted — that happened just yesterday — the Department of Homeland
Secur- — Security has restarted efforts to terminate it.  
  
So, it was — we were waiting for the lower court, and it made that
decision yesterday.

So, any further detail, I would just refer you to them — to the
Department of Homeland Security.

Okay.  Go ahead, in the back.

Q    On — so CPI inflation is coming out tomorrow, and I had a question
on that.  So, you’ve pointed out the gas prices are now falling.  You
said the government spending won’t really affect inflation going
forward.  So, then, has the American people seen inflation peak?  And is
it now coming back down?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, what I can tell you is — I explained CPI.  We
don’t — we haven’t seen the number yet.  We’ve seen the gas prices come
down in the past 56 days, which is because of the work that this
President has done.  We hope to see that is reflected in CPI, so we will
see what that looks like tomorrow. 

As — as it relates to inflation as a whole, what I can speak to is the
work that we have been doing and what we have — you know, what we — the
plan that we have put forth, including making sure the Federal Reserve
has their — has their independence to make sure that they can do the
work that they’re doing and have — they have the strongest monetary
policy to work on those things.

And, you know, it matters that the Inflation Reduction Act is going to —
is — looks like it’s going to pass.  It matters because we have 126
economists, both on the right and both on — on — on the “D” side —
Republican and Democrats, who have said it is going to help fight
inflation.  That is important, including five Secretary — Treasury
Secretaries, also Democrats and Rep- — under Democrats and Republican
administration.

So that’s going to be incredibly important.  And we’re just going to
continue to doing the work. 

Yes, gas prices came down by a dollar per — per gallon, but we
understand that there’s more work to do, and we’re going to continue to
do that.  
  
We leave — any data, I’ll leave that — we’ll see how — what the data
looks like.  
  
Q    On the CHIPS Act, the Intel CFO says that they don’t expect to see
the money until the end of 2023.  You know, so then, the jobs the
President is promising from this act, will they then have to wait until
2024 as the money cycles through?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, I mean, I was kind of clear on this, and we have
been for the past several months, and I said this moments ago: One of
the things about passing the CHIPS Act and now signing into law, as you
saw the President do today, was sending that signal to private companies
that we were — we were going to — we were going to take action to make
sure that investments were happening here — right? — to make sure that
manufacturers were staying in America and that we were being — we were
able to make sure that we were doing the work that our country needed to
do to make sure that we’re leading — leading across the globe.  
  
And so that sent a signal to private companies.  And that’s why I was
able to lay out what Intel is going to do, what Micron is going to do,
and Qualcomm and GlobalFoundries —  
  
Q    But when — for those jobs?  When will we see those jobs?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, I think we’ll have more to share.  This is the
question that I’ve kind of gotten, like, “When are — when are the
American people going to feel the impact — impact?”  We’ll have details
on that very soon.   
  
In the meantime, we’re taking steps to set up the office to get this
done as quickly as possible.  But I think what’s important here is that
this commitment that we have made — again, CHIPS — bipartisan, very
important; both Republicans and Democrats came together to get this done
— shows a very loud message to private companies that we want to make
sure that we’re investing in America and also can compete across —
across the globe.

  
Go ahead, Sebastian.  
  
Q    Thank you, Karine.  So I’m not asking you to comment on the Justice
Department side of this, obviously, because I know you can’t.  But,
politically, is the President, who is the country’s leader — is he
confident that he has a plan to address the way that a lot of Americans,
maybe even a very large number of Americans, are being told and may now
believe that Donald Trump is being persecuted and the deep state is
coming after you, that the IRS and the FBI are corrupt?  All this kind
of stuff — this is really believed, apparently, by, really, a lot of
people.  
  
He’s the leader of the whole country, as he often says.  Does he have a
handle on this?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Your question is still asking me to comment on what’s
happening, right?  By me answering, it is still asking me a question to
comment on it.  
  
Q    Not really.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, absolutely.  So I’m going to stick to what I’ve
been saying, is that this is a criminal investigation that’s independent
of — to the DOJ, and we leave any inquiry, any questions about what is
happening to the Department of Justice.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you, Karine.  One on NATO, one on Ukraine.  The President
urged the remaining seven NATO members to complete ratification process
for Finland and Sweden, as he said, “as quickly as possible.”  What is
desired timeframe when he wants other leaders to complete the process? 
By the winter?  By the end of the year?  
  
And what’s his message to those leaders — leaders of those seven
countries, including Turkey?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So we don’t have a timeline to share.  I think what
you were hearing from the President is his strong support, clearly, from
— not just from him, but from — from Congress, from Americans about how
we support the — this expansion, this ratification that we saw today
with Sweden and Finland.  
  
As I just laid out, he spoke to both of them.  We, hopefully, have put
out a readout by now, so you’ll hear directly from us on how those
conversations came — have went.   
  
And so, you know, we’re going to continue to work with our Allies and
partners to strengthen defense and deterrence and to avoid — to
strengthen — to strengthen that defense alliance.   
  
It’s one of the strongest that we have seen in modern times, and that’s
— a lot of that is because of this President’s leadership.  And so we’re
going to just continue to make sure that — that we make our voice
clear.  
  
But I don’t have a timeline to share.  You know, the President speaks to
his — to the NATO members very regularly, as we read out to all of you. 
But this is an important day.  We think this is a very important day for
NATO as we continue.   
  
Q    On Ukraine, there has been a series of explosions at the Russian
air force base in Crimea.  It’s not clear yet what happened.  But I’m
wondering if you consider Crimea a legitimate target for Ukraine when
they use U.S.-provided weapons.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So we are supportive of Ukraine’s efforts, as you
know, to defend its sovereignty and territory int- — territory
integrity, as we have said many times from here.  
  
The fight has been in the east and the southwest of the country, and
it’s far from over.  We have warned this could be a long and protracted
war.  
  
We will continue to ensure that Ukraine can push back against Russia’s
unprovoked aggression, and that’s going to be our focus.  
  
Q    So is a legitimate target or not?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Say that one more time?  
  
Q    So is the Crimea a legitimate target for Ukraine when they use
U.S.-provided weapons?  Because in the past, Pentagon seems to — seem to
try to convince Ukraine not to use U.S.-provided weapon to attack
Russia, Russian territory.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So I don’t have anything else for you on this.  I’m
saying to you that we are going to continue to support Ukraine as
they’re fighting for their freedom, as they’re fighting for their
sovereignty, you know, against a brutal — a brutal attack from Russia.

  
Go ahead, Jenny.  
  
Q    Thank you.  
  
Q    Karine — thanks, Karine.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’ll come to you.  Go ahead, Jenny.  
  
Q    I know you said that you haven’t seen the President since the bill
signing and his opportunities to speak with Speaker Pelosi about his —
her Taiwan trip.  Presumably, tomorrow they have another chance at the
PACT Act signing.  But since you have talked with him about the trip
since it happened, does he want to have a conversation with Speaker
Pelosi about it to hear what she’s heard on the ground, what the
Taiwanese government would want to see from the U.S. government?  Does —
is he seeking at all a conversation like that?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, one thing I will — I mean, they talk pretty
regularly, right?  This is the Speaker of the House and the President. 
They have a friendship; they have a relationship.  I don’t have anything
specific to read out about any recent conversation on her trip.  
  
What I can say is — reiterate a little bit of what the President said
yesterday when he was asked about the Speaker going, and he said, you
know, it was — it was her right to go.   
  
Again, we’re going to reiterate this: It was her right to go.  There was
precedence for this.  As we know, Newt Gingrich, when he was Speaker,
went a generation ago.  And — and, again, it does not change our policy,
our One China policy.  It does not change any — any of that.  
  
And — and so I will leave it to the Speaker.  She spoke to this earlier
today.  She was on some — one of your colleagues’ networks, talking
about her trip, so I’ll let her speak to it directly.

  
Q    Does the President agree, since you just mentioned her appearances
this morning, that President Xi Jinping is a “scared bully” and “in a
fragile place”?

  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I actually did not watch the interview.  (Laughs.)  
  
Q    (Inaudible.)  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I know — I know she was on — I know she was on. 

Look, she’s going to speak for herself.  She is the Speaker.  It is up
to her to make decisions on where she will travel.  It is up to members
of Congress to make that decision on where they will travel.

What we provide — we provide a briefing on what the geopolitics looks
like in the region, in that country, the national security components of
their particular specific trip.  But we are not — it’s — and you’ve
heard us say this this: It is a — you know, it is a co-equal branch of
government but also separation of powers.  And she has her right to make
that trip.  I will let her speak to — speak to it and how she feels
about it.  I cannot speak from — on — for her from here.

Q    One more on Russia.  My colleagues reported today that a merchant
ship carrying military equipment passed Turkey’s Bosphorus Strait on the
way from Syria to Russia.  And I’m wondering if you can give us an
update on, you know, how concerned the U.S. is about this, but also, was
there any outreach to Turkish officials since it was a Turkish strait.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We don’t — I — we don’t have anything to share on that
from here at this time.

Okay, I’m going to try and go to the back.  Go ahead.

Q    Karine, thank you. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, (inaudible) — I’m going to go to Phil? 

Q    Yeah.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay, I’m sorry.

Q    The President campaigned on binding up the wounds of the country
and restoring norms.  And I’m wondering, two years in, if the President
believes that he has made progress in restoring the American public’s
faith in federal institutions.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, one of the things that we understand and the
President understands — and I’ve been asked this question in different
variations, and it’s pretty much the same.  He — you know, when he —
when he ran, he understood that we were in a politic- — politically
polarized environment.  He understand that it was going to be a lot of
work to bring people together.  And I think the work continues, even in
his first 18 months.  There’s still a lot of work to be done.

And, you know — but he has been able to do some things that people said
he couldn’t be — he couldn’t do.  Right?  The bipartisanship on the
Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, it brought the Right and the — you know,
the “R’s” and the “D’s” — Republicans and Democrats together.  That was
because of this President’s leadership that he was able to do that to
deliver an infrastructure investment that was historical. 

He was able to — we were able to do that with the CHIPS –CHIPS and
Science Act — bring the two sides together to get something done, to
make sure that we’re leaders across the world when it comes to
manufacturing.

And so there are things that this President has done because of his
leadership — somebody was asking me about NATO — that is also important
as well.  NATO is the strongest that it’s been in modern times because
of his leadership abroad. 

So I think there’s still more work to be done.  It’s not like turning
the light switch on.  And so we’re going to continue to do the work.

So there’s no — there’s no “yes” or “no” answer.  There is: We’re going
to continue to work towards that.

Q    Gotcha.  And then, you’ve said repeatedly that the President
learned of the news of the FBI visit to Mar-a-Lago the other day through
news reports.  Can you tell us anything more?  Was he watching the
news?  Was he scrolling Twitter?  Did someone in his staff flag it for
him?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I can tell you this: He was not aware of — of — of the
— was it the Mar-a-Lago raid?  I don’t know what you guys are calling it
— before it happened. 

So, I can tell you that he did not know.

Q    But, so did someone flag it for him?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  He learned about it, really, like all of us did.  I’m
sure maybe someone on his team flagged it for him, but he was not aware.

What I can tell you definitively and for sure: He was not aware of
this.  He was — we were — nobody in the White House was.  We were not
given a heads up, and we did not know about — about what happened
yesterday.

Q    Karine, can you speak to the West Wing communication afterwards
between the Justice Department and President Biden?

Q    One question for Africa, Karine?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m going to come back, guys.

Q    Thank you.  Why do we always have to beg for questions?  Africans
deserve questions as well, Karine.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.

Q    Come on.

Q    What is the latest on communications with Beijing?  And are there
still efforts to find a meeting for a face-to-face with President Xi?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No — no update on his schedule, on any meeting at this
time.  Look, we have said — we have said this many times that we’re
keeping the line of communications open with Beijing.  The President
spoke with President Xi not too long ago.  We read that out.  It was
more than a two-hour and 20-minute conversation.

He — that was his fifth conversation with the President.  And on staff
levels, there’s an open — open dialogue that we’re going to keep.

Q    Karine?

Q    Karine, we’re getting — we can tell that your staff is trying to
give you the hook.  I don’t know if you (inaudible) —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay, I’ll take — I’ll take a couple more questions. 
Okay, I’m going to take — I’m going to take —

Q    One for Africa.  One question for Africa.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m going to take — I’m going to —

(Cross-talk by reporters.)

Guys — go ahead.  Okay. 

Q    (Inaudible) question on the back.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Give me — give me a second.

Q    We have been asking for a question, Karine, every time.  And even
when you give questions to Simon, it’s because he forced.  We don’t need
to force for question.  We also deserve to have a question.  Why —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I will get — I will get —

Q    Do you have something against African reporters?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.  Go ahead.

Q    On Afghanistan, Jake Sullivan —

Q    We deserve questions too, Karine.

Q    — said last year that there was going to be —

Q    You have to be fair.

Q    — an extensive top-to-bottom review of the withdrawal and how that
went.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Can you start again? 

Q    Sure.  Yeah.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Because someone was — was yelling over you.

Q    On Afghanistan, Jake Sullivan said last year that there was going
to be a top-to-bottom extensive review on how that withdrawal went.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  The “hotwash.”

Q    There was some reporting today that that is not going to be ready
for the one-year mark.  I guess the question is: Why is that process
taking so long?  What’s been the holdup there?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I know you’re talking about the — the “hotwashing”
specifica- —

Q    The hotwash, yeah.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — specifically.

So, the update that I can give you from here is that departments and
agencies have begun their independent after-action reviews of the
operations at the end of the U.S. military mission in Afghanistan.

And again, once those internal reviews are done, we will have an
opportunity to look at the full picture.  Once they’re done, we will
give you the full — have the full picture in a way that will help inform
future operations.  Department and agencies will share lessons learned
consistent with operational and classification security.  It’s just
still underway.  Once we have that, we will — we will share our lessons.

Q    So that’s the wait on, like, agency level and department level. 
You haven’t — the White House hasn’t received anything —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  From what I understand, this is department and agency
levels. 

Q    And there’s no set timeline for when that’s (inaudible)?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have a timeline for you on this.

Q    Can I get one question please?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.  Go ahead, Andrew.

Q    Can I have a question, Karine?

Q    Thank you.  Adjacent to the news of the day from yesterday, since
the news of the search of former President Trump’s home in public,
there’s been a lot of reporting on chatter among extremists online about
the possibility of violence, people talking about Civil War Two, et
cetera, et cetera.

The President put out a domestic violent extremism strategy last year. 
Is the White House in contact with the Justice Department, DHS, or other
departments about preparing for possible violence as a result of this?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, we’ve been very clear, and so our message is this:
that the President and this White House — there is no place for
political violence in this country.  People have the right to raise
their voices peacefully.  But we would strongly condemn — as we have
many times from here — the President has condemned any efforts to plan
violent behavior of any kind.  And so we would — we would ask Americans
to remain peaceful in this time.

Again, this is something that we condemn.  I don’t have any — anything
more to share about the particular policy that you’re asking me about.

Q    May I have a question?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead — right behind.

Q    Thank you, Karine.  Can you speak to the importance of the
Inflation Reduction Act reaching Black and brown communities, which we
know are — they make up — make up a disproportionate share of poverty
rates and pay more in energy costs?  And to what extent will the
administration ensure that it’s implemented equitably?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, clearly, we have to get this passed.  We’re going
to work very closely, as we have been, with — with Congress to get this
done because this is incredibly important, and we want to make sure we
deliver — we deliver this for the American people.

I think if you look at how prescription drugs are going to go down,
because Medicare will be able to negotiate with — with companies, that
is — with pharmaceutical — that is going to be incredibly important —
right? — when you think about brown and Black communities are spending. 

And not just them, but you think about Americans across the board that
are spending so much money — seniors — our seniors — just to get that
vital — vital drug that they need just to — just to live their everyday
lives.  That’s going to have an impact on brown and Black communities, I
beli- — we believe.

And when you think about utility bills coming down because of this
investment that it’s going to make in — in really — in lowering energy
costs.  And so those things are going to make a difference. 

We think about the ACA premiums — that’s going to — that’s going to keep
our lower costs on healthcare.  That’s going to make a difference in
communities as well.

And so, when — and when you think about the President’s economic plan
more broadly, it’s always been about making sure that it is — it is
economically fair, that we don’t leave anybody behind.  It — we talk
about building it from the bottom up and the middle out.  We don’t want
— we want to make sure that no communities feel like they’re left —
being left behind. 

And so that is always been part of the President’s agenda, and you see
that here with the Inflation Reduction Act as well.

Go ahead, Simon. 

Q    Okay, thank you, Karine.  I know you said that you don’t really
want to comment on an ongoing investigation.  But what time did the
President learn about the raid on — the raid yesterday?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have anything to — more to share, Simon.  I’ve
shar- — I’ve said all that I can about — about the — the topic.

Q    Yeah, and then also you said that the President believes in the
rule of law.  Does he believe in the rule of law when it comes to the
former President or even his son?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m not going to — I’m not going to comment any more
on —

Q    And — and —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — on both of those topics that you just mentioned. 

Q    (Inaudible.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  The Department of Justice is independent with their
criminal investigation.  The President has been very clear on that.  And
we — I would refer you to Department of Justice on those — those two
topics that you just brought up.

Q    Yes.  So, one final question from me.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Sure.

Q    The Secretary is in Africa.  Yesterday, he unveiled the U.S. — the
new U.S. strategy for Sub-Saharan Africa.  But that strategy doesn’t
really — doesn’t have any step to show how the U.S. will counter China
or Russia in Africa.  And why is that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I could say — say this: We want to make sure that
— one of the things that we made sure about this, our strategy, it had a
different approach on — on what we — a unique approach on — about how we
are doing it.  So we seek to engage not only government leaders, but a
wide range of African and U.S. stakeholders, such as youth, business,
civil — civil society, and the diaspora. 

As you know, there’s going to be a summit here in December — December
13th to the 15th.  And so that’s something that I want to make sure that
is said as we’re going to — as we’re headed to — as we’re headed to the
summit in just a couple of — a couple of months. 

And our relationship, as it relates to Africa, we believe is incredibly
important.  I just laid out what the President — what the Secretary
talked about.  So we want to make sure we’re reinvigorating and
modernizing U.S. partnerships across the continent; building
substantive, reciprocal partnerships with African governments,
institution, and public, based on the principles of mutual respect,
equality, and other shared values, and strengthened by our long-lasting
historical and cultural connections. 

So we want to make sure that our commitment is there.  There is going to
be many issues to talk about for the summit.  And as we lay out our
African strat- — Africa — our strategy for Africa, it’s going to be
about — national security, we’ll talk about.  We’ll talk about COVID. 
We’ll talk about food security.  And we’ll talk about other items as
well, that’s going to be important to both global challenges, that’s
going to be important to African — African nations and also the U.S.

Q    And if I can ask you this last question —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, I — we got to move on.  We got to move on. 

Q    No, one last —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, no, no, no, we got to move on.

Way in the back, go ahead.

Q    Thank you.  On the CHIPS Act signing today.  With semiconductors
primarily being manufactured right now overseas in East Asia, what
message does this send — does the President want this to send to China,
specifically, at a time when tensions are high?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, the President talked about this in his speech as
well.  He mentioned the importance of being competitive, and that
competition — this is why this CHIPS and Science Act is so important —
so we show that we are committed in investing in us — in “Made in
America” — and committed and making sure that we have manufacturing
that’s happening here. 

As you mentioned, chips and semiconductors — as you mentioned — even our
national security — strengthening our national security is going to be
important in chips.  Strengthening our supply chain is going to be also
important as a — as we look at chips. 

So, look, it doesn’t stop us.  Even the escalation that we’re seeing and
that we are being very clear about with our — how we’re communicating on
that piece as well.  But we also have to continue to do the work of the
American people.  We have to make sure that we are delivering for the
American people.  And that’s what this shows. 

It’s going to create jobs.  And it’s going to create those important
chips. 

When you think about the automobiles, when you think about the
smartphones — all of these things — it’s going to be important in
lowering costs for the American people. 

And so that’s our — our message to the American people is that we’re
going to make sure that we deliver for them and lower costs and create
jobs at the same time.

Q    Thanks, Karine. 

Q    And one more on inflation with numbers coming out.  Wanting to get
more details about what the White House is prepared to do to help
families on a fixed income who are still struggling.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, that’s top of mind for this President.  We’ve —
we talk about that, you know, pretty regularly — how lowering costs for
Americans is so important, how lowering costs for Americans is
critical. 

We understand what is happening.  The President personally understands
what’s happening around the kitchen table and the conversations that
people are having — about how are they going to put food on their table,
how are they going to put gas — you know, gas in their car.

That’s why one of the things that we have been talking about and working
on with the gas prices coming down — the last 56 days matters.  It gives
Americans a little bit more of breathing room. 

So the President laid down what his inflation plan is — is.  He knows
there’s still more work to do.  But again, the ifla- — the Inflation
Reduction Act, once that gets passed, that is going to make a difference
in people’s lives.  Prescription drugs, utility bills — that — and we
think about ACA bringing down the premiums for folks.  That’s going to
make a difference in people’s lives. 

The CHIPS Act I just laid out — that’s going to make a difference in
people’s lives.  And so that’s the work that we’re going to continue to
focus on.  And we’re going to make sure that we deliver for the American
people. 

All right, thanks, everybody.

4:01 P.M. EDT
