---
date: '2022-08-04'
modified_time: 2022-08-04 19:01:56-04:00
published_time: 2022-08-04 19:01:55-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2022/08/04/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-and-nsc-coordinator-for-strategic-communications-john-kirby-5/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre and NSC Coordinator for\
  \ Strategic Communications John\_Kirby"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

3:20 P.M. EDT  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Good afternoon.

Q    Good afternoon.

Q    Good afternoon.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, it’s so good.  Love it.

I just want to say a few words about the verdict — the Brittney Griner
verdict.

So, today’s sentencing is a reminder of what the world already knew:
Russia is wrongfully detaining Brittney.  She never should have had to
endure a trial in the first place.

We have repeatedly called for Russia to release her immediately so she
can be with her wife, loved ones, friends, and teammates.

Under President Biden’s direction, the U.S. government continues to work
aggressively, pursuing every avenue to bring home Brittney, Paul Whelan,
and every American held hostage and wrongfully detained around the
world.

As you all know, we have made a substantial offer to bring her and Paul
Whelan home.  We urge Russia to accept that proposal.

I’m not able to share more publicly at this time, but we are willing to
take every step necessary to bring home our people, as we demonstrated
with Trevor Reed.  And that’s what we’re going to do here.

I can assure you this is something the President and our national
security team are focused on every single day.

The President receives regular updates about the status of our
negotiations to secure Brittney’s release, as well as the release of
Paul Whelan and other U.S. nationals who are wrongfully detained or held
hostage in Russia and around the world.

So we will continue our — we will continue to focus on getting our U.S.
nationals home.

So, additionally, as you have — you might seen — you have might seen,
the People’s Republic of China launched 11 ballistic missiles towards
Taiwan.

To speak on this and other foreign policy news of the day, National
Security Coordinator for Strategic Communications John Kirby is here to
join with — join me today.  And he’ll take over and take your questions.

Go ahead.

MR. KIRBY.  Thank you, Karine.  Good afternoon.  
  
As Karine alluded and I’m sure all of you have covered, overnight, the
People’s Republic of China launched an estimated 11 ballistic missiles
towards Taiwan, which impacted to the northeast, the east, and southeast
of the island.

We condemn these actions, which are irresponsible and at odds with our
longstanding goal of maintaining peace and stability across the Taiwan
Strait and in the region.  
  
China has chosen to overreact and use the Speaker’s visit as a pretext
to increase provocative military activity in and around the Taiwan
Strait.

We anticipated that China might take steps like this.  In fact, I
described them for you in quite some detail just the other day —
Monday.  We also expect that these actions will continue and that the
Chinese will continue to react in coming days.

The United States is prepared for what Beijing chooses to do.  We will
not seek, nor do we want, a crisis.  At the same time, we will not be
deterred from operating in the seas and the skies of the Western
Pacific, consistent with international law, as we have for decades,
supporting Taiwan and defending a free and open Indo-Pacific.

To that end, Secretary Austin today has directed that the aircraft
carrier USS Ronald Reagan and the ships in her strike group will remain
on station in the general area to monitor the situation.  
  
We will conduct standard air and maritime transits through the Taiwan
Strait in the next few weeks, consistent, again, with our longstanding
approach to defending freedom of the seas and international law.  
  
And we will take further steps to demonstrate our commitment to the
security of our allies in the region, and that includes Japan.

Beijing’s actions are of concern to Taiwan, to us, to partners around
the world.  You probably saw the G7, yesterday, rejected Beijing’s
attempt to coerce and intimidate Taiwan, which is a leading democracy.

The nations of ASEAN also released a statement overnight about the
importance of de-escalating tensions in the Taiwan Strait.  And today,
the Japanese government reported that five PRC missiles landed in their
Exclusive Economic Zone, noting their grave concern — another example of
how China’s actions are undermining peace and security in the region.

Now, we’re going to continue to communicla- — communicate closely with
our partners around the world, which we have demonstrated over and over
again is a strength of this administration.

Beijing’s provocative actions are a significant escalation in its
longstanding attempt to change the status quo.  As just one example,
over the past two years the PRC has more than doubled the number of
aircraft that they have flown over the center line that separates China
and Taiwan as compared to the fir- — to the time period between
2016-2020.  And Beijing has pursued economic coercion, political
interference, and cyberattacks against Taiwan, all of which erode the
cross-Strait status quo.

The United States will be resolute but also steady and responsible.  We
do not believe it is in our interest, Taiwan’s interest, the region’s
interest to allow tensions to escalate further, which is why a
long-planned Minuteman III ICBM test scheduled for this week has been
rescheduled for the near future.

As China engages in destabilizing military exercises around Taiwan, the
United States is demonstrating instead the behavior of a responsible
nuclear power by reducing the risks of miscalculation and misperception.

We will continue to demonstrate transparency in our U.S. ballistic
missile tests through timely notifications.  That’s a practice that
China has often rejected.  Rescheduling this test will not in any way —
not in any way — impact the modernization, the readiness, or the
reliability of America’s safe, secure, and effective nuclear deterrent. 
And the test will happen.  It will be rescheduled for the near future.

I want to reiterate, as I’ve been saying all week: Nothing — nothing —
has changed about our One China policy, which is guided by the Taiwan
Relations Act, the Three Joint U.S.-PRC Communiqués, and the Six
Assurances.  And we say it that way every time because it’s exactly
consistent.

Now, we said that we oppose any unilateral changes to the status quo
from either side.  We’ve also said we do not support Taiwan independence
and that we expect cross-Strait differences to be resolved by peaceful
means.  We’re also maintaining communication with Beijing.

As President Biden told President Xi, the Speaker’s visit was consistent
with our One China policy, that she had a right to visit, and that a
previous Speaker of the House has also visited Taiwan before without
incident.

This is how we’re going to defend America’s national security interests
and our values.  And that is how President Biden directed us to operate
in the days ahead — with consistency and clarity and transparency.

And we’ll keep doing that — what we are doing — and we’re going to keep
supporting cross-Strait peace and stability, because it matters — not
just in the Strait, not just to Taiwan, but to the entire region.

With that, I’ll take some questions.

Q    Thanks, John.  A couple questions about Brittney Griner’s
sentence.  First off, why do you believe the Russian judge chose a
nine-year sentence for what appears to be a very minor infraction?

MR. KIRBY:  I certainly can’t get inside the head of a Russian judge. 
What we — we have seen similar maximal — maximum sentences for drug
charges of foreigners in Russia. 

They typically — it’s just, historically speaking, foreigners that are
arrested on drug charges and then convicted under their system tend to
get much higher sentences than would be Russian citizens.

But I honestly can’t speak to it.  I will tell you that, as Karine
rightly said, she shouldn’t even been on trial.  She’s wrongfully
detained.  Absent that, we find the sentence reprehensible in its — in
its scope.

Q    You know, you’ve — some details of the U.S. prisoner swap offer
have obviously been public.  Do you think the Russians would ever accept
a prisoner swap that wasn’t one-for-one or two-for-two — two of our
prisoners for two of theirs?

MR. KIRBY:  That’s a better question for the Russians.  What I can tell
you is that we put forth a serious proposal.  And I know everybody is
making some assumptions here about what that proposal is; I won’t go
into detail about it.  But it’s a serious proposal.  We urge them to
accept it.  They should have accepted it weeks ago when we first made
it.  
  
Q    Why did you make the details of that offer — or the fact that you
made an offer —  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — public?  Doesn’t that encourage Russia or, really —  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — any bad actor to take more Americans prisoner, thinking the
Americans are going to be willing to deal?   
  
MR. KIRBY:  Yeah, Tyler asked me that same question, I guess, a week or
so ago.  We didn’t make it public — we didn’t make the decision to make
it public lightly.  I mean, it’s not the kind of thing that you
typically do.   
  
But what was happening in her case a week ago, what wasn’t happening in
our negotiations a week ago, and in the context of her having to testify
in her own defense at a sham trial — all of that played into our
decision to at least make public the fact that there was a proposal.  
  
It was an — it was an earnest attempt to see if we could get to some
outcomes here.  And we’re still going to — we’re still going to keep
making those attempts.  
  
Q    Thank you so much.  You had called a counteroffer by Russia
“unserious,” which involved their offer that the U.S. release a
convicted Russian national, who’s being held —  
  
MR. KIRBY:  That’s right.  
  
Q    — in Germany, convicted of murder.  Is it still an unserious
offer?  Are you giving it another look in light of the sentence?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Nothing’s changed about our position on that — on that
topic.  I mean, I — I don’t think we’d go so far as to even call it a
counteroffer.  
  
Q    Okay.  President Biden said today in response, “My administration
will continue to work tirelessly and pursue every possible avenue to
bring Brittney and Paul Whelan home safely as soon as possible.” Does —
is that a suggestion that he’s willing to go even further?  Is there
more that the U.S. can do to pressure Russia to accept this offer?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I think Karine covered it really well in her opening
statement.  I mean, the President is laser-focused on this and he — he
and the whole team are working this literally every day.  And just like
I won’t get into the details of the proposal that we’ve put forward, I
don’t think it would be helpful to Brittney or to Paul for us to talk
more publicly about — about where we are in the talks and what the
President might or might not be willing to do.   
  
I just want to, again, reiterate what Karine said: He wants to see
Brittney and Paul home, and he’s personally involved in seeing — to
making sure that that outcome happens.  
  
Q    And very quickly, has the President spoken to Brittney Griner’s
family?  And does he plan to do so?   
  
MR. KIRBY:  I don’t have any recent in — like in terms of like the last
couple of days, I don’t have any conver- —  
  
Q    Not in the wake of the sentencing, or —  
  
MR. KIRBY:   Not in the wake of the sentencing.  
  
Q    Okay.  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Not — no.  
  
Q    And just very quickly on China.  Given what — China’s actions that
you talked about at the top, does the administration believe it was a
mistake for House Speaker Nancy Pelosi to visit Taiwan?  
  
MR. KIRBY:   We have said — we have said consistently that the Speaker
had a right to go.  
  
Q    But now there’s been action from China.  
  
MR. KIRBY:  As Speaker of the House and a member of Congress, she — she
had a right to go.  And I know we’re all focused on the stop in Taiwan
and I — and, certainly, given the events of the last 12, 18 hours,
understandably so — but she’s not just going to Taiwan.  
  
I mean, she’s — she’s moved on now to visits in Japan and South Korea —
two treaty allies.  Japan, in particular, deeply concerned about what’s
going on.  We’ll let the Speaker talk about her travels and what she’s
learned, what she’s heard, what her takeaways are.  I won’t — I won’t
talk for her.   
  
Members of Congress have every right to travel overseas, and that
includes Taiwan.  And they have bo- — both — from both parties have just
this year. And she’s — yes, she’s the Speaker of the House, but she’s
also a member of Congress.  She has the right to go.  And our job was to
make sure that she had a safe and secure visit; we did that.  We’re
still in touch with her staff.  We’re still responsible for making sure
the rest of her trip is safe and secure.  We’ll let her talk about it
when she gets back.  
  
Q    Thank you.  
  
Q    Thanks, John.  On Griner, I know you said you can’t get into too
many details here, but can you say if there are non-prisoner concessions
on the table at all that you would be willing to consider?   
  
MR. KIRBY:  I’m not going to get into any more detail.   
  
Q    Okay.  And then on China, is the President considering another call
with President Xi at all, given these escalating tensions?   
  
MR. KIRBY:  I don’t have any call on the schedule to talk to or to
announce.  
  
Q    Is that being considered at all?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I’m not going to get ahead of the President’s schedule.  As
I said in my opening statement, the lines of communication with China
are still open at different levels, of course, but I won’t get ahead of
the President’s schedule.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Just going to jump around.  Go ahead, Patsy.  
  
Q    Thank you so much, John.  So you’ve explained what the U.S. is
trying to do in terms of sending out military — the USS Reagan to the
region to ensure, I assume —  
  
MR. KIRBY:  She was already in the region.  Yeah.  But —  
  
Q    Understood.  Okay.  So that — I assume that’s also part of keeping
shipping routes and — open and safe.  I understand that the Taiwanese
president is also saying that she’s in contact with U.S. allies to
ensure that airports and seaports remain open.  Is that also part of the
— what the administration is trying to do here?   
  
And the other thing is, just to touch on the kinds of communications
that you’re having with the Chinese government: Do you believe that, at
this point, there is a diplomatic off- ramp for this crisis?   
  
MR. KIRBY:  Well, we certainly would like to see the tensions
deescalate.  And if that’s best done through diplomacy, the United
States would fully support that.  We want to see the tensions come
down.   
  
I would submit to you that they can come down very easily by just having
the Chinese stop these — these very aggressive military drills and
flying missiles in and around the Taiwan Strait.  You don’t need
diplomacy to just simply stop doing something that’s — that’s escalating
the tensions and putting peace and security in the region at risk.   
  
Look, the Ronald Reagan and her escort ships are a very capable strike
group.  They’re there to monitor the situation.  They’ll — they’ll be
there for a little bit longer than they were originally planned to be —
to be there.   
  
Again, I won’t get ahead of the ship’s schedule, but the President
believed that — that it was the prudent thing to do: to leave her and
her escort ships there just a little bit longer.   
  
Q    Can we just — just to follow up, is there any kind of support that
the U.S. is providing to Taiwan in terms of protecting it in the context
of cybersecurity attacks?  I think that’s also something that the
Taiwanese are concerned about.  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Yeah, look, I — I — for lots of good reasons, we don’t talk
about steps we take either unilaterally or bilaterally in cyberspace.   
  
We are committed, as we have been now for decades, to Taiwan’s
self-defense.  I’ll leave it at that.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Can you give us a sense of what Griner’s sentencing may mean for
negotiations?  Her Russian lawyer had said that a deal wouldn’t be
possible until after she was convicted and sentenced.  So now that
that’s happened, is it more likely, you think, that we may see them
willing to negotiate?  Essentially, does a conviction open new doors for
negotiation?   
  
MR. KIRBY:  That’s really up to the Russian side.  We’re still — we’re
still open to having our proposal seriously and positively considered. 
And if on the Russian side that means that they feel like they’re more
empowered to do that, then so be it.   
  
We want them to take the offer that’s on the table because it’s a good
one, it’s a fair one, and it’ll help bring Paul and Brittney home.  And
if — if this is what’s going to — it’s going to take to get them to — to
“yes,” then, okay, let’s get to “yes”; let’s get them home.  
  
Q    And it has been now almost a week since Secretary Blinken and
Lavrov spoke over the phone.  Have you gotten any serious signs from
Russia that they’re willing to negotiate?  Is there any glimmer of
progress since then, in the last week?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I’m not going to negotiate in public.  Conversations are
ongoing at various levels, and I’ll just leave it at that.  
  
Q    And just to follow up on Nancy’s question, what message do you
think the Russians are trying to send to the U.S. by giving Brittney
Griner so severe a sentence?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Again, I can’t speak for the Russian judge.  And — and your
question presupposes that it’s a message-sending exercise.  Maybe it is;
maybe it’s not.  As I said the —  
  
Q    You think it’s possible it’s not?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Historically — historically, what we’ve seen is foreign-born
citizens that are arrested and convicted of drug charges tend to get —
just historically, anecdotally speaking — tend to get higher sentences,
almost to the max, which in many cases is 10 years, in Russia, as
opposed to Russian-born citizens of the country convicted of the same
offense.  It’s just — it tends to be the case there.   
  
So I — honestly, I just — I wish I could get inside the judge’s head; I
can’t do it.  So I can’t define why he chose nine years.  As I said to
Nancy, it’s a reprehensible sentence.  She shouldn’t have been on the —
on trial to begin with.  But that — and that, again, that’s why we — I
think that’s why you saw the President come out so strongly against this
— this sham trial to begin with.  
  
Q    But to be clear: You — do you think she’s being used as a political
pawn here?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  We think that Brittney and Paul Whelan are being wrongfully
detained.  They’re being wrongfully detained.  They need to — to be let
go.  They need to come home.  We’re going to keep working on that.  
  
I — I cannot ascribe Russian motives or intent here.  I just — I just —
it wouldn’t be appropriate for me to try to speculate what’s in their
heads.   
  
All I can do is tell you where President Biden is and the national
security team: wrongfully detained, need to come home.  There’s a deal
on the table.  Let’s make the deal.  Let’s get them home.  
  
Q    In the way back?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right, Pete.  I’ll come back (inaudible), then
Peter, and then — and then I’ll come back.   
  
Q    Thank you.  Thanks, John.  Why is it that, over the last couple of
months, President Biden has been so much tougher on Russia than he is on
China?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I wouldn’t agree with the premise of the question, Peter.   
  
Q    Well, I think just — when Russia was getting aggressive around
Ukraine, the President was out every couple of days telling Putin,
“Don’t do it.”  And now China is getting aggressive around Taiwan, and
we’re not hearing anything like that from the President.   
  
MR. KIRBY:  Oh, beg to differ.  We’ve been standing up here for almost a
week, Peter, talking about our concerns about what China was preparing
to do.  We put out declassified information that we saw what the Chinese
playbook was going to be.   
  
Look, I stood at another podium not long ago, and much of the same way
we reacted then we’re reacting now, in terms of being honest and
transparent about what’s going on and calling it out for what it is.   
  
And then, today, we’re talking about exactly what we’re going to do to
make sure we can help preserve a free and open Indo-Pacific.   
  
So I’m — I’m afraid I just challenge the premise of your question.   
  
Q    I know you said that there is not a call scheduled with Xi.  Is
there a reason why?  Because President Biden has known him for
decades.   
  
MR. KIRBY:  Yeah.  
  
Q    He’s got a lot of free time up there in the Residence this week.  
  
MR. KIRBY:  He doesn’t have free time.  He — he’s —  
  
Q    Is there a reason he can’t just pick up the phone and call?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  He’s been working all the way through his illness, quite
frankly, Peter.  So that’s a little bit insulting.   
  
And as for a call —  
  
Q    It’s not insulting to —  
  
MR. KIRBY:  It is.  It is.  
  
Q    — say that the — that someone who is isolating by themselves —  
  
MR. KIRBY:  You suggested he has a lot of free time, as if he’s not
doing anything.  And you know that’s not the case, Mr.  Doocy.  
  
Now, look, as for a call with President Xi, I don’t have anything on the
President’s schedule to speak to.   
  
If ever the President felt like a call with President Xi was the
appropriate way to respond or that it would — that it would have an
effect and an outcome that he wants to achieve, he certainly would be
willing to do that.  He’s talked to Xi now five times; it’s not like
he’s afraid to pick up the phone and call President Xi.  And if there’s
a — if a call is the right answer, I’m sure that President Biden will do
that.  But I’m not going to get ahead of the President on this.   
  
I do want to stress — I said it before, but I do think that your
question begs me to say it again: The lines of communication are still
open with Beijing, and we’re using those lines of communication.  And I
think you’ll see that in days to come as well.  That’s really
important.   
  
And that’s one of the reasons why President Biden made that call a week
or so ago, was to make sure — and you saw it in Karine’s readout — to
make sure that those lines of communication stay open, and they are.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Jeremy.  And then I’ll come to the back.   
  
Q    Thanks.  John, you said a few moments ago that the President has
been personally involved in Brittney Griner’s case.  Can you talk about
what that has involved beyond getting daily updates on her situation,
and whether or not the President would be willing to speak directly with
President Putin to negotiate her release and the release of Paul
Whelan?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  When I say “personally involved,” I mean he’s — he’s in
constant touch with all the members of his team that are working on
Brittney’s case.  And it’s not just Secretary of State Blinken, but Jake
Sullivan; the Special Presidential Envoy for Hostage Affairs; the Deputy
Homeland Security Advisor, Josh Geltzer.   
  
I mean, there’s a lot of people involved in here, and he’s driving a
process of continual updates that he can get from his team.  He’s
offering guidance to them as needed.  You’ve seen that he has talked to
Mrs. Griner herself.   
  
And certainly would expect that he’s going to continue to have those
kinds of conversations going forward.  He’s staying focused on this.   
  
Q    And as for speaking with President Putin directly on this?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Oh, I’m sorry.  I — again, I don’t have — similar to
President Xi, I don’t have any calls to announce or speak to with
President Putin.  
  
The President is comfortable that the proposal that we put forward is a
serious one.  And he urges the Russians to accept that proposal so we
can get Brittney and Paul home.  
  
Q    And then, you talked about the decision to make public that you had
made an offer to the Russians.  And you suggested that part of that was
perhaps to put some pressure on the Russians because they hadn’t been
really all that responsive.  Do you feel like making that offer public
has changed anything, has changed the status quo?  Have you achieved
desired outcome of that — of that decision?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Well, she’s — she’s not home, neither is Paul.  So, can we
say that making it public had a direct line to bringing them home?  Not
yet, but we hope it will.  We hope it will.   
  
Q    It’s going to move the ball.  
  
MR. KIRBY:  We felt — we felt it was important to make sure the American
people knew, but as well as people around the world, how seriously we’re
taking these two cases, and that — so seriously, in fact, that we had
made a proposal that we believe the Russians ought to accept.   
  
And you’ll notice that the day after we did that, the Russians started
talking — even publicly.  So I’ll leave it at that.   
  
Q    And then on a separate issue: CNN reported today that the
Department of Homeland Security is going to stop wiping mobile devices
of high-level officials and political appointees without backing them up
first, and is launching a 30-day review of policies.  Is the White House
directing any other agencies to take similar steps, including the
Department of Defense, for example?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I’m not aware of any other instructions to other
agencies.   
  
Q    And then just lastly on Russia, more broadly: Can you speak at all
to this newly declassified intelligence that Russia is preparing to
plant fabricated evidence as it relates to this attack on the —  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Yeah, I can actually.   
  
Q    — on the prison?  Yeah.  
  
MR. KIRBY:  So I can share, based on downgraded intelligence, that we
expect that Russian officials are planning to falsify evidence in order
to attribute the attack on the Olenvika \[sic\] prison — Olenivka —
sorry — prison on the 29th of July.  They’re going to try to attribute
that attack to the Ukrainian Armed Forces.   
  
We anticipate that Russian officials will try to frame the Ukrainian
Armed Forces in anticipation of journalists and potential investigators
visiting the site of the attack.  In fact, we’ve already seen some
spurious press reports to this effect, where they have planted
evidence.   
  
And we have reason to believe that the — that Russia would go so far as
to make it appear that Ukrainian HIMARS — the High Mobility
<s>Advanced</s> \[Artillery\] Rocket Systems — that have been in so much
in the news lately — were to blame.  And to do that before journalists
arrived on site.  
  
And again, we’re beginning to even start to see some press reporting to
that effect.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay, way in the back, in the blue.  Way in the
back.   
  
Q    It’s me?   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  You.  
  
Q    Yes, thanks.   
  
MR. KIRBY:  (Inaudible) in the blue jeans.  
  
Q    John — yes — when you say that the U.S. is prepared — when you say
that the U.S. is prepared to what — for what China will do, do you mean
that you are prepared to engage militarily?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I’m saying we are prepared for what China may do.  And I
think it probably wouldn’t be a good idea to go into a great level of
detail on that.  
  
Let me say that when I say we’re prepared for what China may do, it’s
across all the tools of government power.  It’s not just about the
military.   
  
We have a robust military capability in the region.  We have strong
alliances and partnerships in the region.  We also have economic
throw-weight, right?  And we have diplomatic throw-weight.  There’s a
lot of things that the United States can — can bring to bear if we feel
like we need to.   
  
But here’s the thing: We shouldn’t need to do it.  And it shouldn’t come
to blows.  There’s no reason for this manufactured crisis to exist. 
They’re — the Chinese have used Speaker Pelosi’s trip as a pretext. 
Yes, they’re claiming it’s a protest.  I got it.  But it’s also a
pretext to try to up the ante in tensions and to actually try to set a
new status quo to get to a new normal where they think they can keep
things at.   
  
And my point in coming out here today was to make it clear that we’re
not going to accept a new status quo and that it’s not just the United
States, but the world will reject it as well.  
  
Q    After that last call between President Biden and Xi, there were
indications that a meeting between — between the two presidents may take
place.  There’s — there was any room for that.  Given the current
situation, do you think there’s a room for a meeting between the two
presidents?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Nobody is ruling out the possibility for a meeting between
the two presidents.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Phil, then Ed.  
  
Q    There’s reporting that the Biden administration is lobbying against
legislation that would designate Taiwan as a Major Non-NATO Ally.  Can
you tell us if that’s accurate?   
  
And as we move towards what President Biden has often described as an
era of autocracy versus democracy, should we be strengthening ties with
Taiwan by entering into such a designation?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I think we’re — with respect to this proposed legislation, I
think we’re going to avoid too much comment right now.   
  
We certainly appreciate and respect the role of Congress and, frankly,
the support across the aisle this year and so many years in the past for
support to Taiwan.  But I don’t think it behooves us to try to get ahead
of some proposed legislation before it moves — it moves further on down
the — down the ways.  
  
I will only add that the Taiwan Relations Act, which is the law of the
land, does provide the administration a lot of vehicles and venues.   
  
And we get fixated on the — on the Taiwan Relations Act in terms of a
security perspective and arms sales.  And those have continued under
this administration, and they will continue under this
administration.   
  
But if you read the act, there’s an awful lot more to it than just —
than just arm sales.  And we fully respect that law of the land — we’ll
follow that law of the land.  It does provide, on its own, an awful lot
of flexibility and authority for the administration to continue to
support Taiwan, particularly in their self-defense, and — and we’re
going to keep adhering to it.  
  
Q    And then more — just a quick follow-up.  You mentioned this briefly
about the canceled ICBM test.  Can you speak more generally to the
decision not to move in that direction, to cancel that?  Was that the
President’s decision?  And, I guess, can you put a little bit more meat
on the bones in terms of lessening tensions right now?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Yeah, yeah.  First of all, it’s not canceled.  It’s only
been postponed.  And it’s been postponed for a short period of time. 
I’m not going to tell you what the date certain here is on the calendar,
but there is a date certain.  And it’s — it’s just been postponed for —
for a short period of time.  So, it’s still going to happen.  
  
And because it’s not being postponed for an exorbitant amount of time,
it’s not going to have, as I said, any effect on our nuclear readiness. 
The — the decision came in light and in context of the tensions that
we’re seeing right now, and they’re pretty escalated.  I mean, it’s —
the temperature is pretty high.   
  
And the President believed and the national security team believed that
a strong, confident, capable nuclear power can afford to wait a couple
of weeks for a test to make it clear — not just in word, but in deed —
how serious we are when we say we have no interest in escalating the
tensions.  We don’t think there should be a pretext for crisis or
conflict.  
  
And we’re not, as I said in my opening statement, we’re not seeking
one.  And this decision to postpone for a short while is meant to prove
indeed what we’re — what we’re saying in words about how serious we
are.  It’s the responsible thing to do.  It’s the strong, confident
thing to do.  And the President stands behind that.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  And just a couple of more.  
  
Ed and Sebastian.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  Thanks, John.  So given the aggression that we’re
seeing from China around Taiwan and the FBI Director today saying that
China is the biggest threat to the U.S. — or the number one threat to
the U.S. in the next 10 years, would the President then caution
companies from expanding business or doing business in China?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  We have been nothing but transparent with — with businesses
about — and private corporations about our concerns regarding operations
in or with China.  But they’re private companies and they make their own
decisions, and we have to respect that.  
  
Q    What about supply chains with the — with the activity going on
around Taiwan?  How is that affecting our supply chains and will we have
problems?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I don’t think we’ve seen any effects yet.  I mean, we’re
only a few days into this.  So, it’s something we’re watching and
certainly concerned about.   
  
But we’ve also, I would add — thanks to COVID, we’ve done a lot of work,
particularly in the last 18 months, to make more resilient our supply
chains across a range of sectors.  Doesn’t mean everything’s fixed. 
Doesn’t mean it’s perfect.  But we’ve done a lot of work in that
regard.  So, we’ll just watch and see how this goes.  But there is a lot
more resiliency in our supply chain capability now than there was, you
know, a couple years ago.  
  
(Cross-talk by reporters.)  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Sebastian.  
  
Q    Thank you, Admiral.  Over here.  Sebastian.  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I see you.  I’m looking right at you.  
  
Q    Okay, okay.  Because there’s a lot of people in blue jackets here. 
(Laughter.)  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I noticed.  
  
Q    So, back to Ukraine and the deaths of those Ukrainian POWs.  So,
the U.S. is coming under — you’re saying like a whole fabricated, you
know, propaganda narrative is being spun.  Is there anything that — that
the administration will be able to point to and have people look when
they look at what, you know, the pictures (inaudible) that will tell you
that — that would not be a HIMAR?  Is there any evidence that you’re
going to be able to bring?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Well, let’s see what they plant, right?  I mean, let’s see
what they — let’s see how they play this.  And if they — we have
evidence, information that suggests they’re going to plant evidence to
include maybe pieces of HIMARS.  And we’ll see — we’ll see what they do
with it.  
  
I mean, I think, yes — I mean, analysts would probably —  depending on
how big the piece is and, you know, whether you’d be able to look at it
and know whether it was, in fact, coming from the munitions that HIMARS
fire.  Is that what you —  
  
Q    Yeah, I kind of meant starting from now, not when whatever is going
to be shown to journalists shown.  I mean: Now, so far, is there
anything that people could look at and say, “That doesn’t look like a
HIMAR impact or — “  
  
Is there anything the U.S. is going to be able bring forth itself?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I’m not aware of any imagery now that we have that will
allow us to do that.  But, look, this is all fresh information.  We’ll
see what they do with it.  And, you know, it’s a — it’s another common
play out of the Russian playbook here to accuse others of what you did
yourself.  
  
And I’m not a criminologist, but I reckon you don’t plant evidence
unless you’re trying to put the blame on somebody else.  
  
Q    Just quickly on Iran, if I might — the nuclear talks that have
restarted.  Would it be fair to describe this as a “last ditch
effort”?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I’m sorry —  
  
Q    The Iran nuclear talks that have restarted.  
  
MR. KIRBY:  A “last ditch effort”?  
  
Q    Yeah.  Is it — is it fair?  Because, I mean, the Europeans are
calling, like, a little bit of a “last chance saloon.”  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I would tell you, clearly — I mean, look, the negotiations
are pretty much complete at this point.  And you heard the President say
we’re not going to wait forever for Iran to take this deal — the deal on
the table.  They ought to take it.  
  
I am not going to slap a label on it and say “last ditch,” but clearly
time does appear to be getting very short in terms of being able to get
to a deal.  And again, we urge Iran to take this deal on the table.  
  
No problem in the Middle East — none — gets easier to solve with a
nuclear-armed Iran.  
  
Q    Thank you very much.  The U.S. Senate, as well as President
Zelenskyy, call on the administration to designate Russia as a state
sponsor of terrorism.  Is President Biden willing to do it?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  The State Department is taking a look at the — at the
possibilities around the potential designation.  They’re still looking
at that, and I don’t want to get ahead of their — their process.  
  
I would also add that a lot of the things that that designation — a lot
of the authorities that come with it — I mean, a lot of them — a lot of
the actions you can take, we’re already taking.  
  
I mean, we have levied unprecedented sanctions against Russia just
unilaterally from the United States, let alone the rest of the world.  
  
Q    And one more on China.  You just, a few minutes ago, said that
China is trying to set a new status quo, a new normal.  Could you
elaborate on that?  How do you see — what do they exactly want to
achieve by creating this crisis?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Well, you’ve seen them — you’ve seen them fly over the
median line, you know, on several occasions in just the last 24 hours. 
You’ve seen them now declare naval operating areas — exercise areas much
closer to the island than they did 25 years ago.  You’ve seen them now
fly at least 11 ballistic missiles in and around the Taiwan Strait, and
apparently going — according to our Japanese allies, a couple of them —
at least a couple of them landed in their economic exclusion zone, which
means they most likely flew over the island.  
  
You could see a scenario where they’re just — they’re just taking the
temperature up, right?  They’re boiling the frog, right?  They’re taking
— they’re taking the temperature up to a higher level, with perhaps the
intention of maintaining that sort of intensity or at least being able
to conduct those kinds of operations on a more frequent, regular basis
going forward.  
  
That’s — that’s — that’s a different status quo than the one that we had
just a few days ago, just a week ago.  And we’re not going to —  
  
Q    Are you concerned that they may take a military action against
Taiwan?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I’m not going to speculate for what the Chinese may or may
not do.  We’re telling you what we’re seeing, and we’re telling you what
we’re expecting.  
  
We’re expecting more exercises, more bellicosity and rhetoric.  We’re
expecting additional — additional incursions.  And we’ll see how this
plays out.  
  
As I said, there’s no reason for this to erupt into a crisis.  There’s
no reason for this to come to blows.  And nobody wants to see that
happen.  
  
And I’ll tell you this, having operated a little bit at sea myself, the
more hardware you have in close proximity like that with tensions as
high as they are, the higher risk you get of miscalculations and
mistakes.  And that is what could lead to something getting a lot more
dangerous than it is right now.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay, we have to wrap it up.   
  
Q    So it’s not a crisis right now?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.  One last question.

Q    Mr. Kirby, can you clarify —

MR. KIRBY:  Who’s ask- —  who’s asking —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  (Inaudible.)

Q    Can you clarify whether —

Q    Thank you.

MR. KIRBY:  Yes, sir.

Q    — the White House is —

Q    You said that our policy —

Q    Can you clarify —

MR. KIRBY:  Hey —

Q    — towards China has been consistent —

MR. KIRBY:  Your name is Simon, right?

Q    Yeah, I really wanted —

MR. KIRBY:  Si- — Simon —

Q    — to ask you —

MR. KIRBY:  Simon.  Simon.

Q    — a question —

MR. KIRBY:  Simon.

Q    I’ve been trying to ask you this question —

MR. KIRBY:  Simon.

Q    If you’d allow me to ask you the question —

MR. KIRBY:  Sir, I’m going to — I’m going to call on this man.   
  
Sir, listen now, I’ve been polite to you, but I expect a little bit of
respect in return. 

Q    I respect you.

MR. KIRBY:  You know where we are?  This is the White House Press
Briefing Room —

Q    I know.  I respect you.

MR. KIRBY:  — and you need to be more respectful.  
  
Q    And I’ve been raising my hand since.

MR. KIRBY:  I’m going to call on this reporter.

Q    Thank you.  You have described our policy —

Q    (Inaudible) the White House (inaudible) —

Q    — toward China as consistent and clear, but the U.S. policy toward
Taiwan is also described as strategic ambiguity.  Don’t you think it’s
sort of that ambiguity that has allowed tensions, like we’re seeing now,
to have developed?  
MR. KIRBY:  No, we would not agree with that at all.  No.  
Q    So, on the subject of Americans detained abroad, the United Arab
Emirates detained an American lawyer, a man named — let’s see here —
Asim Ghafoor.  He is an attorney who’s previously represented Jamal
Khashoggi.  It happened shortly before the President’s trip to Saudi
Arabia.  Is there anything you can say about the administration’s
efforts to free him or, sort of, any conversations on — with the UAE?

MR. KIRBY:  There’s not a lot I can say about this particular case,
sir.  We’re certainly aware, monitoring.  I’d refer you to the State
Department to speak more on that.  I’m afraid I just am not able to talk
much about that particular individual and that particular case.

Q    Hungary’s head of state, Viktor Orbán, is coming to the United
States.  He’s going to speak at a conservative political conference in
Dallas.  Has the administration been in touch with Hungary at all over
the trip?  Is there any planned conversation that might happen?

MR. KIRBY:  No and no.  It’s a private visit.

Q    Is the administration concerned at all with, sort of, an
authoritarian-leaning leader coming to the United States to pursue this,
sort of, opportunity?  
MR. KIRBY:  He’s coming at a private — private invitation.  And Mr.
Orbán and the CPAC, they can talk about his — his visit.

Thanks, everybody.  Appreciate it.

Q    Thank you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Thanks, John.  
  
Q    Mr. Kirby, can you react to a letter you received today from a law
firm in D.C.?  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  All right.  We’ll continue.

With that, so we all — we all know how annoying it is when your flight
is canceled or delayed and then it either takes forever to get your
money back or you only get a flight credit for that airline.  I’m sure
many of you have gone through that in the last several months.

Today, the Department of Transportation issued a new rule to fix that. 
If your flight is canceled or delayed three hours for a domestic flight
or six hours for an international flight, you must get a refund within
seven days of a refund request if you paid by credit card.

That refund policy also applies if they change your arrival airport, if
they add more stops, or if they downgrade the class you’re flying in.

The rule also has new protections if you can’t fly due to a pandemic or
medical advice.

Under the DOT’s proposal, when that happens, you’re entitled to a
non-expiring travel credit or voucher or a refund if it’s an airline
that got government assistance during the relevant public health
emergency.

With that, Josh, you want to kick us off?

Q    Yes.  Thanks, Karine.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yes.  
Q    Tomorrow is jobs day, which is like Super Bowl for some of us. 
(Laughter.)  Friday’s —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Is it really?  (Laughs.)  

Q    Look, there are a lot of nerds — (laughter) —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Wow.

Q    — in Washington.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t follow the Super — I don’t follow football,
but wow.

Q    I’m just saying —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  That’s —

Q    — 12 Super Bowls a year is great.  (Laughter.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Sounds exhausting.  (Laughs.)

Q    Friday’s employment report is expected to show the job gains last
month slowed to 250,000 from 372,000 in June.  Does the administration
view this as a sign the economy is healthy?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, as we’ve been saying for many months now, we are
in a — and the President — including the President — has been saying
that we’re in the transition to a stable and steady growth.  And during
that transition, what you’ll see is instead of that record-high-breaking
number — job numbers that we’ve been seeing every month in the realm of
500,000 to 600,000 jobs on average per month, we’re expecting to be
closer to 150,000 jobs per month.

And so that would actually sign — that will be a sign of — of a success
of this transition.  And this kind of job growth is consistent with the
lower — the low unemployment numbers that we’ve been seeing — that rate
of 3.6 percent.  And we see that and others have seen — see that as a
healthy economy.

I’m going to jump around.  
Q    Just — quick one.  One quick one.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t know.  (Laughter.)

Q    With every —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Usually this goes on for a while.

Q    I — I just have one left.  Based on everything that’s happening —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Hmm.

Q    — in Asia right now, does President Biden consider China to be an
opponent or a competitor?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look — and Kirby said this and we’ve been saying this
for the past couple of days — right? — more than a week.  And I’m going
to answer it this way because this goes to why this has come up, which
is the Speaker going to Taiwan.

You know, she has the right to go to Taiwan.  She has the right to
travel wherever she wants.  She is the Speaker of the House.  She is a
member of Congress.  We can — we will not ever tell her where to go.

And we’ve been really clear with — with China.  We’ve — we have said,
“No policy changes at all.”  The One China policy stands.   
  
And — and the President, just a week ago today, spoke to President Xi. 
It was the fifth time that they spoke.  They have — continue to have an
open — an open dialogue.

And so that is — I just want to make that really clear.  And just, you
know, they’re — they’re the ones escalating here.

Q    Just — the relationship moving forward, though, would he consider
China a competitor or an opponent of the United States?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, look, when we — when you think about — when
you think about our economy, when you think about how we’re competing
around the world, around the globe, you think about the CHIPS Act —
right? — in the CHIPS and Science Act — one of the reasons we talked
about making sure that that got done in a bipartisan way — we saw that
happen just a couple of days ago — is we want to be able to compete,
right?  We want to be able to compete with China.  And we want to be
able to have those manufacturing jobs investment in — in the United
States, and also strengthen our supply chain, make sure we strengthen
our national security.

So, you know, as it — it relates to that, in that — in that — in that
realm, you know, yeah, we want to be competitive as a country.

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  When was the last time President Biden spoke with
Senator Sinema?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have a call to read out to you at this time.

Q    Okay.  Can you tell us how he views his role in getting the
Inflation Reduction Act over the finish line?  I know you’ve been asked
some version of this question probably every day this week.  I’m trying
to take another stab at it though.  What does he think he needs to do? 
Is he going to be picking up the phone?  Will he be inviting senators
over here?  What — how does he view his role?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, I can tell you how he views this anti-inflation
piece of legislation.  He’s grateful for it.  He thinks it should be
passed.  He thinks it’s going to change the lives of middle-class
Americans across the country.

When you think about the prescription drugs, when you think about
lowering utility cost, this is going to be critical.  When you think
even about the ACA provisions — lowering healthcare costs, as we talk
about premiums — and how important that is to many Americans.

So that’s how he sees his role in continuing to talk about it.  We have
been talking about these pieces, these components of this legislation
for some time now.  And so, he’s going to continue to have
conversations.  Our — our team is going to continue to have
conversations with members of congress.   
  
And — but he’s been very clear: He wants to see this pass and — and to
his desk so he can sign.  
  
Q    Yeah, but, given how important he believes it is, as you just laid
out: He took a decidedly step back and let Senators Schumer and Manchin
really be the two engaged in the negotiations to get the Inflation
Reduction Act to this point.   
  
So I guess the question is: Does he feel like he wants to have a more
direct engagement in these final rounds of negotiations with Senator
Sinema asking for changes now?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So what we’ve been pretty clear about — I think, for
about a year — actually, probably since the beginning of this year — is
that we were not going to negotiate in public.  We believed that the
Senate, the House — they need to do their work.  They — we let them
speak to the pieces of legislation that they’re putting for — forward,
and they’re trying to move forward.  We support this.  We support the
work that — that Senator Schumer and Senator Manchin are doing.  Again,
this is incredibly important to the American people.   
  
I think, though, what is important — I know there’s always this focus on
Democrats and on what’s happening with members — Democratic members in
the Senate.  I think what’s important here is: When you look at this
bill, when you look at this —  
this anti-inflation piece of legislation, and you look at the support
across the country, it is bipartisan.  It has bipartisan support.  There
was the POLITICO/Morning Consult poll that came out yesterday, more — so
more than 70 percent of support for many components of that bill.   
  
And it’s Republicans in Congress who are opposing us.  They’re the only
ones who are opposing this.  And I think that’s what matters.   
  
What matters to us is what Democrats are trying to do and how we’re
trying to change the lives of the middle class.  
  
Q    Just very quickly, Senator Sinema is not yet supporting it.  And
based on our reporting, she is opposed to closing the carried interest
tax loophole.  Would the President support a final piece of legislation
that did not include that?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, what we — and I can’t speak for Senator Sinema. 
I’m not going to.  She can speak for herself.  I know that she’s more
than capable of doing that.  
  
What I can do is speak for this President and how he sees this piece of
legislation that is so critical and important.   
  
And when you think about the corporate tax component — that 15 percent —
you have corporations who are paying zero dollars.  Zero dollars.  And
this is an opportunity for — to close that loophole.  We’ve heard from —
many experts talk about how — you know, that tax — that 15 percent on
corporate — corporate in- — corporate businesses is going to make a
difference.  It’s going to be able to add — bring — add that $300
billion so that we can bring down the deficit.  It’s going to be able to
have — Americans have lower costs.   
  
And so that’s what we see and we think.  And we have been very clear on
that: how important it is to have — to close that loophole and make sure
that we’re not increasing taxes on middle-class Americans that are
making less than 400,000.   
  
And that does this.  This act does that.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    We have seen big oil companies report huge profits yet again in
recent days.  But since gas prices have started falling, we haven’t seen
the same level of criticism from this administration.  Are — is
profit-taking in that industry and a lack of investment in production
still a big issue —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So —  
  
Q    — for the Biden administration?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So can you say that one more time?  
  
Q    Sure.   
  
We’ve seen big oil companies take big profits —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — make big profits in the recent days.  We haven’t heard the same
level of criticism from this administration since gas prices started
falling.  And I’m just wondering if that is still an — is still an issue
for the Biden administration.  Are you still looking to curb
profit-taking and increase production?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So we’ve been very clear about — about that piece:
making sure that the oil companies — what — the profit that they’re
making actually goes — goes — goes to the American people.  
  
The American — we say this all the time: The American people should not
be the first one to pay the increased costs and the last ones to see the
benefit.  And we all — continue to call on oil companies to make sure
that they pass on that profit to Americans.   
  
I want to talk a little bit about — we had that — the Department of
Energy had that meeting with oil companies, and it was very constructive
— the conversation with oil companies.  And we — we welcome the steps
that they are taking to increase production.   
  
For example — I just want to give you a couple of examples:  
  
After discussions with the Department of Energy, one company just last
week announced that they are bringing back refinery — refining capacity
at a New Jersey facility.  So, that is important.  
  
And in June, America produced, on average, 12 million barrels of oil a
day, and that number continues to increase and is on track to reach high
— a high — record high.  
  
So all of these things are important as we’re trying to bring prices
down.  Oil is down about $25 a barrel from June.  Gas prices have gone
down every day this summer and are now below $4 for most of the
country.  So that indeed matters.   
  
And so, we’re going to continue to do the work.  We know that we have to
give Americans, as you hear the President say, “a little bit of
breathing room.”  And we’re going to continue to do that work to make
sure that happens.   
  
Go ahead.   
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  Does the President have any plans to intervene or
fire the Inspector General of the Department of Homeland Security,
Joseph Cuffari?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No.   
  
Q    We asked your predecessor, Jen Psaki, about this in  
— in April when the leadership of the Senate Judiciary Committee —
Senators Durbin and Grassley — expressed concerns about him.  Obviously,
this was before some of the concerns that have been raised in recent
days about January 6th.  And she said that she would “follow up on
that”.   
  
I’m wondering, have there been any conversations in the White House
about —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  There’s no —  
  
Q    — his leadership and —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  There’s no — there’s no personnel  
updates that I have for you at this time.  
  
Look, the President has been very clear — I think I answered some of
this yesterday — that he believes in the independent role of the
Inspector Generals and that they serve an important function in ensuring
accountability for the American people.  That still stands.  He believes
that.  
  
So, you know, again, we’ve seen the reports, as you’re — as you’re
laying out, and the comments from members of Congress, as you told —
just told me, expressing concerns with his performance.  But, again, we
believe in the independent role, and I don’t have any news for —  
  
Q    Right.  And just to follow up on that, you said the job of the
Inspector General is as you just outlined.  Does the President have
confidence that, given what has unfolded in the past few days and weeks,
he — does he still have confidence in his ability to do that important
job you just outlined?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, it’s important to do the job that the Inspector
General is doing.  We have confidence in that.  And, again, we’re not
going to comment any more, any further than that, but we have seen the
reports.  
  
Q    And just one more that I want to follow up on that I asked earlier
this week — about the President’s own COVID protocols.  As soon as he
tests negative, is he fully free from isolation?  Or is there — I know
other White House staffers have been required to test negative twice
before returning to work.  What are the protocols for the President?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, basically, for isolation — you know, today is day
five of the rebound, because this is not — this is a rebound, not the —
the first — the first — I don’t want to say “bout” because this is a
continuation; it’s just a rebound.  
  
And so he’ll — will remain — he will remain isolated until he tests
negative, as we previously stated.  And so, the — when — when we’re
doing that test to make sure that he’s negative, that is above and
beyond, as you kind of, I think, were alluding to.  That’s — that’s what
the White House protocol is for us.   
  
And so, he — we won’t see him again until, at least in person — you guys
have seen him virtually, and he’s been working from the White House
Residence these past couple of days — until he has — at least in person
— until he has that negative test.  
  
Q    So just one day of — the first time he tests negative, he will be
—  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, the last time we shared — because of his unique
role — right? — he is the President.  And we try to make sure that we
protect all of you and protect the staff — we did do two tests and make
sure they were both negative.  
  
Q    Afghanistan?  
  
Q    Karine, can I follow up on Tyler’s question, please?  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  On the issue of the Chinese tariffs, the President
has been weighing for some time whether or not to ease some of those
tariffs.  And just given the aggressive action we’ve seen out of China
since Speaker Pelosi’s visit, I’m wondering: Will that factor into this
decision on tariffs at all, or does the White House see those as two
separate issues?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m not going to go into any detail of the thinking of
how we’re moving forward with the China tariffs.  I know it’s been on —
the questions of — on the minds of all of you — a question that’s been
out there.   
  
The President is taking this decision very seriously.  And once we have
— once we — once he makes his decision, we will share that with all of
you.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  Just to put a finer point on Tyler’s question: So
will it be two negative tests this time or just one?   
  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yes, it’ll — we — I — we put out a pool note that said
just that, I believe, on Saturday.  
  
Q    I don’t think you guys said clearly whether it was two negative
tests like he did the first time or if one will be sufficient.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, what we’re going to do — there’s five days of
isolation; this is the fifth day — we will have a negative test.  It is
— you know, it is up to his doctor to decide, you know, if there will be
a second one.   
  
What we did last time, what I can speak to — and we shared that — the —
his personal physician shared this: that they did two negative tests
because of the unique role that he has.  And that is something that his
doctor decided.  
  
Q    Okay.  And then, on monkeypox, we learned in the last 24 hours that
the Department of Health and Human Services failed to ask that the bulk
of the stocks of the vaccine that it already owned be bottled for
distribution quickly enough.  And does the President feel like his
administration — and the Department of Health and Human Services in
particular — has acted with enough urgency to confront this monkeypox
outbreak?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So I want us to take a step back on this because this
is really important and I know that many folks have questions about
this.  And we are going to do everything that we can to end this
outbreak.  That is our commitment, and that’s what we’re going to make
sure that we do that.   
  
So, as you all know, the monkeypox outbreak has evolved rapidly and
uniquely from prior outbreaks.  So we are in a different — it’s a
different dynamic than it was the last couple of times, because
monkeypox has been here in this country before.  And so, we have
aggressively responded at different stages of this outbreak.  And so,
just wanted to give you a little bit of that context because it’s
spreading at different phases here.  
  
So, first, within two days of the first confirmed case of monkeypox in
the U.S., we began deploying vaccine to states and jurisdictions and
prepositioning tens of thousands of additional doses in the Strategic
National Stockpile.   
  
The initial science led us to believe — and this, I think, will answer
your question a little bit — based on recent past monkeypox outbreaks,
that those doses would be sufficient to meet the needs of the country as
what we knew at that time — because it’s dynamic, it’s changing.   
  
And so — but however, infectious diseases are dynamic, as I just said,
and unpredictable — inherently unpredictable, which is why as soon as we
saw that this outbreak was different and transmitting much more rapidly,
we quickly moved to order tens of thousands of more doses.   
  
So just to give you a little bit of the numbers that we have: We have
made more than 1.1 million doses available and shipped more than 600,000
doses.  Those are currently out there, going into jurisdictions, to
states, and so — and with more being delivered each day.  
  
We also have ordered 5.5 million additional doses, which are helping us
get more doses out sooner, knowing that more are on the way.  
  
So, this is — this is just part of the process and what — we have been
following the science and making sure that we are — you know, we are
rapidly reacting to this.  And that’s what we’ve been doing these past
couple days.  
  
Q    But just given that there is currently a mismatch between the
number of doses that the government has in bulk, the number of doses
that have been bottled and sent out to state and local authorities, and
then the number of doses that are actually needed, does the President
feel like his administration has acted with enough urgency?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, what we’re — what we’re saying to you is that
I laid out how dynamic and how rapidly changing this virus has been. 
And I’m — and also, you know, we — we just had — they just held — HHS
just held a press conference and talked about this.  That’s why we kind
of moved the briefing, so you all can have a sense to hear what — to
hear directly from them.  
  
There was the 600,000 that they talked about.  They went from testing
capacity from 6,000 to 80,000 a week.  That matters as we’re trying to
make sure we deal with monkeypox.  And we’re working hand in hand with
local authorities to get the resources they need.   
  
And so — and as you also know, we took — they took an additional step,
which is to announce a public health emergency declare — declaration of
monkeypox.  And that’s important because of what that’s going to do;
it’s going to help accelerate the vaccine production and distribution. 
This includes new dosing strategies that have the potential to increase
the number of available doses by fivefold.  
  
So, yes, the President has confidence in HHS.  And — and let’s not
forget we just brought on the monkeypox coordinat- — coordinators — the
response team — which is going to also make a difference.  
  
Q    And on that — on that front, it does seem like this week you’ve
named a monkeypox coordinator, you’ve now declared this public health
emergency.  It seems like the administration is shifting into a higher
gear as it relates to responding to this outbreak.  And I’m wondering,
was there any new information that led to these — these steps and that
higher-geared response?  Because, you know, the WHO — it was nearly two
weeks ago that they called this, effectively, a public health
emergency.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, I think I — I think I answered that in the first
question that you asked, which is: The dynamic of this — of the virus
has changed.  It’s spreading a lot more rapidly than it had in previous
times.    
  
And when we — when we first — when the first two cases came — were —
were known by the CDC back in — back in May, we — we were meeting the
moment at that time.  
  
And so, now, it’s — again, it’s spread much more — it’s spreading much
more rapidly.  It’s — the dynamic of it has changed.  That tends to
happen inherently with viruses.  And so this is what we’re doing right
now to make sure that we are responding to the needs of jurisdictions
and states.  
  
Q    Afghanistan please, Karine?  
  
Q    Karine?  In the way back.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I haven’t called on you.  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Yeah.  Thank you very much.  Can you go back to his event earlier
today?  Mary Barra of GM was there talking about the Inflation Reduction
Act.  One of the debates currently among Democrats is the electric
vehicle subsidy provision.  One of the senators from Michigan has been
objecting to that.  
  
Can you say whether the President discussed the EV provisions in that at
all with the participants in the call, beyond the public media
portion?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I haven’t gotten a download from that call.  And
we were busy doing many other things before coming out here, so I can’t
speak to that specifically.  
  
Q    On another bill: Senator Klobuchar has a Big Tech bill, the
American Innovation and Choice Online Act, that looks like it’s spilling
into September.  Senator Schumer looks like he’s planning to bring it to
the floor in September.  Does the White House have a view on that — on
that bill coming to the floor for a vote in September — the anti-Big
Tech bill, which — or the Big Tech bill that would prevent those
platforms from giving preference to their own products?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, I mean, we’re trying to deal with all the pieces
of legislation we have.  (Laughs.)  
  
Q    A lot of legislation, I know.  I know.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We — there’s a lot going on.  We’re trying to deal
with what we have in front of us.  
  
I would have to —  
  
Q    Senator Klobuchar is very passionate about this issue, I’m sure.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yes, yes, we are aware of that.   
  
I would need to just talk to the Office of Leg Affairs to get more
specifics and details on where we are on that.   
  
As you know, reform in the tech — tech industry is something that’s very
important to the — to the President.  We’ve talked about that many times
in the past 18 months.  
  
But I don’t want to get too — I don’t want to get ahead of our team.  
  
Q    Okay.  And finally, on the — going back to the monkeypox issue, do
you have a sense of whether there will be a need for new funding from
Congress for this?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, again, I would — I — we are — we have been
asking for, as you know, new funding — additional —  
  
Q    On the COVID response —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, for the COVID response.  Again, I would just
have to get in touch with our team.  
  
In some — at some point in the next couple of days or weeks, we will
have the monkeypox coordinators here in front of you, and you all can
—  
  
Q    That would be welcomed.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — can get to know him — both of them and ask your
questions.  
  
Q    All right.  Thank you.  
  
Q    Karine?  
  
Q    Afghanistan, please?   
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  Oh, you want to do this guy?  You go to me next?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, and I’ll come to you after.   
  
Q    Thank you.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I just haven’t — I don’t see you very often.   
  
I see you all the time.  (Laughs.)  
  
Q    Just to follow up on the monkeypox updates: California, Illinois,
New York have all declared states of emergency each.  But due to the
fact that most of them will be — how will declaring monkeypox as a
public health emergency affect colleges and universities in those states
particularly that have already declared a state of emergency?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  How will the states, for themsel- — I — you would have
to — that — you would have to talk to the states directly on that piece,
because that’s their own state emergency — public emergency.  
  
Q    Is there any plan from the White House or any guidelines that would
possibly come down, looking forward to essentially explaining what the
colleges and universities should do?  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — we don’t have anything for you at this time.   
  
But I would go to the state specifically.  You’ve talked about
California, you talked about New York having their own state of
emergency.  I’m sure they have plans as schools are opening back up and
dorms are opening back up.  I’m sure they have specific guidelines to
that that I cannot speak to from here.  
  
Go ahead.  Yeah.  
  
Q    There was a report yesterday that Kyrsten Sinema — number one, she
wants to nix the carried interest loophole, which is like a $14 billion
revenue raiser, and also she wants $5 billion in drought resiliency
funding.  Does the administration think we need a few more billion
dollars for drought resiliency?  Would that be a good thing?   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m not going to — I’m not going to speak to — to what
— what the senator is calling for and asking for.  That’s negotiations
that are happening in Congress.  I’m just not going to speak to that
from here.  
  
Q    And then, can I quickly get you to respond to the Peter Meijer
situation?  He’s one of the 10 Republicans who voted to impeach Trump. 
He went down on Tuesday night.  But the DCCC and other groups were going
hard to boost his pro-Trump opponent.  Does the President have a view of
playing ball in primaries like that in a way that helps Trumpists?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, because of the Hatch Act, I cannot speak to any
political campaigns or elections — midterms including.  And so I just
can’t speak to that at this time.  
  
Q    (Inaudible) about the old — the “old-fashioned days” when you
could, you know, hang out with —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, we don’t —  
  
Q    — a bunch of Republicans.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — do the old-fashioned days.  (Laughs.)  We do it the
right way.   
  
Q    A follow-up on DHS, please?   
  
Q    Afghanistan, Karine?  Afghanistan.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m just going to take — go ahead.  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  Can you walk us through the President’s
involvement and engagement on the monkeypox outbreak: when was the first
time he was briefed on this; how he’s getting updates on case numbers,
testing capacity, vaccine supply and distribution?  How much is he
getting updated on this right now?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  The President is regularly briefed on monkeypox.  This
is something that is — is top of mind as well for him.  And so I can
assure you that he is regularly briefed by his senior teams, also by
Secretary Becerra.   
  
I don’t have a — like, a list of how many times he’s been briefed, but
he’s very aware, clearly, of what’s happening.  And he actually is — is
— you know, is constantly asking, “What are we doing?  How are we — you
know, how are we getting the vaccines out there?”  And is — is clearly
interested in the specifics and making sure we get this under control.  
  
Q    You talked about how this virus has been evolving.  We heard today
from the conference call about how this is spreading very quickly.   
  
One of the criticisms during the baby formula shortage was that the
President acknowledged later that he didn’t realize at the time how bad
that was getting, and that he wasn’t — he didn’t know how quickly that
had gotten bad.  Can you say, now, that the President was informed in a
timely manner about how quickly this was spreading and how fast this was
going?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  What I can tell you is that this is an urgent matter —
monkeypox — for this administration, for this President.  That’s why you
have seen the announcements that we have made in the past several weeks
— not even just today or yesterday or the day before.   
  
Last week, we were announcing vaccines — 800,000 — and now we’re talking
about how much have been shipped.  Now, we just announced the
coordinators for that rapid response team.  
  
Again, this is — this is a virus.  As we know, viruses inherently can be
dynamic.  And — and it is spreading rapidly.  And we — we acknowledge
that.  
  
When we first — when we first heard about the first couple of cases, we
met — we believe we met that moment.   
  
And now we are wrappidit- — wrappiding \[sic\] — wrapping things up and
making — and making sure that we are meeting the moment across the
country in what people need.  That’s why we have 80,000 capacity in
testing.  How important that is.  We went from 6,000 to 80,000.  That’s
why we now have 1.1 million vaccines.   
  
The other thing I do want to say is that, as we accelerated delivering
of 150,000 Jynneos vaccine doses to the U.S., those — these doses, which
had been slated to arrive in November — it’s now going to be in
September.   
  
So, again, we’re — we’re wrap- — we’re taking this very seriously. 
We’re taking — we’re accelerating and strengthening the — and — our
comprehensive response so that we can make sure that we end this
outbreak.  And that is the number-one priority for the President.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  
  
Q    Karine?  A follow-up, Karine?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We’ll be here tomorrow.  I’ll be back tomorrow.  I’ll
be back tomorrow.   
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.   
  
Q    Can I ask you —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  If you — if you take a seat, I promise I will take
your question.  But you have to take a seat.   
  
Q    Really?  (Inaudible.)  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, ever- — I take everybody’s questions if they sit
down.  (Inaudible.)  
  
Q    There are often not seats here.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I would talk to the association then.  
  
4:28 P.M. EDT
