---
date: '2022-08-07'
modified_time: 2022-08-08 10:42:11-04:00
published_time: 2022-08-07 10:29:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2022/08/07/background-press-call-by-senior-administration-officials-previewing-the-u-s-strategy-toward-sub-saharan-africa/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Background Press Call by Senior Administration Officials Previewing the U.S.\
  \ Strategy Toward Sub-Saharan\_Africa"
---
 
   
Via Teleconference

MODERATOR:  Good afternoon, everyone.  Good evening for those of you in
the region.  This is \[moderator\].   
  
This call will be on background for attribution to “senior
administration officials.”   
  
For awareness, not for reporting, on the line are \[senior
administration official\], \[senior administration official\], and
\[senior administration official\].  
  
The contents of the call will be embargoed until 9:30 a.m.  Eastern
Time, tomorrow, August 8th.   
  
And with that, \[senior administration official\], I’ll hand it over to
you to get it started.  Thank you.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Great, thanks so much, and good evening
— or good afternoon, wherever you are.   
  
We’re really excited to share the Biden-Harris administration’s Africa
strategy.  I’ll give you a little background on how it came together.   
  
This was the product of many months of consultations and interagency
deliberations.  \[Senior administration official\] and I believe really
strongly this had to be field driven, so we went out to all of our
embassies on the continent to provide their input and then to engage
with their partners.   
  
We also looked more broadly across the world for countries that have
longstanding interests or new interests in Africa to share their
perspectives.   
  
And then we did a tremendous amount of conversations with our African
Diplomatic Corps, with think tanks, with outside experts — both African,
U.S., and European.  So I really do believe this is a unique document
because it is highly consulted with a lot of inputs from various
perspectives.   
  
I’m going to start with the big picture, which is that the strategy
reframes Africa’s importance to the U.S. national security interests. 
It builds on the Secretary’s speech from November focusing on why the
region is critical to advance our shared global interests.  It’s simply
impossible to meet the era’s defining challenges — from tackling climate
change, the pandemic, food insecurities, to promoting a free and open
international order — without African contributions and, this is the
important part, African leadership.   
  
But the strategy goes beyond the November speech because it really puts
the meat on the bones in terms of how do we engage, with whom, to what
ends, and with what tools.   
  
If you’re going to make a commitment and say that Africa is important to
addressing all of the most challenging problems in the world, that means
you have to invest in African agency, welcome it.  You have to make sure
and work with Africans, give them a seat at the table to help shape the
global response, to provide input on some of the challenges and how we
get through them, and to highlight the opportunities.   
  
What Africans want to hear is not just what we’re going to do in Africa
but what we’re going to do with Africans.  And we accept that we’re
going to have disagreements.  I believe and the Secretary believes that
durable solutions come from disagreements.   
  
The other thing with framing it this way is that the longstanding
priorities of the U.S. government towards Africa — democracy and
governance, peace and security, trade investment, and development — are
not conceived in this strategy as pillars but as pathways, the
(inaudible).  And working with our African partners is the best way that
they engage more globally.   
  
I mentioned a little bit at the top that this is about engagement, and
there’s a number of things that we’re trying to put into the process
that we think will get better outcomes.  One is engaging our African
partners in ways where we share our priorities, we discuss their
agendas, and we identify mutual opportunities to work together.  
  
We know that we’re going to have disagreements, as I said earlier, but
we will lean in, we will (inaudible), and we’ll address these
differences head on.  These are, I think, the hallmark of some of the
President’s engagements so far with African leaders.   
  
We know we have to engage more African states.  It can’t just be with
the largest ones, but small and medium ones — whether it’s from climate
change to pandemic response — are going to play a major role.   
  
We have to think about Africa in the world, so not just the continent
but how it relates to the Indo-Pacific or the Atlantic Basin.   
  
And this administration is focused on what more we could be doing with
the African diaspora.  They are the vanguard of investments.  They are a
source of strength.  And the strategy really commits our government to
do more collaborating with our incredible diaspora.   
  
The strategy has four main objectives.  They are: foster openness and
open societies; deliver democratic and security dividends; advance
pandemic recovery and economic opportunity; support conservation,
adaptation, and a just energy transition.   
  
I know you have a copy of the document, but I’ll just briefly say with
the first objective around openness and open societies, we believe when
nations make decisions in a free and open manner, it benefits Africans
and Americans.  So accountability and transparency are really at the
hallmark of what we’re talking about in this objective.   
  
On democracy and security dividends, we explicitly made the linkage
between the two because that is the reality that countries that are
struggling with insecurity are probably also struggling with governance
and developing services.  And I think the idea of delivering this is
incredibly important here because we know that there is — while Africans
are strongly supportive of democracy, almost 70 percent, supply is low. 
And there’s a question about does democracy deliver.  And this strategy
is really focused on making sure it does.   
  
On pandemic recovery and economic opportunity, we linked these as well
because if the continent is not able to emerge from the pandemic, then
the economic opportunity, the incredible trade investment opportunities
on the continent will be difficult to realize.  So we focus on how to
put those two things together and also recognize that the crisis in
Ukraine, Russia’s war of aggression has also created additional
constraints on African economies, and we have to address that.   
  
And then finally, supporting conservation, adaptation, and a just energy
transition — Africans are the least responsible for global change, and
they’re disproportionately affected by it.  So we need to work with our
African partners to conserve their critical resources, including the
second-largest rainforest, to help them in terms of adapting and having
green energy and clean energy.  And this is a line that really means a
lot to Africans — a just energy transition, thinking about how it’s
inclusive and how development goals remain in place.   
  
I’m going to turn it over to \[senior administration official\] for a
second, but I think it’s just always important to remember that this is
a continent that is young, increasingly connected, and increasingly
urban.  And so, many of the tools that we need to think about has to go
towards that future.  
  
Over to you.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks, \[senior administration
official\].  Hi, everybody.  I won’t speak too long so we can open up
for questions.  I just thought it might be useful to make three
points.   
  
One, I just want to emphasize: I think you heard Secretary Blinken say
before that President Biden gave him the goal, the mission of reviving
and strengthening our partnerships and alliances across the globe.  And
this strategy is a piece of that mission.  And as \[senior
administration official\] said, to do it in a different way that
reflects the dynamism of Africa today.   
  
Two, we’re really delighted to be doing the announcement of the strategy
here in South Africa.  The United States and South Africa are two of the
world’s greatest constitutional democracies.  We have a rich and varied
partnership, and I think it’s a good exemplar of what we’re trying to
achieve in the strategy.   
  
Three, I wanted to share a story — and it’s going to sound like I made
this up — but some of you who are with us today saw that the Secretary
got to meet a few Mandela Fellows.  That’s our great scholarship program
where we bring these outstanding Africans to the States.  And I got to
talk to them, and I explained who I was and what my job was.   
  
And so, I said to them, “So, if you have my job, what would you do?  How
would you change U.S. policy toward Africa?”  And, and literally, they
said, “You need to make sure that you have a collaborative partnership
with us.  It shouldn’t just be the U.S. telling us what to do.”  And of
course, that’s exactly what this strategy is about.   
  
They also said, because they’re bursting with talent and full of pride
and ambition, that, “We want to be leading our communities and our
countries when it’s time for our generation to take over.”  And that’s
part of, again, what we’re trying to do is recognize the reality of the
(inaudible) continent and help make African leaders make sure that their
societies and especially the youth have opportunities to contribute in
the way that they can.   
  
So I’ll cut myself off there so that we can have conversations. 
Thanks.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  We want to just — \[senior
administration official\] is on the line as well.  \[Senior
administration official\], there’s a through line between the strategy
and the summit if you want to just make a couple points.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yes.  Thanks, \[senior administration
official\], and good afternoon, good evening to everyone.  Thanks for
joining.   
  
So, as you all probably know by now, Vice President Harris announced in
her statement to the U.S.-Africa Business Summit in Marrakech last month
the dates for the African Leaders Summit, and President Biden and Vice
President Harris are really looking forward to hosting the summit from
December 13th through 15th, 2022, in Washington, D.C.   
  
This announcement and, indeed, the summit further underscores the
importance of U.S.-Africa relations and the Biden administration’s
commitment to revitalizing global partnerships and alliances, as
\[senior administration official\] just mentioned.   
  
We expect to engage a wide range of African and U.S. stakeholders to
illustrate the breadth and depth of American partnerships with African
governments, institutions, and citizens.   
  
President Biden believes that U.S. collaboration with African leaders,
as well as civil society, the private sector, and members of the
diaspora, and certainly youth and women leaders, is essential to
tackling shared challenges while seizing opportunities.  
  
We expect to have sessions to directly engage civil society, host a
forum on advancing two-way trade and investment efforts with African
leaders in the private sector, as well as a forum focused primarily on
elevating the role of the African diaspora and strengthening our
cultural ties.   
  
We also plan to engage on the key areas of interests, such as food
security, climate and energy, health, multilateralism, peace and
security, and openness and open societies, which is really the through
line flowing from the strategy, as \[senior administration official\]
mentioned.  
  
We believe that Africa will shape the future — and not just the future
of African people, but of the world — and Africa will make a difference
in tackling the most urgent challenges and making the most of the
opportunities we all face.   
  
So, with that, we’ll turn it over for questions.  Thank you.  
  
Q    Hi, thanks very much for doing this.  I just wanted to ask if you
could articulate a little bit more about how the strategy talks about
Russia and China’s influence in the region and America’s place given
their increased influence in the military and the economic sphere, and
how it will message that.  Thank you.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Hi, Missy.  The strategy is focused on
what the U.S. relationship is with African countries.  It certainly
recognizes that many countries are interested in Africa, see their
national security interests in increasing their engagement with the
continent.  But what we’re focused on is the fundamentals, what we’re
hearing from Africans.  And transparency, accountability, openness —
these are the things that Africans care about.  And it’s a place
particularly where we’re best suited to succeed on.  
  
Africans have different views on China.  They vary from interest in
their economic programs to concerns about their labor practices.  And
so, the best way for us to engage with Africans on China or on Russia is
to make sure it’s a free conversation.  And I really think it’s
impressive to see the way that African journalists and legislatures and
environmentalists are talking about what China is doing good but also
some of the negative things.  And creating that space is the best way
that we advance our interests and our African interests.  
  
Q    Hi, thanks very much.  Can you spell out how this strategy will
have — what kind of practical or actual impact the strategy will have on
policymaking?  You mentioned the summit coming up, but can you give us a
sense of what’s the meat behind the broader goals?  
  
And as a follow-up to Missy’s question, as well, I understand your
answer that the strategy doesn’t specifically discuss China, but can you
address how the impact of China and Russia’s own actions in Africa are
influencing U.S. interests and the U.S. desire to have more of a role
there?  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Hi.  This is \[senior administration
official\].  Really, genuinely, this strategy is about how we see
Africa, what Africa wants, our analysis of Africa as a global player and
no longer the isolated or neglected continent, and how to define how we
engage with them.   
  
So the China-Russia thing is very subsidiary from our perspective.  This
was really about how we can do better to work more effectively with
Africans to achieve results in areas that challenge us all.   
  
So, as you guys heard the Secretary say last November — and I’m sure
he’ll say it again tomorrow — we’re not about limiting choices and
nobody, no country should be limiting African choices.  That’s not what
a respectful partnership would do.  So we genuinely are focused on how
we can improve our engagement and achieve shared outcomes.  
  
Q    Hi, everybody.  I wondered if you could talk a little more what
concrete actions the administration would be taking to fulfill this
strategy.  Are we talking about new spending, new deployments?  We’ve
already talked about the summit that’s going to be in December, but what
else — concrete things — that the administration is going to be doing?  
  
And also, I just want to touch on the fact that there’s this talk about
this being an important part of administration’s goals, but we’re more
than a year and a half after the administration took office.  Why is it
coming out now and not earlier on?  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  I think, again, this is not a
dramatically different set of policies.  You’ve seen us do this strategy
this past year.  We have been pushing out really hard in the COVID space
to work with our partners to get vaccines out.  We’ve been working to
help Africa develop its own manufacturing capabilities.  So building on
the great PEPFAR experience, we’ve really engaged significantly; we
really pushed out hard on COVID.   
  
We’ve been leading the world and mobilizing the response to the economic
shock caused by the Russian war in Ukraine.  You’ve seen the
congressional support for additional assistance to help in the short
term.  And we’re also trying to help countries achieve self-sufficiency
and resiliency going forward so that it’s not just a short-term shock,
but that they have their own production capabilities that can withstand
exogenous shocks like this war as well as climate change.   
  
Third, we continue to be the largest humanitarian donor in the world. 
You saw Samantha Power was out in the Horn a few weeks ago announcing $1
billion in assistance to help countries in the Horn deal with a really
historically dreadful drought.  We’re engaged in a lot of diplomacies to
help restore democratic transitions, help reduce tensions and
conflicts.   
  
So, our engagement and partnership is across the waterfront.  And so,
what we’ve been doing since the administration has been in office is of
this theme of how we want to approach working with Africans.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  I would just add one more thing, and
\[senior administration official\] may want to jump in as well, but the
strategy does point to a number of new initiatives and policies.   
  
We just completed a trade deal with Kenya, and we’re very proud of that
in terms of new chapters for trade, and we think it could potentially be
a model.  The strategy focuses on rebalancing towards urban areas.  The
continent is going to be 50 percent urban by the end of this decade. 
And so, we’re preparing to announce an MCC threshold program that is
going to look at urban issues in the major African city, and again,
we’re hoping that, in partnership with Congress, that we can see where
that can go.  
  
And then maybe, \[senior administration official\], you want to talk a
little bit about digital.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Great, thanks, \[senior administration
official\].   
  
Yes, so I was going to say that we have a number of deliverables and
initiatives that we’re — in the works that we’re working on to announce
at the summit and, again, that we’ve been working on throughout the
administration for the past 18 months and will continue to work on.   
  
So, we see the summit as not only a culmination of those but also the
beginning of a very new frontier in terms of the future of our relations
and our relationship with the continent.   
  
So, we’re probably — and you’ve heard me mention this as well in the
past about a new initiative on digital Africa, providing new
opportunities to work together to shape new technologies and
innovations, to support open societies and democracies, as well as to
help foster and boost economic growth and two-way trade investment, in
addition to a just energy transition and governance.   
  
So, stay tuned.  We will have more concrete delivery deliverables to
read out to you as we are get closer to the summit.   
  
Thank you.  
  
Q    Hi, thank you so much for doing this.  Following up with what my
colleagues have already asked, is the administration concerned about
Russia’s attempt to grow its influence in the continent?  Specifically,
how does the administration view private militia groups, such as the
Wagner Group, known to have close ties with the Kremlin?  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thank you for the question.  Obviously,
we’re incredibly concerned about the role of Russian mercenaries in the
Central African Republic, in Mali.  They’re committing human rights
abuses.  They’re not making the security better.  They are focused
mainly on extractive industries, whether it’s diamond or gold.   
  
So African governments have turned to Wagner, and the outcomes are
clear.  They’re impoverishing these countries further.  Mali is isolated
now from the rest of the region.  They’ve now turned against the U.N.   
  
So, we are deeply concerned about the role of Wagner.  But isolating
those two countries, I think, narrows the conversation because most of
our partners in Africa agree — countries in the region are also
concerned about the role of Wagner.   
  
So we’re not alone here.  It’s a disturbing trendline for most countries
in the region.   
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  I was just going to say the same
thing.  I mean, I think the real story about the Kremlin-backed Wagner
Group is that Africans are not interested in the kind of services they
offer, broadly speaking, because they’ve seen the exploitation of
resources, taking them out of Africa abroad and not benefiting the
community here.  And they’ve seen the reckless disregard for civilian
life.   
  
So, I think the important story is that Africans don’t want Wagner here
and (inaudible) and the steps they’re taking to keep them out.  
  
Q    Hi, everyone.  Thanks for doing this briefing.  I was just
wondering if you could explain how this new strategy might apply to hard
problems in places where the U.S. has already been engaged in the last
year in Africa, places like Ethiopia or Sudan or, more broadly, in the
push against Islamist militancy in the Sahel.  It’s unclear to me
whether what you’re explaining is a strategy for a broad diplomatic
engagement with all governments or whether it’s a tool that could be
used specifically in some of those problem areas.   
  
And secondly, if you could just, on the same topic, explain: Is this new
strategy going to change the balance in the U.S. relationship broadly
with African countries with regards to military cooperation?  For
instance, are you talking about, in dealing with African countries, more
on diplomatic fronts than the prior stress on military cooperation? 
Thank you.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thank you for the question.  I’ll
answer a little bit and then share it with \[senior administration
official\].  But I think the crises in Ethiopia and Sudan, and our
approach towards it, are good examples of the strategy’s new vision.   
  
So we’ve been involved in really intensive negotia- — sorry, we’ve been
engaged in intensive support for the Ethiopian — around the Ethiopian
crisis by appointing special envoys; having very high-level engagement,
including President Biden.   
  
And on that call, to the point about having a conversation that
encapsulates the challenges and the opportunities, the President was
clear about his concerns, but also talked about some of the nascent
progress in terms of the ending of state of emergency and the release of
detainees.   
  
And I would actually point to all the President’s engagements of having
that balance: talking about the things that we disagree with, trying to
push towards outcomes, having real consequential calls.   
  
I know \[senior administration official\] would want to say more on
Sudan, but I think both in Sudan and Ethiopia are examples of us
engaging not just with Africans but with a broader set of international
partners, whether they’re in the Gulf or historically in Europe or
making sure that Africans are in the lead in these in these efforts.   
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yes, well, I think Sudan is a terrific
example of the power of youth.  What the young people of Sudan have done
is nothing short of extraordinary in stopping a complete military
takeover.  And they’re working intensively now to finalize a new roadmap
to elections that would have the civilians in control during the
transition.   
  
And none of that would have been possible without the leadership and
sacrifice of the youth in Sudan.  And that’s what we’ve been trying to
do is support them, help them, lean in where we can to help them achieve
that goal, which we share: a democratic Sudan.  So I think it’s a really
good example of the strategy.   
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  And then just on your question on
military, we’ve recognized for a long time that we have to be focused on
political inclusion and economic opportunity as the lines of effort to
address violent extremism — that we still will use military force in a
calibrated and discreet way in certain crises and challenges that affect
and threaten U.S. interests and the U.S. homeland.  But we’re
implementing the bipartisan Global Fragility Act now in coastal
countries — a series of coastal countries: Cote d’Ivoire, Ghana, Togo,
Benin, and Guinea, and then in Mozambique.   
  
In the first case, these are countries that are increasingly concerned
about the threat of terrorism and are working with us to design a
program together on how to address some of these root causes.  And then
in the case of Mozambique, which already has an ISIS affiliate, we’re
working with them there as well.   
  
But I think there’s a cornerstone here of retaining military and
counterterrorism when necessary, when urgent what threatens our
interests, but really broadening our effort so that we are working with
our partners to address the underlying grievances.  
  
Q    Thank you so much for this.  As you mentioned, this is pretty
consistent U.S. policy.  I feel like I’ve heard a version of this speech
every year since about 2007.  So I wanted to ask you where you stand on
specific requests that African leadership have made of the U.S., you
know, does this policy change.  For example, does this new strategy look
at increasing or expanding AGOA commitments or any trade commitments on
the continent? Does it (inaudible)?  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Sorry, you’re breaking up.  
  
Q    Let me just ask you where do you stand on AGOA and trade
agreements, direct military assistance to African countries, the AU’s
demand for more African representation at the U.N. Security Council?  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yes, thank you.  So, again, I think
this strategy focuses on how do we get to certain outcomes.  It still
retains focus on key areas like (inaudible) governance, peace and
security, but it thinks of them as not only ends but as means to reach
an outcome that Africans and the U.S. are striving for.   
  
But in a number of the examples that you raised, we are having those
conversations.  I mentioned earlier a new trade agreement that we made
with Kenya.  In the strategy, we talked about working with Congress on
what a post-AGOA future looks like.   
  
The strategy is very serious about how do we integrate Africa into other
global forums because of the importance of their voice.  And it’s about
thinking more holistically about our military engagement, how it’s
paired with economic inclusion, with political development and democracy
and open societies, as well as trade and investment.   
  
And then, again, I think one of the things this strategy realizes is the
continent is increasingly urban, increasingly young and increasingly
connected.  And so, a number of the policies that we’ve already started
to implement or intend to implement really do reflect that changing
landscape.  
  
MODERATOR:  Thanks a lot.  And to others, as a reminder, this call is on
background attributable to “senior administration officials.”  The
embargo will be lifted at 9:30 a.m. Eastern Time tomorrow.   
  
Thanks, everyone.  
  
END
