---
date: '2022-08-01'
modified_time: 2022-08-02 16:38:28-04:00
published_time: 2022-08-01 18:42:25-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2022/08/01/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-and-national-security-council-coordinator-for-strategic-communications-john-kirby-2/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre and National Security\
  \ Council Coordinator for Strategic Communications John\_Kirby"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

1:54 P.M. EDT

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Good afternoon, everybody.  All right.  I see — oh, my
goodness — some waving happening.  And welcome back.  I see some folks
are back.  All right.  And Happy Monday, everyone. 

So, joining me today is NSC Coordinator for Strategic Communications,
John Kirby.  We know there’s a lot moving today, so Kirby will provide
updates on security assistance for Ukraine, the grain exports coming out
of Odessa, and other foreign par- — policy news of the day. 

He’ll be with us for about 15 minutes or so, and then we’ll end his
portion and then get to the other parts of the briefing.  And I’ll take
some questions after that.

Everybody okay?  Everybody settled back there?  (Laughter.)

All right.  Kirby, it’s all yours. 

MR. KIRBY:  Thanks, Karine.  All right, good afternoon, everybody.  Just
a few things — a few things at the top. 

Today, I think you’re tracking the first ship successfully left the port
of Odessa in Ukraine under this recent deal between the United Nations,
Turkey, Ukraine, and Russia. 

We obviously welcome this important step, and we hope to see more ships
depart in the coming days to travel onward to world markets with
agricultural products such as grain, wheat, sunflower oil, and corn. 
The ship that left today had something like 20 thou- — 26,000 tons of
corn.

Russia has, of course, weaponized food and has effectively blockaded
Ukraine’s ports since the beginning of this crisis.  And we urge Russia
to meet its commitments under this new arrangement, including by
facilitating unimpeded exports of agricultural products from Black Sea
ports in order to ease the food insecurity around the world.  So we’re
going to be watching that closely. 

Also, on Ukraine: Today, National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan; the
Secretary of State, Tony Blinken; and the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs
of Staff, General Mark Milley, spoke together with their Ukrainian
counterparts about the enduring U.S. support to Ukraine as the Ukrainian
people continue to stand up to Russian aggression, and to inform them
about a new $550 million security assistance package that the Biden
administration will authorize today.  This follows Secretary Austin’s
call with his Ukrainian counterpart on Friday where he previewed that
package. 

Today’s announcement is going to include more ammunition for the High
Mobility <s>Advanced</s> \[Artillery\] Rocket Systems, otherwise known
as HIMARS — I know you all are familiar with that — as well as
ammunition for the 155-millimeter artillery systems, which have already
been supplied to Ukraine and are in the field. 

This will be the 17th, now, time that the Biden administration has
authorized the security assistance package using Presidential Drawdown
Authority since President Biden took office, and it brings to more than
$8 billion drawdown authority alone in material and security assistance
for Ukraine just since the invasion began in late February. 

Now, on Taiwan, because I know that’s on everybody’s mind today, I want
to reaffirm that the Speaker has not confirmed any travel plans.  And it
is for the Speaker to do so, and her staff.  So we won’t be commenting
or speculating about the stops on her trip. 

We have been clear from the very beginning that she will make her own
decisions and that Congress is an independent branch of government.  Our
Constitution embeds a separation of powers.  This is well known to the
PRC, given our more than four decades of diplomatic relations.  The
Speaker has the right to visit Taiwan, and a Speaker of the House has
visited Taiwan before without incident, as have many members of
Congress, including this year.

The world has seen the United States government be very clear that
nothing has changed — nothing has changed — about our One China policy,
which is of course guided by the Taiwan Relations Act, the Three Joint
U.S.-PRC Communiqués, and the Six Assurances. 

We have said — and we have repeatedly said — that we oppose any
unilateral changes to the status quo from either side.  We have said
that we do not support Taiwan independence.  And we have said that we
expect cross-Strait differences to be resolved by peaceful means. 

We have communicated this directly to the PRC at the highest levels,
including as recently as last week in the phone call between President
Biden and President Xi. 

The National Security Advisor, the Secretaries of State and Defense, the
Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff have also made this very clear to
Beijing in a half a dozen recent high-level conversations. 

Put simply, there is no reason for Beijing to turn a potential visit
consistent with longstanding U.S. policy into some sort of crisis or
conflict, or use it as a pretext to increase aggressive military
activity in or around the Taiwan Strait.

And yet, over the weekend, even before Speaker Pelosi arrived in the
region, China conducted a live-fire exercise.  China appears to be
positioning itself to potentially take further steps in the coming days
and perhaps over longer time horizons. 

Now, these potential steps from China could include military
provocations such as firing missiles in the Taiwan Strait or around
Taiwan; operations that break historical norms such as large-scale air
entry into Taiwan’s Air Defense Identification Zone — “ADIZ” — I think
you all know that acronym; air or naval activities that cross the median
line; and military exercises that can be highly publicized. 

This could also include actions in the diplomatic and economic space,
such as further spurious legal claims by Beijing’s public assertions
last month — oh, I’m sorry — like Beijing’s public assertions last month
that the Taiwan Strait is not an international waterway. 

Some of these actions would continue concerning trendlines that we’ve
seen in recent years, but some could be of a different scope and scale. 

Last time Beijing fired missiles into the Taiwan Strait was 1995 and
1996, after Beijing reacted provocatively to Taiwan’s president’s visit
to deliver an address at his alma mater. 

I want to contrast this now between the United States and China.  We and
countries around the world believe escalation serves no one.  Beijing’s
actions could have unintended consequences that only serve to increase
tensions. 

Meanwhile, our actions are not threatening and they break no new
ground.  Nothing about this potential visit — potential visit — which,
oh, by the way, has precedent — would change the status quo.  And the
world should reject any PRC effort to use it to do so.

We will not take the bait or engage in saber-rattling.  At the same
time, we will not be intimidated.  We will keep operating in the seas
and the skies of the Western Pacific as we have for decades.  We will
continue to support cross-Strait peace; stability; support Taiwan, of
course; defend a free and open Indo-Pacific.  And we’re still going to
seek to maintain lines of communication with Beijing. 

All of that is important.  And all of that — all of it — is preserving
the status quo. 

We expect to see Beijing continue to use inflammatory rhetoric and
disinformation in the coming days. 

The United States, by contrast, will act with transparency.  We’ll stand
up here.  We’ll answer your questions.  We’ll give you the facts. 

We’re also committed to keeping open lines of communication with
Beijing, as I said.  This is what the world expects of not just the
United States, but of China.  And we encourage Beijing to keep that
commitment as well. 

With that, we’ll go to some questions.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  Go ahead, Nancy.

Q    Thanks, John.  So, given all the saber-rattling that’s being done
by China and the fact that Speaker Pelosi is still considering a trip,
the fact that you’re laying out all the possible reactions that China
could have, should we take this as a sort of test of China’s willingness
to make good on some of its designs on Taiwan or a test of whether
they’ve learned some of the lessons that Russia learned by Ukrai- —
invading Ukraine?

MR. KIRBY:  The short answer to your question — and then I promise I
won’t just leave it with a short answer — is that’s a better question
for President Xi and what’s in his mind over this.

I think we’ve laid out very clearly that if she goes — if she goes —
it’s not without precedent.  It’s not new.  It doesn’t change anything. 

I mean, what we would hope they infer from everything we’ve done and
everything we’ve said, including during the President’s phone call, is
that we’re being consistent.  There’s no change. 

We — we’ve not ramped up the rhetoric.  We’ve not changed our behavior. 
Everything we’ve done is consistent with our obligations and our
commitments. 

Q    But if the policy hasn’t changed, then why was the Speaker being
urged not to go?

MR. KIRBY:  I don’t know that she was urged not to go.  Who urged her
not to go?

Q    The President said on August 20th that the military doesn’t think
it’s a good idea for her to go.

MR. KIRBY:  The Speaker makes her own decisions.  What we did was
provide her context, analysis, facts, information so that she can make
the best decision possible for every stop, for every overseas travel. 

And again, I’m not going to get ahead of her or her staff here with
respect to the rest of this trip. 

Q    Does the U.S. military still think it’s not a good idea?

MR. KIRBY:  I would refer you to the military.  Again, we — as a
national security team, not just DOD — we are obligated and we take that
obligation seriously to make sure she has all the context she needs
before she travels overseas, and we did that.

And, oh, by the way, we’ll continue to do that throughout the remainder
of her trip for anything else that she needs to make sure she has a
successful visit.

Q    Thank you.  You’ve been emphasizing the separation of powers and
the separation of the legislative branch from the executive.  Does the
White House feel confident that President Xi understands that
separation?

MR. KIRBY:  As I said in my opening statement, we’ve had, you know,
diplomatic and bilateral relations with the PRC for decades.  They
understand well.  I can’t speak for President Xi; I wouldn’t do that. 
But our assumption is they understand very well how our Constitution is
organized and that there are three equal branches of government.

Q    You know, I don’t think I’m hearing you say “yes” to that
question.  Am I —

MR. KIRBY:  I said it in my opening statement that the PRC understands
well the separation of powers.

Q    If you are confident about that, was this an issue that President
Biden raised directly with President Xi during their phone call?  We
didn’t get a very detailed readout of the detailed discussions they had
during that phone call last week.

MR. KIRBY:  The President, in his conversation with President Xi, made
clear that Congress is an independent branch of government and that
Speaker Pelosi makes her own decisions, as other members of Congress do,
about their overseas travel.  That was made clear.

Q    Can I just do one more follow-up?  If the policy is that the
President wouldn’t encourage or discourage a lawmaker from traveling to
a specific place because of the separation, if a senior lawmaker were to
plan a trip right now to, say, North Korea or Moscow, would we not hear
the President weigh in in those instances?

MR. KIRBY:  I think you would see the President be consistent.  We
provide members of Congress facts, analysis, context.  They make their
own decisions about where and when they’re going to travel.  We do the
best we can to provide advice and counsel and context and information,
and that will continue.  There’s nothing inconsistent about that at all.

I just realized I had my badge on.  I got to take this off.

Q    Has anyone in the administration or in this White House explicitly
spoken with the Speaker and said, “You should not go on the trip”?  I
know the President has not done that.  But has there been any
communication from senior national security officials inside this White
House with the Speaker?

MR. KIRBY:  There have been direct conversations with the Speaker and
her staff before she left at various levels in the national security
establishment.  The President did not speak directly with the Speaker
about this trip.

I am not going to divulge the contents of those conversations that we
have — I mean, with her, particularly with the Speaker.  I will just go
back to what I said before, Tyler: fulsome discussions, context,
analysis, facts, information about her overseas travel, which is
completely consistent with the way we do it in the past.

Q    It seems like this trip obviously is sparking a little bit more
anxiety inside this building and throughout the administration.  And I
understand that you said the President respects the independence.  But
given the national security risks at play in China’s escalating
rhetoric, was there not a discussion inside this administration about
whether or not you should take a more urgent (inaudible)? 

As MJ just alluded to, if there were other countries at play here, we
might see different response.  Given what China has said it might do in
response to a trip, that puts all Americans at risk in their national
security.  Did the President feel that maybe this is a different case
that he should be more involved or his team should be more involved than
he might (inaudible)?

MR. KIRBY:  I mean, again, I’m not going to get into the details of the
conversation.  They were comprehensive discussions about — about what
she wanted to achieve on this trip, where she wanted to go.  And we
provided her the same set of context and information that we have in the
past with respect to her overseas travel.  I’m not going to get into the
details of that.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Phil, in the back.

Q    Thank you.  I guess I’m wondering: Why did the President bother
with this drama from the beginning?  I mean, why not — rather than
saying the military doesn’t think it’s a good idea to go, why not call
the Chinese bluff or tell them to pound sand when they started
bellyaching about the possibility of this trip, given, as you pointed
out, there’s no change in policy and there’s precedent for Pelosi to
visit Taiwan?

MR. KIRBY:  So what’s the drama?  What — what —

Q    Have you watched the briefings the last couple of weeks?  I mean,
there’s been this question of whether or not —

MR. KIRBY:  Yeah, I’ve been here the last couple of weeks.  I haven’t
seen any drama.  I think —

Q    There’s been this question of whether or not the President wants to
see her go.

MR. KIRBY:  I think you’re manufacturing it with your question.

Look, we have been nothing but clear with the Chinese about where we
stand on the issues and the One China policy and our support for a free
and — free and open Indo-Pacific.

Look, I want to go back to what I said at the ou- — at the beginning
because — and I hope you took note: Nothing has changed. 

There is no drama to talk to.  It is not without precedent for a Speaker
of the House to go to Taiwan, if she goes — and I’m not confirming that
she is.  And it’s certainly not without precedent for members of
Congress to travel to Taiwan; it has been done this year, and I’m
certain that it will be done in the future.

We have no interest, as I said in my opening statement, of increasing
tensions here.  We have no interest in changing any of the approach —
approach that we take as a government or in keeping with our allies and
partners to wanting to see cross-Strait tensions be resolved peacefully,
without a unilateral change.

So I don’t know about the drama that you’ve — you’re claiming exists. 
It’s quite the contrary here.  And the point that we have made — I made
it again today, and President Biden made it with President Xi — is:
Everything here is consistent. 

There is no reason to use a potential visit to — to justify or to spark
some sort of crisis or conflict.  We certainly aren’t — have no interest
in that.  And there’s no justification to use a potential visit as a
pretext to conduct what could be escalatory measures, such as the ones I
detailed in the opening statement.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Nadia.

Q    Hi, John.  You keep saying that the Speaker has the right to make
her own decision and another Speaker visited before, which I believe you
talk about Gingrich when he visited in ’97.

MR. KIRBY:  That’s right.

Q    But it’s different timing.  There is more tension.  And the Speaker
represents the President’s party.  So while she has the right to make
her own decision, why can’t you say that the White House disagree with
her decision because that will cause more tension? 

MR. KIRBY:  Because —

Q    Can’t you just say — (inaudible) that she basically — that the
White House disagree with her visit?

MR. KIRBY:  I’m sorry, but you’re asking me why I can’t just say we
disagree with the visit?

Q    Correct.  Because it — for all the conversation we’re just having
now, it would cause more tension.

MR. KIRBY:  All right, so two things.  One, there’s been no discussion
by the Speaker about what’s next on her trip.  So you’re — you’re asking
me a question as if she’s already somehow confirmed that she’s going to
Taiwan.  I haven’t seen any such confirmation.  And again, I would point
you to the Speaker and her staff to talk about her — her itinerary.

And number two: Again, our responsibility is to make sure that she and
her team have all the information they need.  And we keep that line of
communication throughout a trip as we should; of course, it’s a
requirement.  But the Speaker and her staff who advises her, they make
the decision.

So you guys seem to be — or your question seems to presume that we
should have, you know, stamped the trip with some sort of approval or
disapproval, and that’s not the way this works.  Congress is an
independent branch of government.

  
Q    Can you confirm if she’s traveling on commercial flights or is she
going officially on a government plane?  Because that will be
interpreted by the Chinese differently, regardless of what we say in
here.  
  
MR. KIRBY:  It is commonplace for the Speaker to travel aboard a U.S.
military transport aircraft.  That’s very typical.  
  
Q    Has the administration been in touch with the Chinese government
since the President’s last conversation with President Xi?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I’m sorry, say that again?  
  
Q    Has the administration — people in the administration been in touch
with the Chinese government since the President’s conversation?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I’m not aware of any specific communications after that
call.  
  
Q    Okay.  And what planning is being done in advance to ensure that
there won’t be any dangerous fallout if she does indeed go to Taiwan?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Well, without getting into details, I think you can
understand that part of our responsibility is to make sure that she can
travel safely and securely.  And I can assure you that she will.  
  
Q    Admiral, what about Russia —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Kelly O.  
  
Q    What about Russia banning a Jewish agency —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Kelly O.  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Sir.  Sir, I’ll tell you what.  Sir, let Karine — please let
Karine call.  
  
Q    In terms of the Speaker’s agenda and her motivation for going,
which does seem to be different than the President’s set of issues,
since he has said publicly the military doesn’t think it’s a good idea
and he has not come out and given a fulsome support for this trip, if it
happens — what is your sense about her advocacy for democracy, for
self-rule in Taipei if she were to go there and the impact of that if
she were to make that kind of a statement — long-held views on the part
of the Speaker — and how that might have an impact?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Well, the Speaker can speak for herself.  And whatever she
wants to say on this trip is really her prerogative. 

That’s why it was so important for me in my opening comments, Kelly, to
make clear what this administration’s policy is with respect to the One
China principle — I’m sorry, the One China policy, as well as — as not
wanting to see cross-Strait tensions resolved by anything than other
than peaceful means, and the fact that we don’t support Taiwan
independence.  
  
That was important for me to lay that down right at the outset.  That’s
our policy.  That’s this administration’s approach.  I can’t speak for
what Speaker Pelosi may do or say on this trip.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay, Jeff.  
  
Q    Just one question here — if I may follow up, Karine.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Sure.  
  
Q    Because of the closeness between the Speaker and the President, it
does raise the question about: Is she sort of pressing a foreign policy
that may, in fact, put the President in a bad position?  Is that the
sense of this White House?

  
MR. KIRBY:  The President is comfortable with the position that this
administration continues to take, which has longstanding, historic
precedence.  And I went through it all at the opening statement.  
  
The President is very comfortable with — with our policy with respect to
China and to Taiwan, and he had an opportunity last week to reaffirm
those policies and his views in his direct discussion with President
Xi.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay, just a few more.  Go ahead, Jeff, and then Joey
and Darlene.  
  
Q    Thank you very much.  
  
Q    Thanks.  
  
Q    John, you mentioned the potential of missile launches by China. 
Are the people of Taiwan at risk if Speaker Pelosi makes this visit? 
And is she at risk if she makes this visit?

  
MR. KIRBY:  Well, we certainly don’t think there’s any reason for
anybody to be at risk here with a potential visit.  Again, it hasn’t
been announced, and I won’t speak for Speaker Pelosi.  But there’s
certainly no reason for this to come to blows.  There’s certainly no
reason for this to escalate.

  
And as for the potential risks, I think that is a better question put to
the PRC and to the PLA Army and Navy and the Air Force.  
  
We’re going to watch this very, very closely.  We’re going to make sure
that she has a safe and secure visit, because that’s our
responsibility.  
  
And we urge — as I said at the outset, we urge China to — if she goes —
to see this for exactly what it is: nothing new.  No change to our
policy, and certainly not an unprecedented visit by the Speaker of the
House.  
  
Q    You also said the U.S. will not be intimidated.  Do you feel that
using language like that right now will be viewed by China in a way that
you are also raising rhetoric the way they have?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  You said it right at the top, that they have — they have
been out there, in recent days, with some irresponsible rhetoric.  We
feel it’s important for everybody in the region to understand how
seriously we take our security commitments in the Indo-Pacific, and
that’s why we put it that way.  
  
There’s no reason, Jeff, for this to — to, honestly, there’s just no
reason for this to escalate.  And, in fact, there’s — there’s every
reason, given the — our national security interests, as well as the
interests of our allies and partners that — that are at stake in the
Indo-Pacific on any given day, there’s every reason for this to not
escalate and for the lines of communication to remain open between
Washington and Beijing.  And that’s what we’d like to see happen.

  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Joe.  
  
Q    Yeah, thanks, John.  Does the White House currently know whether
Speaker Pelosi is planning to go to Taiwan?  I realize she has not
announced anything publicly.  You’ve also said White House officials
have been talking to the Speaker’s staff.  So does the White House
currently have knowledge whether she is planning to go to Taiwan?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I am not going to talk about the Speaker’s itinerary.  I’m
just not going to do that.  
  
And, Jeff, I want to go back to one other thing, if I may —

Q    Sure.

MR. KIRBY:  — because it was in my mind and I — flew out of my mind, as
I was answering your question is: When you talk about, “Are you
threatened?” — these kinds of potential operations — military operations
and exercises and missile launches that I talked about.  I mean, what
that does is it does increase the risk of miscalculation, as I said,
which could lead to unintended consequences.  And that’s really the risk
to your — you asked specifically, “Are they at risk?”  
  
Q    Yeah.  
  
MR. KIRBY:  That’s where the risk comes in.  It’s — it’s not so much
that there might be a direct attack, but it raises the stakes of
miscalculation and confusion, which could also lead to unintended
consequences.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay, Darlene.  And then I’m going to take some in the
back.  
  
Go ahead, Darlene.  
  
Q    John, given everything that you’ve laid out here, why do you think
China is reacting the way it is reacting to this Speaker and this
trip?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  It’s difficult to know specifically.  And you’re kind of
asking me to get inside their brains, and I don’t know that I’m
comfortable doing that.  I think, again, that’s a question better put to
President Xi and the PRC and their — and their military leaders.

There has been — you’ve heard Chairman Milley talk about this even
before we were talking about a potential visit by the Speaker —
increasing aggressiveness by PLA military forces in the region alone —
violations in air and sea space across the Strait, more aggressive and
proximate military exercises, and, of course, in their rhetoric.  
  
I mean, this has been going on now for months.  And if you really want
to, you can go back years, in terms of Chinese coercion and intimidation
tactics, even just in the military environment, in the South China Sea,
East China Sea.  So, been building.  
  
I can’t account for why they have answered the — just the possibility of
this visit in the — in the manner in which they’ve done.  I can only
account for President Biden and for this administration and for how we
are trying to manage tensions and, quite frankly, manage this — one of
the most consequential bilateral relationships in the world.  And that
is by making it clear what we’re seeing, sharing it with you, making it
clear that there’s no reason for — whatever the reason is, there’s no
reason that it should spark some kind of conflict or that it should
precipitate increased tensions or serve as some sort of pretext for some
sort of what they would consider a reaction.

  
If the Speaker goes, completely consistent with what’s been done in the
past and certainly not at all a statement about any change to American
policy, with respect to One China and to — and to cross-Strait tensions,
and, quite frankly, to our obligations under the law to continue to
support Taiwan’s self-defense.

  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay, we’re going to —  
  
Q    And if she does go to Taiwan, how will the White House find out
about it?  Will she call someone on the Nat Sec team?  Will you see it
on television?  How will you know?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Well, look, the Speaker is flying aboard a military
aircraft, so we’ll know.  (Laughter.)  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  We’re just going to do two in the back,
and then we got to wrap it up. 

Go ahead, S.V.  All the way in the back.  Yep.

  
Q    Admiral, you talk about the separation of the Congress and the
White House and the executive branch, but when she takes a military
aircraft, how then do you — which is under the control of the President
— how do you make the case that, “Well, we had nothing to do with this
at all”?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I didn’t say we had nothing to do with this at all.  No —
we’ve never said that at all.  We — (laughs) — from the time she
informed us that she was going to go overseas, we put the gears in
motion like we always do.  And that is to provide military
transportation — nothing new about that; provide her team with
information, context — you’ve heard me, you’ve heard Karine talk about
that — nothing new about that.  
  
I mean, it’s not that we’re not involved, but we don’t make the decision
for the Speaker.  She makes her own decisions.  We give her advice and
counsel and context.  She makes her own decisions.  And the President,
having long served in the Senate himself, he understands and respects
the institutional prerogatives of members of Congress.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  Last question.  All the way in the back,
with the glasses.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  I have a quick question about the Iranian-American
dissident journalist Masih Alinejad.  During an interview on CNN this
morning, she called on the Biden administration to expel Iranian
diplomats, contending the regime has now twice challenged the U.S.
government on U.S. soil, alluding to the kidnap plot last year and then
the arrest last week of a man near her home with a loaded rifle.  Is
that something that the White House is even considering, or are there
are other diplomatic levers the President is prepared to pull?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  There’s — there’s somewhat of a limit to what we can say on
that, so let me just lay it out for you.  We — the United States
condemns the apparent attempt to harm leading Iranian activist and U.S.
citizen Masih Alinejad at her home in New York last week.  We commend
law enforcement’s swift and effective response to this apparent threat
to her.  
  
This is an open criminal investigation, and so I’m going to refer you to
law enforcement for any further comment.  
  
While we wait to see the results of that investigation, we do want to
reaffirm that it is a first priority for the Biden administration to
counter the threat posed by Iran, including against dissidents that are
living in the United States, and current and former U.S. government
officials.  
  
Okay.  Thank you, everybody.  Appreciate it.  Thank you.

  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  Thanks, John.  
  
MR. KIRBY:  You bet.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right, just have one thing at the top: gas
prices.  
  
Just to provide you all an update on where we are currently with gas
prices, we have now been falling for almost seven straight weeks.  As of
this morning, gas prices have dropped 81 cents per gallon since their
peak in June, as you’ll see from the chart to my left here.  That means
American families who — with two cars are saving $80 a month.  Drivers
can now find gas for $3.99 or less at around half of all gas stations
across the country.  And average gasoline prices have come below $3.99
in 19 states.

Putin’s war is still putting pressure on global oil supply, but
President Biden is taking historic action to mitigate its impacts on
American families.  He is releasing 1 million barrels of oil a day from
the Strategic Petroleum Reserve, which is a historic action that he’s
taken.  He rallied global partners to release millions of barrels of
oil.  And under President Biden, U.S. oil production is up and track —
and on track to reach a record high. 

The Treasury Department estimates that the historic release of oil by
President Biden and international partners has reduced gas prices by up
to about 40 cents per gallon, as we have shared with you all last week. 
More work remains, but the fact is that we are currently experiencing
the fastest decline in gas prices in over a decade. 

And with that, Darlene.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  A couple of questions about the President and his
latest bout with COVID.  The first time he tested positive, the White
House had identified 17 contacts.  Can you update us on those?  And
then, were there any additional contacts from him testing positive again
over the weekend that we should be aware of?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So those 17 are — continue to test negative.  So
that’s the update on the first positive test that the President had that
we shared with all of you.

With this positive test that we saw and shared with all of you, again,
on Saturday, there’s been seven — I mean, not seven — I apologize — six
close contacts.  And those — those six individuals continue to test
negative. 

Q    Has he resumed the blood-thinning medication that he had stopped
when he was on Paxlovid?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  He has resumed all the medication that he was on — the
medication that he was on before. 

Q    Okay.  And I have one final question quickly.  There was video of
him yesterday FaceTiming with the folks — the veterans camping out on
Capitol Hill.  We haven’t seen anything from him today.  Can you give us
a sense of how he’s doing with having to go back into isolation?  I
mean, is he, you know, frustrated?  And how is he dealing with being
away from the First Lady for as long as he’s been? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, the day is still young.  You never know.  But,
look, the President —

Q    Does that mean she’s coming home?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m just making a joke.  Clearly it was not funny. 

Q    Funny joke.  (Laughter.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I will try harder next time to be more funny. 

But, look, he is continuing to work from the Residence.  And I just want
to share: As we all know, the President is fully vaccinated; he’s fully
— he’s double boosted.  He was on treatment for Paxlovid.  And — and
because of that treatment, he had very mild symptoms.  And we had said
with Paxlovid there would be — a small percentage of folks do have a
relapse.  This is what we saw.  But he’s doing well.  You saw him — as
you said, Darlene — and he said he’s fine.  He sounded great.  And he’s
looking — as we know, he’s someone who likes to be out there with the
American people.  He’s looking forward to being out there again. 

And yeah, but he’s going to continue.  It doesn’t stop him from doing
his job and doing the work of the American people.  So he is in the
White House Residence, and he’s going to continue to do that as he
isolates for a couple more days.

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  A couple of clarifications points on that.  Dr.
O’Connor said today that the President is feeling fine, but you didn’t
mention symptoms.  Can you clarify on whether he’s even experiencing any
minor symptoms, congestion?  Where are we on that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, he is not experiencing — we haven’t seen any
reoccurring symptoms.  That was in Dr. O’Connor’s letter on Saturday, so
that continues to be true.  I spoke to Dr. O’Connor not too long before
coming out to talk to all of you. 

As you know — some of you have had COVID; some of you have loved ones
and close friends who have had COVID — those symptoms that you have
don’t go away right away.  They kind of linger.  Those minimal symptoms
kind of linger for some time.  So you could expect that, and so — with
that.  But there’s no — no reoccurring symptoms.  He’s — he’s actually —
he’s feeling fine. 

Q    The CDC guidelines on the so-called “Paxlovid rebound” are a little
unclear.  Can you clarify on what the expectation is of how long the
President will continue to isolate?  Is it five days after the rebound
positive?  Is it — are we looking at another sort of clear, set the
clock, and 10 days out from the rebound positive?  What’s the — the
guidance on that? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, he’s going to abide by CDC recommendations, so it
would be five days as far as the isolation.

Q    From Thursday?  From the — or Wednes- — the rebound —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  The rebound. 

Q    Saturday.

Q    Saturday, right.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  On Saturday, yes. 

Q    Okay. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  You’re about to get me — yeah — (laughs) — I was,
like, going back and forth there.

Q    Okay.  And then, did — were you able to get a sense of the
President’s reaction to Senator Manchin yesterday repeatedly refusing to
get behind an endorsement for a reelection?  And does the President — if
you did get a reaction to that — feel like members of his own party are
undermining him on that front?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — I mean — you know, I saw those interviews.  I
wouldn’t say he was undermining.  It — from what it looked like to me,
Sen- — Pres- — Senator Manchin is very much focused.  He went on — he
went on the shows to focus on the Inflation Reduction Act.  He was very
— he was zeroed-in on that and laid out why this is going to be a
benefit for middle-class families and why it’s going to lower costs and
why it is an investment — a historic investment in — in — you know, that
we have not seen in a long time, whether it’s climate change or, just in
general, as we try to reduce inflation and fight that back and figure
out how do we continue to lower the deficit.  And so —

Q    And he was also repeatedly asked whether he would support President
Biden in a 2024 reelection —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  But here’s the thing —

Q    — and he repeatedly refused to go there. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  But here’s — okay, so here’s — here’s what I say —
I’ll say about this — and, you know, we from — from the podium, I really
cannot dive into any election.  But I’ve been really clear, and the
President has been asked this question many times, that he intends to
run in 2024.  He plans to run in 2024.  That is way off — like, we are —
we are a long ways away from 2024. 

And here’s the thing: Our biggest thing right now is to not be
distracted.  You saw CHIPS pass last week, which is going to be a huge
investment in manufacturing in lo- — in really strengthening the supply
chain.  I was just talking about national security, so it will
strengthen our national security.  Huge deal. 

And now what we — we still have a few things ahead of us that’s going to
be really important to get that done for the American people.  So we’re
going to stay focused, and so we’re not going to be distracted.  And
that’s — that’s how we see things at this time. 

Go ahead, Jeff.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  A follow-up on the COVID topic.  Is it possible
that the President, in his understandable desire to show that he was
able to work through his first bout of COVID, pushed himself too hard
and that that is partially what led to this coming again?  I mean, any
body, be it 79 or 46, has to rest when you get this.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No.  (Laughs.)  Just to answer that very —

So, look, you know, we were — we were transparent that we were aware
that when it comes to Paxlovid, that there’s a small chance — right? —
there’s a small chance of relapse.  It is not uncommon.  It does
happen.  And here’s the thing: The President, according to his doctor,
had very mild symptoms.  And so we don’t think that, you know, he
overexerted himself or was the right — wrong decision.  It was — it was
because of how he was doing at the time. 

And so, again, we were transparent about what we thought could
potentially happen.  And — you know, and we also were transparent that
if he were to test positive again, have — or have that relapse, we would
share it, which we did. 

And — and now he’s feeling fine.  He’s doing well.  He’s doing the
business of the American people in the White House Residence, and he’s
looking forward to — to be out here again.

Q    Okay.  And then one other topic.  What’s the next step, from the
White House’s perspective, on the Inflation Reduction Act?  Do you — and
have you had any signals from Senator — Senator Sinema as to whether or
not she will support it?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So I’m — I’m not going to get into details about any
conversations that we’re having with congressional members.  I will say,
and I’ve said this before: Our White House staff — White House officials
here continue to be in touch with folks in the House in offering any
technical assistance, offering any guidance that folks might need
there.  So we’ll continue to do that. 

And, you know, I’ll leave it to Senator Manchin, who spoke to that and
was — again, was asked many questions about Senator Sinema.  So I’ll
leave it to him and that conversation as the negotiat- — negotiations
are occurring.

Q    I wanted to ask about New York City declaring a public health
emergency as it relates to monkeypox over the weekend.  Does the
administration generally support local municipalities taking this kind
of action as they see fit — that these are their own decisions to make?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — we see that as their own decisions to make. 
Clearly, it’s a local jurisdiction.  It’s for them to — to figure out
what’s going on in their own community.  They know best of what’s
happening on the ground, so we leave that to them. 

I do want to — I do want to add some — because we do have some news on
the vaccinations that I’ve mentioned — the Jynneos vaccination that were
— that was announced last week on Thursday.  737,000 vaccines are out. 
As I’m speaking in front of you right now, they’re being shipped to
areas that really need — to areas that really need them.

And so, if you think about the 707- — seven- — seven-seven- — 737 thous-
— 737,000 and the 300,000-plus that we have put out, that puts 1.1
million doses that’s out in the United States.  And so, that matters. 
It’s very important as we’re trying to really have a aggressive approach
to dealing with monkeypox. 

On testing — and I don’t know if folks had this, but we are doing
testing; about 80,000 tests per week.  And that’s another important,
significant way of making sure that people are getting tested so they
know if they have monkeypox or not.

And lastly, and I’ve talked about this from here already, which is the
education, which is the outreach, educating public health officials and
activists out there — making sure that they know exactly what to look
for and what the treatment is.  And so that, as well, continues.

Q    And do you have any insight on the President’s own thinking right
now on the possibility of declaring a national public emergency on
this?  I know he’ll obviously be advised by folks around him, including
Secretary Becerra.  But what does he think?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So when it comes to a public health emergency, that is
a decision that — that is made by Secretary Becerra; that is not made by
the President. 

But, as you know, we are considering every policy option to help end
this outbreak.  That is urgent, and that is important to us.  But again,
that is up to Secretary Beccera to make that decision.

Q    Any general timeline (inaudible)?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I would — I would refer you to HHS on a specific
timeline.

Q    Karine?  Karine?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.  I’m going to go over here.  Go ahead,
Franco.  I know I didn’t call on you before.

Q    Thanks so much.  I’m just curious if there’s any concern about the
President’s rebound case — concern that that could set back any efforts
to get people to take or for Paxlovid to be prescribed for severe cases.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Absolutely not.  The way we see it is Paxlovid has
over a 90 percent chance of preventing severe illness if it’s taken
early.  And, you know, as we saw, the President had very mild symptoms
because of Paxlovid, because he was fully vaccinated, because he was
double boosted.  And so, we — we anticipated that.  We had said there
would be a minimal chance of him having a relapse. 

And so, you know, again, you know, the relapse truly is small, and the
protection of Paxlovid easily outweighs that, as we see it. 

And so, again, you know, we encourage Americans out there who haven’t
fully get gotten vaccinated to do that, who haven’t been boosted to go
ahead and get their booster. 

The treatment that the President received is the same treatment that
others could receive as well.  And that is because of the work that this
administration, that this President has done from day one walking into
the White House.

Q    Karine, what about Russia banning the Jewish Agency?

Q    Also, if I could ask — I know, you’re a little tired of asking
about 20- — or answering questions about 2024 —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, I’m never tired.  Never tired. 

Q    — and President Biden running — whether he will run.  I was just —
you know, with former President Trump talking about submitting his
paperwork potentially before the midterms, why — when will President
Biden file his paperwork?  And wouldn’t that help kind of nip some of
these questions in the bud?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, the President has said that he intends to
run.  He’s said that multiple times.  So, there’s that.  I’ll put that
out there.

But again, we are — we have some — you know, we have some work to do in
the next couple of days and weeks that we’re going to focus on.  We’re
not going to be distracted by what’s happening with the former
President.  That is not our focus.

Our focus right now is — you know, as we’re talking about the Inflation
Reduction Act, which is — which is historic, as I just laid out, which
is incredibly important; as we talk about lowering cost — prescription
drugs for our seniors; as we’re talking about getting some of that
energy — lowering costs on energy for families who are sitting around
their kitchen table trying to figure out how are they going to pay for
whatever item, that — that is incredibly important to them.  So, this is
what this is going to do.  And so, we’re going to continue to talk about
that.

We see the Inflation Reduction Act as a down payment, as a promise that
we — the President has made.  And so we’re going to continue to make
sure we get that over the fin- — the finish line.

Q    Karine?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.

Q    Just a question about the President’s COVID case and guidelines. 
You outlined that he’ll be in isolation for five days.  How does that
relate to potential travel?  I know that even if you test negative,
there are CDC guidelines that discourage you from traveling for a
certain period of time.  Does that clock start back at zero with the
rebound case?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, the travel is a little bit different because there
— there are no CDC recommendations on — regarding travel for a rebound. 
So that does not exist in this — for rebound cases.

So, as far as travel, I just don’t have anything to share with — for you
right now.  But right now, CDC doesn’t have any recommendations for a
rebound on cases.

Q    So is the White House operating under the assumption that when and
if the President tests negative, then he will both be cleared to return
to work in the Oval Office and travel wherever?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So we’re going to do the — I just mentioned the
isolation, five days.  He’s — clearly, he’s going to be testing
regularly.

One of the reasons — right? — one of the reasons that we were able to
share with you that he tested positive is because we upped his testing
cadence because of his unique role.  Right? As President, we wanted to
make sure that we were keeping an eye on that, and so that’s why we were
able to share that testing — — his — his test — his — him testing
positive on Saturday.  So, we’ll continue to do that.

But as far as travel, there’s just no CDC recommendation. Once we have
more, we will let you know.

Q    Right.  But, so I’m just wondering: Is the White House plan that,
as soon as he tests negative, he can — he can return to all activities,
there’s no restrictions?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  That — that is our hope.  That is our expectation. 
But we are going to follow, as I just mentioned, CDC guidance as it
relates to isolation.

Q    And just one last one on the President’s schedule. Last week, when
before he tested negative, you guys gave us a more fulsome readout of
what he was doing —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — what meetings he had.  We’ve received nothing today.  Can you
give us some sort of — is he on the phone with lawmakers, his economic
team, his COVID team?  What is the President doing?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  Again, the day is young.  (Laughs.)  But — so,
we — I know on Friday we provided his meetings, he — which included
dealing with the awful flooding in Kentucky and helping provide federal
resources, working with Governor Beshear and Senator McConnell, speaking
with members of Congress and meeting with his senior staff.

He will be doing a lot of that work virtually, as we have done in the
past.  And so, I mean, the work doesn’t stop.  He’ll just continue to do
that.

Q    But no details on what he’s done today so far?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, he’ll be meeting with senior staff for sure. 
That is something that’s pretty regular on his schedule.  So I can, for
sure, share that with you.  If there’s anything else to read out, we
will be — we will share — we’ll share that with you.

Q    Afghanistan please?

Q    Russia?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  Is President Biden thinking about pulling his
support for the Inflation Reduction Act?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No.

Q    Because he promised it wasn’t going to make — that it wasn’t going
to raise taxes on anybody making less than $400,000 a year, but the
Joint Committee on Taxation says that is not true.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, that is incorrect.

Q    So, the Joint Committee on Taxation, which you guys heralded as an
effective body when you were selling the infrastructure package, is not
to be trusted here?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I said it is not correct because — I will give you why
it’s not correct: because it is incomplete.

The JCT report that we’re currently seeing is incomplete because it
omits the actual benefits that Americans would receive when it comes to
prescription drugs, when it comes to lowering energy costs, like utility
bills.  It does not include that. 

And we have some experts — you don’t have to trust me; we have experts
that say the exact same.  Kimberly — Kimberly Clausing, from UCLA: “Many
key factors are left out in these tables, including, importantly, the
effect of deficit reduction, the positive effects of the spending on
clean energy, and the benefits from low\[er\] drug prices.”

And I just stated — Seth Hanlon, Center for American Progress:
“Republicans don’t mention that JCT analysis includes an imputation of
corporate <s>taxes</s> \[tax increases\] — i.e. the 15% minimum on
corporations with <s>less than</s> \[more than\] $1 billion of profits —
to income groups…but DOES NOT include the major provisions that benefit
people, including the tax cuts and \[Rx\] drug savings” — prescription
drug savings, to be specific.

Q    So, Penn Wharton, where the President used to — University of
Pennsylvania — he used to be a professor there.  The Penn Wharton Budget
Model says that this Inflation Reduction Act is actually going to
increase inflation in 2024.  Does the President worry about that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, we agree with Senator Manchin — you heard him a
couple of times yesterday — and disagree with Penn Wharton, as a — as do
a number of qualified experts, which I’m happy to read out.

But I — you know, I do want to say that it is quite ironic that
congressional Republicans are complaining or have a false — a false
outrage on — on this Inflation Reduction Act that is actually going to
do something and help the American people lower cost, when — you know,
when they have offered really nothing to do that.

What they have offered is to increase taxes on Americans making less
than $100,000 a year.  And what they have introduced is actually
sunsetting Medicare and sunsetting also Social Security after five
years.  And that’s how they want to deal with — how to help the American
people.

We are talking about doing the complete — absolute complete opposite.

Q    And just one more.  It’s been three days now since a Chinese
official publicly threatened to murder Speaker Pelosi. Where is the
President coming out to respond, to at the very least say, “Don’t do
that”?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, first, we’ve talked — Kirby was just here
talking about how — I have not seen those reports.  So I’m just going to
say —

Q    When they said that they were going to maybe shoot down her plane. 
Or that they would —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:   Oh.

Q    — it would be within their rights to shoot down the plane.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  All right.  Well, we have talked about that. 
We have said that there’s no need for this type of saber-rattling; it is
unnecessary.  The President has been very clear: There’s been no change
in the One China policy.  We continue to support the Taiwan Relations
Act.

What we are seeing from — from — you know, what we’re talking about
right now — and to be clear, the Speaker has not confirmed, as you heard
from my colleague just moments ago, that she is going to Taiwan.  It has
not been confirmed. 

And, you know, the history of this — of congressional members going to
Taiwan is not uncommon.  It is something that has happened in the past. 

And — and so, again, nothing has changed.  And the President has made
that very, very clear.

Go ahead, Steven.

Q    Just two more bits of pushback on the Inflation Reduction Act —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, sure.

Q    — that Pharma is — Pharma is running ads in this town and probably
others that says that the payfor when it comes to Medicare and allowing
Medicare to negotiate some prescription drugs will result in money
coming out of the Medicare system and research and development perhaps
being crimped.

There’s also the National Association of Manufacturers, which says that
the payfor — the 15 percent minimum corporate tax — is essentially a tax
on domestic manufacturing because it would, in some ways, target the
accelerated depreciation that many factory owners use to pay for
equipment.

Does the President — is the President confident that the — if passed and
enacted, the bill will neither affect the Medicare program and the way
that drugs are developed in this country, or his goals to increase
domestic manufacturing?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, I’ll say this: There are 55 companies —
corporations in this country who make tens of billions of dollars who
are paying zero — who are paying zero dollars when it comes to taxes. 
So this bill is going to fix that tax loophole and make the tax code
fairer.  And that matters. 

And when you think about what that’s going to do, you think about that
$300 billion that’s going to go towards deficit — making sure that we
continue to bring down the deficit — $1.7 trillion, we saw from last
year, add another $300 billion — that is going to save costs.  That’s
going to save costs for the American people.  And that is so critical,
so important, especially as we’re talking about inflation and high costs
right now. 

And so as it relates to the Medicare, just want to just say, like, the
AARP, who you all know — an advocacy group for seniors — has endorsed
this piece of — piece of legislation.

While the limit of costs of medicines and cap out-of-pocket expenses to
$2,000 a year for people on Medicare, it will limit that, which is so
important for many seniors.  This will also strengthen Medicare by
reducing its expenses, which saves tax — taxpayers money and helps fight
inflation. 

And so that is really important.  These are the things — if you ask a
family and you say to them, “What are some of the costs that you want us
to bring down?  What are the things that really hit your pocketbook?,”
they will say prescription drugs.  Many will say one of those things are
prescription drugs. 

And so this is an historic investment that’s going to make — that’s
going to just be a game changer for families.  That is incredibly
important.  And that’s what the President cares about, and that’s how
the President wants to continue to support this legislation.

Q    Karine, just one question about the President’s COVID case.  Given
the importance of getting him back on a regular schedule, was there any
discussion here about taking any additional steps to try to help them
clear the virus faster — putting him back on Paxlovid, giving him more
fluids, letting him sleep more, anything like that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have anything more than what the — what his
physician shared today and also the last couple of days to all of you. 

How he’s feeling?  He’s feeling very fine.  He’s doing great.  We heard
from him directly say that.  And we expected — again, we expected with
Paxlovid to be a relapse.  It’s not unusual; it’s common.  We shared
that with all of you the last couple of days during his — during his
bout with COVID.

And so, again, this is not unusual.  He’s feeling fine.  We will
continue to share an update from his physician.  You’ll get one
tomorrow.  And — and so we’re just going to continue with what the
doctor lays out and takes his — take his word for it.

Q    When will the President sign the CHIPS bill?  Is that something
that he’ll do while he’s isolating?  Is that something he’s going to do
when he can resume travel?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, we will have something on that very, very soon. 

Q    Okay.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Don’t have anything for you at this time.  We will
have something on that for you very soon.

Q    Okay.  Just one more question.  Has the U.S. received an official
answer yet from Russia on its offer of a prisoner swap? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, we have — we’ve talked about this the last couple
of days.  Look, as you know, we want to see Brittney Griner home.  We
want to see Paul Whelan home.  They are wrongfully detained. 

We have been very clear about that.  We put forward a substantial
offer.  And we — you know, we want to have a good-faith conversation on
that.  We want to make sure that we get this done as soon as possible. 

What we have heard, as you’ve heard from my colleagues, is in bad
faith.  It is — and so, you know, is — it’s not a serious — there was a
counteroffer that was made, which we don’t see it as a serious
counteroffer. 

Clearly, not going to negotiate from here.  I’m not going to get into
any specific details. 

But as you can see from the substantial offer, as you can hear from
Secretary Blinken, and as you’ve heard from this President: We are
taking this very seriously.  And this is top of mind for this President,
and we want to see them come home.

Go ahead.

Q    One more on the President’s case.  You had referred to the
physician letter that says “no reemergence of symptoms,” but you also
said “lingering symptoms.”  So, help us square that so we understand.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, well, “no reoccurring symptoms,” meaning, like,
if you look at his original letter, there’s nothing — there’s nothing
severe.  Right?  Because he feels fine.  Right?  He feels — he feels
good. 

But as we know, when all of us have had COVID, you do have a little — a
little bit of a lingering cough, right?  You do have a little bit of —
maybe a lingering sniffles.  That’s not uncommon to have.  And so that’s
what we are talking about. 

Q    So he is not 100 percent symptom free.  He just didn’t have like a
fever return or something like that?  Is that fair?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, he never had a —

Q    I don’t want to —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I want to be careful because we were — we went into
this, about if he had a fever or not; he never had a fever.  So I want
to be really clear.

Q    Okay.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  His — it was elevated, but it was never a fever. 

Q    And I don’t want to put something in that wasn’t —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  But remember, there were — we had talked about a
little fatigue.  We had talked about aches, you know, that he was tak- —
he was — there was a little bit of discomfort. 

So that has not — that has not occurred.  But all of us have had COVID
before, right?  We’ve had — well, not all of us — many of us.  I don’t
want to call everybody out.  I could speak for myself.  And there are
some — you know, you still have a dry cough.  You still have, you know,
a little sniffles that — that lasts for a little bit longer. 

Q    And you emphasized —

Q    And are you saying that “you”?  Are you saying “he”?

Q    Are you saying “he” or “you”?

Q    Yeah, I’m trying to get a sense of —

Q    You are using a —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I am saying that all of us have had COVID — many of us
have had COVID before, and they tend to be lingering symptoms.  And
that’s what I’m talking about.

Q    So the President is still experiencing some things related to his
COVID course of illness?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Right.  And also, as we know — you all have known him
for some time and covered him — he tends to have a dry cough.  That is
not unusual.  So that is what I’m talking about.  He tends to have a dry
cough, which you all have heard before.  So I —

Q    And there’s —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — just want to be clear on that, too.

Q    There’s been emphasis on: He’s working, he’s calling, and so
forth.  But to my knowledge, I don’t believe you’ve talked about him
getting extra rest or taking time away from work.  Has he also had
blocks of time where he’s not doing anything so that he can rest?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  What I can tell you is that he has been working
eight-plus hours a day.  That is a schedule that he continues to keep. 
Instead of doing it in the Oval Office, he’s doing in the White House
Residence. 

Q    Thanks, Karine.  The President suggested in Saudi Arabia that there
could be an announcement on oil production coming.  With OPEC meeting
this week, is the White House expecting an increase in oil production to
be announced?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I will leave that to OPEC Plus.  We are not a member
of OPEC Plus, as you know, and so I would leave them to answer that —
answer whatever they’re going to come — coming out of that meeting this
week.

Q    But the President has received — received no indication.  And he
did make some strong comments when he was in Saudi Arabia about
potential good news and consumers feeling relief?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Again, I leave that to OPEC — OPEC Plus.

Q    And also some clarification on how we’re counting the President’s
days, in terms of when he’ll be out of isolation.  Was Saturday day zero
or Saturday day one?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So I believe we shared that on — on — on Saturday.  So
what we shared is basically what it is. 

Q    Okay.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay, I’ll take one more question. 

Q    Afghanistan, please?

Q    Karine, one more follow-up?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’ll take one more question.  I’m trying —

You — you right here. 

Q    Yeah —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  And I’ve called on you before.  I’m — I want to call
on her.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  Voters in Kansas tomorrow will be the first in the
country since the Supreme Court overturned Roe v.  Wade to have the
opportunity to vote on an abortion-related ballot measure.  Is the White
House seeing this as a vote that could have broader political
significance heading into the midterms?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So if it passes, tomorrow’s vote in Kansas could lead
to another state eliminating the right to choose and eviscerating access
to healthcare.  Republican governors and state legislators are imposing
extreme laws banning a woman’s right to choose — many don’t allow
exceptions even for rape or incest.  And congressional Republicans are
calling for a national ban on abortion. 

So President Biden has made this very, very clear that the only way to
secure a woman’s rights to choose is for Congress to restore the
protections of Roe as federal law.  So the majority of Americans, we —
they support that as a woman’s right to choose.  And again, Congress
must act, as the President has said many times.  And it is also — the
American people need to make sure that their voices are heard. 

All right.  Thanks, everybody.  I’ll see you tomorrow.

 END  2:56 P.M. EDT
