---
date: '2024-09-06'
modified_time: 2024-09-06 15:17:01-04:00
published_time: 2024-09-06 17:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/09/06/president-biden-announces-key-appointments-to-boards-and-commissions-39/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Announces Key Appointments to Boards and\_Commissions"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Joe Biden announced his intent to appoint
the following individuals to serve in key roles:

-   Troy Coronado, to be a Member of the Board of Visitors to the U.S.
    Military Academy
-   Manuel A. Chinea, to be a Member of the Community Development
    Advisory Board
-   Janie Simms Hipp, to be a Member of the Community Development
    Advisory Board
-   Mark Alan Kaufman, to be a Member of the Community Development
    Advisory Board
-   Susan Chapman Plumb, to be a Member of the Community Development
    Advisory Board
-   Damon Y. Smith, to be a Member of the Council of the Administrative
    Conference of the United States
-   Justin Driver, to be a Member of the Permanent Committee for the
    Oliver Wendell Holmes Devise
-   Kamana‘opono M. Crabbe, to be a Commissioner of the President’s
    Advisory Commission on Asian Americans, Native Hawaiians, and
    Pacific Islanders
-   Sameera Fazili, to be a Commissioner of the President’s Advisory
    Commission on Asian Americans, Native Hawaiians, and Pacific
    Islanders
-   Krystal Ka‘ai, to be a Commissioner of the President’s Advisory
    Commission on Asian Americans, Native Hawaiians, and Pacific
    Islanders
-   Vida Lin, to be a Commissioner of the President’s Advisory
    Commission on Asian Americans, Native Hawaiians, and Pacific
    Islanders
-   Emmanuel Jenkins, to be a Member of the President’s Committee for
    People with Intellectual Disabilities
-   Charles P. Riley, to be a Member of the Route 66 Centennial
    Commission

Additionally, President Biden announced his intent to appoint the
following individuals to serve as members of boards and commissions
that, based on statute or longstanding practice, include candidates
recommended by Congressional Republican leadership.

-   Edgar Gluck, to be a Member of the Commission for the Preservation
    of America’s Heritage Abroad
-   Andrew G. Biggs, to be a Member of the Financial Oversight and
    Management Board for Puerto Rico
-   Cameron McKenzie, to be a Member of the Financial Oversight and
    Management Board for Puerto Rico
-   John Earl Nixon, to be a Member of the Financial Oversight and
    Management Board for Puerto Rico

**<u>The Board of Visitors to the U.S. Military Academy</u>**

The Board of Visitors to the U.S. Military Academy provides independent
advice and recommendations to the President on matters related to
morale, discipline, curriculum, instruction, physical equipment, fiscal
affairs, academic methods, and any other matters relating to the Academy
that the Board decides to consider. The Board consists of six members
appointed by the President for terms of three years.

**Troy Coronado, to be a Member of the Board of Visitors to the U.S.
Military Academy**

Troy Coronado, rising from the rank of private to colonel, has 30 years
of distinguished military service in the U.S. Army. In 1987, he enlisted
in the Infantry at Fort Benning, Georgia. While working as a drill
corporal, he was selected to attend the Officer Candidate School, and
upon graduation, was commissioned a second lieutenant in the Armor
Branch. His first assignment was platoon leader in Schweinfurt, Germany.

In 2006, Coronado completed a combat tour in Afghanistan, working as an
embedded team trainer, as part of Operation Enduring Freedom. Following
his return to the U.S., his assignments included the Pentagon, Fort
Knox, Kentucky, and the National Guard Bureau Joint Staff. In 2014, he
returned to Afghanistan as the Joint Command Inspector General. From
there he was assigned to the Warrior Transition Brigade at the Walter
Reed National Military Medical Center in Maryland until his retirement
in 2017.

Coronado’s military awards include the Legion of Merit, Bronze Star
Medal, Defense Meritorious Service Medal, Joint Service Commendation,
Army Commendation, Army Achievement, Good Conduct Medal, National
Defense Service Medal, Global War on Terrorism Medal, Armed Forces
Reserve Medal, NATO Medal, and the Combat Action Badge. He is a member
of the Army Infantry Officer Candidate School Hall of Fame and a
recipient of the American Latino Veterans Association Valor Award.
Coronado and his wife, Lisa, have been married for 35 years and have
three daughters and two grandchildren. He now lives back in his hometown
of San Antonio, Texas.

**<u>Community Development Advisory Board, Department of the
Treasury</u>** 

The Community Development Advisory Board serves to advise the Community
Development Financial Institutions (CDFI) Fund within the Department of
the Treasury. The Community Development Advisory Board’s mission is to
promote access to capital to underserved communities. The CDFI Fund, in
partnership with the Board, partners with and invests in local lenders
and financial service providers around the country. Since inception, the
CDFI Fund has awarded more than $5.2 billion dollars to its partners. 

**Manuel A. Chinea, to be a Member of the Community Development Advisory
Board** 

Manuel Chinea is the Chief Operating Officer of Popular Bank, a leading
financial institution with operations in Puerto Rico, the mainland U.S.
and the Virgin Islands. Prior to joining Popular Bank, Chinea served as
Executive Vice President and Chief for Retail Operations at Certus
Bank. For over two decades, Chinea has been an active member and officer
of several marketing, credit, treasury management and nonprofit
organizations. Chinea has been an active leader in the treasury
management and nonprofit space, as he currently serves as a board
member of Junior Achievement of New York and is a current Treasurer and
former board Chair of the Hispanic Federation. Chinea holds a B.S. in
finance from the University of Maryland’s Robert H. Smith School of
Business and an MBA from the University of Michigan’s Stephen M.
Ross School of Business.  

**Janie Simms Hipp, to be a Member of the Community Development Advisory
Board** 

Janie Hipp is the President and CEO of Native Agriculture Financial
Services, a lending institution focused on economic development for
tribal communities. Prior to this, Hipp was nominated by President Biden
and confirmed by the Senate to serve as the General Counsel of the
Department of Agriculture. She is the first enrolled tribal citizen to
hold that role, as a member of the Chickasaw Nation. Hipp has worked in
agricultural law and economic development for nearly 40 years, including
serving as the CEO of the Native American Agriculture Fund and as a
senior advisor to USDA Secretary Tom Vilsack and Director of the USDA
Office of Tribal Relations. Hipp holds a Bachelor of Arts degree in
social work from the University of Oklahoma, a J.D. from Oklahoma City
University’s School of Law and a LLM in agricultural law from the
University of Arkansas School of Law. 

**Mark Alan Kaufman, to be a Member of the Community Development
Advisory Board** 

Mark Kaufman is the President of the Neighborhood Impact Investment
Fund, a community development financial institution dedicated to
investing in inclusive growth for historically undercapitalized areas of
Baltimore, MD. Kaufman has nearly 40 years of experience in government
and the private sector working on community finance and development. His
public service includes his tenure as Counselor to Treasury Deputy
Secretary Sarah Bloom Raskin in the Obama-Biden Administration and as
Commissioner of the Maryland Division of Financial Regulation. In the
private sector, he served as the President of City First Bank, a
DC-based community development financial institution, and as Managing
Director of Investment Banking at CIBC World Markets. Kaufman holds a
B.A. in Political Science and Economics from Brown University, as well
as a MPA and MBA from Columbia University. 

**Susan Chapman Plumb, to be a Member of the Community Development
Advisory Board** 

Susan Chapman Plumb is the CEO and board chair of Local Bank and is a
board member of the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City. Local Bank,
previously known as the Bank of Cherokee County, was one of the first
Native-owned CDFIs certified by the Treasury Department. Plumb began her
career as an attorney, and has since worked in banking in Cherokee
County for the last 20 years. Plumb is active in her community, serving
on the boards of the Tahlequah Hospital Foundation and the Oklahoma Hall
of Fame. She holds a B.A. in journalism from the University of Oklahoma
and a J.D. from the University of Tulsa.  

**<u>Council of the Administrative Conference of the United States</u>**

The Administrative Conference of the United States (ACUS) is an
independent federal agency charged with convening expert representatives
from the public and private sectors to recommend improvements to
administrative process and procedure. ACUS initiatives promote
efficiency, participation, and fairness in the promulgation of federal
regulations and in the administration of federal programs. The 10-member
ACUS Council is composed of government officials and private citizens.

**Damon Y. Smith, to be a Member of the Council of the Administrative
Conference of the United States**

Damon Y. Smith serves as the General Counsel at the U.S. Department of
Housing and Urban Development (HUD). As General Counsel, Smith is
responsible for leading the agency’s litigation and enforcement efforts,
serving as the Designated Agency Ethics Official, and assisting the
Secretary in the development of HUD programs and policies. Smith joined
the Biden-Harris Administration as Principal Deputy General Counsel.
Prior to that, he was Senior Director of Advocacy and Counsel at the
Credit Union National Association and a Partner at Jenner and Block LLP
in Washington, D.C. where he provided counsel to companies facing
complex compliance, government regulation, and enforcement matters.

Smith previously served as Principal Deputy and Acting General Counsel
at HUD during the Obama-Biden Administration. Before his government
service, he taught property and local government law as an Associate
Professor at Rutgers-Camden Law School and a Visiting Professor at the
American University Washington College of Law. He began his legal career
as a real estate Associate at Arnold & Porter in Washington, D.C. and
worked prior to law school as an urban planner in East St. Louis,
Illinois and St. Louis, Missouri. Smith is a graduate of Harvard Law
School and holds a B.A. in English and a master’s degree in urban
planning from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign.

**<u>Permanent Committee for the Oliver Wendell Holmes Devise</u>**

The Permanent Committee for the Oliver Wendell Holmes Devise was
established by Congress in 1955 after the late Associate Justice of the
Supreme Court Oliver Wendell Holmes Jr. bequeathed a portion of his
estate to the United States in 1935. Congress used the gift to establish
the Committee, which is charged with documenting and disseminating the
history of the United States Supreme Court. The Committee’s principal
purpose is to continue to publish the multi-volume work documenting the
history of the Court. The Committee is composed of the Librarian of
Congress and four additional members appointed by the President.

**Justin Driver, to be a Member of the Permanent Committee for the
Oliver Wendell Holmes Devise**

Justin Driver is the Robert R. Slaughter Professor of Law at Yale Law
School, where he primarily teaches and writes in the fields of
constitutional law, constitutional theory, and education law. He is the
author of *The Schoolhouse Gate: Public Education, the Supreme Court,
and the Battle for the American Mind*, which was selected as
a *Washington Post* Notable Book of the Year and an Editors’ Choice
of *The New York Times Book Review*. *The Schoolhouse Gate* also
received the Steven S. Goldberg Award for Distinguished Scholarship in
Education Law, and was a finalist for the American Bar Association’s
Silver Gavel Award and Phi Beta Kappa’s Ralph Waldo Emerson Book Award.
A recipient of the American Society for Legal History’s William Nelson
Cromwell Article Prize, Driver is an elected member of the American Law
Institute and of the American Academy of Arts & Sciences. In 2021,
President Biden appointed Driver to serve on the Presidential Commission
on the Supreme Court of the United States. He is a graduate of Brown,
Oxford, Duke, and Harvard Law School. After graduating from Harvard,
Driver clerked for Justice Sandra Day O’Connor (Ret.) and Justice
Stephen Breyer (Ret.).

**<u>President’s Advisory Commission on Asian Americans, Native
Hawaiians, and Pacific Islanders</u>**

The President’s Advisory Commission on Asian Americans, Native
Hawaiians, and Pacific Islanders advises the President on ways the
public, private, and non-profit sectors can work together to advance
equity and opportunity for every Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and
Pacific Islander (AANHPI) community. The Commission is also charged with
advising the President on policies to address anti-Asian xenophobia and
violence, ways to build capacity in AANHPI communities through federal
grantmaking, and policies to address the intersectional barriers that
AANHPI women, LGBTQ+ people, and people with disabilities face. The
Commission includes civic leaders from across the country and reflects
the rich diversity of AANHPI communities across the United States. The
Commission consists of 25 members appointed by the President.

**Kamana‘opono M. Crabbe, to be a Commissioner of the President’s
Advisory Commission on Asian Americans, Native Hawaiians, and Pacific
Islanders**

Dr. Kamana‘opono M. Crabbe serves as a seasoned spokesperson and
representative for the Native Hawaiian community on Native Hawaiian
rights, social inequities, community health and resilience, and current
social, cultural, educational, economic, and political issues affecting
Native Hawaiians, Hawai‘i, and the Pacific. He sits on several
high-level policy and governing boards, including the Hawai‘i Executive
Collaborative Leadership Committee and the Asian American Foundation
Advisory Council.

In 2010, he joined the Office of Hawaiian Affairs (OHA) as its Research
Director, and was appointed as Chief Executive Officer in March 2012. As
OHA’s *Ka Pouhana*, the main post of the *hale*, he grounded the
organization in *Kūkulu Hou* – his vision to reestablish and rebuild the
*mana* of *kānaka maoli,* Native Hawaiians. He later served as the Ka
Pouhana-CEO for the Kohala Institute at ‘Iole, where he led the
organization on a new vision to “be a world leader in sustainable
thinking through a model 21st century ahupua‘a, where land is chief, and
man is steward.”

Currently, Crabbe serves as the Executive Counselor for the Asian
Pacific Islander Health Forum, a national health policy advocacy
organization based out of Washington, D.C. and San Francisco,
California. He also serves as a Senior Executive for the Hawai‘i
Executive Collaborative and is the Project Lead-Executive for the
Rediscovering Hawai‘i’s Soul initiative.

Crabbe has received numerous cultural distinctions and formal awards
recognizing his executive leadership and accomplishments. He serves his
community as a *ho‘oponopono* practitioner, skilled chanter and orator,
and *‘aha ‘awa* ceremony and protocol expert. In 2006, he established
the non-profit organization, ‘Aha Kāne: Foundation for the Advancement
of Native Hawaiian Males. He earned his doctorate in clinical psychology
from the University of Hawai‘i at Mānoa and served countless families,
youth, and communities as a licensed clinical psychologist for over 12
years.

**Sameera Fazili,** **to be a Commissioner of the President’s Advisory
Commission on Asian Americans, Native Hawaiians, and Pacific Islanders**

Sameera Fazili is an economic policy expert with over 20 years of
leadership experience across the public, private, and non-profit
sectors. She previously served as Deputy Assistant to President Biden
and Deputy Director of the White House’s National Economic Council. In
that role, she led the Administration’s work on industrial policy,
supply chains, and regional economic development, including the response
to numerous supply chain crises. She currently runs her own advisory
business, focused on clean energy transition, global supply chain
resilience, and economic equity issues, and is a senior fellow in
industrial policy and trade at the Roosevelt Institute. She serves on
the boards of Asian Americans Advancing Justice Atlanta, the Paideia
School, and the Washington Center for Equitable Growth, and was
previously a board member with the Inner-City Muslim Action Network,
helping launch their Atlanta, Georgia office. Her career has included
work at the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, the U.S. Department of the
Treasury, and Yale Law School, where she helped launch Connecticut’s
first community development bank. A graduate of Yale Law School and
Harvard College, she lives in Atlanta, Georgia.

**Krystal Ka‘ai, to be a Commissioner of the President’s Advisory
Commission on Asian Americans, Native Hawaiians, and Pacific Islanders**

Krystal Ka‘ai is a dedicated public servant with over 14 years of
experience working to advance equity for underserved communities. In
2021, she was appointed by President Biden as the first Native Hawaiian
in history to serve as the Executive Director of the White House
Initiative and the President’s Advisory Commission on Asian Americans,
Native Hawaiians, and Pacific Islanders. In this role, she oversees the
Biden-Harris Administration’s whole-of-government strategy to advance
equity, justice, and opportunity for Asian American, Native Hawaiian,
and Pacific Islander (AA and NHPI) communities, including coordinating
interagency policy development and external outreach to local, state,
and federal stakeholders across the country. Prior to joining the
Administration, she served as the Executive Director of the
Congressional Asian Pacific American Caucus (CAPAC), a bicameral caucus
comprised of over 80 Members of Congress who advocate for the needs and
concerns of AA and NHPI communities at the federal level. Her public
service career also includes prior roles with the U.S. Senate Committee
on Indian Affairs, the State of Hawai‘i Office of Hawaiian Affairs, and
the National Japanese American Memorial Foundation.

**Vida Lin,** **to be a Commissioner of the President’s Advisory
Commission on Asian Americans, Native Hawaiians, and Pacific Islanders**

Vida Lin has dedicated 30 years to empowering Nevada’s Asian American,
Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander community by taking decisive
action where she saw the greatest need. As the Founder and President of
the Asian Community Development Council, Lin transformed her vision into
reality by establishing Nevada’s first Asian food pantry, hosting
vaccination clinics, offering free citizenship assistance, and opening
the Healthy Asians and Pacific Islanders (HAPI) Medical Center in Las
Vegas, Nevada.

Lin’s journey began in San Francisco, California where she ran a small
family business and later transitioned to the insurance industry to
protect families after a personal tragedy. During her successful 20-year
career as an insurance broker, Lin’s passion for helping the underserved
drove her to advise and serve as a board member for numerous charities
and causes. Her unwavering commitment to civic engagement and advocacy
was recognized with the Bank of America “Neighborhood Builders: Racial
Equality Award” in 2022, and the City of Las Vegas honored her with
“Vida Lin Day” on January 18, 2023. Lin’s legacy is defined by her
relentless pursuit of uplifting and empowering the next generation of
leaders.

**<u>President’s Committee for People with Intellectual
Disabilities</u>**

The President’s Committee on People with Intellectual Disabilities
serves as a federal advisor to the President and the Secretary of Health
and Human Services on matters relating to persons with intellectual
disabilities. The Committee has 21 members who serve two-year terms.
Individuals appointed to this Committee reflect the diversity of America
and include people with intellectual disabilities and their family
members, researchers, service providers and other professionals,
community and business representatives, and systems advocates.

**Emmanuel Jenkins, to be a Member of the President’s Committee for
People with Intellectual Disabilities**

Emmanuel Jenkins, the driving force behind the non-profit We Stand 4
Something, is a beacon of support for individuals with disabilities and
their families, spreading positivity and hope. In Delaware, he serves as
the Community Relations Officer for the Delaware Developmental
Disabilities Council and serves as the Chair of the Delaware Employment
First Oversight Commission and Vice Chair of the Delaware Developmental
Disabilities Services Advisory Committee. An alumnus of the Partners in
Policymaking program since 2014, Jenkins’ unwavering dedication to
advocacy is further evidenced by his recent roles on the Advisory
Committee for the Self-Advocacy Resource and Technical Assistance Center
and as Chair of the National Association of Councils on Developmental
Disabilities (NACDD) Self-Advocacy Committee. He also serves on the
NACDD Board and chairs its communications working group. In academia,
Jenkins is a distinguished Leadership Education in Neurodevelopmental
and Related Disabilities (LEND) Faculty Member at the University of
Delaware. Jenkins has been married since 2009 and is father to an
18-year-old. With over two decades as a motivational speaker, Emmanuel
envisions a future where his tireless advocacy can reach new heights,
embodying resilience, determination, and the belief in standing for
something greater.

**<u>Route 66 Centennial Commission</u>**

The Route 66 Centennial Commission was established by Congress in 2020
to study and make recommendations on activities that would be fitting
and proper to celebrate the centennial anniversary of the Mother Road of
the United States, Route 66, in 2026. The Commission studies activities
including potential ceremonies and celebrations, the production and
publication of media or other materials, and the issuance of
commemorative items.

**Charles P. Riley, to be a Member of the Route 66 Centennial
Commission**

Charles P. Riley is a citizen of the Pueblo of Acoma, New Mexico and has
a made public service his career. He served the Pueblo as a Tribal
Council member for 13 years and as a Tribal Sheriff for one year. Riley
holds a Bachelor’s Degree in Civil Engineering from the University of
New Mexico and worked for private engineering and surveying firms for 10
years, before joining the Bureau of Indian Affairs. At the Bureau of
Indian Affairs, he held the positions of Regional Road Engineer,
Designated Engineer, and Mescalero Agency Superintendent. Riley ended
his government career working for the Bureau of Indian Education. He
retired from public service after 25 years and is currently working for
the Pueblo as the Director of Community Development.

As the Director of Community Development, Riley oversees the planning,
design, and construction of roads on Pueblo of Acoma lands. His office
has been awarded grants to plan and design 13 miles of roads and three
bridges. His office is currently helping other departments with the
development of a new Education Resource Center and Senior Center
complex. The Pueblo’s future projects include a reservation-wide
pedestrian/bike trail system, and the designation of a Tribal Scenic
Byway that will lead to the historic Acoma village known as “Sky City,”
that will begin and end on historic Route 66.

Riley has been married for 39 years, and has three daughters and four
grandchildren

**<u>Commission for the Preservation of America’s Heritage Abroad</u>**

The Commission for the Preservation of America’s Heritage Abroad was
established in 1985 to ensure that sites important to populations
impacted by Nazism, communism, and the Cold War would be preserved for
future generations. The Commission’s mission is to identify, protect,
and preserve cemeteries, monuments, and historic buildings in Eastern
and Central Europe that are associated with U.S. heritage. The work
recognizes that the population of the United States is mostly comprised
of immigrants and their descendants, and that the United States has an
interest in the preservation of sites in other countries related to the
heritage of these Americans.

**Edgar Gluck, to be a Member of the Commission for the Preservation of
America’s Heritage Abroad**

Rabbi Edgar Gluck was born in Hamburg, Germany on June 14th, 1936. A
Holocaust survivor, he immigrated to the U.S. at the age of two. He
attended the Chasan Sofer Rabbinical Academy and Beth Medrash Elyon
Academy of higher studies and research where he earned an Advanced
Rabbinical Degree of “Rabbi and Judge.” One of his areas of
post-rabbinical specialization has been the identity and dignity of the
dead, and he has worked tirelessly to identify and restore grave sites
and reclaim cemeteries and areas of mass graves worldwide for the last
six decades. Gluck has also been active with the Office of the Chief
Medical Examiner in the city of New York, where he currently holds the
position of Chaplain to the Chief Medical Examiner.

In 1971, he co-founded Hatzoloh, the largest volunteer ambulance corps
in the country. Gluck is Chairman of the in-patient Board of Maimonides
Medical Center, one of the largest metropolitan hospitals in New York
City, and has been appointed as Chief Rabbi of Galicia, Poland. In 1984,
President Ronald Reagan awarded him with a Commendation for his
Exemplary Community Service and he continues to serve the needs of the
community, both in the U.S. and abroad.

**<u>Financial Oversight and Management Board for Puerto Rico</u>**

The Financial Oversight and Management Board for Puerto Rico was created
under the Puerto Rico Oversight, Management and Economic Stability Act
of 2016. The Board consists of seven members appointed by the President
and one ex officio member designated by the Governor of Puerto Rico. The
Board is tasked with working with the people and Government of Puerto
Rico to create the necessary foundation for economic growth and to
restore opportunity to the people of Puerto Rico.

**Andrew G. Biggs, to be a Member of the Financial Oversight and
Management Board for Puerto Rico**

Andrew G. Biggs is a Senior Fellow at the American Enterprise Institute.
Biggs previously was the Principal Deputy Commissioner of the Social
Security Administration and in 2005 served as an Associate Director of
the White House National Economic Council. In 2013, the Society of
Actuaries appointed Biggs Co-Vice Chair of its Blue Ribbon Panel on
Public Pension Funding. In 2016, Biggs was appointed by President Obama
to the Financial Oversight and Management Board for Puerto Rico, to
which he was reappointed by President Trump in 2020. Biggs holds a B.A.
from Queen’s University Belfast in Northern Ireland, an MSc from
Cambridge University and the University of London, and a PhD from the
London School of Economics.

**Cameron McKenzie, to be a Member of the Financial Oversight and
Management Board for Puerto Rico**

Cameron McKenzie is an accomplished investment banker, investor, and
entrepreneur with a strong background in mergers and acquisitions,
capital raises, business valuation, management consulting,
restructuring, and corporate financial advisory services. Over his
career, he has worked on numerous transactions across industries such as
energy, healthcare, and real estate.

After working for the consulting firm of former U.S. Ambassador Hans H.
Hertell, McKenzie founded McKenzie & Associates in 2015. His firm
provides investment banking and corporate advisory services to small and
middle-market companies throughout the Americas. In addition, he is an
investor in several small businesses that collectively employ over 200
people.

McKenzie’s impact extends beyond business; he served as President and
Chairman of the Puerto Rico Chamber of Commerce from 2022 to 2023 and
was appointed Honorary Consul of Japan in Puerto Rico that same year. In
2023, McKenzie became the first Puerto Rican to join the International
Chamber of Commerce executive board in Paris, France. Additionally, he
serves on the board of the Baldwin School of Puerto Rico and as an
executive board member of Grupo 21.

McKenzie holds an MBA and a B.S. from Babson College and numerous
financial certifications and regulatory licenses. Recognized as a leader
in the financial sector, McKenzie has received several accolades,
including being named among the “40 under 40” by the National
Association of Certified Valuators and Analysts in 2019. McKenzie and
his wife, Stephania Gonzalez, are blessed with three children: Annabel,
Leonardo, and Nicholas.

**John Earl Nixon, to be a Member of the Financial Oversight and
Management Board for Puerto Rico**

John Earl Nixon serves as a Senior Vice President at Acentra Health, an
innovative healthcare technology company. In his role, he is focused on
government relations, corporate strategy, and client management.

Nixon was Chief Administrative and Financial Officer of the University
of Utah from 2014 to 2019. He served as Michigan’s Budget Director from
2011 to 2014 in Governor Rick Snyder’s Administration, where he led a
department of 2,700 employees overseeing the state’s $52 billion budget,
and statewide government technology and administrative functions. During
his tenure, Michigan eliminated a perpetual $1.5 billion deficit,
reduced the state’s long-term liabilities by $20 billion, and received a
credit rating upgrade. Nixon is also the former state budget director
for Utah, having served for Governors Jon Huntsman and Gary Herbert. 

He is a Certified Public Accountant and holds a B.S. in Corporate
Finance from Brigham Young University and an MBA with an emphasis in
Information Technology from the University of Utah. Nixon was named
Public Official of the Year in 2012 by *Governing* magazine, which cited
his role in Michigan’s economic turnaround. He was also one of
*Government Technology Magazine*’s Top 25 Doers, Dreamers, and Drivers
in 2012. In 2010, he served as President of the National Association of
State Budget Officers. In 2008, he was named Chief Financial Officer of
the Year for the public sector by *Utah Business Magazine*. He lives in
Bountiful, Utah with his wife, DeAnn. They have six children, two of
whom are married.

\# \# \#
