---
date: '2024-09-05'
modified_time: 2024-09-05 15:08:15-04:00
published_time: 2024-09-05 15:08:14-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/09/05/readout-of-principal-deputy-national-security-advisor-jon-finers-trip-to-ukraine/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Readout of Principal Deputy National Security Advisor Jon Finer\u2019s Trip\
  \ to\_Ukraine"
---
 
Principal Deputy National Security Advisor Jon Finer traveled to Kyiv on
September 4 and 5 to coordinate on U.S. plans to support Ukraine over
the remainder of President Biden’s term in office. 

Finer met with Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy to discuss U.S.
support for Ukraine’s military, energy system, and economy, among other
areas, and to consult on Ukraine’s strategy in its fight against Russian
aggression. Finer expressed condolences on behalf of the United States
for the casualties caused by Russia’s recent missile attacks and
emphasized the President’s steadfast commitment to stand with Ukraine
until they prevail in this war. 

Finer met with Andriy Yermak, the head of the Presidential Office, and
Ukrainian military officials to discuss the state of Ukraine’s
operations across the front lines. Finer briefed the Ukrainian officials
on the ongoing provision of U.S. security assistance to help Ukraine
defend itself.

Finer joined Ukrainian Prime Minister Denys Shmyhal and senior officials
from across the Ukrainian government, including regional representatives
from Kharkiv and other regions in Ukraine in a conversation to
review Ukraine’s energy security. Finer received updates on Ukraine’s
recovery efforts following recent Russian strikes and discussed U.S.
assistance to help Ukraine repair its energy system. Additionally, Finer
visited a critical energy site in Ukraine to see first-hand the efforts
underway to harden these sites ahead of the winter. 

Finer participated in-person in Ukraine’s conference on food security as
part of the peace formula process, which representatives from more than
75 countries attended virtually. In his remarks at the conference, Finer
emphasized U.S. support for Ukraine’s pursuit of a just and lasting
peace to end this war. 

Finer also met with First Deputy Prime Minisyer Yuliia Svyrydenko to
discuss U.S. sanctions against Russia and with Foreign Minister Dmytro
Kuleba to review Ukraine’s efforts to rally global opposition to
Russia’s war of aggression. 

\###
