---
date: '2024-09-24'
modified_time: 2024-09-24 11:17:49-04:00
published_time: 2024-09-24 12:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/09/24/fact-sheet-the-united-states-commitment-to-address-the-global-mpox-outbreak/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: The United\_States Commitment to Address the Global Mpox\_Outbreak"
---
 
*“Now we face the mpox outbreak in Central and Eastern Africa. Mpox is
different from COVID-19. But we will act quickly – and bring partners
with us. We are prepared to commit at least $500 million – to support
African countries to prevent and respond to mpox and donate up to one
million doses of mpox vaccines. We call on governments, charities, and
businesses to match our pledge – and make this a $1 billion commitment
to the people of Africa.” —*President Biden, September 24, 2024

The United States has led global efforts to combat infectious diseases,
including mpox, for decades. Most recently in 2022, the Biden-Harris
Administration mounted a robust response to the spread of clade IIb mpox
by making vaccines available to those at risk, making testing more
convenient, and providing treatments to those who needed them both in
the United States and worldwide. In response to the ongoing mpox
outbreak in Eastern and Central Africa, with several cases outside the
region, the United States is acting quickly and decisively to support
the response, and to prepare for potential cases domestically. On
September 16, the White House welcomed key partners and community
stakeholders working on mpox in the United States and around the world
to a roundtable with U.S. Government leadership to exchange ideas,
feedback and recommendations to inform the U.S. response to this global
crisis.

This week, President Biden announced that the United States is committed
to providingat least **$500 million dollars, as well as one million mpox
vaccine doses, to support African countries to prevent and respond to
the current mpox outbreak.** These investments will be delivered both
bilaterally, through existing relationships with partner countries, as
well as through multilateral institutions. United States investments in
mpox preparedness and response will address a range of needs outlined in
the Mpox Continental Preparedness and Response Plan jointly issued by
the Africa Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (Africa CDC) and
the World Health Organization (WHO), including training frontline health
workers, disease surveillance, laboratory diagnostic supplies and
testing, clinical case management, risk communication and community
engagement, infection prevention and control, and research. In addition
to financial support and vaccines, the U.S. Government has surged
**dozens of staff**, including epidemiologists, laboratorians, and risk
communication experts to offer support to the mpox response in DRC and
each of the countries surrounding DRC.

**BUILDING STRONGER, RESILIENT HEALTH SYSTEMS**

Investments in building stronger health systems are essential to a rapid
and effective emergency response. Longstanding United States support,
including through the President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief
(PEPFAR), helped to strengthen the systems that are now supporting the
mpox response.

-   **Ongoing global health and health security investments.** Since the
    start of the Biden-Harris Administration, the United States has
    provided more than $50 billion to support global health and health
    security. The United States is the largest health donor in the
    Africa region, allocating more than $2.65 billion in bilateral
    health funding to countries in Central and Eastern Africa in FY 2023
    alone.

<!-- -->

-   **Global health security partnerships.** In April 2024, the United
    States announced formal [global health security partnerships with 50
    countries](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/04/16/fact-sheet-biden-%e2%81%a0harris-administration-releases-strategy-to-strengthen-global-health-security/),
    including Burundi, DRC, Kenya, and Uganda. Global health security
    investments make it possible for the United States to address
    country-identified gaps in their capacity to prevent, detect,
    respond to, and recover from health security threats. U.S.
    assistance to the government of DRC, which began in 2015, has
    bolstered the DRC’s efforts to contain five Ebola outbreaks since
    2020, develop an antimicrobial stewardship work plan, and develop a
    community feedback system to address infectious disease threats.

<!-- -->

-   **President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR).** For over 20
    years, PEPFAR has supported more than 55 countries worldwide, saved
    more than 25 million lives, enabled 5.5 million babies to be born
    HIV-free, and prevented millions of new HIV infections. Longstanding
    PEPFAR investments in creating sustainable HIV care platforms have
    been leveraged for quick and effective response to cholera,
    COVID-19, Ebola, H1N1 influenza, tuberculosis, and other health
    threats. Given the increased risk of severe morbidity and mortality
    from mpox among people living with HIV, PEPFAR is ensuring program
    continuity to protect people living with HIV through the use of
    existing PEPFAR platforms through risk communication, laboratory and
    surveillance capacity, referral to care, HIV testing, and
    vaccination delivery to help prevent and respond to mpox.

**SUPPORTING MPOX TESTING, VACCINATION, TREATMENT AND CARE**

-   **Mpox vaccine research and development.** Since 2007, the United
    States, through the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS),
    has invested more than $2 billion in the JYNNEOS vaccine as part of
    smallpox preparedness. Additionally, U.S. Government research
    institutions led the development of the JYNNEOS vaccine through
    preclinical evaluation, clinical trials, and advanced clinical
    evaluation platforms. These investments directly led to product
    licensure for both smallpox and mpox. On September 13, WHO announced
    pre-qualification of the JYNNEOS vaccine for global use, including
    in the Africa region in response to ongoing mpox outbreaks.

<!-- -->

-   **Mpox vaccine donation.** This week President Biden pledged that
    the United States will donate up to one million doses of the mpox
    vaccine. The first U.S.-donated vaccine doses arrived in Nigeria in
    August (10,000 doses), and in DRC in September (50,000 doses). The
    next installment of the U.S. commitment, 300,000 vaccine doses, will
    be available immediately for disbursement in coordination with Gavi,
    the Vaccine Alliance and the WHO Access and Allocation Mechanism.
    Additional mpox vaccine doses will be delivered in tranches
    (totaling up to one million) pending country progress in
    administering the vaccines, in coordination with Gavi.

<!-- -->

-   **Clinical care and protecting health workers.** In DRC, the U.S.
    Government has procured and delivered medical kits containing
    antibiotics, oral hydration, and wound care supplies to support
    government facilities to offer mpox patients relief from their
    symptoms free of charge, which bolsters community trust and
    connection with the health care system. The U.S. Government is
    expanding health care worker capacity to treat mpox and offer
    psychosocial support to patients, while simultaneously training the
    workers to protect themselves through use of infection prevention
    and control best practices.

<!-- -->

-   **Diagnostic tests and training.** The U.S. Government is also
    supporting mpox-affected countries with laboratory expertise and
    diagnostic supplies. This includes: providing **over 40,000
    individual test assays and reagents** that ensured that countries in
    the region had the capacity to detect clade I mpox when it crossed
    their borders; training dozens of laboratory personnel on the use of
    mpox test kits and procedures to enhance laboratory safety, hygiene,
    and waste management; strengthening the reach and availability of
    rapid diagnostic testing capacity; expanding specimen transportation
    routes; and establishing platforms for laboratory data management.

<!-- -->

-   **Development and testing of effective therapeutics.** The United
    States Government is leading the ongoing “Study of Tecovirimat for
    Human Mpox Virus” clinical trial for mpox treatment in the United
    States and other countries affected by clade II mpox.

<!-- -->

-   **Identifying mpox research priorities.** To help prioritize mpox
    research, the United States [released an update on mpox research
    priorities](https://www.niaid.nih.gov/news-events/nih-releases-mpox-research-agenda),
    focusing on four objectives: (1) increasing knowledge about the
    biology of all clades, including how the virus is transmitted and
    how people’s immune systems respond to it; (2) evaluating dosing
    regimens of current mpox vaccines to stretch the vaccine supply and
    developing novel vaccine concepts; (3) advancing existing and novel
    treatments, including antivirals and monoclonal antibodies; and (4)
    supporting strategies for detecting the virus to facilitate clinical
    care and epidemiological surveillance.

**LEVERAGING STRONG MULTILATERAL PARTNERSHIPS**

As with investments in health systems, building stronger and more
effective multilateral institutions between emergencies is essential to
ensuring the world is prepared to respond effectively in times of
crisis. The United States supports the critical roles of WHO and Africa
CDC in leading the mpox response, and we call on those institutions to
utilize the strong partnerships that are already in place, including
with other multilateral institutions, to protect the health and
wellbeing of people living in the affected countries.

-   **World Health Organization.** Among his first acts in office,
    President Biden declared the United States would reengage with WHO,
    highlighting our nation’s commitment to advancing multilateral
    cooperation in a global health crisis. Beyond health emergencies,
    the United States is collaborating with WHO on a wide range of
    global health issues such as childhood immunization, nutrition,
    polio eradication, and strengthening the global health workforce to
    achieve universal health coverage. Since the beginning of the
    Biden-Harris Administration, the United States has provided nearly
    $1.9 billion of support to WHO. In addition, since March 2024, the
    United States has already provided more than $7.7 million to WHO to
    support mpox response activities, and $450,000 for building
    sustainable capacity for mpox elimination in DRC, Burundi, Central
    African Republic, Republic of Congo, Rwanda, and Uganda. 

<!-- -->

-   **Africa CDC.** The United States welcomes and supports the role of
    Africa CDC as a continent-wide public health institution,
    established in 2016. In 2022, the U.S. Government signed a
    Memorandum of Cooperation to Promote Public Health Partnership with
    the African Union, accompanied by a U.S.-Africa CDC Joint Action
    Plan outlining shared global health priorities and areas for
    collaboration. In addition to substantial U.S. bilateral and
    multilateral support aligned with Africa CDC’s five-year strategic
    plan and Agenda 2063, the United States provided more than $3
    million in direct support to the Africa CDC in the form of in-kind
    assistance last year alone.

<!-- -->

-   **Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance**. Gavi holds essential expertise in
    effective vaccine procurement, distribution, and administration,
    which should be leveraged immediately in the mpox response. Since
    its inception in 2000, the United States Government has invested or
    announced: 1) over $3.6 billion to improve equitable access to new
    and underutilized vaccines in low- and middle-income countries; 2) a
    $4 billion dollar contribution to Gavi’s COVAX Advance Market
    Commitment; 3) an annual contribution to Gavi’s core budget,
    including $300 million in 2024 ; 4) and pledged at least $1.58
    billion towards USG’s first-ever five-year pledge to Gavi’s next
    replenishment cycle, subject to Congressional approval. U.S. funding
    is included in Gavi’s $500 million [First Response
    Fund](https://www.gavi.org/news/media-room/gavi-signs-agreement-bavarian-nordic-rapidly-secure-500000-doses-mpox-vaccines),
    which is supporting procurement, delivery, and deployment of 500,000
    JYNNEOS doses in response to the mpox outbreak. Finally, affected
    countries, WHO, Africa CDC, and Gavi recently established the
    [Access and Allocation Mechanism (AAM) as a platform to increase
    equitable
    access](https://www.who.int/news/item/13-09-2024-who-and-partners-establish-an-access-and-allocation-mechanism-for-mpox-vaccines--treatments--tests)
    to mpox response resources and contributions.

<!-- -->

-   **The Quad.** The Quad partnership was established in 2020 between
    the United States, India, Japan and Australia as a global force for
    good, including working together to help partners address pandemics
    and disease. During a [September 21 Quad
    Summit](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/09/21/fact-sheet-2024-quad-leaders-summit/),
    leaders agreed to coordinate efforts to promote equitable access to
    safe, effective, quality-assured mpox vaccines, including where
    appropriate expanding vaccine manufacturing in low and middle-income
    countries.

<!-- -->

-   **Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI).** CEPI is
    working to accelerate the development of life-saving vaccines
    against emerging disease threats, and to transform capability for
    rapid countermeasure development in response to future threats.To
    date, the U.S. Government has invested $117 million through CEPI to
    accelerated the development of vaccines and other biologic
    countermeasures against epidemic and pandemic threats. CEPI has
    funded two scientific studies in Africa (the DRC and Uganda) focused
    on the JYNNEOS vaccine; it has also supported early clinical
    development of BioNTech’s next-generation mRNA-based pox vaccine and
    providing funding to support Bavarian Nordic’s MVA-BN® mpox vaccine
    clinical trials in DRC, Uganda, and Nigeria through the SMART trial.

<!-- -->

-   **The Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria.** The
    Global Fund is working to defeat HIV, TB and malaria and ensure a
    healthier, safer, more equitable future for all. The U.S. is the
    largest donor to The Global Fund, and President Biden led the
    largest Global Fund replenishment ever in 2022. In August 2024, in
    response to the evolving mpox outbreak, the Global Fund quickly
    pivoted to [update its
    guidance](https://www.theglobalfund.org/en/updates/2024/2024-08-30-global-fund-supports-countries-efforts-respond-mpox/)
    in order to direct grant funds to help [eligible
    countries](https://www.theglobalfund.org/media/13679/core_eligiblecountries2024_list_en.pdf)
    to prevent, detect, and respond to mpox outbreaks. Earlier this
    month, Global Fund [committed an additional $9.5 million to support
    DRC’s mpox
    response](https://www.theglobalfund.org/en/news/2024/2024-09-18-global-fund-provides-nearly-us-10-million-drc-mpox-response/).

<!-- -->

-   **UNICEF.** As the lead UN agency for children, UNICEF works in over
    190 countries to save children’s lives and to support health and
    development. To date, the U.S. has provided UNICEF with more than
    $1.4 million to support clade I mpox preparedness and response
    activities in DRC, Burundi, and the Republic of Congo. UNICEF
    supports risk communication and community engagement, clinical
    services, psychosocial support, and coordination.

<!-- -->

-   **United Nations High Commission for Refugees (UNHCR).** As the lead
    UN agency for refugees, UNHCR provides vital protection and
    assistance to refugees, asylum-seekers, internally displaced and
    stateless people. Through UNHCR, the United States has provided
    nearly $9 million in humanitarian assistance this year to address
    urgent mpox-related needs among refugees, internally-displaced
    persons, host communities and other vulnerable populations in 14
    countries throughout Africa.

<!-- -->

-   **International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies**
    (**IFRC).** IFRC is the world’s largest humanitarian network working
    in more than 190 countries through a network of more than 16 million
    volunteers. To date, the U.S. Government has provided IFRC with
    $800,000 to support clade I mpox preparedness and response
    activities in DRC. IFRC supports risk communication and community
    engagement, clinical services, psychosocial support, and
    coordination.

**EXPANDING HEALTH EMERGENCY FINANCING**

In addition to ongoing bilateral and multilateral support to build
stronger health systems, respond to ongoing health challenges, and pivot
to address the current mpox crisis, the United States supports expanded
sources of financing for response to health emergencies. Many of these
have been developed and launched since the COVID-19 pandemic to address
gaps identified through that response.

-   **The Pandemic Fund.** As the only multilateral fund fully focused
    on prevention and preparedness, the Pandemic Fund has
    a critical role to play in building capacity to end the current
    outbreak and prevent the next one. The Pandemic Fund has taken quick
    action to support mpox preparedness efforts, approving $129 million
    to support 10 countries impacted by the disease to strengthen
    laboratory, surveillance, and human resources capacities. The
    selected projects meet needs articulated in the joint WHO-Africa CDC
    Mpox Continental Preparedness and Response Plan for Africa. The
    awards will be implemented over multiple years enabling an effective
    transition from crisis to long term preparedness. To continue its
    critical work, the Pandemic Fund is engaged in a concurrent resource
    mobilization round, with the goal of raising at least $2 billion in
    new funding through 2026. The United States has committed to provide
    up to $667 million, subject to Congressional appropriations and the
    availability of funds.

<!-- -->

-   **Gavi’s Day Zero Financing Facility.** The United States has
    supported Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance in establishing the Day Zero
    Financing Facility, a suite of tools that will mobilize, for
    example, up to $2 billion in risk-tolerant surge and contingent
    capital to enable Gavi to quickly meet the demand for vaccines in a
    pandemic.

<!-- -->

-   **U.S. Development Finance Corporation (DFC) Health Emergency
    Financing**: The DFC finances private-sector led solutions to health
    services, supply chain, and technology challenges in low- and
    middle-income countries. These solutions improve health system
    resilience and pandemic preparedness through: 1) a $1 billion-dollar
    rapid financing facility applicable to a full spectrum of vaccines
    (COVID-19, childhood vaccine-preventable diseases, and future
    outbreaks); 2) investments in regional, Africa-based vaccine
    manufacturing, including Aspen Pharmacare (South Africa) and
    Institute Pasteur de Dakar (Senegal); and 3) a G7 Surge Financing
    Initiative for Medical Countermeasures that supports Gavi and
    regional vaccine manufacturers.

<!-- -->

-   **Multilateral development bank (MDB) evolution.** MDBs have a key
    role to play in helping countries address global challenges, such as
    climate change, pandemics, and fragility and conflict. The United
    States is working with other shareholders to evolve the visions,
    incentive structures, operational approaches, and financial capacity
    of the MDBs to equip these institutions to respond to global
    challenges with sufficient speed and scale. The United States is
    pleased to see the close coordination between the World Bank, IMF,
    and regional development banks with WHO and affected countries on
    how to best utilize or reprogram resources to aid the mpox response.

—-

*To learn more about mpox, its signs and symptoms, vaccines, prevention,
and treatments, please visit the [U.S. CDC
website](https://www.cdc.gov/mpox/site.html#hcp).*

\###
