---
date: '2024-09-30'
modified_time: 2024-09-30 19:29:06-04:00
published_time: 2024-09-30 19:29:05-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/09/30/a-proclamation-on-national-breast-cancer-awareness-month-2024/
tags: statements-releases
title: "A Proclamation on National Breast Cancer Awareness Month,\_2024"
---
 
    Too many Americans know the pain of losing a mother, sister, wife,
daughter, or loved one to breast cancer.  During National Breast Cancer
Awareness Month, we honor the memories of all those we have lost to this
devastating disease.  We give strength and support to their families, to
their caregivers, to survivors, and to women still undergoing treatment.
 And we express our gratitude to all the medical professionals and
health researchers working tirelessly to end cancer as we know it. 

     Today, there are more than four million breast cancer survivors in
America — and this year alone, hundreds of thousands more will be
diagnosed.  While scientists have made significant breakthroughs to
better prevent, detect, and treat breast cancer, a diagnosis is
frightening and overwhelming.  Patients and families are often flooded
with complex medical information and forced to advocate for themselves
to receive basic care.  Additionally, some patients are left saddled
with exorbitant medical bills while undergoing grueling treatments.

     For my family and Vice President Harris’ family — along with
millions of families across the country — cancer is personal.  Ending
cancer as we know it has been a top priority for my Administration since
day one.  The First Lady and I reignited the Cancer Moonshot to cut the
cancer death rate by at least 50 percent over the next 25 years and
improve the experience of those diagnosed with cancer and their loved
ones.  I also established the Advanced Research Projects Agency for
Health, securing $4 billion in bipartisan funding to help the
scientists, innovators, and public health professionals who are working
around the clock to improve the prevention, detection, and treatment of
cancers and other deadly diseases.

     My Administration has also worked hard to make cancer treatment
more affordable for patients.  I strengthened Medicaid and the
Affordable Care Act (ACA), expanding health coverage to millions of
Americans and saving millions of families $800 per year on their health
insurance premiums.  My Inflation Reduction Act will cap total
out-of-pocket costs for prescription drugs at $2,000 per year for
seniors and other people on Medicare — including expensive cancer
medications, which can cost tens of thousands of dollars. 

     Moreover, to increase support for patients and their families, we
have ensured that people facing cancer can access patient navigation
services that are fully paid for through Medicare, Medicaid, and private
health insurance.  This personalized assistance helps lift the burden of
managing the complex medical journey alone from millions of patients.

     Furthermore, my Administration is committed to ensuring women have
access to screening and early detection services, which are critical in
catching breast cancer early and saving lives.  Toward that aim, we
expanded coverage under the ACA, which requires insurers to pay for
recommended cancer screenings — including mammograms — for many more
Americans.  We expanded access to free breast cancer screenings for any
veteran exposed to burn pits during their military service.  And we will
continue to forge partnerships with community health centers to help
ensure underserved communities have access to early detection and
support services.

     For more information about breast cancer, go to
cancer.gov/types/breast or call 1-800-422-6237 to speak to information
specialists at the National Cancer Institute in English and in Spanish. 
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention’s National Breast and
Cervical Cancer Early Detection Program also offers breast cancer
screenings or diagnostic services to low-income individuals who are
uninsured or otherwise qualify for the program — go to
cdc.gov/breast-cervical-cancer-screening/ to learn more.

     This National Breast Cancer Awareness Month, let us each recommit
to doing our part to give more support, hope, and care to patients,
families, and survivors of breast cancer.  Let us rise above party and
politics and unite as Americans to help all of our loved ones struggling
with this terrible disease.  And let us strengthen our resolve together
as a Nation to end cancer as we know it — for all the lives we have lost
and all those we can still save. 

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
October 2024 as National Breast Cancer Awareness Month.  I encourage
citizens, government agencies, private businesses, nonprofit
organizations, and other interested groups to join in activities that
will increase awareness of what Americans can do to prevent and control
breast cancer and pay tribute to those who have lost their lives to this
disease.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirtieth day
of September, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-four, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-ninth.  

                              JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
