---
date: '2024-09-25'
published_time: 2024-09-25 17:09:31-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/09/25/joint-declaration-of-support-for-recovery-and-reconstruction-of-ukraine/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Joint Declaration of Support for Recovery and Reconstruction of\_Ukraine"
---
 
We, the Leaders of the Group of Seven (G7), reaffirm our unwavering
support for Ukraine today and in the future, in war and in peace. As
stated in the Apulia-G7 Leaders’ Communiqué, together with international
partners, we remain determined to provide military, budget,
humanitarian, and reconstruction support to Ukraine and its people and
are strongly committed to helping Ukraine meet its urgent short-term
financing needs and to assisting with Ukraine’s long-term recovery and
reconstruction.

We dispel any false notion that time is on Russia’s side or that Russia
can prevail by causing Ukraine to fail economically. Russia’s war of
aggression has wrought tremendous damage upon Ukrainian cities and
infrastructure. Today, we reaffirm a series of commitments to counter
its effects.

First, Russia’s responsibility under international law to pay for the
damage it is causing is clear. We reaffirm that, consistent with all
applicable laws and our respective legal systems, Russia’s sovereign
assets in our jurisdictions will remain immobilized until Russia ends
its aggression and pays for the damage it has caused to Ukraine.

Second, we commit to use our economic assistance to ensure Ukraine
maintains macro-financial stability, to repair and build critical
infrastructure including in the energy sector, to boost economic growth,
to support social resilience as well as the implementation of priority
reforms. These include improving the business climate, strengthening
anti-corruption efforts, implementing the justice system reform and
promoting of the rule of law within the context of the EU accession
process. We will also support Ukraine to ensure rapid and transparent
absorption of donor financing.

Third we are continuing our joint work to implement the decision made at
the G7 Summit in Apulia to launch Extraordinary Revenue Acceleration
(ERA) Loans for Ukraine by the end of the year, in order to make
available approximately USD 50 billion in additional funding to Ukraine.
The loans will be serviced and repaid by the future flows of
extraordinary revenues stemming from the immobilization of Russian
sovereign assets held in the European Union and other relevant
jurisdictions. Part of these funds will be directed to military
assistance to Ukraine. We will maintain solidarity in our commitment to
providing this support to Ukraine.

Fourth, we will continue to pursue our vision also by strategizing,
coordinating and steering our support for Ukraine’s economic recovery
and reconstruction through the Ukraine Donor Platform. This will include
catalyzing private sector contributions as well as leveraging bilateral,
European Union, and international financial institution funding, and
encouraging Ukraine’s reform agenda in view of the country’s accession
path to the EU. We will continue to support Ukraine’s human capital
through our ongoing response to humanitarian needs and social
protection.

Finally, we will continue to assess and monitor progress on these
commitments through Ukraine Donor Platform meetings and the annual
Ukraine Recovery Conference, the next edition of which will be hosted by
Italy in 2025.

In order to implement the above-mentioned commitments,we will each work
to provideUkraine withspecific, bilateral support aligned with this
joint declaration and with the bilateral security agreements and
arrangements that have been negotiated and signed with Ukraine.

For its part, Ukraine is committed to implementing its economic,
judiciary, anti-corruption, corporate governance, defense, public
administration, public investment management and law enforcement
reforms. These reforms are necessary and will be vital to enabling
long-term support for Ukrainian reconstruction and recovery.

Our message is clear: we remain committed to the strategic objective of
a free, independent, democratic and sovereign Ukraine, within its
internationally recognized borders, that is prosperous and able to
defend itself. We highlight the importance of an inclusive and
gender-responsive recovery and the need to address the different needs
of women, children and disabled persons as well as other population
groups who have been disproportionately affected by Russia’s war of
aggression. Through our collective support for Ukrainian reconstruction
and recovery, we will ensure that Russia fails in its objectives to
subjugate Ukraine – and that Ukraine emerges from Russia’s war of
aggression with a modernized, vibrant, inclusive society and innovative
economy, resilient to Russian threats. Other countries that wish to
contribute to this effort in support of Ukraine’s long-term
reconstruction and recovery may join this Joint Declaration at any time.

\###
