---
date: '2024-09-18'
modified_time: 2024-09-18 19:40:13-04:00
published_time: 2024-09-18 19:40:12-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/09/18/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-releases-u-s-strategy-on-global-development/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Releases U.S. Strategy on Global\_\
  Development"
---
 
Today, the White House launched the [U.S. Strategy on Global
Development](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/09/FINAL-U.S.-Strategy-on-Global-Development_091824.pdf)
to codify the Biden-Harris Administration’s commitment and work over the
past four years to accelerate development progress in pursuit of a world
that is more free, open, prosperous, and secure.  Our approach to global
development – rooted in partnership, transparency, and a commitment to
sustainable outcomes – positions the United States to better meet the
challenges of today and tomorrow in coordination with global partners. 

The world is at a critical moment.  People around the globe are
struggling to cope with the effects of compounding crises and challenges
that cross borders – whether it is climate change, food insecurity,
pandemics, or fragility and conflict.  At the same time, in this age of
interdependence in which we must find new and better ways to work
together to confront shared challenges, geopolitical competition is also
reshaping the global development system.  Our affirmative development
agenda reinforces the United States’ commitment to promoting a world in
which everyone can live in dignity, all people are afforded equal
opportunity, and no one is left behind. 

**THE NEW GLOBAL DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY**

The U.S. Strategy on Global Development articulates an integrated,
whole-of-government approach, building on more than 75 years of U.S.
leadership and investment in global development as a strategic,
economic, and moral imperative.  The United States remains committed to
accelerating development progress around the world and to fully
implementing the ambitious, [2030 Agenda for Sustainable
Development](http://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/09/20/fact-sheet-u-s-action-on-global-development/)
and its Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), adopted by 194 nations in
2015.  More than halfway to 2030, we are collectively only on track to
achieve 15 percent of the SDGs targets.

The United States has redoubled its efforts to protect hard-won
development gains and to help developing country partners meet urgent
needs, by leveraging the full suite of tools, resources, and expertise
across 21 U.S. Government Departments and Agencies.  In the first three
years of the Biden-Harris Administration, we invested \[more than $150
billion and mobilized billions more in private sector investment\] to
drive progress on the SDGs. 

Today, U.S. global development investments are better targeted to
achieve sustainable development outcomes and to maximize critical
partnerships with other donors, the private sector, international
financial institutions, multilateral organizations, and nongovernmental
partners.  The Strategy sets out five strategic objectives:

-   **Reduce Poverty through Inclusive and Sustainable Economic Growth
    and Quality Infrastructure Development. ** For the first time in
    decades, we saw an increase in extreme poverty and inequality during
    the pandemic.  We recognize that many countries and communities
    around the world continue to struggle economically following the
    COVID-19 crisis.  The United States is committed to promoting
    inclusive and sustainable economic growth – growth that improves the
    lives of all members of society, including those in vulnerable
    situations. In the first three years of the Biden-Harris
    Administration, we have invested over $58.5 billion to reduce
    poverty and advance shared prosperity.  We have also accelerated
    investment in high-quality infrastructure as key driver of
    sustainable and inclusive economic growth and development.  Over the
    last three years through the [Partnership for Global Infrastructure
    and
    Investment](http://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/06/26/fact-sheet-president-biden-and-g7-leaders-formally-launch-the-partnership-for-global-infrastructure-and-investment/),
    we have mobilized nearly $60 billion in public and private sector
    funding for infrastructure investments to advance climate
    resilience, energy security, secure digital connectivity, health and
    health security, agriculture and food security, and water and
    sanitation.

We have also led a global effort to reform the multilateral development
banks to equip these institutions to better address today’s complex
development challenges like climate change, pandemics, and fragility and
conflict.  Addressing these challenges is integral to achieving their
core mandates to end extreme poverty and promote sustainable, inclusive,
and resilient development.  Recognizing that too many countries around
the world are forced to make tough choices between making debt payments
or investing in their own development progress and addressing global
challenges, the Biden-Harris Administration launched the
[Nairobi-Washington
Vision](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/05/23/the-nairobi-washington-vision/),
calling on the international community to step up support for developing
countries committed to ambitious reforms and investments that are held
back by high debt burdens. 

-   **Invest in Health, Food Security, and Human Capital. ** The United
    States is committed to sustaining critical investments in the
    fundamentals of all thriving societies: health, food security, and
    human capital.  The United States continues to build resilient,
    responsive, and sustainably financed health systems, accelerate
    efforts towards universal health coverage, and promote primary
    health care and health equity.  As infectious disease outbreaks and
    epidemics are increasing in both severity and frequency, U.S.
    leadership on global health security saves lives and strengthens
    health systems abroad, while keeping Americans safer at home.   The
    United States has led an international effort to vaccinate the world
    against COVID‑19 – donating more than 692 million doses to 117
    countries – while simultaneously investing in strengthening
    countries’ capabilities to prevent, detect, and respond to future
    global health threats.  The Biden-Harris Administration has
    sustained the United States’ longstanding leadership and investments
    in the fight to end HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis, and malaria as public
    health threats by 2030, including through robust commitments to the
    [President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief
    (PEPFAR)](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/01/28/statement-from-president-joe-biden-on-the-20th-anniversary-of-the-u-s-presidents-emergency-plan-for-aids-relief-pepfar/),
    which has saved more than 25 million lives to date, and a commitment
    to five-year authorization.  The Biden-Harris Administration remains
    committed to securing a clean, five-year reauthorization for PEPFAR
    that is fully funded.  President Biden also led the historic
    replenishment of the G[lobal Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis, and
    Malaria](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/09/21/fact-sheet-president-biden-raises-record-level-funding-for-global-health-through-global-fund-seventh-replenishment/)
    in 2022, which raised $15.7 billion.  In June, we announced a new
    five-year commitment to GAVI, the Vaccine Alliance, totaling at
    least $1.58 billion, to help reach the goal of vaccinating more than
    500 million more children and save more than 8 million lives by
    2030.

Meanwhile, hunger and malnutrition are affecting the world’s most
marginalized communities.  After decades of progress, a series of
unprecedented shocks and stresses –exacerbated by the climate crisis –
have reversed many development gains.  An estimated 152 million more
people are hungry today than in 2019. The United States continues to
lead global efforts to address food insecurity, having invested over $20
billion, including through [Feed the
Future](http://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/09/20/fact-sheet-u-s-action-on-global-development/),
to boost food production, provide critical aid to reduce malnutrition,
build more resilient food systems, and strengthen countries’ capacity to
better withstand shocks. The Biden-Harris Administration also remains
committed to supporting human capital development, including and
especially children and youth, by expanding access to quality,
inclusive, safe, and equitable education. In the first three years of
the Administration, we have invested over $4.2 billion to support
efforts to expand education access.

-   **Decarbonize the Economy and Increase Climate Resilience.** The
    climate crisis has reached existential proportions, shattering
    records for catastrophic droughts and extreme weather events,
    decimating livelihoods, and undermining health, food, and water
    security.  This is the decisive decade for tackling the climate
    crisis, and the Biden-Harris Administration is advancing bold
    efforts at the nexus of decarbonization, energy security, and energy
    access.  In the first three years of the Administration, the United
    States has invested over $1.9 billion to expand energy access and
    over $4.5 billion to combat climate change.  We have taken steps to
    doing our part to limit warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius by putting in
    place ambitious policies to achieve at least a 50 percent decrease
    in emissions domestically by 2030. 

Through the [President’s Emergency Plan for Adaptation and
Resilience](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/10/Full-PREPARE-Plan.pdf),
we are helping strengthen the climate resilience of countries and
communities, supporting more than half a billion people reduce risks and
adapt to climate change-related impacts by 2030.  We have bolstered
efforts to increase inclusive, transparent, and accountable access to
climate finance for developing partner countries, in pursuit of the
President’s commitment to work with Congress to increase U.S.-provided
international climate finance to $11 billion annually.  Building on the
Inflation Reduction Act, the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, and the
CHIPS and Science Act, the United States is helping developing country
partners reduce greenhouse gas emissions and increase clean energy
access, through data-driven clean and just energy transitions, green
transportation, climate-smart agriculture, and efforts to halt
deforestation to preserve carbon critical landscapes. 

-   **Promote Democracy, Human Rights, and Governance, and Address
    Fragility and Conflict.** Democracy and human rights are under
    threat worldwide.  Over the last decade, there has been a resurgence
    of authoritarianism and democratic backsliding.  Conflict is on the
    rise across the globe and threatens to undermine future progress on
    all SDGs.  In response, the United States has invested $27.2 billion
    in the first three years of the Biden-Harris Administration to
    promote peaceful and inclusive societies, access to justice, and
    building effective and accountable institutions.  Through the
    [Presidential Initiative for Democratic
    Renewal](http://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/12/09/fact-sheet-announcing-the-presidential-initiative-for-democratic-renewal/)
    and the [U.S. Strategy on Countering
    Corruption](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/12/06/fact-sheet-u-s-strategy-on-countering-corruption/),
    the United States has made historic commitments to promote
    accountability, advance digital democracy, support free and
    independent media, fight corruption, bolster human rights and
    democratic reformers, and defend free and fair elections.  Given
    that this decade will likely experience levels of conflict not seen
    since the 1980s, we are also taking steps to promote stability,
    prevent and respond to conflict and violence, and address the
    drivers of fragility, including through the [U.S. Strategy to
    Prevent Conflict and Promote
    Stability](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/04/01/letter-from-the-president-on-the-implementation-of-the-global-fragility-act/),
    the [U.S. Women, Peace and Security
    Strategy](http://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/10/31/fact-sheet-release-of-the-2023-women-peace-and-security-strategy-and-national-action-plan/),
    and the [U.S. Strategy to Prevent, Anticipate and Respond to
    Atrocities](http://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/07/18/statement-by-nsc-spokesperson-adrienne-watson-on-the-release-of-the-u-s-strategy-to-prevent-and-respond-to-atrocities/). 

<!-- -->

-   **Respond to Humanitarian Needs.**  At a moment of unprecedented
    global need, the United States continues to be the world’s leading
    single-country humanitarian donor.  Under the Biden-Harris
    Administration, we have provided over $49 billion to programs
    delivering principled, live-saving humanitarian assistance to people
    in need around the world.  This critical funding has saved lives,
    alleviated human suffering, and reduced the impact of disasters by
    supporting people and communities in the most vulnerable situations
    to become more resilient to shocks and stressors.  On average, the
    United States responds to 75 crises in 70 countries each year,
    reaching tens of millions of people around the world with
    life-saving humanitarian assistance, including food, water, shelter,
    health care, and other critical aid.  In an era of ever-increasing
    needs, we are also taking steps to unlock new and innovative
    financing to support more sustainable solutions, reducing the need
    for humanitarian assistance over time, while promoting
    cost-effective systemic reforms.

In the face of global challenges, we are committed to reclaiming lost
development gains and accelerating collective progress toward the SDGs. 
A more secure and prosperous world is only possible when we stand
together to tackle complex global challenges and advance dignity and
freedom for all.

\###
