---
date: '2024-09-23'
published_time: 2024-09-23 15:57:17-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/09/23/u-s-uae-joint-leaders-statement-dynamic-strategic-partners/
tags: statements-releases
title: "U.S.-UAE Joint Leaders\u2019 Statement Dynamic Strategic\_Partners"
---
 
His Highness Sheikh Mohamed bin Zayed Al Nahyan, President of the United
Arab Emirates, and President Joseph R. Biden Jr. met today at the White
House during an official visit of His Highness President Sheikh Mohamed
bin Zayed to the United States.  The visit is the first-ever by a
President of the United Arab Emirates to Washington and marks the
leaders’ fourth bilateral meeting in the Biden-Harris Administration. 
The leaders affirmed the enduring U.S.-UAE strategic and defense
partnership, bolstered areas of deepening cooperation in advanced
technology and investments, and discussed global and regional matters. 
The leaders pledged to pursue new opportunities to strengthen their
economic and defense partnership; promote peace and stability across the
Middle East and wider region; and deliver global leadership on issues of
shared importance.  The five decades of U.S.-UAE ties and friendship are
rooted in a strong foundation of close collaboration that has
underpinned our countries’ prosperity and security.   
  
The leaders welcomed the significant progress between the United Arab
Emirates and the United States during their tenure through cooperation
in building trusted technology ecosystems, the Partnership for Global
Infrastructure and Investment (PGI), the U.S.-UAE Partnership for
Accelerating Clean Energy (PACE) initiative, and the Economic Policy
Dialogue (EPD), all of which serve to uplift economic and trade ties
between the two countries.   
  
On particular issues of discussion:  
  
**Dynamic Strategic Partnership: Trade and Advanced Technology**  
  
Our countries’ strong foundation of partnership is reflected in our
close alignment on key economic objectives and in the excellence of our
private sectors that generate more than $40 billion of bilateral trade
annually and an access of $26 billion of U.S. exports to the UAE.  The
Leaders charted an ambitious course for the United Arab Emirates and the
United States to lead global efforts to develop and expand new fields
central to the global economy, particularly in advanced technologies and
the clean energy required to power Artificial Intelligence.  
  
They welcomed the partnership between Microsoft and UAE’s Group 42 (G42)
through Microsoft’s $1.5 billion investment in April 2024.  This
investment is accelerating joint AI development to bring advanced AI and
digital infrastructure to countries in the Middle East, Central Asia,
and Africa.  
  
The leaders further welcomed Microsoft and G42’s ongoing digital
transformation in Kenya, which will leverage 1GW of geothermal energy to
power data-centers to enable the deployment of cloud infrastructure and
AI services for the public sector and regulated industries as well as
enterprises.  Further, the partnership will support the development of
local Large Language Models and the establishment of an East African
Innovation Lab.  Additionally, the partnership hopes to encourage
international and local connectivity investments, and collaboration with
the government of Kenya to enable digital transformation programs across
East Africa.  
  
These initiatives mark the beginning of our partnership and investments
in the responsible deployment of advanced technologies, clean energy,
and frontier technologies that will be the engine that powers our
interconnected world.  
  
To meet the promise of this transformational moment and harness the
potential of leading-edge technologies to improve human welfare
globally, President Biden and His Highness President Sheikh Mohamed bin
Zayed welcomed the Common Principles for Cooperation on AI, endorsed
today by National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan and UAE National
Security Advisor Tahnoon bin Zayed, and through which the United States
and the United Arab Emirates aim to further strengthen cooperation,
develop regulatory frameworks, promote the safe and trusted deployment
of critical and emerging technologies, and enable enhanced support for
joint private-public sector research and academic exchanges.    
  
Building on our collaboration in the field of advanced technology, this
partnership incorporates safeguards to protect the national security of
both countries, enable trusted investments and entrepreneurship, and
facilitate cross-border innovation, while creating jobs and facilitating
the protection of advanced U.S. technologies and respect for
international principles, best practices, and human rights.  Moving
forward, the leaders decided to promote the expansion of relationships
among scientific, academic, and research and development communities.   
  
**<u>Strengthening Critical Infrastructure and Supply Chain
Resiliencies</u>**  
  
The leaders reviewed progress on efforts to build a more interconnected,
integrated world in committing to secure and resilient supply chains
through the Partnership for Global Infrastructure and Investment
(PGI).   
  
His Highness President Sheikh Mohamed bin Zayed and President Biden
discussed progress on the landmark India-Middle East-Europe Economic
Corridor (IMEC) launched at the 2023 G20 Leaders’ Summit in New Delhi
together with the leaders of India, Saudi Arabia, France, Germany,
Italy, and the European Union.  The leaders reaffirmed that the corridor
– connecting India to Europe by ship-to-rail connections through the
United Arab Emirates, Saudi Arabia, Jordan, Israel, and Europe through
Greece – will generate economic growth, incentivize new investments,
increase efficiencies and reduce costs, enhance economic unity, generate
jobs, lower greenhouse gas emissions, and enable the transformative
integration of Asia, Europe, and the Middle East.   
  
They underscored that this transformative partnership has the potential
to usher in a new era of international connectivity to facilitate global
trade, expand reliable access to electricity, facilitate clean energy
distribution, and strengthen telecommunication. The two leaders
emphasized the importance of joint initiatives to promote a circular
economy, reduce waste, facilitate recycling, and advance sustainable
practices, underscoring their commitment to innovation for resource
efficiency and environmentally responsible growth.  
  
The leaders also reaffirmed their commitment to continue their efforts
with international partners and the private sector to connect the
continents to commercial hubs and facilitate the development and export
of clean energy; support existing trade and manufacturing synergies;
strengthen food security and supply chains; and link energy grids and
tele-communication lines through undersea cables to expand access to
electricity, enable innovation of advanced clean energy technology, and
connect communities to secure and stable internet.  
  
The leaders additionally discussed the importance of ongoing efforts to
cooperate on strategic investments in hard infrastructure and critical
minerals-supply chains in Africa and emerging markets globally.  These
investments aim to diversify sourcing of critical minerals that are
essential components to clean energy and advanced technologies,
including batteries, wind turbines, semiconductors, and electric
vehicles.  President Biden recognized the United Arab Emirates’
leadership in strategic investments globally to ensure reliable access
to critical infrastructure including, ports, mines, and logistics hubs
through the Abu Dhabi Investment Authority, the Abu Dhabi Developmental
Holding Company, Abu Dhabi Ports, and DP World.   
  
Both leaders committed to remain in close touch on future investment
opportunities and maintain cooperation on strategic investments.    
  
The leaders additionally highlighted that the U.S.–UAE 123 Agreement,
which provides a comprehensive framework for peaceful nuclear
cooperation based on a mutual commitment to nuclear nonproliferation, is
the “gold standard” for securing and propelling the next generation of
technologies.  
  
**<u>Partnering to Protect our Planet Through the Clean Energy
Transition</u>**  
  
The leaders underscored the importance of U.S.-UAE leadership at COP28,
which galvanized world leaders to take action and address the climate
crisis.  President Biden thanked His Highness President Sheikh Mohamed
bin Zayed for his extraordinary commitment that was central to the
groundbreaking outcomes at COP28 in Dubai resulting in the *UAE
Consensus*.   
  
The two leaders recognized that this moment represents a unique
opportunity to create sustainable and clean energy jobs, revitalize
communities, improve quality of life, and power digital infrastructure
with renewable energy across both countries and around the globe.  In
this context, the two leaders affirmed their shared commitment to
protecting our precious planet and securing a sustainable future for
humanity through united leadership across various platforms, including
the upcoming COP29 and beyond, which will serve to advance climate
action and strengthen global partnerships.  
  
The two leaders expressed their determination to leverage visionary
initiatives, including the Partnership for Accelerating Clean Energy
(PACE), the Agricultural Innovation Mission for Climate (AIM4C), the
First Movers Coalition, the Net Zero Producers Forum, the Global Methane
Pledge, Carbon Management Challenge, the Oil and Gas Decarbonization
Charter (OGDC), the Industrial Transition Accelerator (ITA), the Global
Biofuels Alliance, and Global Flaring and Methane Reduction (GFMR) Trust
Fund; and encourage commercial partnerships to decarbonize our energy
systems, reduce emissions in pursuit of a net zero economy, and deliver
prosperity to future generations.   
  
President Biden and His Highness President Sheikh Mohamed bin Zayed
reaffirmed their strong commitment to collaborate on sustainability and
climate resilience, emphasizing their commitment to addressing global
challenges through innovative solutions. The two leaders underscored
their joint efforts in advancing agri-tech and vertical farming
innovations, key drivers in enhancing food security for future
generations. They highlighted ongoing cooperation in humanitarian
initiatives aimed at addressing food insecurity in vulnerable regions,
particularly through agricultural development and capacity building in
climate affected areas. Recognizing the impact of climate change on
public health, the leaders emphasized the need to integrate health
resilience into comprehensive climate action strategies.  
  
President Biden also congratulated the United Arab Emirates on its many
successes in its two Years of Sustainability (2023-2024), including the
recent announcement on co-hosting the next UN Water Conference in 2026
with Senegal, noting the critical importance of accessible and
affordable clean water to all; and its significance within various
sectors in the clean energy transition, addressing climate change, and
the sustainable development agenda.  
  
**<u>Partnership to Accelerate Clean Energy (PACE)</u>**  
  
Under the U.S.-UAE Partnership to Accelerate Clean Energy (PACE)
initiative, the United States and the UAE are announcing several
initiatives that will continue our efforts to ensure a swift and smooth
transition towards clean energy. The United States and United Arab
Emirates remain committed to investing together in Africa and working to
end energy poverty across sub-Saharan Africa.  Today, the UAE-based
Averi Finance and AMEA Power are both private sector partners under the
U.S.-led Power Africa Initiative, joining an existing partnership with
UAE-based company Phanes. As private sector partners, these firms will
be offered tailored assistance from transaction advisors and technical
experts and can benefit from services offered by participating U.S.
government departments and agencies.  
  
To support the Power Africa initiative, Averi Finance intends to
facilitate $5 billion in investments, build 3GW of power generation
projects, construct over 3,000 kilometers of transmission or
distribution lines, establish over 500,000 new home and business
connections, and aim for a CO2 equivalent reduction or avoidance of 90
million tons.  AMEA Power and Power Africa have recently entered into a
partnership to accelerate power projects.  AMEA Power is targeting 5GW
of renewable energy capacity in Africa by 2030, and to realize this
target, intends to mobilize $5 billion in capital.   
  
Additionally, under PACE, ADNOC has announced a 35 percent stake in
ExxonMobil’s proposed low-carbon hydrogen and ammonia production
facility in Baytown, Texas.  This facility aims to produce up to
approximately 900,000 tons of low-carbon ammonia per year, enabling the
transition to cleaner fuels in hard-to-abate sectors.  Plynth Energy – a
recently established Abu Dhabi government-owned early-stage fund focused
on fusion technologies and supply chains – invested in the U.S. company
Zap Energy, which plans to build scalable and commercially-viable fusion
energy.  This investment will help fund the further development of Zap
Energy’s small-format commercial fusion technology. Zap Energy is a
participant in the U.S. Department of Energy’s (DOE) Milestone-Based
Fusion Development Program, and will receive DOE funding based on
reaching development milestones to support the design of a fusion pilot
plant.  
  
Lastly, as two of over 155 participants in the Global Methane Pledge,
the U.S. and the UAE will accelerate their respective domestic methane
reductions, work together to support countries undertaking methane
abatement, and call on others to do the same by advancing methane
reduction projects, strengthening methane standards and regulations,
addressing methane super emitter events, and identifying appropriate
financing for methane reduction.  
  
**<u>Partners in Space Exploration</u>**  
  
As founding nation members of the Artemis Accords, His Highness
President Sheikh Mohamed bin Zayed and President Biden reinforced the
U.S. and UAE’s groundbreaking cooperation in space, the future of human
exploration, and our shared interest in deepening our understanding of
the universe.   
  
The leaders recalled the role of this partnership in the historic launch
of the first Arab probe to Mars, the Hope Probe in 2021, and the
resulting and ongoing global scientific collaboration and contribution
to the study of Mars’ atmosphere.  This strategic partnership in deep
space missions is further exemplified by the UAE Space Agency’s
announcement of the Emirates Mission to the Asteroid Belt, the first
multi-asteroid tour and landing mission to the main belt, with the
partner, Laboratory for Atmospheric and Space Physics at the University
of Colorado Boulder.  
  
The leaders highlighted the January 2024 Mohammed bin Rashid Space
Center agreement with NASA for the Center to provide an airlock for
Gateway, humanity’s first space station to orbit the Moon supported by
NASA’s missions for long-term Moon exploration under the Artemis
Program.  The airlock will allow crew and equipment transfers
to-and-from the habitable environment of Gateway’s pressurized modules
to the vacuum of space.  This agreement will also enable the first
Emirati astronaut to fly to the Gateway for joint exploration of the
Moon.   
  
This cooperation builds on NASA and the UAE’s previous human spaceflight
collaboration.  In 2019, Hazaa Al Mansouri became the first Emirati
astronaut to fly to space during a visit to the International Space
Station (ISS), where he worked with NASA to perform experiments and
educational outreach.  A second Emirati astronaut, Sultan Al Neyadi,
launched to the ISS in 2023, where he participated in the floating
laboratory’s scientific research to advance human knowledge and improve
life on Earth.  The leaders welcomed continued training of astronauts,
including two Emirati astronaut candidates in training at the Johnson
Space Center, as well as ongoing work on Mars research and scientific
studies to support mutual exploration goals.  
  
Sharing the common spirit and ambition of humanity’s journey in space,
the leaders reaffirmed the principles of the Artemis Accords to explore
and use outer space for peaceful purposes and usher in a new era of
exploration, as well as obligations under the Outer Space Treaty,
including the requirement that countries not place in orbit around the
Earth any objects carrying nuclear weapons or any other kind of weapons
of mass destruction.  
  
**<u>Partners in Security and Defense</u>**  
  
His Highness President Sheikh Mohamed and President Biden praised the
strong security and defense partnership with the UAE.  President Biden
strongly affirmed the United States’ commitment to the United Arab
Emirates’ security and territorial defense, and to facilitating its
ability to obtain necessary capabilities to defend its people and
territory against external threats.  The leaders reaffirmed their
commitment to a strong bilateral security and defense relationship and
to expanding defense and security cooperation to bolster joint defense
capabilities against external threats, including through the Department
of Defense’s State Partnership Program.  
  
The leaders affirmed a shared vision of an interconnected, peaceful,
tolerant, and prosperous region as outlined by President Biden during
the GCC+3 Summit Meeting in Jeddah, Saudi Arabia, on July 16, 2022. 
They reviewed the proud legacy of standing shoulder-to-shoulder, in
peace and in conflict, including the UAE’s support for American-led
counterterrorism missions since the attacks in New York, Pennsylvania,
and Washington on September 11, 2001, to deter threats, de-escalate
conflicts, and reduce tensions globally.  Specifically, the leaders
recalled the United States and the United Arab Emirates standing
alongside each other in the global coalition against Da’esh, and prior
conflicts: Somalia, the Balkans, Iraq, Afghanistan, and Libya.  
  
The leaders reviewed ongoing initiatives and investments in advanced
systems that have made the United Arab Emirates one of the most capable
U.S. military partners in the region, in addition to a robust schedule
of bilateral and multilateral exercises.  They underscored the
importance of strengthening efforts to combat regional threats, advance
counterterrorism initiatives, reinforce maritime security and
counter-piracy efforts, increase security cooperation, and intercept
illicit shipments of weaponry and technology.   
  
The leaders discussed deepening investment in U.S. defense systems and
acknowledged that military-to-military cooperation with the United Arab
Emirates’ armed services helps ensure interoperability with the United
States through the provision of advanced defense articles and services. 
They further decided to explore potential investment in our most
advanced defense systems and to maintain regular exchanges to deepen
partnership in research and development.   
  
The leaders reaffirmed the 2017 Defense Cooperation Agreement, an
important step for both countries that underscored their vital and
longstanding collaboration in defeating terrorist groups, such as Da’esh
and al-Qaida, securing regional stability, and combatting threats
against their common interests including terrorist financing.  They
underscored the importance of the annual Joint Military Dialogue as the
foremost bilateral defense forum for advancing the U.S.-UAE defense
partnership, including reviewing shared security interests, as well as
discussing strategic objectives for the relationship and challenges in
the region, such as maritime security, counter-piracy, counterterrorism
cooperation, and domain awareness in the Middle East, the Indian Ocean,
and East Africa.  They further noted the recognition by the Security
Council in Resolution 2686 that hate speech, racism, racial
discrimination, xenophobia, related forms of intolerance, gender
discrimination and acts of extremism can contribute to driving the
outbreak, escalation and recurrence of conflict.     
  
**<u>Designation as a Major Defense Partner of the United States</u>**  
  
Acknowledging the U.S. and UAE’s deepening security partnership and
cooperation in advanced technology and acquisition, shared interest in
preventing conflict and de-escalation, President Biden today recognized
the United Arab Emirates as a Major Defense Partner of the United
States, joined by only India, to further enhance defense cooperation and
security in the Middle East, East Africa, and the Indian Ocean regions.
 This unique designation as a Major Defense Partner will allow for
unprecedented cooperation through joint training, exercises, and
military-to-military collaboration, between the military forces of the
United States, the UAE, and India, as well as other common military
partners, in furtherance of regional stability.  
  
Both leaders committed to close and sustained cooperation among our
militaries.   
  
**<u>Partners in</u>** **<u>a Stable, Integrated, and Prosperous Middle
East and Wider Region</u>**  
  
The leaders stressed the importance of reaching a peaceful solution to
the dispute over the three islands, Greater Tunb, Lesser Tunb, and Abu
Musa, through bilateral negotiations or the International Court of
Justice, in accordance with the rules of international law including the
UN Charter.  
  
The leaders discussed persisting and emerging threats to peace and
stability in the Middle East and the wider region.  They renewed their
commitment to upholding international law, particularly international
humanitarian law, work with parties to resolve conflicts and protect
civilians, and to provide urgently needed aid to alleviate human
suffering.  They reiterated the importance of sustainable and enduring
solutions to the security threats in the region, including those posed
by non-state terrorist actors.  They discussed the enduring importance
of the Abraham Accords and continuing on the path of peace, integration,
and prosperity in the region.  
  
The leaders discussed the war in Gaza. They underscored their commitment
to continue working together towards ending the conflict, calling for a
lasting and sustainable ceasefire and the release of hostages and
detainees in accordance with the United Nations Security Council
Resolution (UNSCR) 2735, and affirmed that all sides to the conflict
must adhere to their obligations under international humanitarian law.
President Biden commended the UAE’s extraordinary humanitarian efforts
in Gaza, which have been critical in addressing the humanitarian crisis,
including through the launch of a maritime corridor for movement of aid,
opening a field hospital in Gaza, and supporting evacuations of wounded
civilians and cancer patients.  
  
The two leaders emphasized the ongoing need for the urgent, unhindered,
and sustained delivery of life-saving humanitarian assistance, at a
scale commensurate with the growing needs among the civilian population
throughout Gaza.  They called on all parties to ensure the safety,
security, and sustained access of aid workers to all those in need, and
to create the conditions needed to facilitate an effective humanitarian
response in Gaza.  
  
His Highness President Sheikh Mohamed commended the mediation efforts by
the United States, along with Egypt and Qatar, to reach a lasting and
sustainable ceasefire and hostage release deal to help end the war in
Gaza.  His Highness also echoed the principles laid out by President
Biden on May 31, 2024, and stressed the importance of building on this
proposal in order to create a serious political horizon for negotiation.
 To that end, the leaders discussed a path to stabilization and recovery
that responds to the humanitarian crisis, establishes law and order, and
lays the groundwork for responsible governance.  The leaders expressed
their commitment to the two-State solution, wherein a sovereign and
contiguous Palestinian state lives side-by-side in peace and security
with Israel, as the only way to resolve the Israeli-Palestinian conflict
in accordance with the internationally-recognized parameters and the
Arab Peace Initiative.  They stressed the need to refrain from all
unilateral measures that undermine the two-State solution, and to
preserve the historic status quo of Jerusalem’s holy sites, recognizing
the special role of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan in this regard.  
  
On the conflict in Sudan, the leaders expressed their deep concern over
the tragic impact the violence has had on the Sudanese people and on
neighboring countries.  Both leaders expressed alarm at the millions of
individuals who have been displaced by the war, the hundreds of
thousands experiencing famine, and the atrocities committed by the
belligerents against the civilian population.  They stressed that there
can be no military solution to the conflict in Sudan and underscored
their firm and unwavering position on the imperative for concrete and
immediate action to achieve a lasting cessation of hostilities, the
return to the political process, and transition to civilian-led
governance.  
  
Both leaders reaffirmed their shared commitment to de-escalate the
conflict, alleviate the suffering of the people of Sudan, ensure
humanitarian assistance reaches the Sudanese people, and prevent Sudan
from attracting transnational terrorist networks once again. Noting
their shared concern about the risk of imminent atrocities, particularly
as fighting continues in Darfur, they underscored that all parties to
the conflict must comply with their obligations under international
humanitarian law, and all individuals and groups that commit war crimes
must be held accountable.  The leaders emphasized that the priority
right now must be the protection of civilians, particularly women,
children and the elderly, securing humanitarian pauses in order to scale
up and facilitate the movement of humanitarian assistance into the
country and across conflict lines, and ensuring the delivery of aid to
those in need, especially to the most vulnerable.  
  
**<u>Partners in Cyberspace</u>**  
  
The leaders emphasized that safety and stability in cyberspace is
critical for digital economic growth and development, and reaffirmed
their commitment to an open, interoperable, secure, and reliable
internet, underpinned by the multistakeholder model of internet
governance.   
  
They committed to deepen cooperation on cybersecurity and to enhance
cyber collaboration to protect critical infrastructure, counter
malicious cyber activity by state and non-state actors, and noted that
the UAE’s significant contributions to the International Counter
Ransomware Initiative reflects the strength of our cooperation.  The
leaders committed to promote stability in cyberspace based on the
applicability of international law including the United Nations Charter,
the promotion of voluntary norms of responsible state behavior during
peacetime, and the development and implementation of confidence building
measures between states.   
  
**<u>Looking Forward</u>**  
  
The United States and the United Arab Emirates are both entrepreneurial
nations, joined together by a relentless focus on the future.  Our
aspirations are rooted in a common resolve to pursue innovative
partnerships in new fields, including AI, food security, infrastructure
investment, and supply chain resilience, even as we continue to
strengthen the foundational element of our partnership: our longstanding
people-to-people ties.  These connections between our countries drive
progress and expand horizons, from clean energy technologies, to AI,
defense cooperation, space exploration, and ongoing coordination across
priority areas of science, education, and culture.  This first-ever
official visit by a President of the United Arab Emirates to the United
States sets a new foundation for our countries’ cooperation for decades
to come

\###
