---
date: '2024-09-23'
modified_time: 2024-09-23 13:38:38-04:00
published_time: 2024-09-23 13:38:37-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/09/23/fact-sheet-president-biden-commemorates-historic-climate-legacy-during-climate-week-nyc/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: President\_Biden Commemorates Historic Climate Legacy during Climate\
  \ Week\_NYC"
---
 
*President Biden will deliver remarks tomorrow highlighting his climate,
conservation, clean energy, and environmental justice agenda, which is
lowering costs, creating good-paying and union jobs, and reducing
harmful emissions*

**Meanwhile, House Republicans continue reckless attempts to roll back
climate, conservation, and clean energy investments**

When President Biden took office, he pledged to restore America’s
climate leadership at home and abroad. Every day since, the Biden-Harris
Administration has led and delivered on the most ambitious climate,
conservation, clean energy, and environmental justice agenda in history,
including securing the largest ever climate investment and unleashing a
clean energy manufacturing boom that has attracted hundreds of billions
of dollars in private sector investment; created hundreds of thousands
of new clean energy jobs; and lowered energy costs for families while
delivering cleaner air and water for communities across the country.

As business leaders, government officials, young people, and other
advocates from around the world gather in New York City to participate
in Climate Week, tomorrow **President Biden will deliver remarks in New
York City highlighting his Administration’s unprecedented progress in
tackling the climate crisis, cutting energy costs for everyday
Americans, and creating good-paying union jobs.**

Meanwhile, as President Biden and Vice President Harris continue to
implement their Investing in America agenda, many Congressional
Republicans continue to deny the impacts of climate change and are
actively working to roll back this Administration’s historic and urgent
climate investments – in fact, House Republicans have voted more than 50
times to repeal parts of President Biden’s climate investments. The
contrast couldn’t be clearer.

From replacing toxic lead pipes and modernizing our electric grid to
reducing air pollution and conserving our nation’s lands and waters,
President Biden and Vice President Harris have positioned America to
lead the global effort against climate change and protect the health,
safety, and economic vitality of our communities and our environment for
generations to come. 

**<u>Biden-Harris Administration’s Top Climate Accomplishments</u>**

**Deploying Clean, Affordable Electricity and Strengthening America’s
Power Grid  
**Through the [Inflation Reduction Act and Bipartisan Infrastructure
Law](https://www.energy.gov/policy/articles/investing-american-energy-significant-impacts-inflation-reduction-act-and),
President Biden has secured unprecedented investments in a clean power
sector, unleashing a boom in American solar, wind, battery storage,
nuclear, and other clean energy technologies that are creating
good-paying jobs and saving families money on utility bills. President
Biden’s Investing in America agenda is supporting the [U.S. offshore
wind
industry](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/09/05/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-hits-offshore-wind-milestone-continues-to-advance-clean-energy-opportunities/),
[transmission buildout and other power grid
upgrades](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/05/28/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-launches-federal-state-initiative-to-bolster-americas-power-grid/),
[residential solar for low-income
households](https://www.epa.gov/newsreleases/biden-harris-administration-announces-7-billion-solar-all-grants-deliver-residential),
investments in [clean
electricity](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/09/05/fact-sheet-president-biden-visits-westby-wisconsin-announces-7-3-billion-for-clean-affordable-reliable-electricity-for-rural-america-the-largest-investment-in-rural-electrification-since-the-ne/)
across [rural
America](https://www.usda.gov/media/press-releases/2023/05/16/biden-harris-administration-makes-historic-11-billion-investment),
[efficient
permitting](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/08/29/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-takes-action-to-deliver-more-projects-more-quickly-accelerates-federal-permitting/)
to get new projects built, and [American manufacturing of clean energy
technologies](https://www.energy.gov/invest). Since the start of the
Biden-Harris Administration, the US has added more than 100 gigawatts of
new clean energy – enough to power more than 25 million homes. Thanks to
the Inflation Reduction Act, clean energy project developers get access
to expanded tax incentives if they pay workers prevailing wages and
employ registered apprentices,  build their projects with domestic
content, or locate projects in historic energy communities—provisions
that are helping make more clean energy jobs good-paying and union jobs,
supporting American manufacturing, and driving clean energy investment
to the places that can benefit the most.

**   
Bolstering Climate Resilience and Adaptation**

The Biden-Harris Administration is taking a whole-of-government approach
to addressing climate impacts, including through [Federal climate
adaptation
planning](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/06/20/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-releases-agency-climate-adaptation-plans-demonstrates-leadership-in-building-climate-resilience/)
and integrating consideration of climate impacts into Federal policies,
programs, and funding. The Administration released a [National Climate
Resilience
Framework](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/09/28/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-hosts-first-ever-white-house-climate-resilience-summit-and-releases-national-climate-resilience-framework/)
and President Biden [secured more than $50
billion](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/06/19/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-makes-historic-investments-to-build-community-climate-resilience/) for
climate resilience and adaptation investments that
are [upgrading](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=e64acc8cc5&e=ebcdb14f7c) aging
roads and bridges, including critical evacuation
routes; [restoring](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=33f8cd96dd&e=ebcdb14f7c) critical
waterways, forests, and urban greenspaces; building forest health and
reducing wildfire risk; bolstering [water
infrastructure](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=3fee1441b0&e=ebcdb14f7c) and
drought resilience across the American West; [reducing the risk to
federal assets from future
floods](https://www.whitehouse.gov/ceq/news-updates/2024/04/11/a-new-tool-to-help-plan-for-and-protect-against-floods/); and
[modernizing our electric
grid](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=3b3d5549c0&e=ebcdb14f7c).
Through portals like [Climate Mapping for Resilience and Adaptation
(CMRA)](https://resilience.climate.gov/) and
[Heat.gov](https://www.heat.gov/), the Administration is equipping
communities with the information and resources they need to assess
climate risks and implement adaptation actions in their communities.
With [historic
investments](https://www.doi.gov/pressreleases/biden-harris-administration-announces-major-milestone-protect-short-term-stability)
from the President’s Investing in America agenda, the Administration
stabilized the short-term security of the Colorado River and is making
investments to ensure the long-term stability of the Colorado River
Basin.  
**   
Accelerating a Clean Transportation Future**

Last year, the Biden-Harris Administration released the [National
Blueprint for Transportation
Decarbonization](https://www.transportation.gov/priorities/climate-and-sustainability/us-national-blueprint-transportation-decarbonization),
a landmark strategy for eliminating nearly all greenhouse gas emissions
from the U.S. transportation sector by 2050. The Administration’s
Bipartisan Infrastructure Law and Inflation Reduction Act invest tens of
billions to
decarbonize [maritime](https://www.epa.gov/ports-initiative/cleanports),
 [trucking](https://www.epa.gov/inflation-reduction-act/clean-heavy-duty-vehicle-program), [transit](https://www.transit.dot.gov/lowno), [rail](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/11/06/fact-sheet-president-biden-advances-vision-for-world-class-passenger-rail-by-delivering-billions-in-new-funding/#:~:text=Last%20month%2C%20FRA%20announced%20more,Consolidated%20Rail%20Infrastructure%20and%20Safety),
and [aviation](https://www.irs.gov/credits-deductions/businesses/sustainable-aviation-fuel-credit),
all while making communities
more [walkable](https://www.transportation.gov/grants/SS4A), [bikeable](https://www.fhwa.dot.gov/bipartisan-infrastructure-law/ta.cfm),
and [connected](https://www.transportation.gov/grants/rcnprogram/about-rcp).
The Bipartisan Infrastructure Law is also
[investing](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/01/19/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-new-actions-to-cut-electric-vehicle-costs-for-americans-and-continue-building-out-a-convenient-reliable-made-in-america-ev-charging-network/)
$7.5 billion to build a nationwide network of convenient, reliable
electric vehicle (EV) charging infrastructure along corridors and within
communities, and $5 billion to put [clean school
buses](https://www.epa.gov/newsreleases/biden-harris-administration-announces-nearly-1b-awards-clean-school-buses-across)
on our roads. In addition, the
President [rallied](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/08/05/fact-sheet-president-biden-announces-steps-to-drive-american-leadership-forward-on-clean-cars-and-trucks/) automakers
and autoworkers around a historic goal of having electric vehicles
account for at least 50% of new passenger vehicles sold by 2030. To
support this goal while driving down consumer costs, the Administration
secured [tax
credits](https://home.treasury.gov/news/press-releases/jy1868) that
reduce the cost of new or used clean vehicles by thousands of dollars
directly at the dealership as well as tax credits to deploy EV charging
and alternative fueling infrastructure to support clean vehicle
deployment needs for individuals and businesses within rural and low
income communities. The Administration is also leading by example to
electrify the federal vehicle fleet, [including 66,000 U.S. Postal
Service delivery
vehicles](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/12/20/biden-%e2%81%a0harris-administration-announces-historic-investment-to-electrify-u-s-postal-service-fleet/)
over five years.

**   
Cutting Energy Costs and Pollution at Homes, Schools, and in
Communities**

Last year, 3.4 million American families
[saved](https://home.treasury.gov/news/featured-stories/the-inflation-reduction-act-saving-american-households-money-while-reducing-climate-change-and-air-pollution)
$8.4 billion from IRA home energy tax credits for heat pumps,
insulation, solar, and other clean energy technologies, and today states
across the US are rolling out IRA rebates of up to $14,000 per household
to help low- and middle-income families afford cost-saving electric
appliances and energy efficiency improvements. The President
[established](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/04/04/biden-harris-administration-announces-historic-20-billion-in-awards-to-expand-access-to-clean-energy-and-climate-solutions-and-lower-energy-costs-for-communities-across-the-nation/#:~:text=Today%2C%20Vice%20President%20Kamala%20Harris,disadvantaged%20communities%2C%20as%20part%20of)
a $20 billion national clean energy financing network that will support
tens of thousands of clean energy projects and cost-saving retrofits,
reducing or avoiding up to 40 million metric tons of carbon pollution
annually over the next seven years. The Biden-Harris Administration has
also [strengthened energy efficiency
standards](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/12/19/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-takes-more-than-100-actions-in-2022-to-strengthen-energy-efficiency-standards-and-save-families-money/) to
save households and businesses money, with standards updated by DOE for
dozens of appliances
[expected](https://www.energy.gov/articles/doe-finalizes-four-consensus-based-efficiency-standards-save-americans-billions-utility)
to provide nearly [$1 trillion in consumer
savings](https://www.energy.gov/articles/doe-finalizes-efficiency-standards-residential-refrigerators-and-freezers-closing-out) over
30 years, saving the average household [more than $100 a
year](https://appliance-standards.org/document/study-bidens-appliance-efficiency-standards-will-save-households-over-100-annually)
while also reducing greenhouse gas emissions by more than 2 billion
metric tons. Schools across the country are using IRA clean energy tax
credits and elective pay to install solar, energy storage, and ground
source heat pumps.**  
  
Revitalizing American Manufacturing for the Clean Economy**

President Biden’s Investing in America agenda has helped catalyze
historic manufacturing growth, with factories opening across the nation.
The private sector has committed over [$910
billion](https://invest.gov/) in investments in American manufacturing
and clean energy, including sectors central to our industrial strength.
The President’s agenda is helping to make U.S. manufacturing the
cleanest and most competitive in the world. The Inflation Reduction Act
is investing more than [$6
billion](https://www.energy.gov/oced/industrial-demonstrations-program-0) to
slash climate pollution and support workers and community health at U.S.
factories producing the steel, aluminum, cement, and other materials
that form the backbone of our economy, [nearly $2
billion](https://www.energy.gov/mesc/domestic-manufacturing-conversion-grant-program)
to support shuttered or at-risk auto facilities retain or re-hire
workers to support manufacturing in the electric vehicle supply chain,
over [$3
billion](https://www.energy.gov/articles/biden-harris-administration-announces-over-3-billion-support-americas-battery)
to bolster battery manufacturing, and over $4 billion through the
[Federal Buy Clean Initiative](https://www.sustainability.gov/buyclean/)
to bolster markets to buy cleaner materials. The Biden-Harris
Administration’s historic steps to reduce super-polluting
[methane](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/12/Methane-Action-Plan-2023-Topper.pdf)
and
[hydrofluorocarbons](https://www.epa.gov/newsreleases/biden-harris-administration-takes-latest-step-national-phasedown-climate-damaging)
are also harnessing American innovation and creating good-paying union
jobs.  **  
   
Advancing Environmental Justice**

Since Day One, the Biden-Harris Administration has prioritized a
whole-of-government approach to environmental justice. The President
signed a [historic Executive
Order](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/04/21/fact-sheet-president-biden-signs-executive-order-to-revitalize-our-nations-commitment-to-environmental-justice-for-all/) that
mobilizes the federal government to bring clean energy and healthy
environments to all and mitigate harm to those who have suffered from
pollution and environmental burdens like climate change. Through
the [Justice40
Initiative](https://www.whitehouse.gov/environmentaljustice/justice40/),
over 500 programs across 19 federal agencies are being reimagined and
transformed to maximize the benefits of President Biden’s unprecedented
investments – from clean energy projects to floodwater protections to
wastewater infrastructure – to communities that need them most. At the
same time, the Administration is taking unprecedented action to protect
communities from [PFAS
pollution](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/04/10/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-takes-critical-action-to-protect-communities-from-pfas-pollution-in-drinking-water/), [accelerate
Superfund and brownfield
cleanups](https://www.epa.gov/newsreleases/biden-harris-administration-announces-over-1-billion-start-new-cleanup-projects-and), [tighten
standards](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/03/14/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-takes-action-to-protect-communities-from-dangers-of-ethylene-oxide-pollution-and/) for
hazardous air pollutants, and [enhance air quality
enforcement](https://www.epa.gov/enforcement/national-enforcement-and-compliance-initiatives).
To ensure the voices, perspectives, and lived experiences of communities
with environmental justice concerns are heard in the White House and
reflected in federal priorities, policies, investments, and
decision-making, President Biden also created the [White House
Environmental Justice Advisory
Council](https://www.whitehouse.gov/environmentaljustice/white-house-environmental-justice-advisory-council/).  
**   
Delivering Clean Water and Replacing Lead Pipes**

President Biden and Vice President Harris are fighting to ensure a
future where every American has access to clean, safe water. The
President’s Bipartisan Infrastructure Law invests over $50 billion in
upgrading the nation’s water infrastructure – the largest investment in
clean water in American history. The Administration has already launched
over 1,700 projects to expand access to clean drinking water, replace
lead pipes, improve wastewater and sanitation infrastructure,
and [remove PFAS pollution in
water](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/04/10/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-takes-critical-action-to-protect-communities-from-pfas-pollution-in-drinking-water/). The
Biden-Harris Administration invested **over $1 billion from the
President’s Investing in America agenda to specifically** accelerate
[the delivery of drinking water and community sanitation infrastructure
projects in Indian
Country](https://ceq.sites.eop.gov/CEQCOM/Comms%20Projects/Biden%20Admin%20CEQ%20Comms/Paper%20Edits/FACT%20SHEET:%20At%20White%20House%20Water%20Summit,%20Biden-Harris%20Administration%20Announces%20Bold%20National%20Goal%20to%20Protect%20and%20Restore%20Freshwater%20Resources,%20Delivers%20Over%20$1%20Billion%20for%20Tribal%20Clean%20Water%20Projects%20%7C%20The%20White%20House),
where almost 50% of communities are lacking this basic human right.
[President Biden has also made a
commitment](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/05/02/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-3-billion-to-replace-toxic-lead-pipes-and-deliver-clean-drinking-water-to-communities-across-the-country/) to
replace every toxic lead pipe in the country within a decade, protecting
families from lead poisoning that can irreversibly harm brain
development in children.

**  
Empowering Every Community to Advance Climate Solutions**

The historic set of federal actions that the Biden-Harris Administration
has taken are supporting communities across the country in seizing
opportunities in the clean energy economy. The Administration has
mobilized billions of dollars in investment in the [energy communities
and workers](https://energycommunities.gov/) that have powered our
nation for generations. To help young people access skills-based
training for good-paying careers in the clean energy and climate
resilience economy, the Administration
[launched](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/09/20/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-launches-american-climate-corps-to-train-young-people-in-clean-energy-conservation-and-climate-resilience-skills-create-good-paying-jobs-and-tackle-the-clima/)
the [American Climate Corps](https://www.acc.gov/), which will mobilize
a new, diverse generation of more than 20,000 Americans. And with direct
support from the Administration’s Investing in America Agenda, more than
45 states and more than 200 Tribes, territories, and metro areas have
now developed their own [Climate Action
Plans](https://www.epa.gov/newsreleases/biden-harris-administration-announces-43-billion-grants-community-driven-solutions-cut).
All of these foundational efforts will support climate solutions in the
near-term and for years to come, helping the nation achieve the goal of
reducing climate pollution by 50-52% below 2005 levels in 2030 and
reaching a net-zero economy by no later than 2050. **  
  
**

**Conserving our Lands and Waters**

President Biden’s America the Beautiful initiative is supporting and
accelerating voluntary, locally led conservation and restoration efforts
across the country, and with 42 million acres already protected under
President Biden, the U.S. is on track to meet the first-ever national
goal to conserve at least 30 percent of our lands and waters by 2030.
The Biden-Harris Administration has established or expanded [eight
national
monuments](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/08/08/fact-sheet-president-biden-designates-baaj-nwaavjo-itah-kukveni-ancestral-footprints-of-the-grand-canyon-national-monument/)
and [restored protections for three
more](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/03/21/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-takes-new-action-to-conserve-and-restore-americas-lands-and-waters/);
created [five new national wildlife
refuges](https://www.doi.gov/pressreleases/interior-department-establishes-everglades-gulf-conservation-area-conserve-habitat) and
significantly [expanded five
more](https://www.doi.gov/pressreleases/interior-department-announces-expansion-four-national-wildlife-refuges-conserve);
established two new national marine sanctuaries and begun the process to
designate or expand protections for five more; created one new national
estuarine research reserve; protected the [Boundary Waters of
Minnesota](https://www.doi.gov/pressreleases/biden-harris-administration-protects-boundary-waters-area-watershed),
the nation’s most visited wilderness area; safeguarded [Bristol
Bay](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/05/11/remarks-by-president-biden-on-the-protection-of-bristol-bay-and-national-conservation/) in
southwest Alaska from the impacts of mining; protected the Arctic Ocean
from oil and gas development; and withdrawn [Chaco
Canyon](https://www.doi.gov/pressreleases/biden-harris-administration-protects-chaco-region-tribal-cultural-sites-development) in
New Mexico and [Thompson
Divide](https://www.doi.gov/pressreleases/biden-harris-administration-finalizes-protections-thompson-divide) in
Colorado from further oil and gas leasing which will protect pristine
lands and thousands of sacred sites. The Administration also directed
the conservation of old-growth and mature forests, put conservation on
equal footing with development in managing our public lands, launched
the *America the Beautiful* [Freshwater
Challenge](https://www.whitehouse.gov/ceq/the-america-the-beautiful-freshwater-challenge/)
*to* **protect, restore, and reconnect 8 million acres of wetlands and
100,000 miles of our nation’s river and streams,** protected vast areas
of caribou habitat in the Western Arctic for future generations, and is
advancing the Chumash Heritage National Marine Sanctuary off the coast
of California.**  
   
Rallying Leaders of the World’s Largest Economies to Raise Global
Climate Ambition**

President Biden has restored America’s climate leadership at home and
abroad. Under his leadership, the Administration is [securing
commitments from more than 155 countries to reduce methane
emissions](https://www.whitehouse.gov/climate/#:~:text=Leveraging%20Domestic%20Ambition%20to%20Rally%20Global%20Peers) by
at least 30 percent by 2030; successfully galvanizing other countries at
COP28 to commit, for the first time, to transition away from unabated
fossil fuels, stop building new unabated coal capacity globally, and
triple renewable energy globally by 2030 and nuclear energy by 2050;
launching a new Clean Energy Supply Chain Collaborative to work with
international partners to diversify supply chains that are critical to a
clean and secure energy transition; mobilizing other governments
to follow the U.S. lead and commit to achieve net-zero government
emissions by 2050 through a new [Net-Zero Government
Initiative](https://www.sustainability.gov/federalsustainabilityplan/net-zero-initiative.html);
and becoming a world leader in innovative debt-for-nature swaps that
have helped countries restructure over $2 billion in debt and unlock
hundreds of millions of new financing for nature and climate.

**Accelerating Federal Permitting to Deliver Clean Energy and
Infrastructure More Quickly**

The Biden-Harris Administration has [taken
action](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/08/29/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-takes-action-to-deliver-more-projects-more-quickly-accelerates-federal-permitting/)
to accelerate clean energy infrastructure and deliver other critical
projects by securing and directing long overdue resources to improve and
accelerate permitting and environmental reviews. The Administration also
finalized the [Bipartisan Permitting Reform Implementation
Rule](https://www.whitehouse.gov/ceq/news-updates/2024/04/30/biden-harris-administration-finalizes-reforms-to-modernize-environmental-reviews-accelerate-americas-clean-energy-future-simplify-the-process-to-rebuild-our-nations-infrastructure/) to
**address climate change, protect public health, encourage better
environmental outcomes, and promote meaningful public input on Federal
decisions and projects.**

**<u>House Republicans Continue Attempting to Roll Back Climate
Protections</u>**

As President Biden and Vice President Harris implement the most
ambitious and impactful climate and conservation agenda in history,
House Republicans are taking action *right now* that would roll back
investments in climate, clean energy, and public health. House
Republicans’ efforts to gut climate protections through a variety of
avenues – including appropriations bills, Congressional Review Act
resolutions, and other legislative actions – would raise consumer energy
costs, undermine public health protections, worsen the impacts of
extreme weather events, and destroy environmental safeguards for our
lands and waters.

Ongoing attempts by Congressional Republicans to roll back climate and
environmental protections would:

Raise Consumer Energy Costs, including by:

-   Attempting to
    [eliminate](https://www.congress.gov/amendment/118th-congress/house-amendment/1105?s=a&r=18)
    funding for the development of U.S. manufacturing capabilities in
    vehicles, trains and locomotives, maritime vessels including
    offshore wind support vessels, and aircraft.
-   Threatening to limit or eliminate tax credits and rebates for
    families, including for energy saving home improvements and
    [appliance upgrades and tax credits for home efficiency projects,
    rooftop solar panel installation, new and used electric vehicle
    purchases](https://www.congress.gov/bill/118th-congress/house-bill/2811?q=%7B%22search%22%3A%22limit+save+grow%22%7D&s=2&r=1),
    and more.
-   Blocking progress on programs that
    [support](https://www.congress.gov/bill/118th-congress/house-bill/1023)
    residential solar projects to reduce utility bills in low-income and
    disadvantaged communities, and [clean energy tax
    credits](https://www.congress.gov/bill/118th-congress/house-bill/2811)
    that deliver economic benefits from new projects and factories in
    communities across the country.
-   Taking steps to
    [undermine](https://www.congress.gov/bill/118th-congress/house-joint-resolution/148/text)
    clean vehicle deployment by eliminating guidance implementing tax
    credits for new and used clean vehicles.
-   Targeting
    [commonsense](https://www.congress.gov/congressional-report/118th-congress/house-report/452/1)
    energy efficiency
    [standards](https://www.congress.gov/bill/118th-congress/house-bill/7673/text/ih)
    for appliances that are expected to deliver $1 trillion in consumer
    savings over 30 years

Gut Public Health Protections, including by:

-   Trying to overturn Biden-Harris Administration rules that protect
    communities from coal plants’ [water
    pollution](https://www.congress.gov/bill/118th-congress/house-joint-resolution/151?s=3&r=2),
    [air
    pollution](https://www.congress.gov/bill/118th-congress/house-joint-resolution/150?s=3&r=3),
    and [waste
    disposal](https://www.congress.gov/bill/118th-congress/house-joint-resolution/174).
-   Trying to
    [overturn](https://www.congress.gov/bill/118th-congress/house-joint-resolution/161)
    a Biden-Harris Administration rule that will reduce by 96% the
    number of people with elevated cancer risk near certain chemical
    plants, by reducing emissions of toxic chloroprene and ethylene
    oxide from those facilities.
-   Rolling back the [Clean School
    Bus](https://www.congress.gov/bill/118th-congress/house-bill/4821/all-info)
    program that will reduce climate pollution and provide cleaner air
    for our nation’s children.
-   Undermining clean air progress by trying to overturn rules that
    reduce pollution from [power
    plants](https://www.congress.gov/bill/118th-congress/house-joint-resolution/163?s=1&r=4),
    [cars](https://www.congress.gov/bill/118th-congress/house-joint-resolution/136?s=1&r=31)
    and
    [trucks](https://www.congress.gov/bill/118th-congress/house-joint-resolution/133?s=1&r=34)
    , and [industrial
    sources](https://www.congress.gov/bill/118th-congress/house-joint-resolution/128?s=1&r=39).
-   Taking steps [to
    block](https://docs.house.gov/meetings/AP/AP00/20240710/117503/BILLS-118-FC-AP-FY2025-AP00-FY25LHHSFullCommitteeMark.pdf)
    new Biden-Harris Administration rules to protect coal and other
    miners from toxic silica dust.

Destroy Protections for Our Lands and Waters, including by:

-   [Trying](https://www.congress.gov/bill/118th-congress/senate-bill/2820/text?s=1&r=60)
    to eliminate Presidential authority to establish national monuments
    altogether.
-   Working to
    [dismantle](https://appropriations.house.gov/sites/evo-subsites/republicans-appropriations.house.gov/files/evo-media-document/fy25-interior-environment-and-related-agencies-subcommittee-bill-summary.pdf)
    President Biden’s *America the Beautiful* Initiative.
-   Threatening to expose
    [cherished](https://www.congress.gov/bill/118th-congress/house-bill/6285)
    [landscapes](https://appropriations.house.gov/news/press-releases/committee-approves-fy25-interior-environment-and-related-agencies)
    to new drilling, including 13 million acres of special areas in the
    Western Arctic.
-   Planning to reduce
    [accountability](https://www.congress.gov/bill/118th-congress/house-joint-resolution/154)
    for oil and gas companies.

\###
