---
date: '2024-09-22'
modified_time: 2024-09-21 13:46:56-04:00
published_time: 2024-09-22 09:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/09/22/statement-from-vice-president-harris-on-the-anniversary-of-the-white-house-office-of-gun-violence-prevention/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Statement from Vice President Harris on the Anniversary of the White\_House\
  \ Office of Gun Violence\_Prevention"
---
 
I believe that every person in our nation must have the freedom to live
safe from gun violence. That is why President Biden and I have worked to
address the epidemic of gun violence with the urgency it demands by
enacting the Bipartisan Safer Communities Act – the most significant gun
safety law in nearly 30 years – and launching the first-ever White House
Office of Gun Violence Prevention.  

In the year since President Biden asked me to oversee the White House
Office of Gun Violence Prevention, our administration has improved and
expanded background checks by closing the gun show loophole and
implementing enhanced background checks for Americans under the age of
21. We have worked with law enforcement and courts to keep guns out of
the hands of abusive dating partners after we narrowed the boyfriend
loophole. We are also making progress on distributing the single largest
investment in youth mental health in history, $1 billion for schools
across the country to hire and train more than 14,000 mental health
professionals who can help address the trauma of gun violence.
Additionally, our Office has been an unprecedented resource to states,
cities, and local communities – launching a Resource Center to help
states implement red flag laws, coordinating the first-ever federal
interagency response to mass shootings, releasing a Safer States Agenda
to help legislators pass commonsense gun safety laws, and helping
communities access our historic investments in community violence
intervention programs.

Our Office of Gun Violence Prevention has also supported, convened, and
worked alongside gun violence survivors, the families of those who have
lost loved ones to shootings, and other impacted individuals to tackle
the trauma caused by gun violence and share new solutions. As someone
who prosecuted homicide cases while District Attorney of San Francisco
and worked to get illegal firearms off the streets as Attorney General
of California, I know we have more work to do. State legislators and
members of Congress must have the courage to act by making background
checks universal, passing red flag and safe storage laws, enacting a ban
on bump stocks, and renewing the Assault Weapons Ban. Our administration
will also continue to implement the Bipartisan Safer Communities Act and
take additional executive action to support states, cities, and local
communities in their efforts to reduce gun violence. Having mourned with
families and consoled communities throughout the nation that have been
directly impacted by gun violence, I know we do not have a moment or a
life to spare.

\# \# \#
