---
date: '2024-09-05'
modified_time: 2024-09-04 23:33:07-04:00
published_time: 2024-09-05 05:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/09/05/background-press-call-by-deputy-chief-of-staff-natalie-quillian-and-secretary-of-agriculture-tom-vilsack-previewing-president-bidens-trip-to-wisconsin/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Background Press Call by Deputy Chief of Staff Natalie Quillian and Secretary\
  \ of Agriculture Tom Vilsack Previewing President\_Biden\u2019s Trip to\_Wisconsin"
---
 
Via Teleconference

12:04 P.M. EDT

MR. FERNÁNDEZ HERNÁNDEZ:  Good afternoon, everyone, and thank you for
joining today’s press call ahead of President Biden’s trip to Wisconsin
to discuss investments in rural electrification from his Investing in
America agenda.

This call will begin with on-the-record remarks from White House Deputy
Chief of Staff Natalie Quillian and Secretary of Agriculture Tom
Vilsack.

Afterwards, there will be a question-and-answer period.  It will be on
background and attributable to “senior administration officials.”

As a reminder, the contents of the call and related materials that you
will receive after the call will be embargoed until tomorrow, September
5th, at 5:00 a.m. Eastern.

With that, I will turn it over to Natalie.

MS. QUILLIAN:  Thanks, Angelo.  Hi, everybody, and thanks for joining us
today to talk about President Biden’s visit to Wisconsin tomorrow to
discuss how his Investing in America agenda continues to benefit
communities across the country.

Taking a step back, President Biden and Vice President Harris came to
office inheriting a series of cascading challenges — from a
once-in-a-generation pandemic and isolation on the world stage, crime
being up, and the s- — middle class being sidelined.

But the president and the vice president rejected conventional wisdom
that trickle-down economics was the best path for America.  Instead,
President Biden built the economy from the middle out and the bottom up,
and made sure that instead of providing tax breaks for companies that
shipped jobs overseas, he invested here in America and in Americans.

The president has promised to be a president for all Americans — from
small towns to big cities; blue, red, purple states; and places that,
for too long, have been overlooked and left out. 

And over the last three and a half years, he’s followed through on that
promise.

Today, because of the president’s historic Investing in America agenda —
which includes the American Rescue Plan, the Bipartisan Infrastructure
Law, the CHIPS and Science Act, and the Inflation Reduction Act —
opportunity is growing in communities across this country.

Wages are up, inflation is down, this administration has had the lowest
average unemployment rate of any administration in 50 years, and
manufacturing is making a comeback in communities across the country.

His agenda has spurred over $910 billion in private-sector manufacturing
and clean energy investments.  We’re building a clean energy economy
that is lowering costs for millions of families and businesses.  And we
are making the most inv- –ambitious investments in our infrastructure —
including high-speed Internet, clean water, and clean electricity — in a
generation.

Because of the president’s actions and his vision, Americans all across
the country are seeing and feeling a better, more prosperous future on
the horizon and a future of possibilities.

When the president travels to Wisconsin tomorrow, he will visit a
community near La Crosse, Wisconsin, where he visited about three years
ago.  And when he was there in 2021, he laid out his plans for a better
future.  And when he returns tomorrow, he will have delivered on so many
of those promises.

For example, in 2021 when he visited, he talked about repairing roads
and bridges and other infrastructure.  And he’s returning with having
passed the infrastructure law and launching 350 projects across
Wisconsin.

In 2021, he talked about eradicating lead pipes.  He’s returning after
announcing $9 billion to do just that, including $200 million in
Wisconsin.

And in 2021, he talked about dangerous chemicals — PFAS. And he’s
returning after having created the first-ever national PFAS standard.

And importantly, in 2021, he talked about the need for good-paying jobs
and opportunities in rural America and the need to address our climate
crisis.  And tomorrow, he will announce $7.3 billion from his Inflation
Reduction Act for clean, affordable, reliable electricity.   
  
It’s the largest investment in rural electrification since FDR’s
administration and will spur economic development and lower costs for
millions of American, and it will create 4,500 permanent jobs and 16,000
construction jobs.

He will hear from people on the ground about how these and other
investments from his agenda are changing their lives for the better. 
And it’s part of a broader effort that we’ve launched to hear directly
from different communities across the country who are benefitting from
the president’s Investing in America agenda and, as a result, have peace
of mind and more hope for the future.

The president kicked off this push yesterday when he spoke directly to
four local, community, and Tribal leaders and other Americans who are
seeing the tangible benefits of his agenda.  And his trips to Wisconsin
and Michigan this week will continue to highlight those stories.

And now I’d like to turn it over to Secretary Vilsack to talk more about
this historic investment in rural America.   
  

Secretary?

SECRETARY VILSACK:  Natalie, thank you very much.  I appreciate the
opportunity to be with all of you today.   
  
Looking very much forward to the announcement tomorrow.  It’s an
exciting announcement with a massive impact across 23 states to bring
the promise of clean energy and lower costs to approximately 5 million
rural households, representing 20 percent of the nation’s entire rural
household, as well as farms and businesses that are located in those 23
states. 

As Natalie indicated, as part of the president’s Investing in America
agenda, and as a result of the passage of the president’s Inflation
Reduction Act, USDA will be committing $7.3 billion to 16 awardees,
rural electric cooperatives, in those 23 states. 

This resource will leverage an additional $29 billion of private
investment, which, as Natalie indicated, is the largest investment in
rural electrification since 1936 and the New Deal. 

The impact of — of this investment cannot be overstated.   
  
Natalie referenced the 4,500 permanent jobs and the 16,000 construction
jobs, all of which will have good middle-class wages associated with
them.  But it’s also about clean energy: ten gigawatts of clean energy,
37- — over 3,700 megawatts of wind power, over 4,700 megawatts of solar
power, nearly 800 and — over 800 megawatts of nuclear power, and 357
watts of hydropower. 

All of this is designed not only to provide more reliant elec- —
electricity for those rural communities but will also result in a
43.7-million-ton annual reduction of greenhouse gas emissions as a
result of the clean energy future the president envisioned. 

In addition to all of the — the clean energy, there will also be nearly
1,900 megawatts of battery storage, which means greater resiliency
within the system. 

The president w- — specifically will have the opportunity to talk about
the New ERA funding of the Dairyland Power Cooperative in Wisconsin. 
This is a $573 million commitment that the USDA is making with the
Inflation Reduction Act resources in the form of a grant of nearly $471
million and a loan of nearly $102 million. 

This is going to establish an opportunity for this particular
cooperative to purchase — to — to finance eight power purchase
agreements, four solar installations, four wind power installations
across their service territory in Wisconsin.  This is an opportunity,
over the next 10 years, to lower the costs of electricity for the
customers of the Dairyland Cooperative by nearly 42 percent.

What is really interesting about this opportunity, in addition to the
investment USDA is making, is that the — the cooperative will also put
its own resources into this.  The total cost of the project will be a
little over $2 billion.

In addition, as part of the Inflation Reduction Act, the — the
cooperative will enter into a community benefit plan.  These benefit
plans are designed to provide direct assistance and — and help to
farmers who will benefit from this clean energy as well as connecting to
employment opportunities.  You’ll see the opportunity for
apprenticeships and training programs in order to build the workforce of
the future.

The New ERA program, which is the program that USDA is providing these
resources, has a companion program.  The New ERA program is available
only to the RECs, rural electric cooperatives.  But the Powering
Affordable Clean Energy program, the PACE program, is available to
municipal utilities as well as RECs. 

And the USDA has already made 19 awards of $665 million in that program
as well.  In addition, the USDA is also, as a result of the Inflation
Reduction Act and the Investing in America effort of the Biden-Harris
administration, we’ve invested in over 7,200 REAP grants.  About 4,500
of those REAP grants are being financed directly from Inflation
Reduction Act resources.  This is allowing farmers and ranchers and
producers and small-business owners to have an individual benefit of
clean renewable energy. 

I think it’s important that — to — to point out that this is all a
result of the funding that is being provided in the Inflation Reduction
Act. 

There are some in Congress who are suggesting that we need to condense
the timeframe in which these projects need to be completed and to — and
to essentially take some resources away from the Inflation Reduction Act
in order to reinvest in — in other farm bill programs.  Really deeply
concerned about that, because you can see the power of the New ERA
program and the PACE program and the opportunity for us to — over the
course of the next several years, to make investments in rural job
growth and in rural economic opportunity.

Excited about this opportunity, looking forward to the president’s
visit, and I think it’s an opportunity, as well, to talk about the
extraordinary investment that’s been made in rural America by the
Biden-Harris administration as part of the president’s Investing in
America initiative.

So, really, really important day.  I’m looking forward to it and excited
about the opportunity that this presents for — for rural places.

With that, I’ll turn it back to Angelo for any questions.

MR. FERNÁNDEZ HERNÁNDEZ:  Thank you, Secretary.  And thank you,
Natalie.   
  
Now we will move to the question-and-answer portion of the call.  As a
reminder, this will be on background and attributable to “senior
administration officials.”  Please use the “raise hand” function on Zoom
so that we may call on you.  When you are called on, please identify
yourself and your outlet. 

Okay.  We will start with Rachel.  You should be unmuted now.

Q    Hi.  Thanks for taking my question.  I was wondering, do you guys
know whether, you know, this power — this clean power would have
otherwise been generated without this award?  And can you detail more
about that?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Well, I’ll take a first stab at that
but maybe ask \[senior administration official\], who’s on the call, to
amplify. 

I think it’s fair to say that the extent and nature of the investment
that’s being made is — would be unlikely to have occurred but for the
significant investment that the USDA and the Biden-Harris administration
is making in these projects.   
  
The fact that the Dairyland project, for example, is receiving a
significant grant — a grant that basically funds $471 million of the
project — would suggest that this is a — the impetus and this is the
opportunity that we’ve created for a large — large-scale investment.   
  
There may very well have been other investments made by the Dairyland
Power Cooperative, but I don’t think to the extent that they — that they
are currently now prepared to do so with the help and assistance that
USDA is providing.

\[Senior administration official\], you want to add anything to that?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  \[Senior administration official\] is
exactly right.  What I’ve heard directly from Cooperative executives is
that New ERA is transforming their business.  Dairyland CEO, for
example, said they’re going to be a different organization after
Thursday than they were before because of the transformative effect of
New ERA.

There’s no doubt that while some of this might have occurred and there —
these co-ops were making investments in clean energy, this is making
sure that it’s of a different scale, and, importantly, it’s being done
at a cost that is affordable for rural Americans.

Q    And so, when you talked about some of these being, you know, power
purchase agreements, that’s not just purchasing power that already
exists; that’s creating — that’s new wind turbines in the ground and new
solar panels?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  To qualify for our funding, it has to
be power that either was not built before or was not purchased by the
particular co-op before.

MR. FERNÁNDEZ HERNÁNDEZ:  Thank you.  We will go to Erik now.  You
should be unmuted. 

Erik?

Q    Yeah, what’s full total timeframe for all of this to be built out
fully to fully recognize the entire investment that’s being made here? 

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  \[Senior administration official\], is
it 2031?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yes, sir.  Under the Inflation
Reduction Act, everything has to be built and validated and dispersed by
September 30th, 2031.

MR. FERNÁNDEZ HERNÁNDEZ:  Thank you.  We will go to Fatima next.  You
should be unmuted now.  
  
Q    Hi.  Thank you for taking this call.  How is the White House
balancing these electrification and other projects with the IRA with the
protests and lawsuits to mining the materials needed for this
infrastructure, especially as projects encroach on culturally
significant lands, especially for Tribes?  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICAL:  So, I can — I can start there, Fatima,
and our USDA colleagues may want to speak a bit more about the — the
design of this particular program.   
  
I’m not sure which — what kinds of mining or other facilities that you
have in mind.  But here, as elsewhere across the Investing in America
agenda, USDA has built community benefits agreements into the design of
this program, and so the co-ops that are being selected for these awards
have done and will continue to do extensive community consultations in
their service areas and in the project areas to ensure that these
projects are being built according to high labor standards, that they
are delivering benefits directly to communities, and, consistent with
all federal projects that fall under NEPA permitting processes, that
those public consultations and any Tribal consultations that are — that
are required by the project service area are fully — fully pursued.  
  
But, \[senior administration official\], I don’t know if there’s
anything else you want to add about the community benefits agreement
approach here.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  \[Senior administration official\] is
right on.  We are making sure that each of these co-ops does extensive
community engagement with the areas that are — that will be affected by
the — by New ERA funding.  We expect that this funding will result in
tremendous benefits beyond just the clean power.  That particularly
applies to farmers seeing benefits and the job growth that Natalie
mentioned earlier.  And part of that is a robust engagement of the
people who are there.   
  
The last piece I’ll just say about this is that co-ops are owned by the
members, so the people who live and work in rural America are the people
who own the co-ops.  There’s no utility that’s more sensitive to what
the people who live in its service territory are thinking about and
worried about than co-ops, and that puts them a step ahead when it comes
to this community engagement.  
  
MR. FERNÁNDEZ HERNÁNDEZ:  Thank you.  We will to Sean next.  You should
be unmuted now.  
  
Q    Thank you.  Thank you for hosting this.  My two questions really
are a little bit more about logistics.  First one is, will Secretary
Vilsack be joining the president?  Will there be people available to
comment tomorrow from the co-op?   
  
And when the president visited here two years ago, we were allowed to
walk with him as he inspected some of the EV equipment that the city was
investing in.  Is that part of the plan for tomorrow?  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Well, I can assure you — this is Tom
Vilsack. I can assure you that I’ll be there in Wisconsin with the
President.  
  
MR. FERNÁNDEZ HERNÁNDEZ:  And, Sean, on some of your logistical
questions, we’re happy to follow up with you on those.  
  
Okay.  We will go to Larry next.  You should be unmuted now.  
  
Larry?  
  
Q    There we go.  I think it’s working now.  
  
MR. FERNÁNDEZ HERNÁNDEZ:  Yep.  There you go.  
  
Q    Larry Lee at Brownfield Ag News.   
  
First of all, are all the grants going to cooperatives.  And secondly,
the $471 million to Dairyland Power Co-Op, does that include bringing
the Genoa nuclear plant back online or perhaps building a new reactor? 
I believe \[senior administration official\] mentioned that might not be
able to use it on stuff built before this, but there may be something
else in the works.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  \[Senior administration official\], I’m
going to let you answer the last part of Larry’s question, but it’s my
understanding that the New ERA program is specifically designed and only
available to rural electric cooperatives.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yes, sir.  And then I just want to be
clear about the total amount.  So, the $471 million that you mentioned,
Larry, that’s just for the grants.  There’s another $101-plus million
that is going for loan refinancing. 

The co-ops will see significant savings from these financings that they
can then plow back into new clean energy.  Again, that makes the end
result more affordable for these co-ops.  So, there is a tremendous
advantage in both products.  And the total is $573 million just for
Dairyland.

As for the nuclear plant, Dairyland is building — is buying power from
four new solar projects and four new wind projects.  Their particular
plan does not involve any new nuclear.

MR. FERNÁNDEZ HERNÁNDEZ:  Thank you.  We will go to Kelsey next.  You
should be unmuted now.

Q    Can you hear me?

MR. FERNÁNDEZ HERNÁNDEZ:  Yes.

Q    Hi.  This is Kelsey Reichmann from Courthouse News.

A lot of the administration’s efforts with clean energy have been
challenged at the Supreme Court, and, in particular, there’s a challenge
to the power plant rules for lowering emissions.  And some of the
industry groups claim that adopting these new emission standards would
impact the energy grid because they would have to close down plants and
they wouldn’t be able to adjust to the rules.  So, I guess I’m wondering
how these investments address those problems and if they do.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  I can — I can take that, or at least
start, and if \[senior administration official\] wants to add.

This is an entirely voluntary initiative.  The co-ops were invited to
submit letters of interest that detailed what they wanted their future
to look like with regard to clean energy.  So, there’s — there was no
regulatory piece to this whatsoever. 

These are co-ops who understand that the clean energy is going to make
their systems more reliable and more resilient to extreme weather.  The
— by ensuring that we are helping with upfront costs, that keeps the
entire — all the projects more affordable.  And we know that each of the
16 selectees are excited for wh- — for this opportunity.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  That’s right, \[senior administration
official\]. 

And all I’ll just add there is that, you know, this is part — you know,
a major program under the president’s Inflation Reduction Act, under the
Investing in America agenda, which is putting money directly into
communities to help build the clean energy projects that they want to
build to achieve all of those goals that \[senior administration
official\] has in mind.  
  
This is a — you know, this is a program that was authorized and
appropriated by Congress as part of the Inflation Reduction Act, and
we’re very excited about tomorrow’s milestone. 

MR. FERNÁNDEZ HERNÁNDEZ:  Thank you.  We have time for one more
question.  And we will go to Hope.  You should be unmuted now. 

Q    Thank you.  Hope Kirwan with Wisconsin Public Radio.  I’m wondering
if there is something about this project in Westby that, you know,
caused the president to want to highlight this project out of all the
16.  You know, is there — there something about this project in
Wisconsin that represents, you know, kind of the goals of the Investing
in America agenda? 

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Well, I’m happy to take a initial stab
on this.   
  
You know, I think this is a project that in which all aspects of the
Inflation Reduction Act are sort of underscored.  The notion that not
only are you going to essentially leverage private investment, not only
are you going to create clean energy that will make the systems
providing energy to rural Wisconsin more reliable and more resilient,
but you’re also providing an opportunity where it’s expected that costs
will be lower over time than they would have otherwise been because of
the source of this energy.  And you also have the benefit of the
community benefit agreements and arrangements. 

This project, I think, is exemplary of the 16 projects that are being
awarded.  And this is just the beginning.  There will be additional
awards in the New ERA program.  And, of course, we — I mentioned that —
the PACE program as well. 

And this is also, I think, an opportunity to point out that when you
combine this investment with the REAP investments to farmers and
ranchers and producers who are capable of producing their own
electricity, reducing their costs, but also potentially producing some
excess that there opens up the opportunity in the future for farmers to
work collaboratively together with their RECs, which could (audio drops)
another revenue stream for farmers, which is extremely important. 

So, this particular project sort of brings everything to a head, and the
good relationship that the Dairyland has with the unions that will
probably be responsible for some of the jobs that will be created in
this project. 

I just recently visited the pipefitters training s- — school in
Wisconsin.  They’re excited about the opportunities that the Inflation
Reduction Act is providing for new jobs.  They’re seeing an increase in
apprenticeships.  They’re seeing an increased interest on the part of
folks to be pipefitters and steamfitters.  And so, this is a project
that will also create really good-paying jobs in Wisconsin and in rural
places.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  If I can just add to what \[senior
administration official\] just said, he’s exactly right.  This is
representative of what New ERA is going to do all around the country. 

It — the baseline for Dairyland is that they now emit about 4.6 million
tons of greenhouse gasses.  By the time that these programs have come to
fruition and they’ve completed these projects, that number is going to
be down to about 1.4 million tons.  What that is is about a 70 percent
decrease in their carbon emissions, an incredible amount.  And New ERA
funding will be responsible for about 85 percent of that.

On top of that, as you all know from the press release, Dairyland is —
expects that about — their rates will be about 42 percent lower than
they otherwise would have been as a result of the New ERA funding once
this is complete, and that is representative of what we are seeing all
around the country when it comes to the recipients of these New ERA
funds.

The Inflation Reduction Act is transforming this entire industry.  It’s
an industry that is purely owned by and for rural America.  When we
invest in that, we are literally putting equity into rural America.  And
as \[senior administration official\] notes, these projects are
indicative of what’s going to happen in the other 15 awardees and then
eventually to the other funding that we will be announcing as the time
goes on.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  And if I could just add — this is
\[senior administration official\] — just to pick up on what \[senior
administration official\] said — you know, the president will go to —
this week, he will have gone to Pennsylvania, Wisconsin, and Michigan. 

And this is, as I mentioned earlier, part of the big push we’re doing to
make sure the president is in communities, meeting with folks who are
benefiting from his Investing in America agenda — that’s urban
communities, that’s rural communities, and otherwise — to just
demonstrate the tangible impacts that this agenda is already having
across the country.  And I think Wisconsin and Dairyland is a great
example of that.

MR. FERNÁNDEZ HERNÁNDEZ:  Thank you, \[senior administration official\],
and thank you, everyone.  Thank you for joining us.  This will end our
press call. 

As a reminder, the contents of this call and the materials that you will
receive over email will be embargoed until 5:00 a.m. Eastern tomorrow.

Thank you for joining us.

12:32 P.M. EDT
