---
date: '2024-09-25'
modified_time: 2024-09-25 13:07:50-04:00
published_time: 2024-09-25 06:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/09/25/fact-sheet-biden-%e2%81%a0harris-administration-announces-new-investments-to-protect-freshwater-resources-enhance-drought-and-climate-resilience/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Announces New Investments to\
  \ Protect Freshwater Resources, Enhance Drought and Climate\_Resilience"
---
 
Our nation’s lakes, rivers, streams, estuaries, and wetlands are
fundamental to the health, prosperity, and resilience
of our communities and are held sacred by many Tribal Nations. They are
not only the sources of clean drinking water that flows into the taps
of our homes, but are also economic drivers supporting jobs and outdoor
recreation across the nation. By absorbing and storing carbon, our
nation’s waterways and wetlands – and the forests, grasslands, and
farmlands they nourish – also play a critical role in the fight against
climate change.

Since Day One, the Biden-Harris Administration [has
worked](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/03/22/fact-sheet-on-world-water-day-biden-harris-administration-builds-on-historic-progress-to-protect-clean-drinking-water-restore-our-nations-rivers-lakes-ponds-and-wetlands/) to
secure clean water for all communities, protect our vital freshwater
resources, and mitigate the impacts of drought. Given that communities
often acutely experience the climate crisis through water-related
impacts – from floods and droughts to polluted drinking sources and
waterways – this Administration is making historic investments through
President Biden’s Investing in America agenda to protect, conserve, and
restore our freshwater basins and ecosystems.

**Meanwhile, many Republicans in Congress continue to deny the very
existence of climate change and remain committed to repealing the
President’s Inflation Reduction Act – the biggest climate protection
bill ever – which would undermine the health, safety, and economic
vitality of their own constituents.**

Today, during Climate Week, the White House is announcing new funding
and whole-of-government initiatives that build upon its ambitious
freshwater agenda and help restore and conserve our freshwater resources
and address climate impacts felt across the nation:

-   **Investing in Long-Term Colorado River Basin Resilience:** The
    Biden-Harris Administration is leading a comprehensive effort to
    make Western communities more resilient to climate change and
    address the ongoing megadrought across the region, including the
    Colorado River Basin, by [harnessing the full
    resources](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/03/05/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-protects-stability-and-sustainability-of-colorado-river-basin-advances-water-conservation-across-the-west/)
    of President Biden’s historic Investing in America agenda. The
    Administration’s investments in the Lower Colorado River Basin
    bridge the immediate need for water conservation while moving toward
    improved system efficiency and more durable long-term solutions.
    Overall, the funding for long-term water conservation initiatives in
    the Lower Basin is expected to save more than 1 million acre-feet of
    water, putting the Basin on a path to a more resilient and
    sustainable water future.
    -   The Department of the Interior’s Bureau of Reclamation is
        announcing the execution of the first three contracts for
        long-term water conservation under the Lower Colorado Basin
        System Conservation and Efficiency Program. Totaling
        approximately $107 million, taken together these first three
        projects – all with the Gila River Indian Community in the Lower
        Colorado River Basin of Arizona – will provide over 73,000
        acre-feet of water conservation to support the sustainability of
        Lake Mead while also helping ensure long-term water resilience
        for the Community. The Bureau of Reclamation is also working on
        the companion program for the Upper Basin, which will provide
        additional water savings for the Basin’s long-term
        sustainability.

    .
-   **Investing in Long-Term Colorado River Basin Resilience:** The
    Biden-Harris Administration is leading a comprehensive effort to
    make Western communities more resilient to climate change and
    address the ongoing megadrought across the region, including the
    Colorado River Basin, by [harnessing the full
    resources](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/03/05/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-protects-stability-and-sustainability-of-colorado-river-basin-advances-water-conservation-across-the-west/)
    of President Biden’s historic Investing in America agenda. The
    Administration’s investments in the Lower Colorado River Basin
    bridge the immediate need for water conservation while moving toward
    improved system efficiency and more durable long-term solutions.
    Overall, the funding for long-term water conservation initiatives in
    the Lower Basin is expected to save more than 1 million acre-feet of
    water, putting the Basin on a path to a more resilient and
    sustainable water future.
    -   The Department of the Interior’s Bureau of Reclamation is
        announcing the execution of the first three contracts for
        long-term water conservation under the Lower Colorado Basin
        System Conservation and Efficiency Program. Totaling
        approximately $107 million, taken together these first three
        projects – all with the Gila River Indian Community in the Lower
        Colorado River Basin of Arizona – will provide over 73,000
        acre-feet of water conservation to support the sustainability of
        Lake Mead while also helping ensure long-term water resilience
        for the Community. The Bureau of Reclamation is also working on
        the companion program for the Upper Basin, which will provide
        additional water savings for the Basin’s long-term
        sustainability.
-   The Department of the Interior’s Bureau of Reclamation is also
    signing agreements with the Imperial Irrigation District and the
    Bard Water District in partnership with the Metropolitan Water
    District in California to ensure the conservation of up to
    717,100acre-feet of water by 2026. This water will remain in Lake
    Mead in an effort to benefit the Colorado River System and its
    users.
-   **Investing in Indian Country:** The Department of the Interior’s
    Bureau of Reclamation has announced historic Tribal water
    infrastructure investments totaling over $1.2 billion through the
    Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, Inflation Reduction Act, Reclamation
    Water Settlement funding, and annual appropriations. This includes a
    new investment of $9.4 million for Tribal drought relief and
    technical assistance projects that will restore wetlands, improve
    irrigation efficiency, and support groundwater monitoring.  
      
-   **Reconnecting Waterways and Restoring Aquatic Ecosystems:** With
    over $3 billion in funding for ecosystem restoration and fish
    passage projects, the Investing in America agenda is helping secure
    cleaner rivers, safer communities, greater recreational
    opportunities, and improved fish and wildlife habitat, driving
    change across the landscape for people, communities, species, and
    ecosystems.
    -   The Administration is announcing a suite of 10 transformational
        fish passage projects that to date have received over $150
        million from eight Federal agencies. When completed, these fish
        passage and aquatic connectivity projects – located in
        communities from Maine to Ohio to California – will reconnect
        nearly 5,000 miles of rivers and streams across the United
        States. Reconnecting waterways allows natural functions to be
        restored in freshwater systems, improving their climate
        resilience and water quality, and therefore their ability to
        protect communities from catastrophic floods, droughts,
        catastrophic wildfire, and water pollution. Improving fish
        passage and reconnecting aquatic systems is one of the most
        effective ways to help conserve vulnerable species, while
        building safer infrastructure for communities and improving
        climate resilience. To date, the Administration has spent over
        $970 million on more than 600 fish passage projects in 45 states
        across the country.

    <!-- -->

    -   The Department of the Interior is announcing an additional $92
        million in new resources from the Bureau of
        Reclamation’s WaterSMART [Aquatic Ecosystem Restoration
        Program](https://www.usbr.gov/watersmart/) to help restore
        important salmon and other native fish habitat across the West.
        These projects, when complete, will provide increased water
        quality, floodplain stability, and drought resiliency.  
          
-   **Collaborating with Stakeholders to Protect Freshwater Systems:**
    At a Climate Week NYC event focused on the Global Freshwater
    Challenge, White House Council on Environmental Quality Chair Brenda
    Mallory announced a doubling of new partners in the [*America the
    Beautiful* Freshwater
    Challenge](https://www.whitehouse.gov/ceq/the-america-the-beautiful-freshwater-challenge/)
    – a nationwide initiative to protect, restore, and reconnect 8
    million acres of wetlands and 100,000 miles of our nation’s rivers
    and streams by 2030. [Over 100
    members](https://www.whitehouse.gov/ceq/97632) from across the
    country initially signed on to support freshwater restoration in
    their communities. That number has now more than doubled to over
    211, including 14 states, 16 Tribal entities, 27 local governments,
    and 79 private sector members.**  
      
    **
-   The Bureau of Reclamation is working with the following sponsors in
    the Lower Colorado Basin to negotiate water conservation contracts
    for ten additional proposed projects, including:
    -   City of Phoenix

    <!-- -->

    -   City of Tucson

    <!-- -->

    -   Coachella Valley Water District

    <!-- -->

    -   Salt River Valley Water Users’ Association & Salt River Project
        Agricultural Improvement and Power District

    <!-- -->

    -   San Diego County Water Authority

    <!-- -->

    -   Southern Nevada Water Authority

    <!-- -->

    -   The Metropolitan Water District of Southern California

    <!-- -->

    -   Town of Gilbert

Today’s announcements build on recent actions that deliver on the
Biden-Harris Administration’s commitment to ensuring safe drinking
water, including [providing approximately $1 billion in
funding](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/04/23/fact-sheet-at-white-house-water-summit-biden-harris-administration-announces-bold-national-goal-to-protect-and-restore-freshwater-resources-delivers-over-1-billion-for-tribal-clean-water-projects/)
to bring safe, clean water to Tribal communities; finalizing the
first-ever standard to [protect communities from toxic “forever
chemicals,”](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/04/10/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-takes-critical-action-to-protect-communities-from-pfas-pollution-in-drinking-water/) along
with rulemakings to [hold polluters responsible for PFAS
cleanup](https://www.epa.gov/newsreleases/biden-harris-administration-finalizes-critical-rule-clean-pfas-contamination-protect) and
to [enhance safeguards against dangerous chemical spills in our nation’s
waters](https://www.epa.gov/newsreleases/epa-requires-industrial-facilities-enhance-preparation-chemical-discharges-water);
and continuing to deliver on President Biden’s goal to [replace every
lead pipe in
America](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/11/30/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-new-action-to-protect-communities-from-lead-exposure/) in
the next decade. The Department of the Interior has
[invested](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/03/05/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-protects-stability-and-sustainability-of-colorado-river-basin-advances-water-conservation-across-the-west/)
more than $6.95 billion to fund over 831 Western water projects through
the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law and the Inflation Reduction Act; the
Environmental Protection Agency has leveraged more than $9 billion in
the last two years alone to communities across the West; and other
agencies from the Department of Agriculture to the U.S. Army Corps of
Engineers continue to make investments that increase water availability,
reduce water use, and enhance resilience.

\###
