---
date: '2024-09-09'
modified_time: 2024-09-08 23:40:30-04:00
published_time: 2024-09-09 05:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/09/09/fact-sheet-congressional-republicans-are-wasting-time-instead-of-delivering-for-the-american-people-yet-again/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Congressional Republicans are Wasting Time Instead of Delivering\
  \ for the American People Yet\_Again"
---
 
Instead of working across the aisle to do their most basic job and
deliver for the American people by keeping the government open and
providing emergency funding for disasters, House Republicans are yet
again wasting time with extreme policies and a potentially harmful
long-term continuing resolution (CR).

The House Republicans’ long-term CR abdicates their responsibility to
the American people. It would erode our national defense, impede our
efforts to outcompete China, fail our veterans and seniors, abandon
communities struck by disasters, and undermine programs that support
small businesses while making wealthy tax cheats pay what they owe.
Finally, it would move us closer to devastating across-the-board cuts to
education and Head Start programs; our veterans, the military, and
border agents; food assistance for mothers, babies, and low-income
families; food and air safety; and more.

**<u>House Republicans’ long-term CR fails to provide necessary
resources for our defense, our veterans, and our seniors.</u>** Both the
Administration and bipartisan appropriators in the Senate have put
forward FY25 proposals that address pressing needs for the Department of
Defense (DoD), Veterans Affairs (VA), Social Security Administration
(SSA), and other federal agencies that would have insufficient funds if
kept at their current FY24 levels. For example:

-   Operating under a six-month CR erodes the U.S. military advantage,
    undermines the United States in our competition with China, degrades
    readiness, and fails to support our troops. Under a CR for an
    extended period, DoD lacks the authority to undertake new start
    efforts or production rate increases for investment programs, which
    are critical to our innovation and modernization goals. It signals
    to our allies and adversaries that the United States is not
    committed to our National Security priorities.

<!-- -->

-   Absent fully addressing a shortfall in funding for the Department of
    Veterans Affairs (VA) Health Care, VA would be forced to make
    difficult tradeoffs in its efforts to preserve quality veteran care.
    VA would need to undertake reductions in overall staffing levels
    that may impact access to care for veterans across clinical
    programs. Veteran experience may be impacted across many different
    functional areas, including medical care scheduling and
    coordination, connecting homeless veterans to permanent housing,
    caregiver support, and other programs. VA may need to scale-back
    outreach efforts to veterans, which VA has been conducting at
    unprecedented levels to inform veterans of new benefits and health
    care enrollment opportunities under the bipartisan PACT Act.

<!-- -->

-   Agencies like the Social Security Administration would be required
    to operate at deeply insufficient levels. For example, SSA would be
    at its lowest staffing levels in more than 50 years, likely
    requiring it to reduce the hours field offices are open and
    extending wait times for seniors and people with disabilities.

**<u>House Republicans’ long-term CR would abandon communities impacted
by disasters.</u>** A six-month CR would mean that communities waiting
on much-needed disaster assistance would need to keep waiting, months
after the President has requested supplemental funding to help them. It
would hurt small businesses and families trying to recover from recent
disasters.

For example:

-   The Small Business Administration’s Disaster Loan Program is likely
    to exhaust available assistance funding early in the new fiscal
    year, crippling the agency’s ability to provide much-needed help to
    small businesses working to rebuild after recent disasters,
    including Hurricanes Beryl and Debby.

<!-- -->

-   A delay would also prevent numerous communities impacted by
    disasters in over 20 states and territories declared in calendar
    years 2023 and 2024 from receiving Community Development Block
    Grant-Disaster Recovery funding, which is urgently needed to address
    housing, economic development and other long-term recovery needs.

<!-- -->

-   The cost to fix highways and bridges that have been damaged by
    disasters in 38 States and three territories currently exceeds
    available Federal Highway Administration-Emergency Relief funds. A
    six-month appropriations delay would delay completion of many of
    these critical projects. Supplemental appropriations are necessary
    to address this backlog.

**<u>House Republicans’ long-term CR would undermine programs that
support small businesses and make wealthy tax cheats pay what they
owe.</u>** House Republicans’ CR would make it harder for the IRS to
continue its efforts using Inflation Reduction Act funding to ensure
that the wealthy pay the taxes they owe. It would also hurt small
businesses by continuing cuts to the State Small Business Credit
Initiative that would prevent states across the country from receiving
funds that provide capital and technical assistance to small businesses
and entrepreneurs nationwide.

**<u>House Republicans’ long-term CR puts us closer to across-the-board
cuts to programs Americans count on.</u>** A six-month CR would last
until the end of March—only 30 days before the sequester deadline from
the Fiscal Responsibility Act that would trigger across-the-board cuts
if full-year bills are not passed. That short window next year would
create a much higher risk that those cuts go into effect, resulting in
devastating cuts to education and Head Start programs; our veterans, the
military, and border agents; food assistance for mothers, babies, and
low-income families; food and air safety; and more.

\# \# \#
