---
date: '2024-09-27'
modified_time: 2024-09-29 18:16:43-04:00
published_time: 2024-09-27 18:15:48-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/09/27/readout-of-the-white-house-states-convening-on-child-care-2/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Readout of the White\_House States Convening on Child\_Care"
---
 
Last week, White House officials welcomed leaders from 34 states across
the country to discuss state actions to make child care more affordable
for working families, increase child care provider supply, and improve
job quality for child care workers.

This convening reaffirms the Biden-Harris Administration’s commitment
to expanding access to child care. Last week, the Council of Economic
Advisors released its [new issue
brief](https://www.whitehouse.gov/cea/written-materials/2024/09/27/child-care-is-infrastructure-evidence-from-universal-pre-k) identifying
how child care is foundational to the overall economy by demonstrating
the connection between expanded access to child care and
increased maternal labor force participation and business formation.
This new analysis adds
to [earlier findings](https://www.whitehouse.gov/cea/written-materials/2024/06/27/impacts-of-the-expiration-of-federal-child-care-stabilization-funding-and-the-mitigating-effects-of-state-level-stopgap-funding/) on
how federal funding made possible by the American Rescue Plan lowered
costs for working families and increased women’s labor force
participation and underscores the need for additional investments in the
child care sector as part of economic infrastructure.  

The Biden-Harris Administration has demonstrated its commitment to
supporting affordable care through direct investments—including tens of
billions of dollars through the American Rescue Plan—and has proposed
historic investments in child care in the President’s annual
budgets. The President and Vice President have secured a 50% increase in
child care funding over this Administration, resulting in child care
subsidies supporting over a half million more children from low-income
families. President Biden also signed the [Executive Order on Increasing
Access to High-Quality Care and Supporting
Caregivers,](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/04/18/executive-order-on-increasing-access-to-high-quality-care-and-supporting-caregivers/) which
includes more than 50 directives to expand access to affordable,
high-quality care and to support care workers and caregivers, and
required companies applying for major grants from his CHIPS and Science
Act to ensure affordable, high-quality care for their workers. Under the
leadership of President Biden and Vice President Harris, the
Administration is lowering child care costs for more than 100,000
lower-income families by capping costs at no more than 7% of their
income, saving families an average of $2,400 a year.

At the convening, state leaders talked about progress they have made
since the [2023 White House
convening](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/07/19/readout-of-the-white-house-states-convening-on-child-care/)
including successes from the most recent legislative session and
discussed next steps for further state action on child care, such
as serving more working families, lowering costs, and supporting
providers. Spurred by the historic actions the Biden-Harris
Administration has taken, states across the country have made
significant investments in child care as part of their budgets, expanded
income eligibility for child care subsidies, and increased provider
payment rates. Administration officials also highlighted their call
to states to invest at least 0.5% of [federal highway formula
funds](https://www.fhwa.dot.gov/innovativeprograms/centers/workforce_dev/504e_state_core_programs_guidance_0318.aspx),
which total nearly $50 billion per year, to expand and diversify their
construction workforces, including by providing child care and other
supportive services. States can follow the examples of Maryland and
Pennsylvania by investing highway funds in [high-quality workforce
approaches](https://www.transportation.gov/sites/dot.gov/files/2024-02/Best%20Practices%20to%20Expand%20Accessto%20Jobs%20and%20Economic%20Opportunity%20final_.pdf) such
as registered apprenticeship and pre-apprenticeship programs and
supportive services.

White House officials thanked state legislators for their leadership and
dedication to this issue, and discussed the Biden-Harris
Administration’s concrete support for continued federal and state action
to improve child care access and affordability, worker and provider
supports, and quality.

\###
