---
date: '2024-09-05'
modified_time: 2024-09-04 22:01:12-04:00
published_time: 2024-09-05 09:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/09/05/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-hits-offshore-wind-milestone-continues-to-advance-clean-energy-opportunities/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Hits Offshore Wind Milestone,\
  \ Continues to Advance Clean Energy Opportunities"
---
 
*Administration approves 10<sup>th</sup> offshore wind project; previous
Administration approved none*

*With this approval, Nation has permitted 15 gigawatts of offshore wind
capacity, as progress continues toward President Biden’s goal of
deploying 30 gigawatts by 2030*

President Biden and Vice President Harris’s leadership has catalyzed the
nation’s offshore wind industry which is creating good-paying and union
jobs, establishing and growing new industries in the United States,
providing reliable clean power for homes and businesses, strengthening
Made in America supply chains, tackling the climate crisis, and helping
lower costs for families.

The Biden-Harris Administration has built the offshore wind industry
from the ground up. Right now, American workers across manufacturing,
shipbuilding, construction, and other sectors are building this new
industry. The Administration continues to use every tool available
—including leveraging historic resources from President Biden’s
Investing in America agenda — to seize near- and long-term offshore wind
opportunities across America that will create new jobs for our
communities.  

At the beginning of this Administration, there were no approved
commercial-scale offshore wind projects in federal waters in the United
States. Recognizing the urgency of catalyzing this industry to generate
clean energy and combat climate change, President Biden set an ambitious
goal of 30 gigawatts of offshore wind in the United States by 2030,
while protecting biodiversity and promoting ocean co-use. **Today, the
Biden-Harris Administration is announcing the 10<sup>th</sup> approval
of a commercial-scale offshore wind project. With this approval, the
nation has now approved more than 15 gigawatts of offshore wind projects
– enough to power 5.25 million homes, and equivalent to half of the
capacity needed to achieve the 30 gigawatt goal.  **

US Wind’s project offshore Maryland – approved today by the Department
of the Interior’s Bureau of Ocean Energy Management (BOEM) – will
provide up to 2,200 megawatts of clean, reliable renewable energy for
the Delmarva Peninsula and power up to 770,000 homes. The development
and construction phases of the project are estimated to support up to an
estimated 2,679 jobs annually over seven years.

Overall, successfully deploying 30 gigawatts of offshore wind will help
power 10 million homes with clean energy, support 77,000 jobs, avoid 78
million metric tons of CO2 emissions, and spur $12 billion per year in
private investment in offshore wind projects.

Today’s announcement builds on significant progress that the
Biden-Harris Administration has made to accelerate project reviews while
protecting communities and our environment. [Recent
data](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/08/29/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-takes-action-to-deliver-more-projects-more-quickly-accelerates-federal-permitting/)
demonstrates that the Biden-Harris Administration is delivering more
projects, more quickly than the previous Administration.

Today’s milestones build on the Administration’s progress to grow our
nation’s offshore wind industry, including:

**<u>Advancing Offshore Wind off Every Coast</u>**

Since the start of the Biden-Harris Administration, the Department of
the Interior has held five offshore wind lease auctions providing more
than 1.3 million new acres for development – including a record-breaking
sale offshore New York and New Jersey that
[generated](https://www.doi.gov/pressreleases/biden-harris-administration-sets-offshore-energy-records-437-billion-winning-bids-wind)
more than $4 billion in winning bids. The Department of the Interior
also held first-ever sales offshore the
[Pacific](https://www.doi.gov/pressreleases/biden-harris-administration-announces-winners-california-offshore-wind-energy-auction)
and [Gulf
Coasts](https://www.doi.gov/pressreleases/biden-harris-administration-holds-first-ever-gulf-mexico-offshore-wind-energy-auction);
held the first sale in the [Central
Atlantic](https://www.doi.gov/pressreleases/biden-harris-administrations-central-atlantic-offshore-wind-lease-sale-yields-nearly)
region in a decade; and announced the first-ever sales offshore
[Oregon](https://www.doi.gov/pressreleases/biden-harris-administration-announces-first-ever-wind-lease-sale-offshore-oregon)
and [in the Gulf of
Maine](https://www.doi.gov/pressreleases/interior-department-proposes-offshore-wind-sales-oregon-gulf-maine).
Earlier this year, Secretary of the Interior Deb Haaland
[announced](https://www.doi.gov/pressreleases/secretary-haaland-announces-new-five-year-offshore-wind-leasing-schedule)
a new five-year offshore wind leasing schedule that aims to hold up to
12 potential offshore wind sales through 2028, including potential
first-ever sales in HawaiˋI and a U.S. Territory. Because of the
Administration’s progress on permitting the nation’s first offshore wind
projects and leasing new areas, the total U.S. offshore wind project
pipeline now exceeds 80 gigawatts, enough to power more than 26 million
homes if fully developed.

**<u>Investing in Workers and Communities</u>** 

The Administration is advancing offshore wind development in a way that
will maximize benefits for local communities and create good-paying jobs
for American workers, including by harnessing a range of clean energy
tax credits from President Biden’s Investing in America Agenda and
[federal financing
programs](https://www.energy.gov/sites/default/files/2024-04/DOE-BOEM-Fed-Offshore-wind-v3_w150.updated.pdf)
across the Departments of Energy, the Interior, Commerce, and
Transportation. The Department of the Interior has also introduced
innovative provisions in lease sales supporting workforce training and
union-built projects, domestic supply chain development, and community
benefit agreements —including with Tribes and stakeholder groups. The
Energy Department has charted a path to grow and train an [American
workforce](https://www.energy.gov/eere/articles/national-lab-study-charts-path-toward-significant-growth-offshore-wind-workforce) to
fill tens of thousands of jobs across the offshore wind industry. The
Administration’s Federal-State Offshore Wind Implementation Partnership
is working to
[strengthen](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/09/21/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-advances-offshore-wind-transmission-strengthens-regional-supply-chain-buildout-and-drives-innovation/)
regional collaboration on offshore wind supply chain development, to
unlock more American job opportunities. With these efforts driving
progress, [offshore wind investments](https://www.energy.gov/invest)
announced during the Biden-Harris Administration now include more than
$6.9 billion across 19 manufacturing facilities and 15 ports, as well as
25 new offshore wind vessels being built in 8 different states, totaling
thousands of new jobs.

**<u>Accelerating Offshore Wind Permitting</u>**

Today’s tenth offshore wind project approval, reflecting collaboration
across federal agencies, is part of [comprehensive Administration
efforts](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/08/29/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-takes-action-to-deliver-more-projects-more-quickly-accelerates-federal-permitting/)
to improve the federal permitting process, including: investing over $1
billion through Inflation Reduction Act funds to hire experts and invest
in new technologies to expedite reviews; passing the first reforms to
modernize the National Environmental Policy Act for the first time in 50
years; and using executive authorities, wherever possible, to improve
permitting and environmental review processes. Earlier this year, the
Department of the Interior
[finalized](https://www.doi.gov/pressreleases/interior-department-finalizes-rule-streamline-and-modernize-offshore-renewable-energy)
a rule that is expected to save offshore wind developers about $1.9
billion over 20 years by modernizing regulations for offshore renewable
energy development. The Department of the Interior is also developing
programmatic environmental impact statements for the [New York
Bight](https://www.boem.gov/newsroom/press-releases/boem-announces-draft-environmental-review-future-development-wind-lease)
and
[California](https://www.boem.gov/newsroom/press-releases/boem-announces-environmental-review-future-development-california-offshore)
offshore wind lease areas to create efficiencies for individual project
reviews. Additionally, BOEM and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration issued a [joint
strategy](https://www.fisheries.noaa.gov/media-release/noaa-boem-announce-final-north-atlantic-right-whale-and-offshore-wind-strategy)
to protect and promote the recovery of endangered North Atlantic right
whales while responsibly developing offshore wind energy. These agencies
are also
[deploying](https://www.fisheries.noaa.gov/endangered-species-conservation/priority-investments-north-atlantic-right-whale-recovery)
Inflation Reduction Act funding and working with industry and
environmental stakeholders to advance whale detection and monitoring
technologies.

**<u>Strengthening Transmission and Port Infrastructure for Offshore
Wind</u>**

The Departments of the Interior and Energy released [*An Action Plan for
Offshore Wind Transmission Development in the U.S. Atlantic
Region*](https://www.boem.gov/renewable-energy/stakeholder-engagement/partnerships),
a set of bold actions that will catalyze grid upgrades to boost offshore
wind energy, strengthen the domestic supply chain, and create
good-paying, union jobs. Similar efforts are underway along the West and
Gulf coasts. These efforts are funded from the Inflation Reduction Act
for offshore wind and interregional transmission analyses and
convenings. This summer, the Department of Energy announced federal
transmission investments that will help connect [4,800 megawatts of
offshore wind to the New England
grid](https://www.energy.gov/articles/biden-harris-administration-invests-22-billion-nations-grid-protect-against-extreme)
and provide [economic development
grants](https://www.energy.gov/gdo/TSED) to several communities that
will host offshore wind transmission infrastructure. To help build out
the port capacity needed for offshore wind manufacturing and project
construction, the Department of Transportation has awarded more than
$675 million in grants for East Coast and West Coast ports to support
offshore wind activities.

**<u>Advancing Floating Offshore Wind Innovation and Deployment</u>**

Deep-water areas that require floating platforms are home to two-thirds
of America’s offshore wind energy potential, including along the West
Coast and in the Gulf of Maine. To seize these opportunities, the
Department of the Interior set
a [goal](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/09/15/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-new-actions-to-expand-u-s-offshore-wind-energy/) to
deploy 15 gigawatts of floating offshore wind capacity by 2035—enough to
power over five million American homes. And the Administration launched
an interagency [Floating Offshore Wind
Shot](https://www.energy.gov/eere/wind/floating-offshore-wind-shot-progress-and-priorities),
which seeks to reduce the cost of floating offshore wind energy by more
than 70 percent by 2035. The Departments of Energy, the Interior,
Commerce, and Transportation have [already achieved over 50 milestones
and dedicated over $950
million](https://www.energy.gov/eere/wind/floating-offshore-wind-shot-progress-and-priorities)
to advance the [Floating Offshore Wind
Shot](https://www.energy.gov/eere/wind/floating-offshore-wind-shot-progress-and-priorities)
and American competitiveness on floating offshore wind turbine design,
development, and manufacturing. Last month, the Department of the
Interior
[announced](https://www.boem.gov/newsroom/press-releases/boem-issues-offshore-wind-research-lease-state-maine)
the execution of the nation’s first floating offshore wind energy
research lease offshore Maine.

\###
