---
date: '2024-09-18'
published_time: 2024-09-18 20:07:06-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/09/18/readout-of-white-house-roundtable-with-youth-voting-leaders/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Readout of White\_House Roundtable with Youth Voting\_Leaders"
---
 
Yesterday, on National Voter Registration Day, the White House hosted a
roundtable discussion to hear directly from youth leaders about their
nonpartisan efforts to promote youth civic engagement across the
country. College and high school student leaders from Alabama, Arizona,
Florida, Maryland, Michigan, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, and Texas
discussed their nonpartisan efforts to help eligible young Americans
register to vote and cast their ballots. Leaders of organizations that
support nonpartisan youth civic engagement highlighted their work to
strengthen young peoples’ ability to make their voices heard and have an
impact on issues that they care most about. Participants discussed
barriers to voting that young Americans face, including unfamiliarity
with the voting process, lack of access to and information about voter
registration opportunities and convenient ballot polling locations or
ballot drop boxes, voter suppression such as laws that limit the ability
of students to use their school IDs to vote, and the chilling effect of
state restrictions on voter registration activity. During the
roundtable, the Biden-Harris Administration discussed its efforts to
expand voting access for young Americans, including improving and
promoting vote.gov, which offers guides for college students and those
approaching voting age, and the Department of Education’s toolkit to
provide schools with nonpartisan strategies to help their eligible
students register to vote and cast their ballots.

As extremists across the country continue to advance policies that make
it harder for Americans to vote and spread baseless lies to sow doubt
about the integrity of our elections, the Biden-Harris Administration
reaffirmed its steadfast commitment to ensuring that all eligible
Americans, regardless of their political affiliation, are able to vote
in free, fair, and secure elections. That is why, for example, Vice
President Harris announced National Voter Registration Day as one of
three National Days of Action on Voting Rights. President Biden and Vice
President Harris will continue to stand up to attacks on Americans’
fundamental right to vote, and call on Congress to pass the John Lewis
Voting Rights Advancement Act and the Freedom to Vote Act to fully
protect the right to vote for all eligible Americans in every state.

Additionally, on National Voter Registration Day, the Biden-Harris
Administration announced actions that agencies are taking to promote
access to voting for all eligible Americans, building on the progress
that agencies have made since President Biden issued an Executive Order
on Promoting Access to Voting on March, 7, 2021:

1.  The General Services Administration (GSA) recently launched a
    revamped vote.gov website, where Americans can find nonpartisan
    information about registering to vote and how to vote. The new
    vote.gov is now available in 19 languages, accommodating 96% of the
    American public, and has new accessibility features like
    compatibility with screen readers. Vote.gov partnered with the
    Election Assistance Commission (EAC) to now offer an accessible tool
    that helps voters more easily fill out the National Mail Voter
    Registration Form online, then print and mail it to their state or
    territory. While vote.gov itself does not register voters or store
    any personal data, it serves as a helpful one-stop tool that
    connects Americans to their state election websites to register to
    vote. 
2.  The Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) is making it
    easier for interested consumers on HealthCare.gov to connect to
    voter registration services. Starting on September 20, 2024, the
    HealthCare.gov online application will include an optional question
    allowing consumers to express an interest in receiving information
    about registering to vote, and those who select to express an
    interest will receive a link to vote.gov for additional information.
3.  GSA partnered with the United States Postal Service to display
    vote.gov posters in approximately 17,000 Post Offices across the
    country.

\###
