---
date: '2024-09-05'
modified_time: 2024-09-04 22:11:40-04:00
published_time: 2024-09-05 05:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/09/05/fact-sheet-president-biden-visits-westby-wisconsin-announces-7-3-billion-for-clean-affordable-reliable-electricity-for-rural-america-the-largest-investment-in-rural-electrification-since-the-ne/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: President\_Biden Visits Westby, Wisconsin, Announces $7.3 Billion\
  \ for Clean, Affordable, Reliable Electricity for Rural America; The Largest Investment\
  \ in Rural Electrification Since the New\_Deal"
---
 
Today, President Biden will travel to Westby, Wisconsin to announce $7.3
billion for clean, affordable, reliable electricity for rural America,
funded by his Inflation Reduction Act – this is part of his series
designed to demonstrate how the Biden-Harris Administration’s Investing
in America agenda is improving the lives of Americans across the country
and planting the seeds of a better future for decades to come. The
investment announced today is the largest investment in rural
electrification since the New Deal and is part of the President’s
Investing in America agenda, which is lowering costs, creating jobs and
bringing new opportunity to communities and families across the country.

The President will announce the first round of rural electric
cooperatives selected and the first award for the U.S. Department of
Agriculture’s [Empowering Rural America (New ERA)
program](https://www.rd.usda.gov/programs-services/electric-programs/empowering-rural-america-new-era-program),
funded through the Inflation Reduction Act. This program helps rural
electric cooperatives transition to clean, affordable, and reliable
energy and distribute that power to communities, businesses, farms, and
families across Rural America. These investments will lower energy costs
by up to hundreds of dollars per year for millions of homes and
businesses, tackle the climate crisis by reducing greenhouse gas
emissions, and create thousands of jobs and new economic opportunities
in rural America.

***President Biden to Announce $7.3 Billion from the New ERA Program***

Today, USDA announced that 16 rural electric cooperatives are being
selected to receive up to $7.3 billion in clean energy financing that
will deliver clean, more affordable and more resilient electricity to
approximately 5 million rural co-op members representing 20 percent of
rural households, farms, businesses and schools. These 16 cooperatives
will benefit rural residents across 23 states, serving farmers, small
businesses, and rural communities in Alaska, Arizona, California,
Colorado, Florida, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kentucky, Michigan,
Minnesota, Montana, Nebraska, New Jersey, New Mexico, Nevada, North
Dakota, Ohio, Pennsylvania, South Dakota, Texas, Wisconsin, and Wyoming.

These first 16 co-ops will leverage $7.3 billion from the Inflation
Reduction Act into a total investment of more than $29 billion in rural
communities across the nation. Thanks to the New ERA program, co-ops
will build or purchase over 10 gigawatts of clean energy and make
enabling investments in areas including transmission, substation
upgrades, and distributed energy resource management software that will
lower energy costs for rural Americans and enhance grid performance,
resiliency, and reliability.

This financing will reduce electricity bills for rural families and
businesses, who for too long have faced higher energy costs than the
rest of the country due to the challenges of providing electricity in
rural and remote areas. The New ERA program is helping rural
cooperatives overcome barriers to upgrading infrastructure and investing
in newer, lower cost electricity projects.

These New ERA investments will support more than 4,500 permanent jobs
and over 16,000 construction jobs. They will also prevent at least 43.7
million tons of greenhouse gas pollution annually, equivalent to
removing pollution from more than 10 million gas-powered cars every
year.

In Wisconsin, Dairyland Power Cooperative is receiving the first New ERA
award of nearly $573 million, which they will leverage for a total
project investment of $2.1 billion. Dairyland plans to procure 1,080
megawatts of renewable energy through eight wind and solar power
purchase agreements, four solar installations, and four wind power
installations across rural portions of Wisconsin, Iowa, Minnesota, and
Illinois. Dairyland estimates that electric rates for their members will
be 42% lower over 10 years than they would have been without New ERA
funding.

***President Biden’s Investing in America Agenda is Lowering Costs,
Making the Largest Investment in Rural Electrification Since the New
Deal***

The Inflation Reduction Act invests nearly $13 billion in rural
electrification across multiple programs—the largest investment in rural
electrification since the New Deal. In addition to today’s New ERA
announcement:

-   The Powering Affordable Clean Energy (PACE) program, created by the
    Inflation Reduction Act, funds new clean energy projects and energy
    storage in rural America. The program provides low-interest loans
    with up to 60% loan forgiveness to renewable energy developers,
    rural electric cooperatives and other rural energy providers for
    renewable energy storage and projects that use wind, solar,
    hydropower, geothermal and biomass. By using renewable energy, PACE
    projects will make it more affordable for people to heat their
    homes, run their businesses and power cars, schools, hospitals and
    more. To date, USDA has announced more than $665 million of
    investments selected to proceed under the [PACE
    program](https://www.rd.usda.gov/powering-affordable-clean-energy-program-project-announcements).

<!-- -->

-   The Rural Energy for America Program (REAP), which was expanded
    through the Inflation Reduction Act, provides grant and loan
    financing to agricultural producers and rural small businesses for
    renewable energy systems – like solar panels – or to make energy
    efficiency improvements. During the Biden Administration, [REAP has
    invested $2.2 billion across over 7,600
    projects](https://www.rd.usda.gov/inflation-reduction-act/rural-energy-america-program-reap)
    across the country. 

These investments in rural electrification will help build new
electricity generation projects and meet growing demand, which will help
power the manufacturing renaissance driven by the Investing in America
agenda.

***President Biden’s Investing in America Agenda is Ensuring a Brighter
Future for Wisconsin Communities and Families***

Today’s announcement builds on historic progress all around Wisconsin
thanks to the Biden-Harris Administration’s Investing in America agenda.
Since the President and Vice President took office, the Administration
has announced $7.2 billion in federal funding, which has catalyzed an
additional $5.1 billion in private sector commitments to invest in
manufacturing and clean energy across the state. The Investing in
America agenda is rebuilding roads and bridges using Made in America
materials and American workers. It is bringing back jobs in industries
that spent decades outsourcing. And it’s reaching communities in every
corner of the state, including those that have too often been left
behind.

At the beginning of his term, President Biden traveled to La Crosse,
Wisconsin – just down the road from Westby – to sell Americans on his
plans for a better future. Now, three years later, the President has
delivered on the vision he outlined laying the groundwork for a better
future for all Wisconsinites for decades into the future:

-   The President talked about the need to repair roads and bridges to
    enhance safety and to save time and money for Americans. Since then,
    the Administration has announced over $4 billion for transportation
    investments for over 350 specific projects, including the
    construction of three new roundabouts on US 14 and South Avenue, and
    the County Highway M bridge over the La Crosse River being replaced
    right now in West Salem.
-   The President talked about the need to eradicate lead pipes. Since
    then, we’ve announced $9 billion nationwide, including over $200
    million in Wisconsin, to replace lead pipes. That funding is already
    accelerating efforts in cities like Milwaukee, which is now on track
    to replace all lead pipes within 10 years instead of 60 years thanks
    to funding from President Biden’s Bipartisan Infrastructure Law. We
    also issued a proposed rulemaking to achieve 100% Lead Pipe
    Replacement nationwide within a decade.
-   The President talked about the need to expand high-speed internet so
    that kids can do their homework from home, and farmers can grow
    their business with easy access to internet. Since then, 72,000
    additional homes and small businesses have been connected (nearly
    30% of the total unserved in the state) and the state has been
    awarded $1.6 billion for high-speed internet to finish the job and
    connect all remaining unserved homes and small businesses by 2030.
-   The President talked about the need to address dangerous chemicals,
    known as PFAS or “forever chemicals”—that plagued communities like
    La Crosse’s French Island. Since then, President Biden created the
    first-ever National Standard to Address PFAS in Drinking Water and
    through his Bipartisan Infrastructure Law has made $9 billion
    available nationwide to address PFAS and other emerging
    contaminants.
-   The President talked about the need to bring good paying jobs to
    rural communities so that families can build wealth and opportunity
    in rural hometowns and their children don’t have to leave to get a
    job. Since then, we’ve expanded the Rural Partners Network to better
    deliver federal resources to five community networks in rural
    Wisconsin. By hiring federal staff from within the communities to
    work with local leaders, over $320 million of federal investments
    are now helping to build strong and vibrant rural economies.
-   The President talked about the need for investments to propel
    America into the future and bringing economic opportunity to every
    region of the country. Since then, the Biden-Harris Administration
    has designated 31 Tech Hubs across the country, including the
    [Wisconsin Biohealth Tech
    Hub](https://www.eda.gov/funding/programs/regional-technology-and-innovation-hubs/2023/Wisconsin-Biohealth-Tech-Hub),
    which received $49 million to position Wisconsin as a global leader
    in personalized medicine while expanding support to workers and
    entrepreneurs from underrepresented communities.

The progress in Wisconsin is just one example of the progress being made
across every state in the nation. For more information about the
progress of the President’s Investing in America Agenda, please visit
[invest.gov](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/invest/?utm_source=invest.gov). 

\###
