---
date: '2024-09-06'
modified_time: 2024-09-06 09:59:16-04:00
published_time: 2024-09-06 10:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/09/06/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-advances-chumash-heritage-national-marine-sanctuary-reinforces-ocean-conservation-legacy/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Advances Chumash Heritage National\
  \ Marine Sanctuary, Reinforces Ocean Conservation\_Legacy"
---
 
Since their first day in office, President Biden and Vice President
Harris have delivered on the most ambitious climate and conservation
agenda in history – including taking action to conserve our ocean and
marine ecosystems for future generations. This agenda is driven by the
President’s [*America the Beautiful*
initiative](https://www.conservation.gov/pages/america-the-beautiful-initiative),
which is supporting locally led conservation efforts with a goal to
protect, conserve, and restore at least 30 percent of U.S. lands and
waters by 2030.

Today, as part of the Biden-Harris Administration’s unprecedented
commitment to protect America’s natural wonders for future generations,
honor areas of national importance and of cultural significance to
Tribal Nations and Indigenous Peoples, and expand access to nature, the
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) released a [final
Environmental Impact Statement
(FEIS)](https://www.noaa.gov/news-release/noaa-reaches-key-milestone-in-designation-of-chumash-heritage-national-marine-sanctuary)
for the proposed Chumash Heritage National Marine Sanctuary. The
preferred alternative outlined by NOAA in the FEIS would designate 4,543
square miles of ocean waters off the coast of Central California as a
National Marine Sanctuary. If designated, the Chumash Heritage National
Marine Sanctuary will be the third largest in the National Marine
Sanctuary System.

The release of the FEIS for the Chumash Heritage National Marine
Sanctuary follows nearly a decade of work by Tribes, Indigenous Peoples,
community leaders, organizations, businesses, state and local officials,
and members of Congress – including then-Senator and now Vice President
Kamala Harris – to develop and advance this National Marine Sanctuary
proposal. The sanctuary, as described in the preferred alternative of
the FEIS, would recognize and celebrate Indigenous Peoples’ connections
to the region, and be managed with the active involvement of Tribes and
Indigenous communities, inclusive of Indigenous values, knowledge, and
traditions. The sanctuary is anticipated to bring comprehensive
community- and ecosystem-based management to nationally significant
natural, historical, archeological, and cultural resources – including
kelp forests, rocky reefs, sandy beaches, underwater mountains, and more
than 200 shipwrecks.

The boundaries for the National Marine Sanctuary, as outlined in the
preferred alternative in the FEIS, would not include areas where
offshore wind turbines are currently planned to be built or where wind
energy transmission cables are expected to be authorized. The proposed
boundaries reflect extensive input from Tribes, conservation
stakeholders, and offshore wind developers on how to simultaneously
pursue conservation and clean energy goals. NOAA would consider a
potential expansion of the proposed sanctuary in the coming years,
however, after transmission cables have been laid.  

**Chumash Heritage National Marine Sanctuary**

The boundary of the preferred alternative for the proposed Chumash
Heritage National Marine Sanctuary stretches along 116 miles of
coastline and would encompass 4,543 square miles of ocean, protecting
important ecological habitats such as kelp forests, rocky reefs, and
sandy beaches, a seabird hotspot, and significant offshore features,
including the Rodriguez Seamount, Arguello Canyon, and a portion of
Santa Lucia Bank offshore of central California. This area contains
abundant, nationally significant natural resources, including many
threatened or endangered species, such as blue whales, snowy plovers,
black abalone, and leatherback sea turtles, that rely on habitats,
physical features, or prey found in the sanctuary. NOAA has documented
more than 200 shipwrecks in the sanctuary, two of which (*Yankee Blade*
and U.S. Coast Guard Cutter *McCulloch*) are listed on the National
Register of Historic Places.

This region and its abundant resources have been home to coastal,
ocean-going Tribal Nations and Indigenous Peoples for tens of thousands
of years or more. The proposed sanctuary is anticipated to highlight
Chumash and other Indigenous cultures and create opportunities to better
understand and protect ancient village sites that may exist along the
now-submerged paleo-shoreline. The sanctuary was nominated for
designation by the Northern Chumash Tribal Council. NOAA has engaged,
consulted, and worked directly with Tribes and Indigenous Peoples
throughout the entire review process, including engagement with local
Chumash and Salinan Tribes, Indigenous Peoples, and communities and
government-to-government consultation with the Santa Ynez Band of
Chumash Indians. NOAA, under the preferred alternative, would manage the
sanctuary through a co-stewardship framework.  Earlier this week, the
National Marine Sanctuaries Foundation
[announced](https://marinesanctuary.org/news/foundation-announces-new-sanctuary-community-fund/)
the establishment of the Sanctuary Community Fund, through which an
initial $2 million in funding from the President’s Inflation Reduction
Act will be delivered to support the capacity of local communities to
engage in sanctuaries like this one.

The sanctuary, as described in NOAA’s preferred alternative in the FEIS,
would include protections that are similar to those in existing
regulations for the adjacent Monterey Bay and Channel Islands National
Marine Sanctuaries. The new sanctuary would guard against ecologically
detrimental activities, including new offshore oil and gas development,
seabed disturbance, discharges, disturbance to submerged maritime
heritage resources, attracting a white shark, and introducing an
introduced species, while allowing for enjoyment and use of the
sanctuary for other recreational and commercial activities. The rules
proposed for the sanctuary do not include any new fishing or boating
regulations.

The Chumash Heritage National Marine Sanctuary, as discussed in the
FEIS, is expected to balance compatible ocean uses and cultural heritage
considerations. Through a two-phased approach to the designation of the
National Marine Sanctuary, the preferred approach to the sanctuary would
protect the natural and cultural resources of the area and maintain
opportunities for offshore wind development. This effort demonstrates
the Biden-Harris Administration’s commitment to combating the climate
crisis by advancing both conservation and responsible clean energy
development. Yesterday, the Biden-Harris Administration announced the
10th approval of a commercial-scale offshore wind project. With that
approval, the Administration has now approved more than 15 gigawatts of
permitted offshore wind projects – enough to power 5.25 million homes,
and capacity equivalent to half of the capacity needed to achieve the 30
gigawatt goal.  This progress shows our nation is more than capable of
meeting both our conservation and climate goals while building a clean
energy economy that lowers energy costs, reduces emissions, and protects
and conserves our lands and waters. 

**The Biden-Harris Administration’s Ocean Achievements**

*Ocean protection*

Since the launch of the America the Beautiful initiative in early 2021,
the U.S. has experienced one of the most rapid accelerations of
conservation progress in the nation’s history, with more than 42 million
acres of land and water conserved in just over three years. President
Biden understands that the ocean is central to our fight against the
climate crisis and to creating a cleaner, safer, and healthier future.
Ocean protection highlights by the Biden-Harris Administration include:

-   **Created two new National Marine Sanctuaries** **and a new national
    estuarine research reserve.** [Lake Ontario National Marine
    Sanctuary](https://sanctuaries.noaa.gov/news/jun24/introducing-lake-ontario-sanctuary.html) –
    whose [designation
    ceremony](https://sanctuaries.noaa.gov/lake-ontario/celebrate.html)
    is taking place today – celebrates the region’s maritime cultural
    history and provides new opportunities for research, education,
    recreation, and maritime heritage-related tourism in local coastal
    communities and the broader Great Lakes region. The [Wisconsin
    Shipwreck Coast National Marine
    Sanctuary](https://sanctuaries.noaa.gov/wisconsin/) provides
    stewardship for our nation’s maritime heritage in Lake Michigan. The
    [Connecticut National Estuarine Research
    Reserve](https://estuarineresearchreserve.center.uconn.edu/)
    protects part of Long Island Sound and the Thames and Connecticut
    Rivers.
-   **Protected the U.S. Arctic Ocean** from future oil and gas leasing.
    Using his authority under Section 12(a) of the Outer Continental
    Shelf Lands Act, President Biden
    [designated](https://www.doi.gov/pressreleases/biden-harris-administration-announces-sweeping-protections-16-million-acres-land-and)
    approximately 2.8 million acres of the Beaufort Sea in the Arctic
    Ocean as indefinitely off limits for future oil and gas leasing,
    completing protections for the entire U.S. Arctic Ocean.

<!-- -->

-   **Taken steps to create one of the largest marine protected areas on
    the planet** in the Pacific Ocean southwest of Hawaiˋi. The
    President [started the
    process](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/03/24/memorandum-on-conserving-the-natural-and-cultural-heritage-of-the-pacific-remote-islands/)
    to consider designating approximately 700,000 square miles of the
    area as a new National Marine Sanctuary.  If the sanctuary is
    completed, it would conserve more than 700,000 square miles of
    significant natural and cultural resources and honor the traditional
    practices and ancestral pathways of Pacific Island voyagers.
-   **Preserved Bristol Bay salmon fisheries**: The U.S. Environmental
    Protection Agency [acted to help protect Bristol
    Bay](https://www.epa.gov/newsreleases/biden-harris-administration-announces-action-help-protect-bristol-bay-salmon-fisheries),
    the most productive wild salmon ecosystem in the world. This step
    protects certain waters that are important to sustaining Southwest
    Alaska’s salmon resources from contamination associated with
    developing the Pebble Project.
-   **Advanced designations for three additional sanctuaries** in the
    [Hudson Canyon](https://sanctuaries.noaa.gov/hudson-canyon/), [Lake
    Erie](https://sanctuaries.noaa.gov/lake-erie/), and within the
    [Papahānaumokuākea Marine National
    Monument](https://www.noaa.gov/news-release/noaa-proposes-national-marine-sanctuary-in-papahnaumokukea).
-   **Restored protections** to the [Northeast Canyons and Seamounts
    Marine National
    Monument](https://www.noaa.gov/news-release/biden-harris-administration-proposes-management-plan-environmental-assessment-for-northeast-canyons),
    to safeguard the unique biodiversity of the deep canyons and the
    surrounding waters that teem with life, and finalized this
    monument’s management plan.
-   **Finalized long-term collaborative management and community
    stewardship** of the Mariana Trench Marine National Monument by
    [releasing the final management
    plan](https://www.fisheries.noaa.gov/media-release/biden-harris-administration-publishes-final-management-plan-mariana-trench-marine)
    in collaboration with the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana
    Islands.

*Combating climate change*

To advance the President’s commitment to ocean climate action, in March
2023, the White House released the first-ever [Ocean Climate Action
Plan](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/03/Ocean-Climate-Action-Plan_Final.pdf)
(OCAP), a groundbreaking roadmap to harness the power and capacity of
the ocean to address the climate crisis. The plan outlined new actions
on the Biden-Harris Administration’s ocean climate priorities. [One year
later](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/04/OCAP-Progress-Report_April-2024.pdf),
the bold goals and ambitious actions set forth in the OCAP are well
underway, complemented by other strategies including the [National Ocean
Biodiversity
Strategy](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/06/NSTC_National-Ocean-Biodiversity-Strategy.pdf),
the [National Aquatic Environmental DNA
Strategy](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/06/NSTC_National-Aquatic-eDNA-Strategy.pdf),
and the [National Strategy for a Sustainable Ocean
Economy](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/06/National-Stategy-for-a-Sustainable-Ocean-Economy_Final.pdf). 

As the first comprehensive U.S. strategy to use the power of the ocean
and coasts to address and respond to a changing climate, the OCAP has
furthered Administration priorities on tackling climate change,
advancing equity and environmental justice, and bolstering the U.S.
economy. Highlights from the past year of accomplishments include:

-   **Advancing environmental justice** through the release of the first
    ever [Ocean Justice
    Strategy](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/12/Ocean-Justice-Strategy.pdf?cb=1701982354),
    which provides a framework for achieving equitable access to the
    benefits of a healthy ocean and coastal ecosystem in order to
    address the historic inequities for many communities that are
    dependent on our ocean and Great Lakes.
-   **Scaling up the offshore wind energy industry** to create a clean
    energy future, including working with Tribes, states and ocean users
    to undertake thoughtful processes that have facilitated the approval
    of [ten commercial-scale offshore wind
    projects](https://www.doi.gov/pressreleases/biden-harris-administration-marks-major-milestones-offshore-wind-approves-tenth)
    in federal waters along the nation’s coasts that combined have the
    potential to add 15 gigawatts (GW) of clean energy to the nation’s
    grid – enough to power 5.25 million homes each year, and equivalent
    to half of the capacity needed to achieve the 30 gigawatt goal. The
    Administration is collaborating with local, state, and Tribal
    governments, fishing and wind industries, and other ocean users to
    ensure that our offshore wind progress meets the needs of all users
    of coasts and ocean waters.
-   **Advancing the decarbonization of the U.S. marine transportation
    system** through a [$3
    billion](https://www.epa.gov/ports-initiative/cleanports) investment
    in clean U.S. ports.
-   **Enhancing community resilience** to ocean change through a
    historic [$2.6 billion
    framework](https://www.noaa.gov/news-releases/noaa-ira-framework-2023)
    being implemented by NOAA and the Department of Commerce that seeks
    to protect coastal communities and restore marine resources,
    including nearly $400 million for Tribal priorities. This work
    advances the Biden-Harris Administration’s [National Climate
    Resilience
    Framework](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/09/National-Climate-Resilience-Framework-FINAL.pdf),
    which helps to align climate resilience investments across the
    public and private sector through common principles and
    opportunities for action to build a climate-resilient nation. These
    efforts are backed by President Biden’s Investing in America agenda,
    through which more than $50 billion is being delivered to advance
    climate adaptation and resilience across the nation, including in
    communities that are the most vulnerable to climate impacts.
-   **Addressing and mitigating the impacts of a changing climate**
    through the establishment of a [Marine Carbon Dioxide Removal Fast
    Track Action
    Committee](https://www.whitehouse.gov/ostp/news-updates/2023/10/06/marine-carbon-dioxide-removal-potential-ways-to-harness-the-ocean-to-mitigate-climate-change/)
    and the release of the [U.S. Ocean Acidification Action
    Plan](https://www.state.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/12/Ocean-Acidification-Action-Plan.pdf).
-   **Coordinating and accelerating measurements of greenhouse gases**
    to track progress in achieving the Administration’s historically
    ambitious goals and enable faster progress where feasible, through
    establishment of a [National Strategy to Enhance the Nation’s
    Greenhouse Gas Measurement and Monitoring
    Capabilities](https://www.whitehouse.gov/ostp/news-updates/2023/11/29/biden-harris-administration-releases-national-strategy-to-enhance-the-nations-greenhouse-gas-measurement-and-monitoring-capabilities/).

\###
