---
date: '2024-09-21'
published_time: 2024-09-21 18:58:37-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/09/21/the-wilmington-declaration-joint-statement-from-the-leaders-of-australia-india-japan-and-the-united-states/
tags: statements-releases
title: "The Wilmington Declaration Joint Statement from the Leaders of Australia,\
  \ India, Japan, and the United\_States"
---
 
Today, we—Prime Minister Anthony Albanese of Australia, Prime Minister
Narendra Modi of India, Prime Minister Kishida Fumio of Japan, and
President Joseph R. Biden, Jr. of the United States—met for the fourth
in-person Quad Leaders Summit, hosted by President Biden in Wilmington,
Delaware.

Four years since elevating the Quad to a leader-level format, the Quad
is more strategically aligned than ever before and is a force for good
that delivers real, positive, and enduring impact for the Indo-Pacific.
We celebrate the fact that over just four years, Quad countries have
built a vital and enduring regional grouping that will buttress the
Indo-Pacific for decades to come.

Anchored by shared values, we seek to uphold the international order
based on the rule of law. Together we represent nearly two billion
people and over one-third of global gross domestic product. We reaffirm
our steadfast commitment to a free and open Indo-Pacific that is
inclusive and resilient. Through our cooperation, the Quad is harnessing
all of our collective strengths and resources, from governments to the
private sector to people-to-people relationships, to support the
region’s sustainable development, stability, and prosperity by
delivering tangible benefits to the people of the Indo-Pacific.

As four leading maritime democracies in the Indo-Pacific, we
unequivocally stand for the maintenance of peace and stability across
this dynamic region, as an indispensable element of global security and
prosperity. We strongly oppose any destabilizing or unilateral actions
that seek to change the status quo by force or coercion. We condemn
recent illicit missile launches in the region that violate UN Security
Council resolutions. We express serious concern over recent dangerous
and aggressive actions in the maritime domain. We seek a region where no
country dominates and no country is dominated—one where all countries
are free from coercion, and can exercise their agency to determine their
futures. We are united in our commitment to upholding a stable and open
international system, with its strong support for human rights, the
principle of freedom, rule of law, democratic values, sovereignty and
territorial integrity, and peaceful settlement of disputes and
prohibition on the threat or use of force in accordance with
international law, including the UN Charter.

Reflecting the Vision Statement issued by Leaders at the 2023 Quad
Summit, we are and will continue to be transparent in what we do.
Respect for the leadership of regional institutions, including the
Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN), the Pacific Islands
Forum (PIF), and the Indian Ocean Rim Association (IORA), is and will
remain at the center of the Quad’s efforts.

**<u>A Global Force for Good</u>**

**Health Security**

The COVID-19 pandemic reminded the world how important health security
is to our societies, our economies, and the stability of our region. In
2021 and 2022, the Quad came together to deliver more than 400 million
safe and effective COVID-19 doses to Indo-Pacific countries and almost
800 million vaccines globally, and provided $5.6 billion to the COVAX
Advance Market Commitment for vaccine supply to low and middle-income
countries. In 2023, we announced the Quad Health Security Partnership,
through which the Quad continues to deliver for partners across the
region, including through the delivery of pandemic preparedness
training.

In response to the current clade I mpox outbreak, as well as the ongoing
clade II mpox outbreak, we plan to coordinate our efforts to promote
equitable access to safe, effective, quality-assured mpox vaccines,
including where appropriate expanding vaccine manufacturing in low and
middle-income countries.

Today we are proud to announce the Quad Cancer Moonshot, a
groundbreaking partnership to save lives in the Indo-Pacific region.
Building on the Quad’s successful partnership during the COVID-19
pandemic, our collective investments to address cancer in the region,
our scientific and medical capabilities, and contributions from our
private and non-profit sectors, we will collaborate with partner nations
to reduce the burden of cancer in the region.

The Quad Cancer Moonshot will focus initially on combatting cervical
cancer—a preventable cancer that continues to claim too many lives—in
the Indo-Pacific region, while laying the groundwork to address other
forms of cancer as well. The United States intends to support this
initiative, including through U.S. Navy medical trainings and
professional exchanges around cervical cancer prevention in the region
starting in 2025, and through U.S. International Development Finance
Corporation (DFC) openness to finance eligible private sector-driven
projects to prevent, diagnose, and treat cancer, including cervical
cancer. Australia is announcing the expansion of the Elimination
Partnership in the Indo-Pacific for Cervical Cancer Program (EPICC) with
support of the Australian Government and the Minderoo Foundation to AUD
29.6 million, to cover up to eleven countries in the Indo-Pacific in
helping advance the elimination of cervical cancer and support
complementary initiatives focused on cancer prevention, diagnosis, and
treatment. India commits to providing HPV sampling kits, detection kits,
and cervical cancer vaccines worth $7.5 million to the Indo-Pacific
region.  India, through its $10 million commitment to the WHO’s Global
Initiative on Digital Health, will offer technical assistance to
interested countries in the Indo-Pacific region for the adoption and
deployment of its Digital Public Infrastructure that helps in cancer
screening and care. Japan is providing medical equipment, including CT
and MRI scanners, and other assistance worth approximately $27 million,
including in Cambodia, Vietnam, and Timor-Leste, and is contributing to
international organizations such as the Gavi Vaccine Alliance. Quad
partners also intend to work, within respective national contexts, to
collaborate in advancing research and development in the area of cancer
and to increase private sector and non-governmental sector activities in
support of reducing the burden of cervical cancer in the region. We
welcome a number of new, ambitious commitments from non-governmental
institutions, including the Serum Institute of India, in partnership
with Gavi, which will support orders of up to 40 million HPV vaccine
doses, subject to necessary approvals, for the Indo-Pacific region, and
which may be increased consistent with demand. We also welcome a new
$100 million commitment from Women’s Health and Empowerment Network to
address cervical cancer in Southeast Asia.

Altogether, our scientific experts assess that the Quad Cancer Moonshot
will save hundreds of thousands of lives over the coming decades.

**Humanitarian Assistance and Disaster Relief (HADR)**

Twenty years since the 2004 Indian Ocean earthquake and tsunami, when
the Quad first came together to surge humanitarian assistance, we
continue to respond to the vulnerabilities caused by natural disasters
in the Indo-Pacific. In 2022, the Quad established the “Quad Partnership
on Humanitarian Assistance and Disaster Relief in the Indo-Pacific” and
signed Guidelines for the Quad Partnership on HADR in the Indo-Pacific,
which enable Quad countries to rapidly coordinate in the face of natural
disasters. We welcome Quad governments working to ensure readiness to
rapidly respond, including through pre-positioning of essential relief
supplies, in the event of a natural disaster; this effort extends from
the Indian Ocean region, to Southeast Asia, to the Pacific.

In May 2024, following a tragic landslide in Papua New Guinea, Quad
partners collectively contributed over $5 million in humanitarian
assistance. Quad partners are working together to provide over $4
million in humanitarian assistance to support the people of Vietnam in
light of the devastating consequences of Typhoon Yagi. The Quad
continues to support partners in the region in their longer-term
resiliency efforts.

**Maritime Security**

In 2022, we announced the Indo-Pacific Partnership for Maritime Domain
Awareness (IPMDA) to offer near-real-time, integrated, and
cost-effective maritime domain awareness information to partners in the
region. Since then, in consultation with partners, we have successfully
scaled the program across the Indo-Pacific region—through the Pacific
Islands Forum Fisheries Agency, with partners in Southeast Asia, to the
Information Fusion Center—Indian Ocean Region, Gurugram. In doing so,
the Quad has helped well over two dozen countries access dark vessel
maritime domain awareness data, so they can better monitor the
activities in their exclusive economic zones—including unlawful
activity. Australia commits to boosting its cooperation with the Pacific
Islands Forum Fisheries Agency to enhance regional maritime domain
awareness in the Pacific through satellite data, training, and capacity
building.

Today we are announcing a new regional Maritime Initiative for Training
in the Indo-Pacific (MAITRI), to enable our partners in the region to
maximize tools provided through IPMDA and other Quad partner
initiatives, to monitor and secure their waters, enforce their laws, and
deter unlawful behavior. We look forward to India hosting the inaugural
MAITRI workshop in 2025. Furthermore, we welcome the launch of a Quad
maritime legal dialogue to support efforts to uphold the rules-based
maritime order in the Indo-Pacific. In addition, Quad partners intend to
layer new technology and data into IPMDA over the coming year, to
continue to deliver cutting edge capability and information to the
region.

We are also announcing today that the U.S. Coast Guard, Japan Coast
Guard, Australian Border Force, and Indian Coast Guard, plan to launch a
first-ever Quad-at-Sea Ship Observer Mission in 2025, to improve
interoperability and advance maritime safety, and continuing with
further missions in future years across the Indo-Pacific.  

We also announce today the launch of a Quad Indo-Pacific Logistics
Network pilot project, to pursue shared airlift capacity among our
nations and leverage our collective logistics strengths, in order to
support civilian response to natural disasters more rapidly and
efficiently across the Indo-Pacific region.

**Quality Infrastructure**

The Quad remains committed to improving the region’s connectivity
through the development of quality, resilient infrastructure.

We are pleased to announce the Quad Ports of the Future Partnership,
which will harness the Quad’s expertise to support sustainable and
resilient port infrastructure development across the Indo-Pacific, in
collaboration with regional partners. In 2025, we intend to hold a Quad
Regional Ports and Transportation Conference, hosted by India in Mumbai.
Through this new partnership, Quad partners intend to coordinate,
exchange information, share best practices with partners in the region,
and leverage resources to mobilize government and private sector
investments in quality port infrastructure across the Indo-Pacific
region.

We applaud the expansion of the Quad Infrastructure Fellowships to more
than 2,200 experts, and note that Quad partners have already provided
well over 1,300 fellowships since the initiative was announced at last
year’s Summit. We also appreciate the workshop organized by the
Coalition for Disaster Resilient Infrastructure in India, working to
empower partners across the Indo-Pacific to strengthen power sector
resilience.

Through the Quad Partnership for Cable Connectivity and Resilience, we
continue to support and strengthen quality undersea cable networks in
the Indo-Pacific, the capacity, durability, and reliability of which are
inextricably linked to the security and prosperity of the region and the
world. In support of these efforts, Australia launched the Cable
Connectivity and Resilience Centre in July, which is delivering
workshops and policy and regulatory assistance in response to requests
from across the region. Japan will extend technical cooperation to
improve public ICT infrastructure management capacity for an undersea
cable in Nauru and Kiribati. The United States has conducted over 1,300
capacity building trainings for telecommunication officials and
executives from 25 countries in the Indo-Pacific; today the U.S.
announces its intent, working with Congress, to invest an additional
$3.4 million to extend and expand this training program.

Investments in cable projects by Quad partners will help support all
Pacific island countries in achieving primary telecommunication cable
connectivity by the end of 2025. Since the last Quad Leaders’ Summit,
Quad partners have committed over $140 million to undersea cable builds
in the Pacific, alongside contributions from other likeminded partners.
Complementing these investments in new undersea cables, India has
commissioned a feasibility study to examine expansion of undersea cable
maintenance and repair capabilities in the Indo-Pacific.

We reaffirm our support for the Pacific Quality Infrastructure
Principles, which are an expression of Pacific voices on infrastructure.

We underscore our commitment to an inclusive, open, sustainable, fair,
safe, reliable and secure digital future to advance our shared
prosperity and sustainable development across the Indo-Pacific. In this
context, we welcome the Quad Principles for Development and Deployment
of Digital Public Infrastructure.

**Critical and Emerging Technologies**

Today, we are proud to announce an ambitious expansion of our
partnership to deliver trusted technology solutions to the broader
Indo-Pacific region.

Last year, Quad partners launched a landmark initiative to deploy the
first Open Radio Access Network (RAN) in the Pacific, in Palau, to
support a secure, resilient, and interconnected telecommunications
ecosystem. Since then, the Quad has pledged approximately $20 million to
this effort.

Quad partners also welcome the opportunity to explore additional Open
RAN projects in Southeast Asia. We plan to expand support for ongoing
Open RAN field trials and the Asia Open RAN Academy (AORA) in the
Philippines, building on the initial $8 million in support that the
United States and Japan pledged earlier this year. The United States
also plans to invest over $7 million to support the global expansion of
AORA, including through establishing a first-of-its-kind Open RAN
workforce training initiative at scale in South Asia, in partnership
with Indian institutions.

Quad partners will also explore collaborating with the Tuvalu
Telecommunications Corporation to ensure the country’s readiness for
nationwide 5G deployment.

We remain committed to advancing our cooperation on semiconductors
through better leveraging of our complementary strengths to realize a
diversified and competitive market and enhance resilience of Quad’s
semiconductor supply chains. We welcome a Memorandum of Cooperation
between Quad countries for the Semiconductor Supply Chains Contingency
Network.

Through the Advancing Innovations for Empowering NextGen Agriculture
(AI-ENGAGE) initiative announced at last year’s Summit, our governments
are deepening leading-edge collaborative research to harness artiﬁcial
intelligence, robotics, and sensing to transform agricultural approaches
and empower farmers across the Indo-Pacific. We are pleased to announce
an inaugural $7.5+ million in funding opportunities for joint research,
and welcome the recent signing of a Memorandum of Cooperation between
our science agencies to connect our research communities and advance
shared research principles.

The United States, Australia, India, and Japan look forward to launching
the Quad BioExplore Initiative—a funded mechanism that will support
joint AI-driven exploration of diverse non-human biological data across
all four countries.

This project will also be underpinned by the forthcoming Quad Principles
for Research and Development Collaborations in Critical and Emerging
Technologies.

**Climate and Clean Energy**

As we underscore the severe economic, social, and environmental
consequences posed by the climate crisis, we continue to work together
with Indo-Pacific partners, including through Quad Climate Change
Adaptation and Mitigation Package (Q-CHAMP), to enhance climate and
clean energy cooperation as well as promote adaptation and resilience.
We emphasize the significant benefits of transitioning to a clean energy
economy for our people, our planet, and our shared prosperity. Our
countries intend to strengthen our cooperation to align policies,
incentives, standards, and investments around creating high-quality,
diversified clean energy supply chains that will enhance our collective
energy security, create new economic opportunities across the region,
and benefit local workers and communities around the world, particularly
across the Indo-Pacific.

We will work together, through policy and public finance, to
operationalize our commitment to catalyzing complementary and
high-standard private sector investment in allied and partner clean
energy supply chains. To this end, Australia will open applications for
the Quad Clean Energy Supply Chains Diversification Program in November,
providing AUD 50 million to support projects that develop and diversify
solar panel, hydrogen electrolyzer and battery supply chains in the
Indo-Pacific. India commits to invest $2 million in new solar projects
in Fiji, Comoros, Madagascar, and Seychelles. Japan has committed to
$122 million grants and loans in renewable energy projects in
Indo-Pacific countries. The United States, through DFC, will continue to
seek opportunities to mobilize private capital to solar, as well as
wind, cooling, batteries, and critical minerals to expand and diversify
supply chains.

We are pleased to announce a focused Quad effort to boost energy
efficiency, including the deployment and manufacturing of
high-efficiency affordable, cooling systems to enable climate-vulnerable
communities to adapt to rising temperatures while simultaneously
reducing strain on the electricity grid.

We jointly affirm our commitment to addressing the challenges posed by
climate change and ensure the resilience and sustainability of port
infrastructure. Quad partners will leverage our learning and expertise
to forge a path towards sustainable and resilient port infrastructure,
including through the Coalition for Disaster Resilient Infrastructure
(CDRI).

**Cyber**

In the face of a deteriorating security environment in the cyber domain,
Quad countries intend to enhance our cybersecurity partnership to
address common threats posed by state-sponsored actors, cybercriminals,
and other non-state malicious actors. Our countries commit to taking
concrete steps to increase our collective network defense and advance
technical capabilities through greater threat information sharing and
capacity building. We plan to coordinate joint efforts to identify
vulnerabilities, protect national security networks and critical
infrastructure networks, and coordinate more closely including on policy
responses to significant cybersecurity incidents affecting the Quad’s
shared priorities.

Quad countries are also partnering with software manufacturers, industry
trade groups, and research centers to expand our commitmentto pursuing
secure software development standards and certification, as endorsed in
the Quad’s 2023 Secure Software Joint Principles. We will work to
harmonize these standards to not only ensure that the development,
procurement, and end-use of software for government networks is more
secure, but that the cyber resilience of our supply chains, digital
economies, and societies are collectively improved. Throughout this
fall, Quad countries each plan to host campaigns to mark the annual Quad
Cyber Challenge promoting responsible cyber ecosystems, public
resources, and cybersecurity awareness. We are constructively engaging
on the Quad Action Plan to Protect Commercial Undersea
Telecommunications Cables, developed by the Quad Senior Cyber Group, as
a complementary effort to the Quad Partnership for Cable Connectivity
and Resilience. Our coordinated actions to protect global
telecommunications infrastructure as guided by the Action Plan will
advance our shared vision for future digital connectivity, global
commerce, and prosperity. 

**Space**

We recognize the essential contribution of space-related applications
and technologies in the Indo-Pacific. Our four countries intend to
continue delivering Earth Observation data and other space-related
applications to assist nations across the Indo-Pacific to strengthen
climate early warning systems and better manage the impacts of extreme
weather events. In this context, we welcome India’s establishment of a
space-based web portal for Mauritius, to support the concept of open
science for space-based monitoring of extreme weather events and climate
impact.

**Quad Investors Network (QUIN)**

We welcome private sector initiatives—including the Quad Investors
Network (QUIN), which facilitates investments in strategic technologies,
including clean energy, semiconductors, critical minerals, and quantum.
The QUIN is mobilizing a number of investments to promote supply chain
resilience, advance joint research and development, commercialize new
technologies, and invest in our future workforce.

**People-to-People Initiatives**

The Quad is committed to strengthening the deep and enduring ties
between our people, and among our partners. Through the Quad Fellowship,
we are building a network of the next generation of science, technology,
and policy leaders. Together with the Institute of International
Education, which leads implementation of the Quad Fellowship, Quad
governments welcome the second cohort of Quad Fellows and the expansion
of the program to include students from ASEAN countries for the first
time. The Government of Japan is supporting the program to enable Quad
Fellows to study in Japan. The Quad welcomes the generous support of
private sector partners for the next cohort of fellows, including
Google, the Pratt Foundation, and Western Digital.

India is pleased to announce a new initiative to award fifty Quad
scholarships, worth $500,000, to students from the Indo-Pacific to
pursue a 4-year undergraduate engineering program at a Government of
India-funded technical institution.

**<u>Working Together to Address Regional and Global Issues</u>**

Today we reaffirm our consistent and unwavering support for ASEAN
centrality and unity. We continue to support implementation of the ASEAN
Outlook on the Indo-Pacific (AOIP) and are committed to ensuring the
Quad’s work is aligned with ASEAN’s principles and priorities.

We underscore ASEAN’s regional leadership role, including in the East
Asia Summit, the region’s premier leader-led forum for strategic
dialogue, and the ASEAN Regional Forum. As comprehensive strategic
partners of ASEAN, our four countries intend to continue to strengthen
our respective relationships with ASEAN and seek opportunities for
greater Quad collaboration in support of the AOIP.

We recommit to working in partnership with Pacific island countries to
achieve shared aspirations and address shared challenges. We reaffirm
our support for Pacific regional institutions that have served the
region well over many years, with the PIF as the region’s premier
political and economic policy organization, and warmly welcome Tonga’s
leadership as the current PIF Chair in 2024-2025. We continue to support
the objectives of the 2050 Strategy for the Blue Pacific Continent. We
and our governments will continue to listen to and be guided at every
step by Pacific priorities, including climate action, ocean health,
resilient infrastructure, maritime security and financial integrity. In
particular, we acknowledge climate change remains the single greatest
threat to the livelihoods, security and wellbeing of the peoples of the
Pacific and applaud Pacific island countries’ global leadership on
climate action.

  
We remain committed to strengthening cooperation in the Indian Ocean
region. We strongly support IORA as the Indian Ocean region’s premier
forum for addressing the region’s challenges. We recognize India’s
leadership in finalizing the IORA Outlook on the Indo-Pacific (IOIP) and
express our support for its implementation. We thank Sri Lanka for its
continued leadership as IORA Chair through this year and look forward to
India’s assuming the IORA Chair in 2025.  

As Leaders, we are steadfast in our conviction that international law,
including respect for sovereignty and territorial integrity, and the
maintenance of peace, safety, security and stability in the maritime
domain, underpin the sustainable development, and prosperity of the
Indo-Pacific. We emphasize the importance of adherence to international
law, particularly as reflected in the United Nations Convention on the
Law of the Sea (UNCLOS), to address challenges to the global maritime
rules-based order, including with respect to maritime claims. We are
seriously concerned about the situation in the East and South China
Seas. We continue to express our serious concern about the
militarization of disputed features, and coercive and intimidating
maneuvers in the South China Sea. We condemn the dangerous use of coast
guard and maritime militia vessels, including increasing use of
dangerous maneuvers. We also oppose efforts to disrupt other countries’
offshore resource exploitation activities.We reaffirm that maritime
disputes must be resolved peacefully and in accordance with
international law, as reflected in UNCLOS. We re-emphasize the
importance of maintaining and upholding freedom of navigation and
overflight, other lawful uses of the sea, and unimpeded commerce
consistent with international law. We re-emphasize the universal and
unified character of UNCLOS and reaffirm that UNCLOS sets out the legal
framework within which all activities in the oceans and the seas must be
carried out. We underscore that the 2016 Arbitral Award on the South
China Sea is a significant milestone and the basis for peacefully
resolving disputes between the parties.

  
Together, with our global and regional partners, we continue to support
international institutions and initiatives that underpin global peace,
prosperity and sustainable development. We reiterate our unwavering
support for the UN Charter and the three pillars of the UN system. In
consultation with our partners, we will work collectively to address
attempts to unilaterally undermine the integrity of the UN, its Charter,
and its agencies. We will reform the UN Security Council, recognizing
the urgent need to make it more representative, inclusive, transparent,
efficient, effective, democratic and accountable through expansion in
permanent and non-permanent categories of membership of the UN Security
Council. This expansion of permanent seats should include representation
for Africa, Asia, Latin America and the Caribbean in a reformed Security
Council.

We stand for adherence to international law and respect for principles
of the UN Charter, including territorial integrity, sovereignty of all
states, and peaceful resolution of disputes. We express our deepest
concern over the war raging in Ukraine including the terrible and tragic
humanitarian consequences. Each of us has visited Ukraine since the war
began, and seen this first-hand; we reiterate the need for a
comprehensive, just, and lasting peace in line with international law,
consistent with the purposes and principles of the UN Charter, including
respect for sovereignty and territorial integrity. We also note the
negative impacts of the war in Ukraine with regard to global food and
energy security, especially for developing and least developed
countries. In the context of this war, we share the view that the use,
or threat of use, of nuclear weapons is unacceptable. We underscore the
importance of upholding international law, and in line with the UN
Charter, reiterate that all states must refrain from the threat of or
use of force against the territorial integrity and sovereignty or
political independence of any state.

We condemn North Korea’s destabilizing ballistic missile launches and
its continued pursuit of nuclear weapons in violation of multiple UN
Security Council resolutions (UNSCRs). These launches pose a grave
threat to international peace and stability. We urge North Korea to
abide by all its obligations under the UNSCRs, refrain from further
provocations and engage in substantive dialogue. We reaffirm our
commitment to the complete denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula
consistent with relevant UNSCRs and call on all countries to fully
implement these UNSCRs. We stress the need to prevent any proliferation
of nuclear and missile technologies related to North Korea in the region
and beyond. We express our grave concern over North Korea’s use of
proliferation networks, malicious cyber activity and workers abroad to
fund its unlawful weapons of mass destruction and ballistic missile
programs. In that context, we urge all UN Member States to abide by the
relevant UNSCRs including the prohibition on the transfer to North Korea
or procurement from North Korea of all arms and related materiel. We
express deep concern about countries that are deepening military
cooperation with North Korea, which directly undermines the global
nonproliferation regime. As the mandate of the UN Panel of Experts
tasked with monitoring violations of North Korea-related UNSCR sanctions
was not renewed, we reiterate our commitment to continued implementation
of the relevant UNSCRs which remain in full force. We reconfirm the
necessity of immediate resolution of the abductions issue.

We remain deeply concerned by the worsening political, security and
humanitarian situation in Myanmar, including in Rakhine State, and again
call for an immediate cessation of violence, the release of all those
unjustly and arbitrarily detained, safe and unhindered humanitarian
access, resolution of the crisis through constructive and inclusive
dialogue among all stakeholders, and a return to the path of inclusive
democracy. We reaffirm our strong support for ASEAN-led efforts,
including the work of the ASEAN Chair and the Special Envoy of the ASEAN
Chair on Myanmar. We call for full implementation of all commitments
under the ASEAN Five-Point Consensus. The ongoing conflict and
instability have serious implications for the region, including
increases in transnational crime such as cybercrime, the illegal drug
trade, and human trafficking. We restate our appeal to all States to
prevent the flow of arms and dual-use material, including jet fuel. We
remain resolute in our support for the people of Myanmar and commit to
continuing to work with all stakeholders in a pragmatic and constructive
way, to find a sustainable solution to the crisis in a process which is
led by the people of Myanmar and returns Myanmar to the path of
democracy.

We call upon all States to contribute to the safe, peaceful,
responsible, and sustainable use of outer space. We remain committed to
fostering international cooperation and transparency, as well as
confidence-building measures with the goal of improving the security of
outer space for all States. We reaffirm the importance of upholding the
existing international legal framework for outer space activities,
including the Outer Space Treaty, and the obligation of all States
Parties to the Treaty not to place in orbit around the Earth any objects
carrying nuclear weapons or any other kinds of weapons of mass
destruction, install such weapons on celestial bodies, or station such
weapons in outer space in any other manner.

The Quad reaffirms its commitment to fostering a resilient information
environment including through its Countering Disinformation Working
Group by supporting media freedom and addressing foreign information
manipulation and interference, including disinformation, which
undermines trust and sows discord in the international community. We
recognize these tactics are intended to interfere with domestic and
international interests, and we are committed, together with our
regional partners, to leverage our collective expertise and capacity to
respond. We reaffirm our commitment to respect international human
rights law, strengthen civil society, support media freedom, address
online harassment and abuse, including technology-facilitated
gender-based violence, and counter unethical practices.

We unequivocally condemn terrorism and violent extremism in all its
forms and manifestations, including cross-border terrorism. We are
committed to international cooperation and will work with our regional
partners in a comprehensive and sustained manner to strengthen their
capability to prevent, detect and respond to threats posed by terrorism
and violent extremism, including threats posed by the use of new and
emerging technologies for terrorist purposes, consistent with
international law. We are committed to working together to promote
accountability for the perpetrators of such terrorist attacks. We
reiterate our condemnation of terrorist attacks including the 26/11
attacks in Mumbai and in Pathankot, and our commitment to pursuing
designations, as appropriate, by the UN Security Council 1267 Sanctions
Committee.  We welcome the constructive discussions held at the first
Quad Working Group on Counter-Terrorism and the fourth tabletop exercise
in Honolulu last year, and look forward to Japan hosting the next
meeting and tabletop exercise in November 2024.

We share great interest in achieving peace and stability in the Middle
East. We unequivocally condemn the terror attacks on October 7, 2023.
The large-scale loss of civilian lives and the humanitarian crisis in
Gaza is unacceptable. We affirm the imperative of securing the release
of all hostages held by Hamas, and emphasize that the deal to release
hostages would bring an immediate and prolonged ceasefire in Gaza. We
underscore the urgent need to significantly increase deliveries of
life-saving humanitarian assistance throughout Gaza as well as the
crucial need to prevent regional escalation. We urge all parties to
comply with international law, including international humanitarian law,
as applicable. We welcome UNSCR S/RES/2735 (2024), and strongly urge all
parties concerned to work immediately and steadily toward the release of
all hostages and an immediate ceasefire. We call on all parties to take
every feasible step to protect the lives of civilians including aid
workers, and facilitate the rapid, safe and unimpeded humanitarian
relief to civilians. We also encourage other countries, including those
in the Indo-Pacific, to increase their support in order to address the
dire humanitarian need on the ground. We underscore that the future
recovery and reconstruction of Gaza should be supported by the
international community. We remain committed to a sovereign, viable and
independent Palestinian state taking into account Israel’s legitimate
security concerns as part of a two-state solution that enables both
Israelis and Palestinians to live in a just, lasting, and secure peace.
Any unilateral actions that undermine the prospect of a two-state
solution, including Israeli expansion of settlements and violent
extremism on all sides, must end. We underscore the need to prevent the
conflict from escalating and spilling over in the region.

We condemn the ongoing attacks perpetrated by the Houthis and their
supporters against international and commercial vessels transiting
through the Red Sea and Gulf of Aden, which are destabilizing the region
and impeding navigational rights and freedoms and trade flows, and
jeopardize the safety of vessels and people on board including sailors.

We reaffirm our commitment to the implementation of the 2030 Agenda and
the achievement of its Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). We
underscore the importance of achieving the SDGs in a comprehensive
manner without selectively prioritizing a narrow set of such goals, and
reaffirm that the UN has a central role in supporting countries in their
implementation. With six years left, we remain steadfast in our
commitment to the full implementation of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable
Development and accelerating progress toward all the SDGs in a
comprehensive manner that is balanced across three dimensions –
economic, social and environmental. From global health to sustainable
development and climate change, the global community benefits when all
stakeholders have the opportunity to contribute to addressing these
challenges. We affirm our commitment to contributing to and implementing
the Women, Peace and Security (WPS) Agenda and to achieving gender
equality and the empowerment of all women and girls. We underscore our
commitment to strongly engaging constructively in the discussion on
advancing sustainable development, including at the Summit of the
Future. The Quad continues to realize a safe and secure world where
human rights and human dignity are protected, based on the central
premise of the SDGs: “Leave no one behind.”

We, the Quad Leaders, remain dedicated to working in partnership with
Indo-Pacific countries in deciding our future and shaping the region we
all want to live in.

**<u>Enduring Partners for the Indo-Pacific</u>**

Over the past four years, Quad Leaders have met together six times,
including twice virtually, and Quad Foreign Ministers have met eight
times in the last five years. Quad country representatives meet together
on a regular basis, at all levels, including among ambassadors across
the four countries’ extensive diplomatic networks, to consult one
another, exchange ideas to advance shared priorities, and deliver
benefits with and for partners across the Indo-Pacific region. We
welcome our Commerce and Industry ministers preparing to meet for the
first time in the coming months. We also welcome the leaders of our
Development Finance Institutions and Agencies deciding to meet to
explore future investments by the four countries in the Indo-Pacific.
Altogether, our four countries are cooperating at an unprecedented pace
and scale.

Each of our governments has committed to working through our respective
budgetary processes to secure robust funding for Quad priorities in the
Indo-Pacific region to ensure an enduring impact. We intend to work with
our legislatures to deepen interparliamentary exchanges, and encourage
other stakeholders to deepen engagement with Quad counterparts.

We look forward to the next Quad Foreign Ministers’ meeting hosted by
the United States in 2025, and the next Quad Leaders’ Summit hosted by
India in 2025. The Quad is here to stay.

\###
