---
date: '2024-09-17'
modified_time: 2024-09-17 13:12:24-04:00
published_time: 2024-09-17 13:12:23-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/09/17/remarks-by-president-biden-to-overflow-crowd-at-the-2024-national-hbcu-week-conference-philadelphia-pa/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden to Overflow Crowd at the 2024 National HBCU Week\
  \ Conference | Philadelphia,\_PA"
---
 
Philadelphia Marriott Downtown  
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

2:14 P.M. EDT

THE PRESIDENT:  Hey, everybody.  How are you?  (Applause.) 

Well, look, I think we’re really — not because of me, because of you —
we’re at a real point where things are about to change in a big way in
America.  No, I really mean it.  I really mean it.  I think we have a —
not — not because of me, because of you.

Look, you know, I was thinking about it —

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  It’s because of you.

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, no.  (Applause.)  You’re nice to say that.  But,
look, one of the things that I — (laughter) — one of the things that I —
I think about —

You know, I was born in Scranton, Pennsylvania.  (Applause.)  And in
Scranton, there was a hierarchy, and the bottom of the barrel are
Catholics.  Seriously, because of the way they came in the mines.  The
English own the mines, and so on. And then after that — not just Irish
but other denominations.

And I was raised by a dad who just said, “Look, just get up when you get
knocked down.  Just get up.”  I have a cartoon on my desk my dad gave me
when he showed up at an event at my house.  And I was lamenting, looking
out at the back door at a pond, that my deceased wife couldn’t see the
house because it had water behind it, and she was raised in Skaneateles,
New York, near the water. 

And my dad — what he did was he said, “I’ll be back in a minute.”  I was
about — doing a fundraiser — I think it was my fifth or sixth campaign
for the Senate — at my home.  And he went up to a Hallmark store, which
was in a strip shopping center not far from the house, came back before
anybody got there, and he gave me a framed picture — a framed photograph
— I mean, cartoon characters: Hägar — do you remember Hägar the
Horrible, the Viking? 

And there’s one frame in this — and I’ve had it on my desk for over 20
years.  There’s one frame in that desk — I mean, excuse me, in that — in
that frame that shows Hägar looking up and his Viking — ship has been
hit by lightning, his hair — his helmet is knocked off, he’s looking up
at Heaven and is screaming “Why me?” to God.  In the next frame, the
same scene, but a voice from Heaven coming back and saying, “Why not?” 

Well, that was my dad.  He said — and he came back, and he — and he was
— he was mad that I was lamenting what happened earlier on.  And he
said, “What — why would you be spared with that?  Why?  You just got to
get up.  Get up.”

Well, to me, that exemplifies the African American community I was — I
worked with.  No, I’m not joking.  To me, when I was — there’s a
photograph in my office — (inaudible) Oval Office — of my mom holding
Barack’s hand as we were announced as the next president and vice
president out in Chicago.  She wasn’t even supposed to walk out.  My mom
was 94 years old at the time.

And the photograph reminds me of what she said.  She said to me, after
Barack cleaned my clock in the — (laughter) — and I — and so, he had — I
was — he was — he became the de facto nominee the second week in August,
and I was riding home on the train, which I did every night because
right after I got elected, my wife and daughter were killed and my two
boys were badly injured in an accident, so I started to commute.  And
for over — over 1,200,000 miles on Amtrak every day. 

And — and I was coming out of the Baltimore Tunnel, heading north, and
my phone rang.  It was Barack.  And Barack said, “Joe, I want to do a
background check on you.”  (Laughter.)  I knew what he meant.  He meant
for vice president. 

I said, “Barack, I don’t want to be vice president.  I’ll do anything I
can to help you.  I can help you more as a senior senator.  I’ll bust my
neck for you.  I’m better there for you.” 

He said, “Well, there’s only three of you.”  And I said, “Barack, I
don’t want to be vice president.”  He said, “Well, damn it, it’s only
you.”  (Laughter.)

And I swear to God, I said, “I — I don’t want to be vice president,
Barack.  I really don’t, but I’ll do what I can.”  He said, “Well, do
this.”  He knew my family fairly well.  His — my two — my number three
and four granddaughter are his two daughters’ best friends.  They went
school together.  They always hang out together. 

Anyway, to make a long story short, I — I called my — my mom and dad.  I
mean, my dad had passed.  I called home.  My mom was living with us
because my dad had just passed.  And I said to the family, I said,
“Let’s have a meeting, because Barack just called me about something I
want to talk to you about.”  And he said — he made me promise I’d go
home and talk to them.  He said, “And get back to me in 24, 48 hours at
the latest,” because he knew the family, as I said.

So, we sat in the back porch, and I started off — and I thought that
they’d all agree with me.  And so, I said — I turned to my wife, Jill,
who is the love of my life and the life of my love — (applause) — I
married way above my station.  (Laughter.) 

But all kidding aside, I said, “What do you think?”  She said, “I think
you should take it.”  I said, “Why?”  She said, “If you don’t, he’ll
make you secretary of state, and you’ll never be home.”  (Laughter.) 

Then I went to my deceased son, Beau, who was then attorney general.  He
said, “Dad, you got to do it,” and gave me a lecture of my obligation. 
And my son Hunter, the same thing, and my daughter the same thing.  I
went down the list, and my mom was sitting on the railing on the porch —
by the railing.  I said, “Honey, you haven’t said anything.” 

And she said, “Joey, let me get this straight.”  This is an absolutely
true story — my word as a Biden.  She said, “Joey, remember when you
were 14 years old, and they were desegregating the neighborhood
Lynnfield?”  About eighty homes were built once — once around — you
know, and we lived in an area called Mayfield, the next neighborhood up
in suburban Wilmington and in a split-level home with three kids and a
grandpop living with us — four kids, counting me.

And — and so, I — she said, “Don’t go down there, Joey; there’s —
there’s going to be — there’s protests.”  But I went down, and I got
arrested for standing on the porch with a Black couple because the
police were worried I was going to get hurt.  They brought me home.

I said, “Yeah, I remember that, Mom.  What’s that have to do with
anything?”  She said, “And remember, Joey, you had that job in the
country club as a lifeguard, but you wanted to be the only guy to work
in the projects — in the public housing projects, the swimming pool that
summer — for summer, the only white employee?”  I said, “Yeah, Mom, I
just wanted to learn more.” 

She said, “Joey, let me get this straight.  The first Black man in
American history has a chance to be president and he said he needs you,
and you told him no?”  (Laughter.)  I said —

So, I called him and said yes.  But my generic point is that, you know,
for a lot of us, we come from states that were segregated by law. 
Delaware was a slave state.  Delaware fought on the side of the North
because it couldn’t get to the South, like Maryland and a few other
states. 

And when we moved down from Scranton, Pennsylvania, there were no —
there were no African Americans where I lived in Scranton — virtually
none.  Moving to Delaware, Delaware has the eighth-largest percent of
African Americans of any state in the nation. 

And I remember being dropped — we went and moved to a little steel town
called Claymont, Delaware, when coal died in Scranton and — and died in
Clay- — in Claymont, as well as steel.  But anyway, we would be dropped
off because we were out along what they called the Philadelphia Pike was
too da-  — we were only lived — in a what later became a public housing
project, we only lived probably a quarter mile, maybe half a mile from —
we could have walked, except it was too dangerous crossing the road, so
we would be dropped off in the morning.

Every morning when we’d get dropped off, I’d see a bus go by — at the
time, referred to “colored kids” going by — you know, by the Catholic
school I — grade school I went to.  But they also went by Claymont High
School and Claymont Middle School, which is right up the street.  And I
thought that just — it just struck me as that — that can’t be right.

And from that is what got me engaged, not a joke.  I wasn’t any great
shake.  But, you know, I got involved in the civil rights movement.  I
got involved in — I’d usually go to — go to 7:30 mass at St. Joe’s, and
then I’d get up and go to 10 o’clock mass with Reverend Ha-  — anyway —
at the Black chur- — AME Church, where we’d plan what we were going to
do.

The whole point is that I had the opportunity to get a little glimpse —
just a little glimpse of what it was like and all the talent — all the
talent that I knew.  All those guys who were the lifeguards with me down
at the (inaudible) swimming pool, four of them were all — were honor
students in college.  They were first-rate people. 

And I just got — I wasn’t any great shakes, but I got involved in
desegregating movie theaters, those kinds of things.  And one thing led
to another, and then what happened was — and the reason I’m telling you
this story because I think this is going to be a significant extension,
what we’re doing.

What happened was Delaware was the only state in the nation that had —
was occupied by the military for 10 months after Dr. King was
assassinated, because of the riots.  There was National Guard on every
single corner in Delaware with drawn bayonets.  And I had gotten a job
with a fancy law firm, and I — you have to clerk for six months as a
lawyer before you can even — even if you pass the bar, before you could
be admitted.  And it was the middle of the clerkship, and I — I decided
I just couldn’t do it anymore because I’d look out my window and see the
cops in Rodney Square — or the National Guard, I should say.

So, I remember walking over — a guy named Frannie Kearns ran the public
defender’s office, and I walked in and I sought a job.  It was only part
time.  And he said, “Don’t you work for Prickett, Ward, Burt?”  And I
said, “Yeah.”  He said, “Are you okay?”  (Laughter.)

I said, “Yeah, but I quit and I want — that’s what I wanted to do.”  And
my state was a state that had — was a Democratic Party.  It was a
Southern Democratic Party — southern part of the state — George Wallace
did very well in the state before he was assassinated on the Eastern
Shore. 

And so, what happened was we got — I got engaged, and one thing led to
another.  And I ended up getting involved in trying to change the
Democratic Party to a Northeastern Democratic Party, because it was
split at the time.  And one thing led to another.  I — I was a young
lawyer.  I got to — I joined a group called the New Democratic
Coalition.  And when you’re the youngest lawyer or man or woman in the
room, you get to turn the lights on and off.  (Laughter.)

And one thing led to another, and I kept to try — I started this effort
to try to attract people to begin to run for office in states wher- — in
districts we hadn’t run.  And they came to me and asked me to head up a
group to find somebody to run for the United States Senate.

Make a long story short, no one would do it.  There were some competent
people and very important people that didn’t want to run.  And so, I’m
reporting back to this group all the time. 

And so, I’m down — I go to an off-year convention in the — 1971
convention, the Democratic Party in Dover, Delaware.  I went down with
four guys that I — two were radio guys — anyway, all good men.  They
happened to all be men at the time. 

And — and I — I came back and — after the afternoon meeting, and I went
in to shave and get ready for the evening meeting.  And what happened
was, as I’m going in — I go in — you know, a little — a nice motel, when
you have an 8-by-10 bathroom, a shower, a toilet, a sink.  You know? 
And I’m shaving, and I have a towel around me, getting ready to go
back.  And hear, “Bam, bam, bam,” at the door, and I thought it was Bob
Cunningham and a few other people I came down with kidding with me.

I opened the door, and there were four leaders there.  One family had
more United States senators than any family in American history, the
Tunnells — former Justice Tunnell.  The other was a chairman of the —
was a former governor, a gentleman named Carvel, a great, big guy, was a
moderate guy — a moderate Re- — Democratic member of the House of
Representatives who had been defeated.  And the state chairman.

And I’m standing there with a towel on and shaving cream on my face. 
(Laughter.)  They said, “Joe, we just had dinner.  We want to talk to
you.”  And they walked in.  I said, “Well, okay.”  You know, with two
headboards nailed the wall, a desk nailed to the other wall.  I ran in
to try on — I thought I was going to put something on.  Well, I couldn’t
find — I just took the shaving cream off.

I’m standing, leaning against the thing.  They said, “Joe, we decided:
You should run.”  (Laughter.)  I said, “For what, Mr. Justice?”  “For
the Senate.” 

I said, “I’m not old enough.”  He said, “Obviously, you didn’t do very
well in constitutional law.”  (Laughter.)  He said, “You have to be 30
to be sworn in, not to be elected, and you’ll be 30.”

One thing led to another, and I’d hope what you had — one professor at
school you really admired.  Well, there was one I had.  And on the way
home, I called him, and I went from Dover to Newark, Delaware, to the
university.  And I said, “What do you think?”  And I’ll never forget
what he said.  He said, “Remember what Plato said.”  And I’m thinking,
“What the hell did Plato say?”  (Laughter.)

Plato said, and I’m paraphrasing, “The penalty good people pay for not
being involved in politics is being governed by people worse than
themselves.”

So, I went home to my deceased wife, and I said, “What do you think I
should do?”  She said, “Look, you’re working part time as a public
defender.  You’re trying to start a law firm.  You’re working 40 to 80
hours a week.  Pick one.”  (Laughter.)

One thing led to another, and I wo- — ran and I won.  And I won because
the African American community showed up over 90 percent for me in my
state and every election since then. 

The point I’m making is simple.  You can do things you don’t think you
can do.  You can do things you don’t think you can do. 

And, by the way, I — for 36 years — not a joke, and you’ll all check
this, I know; check on your phones — (laughter) — I was — I was listed
the poorest man in the United States Congress — not just Senate —
Congress — for 36 years I was there.  I had a good salary.  I was making
$42,000 as a senator and, after that, it went up.  (Laughter.)  I never
thought I was poor. 

But my point is, I didn’t come from any means.  So, I hope some of you
do more than just change things.  I hope you run.  I hope you get
involved in the political process.  It’s not just supporting people but
thinking of yourself as being engaged, because we can really — the — the
country is ready. 

We really are, as I said, at one of these inflection points.  Think
about it.  What’s going to happen?  Mark my words.  You tell your
children, and you’re — if you’re young enough, you’ll know.  In 20
years, you’re going to see a different world, a different nation. 

We can — I think we can make it a hell of a lot better.  I really do. 
And I am — I am optimistic.  (Applause.)  So, remember. 

I’m sorry to talk so long.  But I just — I — I just want you to —
please, please, please get a — not just get involved — it all gets down
to the vote.  The bottom line is the vote.

So, God bless you all.  And may God protect our troops. 

Thank you.  (Applause.)

2:30 P.M. EDT
