---
date: '2024-09-04'
published_time: 2024-09-04 14:19:29-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/09/04/statement-from-president-joe-biden-on-shooting-at-apalachee-high-school-in-georgia/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Statement from President Joe\_Biden on Shooting at Apalachee High School in\_\
  Georgia"
---
 
Jill and I are mourning the deaths of those whose lives were cut short
due to more senseless gun violence and thinking of all of the survivors
whose lives are forever changed. What should have been a joyous
back-to-school season in Winder, Georgia, has now turned into another
horrific reminder of how gun violence continues to tear our communities
apart. Students across the country are learning how to duck and cover
instead of how to read and write. We cannot continue to accept this as
normal. 

We are closely coordinating with officials at the federal, state and
local level, and are grateful for the first responders who brought the
suspect into custody and prevented further loss of life.

Ending this gun violence epidemic is personal to me. It’s why I signed
into law the Bipartisan Safer Communities Act – the most meaningful gun
safety bill in decades – and have announced dozens of gun safety
executive actions. I also established the first-ever White House Office
of Gun Violence Prevention, overseen by Vice President Harris. We’ve
made significant progress, but this crisis requires even more.

After decades of inaction, Republicans in Congress must finally say
‘enough is enough’ and work with Democrats to pass common-sense gun
safety legislation. We must ban assault weapons and high-capacity
magazines once again, require safe storage of firearms, enact universal
background checks, and end immunity for gun manufacturers. These
measures will not bring those who were tragically killed today back, but
it will help prevent more tragic gun violence from ripping more families
apart.

\###
