---
date: '2024-09-17'
published_time: 2024-09-17 20:41:50-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/09/17/statement-from-president-joe-biden-on-sudan/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Statement from President Joe\_Biden on\_Sudan"
---
 
For over 17 long months, the Sudanese people have endured a senseless
war that has created one of the world’s worst humanitarian crises.
Nearly 10 million people have been displaced by this conflict. Women and
girls have been kidnapped and sexually assaulted. Famine has taken hold
in Darfur, and is threatening millions more elsewhere. And today, a
violent history is repeating itself. The city of El Fasher, Darfur—home
to nearly two million people and hundreds of thousands of displaced
persons—has been under a months-long siege by the Rapid Support Forces.
That siege has become a full-on assault in recent days.

I call on the belligerents responsible for Sudanese suffering—the
Sudanese Armed Forces (SAF) and the Rapid Support Forces (RSF)—to pull
back their forces, facilitate unhindered humanitarian access, and
re-engage in negotiations to end this war. The RSF must stop their
assault that is disproportionately harming Sudanese civilians. The SAF
must stop indiscriminate bombings that are destroying civilian lives and
infrastructure.  While both sides have taken some steps to improve
humanitarian access, the SAF and RSF continue to delay and disrupt
lifesaving humanitarian operations. Both parties need to immediately
allow unhindered humanitarian access to all areas of Sudan.

The United States stands with the Sudanese people. Since the start of
the conflict, we have pressed for peace and sought to hold accountable
actors seeking to perpetuate violence.  The United States has advanced
efforts to rally international partners, end hostilities, protect
civilians, expand humanitarian access, and elevate civil society
voices—most recently through talks last month in Switzerland, where we
launched the Aligned for Advancing Lifesaving and Peace in Sudan Group
with a collection of influential partners, the African Union, Egypt,
Saudi Arabia, Switzerland, the United Nations, and the United Arab
Emirates. The ALPS Group has secured the opening of new routes into
Darfur and Khartoum, through which desperately needed humanitarian
assistance is now being delivered, and permission to access some
airstrips to further increase aid delivery. But we must keep pressing
for more.  

The United States is the world’s largest provider of assistance to the
Sudanese people, funding over $1.6 billion in emergency assistance in
the last two years. We have previously determined that members of the
SAF and the RSF have committed war crimes, and that members of the RSF
have committed crimes against humanity and ethnic cleansing. The U.S.
Treasury Department has sanctioned sixteen entities and individuals for
contributing to the conflict, exacerbating instability, or serious human
rights abuses. And we will continue to evaluate further atrocity
allegations and potential additional sanctions. Let it be clear: the
United States will not abandon our commitment to the people of Sudan who
deserve freedom, peace, and justice. We call for all parties to this
conflict to end this violence and refrain from fueling it, for the
future of Sudan and for all of the Sudanese people.

\###
