---
date: '2024-09-16'
published_time: 2024-09-16 17:55:02-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/09/16/statement-from-national-security-advisor-jake-sullivan-on-the-three-year-anniversary-of-aukus/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Statement from National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan on the Three Year Anniversary\
  \ of\_AUKUS"
---
 
Three years ago, President Biden and our Australian and United Kingdom
partners committed to AUKUS, an enhanced security partnership that
promotes a free and open Indo-Pacific that is secure and stable. As this
partnership has grown, it has strengthened the security of our allies in
the region as well as our own security here at home. Over the past three
years, our countries have made significant strides in supporting
Australia’s acquisition of a conventionally-armed, nuclear-powered
submarine capability. Australian sailors are now enrolled in U.S. and UK
nuclear power training schools, Australian personnel are embedded in
U.S. shipyards, and each of our countries have made significant
investments to strengthen our respective defense industrial bases
creating thousands of highly-skilled jobs. AUKUS partners recently
implemented sweeping changes in each of our export control regimes
opening up defense trade between our three countries. Through deep
integration of our innovation communities, AUKUS partners are steadily
developing and deploying advanced capabilities for our
warfighters. These efforts will continue in the years to come as we
collaborate and invest in this historic partnership.

\###
