---
date: '2024-09-16'
modified_time: 2024-09-16 12:20:13-04:00
published_time: 2024-09-16 12:20:12-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/09/16/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-1-3-billion-in-additional-funding-and-a-record-of-over-17-billion-in-total-support-for-historically-black-colleges-and-universities-hbcus/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Announces $1.3 Billion in Additional\
  \ Funding and a Record of Over $17 Billion in Total Support for Historically Black\
  \ Colleges and Universities\_(HBCUs)"
---
 
Today, the Biden-Harris Administration announced additional federal
investments in Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs)
totaling **$1.3 billion**. With these new investments, combined with the
previously announced [$16
billion](https://www.ed.gov/news/press-releases/fact-sheet-biden-%E2%81%A0harris-administration-announces-record-over-16-billion-support-historically-black-colleges-and-universities-hbcus)
in total federal investments in HBCUs, the Biden-Harris Administration
has set another record of **over** **$17 billion** in federal
investments in HBCUs from Fiscal Years (FY) 2021 through current
available data for FY 2024.

Investments in HBCUs continue to be one of the most powerful engines of
economic mobility for students and their families and have proven to
more than pay for themselves. Despite representing only
[3%](https://www.ed.gov/news/press-releases/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-highlights-record-championing-historically-black-colleges-and-universities-hbcus)
of colleges and universities, HBCUs provide college access to [twice as
many](https://www.weforum.org/agenda/2021/08/mckinsey-report-highlights-importance-of-supporting-hbcus-in-the-united-states/)
Pell Grant-eligible low- and middle- income students as non-HBCU
institutions. HBCUs have produced an astonishing 40% of all Black
engineers, 50% of all Black teachers, 70% of all Black doctors and
dentists, 80% of all Black judges, and the first Black American and
first woman to be Vice President of the United States, Vice President
Kamala Harris. HBCUs foster more upward mobility than most US colleges:
about 30% of HBCU students move up at least two income quintiles
compared to 18% for non HBCUs. And
[research](https://uncf.org/news/hbcus-fuel-the-american-middle-class)
by the United Negro College Fund (UNCF) found that, compared to the Ivy
League and other top-ranked non-HBCU institutions, HBCUs help more than
five times as many students move from the bottom 40% to the top 60% of
U.S. household.

A
[report](https://www.whitehouse.gov/cea/written-materials/2024/05/16/the-economics-of-hbcus/)
by the Council of Economic Advisors (CEA) published in May further
underscores this point. The report found that, even in the face of
historic underfunding, HBCU enrollment was associated with an increased
likelihood of completing a bachelor’s degree and higher household
income, and noted that HBCUs have seen a surge in applications and
enrollment in recent years – indicating that students increasingly
recognize and appreciate their value.

But beyond just serving as an engine of economic mobility for students
and their families, HBCUs make a substantial contribution to the
national economy. New research by the UNCF finds that HBCUs
[generate](https://uncf.org/hbcuimpactreport/2024) $16.5 billion
annually in economic impact on communities across the United States, as
well as over 136,000 jobs, and $146 billion in collective lifetime
earnings for their graduates.

As a component of this outsized economic impact, HBCUs play a
significant role in the research and development (R&D) that drives vital
progress in science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM). As such,
the Biden-Harris Administration has made it a priority to expand the
capacity of HBCUs to offer high quality STEM education programs and to
compete for federal R&D dollars. In the first six months of the
Administration, President Biden signed the CHIPS and Science Act – which
requires federal research agencies to provide funding and other support
for expanding the R&D capacity of HBCUs. The Biden-Harris Administration
has worked diligently to implement this law.

The Biden Harris Administration has [advanced racial
equity](http://www.whitehouse.gov/equity), economic opportunity, and
educational excellence through HBCUs since Day One, including by
reestablishing the [White House Initiative on Advancing Educational
Equity, Excellence, and Economic Opportunity through Historically Black
Colleges and
Universities](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/09/03/executive-order-on-white-house-initiative-on-advancing-educational-equity-excellence-and-economic-opportunity-through-historically-black-colleges-and-universities/).
The Biden-Harris Administration is the most diverse administration in
history and many members are HBCU graduates, including Vice President
Kamala Harris,  U.S. Environmental Protection Agency Administrator
Michael Regan, and Federal Energy Regulatory Commission Chairman Willie
Phillips.

**The additional $1.3 billion in federal investments announced today
will further build on the Administration’s commitments and on HBCUs’
demonstrated track record of delivering excellence. These investments
include:**

-   **$188 million** in competitive grants to HBCUs through the
    Department of Education, including grants that will support R&D
    capacity building.

<!-- -->

-   **$1.1 billion** in funding to support students at HBCUs directly
    through need-based grants and other federal programs, including Pell
    Grants.

  
**While there is more work to be done, the Biden-Harris Administration
continues to build on an unprecedented track record of delivering for
HBCUs and the students and communities they serve:**

-   The **Department of Defense U.S. Air Force** established the
    first-ever [HBCU-led University Affiliated Research Center
    (UARC)](https://www.afrl.af.mil/tactical-autonomy-UARC/). Led by
    Howard University with seven other HBCUs and funded at $90 million
    over five years, this program will focus on advancing the deployment
    of autonomous technologies for Air Force missions. Participating
    HBCUs include Bowie State University, Delaware State University,
    Florida Memorial University, Hampton University, Jackson State
    University, Norfolk State University, Tuskegee University, and
    Tougaloo College.

<!-- -->

-   The **Department of Commerce** **National Telecommunications and
    Information Administration** established the first-ever
    [Connecting-Minority-Communities
    program](https://www.ntia.gov/category/connecting-minority-communities-pilot-program)
    delivering funding for 43 HBCUs to purchase high-speed internet,
    purchase equipment, and hire IT personnel to tackle the digital
    divide impacting HBCUs.

<!-- -->

-   The **Department of Commerce CHIPS for America** hosted the launch
    of the [HBCU CHIPS
    Network](https://www.commerce.gov/news/blog/2024/02/commerce-secretary-gina-raimondo-hosts-launch-hbcu-chips-network-build-skilled),
    a collaboration of several HBCUs and the Georgia Institute of
    Technology to increase the coordination of the resources at HBCUs
    and jointly contribute to workforce and research development needs
    of the semiconductor industry. Chips are critical in powering our
    consumer electronics, automobiles, data centers, critical
    infrastructure, and virtually all military systems.

<!-- -->

-   The **Department of Commerce National Oceanic and Atmospheric
    Administration** will provide $4.2 million in grant funding to
    HBCUs, through the [EPP/MSI Cooperative Science Center
    program](https://www.noaa.gov/office-education/epp-msi/csc).

<!-- -->

-   The **Department of Agriculture** announced a $262.5 million
    investment to support 33 projects across U.S. institutions of higher
    education designed to train the next generation of diverse
    agricultural professionals. Through the [USDA NextGen
    program](https://www.nifa.usda.gov/grants/programs/learning-leading-cultivating-next-generation-diverse-food-agriculture-professionals),
    the projects are led by 1890 land-grant institutions (historically
    Black land-grant universities), 1994 land-grant institutions (Tribal
    Colleges and Universities, Asian American and Native American
    Pacific Islander-Serving Institutions, Hispanic-Serving Institutions
    (HSIs)), and institutions of higher education located in the Insular
    Areas. This historic investment will provide training and support to
    more than 20,000 future food and agricultural leaders through 33
    projects executed by more than 60 institutions across 24 states and
    Insular Areas.

<!-- -->

-   The **Department of Energy** announced the inaugural $7.75 million
    [Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCU) Clean Energy
    Education
    Prize](https://www.energy.gov/eere/articles/doe-announces-775-million-investment-hbcus-support-stem-workforce-0),
    a competition that will support HBCUs in developing programming to
    strengthen the participation of K-12 and community college students
    in science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM) fields. The
    competition, which has announced its [first 10 winning HBCU
    teams](https://www.energy.gov/eere/articles/doe-announces-prize-winners-first-ever-hbcu-clean-energy-education-prize),
    is supporting the creation of clean energy community networks to
    inspire the next generation of students to work in STEM fields
    related to clean energy.

<!-- -->

-   The **Department of Education** provided nearly $25 million to HBCUs
    under the Research and Development Infrastructure program to
    transform their research infrastructure, including strengthening
    research productivity, faculty expertise, physical infrastructure,
    and partnerships leading to increases in external funding.

<!-- -->

-   The **Department of Education** announced nearly $2.3 million in new
    grant awards for the Minority Science and Engineering Improvement
    Program, which strengthens science and engineering education
    programs and reduces barriers to entry in STEM careers for students
    of color, particularly women. Four HBCU grantees across three states
    (Georgia, Mississippi, and North Carolina) will receive a total of
    more than $1 million in funding.

<!-- -->

-   The **Department of Education** announced nearly $15 million in new
    grants under the Augustus F. Hawkins Centers of Excellence Program
    to prepare the next generation of teachers at HBCUs and Minority
    Serving Institutions. These new awards include four HBCU grantees
    across four states (Georgia, Louisiana, North Carolina, and Texas),
    receiving a total $1.6 million in funding. This brings the total
    investment in Hawkins to $38 million under the Biden-Harris
    Administration, which is the first Administration to secure funding
    for the Hawkins program.  

<!-- -->

-   The **Department of Transportation** announced Prairie View A&M
    University in Texas as the first-ever HBCU to lead a [University
    Transportation
    Center](https://www.transportation.gov/content/university-transportation-centers).
    Prairie View A&M and 11 other HBCUs were among 34 schools to receive
    a portion of a $435 million grant for development of interoperable
    technology systems, which allow equipment, software, and
    applications to work together, communicate, and exchange data.

<!-- -->

-   The **National Aeronautics and Space Administration** is pioneering
    efforts to close opportunity gaps in STEM, including [nearly $12
    million for eight HBCUs to support programs in artificial
    intelligence and machine
    learning](https://www.nasa.gov/news-release/nasa-awards-millions-to-historically-black-colleges-universities/)
    and create a more diverse pipeline of talent for careers in
    data-intensive space-based Earth science.

<!-- -->

-   The **White House Initiative on Advancing Educational Equity,
    Excellence, and Economic Opportunity through HBCUs** established the
    [Executive HBCU Space
    Lab](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/04/08/fact-sheet-vice-president-kamala-),
    a new collaboration between HBCUs, the Federal government, and
    industry partners to increase HBCU engagement in space-related
    federal contracting. The Executive HBCU Space Lab is a
    solutions-oriented initiative that will release resources including
    SpaceTechConnect, a free platform to highlight space-related
    capabilities at HBCUs.

<!-- -->

-   The **Executive HBCU Space Lab** will release a [federal contracting
    playbook](https://hbcu.space/downloads/hbcu-playbook.pdf) to equip
    HBCUs with the necessary knowledge and tools to effectively secure
    and manage federal contracts, ensuring they fully leverage
    opportunities to benefit their institutions and communities.

<!-- -->

-   The **Department of Health and Human Services** **National Institute
    of Environmental Health Sciences** established
    [HBCU-Connect](https://nihrecord.nih.gov/2022/08/19/niehs-launches-new-initiative-historically-black-colleges-universities),
    a new initiative with HBCUs to inspire the development of
    environmental health science leaders from diverse backgrounds.
    HBCU-Connect is a multifaceted effort to strengthen ties between the
    institute and faculty and students at academic institutions that are
    often underrepresented in the sciences.

<!-- -->

-   The **Department of Health and Human Services** **Health Resources
    and Services Administration’s Maternal and Child Health Bureau**
    launched the [Maternal Health Research Collaborative for
    MSIs](https://www.hrsa.gov/grants/find-funding/HRSA-23-112),
    providing roughly $30 million in research support to seven HBCUs
    over five years. The funding will build capacity of HBCUs to conduct
    Black maternal health research to fully understand and address the
    root causes of disparities in maternal mortality, severe maternal
    morbidity, and maternal health outcomes; and to find community-based
    solutions to address these disparities and advance health equity.

<!-- -->

-   The **Department of Health and Human Services National Institutes of
    Health (NIH)** funding to HBCUs totaled $147.5 million to support
    research, training, research capacity building, and outreach
    efforts. NIH funding included endowment awards to strengthen the
    research infrastructure of the HBCU award recipients to conduct
    minority health and health disparities research. Other NIH funding
    has assisted several HBCUs in contributing towards building a
    diverse scientific workforce, including mentorship and student
    training programs and career development opportunities for faculty.

<!-- -->

-   The **National Science Foundation** has awarded $10.5 million for
    Ideas Lab projects, under its [Advancing Research Capacity at HBCUs
    through Exploration and Innovation
    (ARC-HBCU)](https://new.nsf.gov/news/ideas-labs-advance-research-capacity-nations-historically)
    opportunity, to assess and address research capacity needs, increase
    access to research facilities and build human capital at
    historically Black colleges and universities (HBCUs). Among the
    awards include a $3 million award to Central State University and a
    consortium of six HBCUs to advance research capacity in
    semiconductors. The consortium includes North Carolina Agricultural
    and Technical State University, Fayetteville State University,
    Hampton University, Alabama Agricultural and Mechanical University,
    Coppin State University, and Meharry Medical College.

<!-- -->

-   The **National Science Foundation,** as part of [Growing Research
    Access for Nationally Transformative Equity and Diversity (GRANTED)
    initiative](https://new.nsf.gov/funding/opportunities/growing-research-access-nationally-transformative-0),
    awarded an Atlanta-based HBCU consortium a $14 million competitive
    grant to establish a hub that promotes equity in the national
    research ecosystem and serves as a model for other HBCUs and
    emerging research institutions. The consortium includes Clark
    Atlanta University, Morehouse College, Morehouse School of Medicine,
    and Spelman College.

<!-- -->

-   Micron and GlobalFoundries, two leading semiconductor companies, in
    partnership with the **National Science Foundation**, recently
    [announced](https://investors.micron.com/news-releases/news-release-details/micron-expands-workforce-development-collaborations-meet-future)
    their Minority Serving Institution Semiconductor Network, an
    investment of over $10 million across 15 schools, including HBCUs.
    Micron and its partners have come together to focus additional
    funding toward student programming and infrastructure at HBCUs,
    HSIs, Asian American and Native American Pacific Islander-Serving
    Institutions, and tribal colleges and universities (TCUs) to
    diversify the semiconductor workforce and bring attention to
    education equity in STEM degrees. 

<!-- -->

-   The **National Science Foundation** announced a new $2 million grant
    award to Clark Atlanta University under the HBCU CHIPS Network. The
    HBCU CHIPS Network, which was launched in February, is a
    collaboration with over 30 HBCUs and Georgia Institute of Technology
    to increase the coordination that supports semiconductor workforce
    development. HBCU partners include Alabama Agricultural and
    Mechanical University, Delaware State University, Jackson State
    University, Norfolk State University and North Carolina Agricultural
    and Technical State University.

<!-- -->

-   The **National Science and Technology Council’s Committee on STEM
    (CoSTEM)**, in support of the CHIPS and Science Act, established an
    Interagency Working Group (IWG) on HBCU, TCU, and MSI STEM
    Achievement. The
    [Council](https://www.whitehouse.gov/ostp/ostps-teams/nstc/)
    provides a coordinated federal approach to carry out sustained
    outreach activities to increase clarity, transparency, and
    accountability for federal research agency investments in STEM
    education and research at HBCUs, TCUs, and MSIs, including such
    institutions in rural areas. In May 2024, CoSTEM issued a report and
    recommendation on advancing research capacity at high-research
    activity status HBCUs. Federal agencies, the President’s Board of
    Advisors on HBCUs, and the White House Initiative on HBCUs will work
    together to issue additional recommendations and advance the model
    best practices recommended in the report.

<!-- -->

-   The **Department of Housing and Urban Development** [announced
    awards totaling $5.5 million for
    HBCUs](https://www.hud.gov/press/press_releases_media_advisories/hud_no_23_065)
    to conduct housing and community development research to support the
    production of affordable housing, support homeownership, advance use
    of renewable energy, and address infrastructure inequity affecting
    underserved communities.

<!-- -->

-   The **Department of Justice (DOJ)** has increased both the number of
    HBCUs applying for grants and its HBCU approval rate. Over the past
    five years, DOJ’s grant awards to HBCUs have increased 83% (from
    $900,000 in Fiscal Year (FY) 2018 to $5.2 million in FY23).

\###
