---
date: '2024-09-27'
modified_time: 2024-09-27 14:43:00-04:00
published_time: 2024-09-27 16:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/09/27/president-biden-announces-key-appointments-to-boards-and-commissions-40/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Announces Key Appointments to Boards and\_Commissions"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Biden announced his intent to appoint the
following individuals as members of the Nuclear Waste Technical Review
Board:

-   Peter Swift, Member and Designated Chair
-   Richelle Allen, Member
-   Lake Barrett, Member
-   Miles Greiner, Member
-   Silvia Jurisson, Member
-   Seth Tuler, Member

**<u>Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board</u>**

The U.S. Nuclear Waste Technical Review Board (NWTRB) is an independent
federal agency in the executive branch of the U.S. Federal Government.
NWTRB’s purpose is to perform independent technical and scientific peer
review of the U.S. Department of Energy’s activities related to managing
and disposing of high-level radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel.
NWTRB reports its findings and recommendations to Congress and the
Secretary of Energy.

**Peter Swift, Member and Designated Chair**

Peter Swift is a consulting geoscientist with over 30 years of
experience in high-level radioactive waste management and disposal. He
was formerly a Senior Scientist at Sandia National Laboratories in
Albuquerque, New Mexico, where he served from 2011 to 2020 as the
National Technical Director of the Department of Energy’s Office of
Nuclear Energy Spent Fuel and Waste Technology Research and Development
Campaign. His prior experience includes key roles in the certification
and licensing processes for both the Waste Isolation Pilot Plant and the
formerly proposed Yucca Mountain repository for spent nuclear fuel and
high-level radioactive waste in Nevada. Specific to the Yucca Mountain
project, he led the total system performance assessment effort that
developed estimates of the long-term safety of the site and then served
as the Chief Scientist for the program’s Lead Laboratory during the
Department of Energy’s 2008 submittal of the license application to the
Nuclear Regulatory Commission. 

Swift received a PhD in Geosciences from the University of Arizona,
Master’s and Bachelor’s degrees in Geology from the University of
Wyoming, and a B.A. in English from Yale University. He is a Fellow of
the Geological Society of America, and a member or past member of the
American Nuclear Society, the American Geophysical Union, the American
Association of Petroleum Geologists, and the Geochemical Society. 

**Richelle Allen, Member**

Richelle M. Allen-King is Professor of Geological Sciences at the
University at Buffalo, State University of New York. She is a
hydrogeochemist with more than 35 years of experience studying the fate
and transport of contaminants in groundwater with particular focus on
the importance of geologic context. She is also interested in
groundwater impacts on lake geochemistry in a changing climate.

Allen-King earned a B.A in Chemistry with Specialization in Earth
Sciences from the University of California, San Diego and PhD in Earth
Sciences from the University of Waterloo. She has served as a member of
the National Research Council’s Water Science and Technology Board and
on several of the Council’s technical committees on groundwater use,
contamination, and remediation. Particularly relevant were the NRC
committee on Development and Implementation of a Cleanup Technology
Roadmap, NRC Committee on the Bioavailability of Contaminants in Soils
and Sediments, and the Committee on Innovations in Ground Water and Soil
Clean-up. Allen-King has also served on committees and advisory panels
for the Environmental Protection Agency, such as Ecological Processes
and Effects Committee.  

Allen-King resides in Buffalo, New York. She was selected as a Henry
Darcy Distinguished Lecturer, sponsored by the National Ground Water
Association, and is a Fellow of the Geological Society of America.

**Lake Barrett, Member**

Lake Barrett is an independent consultant in the energy field. He has
worked in the nuclear energy and nuclear materials management areas for
more than five decades. Barrett currently serves as special advisor to
Japan for the recovery of the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear accident. Before
that, he served as the head of the Department of Energy’s Office of
Civilian Nuclear Waste Management which was responsible for implementing
programs for spent nuclear fuel and high-level radioactive waste
management, as mandated by the Nuclear Waste Policy Act. In that
capacity, Barrett led the complex scientific Yucca Mountain Geologic
Repository program through the statutory site selection process
culminating with the presidential site designation and following
successful House and Senate votes before he retired from federal
service.

He also served at the Nuclear Regulatory Commission in various senior
capacities, including as the site director during the stabilization,
recovery, and cleanup of the Three Mile Island reactor accident. He has
testified in various congressional hearings concerning spent nuclear
fuel policies and the Fukushima reactor accident. He also has extensive
managerial and engineering experience in Department of Energy’s Defense
Programs and private industry at both Bechtel Power Corporation, with
commercial nuclear power plants, and Electric Boat Division of General
Dynamics, with nuclear reactor and submarine systems design, operation,
and decommissioning. He has degrees in Mechanical and Nuclear
Engineering and has been the recipient of various executive branch and
congressional honors.

**Miles Greiner, Member**

Miles Greiner is currently a Foundation Professor of Mechanical
Engineering at the University of Nevada, Reno (UNR), a fellow of the
American Society of Mechanical Engineers, and past chair of the UNR
Mechanical Engineering Department. Since 1993 he has directed of the UNR
Nuclear Packaging Program, which conducts externally funded research to
develop and experimentally validate computational methods to predict the
thermal performance of nuclear packaging under normal and severe fire
accident conditions. This includes performing large-scale experiments
and computational studies of heat transfer to massive objects engulfed
in pool fires, developing methods to predict transport during used
nuclear fuel package vacuum drying, and developing wireless methods to
monitor nuclear packaging internal conditions.

Since 2016, Greiner has directed a UNR educational program which awards
graduate certificates in nuclear packaging and in transportation
security and safeguards. He has published over one-hundred journal
articles and conference papers on nuclear packaging topics. Miles
Greiner earned his PhD in Mechanical Engineering from the Massachusetts
Institute of Technology.

**Silvia Jurisson, Member**

Silvia Jurisson is Professor Emerita of Chemistry and Radiology at the
University of Missouri. She has been involved in inorganic and
radiochemistry research with applications to radioisotope production and
separations, radiopharmaceutical chemistry, radio-environmental
chemistry, and biological systems, and has trained many graduate,
undergraduate, and postdoctoral students over the past 30 years. She has
over 150 publications in peer-reviewed journals. She is an Associate
Editor of *Radiochimica Acta*, and a Councilor for the Nuclear Division
of the American Chemical Society (ACS).

She received the John H. Hubbell Award from Elsevier in 2018, the
TERACHEM Award in 2018, and the Glenn T. Seaborg Award for Nuclear
Chemistry from the ACS in 2012. She was elected as a Fellow of the
American Association for the Advancement of Science in 2014, a Fellow of
the ACS in 2016, and a Fellow of the Society of Radiopharmaceutical
Sciences in 2022.

She spent 5 years in the pharmaceutical industry at
Squibb/Bristol-Myers-Squibb before beginning her academic career at the
University of Missouri. She earned her B.S. in Chemistry from the
University of Delaware, and her PhD in inorganic and radiopharmaceutical
chemistry at the University of Cincinnati.

**Seth Tuler, Member**

Seth Tuler is an Associate Professor in the Department of Integrative
and Global Studies Division, Worcester Polytechnic Institute and Senior
Research Fellow at the Social and Environmental Research Institute.
Tuler’s research interests focus on risk governance, public
participation in risk assessment and decision making, and developing
tools to characterize human impacts and vulnerabilities to risk events.
He has extensive experience with interdisciplinary research in multiple
policy arenas, including climate adaptation planning, oil spill response
planning, nuclear waste management, and regional land-use planning.

Tuler was a member of the Federal Advisory Committee on Energy-Related
Epidemiologic Research and chaired its Subcommittee for Community
Affairs for 2 years. He served on the National Academy of Science’s
Committee on Transportation of Spent Nuclear Fuel and High-Level
Radioactive Waste and was asked to co-author two technical reports for
President Barack Obama’s Blue Ribbon Commission on America’s Nuclear
Future on social distrust, with Roger Kasperson, and public engagement,
with Eugene Rosa and Thomas Webler. More recently he served on the
National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine’s Committee on
Alternatives for the Demilitarization of Conventional Munitions;
National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine’s Standing
Committee on Chemical Demilitarization; and National Research Council
Committee on Review of Criteria for Successful Treatment of Hydrolysate,
a hazardous byproduct of chemical weapons demilitarization, at two
facilities in Pueblo, Colorado and Blue Grass, Kentucky.

\# \# \#
