---
date: '2024-09-17'
modified_time: 2024-09-17 09:59:53-04:00
published_time: 2024-09-17 12:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/09/17/joint-leaders-statement-to-mark-the-third-anniversary-of-aukus/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Joint Leaders Statement to Mark the Third Anniversary of\_AUKUS"
---
 
We the leaders of Australia, the United Kingdom, and the United States,
mark the third anniversary of AUKUS – an enhanced security partnership
that promotes a free and open Indo-Pacific that is secure and stable. 
We reaffirm our shared commitment to this historic partnership and
acknowledge the considerable progress to date.   

**<u>Pillar I – Conventionally-Armed, Nuclear-Powered Submarines</u>**

In March 2023, our nations announced a pathway to deliver Australia’s
conventionally-armed, nuclear-powered submarine (SSN) capability, while
setting the highest non-proliferation standard.    

We are steadily building Australia’s capabilities to steward and operate
its own fleet of conventionally-armed, nuclear-powered submarines from
the early 2030s.  The United Kingdom and the United States welcomed
Australian naval officers and sailors into their submarine training
schools and embedded Australian personnel into the UK Ministry of
Defence and U.S. naval shipyards.  Our nations have made enormous
strides towards the establishment of a rotational presence of U.S. and
UK SSNs at HMAS *Stirling* in Western Australia as early as 2027. 
Increased visits by U.S. SSNs to Australia have supported steady
progress in Australian workforce development, and, in August 2024,
Australian personnel demonstrated their progress through participation
in the first maintenance activity conducted on a U.S. nuclear-powered
submarine in Australia.

We have made significant investments to lift our respective submarine
industrial bases.  The United Kingdom has made an initial allocation of
nearly £4 billion to continue work on SSN-AUKUS, and £3 billion to
expand production capabilities across its Defence Nuclear Enterprise. 
The United States decided to invest USD 17.5 billion into its submarine
industrial base.  Australia has committed to invest over AUD 30 billion
in the Australian defense industrial base and make proportionate
contributions to the United Kingdom and the United States to support the
production of SSN-AUKUS and to accelerate the delivery of Virginia class
submarines respectively.  In March 2024, Australia announced the
selection of ASC Pty Ltd and BAE Systems to build SSN-AUKUS and ASC Pty
Ltd to sustain Australia’s SSNs.  These respective investments and
decisions will deliver thousands of highly skilled jobs across our three
nations. 

In August this year, the AUKUS partners signed a historic international
agreement for cooperation relating to naval nuclear propulsion.  Once it
enters into force, this agreement will enable AUKUS partners to go
beyond sharing naval nuclear propulsion information to include allowing
the United States and the United Kingdom to transfer the material and
equipment required for the safe and secure construction, operation, and
sustainment of Australia’s conventionally-armed, nuclear-powered
submarines. 

The agreement reaffirms AUKUS partners’ existing non-proliferation
obligations and Australia’s safeguards agreements with the International
Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA).  The agreement will make our
non-proliferation commitments under AUKUS legally-binding between the
partners.  Our nations continue to consult with the IAEA to develop a
non-proliferation and safeguards approach that sets the highest
non-proliferation standard.  

**<u>Pillar II – Advanced Capabilities</u>**

When AUKUS was first announced, we pledged to pursue information and
technology sharing and unprecedented integration of our innovation
communities, industrial bases, and warfighter capabilities in support of
a shared goal to build the advanced capabilities needed to bolster
deterrence in support of security and stability in the Indo-Pacific. 

This work is delivering as our Navies are strengthening undersea warfare
capabilities by integrating the ability to launch and recover undersea
vehicles from submarine torpedo tubes to deliver effects such as strike
and reconnaissance.  We are also deploying advanced Artificial
Intelligence algorithms across our shared military systems to process
sonar-buoy data, assisting anti-submarine operators in making better
decisions, faster.  We are strengthening maritime autonomy through a
series of joint exercise and experimentation known as the Maritime Big
Play, where we will conduct ground-breaking tests on the collective use
of autonomous and un-crewed systems in maritime operations.  Together,
we are making further strides in quantum technologies, cyber
capabilities, hypersonics, and electronic warfare.

In April 2024 our Defense Ministers announced principles for additional
AUKUS Pillar II partner engagement on specific projects where new
partners could contribute to, and benefit from, AUKUS.  Following
initial consultations this year and leveraging Japan’s deep technical
expertise, AUKUS partners and Japan are exploring opportunities to
improve interoperability of their maritime autonomous systems as an
initial area of cooperation.  Recognizing these countries’ close
bilateral defense partnerships with each member of AUKUS, we are
consulting with Canada, New Zealand, and the Republic of Korea to
identify possibilities for collaboration on advanced capabilities under
AUKUS Pillar II.   

To promote innovation and realize the goals of AUKUS, Australia, the
United Kingdom, and the United States have implemented momentous
amendments to our respective export control regimes, including reforms
to the U.S. International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR).  These
critical reforms will facilitate billions of dollars in secure,
license-free defense trade and maximize innovation across the full
breadth of our defense collaboration and mutually strengthen our three
defense industrial bases.

 ###
