---
date: '2024-09-23'
modified_time: 2024-09-23 12:10:42-04:00
published_time: 2024-09-23 11:10:57-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/09/23/fact-sheet-preisdent-biden-and-vice-president-harris-issue-report-on-progress-made-to-reduce-gun-violence-one-year-after-creating-white-house-office-of-gun-violence-prevention/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: PRESIDENT BIDEN AND VICE PRESIDENT HARRIS ISSUE REPORT ON PROGRESS\
  \ MADE TO REDUCE GUN VIOLENCE ONE YEAR AFTER CREATING WHITE HOUSE OFFICE OF GUN\
  \ VIOLENCE\_PREVENTION"
---
 
*Statement from the President:* “I’ve spent countless hours meeting with
families impacted by gun violence as they mourn their loved ones.
They’ve all had the same simple message for their elected officials: ‘do
something.’ Vice President Harris and I responded to their call: I
signed the most significant gun safety legislation in nearly 30 years,
and we announced dozens of executive actions to reduce gun violence. But
we knew more was needed. That’s why I established the first-ever White
Office of Gun Violence Prevention, overseen by the Vice President. In
just one year, it has accelerated my Administration’s efforts to reduce
gun violence and save lives.”

*Statement from the Vice President:* “President Biden and I have worked
to address the epidemic of gun violence with the urgency it demands by
enacting the Bipartisan Safer Communities Act – the most significant gun
safety law in nearly 30 years – and launching the first-ever White House
Office of Gun Violence Prevention. In the year since President Biden
asked me to oversee this Office, our administration has improved and
expanded background checks, announced the single largest investment in
youth mental health in history, and been an unprecedented resource to
states, cities, and local communities. We have also supported, convened,
and worked alongside gun violence survivors, the families of those who
have lost loved ones to shootings, and other impacted individuals to
tackle the trauma caused by gun violence. I am committed to continuing
this urgent work to ensure that every person in our nation has the
freedom to live safe from gun violence.”

After the prior Administration oversaw the largest one-year increase in
murders ever recorded, President Biden and Vice President Harris took
historic action from the start of their Administration to reduce violent
crime. Because firearms are used in approximately 80% of murders in the
United States, addressing gun crime is essential to addressing violent
crime. The President and Vice President secured funding through the
American Rescue Plan—which every Republican in Congress voted
against—for law enforcement and community violence interventions.
President Biden and Vice President Harris announced executive actions to
keep guns out of dangerous hands and, by the middle of 2022, the
Biden-Harris Administration had already taken more executive action to
reduce gun violence than any other administration. On June 25, 2022,
President Biden signed into law the Bipartisan Safer Communities Act—the
most significant new gun violence prevention law in nearly 30 years.
Year-over-year comparisons show that 2023 had the single largest
homicide rate drop in recent history.

After two and a half years of significant progress, President Biden and
Vice President Harris’s next step was to establish a White House office
dedicated to coordinating across the federal government and partnering
with gun violence survivors, law enforcement, state and local officials,
and community leaders on our shared goal of reducing gun violence.
 After championing this issue for decades, President Biden asked Vice
President Harris to oversee the White House Office of Gun Violence
because he knows that she has a proven record as a leader for gun
violence prevention.

The past year, the reduction in homicide has only
[accelerated](https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/readout-justice-departments-violent-crime-reduction-steering-committee-meeting-0),
with the Department of Justice reporting that, from January to June,
homicides dropped 17% compared to the same time last year. In addition,
data from the Gun Violence Archive indicates that the number of mass
shootings to date in 2024 has decreased by 20 percent compared to the
same period last year.

**<u>Today, the White House is [releasing a report on
progress](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/09/Year-One-Report-Final.pdf)
made by the Biden-Harris Administration to reduce gun violence in the
one year since President Biden created the White House Office of Gun
Violence Prevention.</u>** The report provides a summary, but not an
exhaustive list, of how the Biden-Harris Administration has taken action
to fulfill the four objectives President Biden gave the office:

1.  Expedite implementation of the Bipartisan Safer Communities Act and
    already-announced executive actions;
2.  Coordinate more support for survivors of gun violence;
3.  Identify new executive actions; and
4.  Expand our coalition of partners in states and cities across the
    country.

For President Biden, this work is the culmination of well over 30 years
of national leadership to reduce gun violence and save lives. He played
a critical role in securing passage of the Brady Bill in 1993 and the
assault weapons ban in 1994. In the early 2000s, when the National Rifle
Association was experiencing growing power in Washington and claiming to
“work out of \[the President’s\] office,” then-Senator Biden was a key
voice taking votes opposing their dangerous agenda. From 2012 to 2013,
then-Vice President Biden led the Obama-Biden Administration’s efforts
to develop and implement over two dozen executive actions after the
tragedy at Sandy Hook Elementary School. He has continued this work
throughout his own presidency by actually establishing an Office of Gun
Violence Prevention and forcefully calling on Congress to pass an
assault weapons ban and repeal PLCAA.

As President Biden
[emphasized](https://urldefense.com/v3/__https:/www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/03/08/remarks-by-president-biden-in-state-of-the-union-address-3/__;!!Om87Lau1Cg!MtQQhDtuE6rOPVxGQlvg8-dCqR-hg5pm8__LRrd4tz8BAAmcwVz5SIjLw7FrDINKABkmwm1SCwI2Nzo9Pog_rdvqjgJoTgzChyuQ$)
during his State of the Union address earlier this year, Vice President
Harris continues to lead the Administration’s work to address the
epidemic of gun violence and keep communities safe while overseeing the
first-ever White House Office of Gun Violence Prevention. Since taking
office, there have been more than 80 instances where the Vice President
has put a focus on gun violence prevention. This includes mourning with
families and consoling communities that have been directly impacted by
gun violence across the nation – from Buffalo and Highland Park to
Nashville, Monterey Park, Atlanta, Pittsburgh, and Parkland.

This dedicated work is a continuation of the Vice President’s
decades-long record of taking on gun violence and advancing gun safety
policies. As District Attorney of San Francisco, she prosecuted homicide
cases and saw first-hand the devastation of gun violence. She also
invested in community violence intervention efforts by championing
Community Response Networks. While overseeing the second largest
Department of Justice in America as Attorney General of California, Vice
President Harris worked to get illegal firearms off the street and to
prosecute gun trafficking. And as Senator, she co-sponsored several
pieces of gun safety legislation, including an assault weapons ban.

\###
