---
date: '2024-09-21'
modified_time: 2024-09-21 12:44:30-04:00
published_time: 2024-09-21 12:44:29-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/09/21/readout-of-president-bidens-meeting-with-prime-minister-kishida-of-japan-6/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Readout of President\_Biden\u2019s Meeting with Prime Minister Kishida of\_\
  Japan"
---
 
President Joseph R. Biden, Jr. met with Prime Minister Kishida Fumio of
Japan today in Wilmington, Delaware, to advance cooperation on a range
of security, economic, and diplomatic issues. The President underscored
that the U.S.-Japan Alliance is the cornerstone of regional peace and
prosperity, and commended the progress made in strengthening the global
partnership with Japan since the Prime Minister’s Official Visit to
Washington, D.C., in April 2024.

The President praised the Prime Minister’s visionary and courageous
leadership over the past three years, which has fundamentally enhanced
Japan’s defense capabilities and transformed its role in the world. He
thanked the Prime Minister for his resolute support for strengthening
Alliance defense cooperation, including on command and control, defense
industrial cooperation, and enhanced exercises and training, and for
advancing a free and open Indo-Pacific region.  Both leaders welcomed
progress in pursing cooperation on advanced capability projects under
Pillar 2 of the Australia-United Kingdom-United States (AUKUS)
trilateral partnership.

The two leaders also reiterated their resolve to maintain peace and
stability across the Taiwan Strait and underscored their opposition to
any attempts to change the status quo by force. The leaders discussed
their respective diplomacy with the People’s Republic of China (PRC) and
their shared concerns about the PRC’s coercive and destabilizing
activities, including in the South China Sea. They also reaffirmed their
commitment to developing and protecting critical and emerging
technologies such as AI and semiconductors while increasing their
resilience to economic coercion.

The leaders also discussed Japan’s robust contributions to global and
regional security, including through the Quad and its leadership of the
G7 last year, as well as its support for the United Nations and
increased humanitarian funding to meet unprecedented needs across the
globe. The President welcomed the Prime Minister’s principled and
resolute support to Ukraine as it defends itself from Russia’s brutal
aggression. He also commended the Prime Minister’s courage and
conviction in strengthening ties with the Republic of Korea (ROK), which
enabled the launch of a momentous new era of U.S.-Japan-ROK trilateral
cooperation at the historic Camp David Summit in August 2023.

The two leaders committed to sustain efforts to take the U.S.-Japan
Alliance to new heights and to continue standing side-by-side together
as steadfast global partners.

\###
