---
date: '2024-09-25'
published_time: 2024-09-25 19:26:32-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/09/25/remarks-as-prepared-for-delivery-by-homeland-security-advisor-dr-liz-sherwood-randall-at-the-fourth-ministerial-meeting-on-the-los-angeles-declaration-on-migration-and-protection-new-york-ny/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Remarks as Prepared for Delivery by Homeland Security Advisor Dr. Liz Sherwood-Randall\
  \ at the Fourth Ministerial Meeting on the Los Angeles Declaration on Migration\
  \ and Protection | New York,\_NY"
---
 
On behalf of President Biden, I want to thank each of you for being here
today. 

The Los Angeles Declaration on Migration and Protection embodies our
shared values and our commitment to work together to elevate the welfare
and security of our entire hemisphere. As I listened to each of your
remarks, I reflected on how much we have accomplished since your leaders
joined President Biden on the podium in Los Angeles a little more than
two years ago. 

We have taken key actions to disrupt the smuggling networks that exploit
vulnerable migrants through **coordinated enforcement efforts**.

We have **expanded** lawful pathways as an alternative to the risks
inherent in irregular migration.

And collectively, we have fostered the long-term **stabilization and
integration** of migrants.

I will provide some details to illustrate more vividly what we have done
on each of these three pillars of the Los Angeles Declaration.

**Enforcement**

Together, we are using our immigration and law enforcement tools to
deter irregular migration and disrupt transnational criminal
organizations that put migrants’ lives at risk for profit.

We are encouraged by how many countries have taken concrete actions to
increase enforcement, including by putting in place strong visa
requirements and increasing information sharing. We know this is a
challenge that can only be met if we work together.

And we have:

-   Adopted new rules and processes to strengthen the consequences in
    place at our border, including refined procedures announced by
    President Biden on June 4.

<!-- -->

-   Increased biometric information sharing across the region to
    identify bad actors before they enter any of our borders;
-   Imposed visa restrictions and financial sanctions, and prosecuted
    human smugglers;

So many of these efforts have been done in close coordination with all
of you. 

**Lawful Pathways**

The Biden-Harris Administration has also expanded lawful pathways to
encourage migrants to apply to come to the United States from their home
countries rather than making the dangerous journey to our border.

That is why we launched the Cuban, Haitian, Nicaraguan, Venezuelan
parole process – with notable results.

We are also on track to welcome the largest number of refugees in three
decades. This would not have been possible without the Safe Mobility
Initiative and our partnership with Guatemala, Costa Rica, Colombia, and
Ecuador.

As part of today’s funding announcement, we are providing an additional
$83 million to help resettle more refugees and refer migrants to
additional pathways as well, including temporary labor opportunities in
the United States and other countries.

**Stabilization and Integration**

And finally, I want to join Secretary Blinken in applauding the
pioneering and generous policies that are enabling the **stabilization
and integration of** migrants.

This is a story that I think will be told for years to come: how Latin
America rallied together in the face of the historic displacement of 8
million people from Venezuela and rose up to become a model for the
world of how to respond to this kind of mass migration with pragmatism
and humanity.

We applaud so many of the countries represented here for opening your
doors to displaced migrants and giving them hope for their future,
enabling them to obtain formal employment, access basic social services,
and put their kids in school.

With today’s announcements, over half of the Los Angeles Declaration
countries have implemented migrant regularization policies, collectively
providing legal status to 4.4 million mostly Venezuelan migrants.

The United States is proud to support these efforts. As part of today’s
$686 million funding announcement by Secretary of State Blinken, the
United States will assist partner countries as you implement
regularization programs and successfully integrate newcomers. In
addition, we will continue to provide lifesaving humanitarian assistance
to help the most vulnerable Venezuelans, both inside Venezuela and
throughout the region.

**Closing**

For President Biden, the Los Angeles Declaration was never just a piece
of paper that each country signed; it was a call to action.

And I am confident that with our continued commitment to the
Declaration, including the establishment of an enduring Secretariat with
Colombia as our first Country Chair, we will continue showing the world
that regional collaboration can effectively and humanely address the
migratory challenges that we face in our Hemisphere.    

Thank you.
