---
date: '2024-09-09'
modified_time: 2024-09-09 12:52:08-04:00
published_time: 2024-09-09 15:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/09/09/president-biden-announces-key-nominees-79/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Announces Key\_Nominees"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Joe Biden announced his intent to nominate
the following individuals to serve as key leaders in his administration:

-   Ben Cardin, to be a Representative of the United States of America
    to the Seventy-ninth Session of the General Assembly of the United
    Nations
-   Dan Sullivan, to be a Representative of the United States of America
    to the Seventy-ninth Session of the General Assembly of the United
    Nations
-   Tanya Leigh Flores, to be a Representative of the United States of
    America to the Seventy-ninth Session of the General Assembly of the
    United Nations
-   Michael Trager, to be a Representative of the United States of
    America to the Seventy-ninth Session of the General Assembly of the
    United Nations
-   Adam Gamoran, to be Director of the Institute of Education Sciences,
    Department of Education

Additionally, President Biden announced his intent to nominate the
following individuals to serve as Republican members of boards and
commissions that are required, by statute, to include bipartisan
membership.

-   Lanhee J. Chen, to be a Member (Republican) of the Amtrak Board of
    Directors
-   Gordon Hartogensis, to be a Governor (Republican) of the United
    States Postal Service Board of Governors

**<u>Ben Cardin, to be Representative of the United States to the 79th
Session of the General Assembly of the United Nations</u>**

Born and raised in Baltimore, Senator Ben Cardin has dedicated his life
to public service. He is an outspoken champion for human rights and has
been a national leader on foreign policy, tax policy and the environment
while representing the people of Maryland in the U.S. Senate, and before
that in the House of Representatives. He is a former Speaker of the
Maryland House of Delegates. Currently serving as Chair of the Senate
Foreign Relations Committee, Senator Cardin has worked across party
lines to further U.S. national security and to ensure that democracy,
anti-corruption, transparency, good governance and respect for civil and
human rights are integrated into American actions at home and abroad.

Senator Cardin is the lead author of the Global Magnitsky Human Rights
and Accountability Act, which gives the United States the power to deny
travel and banking privileges to individuals worldwide who commit gross
violations of human rights against rights defenders and dissidents, and
leaders who commit acts of significant corruption. He also is the author
of the recently reauthorized Elie Wiesel Genocide and Atrocities
Prevention Act, which in 2018 codified into law the prevention of
atrocities as a national security interest. 

Senator Cardin also serves on the Environment and Public Works, Finance
and Small Business and Entrepreneurship Committees. He is a strident
defender of the Chesapeake Bay and the environment. He has led multiple,
bipartisan delegations to the United Nations Framework Convention on
Climate Change, dating back to the Paris Accords. He has taken the lead
on reviving the Equal Rights Amendment, believes health care is a right
of all Americans, and fights for resources to fix our crumbling water
infrastructure.

**<u>Dan Sullivan, to be Representative of the United States to the 79th
Session of the General Assembly of the United Nations</u>** 

Dan Sullivan was sworn in as Alaska’s eighth United States Senator on
January 6, 2015. Senator Sullivan serves on four Senate committees vital
to Alaska: Armed Services, Environment and Public Works Committee,
Veterans’ Affairs, and Commerce, Science and Transportation.  

Senator Sullivan has been able to pass numerous bills and amendments
related to rebuilding and modernizing our country’s military, expanding
responsible resource development, reining in federal overreach, spurring
economic development, expanding benefits for veterans, and helping those
who are most vulnerable, including survivors of sexual assault and
domestic violence.  

Prior to his election to the Senate, Sullivan served as Alaska’s
Attorney General and Commissioner of the Department of Natural
Resources—where he focused on growing Alaska’s economy and pushing back
against federal government overreach. Senator Sullivan served in the
George W. Bush administration as the U.S. Assistant Secretary of State
for Economic, Energy, and Business under Secretary of State Condoleezza
Rice, and as a Director in the International Economics Directorate of
the National Security Council staff at the White House.  

He served for 30 years in the United States Marine Corps, retiring on
February 1, 2024 as a Colonel in the Marine Corps Reserve. He also
serves as Chairman of the International Republican Institute (IRI).  

Senator Sullivan holds a B.A. in Economics from Harvard University and a
joint Law and Master of Science degree in Foreign Service from
Georgetown University. He and his wife, Julie Fate Sullivan, were
married in 1994 in Julie’s hometown of Fairbanks, Alaska. They have
three daughters. 

**<u>Tanya Leigh Flores, to be Representative of the United States to
the 79th Session of the General Assembly of the United Nations</u>**

Tanya Leigh Flores is a communications and operations strategist who has
worked with Fortune 50 corporations, federal, state, and local
governments, and non-profit organizations. She has previously served in
various roles in support of the Biden-Harris Administration, including
spousal program operations for the Department of State for the 2022
Summit of Americas in Los Angeles as well as an advisor to the
Department of Homeland Security on leadership planning for the 2023
North America Leaders’ Summit in Mexico City and the 2023 Munich
Security Conference. 

Flores was Chief Operating Officer for the 59th Presidential Inaugural
Committee, where she managed a diverse portfolio of divisions, including
financial and event operations, security, credentialing, human
resources, and COVID-19 safety. During the 2020 election cycle, she
served as Director of Scheduling and Advance for the Biden-Harris
campaign. In 2021, Flores was appointed by Governor Gavin Newsom as
Deputy Director of the California Film Commission where she oversaw
operations, outreach, and legislative efforts in support of filming in
the State of California. Flores served in a senior role on the LA28 Bid
Committee, helping to obtain the award of the Olympic and Paralympic
Games, which are to be hosted by the city of Los Angeles in 2028. She
has traveled as head of advance delegations for the Bidens since 2011. 

Flores holds MBA degrees from both Columbia Business School and UC
Berkeley’s Haas School of Business and a B.A. from the University of
Maryland. A native Texan, she lives in Los Angeles with her partner,
Michael Dundas.

**<u>Michael Trager, to be Representative of the United States to the
79th Session of the General Assembly of the United Nations</u>** 

Michael Trager has spent time in both government and the private sector.
In 2022, Trager was appointed by President Biden to the U.S. Department
of State’s Fulbright Foreign Scholarship Board, where he continues to
serve as Vice Chair and on the Executive Committee. The Board supervises
the global Fulbright Program, which is led by the U.S. government in
partnership with more than 160 countries to promote worldwide mutual
understanding and provide for a more secure and peaceful world. The
Program is a primary facilitator of international educational exchange,
cultural diplomacy, and soft power.

Previously, Trager had been a Washington lawyer for 35 years and a U.S.
government attorney prior to entering private practice. He was the
founding Co-Chair of the Securities Enforcement and Litigation Practice
at the international law firm of Arnold & Porter, and he held that
position for approximately two decades as well as other firmwide
leadership roles while a senior partner. In private practice, he
represented clients in governmental and regulatory investigations and
matters, and he was recognized and ranked nationally as a leading lawyer
in his field.

At the beginning of his career, Trager served in the Division of
Enforcement of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission in the
Washington Headquarters. He earned a B.A. from Wesleyan University and a
J.D. from Boston University School of Law. While at Wesleyan, he studied
abroad at the London School of Economics and Political Science. He
resides in Washington, D.C. and is married to Mariella Trager. They have
two adult children. 

**<u>Adam Gamoran, to be Director of the Institute of Education
Sciences, Department of Education</u>**

Adam Gamoran is President of the William T. Grant Foundation, a
charitable organization that supports research to improve the lives of
young people. Previously, he held the John D. MacArthur Chair in
Sociology and Educational Policy Studies at the University of
Wisconsin-Madison, where he spent three decades engaged in research on
educational inequality and school reform. He has lectured at
universities across the United States and worldwide, and his writing has
appeared in books, journals, magazines, blog posts, and other media. In
2021-2022, he led a committee of the National Academies of Sciences,
Engineering, and Medicine that produced a report on The Future of
Education Research at IES. For his research contributions, he has been
honored by the Association for Public Policy Analysis and Management,
the American Educational Research Association, and the Sociology of
Education Section of the American Sociological Association. He is a
member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and a member and
former vice president of the National Academy of Education, and he was
twice appointed by President Barack Obama to serve on the National Board
for Education Sciences. 

**<u>Lanhee J. Chen, to be a Member (Republican) of the Amtrak Board of
Directors</u>**

Lanhee J. Chen is the David and Diane Steffy Fellow in American Public
Policy Studies at the Hoover Institution and Director of Domestic Policy
Studies and Lecturer in the Public Policy Program at Stanford
University. Chen has spent his career in business, government, as well
as academia, and was a candidate in 2022 for California State
Controller, the state’s chief fiscal officer. Chen is a member of the
Board of Directors and Chair of the Governance Committee at El Camino
Health in Northern California, and previously served as Board Chair. He
is also a Partner at the Brunswick Group, a global critical issues
advisory firm, where he is co-lead of the U.S. Public Affairs, Policy
and Regulatory practice. Chen is also an adviser to or serves on the
boards of several private companies and nonprofit organizations.
Previously, he was an operating partner at NewRoad Capital Partners, a
private equity firm. 

From 2014 to 2018, Chen was appointed by President Barack Obama and
confirmed by the U.S. Senate to serve as a member of the Social Security
Advisory Board. He also served in the George W. Bush Administration as a
senior official at the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services.
Chen has been a policy adviser to four U.S. presidential campaigns,
including as Policy Director to Senator Mitt Romney during his 2012 bid
for the presidency.

Chen earned his PhD and A.M. in Political Science from Harvard
University; his J.D. cum laude from Harvard Law School; and his A.B.
magna cum laude in Government from Harvard College.

**<u>Gordon Hartogensis, to be a Governor (Republican) of the United
States Postal Service Board of Governors</u>**

Gordon Hartogensis is an entrepreneur, investor, and government official
who recently completed a five-year term as the Director of the Pension
Benefit Guaranty Corporation (PBGC) from 2019-2024.

Hartogensis left an early career on Wall Street in 1993 to build a
startup software company called Petrolsoft Corporation – a supply chain
and logistics company that was later acquired by Aspen Technology. He
served in a leadership role at Aspen until June 2002.

Shortly after his departure from Aspen Technology, he founded Auric
Technology, a customer relationship management software company. In
2011, Auric was sold to Telnorm. Following his departure from Auric, he
was an angel investor and advisor to several technology startups in
cybersecurity, immunotherapy, streaming video, fintech, and artificial
intelligence.

Hartogensis grew up in Maryland where he attended Montgomery County
public schools. He holds a B.S. in Computer Science from Stanford
University and an M.S. in Technology Management from Columbia
University.

Hartogensis and his wife Grace reside in Connecticut.

\# \# \#  
