---
date: '2024-09-26'
published_time: 2024-09-26 15:39:14-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/09/26/statement-from-president-joe-biden-on-the-passing-of-william-bill-lucy/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Statement from President Joe\_Biden on the Passing of William \u201CBill\u201D\
  \_Lucy"
---
 
Bill Lucy was a courageous labor leader who dedicated his life bending
the arc of history toward justice.

Of his seven decades as a giant in the movement, Bill spent nearly forty
years as Secretary-Treasurer of the American Federation of State, County
and Municipal Employees. He also founded the Coalition of Black Trade
Unionists. No matter the title or the place, he worked tirelessly to
advance civil rights and labor rights for all Americans, changing the
course of history and redeeming the soul of America.

His dedication led to increased benefits and protections for America’s
public servants who keep our communities safe, care for the sick, and so
much more.

A native of Memphis, Tennessee, he marched with Dr. King to secure the
rights of sanitation workers. Bill’s decree, “I Am a Man,” shed light on
the humanity of our Nation’s laborers and became a nationwide rallying
cry for dignity and equality, two of our most sacred American values.

Over the course of his towering leadership, I saw Bill in action. He
believed, like I do, that working class issues and civil rights issues
are deeply intertwined, as he strengthened the role of Black Americans
in our Nation’s unions and fought to dismantle apartheid in South
Africa.

He will forever be remembered for his unrelenting commitment to justice,
fairness, and equality—at home and abroad.

Jill and I send our love and condolences to his family, the labor
movement he empowered, and every worker whose life he made better.

May God bless Bill Lucy, a great American, and a good man.

\###
