---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-07-29'
modified_time: 2021-07-29 10:27:05-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/07/29/statement-by-white-house-press-secretary-jen-psaki-on-biden-harris-administration-eviction-prevention-efforts/
published_time: 2021-07-29 10:30:00-04:00
title: "Statement by White\_House Press Secretary Jen\_Psaki on Biden-\u2060Harris\
  \ Administration Eviction Prevention\_Efforts"
---
 
For nearly 11 months, the CDC’s eviction moratorium has served as a
critical backstop to prevent hard-pressed renters and their families who
lost jobs or income due to the COVID-19 pandemic from being evicted for
nonpayment of rent.  This moratorium prevented hundreds of thousands of
Americans from experiencing the heartbreak, homelessness, and health
risks that too often emanate from evictions –particularly during a
pandemic. The Administration considered it a prudent public health
decision when the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)
extended the eviction moratorium until July 31<sup>st</sup>.

Given the recent spread of the Delta variant, including among those
Americans both most likely to face evictions and lacking vaccinations,
President Biden would have strongly supported a decision by the CDC to
further extend this eviction moratorium to protect renters at this
moment of heightened vulnerability. Unfortunately, the Supreme Court has
made clear that this option is no longer available.  In June, when CDC
extended the eviction moratorium until July 31<sup>st</sup>, the Supreme
Court’s ruling stated that “clear and specific congressional
authorization (via new legislation) would be necessary for the CDC to
extend the moratorium past July 31.”

In light of the Supreme Court’s ruling, the President calls on Congress
to extend the eviction moratorium to protect such vulnerable renters and
their families without delay. In addition, he has asked the U.S.
Departments of Housing and Urban Development, Agriculture, and Veterans
Affairs to extend their respective eviction moratoria through the end of
September, which will provide continued protection for households living
in federally-insured, single-family properties. The President has also
asked these and other departments to do everything in their power so
that owners and operators of federally-assisted and financed rental
housing seek Emergency Rental Assistance to make themselves whole while
keeping families in secure and safe housing – before moving toward
eviction.

Finally, the President urges states and localities, which long ago
received Emergency Rental Assistance – including through the American
Rescue Plan – to urgently accelerate their efforts to disburse these
funds given the imminent ending of the CDC eviction moratorium. With
some cities and states demonstrating their ability to release these
funds efficiently to tenants and landlords in need, there can be no
excuse for any state or locality not to promptly deploy the resources
that Congress appropriated to meet this critical need of so many
Americans.

The Administration remains committed to doing everything in its power to
keep people safely and securely housed, which is essential to the
health, well-being and dignity of all of us.

\###
