---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-07-06'
modified_time: 2021-07-06 21:56:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/07/06/readout-of-deputy-national-security-advisor-for-cyber-and-emerging-technology-anne-neubergers-meeting-with-bipartisan-u-s-conference-of-mayors/
published_time: 2021-07-06 21:55:59-04:00
title: "Readout of Deputy National Security Advisor for Cyber and Emerging Technology\
  \ Anne Neuberger\u2019s Meeting with Bipartisan U.S. Conference of\_Mayors"
---
 
Today, as part of ongoing engagement with stakeholders across the
country, Deputy National Security Advisor for Cyber and Emerging
Technology Anne Neuberger met virtually with the bipartisan U.S.
Conference of Mayors to speak to the cybersecurity challenges facing
cities and towns across the nation, including the threat from
ransomware. Neuberger described the Administration’s ransomware strategy
which includes several lines of effort: disruption of ransomware
infrastructure and actors by working closely with the private sector;
international cooperation to hold countries who harbor ransom actors
accountable; expanding cryptocurrency analysis to find and pursue
criminal transactions; and the federal government’s review to build a
cohesive and consistent approach towards ransom payments.  
  
Participants also discussed how mayors and the Administration can work
together to prevent and respond to cyber threats against cities and
towns, and how to best posture communities across the country to reduce
the likelihood of cyber incidents. Neuberger reinforced the
Administration’s commitment to ensure state and local governments have
the full resources of the federal government when responding to a cyber
incident, including the assistance of cybersecurity professionals from
the FBI and the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA).
Neuberger listened to the mayors on the cyber challenges they are
facing, and briefed them on measures they can immediately take to help
bolster cyber defenses.  
  
Neuberger outlined the measures the Biden Administration has already
taken to modernize cyber defenses, including the recent “Improving the
Nation’s Cybersecurity” Executive Order (E.O.) and the Administration’s
ongoing efforts to partner with the public and private sectors to
strengthen cyber defenses including for critical infrastructure. She
spoke about the recent public-private Cybersecurity Industrial Control
Systems Initiative and its pilot program to strengthen cyber resilience
in the electric sector, noting the electric sector pilot will soon be
followed by similar initiatives to strengthen the cyber resilience of
other critical sectors like pipelines, water, and chemicals. In a
reference to her open letter to the private sector, Neuberger reiterated
the need for private and public sector partnership to effectively guard
against ransomware, and urged mayors to immediately convene heads of
state agencies to review their cybersecurity posture and continuity
plans.   
  
The threat of ransomware is a national security and economic security
priority for the Administration. Tomorrow the President will convene key
leaders across the interagency to discuss ransomware and strategic
efforts to counter it.

\###
