---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-07-01'
modified_time: 2021-07-02 09:25:02-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/07/01/u-s-covid-19-global-response-and-recovery-framework/
published_time: 2021-07-01 19:26:09-04:00
title: "U.S. COVID-\u206019 Global Response and Recovery\_Framework"
---
 
More than 600,000 of our fellow Americans, and nearly 4 million people
globally, have died due to COVID-19. The devastating impact of the
pandemic has been felt at home and abroad, triggering health and
economic crises. Globally, we are witnessing the first wide
scale increase in extreme poverty in more than twenty years, the loss of
decades of development progress, increases in gender-based
violence, rising food insecurity, and increased
unemployment—particularly among young people and women. Even as we gain
confidence in United States (U.S.) domestic COVID-19 vaccination
coverage, none of us are safe until all of us are safe. The risk of
emergent, dangerous variants where COVID-19 transmission remains high
poses a risk to us all.  This disease knows no borders.

The U.S. will work with our partners to intensify the fight
against COVID-19 around the world, pave the way to global recovery, and
build back better national and global health security. Our first goal is
to end the pandemic—at home and abroad. On January 21, 2021, President
Biden released the [National Strategy for the COVID-19 Response and 
Pandemic
Preparedness](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/01/National-Strategy-for-the-COVID-19-Response-and-Pandemic-Preparedness.pdf),
including Goal 7, which details the Biden-Harris Administration’s
comprehensive plan to restore U.S. leadership globally and build better
preparedness for future threats; re-engage with the World Health
Organization (WHO) and seek to strengthen and reform it; urge the
international COVID-19 public health and humanitarian response; restore
U.S. leadership to the international COVID-19 response and advance
global health security and diplomacy; and build better biopreparedness
and expand resilience for biological threats.

In support of that strategy, the U.S. COVID-19 Global Response and
Recovery Framework provides a focused set of objectives and lines of
effort under which U.S. departments of agencies are executing a
whole-of-government response.  This response aims to shorten the
lifespan of and ultimately end the COVID-19 pandemic globally; mitigate
its wider harms to people and economies and support the global recovery;
and build back better to strengthen international readiness for future
biological threats. The U.S. Government will pursue five objectives
under the U.S. COVID-19 Global Response and Recovery Framework that
together constitute a comprehensive approach to managing the immediate
global health crisis and ending the pandemic.  

The U.S. COVID-19 Global Response and Recovery Framework<sup> </sup>also
supports U.S. commitments to the [G7<sup>+</sup> Plan to Defeat the
COVID-19 Pandemic in 2022 and Prevent the Next
Pandemic](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/06/11/fact-sheet-united-states-and-g7-plan-to-defeat-the-covid-19-pandemic-in-2022-and-prevent-the-next-pandemic/) by
supporting vaccination of the world’s most vulnerable populations,
supporting last mile vaccination and getting shots in arms, providing
personal protective equipment (PPE) and medical supplies where needed,
strengthening supply, improving disease surveillance and early warning,
supporting recovery, building resilience, and advancing global health
security.

Read the full framework
here: <https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/07/U.S.-COVID-19-Global-Response-and-Recovery-Framework.pdf>

\###
