---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-07-30'
modified_time: 2021-07-30 16:30:24-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/07/30/president-biden-announces-five-key-nominations-3/
published_time: 2021-07-30 16:30:23-04:00
title: "President\_Biden Announces Five Key\_Nominations"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, Joe Biden announced his intent to nominate the
following five individuals to serve in key roles:

-   Ramin Toloui, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for Economic and
    Business Affairs, Department of State
-   Jennifer Clyburn Reed, Nominee for Federal Co-Chair of the Southeast
    Crescent Regional Commission
-   Leslie Bluhm, Nominee for Member of the Board of Directors of
    AmeriCorps
-   Lisette Nieves, Nominee for Member of the Board of Directors of
    AmeriCorps
-   Flor Romero, Nominee for Member of the Board of Directors of
    AmeriCorps

**<u>Ramin Toloui, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for Economic and
Business Affairs, Department of State</u>**

Ramin Toloui is Professor of the Practice for International Finance at
Stanford University, and Tad and Diane Taube Policy Fellow at the
Stanford Institute for Economic Policy Research. His teaching and
research focus on international economic policy, financial crises, and
the economic impact of artificial intelligence. He recently led the
policy review for international economics on the Biden-Harris Transition
Team, in addition to serving on the State Department agency review team.
Prior to joining Stanford, Toloui had a two-decade career spanning
public service and investment management. He served in the Obama-Biden
Administration as Assistant Secretary for International Finance at the
Department of the Treasury, representing the United States in forums
like the G7 and G20. Previously he was Global Co-Head of Emerging
Markets Portfolio Management at the Pacific Investment Management
Company (PIMCO), overseeing more than $100 billion in investments. He
began his career as a civil servant at the Department of the Treasury.
Toloui earned his A.B. degree in economics from Harvard University and
an M.Phil. degree in International Relations from Oxford University,
where he was a Rhodes Scholar.

**<u>Jennifer Clyburn Reed, Nominee for Federal Co-Chair of the
Southeast Crescent Regional Commission</u>**

Dr. Jennifer Clyburn Reed is a career educator whose education and
teaching experience span 28 years in public and private schools and
universities. A recent retiree from the University of South Carolina
(UofSC), she holds Bachelors, Masters and Specialist degrees from UofSC
and an earned doctoral degree from Nova Southeastern University (NSU) in
Florida.

Prior to directing a research and teaching center at UofSC , she taught
elementary and middle school and served as school site coordinator of
the Advancement via Individual Determination (AVID) program, a college
preparatory system designed for students with academic potential, many
of whom were first generation college attendees. 

While Director, Dr. Reed also co-coordinated the design and
implementation of the Apple Core Initiative (ACI), a scholarship program
for incoming freshmen to the USC College of Education’s teacher
education program. Currently, she serves on the selection committee for
the $1.7 million Emily Clyburn Honors College Scholarship at South
Carolina State University, a public HBCU. 

Dr. Reed is a member of Delta Sigma Theta Sorority, Inc. and a Rotarian.
She is co-owner of a property investment company, 49 Magnolia Blossom,
LLC and President of its non-profit arm, Magnolia Blossom SC. Dr. Reed
is also the CEO of Palmetto Issues Conference, LLC, an issues-based
advisory group advocating for accessible and equitable policies in
education, health, housing and infrastructure.

Dr. Reed is married to Mississippi native Walter A. Reed. They have two
adult children – Walter A. Clyburn Reed and Sydney Alexis Reed. The Reed
family resides in South Carolina.

**<u>Leslie N. Bluhm, Nominee for Member of the Board of Directors of
AmeriCorps</u>**

Leslie N. Bluhm is a social entrepreneur who empowers people to tackle
challenges through collaborative action. 

In 1991, she co-founded Chicago Cares, Inc., the city’s leading
volunteer service organization. Chicago Cares builds group volunteer
programs that meet the critical needs of the community while using the
volunteer experience to educate volunteers from diverse communities
about each other; building trust, empathy and connection.

Leslie was named one of six Chicagoans of the year by Chicago Magazine
and was named to Crain’s 40 under 40. She serves on the board of
directors of Chicago Cares, The Chicago Community Trust, The Museum of
Contemporary Art Chicago, OneGoal, Whitney Museum of American Art,
Shining Hope for Communities, and Rush Street Interactive, Inc.

She earned a BA from the University of Michigan and a JD from the
University of Chicago Law School. She and her husband David Helfand
reside in Chicago and have two sons. 

**<u>Lisette Nieves, Nominee for Member of the Board of Directors of
AmeriCorps</u>**

Lisette Nieves is the President of the Fund for the City of New York
(FCNY), charged with developing and helping to implement innovations in
policy, programs, practices and technology to advance the functioning of
government and nonprofit organizations in New York City and beyond.
Lisette is also a Distinguished Clinical Professor with NYU, overseeing
doctoral students and supporting change and innovation research
initiatives in the doctoral program Leadership and Innovation, which she
co-founded.

Lisette has also served in a variety of cross sector leadership
positions. She is an experienced social entrepreneur and public sector
leader. She has supported community social entrepreneurs and educators
through her prior work with Lingo Ventures, a company she co-founded
focused on growth, talent recruitment/retention, and change management.
Lisette also served as the Belle Zeller Distinguished Visiting Professor
in Public Policy at the City University of New York at Brooklyn College.
Lisette was the founding Executive Director of Year Up NY, an innovative
workforce development program, where, in the span of five years, she
grew the organization from a $250,000 seed grant to a $6 million
operation with over 20 corporate partnerships. Her interest in workforce
and education led to her dissertation on the relationship between
student work and school roles, for which she received the 2016
Dissertation of the Year Award by the (NCSD – AACC). Lisette also began
her career in service serving full time in New York as a City Volunteer
Corps member before she attended Brooklyn College for her undergraduate
degree. She was also a proud team member of the launch of the AmeriCorps
program under the Clinton administration.  

Lisette holds a B.A. from Brooklyn College, a B.A./M.A. from the
University of Oxford, an M.P.A. from the Woodrow Wilson School at
Princeton University and a doctorate with distinction in Higher
Education Management at the University of Pennsylvania. She is a Truman
Scholar, Rhodes Scholar, Aspen Pahara Fellow and a 2020 Richard P.
Nathan Public Policy Fellow. Her board affiliations include the Edwin
Gould Foundation, AVID, The Education Trust, NewSchools Venture Fund,
Jobs for the Future (JFF), Stand for Children, Ellevation and a Trustee
of the New York Public Library.

**<u>Flor Romero, Nominee for Member of the Board of Directors of
AmeriCorps</u>**

The daughter of first-generation Salvadoran immigrants, Flor Romero is a
social worker who has dedicated her career to historically marginalized
communities through equity and access initiatives.

At age 14, Flor realized the importance of resources that were missing
in her hometown to help the community thrive. As a Psychology major at
UCLA, she was found a work-study job that aligned with her passion and
goals: Jumpstart, an early education AmeriCorps organization dedicated
to helping bridge the achievement gap between minority students and
their affluent peers. For her four years at UCLA, Flor stayed with
Jumpstart, which inspired her to pursue a Master’s degree in Social Work
with a focus on social change and innovation at the University of
Southern California.

Throughout her career, Flor has led community-focused projects, working
with stakeholders and leaders on foster care and adoption, mental
health, education, and more. During her time at USC, she spearheaded a
successful reading program across the Los Angeles Unified School
District, the second-largest school district in the nation, working
closely with schools in Los Angeles County and increasing reading among
students. Currently she works at Fraser Communications, where she works
on accounts that strive for equal opportunity.

\###
