---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-07-27'
modified_time: 2021-07-27 16:08:45-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/07/27/president-biden-announces-nine-key-nominations/
published_time: 2021-07-27 16:08:44-04:00
title: "President\_Biden Announces Nine Key\_Nominations"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Joe Biden announced his intent to nominate
the following nine individuals to serve in key roles:

-   William Valdez, Nominee for Under Secretary for Management,
    Department of Homeland Security
-   Erik Hooks, Nominee for Deputy Administrator for Federal Emergency
    Management Agency
-   Lisa Gomez, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for Employee Benefits
    Security, Department of Labor
-   Adrienne Wojciechowski, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for
    Congressional Relations, Department of Agriculture
-   Mark Gitenstein, Nominee for Representative of the United States of
    America to the European Union, with rank and status of Ambassador
    Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary
-   Laura S. H. Holgate, Nominee for Representative of the United States
    of America to the Vienna Office of the United Nations, with the rank
    of Ambassador, and Representative of the United States of America to
    the International Atomic Energy Agency, with the Rank of Ambassador 
-   Patricia Mahoney, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
    Plenipotentiary to the Central African Republic
-   Julissa Reynoso Pantaleon, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
    Plenipotentiary to the Kingdom of Spain and to the Principality of
    Andorra
-   Peter Hendrick Vrooman, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
    Plenipotentiary to the Republic of Mozambique

**<u>William Valdez, Nominee for Under Secretary for Management,
Department of Homeland Security</u>**

William J. Valdez is a former career member of the Senior Executive
Service at the Department of Energy and past President of the Senior
Executives Association.  He is currently the co-founder and Board
President of the Alliance of Latinx Leadership & Policy, which supports
a leadership pipeline for Latinx professionals who want to pursue a
career in public service.  Valdez is a recognized thought leader in the
management of government agencies and has worked for 27 years to improve
the effectiveness of government, with a goal of providing maximum
mission delivery on behalf of the U.S. taxpayer.  A current focus is
using technology to improve human capital, procurement, and financial
management processes to free up Federal employees from paperwork and
focus on delivering mission.

Valdez was raised in an Air Force family and is the proud father of
three extraordinary professional women, and is Papi to four
grandchildren.  He and his wife Marlana Valdez live in Takoma Park, MD. 
Valdez was the recipient of a 2007 Presidential Rank Award (Meritorious)
and is an elected Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement
of Science.

**<u>Erik Hooks, Nominee for Deputy Administrator for Federal Emergency
Management Agency</u>**

In January 2017, Secretary Hooks was appointed by the Governor of North
Carolina as the Secretary of Public Safety and the State’s Homeland
Security Advisor.  Secretary Hooks provides cabinet level leadership to
the NC Division of Emergency Management and Homeland Security Section,
the NC National Guard, the NC Office of Recovery and Resilience, the NC
State Highway Patrol, the NC Alcohol Law Enforcement Division, the NC
State Capitol Police, the Division of Adult Correction and Juvenile
Justice, the Governor’s Crime Commission, and support divisions within
the state’s Department of Public Safety. Secretary Hooks leads
approximately 27,000 sworn and civilian public safety professionals as
well as approximately 12,000 National Guard soldiers and Airmen.

A native of North Carolina, Secretary Hooks has more than 30 years of
public safety experience. He is responsible for leadership coordination
of homeland security and emergency management functions to provide
comprehensive and coordinated preparedness, mitigation, prevention,
protection, response and recovery for emergencies, disasters, and acts
or threats of terrorism. As North Carolina’s State Administrative Agent,
Secretary Hooks administers federal funds to state, local and tribal
entities across North Carolina. Secretary Hooks chairs the North
Carolina State Emergency Response Commission and coordinates law
enforcement counterterrorism prevention, preparedness, and response
training on a statewide basis resulting in a cohesive team response by
both law enforcement and emergency first responders to acts of terrorism
or a terrorist threat.  

Secretary Hooks has a master’s degree and undergraduate degree from
North Carolina University. Additionally, he successfully completed the
FBI National Executive Institute, and the Commandant’s National Security
Program at the US Army War College. Secretary Hooks serves on the
Executive Committee of the National Governors Homeland Security Advisors
Council and is a member of the International Association of Chiefs of
Police.

**<u>Lisa Gomez, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for Employee Benefits
Security, Department of Labor</u>**

Lisa M. Gomez is a partner with the law firm Cohen, Weiss and Simon LLP
and the Chair of the Firm’s Management Committee.  Since 1994, she has
developed her deep technical and practical experience in the
multifaceted field of employee benefits law, representing various
Taft-Hartley and multiemployer pension and welfare plans, single
employer plans, jointly administered training program trust funds, a
federal employees health benefit (FEHB) plan, supplemental health plans,
and VEBAs. 

Gomez serves as a Co-Chair of the Board of Senior Editors of the
Bloomberg BNA treatise *Employee Benefits Law*. Gomez also served as the
Union Co-Chair of the ABA Section of Labor and Employment Law Committee
on Employee Benefits , as a member of the Programming Committee for the
ABA Section of Labor and Employment Law Committee on Employee Benefits’
Midwinter Meeting, and as a Union Co-Chair of the ABA Section of Labor
and Employment Law’s E-FLASH newsletter.  She is a graduate of the
American Bar Association Section of Labor and Employment Law’s
Leadership Development Program and is currently the Union Co-Chair for
that Program.  She is a member of the International Foundation of
Employee Benefit Plans and the AFL-CIO Union Lawyers Alliance.  She is a
frequent lecturer on topics such as health care reform, various health
plan compliance issues, benefit claim and appeals procedures and
litigation, subrogation, ethics, LGBTQIA+ benefits, multiemployer plan
contribution enforcement, qualified domestic relations orders, and other
topics.  In 2014, she was inducted as a Fellow of The American College
of Employee Benefits Counsel, Inc. in recognition of her over twenty
years of practice in employee benefits law and her contributions to the
field. Lisa is also a member of the Advisory Board of The Peggy Browning
Fund, a non-profit organization devoted to advancing law students who
wish to pursue careers protecting workers’ rights.  She previously
served as a volunteer mediator for the New Jersey Supreme Court, Law
Division, Special Civil Part, Somerset County.

Lisa is admitted in the United States District Court for the Southern
and Eastern Districts of New York and the District of New Jersey, as
well as the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit.  She is a
graduate of the Fordham University School of Law (J.D. 1994) and Hofstra
University (B.A. 1991).

**<u>Adrienne Wojciechowski, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for
Congressional Relations, Department of Agriculture</u>**

Adrienne Wojciechowski has worked in the Senate for 14 years and is
currently serving as Professional Staff of the Agriculture Subcommittee
of the U.S. Senate Appropriations Committee. In that capacity she leads
the Subcommittee’s work on farm production, conservation, climate
change, dairy, crop insurance, specialty crops and organic, local food
systems, marketing, and research and education at land grant
institutions. Prior to joining the Appropriations Committee, she served
as a senior policy advisor for U.S. Senator Patrick Leahy of Vermont,
advising the senator on agriculture, environment, forestry, and energy
issues and as a professional staff member on the U.S. Senate Judiciary
Committee. In that role she oversaw his work on the 2018 and 2014 Farm
Bills, the Healthy, Hunger-Free Kids Act of 2010, the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission (CFTC) portions of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform
and Consumer Protection Act, and supported his work on the 2008 Farm
Bill.

Earlier in her career she was a government relations associate at The
Nature Conservancy, leading efforts to strengthen federal agriculture
and forestry programs to achieve cleaner water, healthier soil, improved
habitat, and greater outdoor recreation opportunities. She is a graduate
of the University of Maryland, College Park where she earned a Bachelor
of Science in Agricultural and Resource Economics and a Bachelor of Arts
in Government and Politics. Growing up in Maryland, Wojciechowski
developed a passion for agriculture from her parents and her active
involvement in 4-H, where she showed beef cattle.

**<u>Mark Gitenstein, Nominee for Representative of the United States of
America to the European Union, with rank and status of Ambassador
Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary</u>**

Mark Gitenstein is Senior Counsel at Mayer Brown LLP, and a former U.S.
Ambassador to Romania. He has spent most of the last decade working on
projects in Central and Eastern Europe.  As Ambassador, he focused on
fighting corruption and preserving democratic institutions, issues he
continued to focus on through his work as a lawyer and with NGOs. Since
his term as ambassador ended in 2012, he has returned to the region over
two dozen times since then.

Earlier in his career, Gitenstein worked for 17 years in the U.S. Senate
as Chief Counsel or Minority Chief Counsel of the Judiciary Committee,
Chief Counsel of the Judiciary Committee’s Subcommittee on Criminal
Justice, and Counsel for the Intelligence Committee.  In 2008 he
co-chaired then Senator Biden’s transition to the vice presidency. In
2021 he served as a senior advisor to and member of the advisory
committee to the Biden presidential transition. 

Gitenstein earned an A.B. at Duke University and a J.D. at Georgetown
University Law School.  He was awarded the Star of Romania, the nation’s
highest civilian honor, by the President of Romania in 2012.

**<u>Laura S. H. Holgate, Nominee for Representative of the United
States of America to the Vienna Office of the United Nations, with the
rank of Ambassador, and Representative of the United States of America
to the International Atomic Energy Agency, with the Rank of
Ambassador </u>**

Laura S. H. Holgate is Vice President for Materials Risk Management at
the Nuclear Threat Initiative, in Washington, D.C., where she leads
NTI’s activities to prevent nuclear terrorism, including reducing
quantities and enhancing security of nuclear and radiological materials
around the world, promoting cooperation between the United States and
key partners on nuclear and radiological security, and strengthening the
global nuclear security architecture.  She served as U.S. Representative
to the International Atomic Energy Agency and Vienna Office of the
United Nations, with the rank of Ambassador, in 2016, and previously was
Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director for weapons of
mass destruction terrorism and threat reduction on the National Security
Council. In this role, she led the preparation of four Nuclear Security
Summits and co-initiated the Global Health Security Agenda. 

Previously, Holgate directed the U.S. Department of Energy’s Office of
Fissile Materials Disposition and was special coordinator for
cooperative threat reduction at the U.S. Department of Defense.  She is
a co-founder of Gender Champions in Nuclear Policy, and serves on
multiple advisory boards.  Holgate received a B.A. at Princeton
University, an M.S. from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and
spent two years on the research staff at Harvard University’s Belfer
Center for Science and International Affairs.   

**<u>Patricia Mahoney, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
Plenipotentiary to the Central African Republic</u>**

Patricia Mahoney, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class
of Minister-Counselor, currently serves as U.S. Ambassador to the
Republic of Benin. Previously she was an Acting Deputy Assistant
Secretary in the Bureau of East Asian and Pacific Affairs and the Office
Director of the Office of Mainland Southeast Asia, also in the Bureau of
East Asian and Pacific Affairs. Earlier, Mahoney was the Deputy Chief of
Mission of the U.S. Embassy in Kampala, Uganda, and before that the
Deputy Chief of Mission of the U.S. Embassy in Kathmandu, Nepal. Mahoney
also served as Director for South Asia at the National Security Council.
Mahoney earned her B.A. cum laude from Harvard University, Cambridge,
Massachusetts and her M.A. from the University of Hawaii.  She is a
Distinguished Graduate of the National War College in Washington, D.C.,
receiving an M.S. degree in 2009.  Ms. Mahoney speaks French, Thai,
Nepali and Lao. 

**<u>Julissa Reynoso Pantaleon, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
Plenipotentiary to the Kingdom of Spain and to the Principality of
Andorra</u>**

Julissa Reynoso is an Assistant to the President and Chief of Staff to
Dr. Jill Biden, and the Co-Chair of the Gender Policy Council at the
White House.  A former U.S. Ambassador to Uruguay, Reynoso also served
as Deputy Assistant Secretary of State in the Bureau of Western
Hemisphere Affairs.  She is a former partner at the international law
firm of Winston & Strawn LLP, in New York, and served on the faculty of
Columbia University School of Law and School of International and Public
Affairs.  Reynoso is widely published in English and Spanish on an array
of issues including comparative law, regulatory reform, community
organizing, immigration policy, and Latin American politics for both
popular press and academic journals.  She holds a B.A. in Government
from Harvard University, a Masters in Philosophy from the University of
Cambridge in the United Kingdom and a J.D. from Columbia University
School of Law.  She clerked for the Honorable Federal Judge Laura Taylor
Swain.  She is fluent in Spanish.

**<u>Peter Hendrick Vrooman, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
Plenipotentiary to the Republic of Mozambique</u>**

Peter Hendrick Vrooman, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service,
class of Minister-Counselor, is the U.S. Ambassador to the Republic of
Rwanda.  Ambassador Vrooman recently served as the Chargé d’Affaires and
Deputy Chief of Mission of the U.S. Embassy in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia. 
Prior to that he served as the spokesperson for the U.S. Embassy in New
Delhi; Director for Iraq on the staff of the National Security Council
in Washington, D.C.; and Deputy Political Counselor in Tel Aviv and at
the U.S. Mission to the United Nations.  He also worked at the U.S.
embassies in Baghdad, Beirut, and Djibouti, as well as the U.S. Liaison
Office in Mogadishu, Somalia.  In Washington, he was a Watch Officer in
the Department of State’s Operations Center and the Desk Officer for
Algeria in the Bureau of Near Eastern Affairs.  A native of New York,
Ambassador Vrooman graduated from Harvard College with a B.A. in Social
Studies and earned an M.S. in National Resource Strategy from the
National Defense University’s Industrial College of the Armed Forces,
now known as the Eisenhower School for National Security and Resource
Strategy.  Prior to joining the Foreign Service, he worked as the
special assistant to the President of the American University in Cairo. 

\###
