---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-07-01'
modified_time: 2021-07-19 12:49:56-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/07/01/statement-by-president-joseph-biden-on-the-women-peace-and-security-report/
published_time: 2021-07-01 09:25:07-04:00
title: "Statement by President Joseph Biden on the Women, Peace, and Security\_Report"
---
 
June 29, 2021

My Administration is committed to a simple but profoundly meaningful
proposition—all people, everywhere, are entitled to be treated with
inherent human dignity. Yet, in far too many places, women and girls are
denied their basic rights, cut off from opportunity, subjected to
violence and abuse, or prevented from pursuing their dreams and
ambitions. And, in conflicts around the world, rape and sexual violence
are used systematically to terrorize civilians—not as incidental to
conflict but as a weapon of war itself. It’s an atrocity, meant to
destabilize nations and dehumanize communities, and it is intolerable.

I learned from my father that the cardinal sin was the abuse of power.
That’s a major reason why fighting to eliminate all forms of
gender-based violence in the United States and around the world has been
a central part of my life’s work. Under my Administration, we will
harness our full toolset to prevent and respond to gender-based violence
wherever it occurs, including in areas of conflict. There is no
justification or excuse. It’s just wrong. And advancing the rights of
women and girls starts by ensuring their safety.

Beyond the moral imperative to advance gender equity and gender equality
around the world; beyond principles of justice and fairness; beyond
clear notions of right and wrong, it’s just basic math. No community,
economy, or undertaking can reach its potential if women are denied the
ability to fully participate in their societies—to contribute their
ideas and energies. No nation will be able to keep up with the speed and
scale of today’s challenges if half of its talent and brain power is
left behind.  
  
We know that everyone in a society does better when everyone
participates. Economies grow. Poverty shrinks. Education rates and
health outcomes improve. Political instability and extremism decline.
When women are engaged fully in building and maintaining peace and
security in their countries, we see more sustainable and more equitable
outcomes, less conflict, and longer-lasting peace agreements. If we hope
to succeed in building peace and prosperity and delivering real
progress, women must be engaged at every step. That’s why, during the
Obama-Biden Administration, we developed the first comprehensive
National Action Plan on Women, Peace, and Security (WPS) in American
history. And in 2017, the United States passed bipartisan legislation to
translate those commitments into law.

This report takes stock of the progress we have made over the past few
years in implementing that law, and points the way forward across four
agencies of the United States Federal Government—the Department of
State, the Department of Defense, the Department of Homeland Security,
and the United States Agency for International Development (USAID)—as we
continue to advance the Women, Peace, and Security agenda globally. It
evaluates four lines of effort, including meaningful participation in
decision-making processes related to conflict and crises, protection,
internal U.S. capabilities, and partner support.

While we have made important strides, during the COVID-19 pandemic, we
have unfortunately also seen too many examples where we are moving in
the wrong direction. We have been reminded how fragile our progress can
be and how quickly the potential of women and girls can be lost. The
pandemic has exposed so many of the inequities in our world—hitting the
most vulnerable the hardest, exacerbating challenges that impact the
most marginalized in our societies—and as we rebuild, we cannot be
content to just get back to where we were. We have to seize this moment
to fundamentally change our approach.

While this
[report](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/07/USG_Women_Peace_Security_WPS_Congressional_Report_FINAL6.30.2021-Updated-July-16.pdf)
focuses on the Departments of State, Defense, and Homeland Security and
USAID, I have instructed departments and agencies across the Federal
Government to prioritize gender equity and equality. The persistent
unequal treatment of women around the world— particularly women of
color, LGBTQI+ women, and other women who face overlapping forms of
discrimination—remains a critical, unfinished project of our time. I am
committed to making the promotion of human rights for all people a core
pillar of our foreign policy. Our goal is a world where every individual
has the tools and the opportunity they need to thrive, where everyone
can pursue their unique purpose free from the fear of violence.
Empowering women globally—ensuring their inclusion in decision making
and leadership positions—is essential to achieving that goal.

To view the report, visit:
<https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/07/USG_Women_Peace_Security_WPS_Congressional_Report_FINAL6.30.2021-Updated-July-16.pdf>

\###
