---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-07-21'
modified_time: 2021-07-21 16:16:42-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/07/21/president-biden-announces-four-key-foreign-policy-nominations/
published_time: 2021-07-21 16:16:41-04:00
title: "President\_Biden Announces Four Key Foreign Policy\_Nominations"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Joe Biden announced his intent to nominate
the following four individuals to serve in key roles promoting U.S.
foreign policy:

-   John R. Bass, Nominee for Under Secretary of State (Management)
-   David L. Cohen, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
    Plenipotentiary to Canada
-   Jamie L. Harpootlian, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
    Plenipotentiary to the Republic of Slovenia
-   Victoria Reggie Kennedy, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
    Plenipotentiary to the Republic of Austria

**<u>John R. Bass, Nominee for Under Secretary of State for
Management</u>**

John R. Bass, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of
Career Minister, currently is a Senior Advisor at the Department of
State’s Foreign Service Institute. He has served as Ambassador to the
Islamic Republic of Afghanistan, Ambassador to the Republic of Turkey,
and Ambassador to the Republic of Georgia.  Previously, Bass focused,
among other things, on supporting U.S. government efforts to mobilize
allies and marshal resources to combat terrorism and instability in
Iraq, Syria and Southwest Asia.  He served at seven U.S. Missions
overseas including as Team Leader of Provincial Reconstruction Team –
Baghdad at the American Embassy in Baghdad, Iraq.  In addition, he was
the Executive Secretary of the State Department and held other senior
leadership positions at the Department of State.  Bass earned an A.B.
Cum Laude from Syracuse University. 

**<u>David L. Cohen, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
Plenipotentiary to Canada</u>**

David L. Cohen is Senior Advisor to the CEO at Comcast Corporation,
having previously served as Senior Executive Vice President where he led
a broad portfolio of responsibilities, including corporate
communications, legal affairs, government and regulatory affairs, public
affairs, corporate administration, corporate real estate and security,
and community impact.  Cohen also served as the company’s first Chief
Diversity Officer.  Before coming to Comcast, Cohen served as a partner
in and Chairman of Ballard Spahr Andrews & Ingersoll, LLP.  Before that,
Cohen served as Chief of Staff to the Honorable Edward G. Rendell, the
Mayor of the City of Philadelphia.  Cohen serves on many nonprofit
boards, including as a member of the Trustee Board and the Executive
Committee of Penn Medicine, the Board of Directors and the Executive
Committee of the Greater Philadelphia Chamber of Commerce, and the
national board of the National Urban League. Additionally, he is Chair
of the national board of City Year and its Executive Committee.  Cohen
has received numerous awards for his civic and charitable activities. 
He was awarded Honorary Doctor of Laws degrees from Drexel University.
Rider University, Rowan University, and Rohrer College of Business. 
Cohen graduated from Swarthmore College with a BA and with a JD from the
University of Pennsylvania Law School summa cum laude.

**<u>Jamie L. Harpootlian, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
Plenipotentiary to the Republic of Slovenia</u>**

Jamie Harpootlian, an accomplished attorney, is currently counsel to the
law firm of Richard A. Harpootlian, P.A., where she advises on a broad
range of federal litigation matters. Previously, Harpootlian served as a
court-appointed Special Master to facilitate case resolution in complex,
mass disaster class actions. The Department of Justice, Civil Division
appointed Harpootlian to serve as a Hearing Officer on the 9/11 Victim
Compensation Fund of 2001 on behalf of the Special Master Kenneth
Feinberg. Prior to her appointments, Harpootlian served 17 years as a
career judicial law clerk in the United States District Court for the
Eastern District of Louisiana, New Orleans, where she provided legal
advice to the Court to assist in making decisions in civil and criminal
actions. Harpootlian also is a leader and patron of non-profit groups
supporting the environment, the arts, and historic resources. 
Harpootlian earned a B.A. in Political Science and Art History from Mary
Baldwin University, Staunton, Virginia in 1981 and a J.D. from Tulane
University Law School, New Orleans, Louisiana in 1984.

**<u>Victoria Reggie Kennedy, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
Plenipotentiary to the Republic of Austria</u>**

Victoria Reggie Kennedy is Senior Counsel in the corporate and
securities practice group at Greenberg Traurig LLP, in Boston,
Massachusetts and Washington, D.C.  She also is the president of the
board and co-founder of the Edward M. Kennedy Institute for the United
States Senate, a non-partisan non-profit that educates the public about
the U.S. Senate, and inspires leadership and active citizenship.   She
earned a B.A., magna cum laude, Phi Beta Kappa, at Newcomb College and a
J.D., summa cum laude, from Tulane University School of Law, and then
clerked for Hon. Robert A. Sprecher, U.S. Court of Appeals for the
Seventh Circuit in Chicago.  She is the recipient of eight honorary
degrees and numerous civic awards, including the Boston Business Journal
Power 50 List, the Ellis Island Medal of Honor and the Greater Boston
Chamber of Commerce Pinnacle Award for Lifetime Achievement.  She chairs
the Education Committee of the Board of Trustees of the John F. Kennedy
Center for the Performing Arts in Washington, D.C. and is on the Board
of other non-profit and civic organizations. An advocate for gun safety,
Kennedy was a long-time member of the Board of Trustees of the Brady
Center to Prevent Gun Violence in Washington, D.C., and has served on
the board of Stop Handgun Violence in Boston.  She founded an advocacy
group, Common Sense about Kids and Guns, aimed at reducing guns deaths
and injuries to children.

\###
