---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-07-08'
modified_time: 2021-07-08 16:43:56-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/07/08/fact-sheet-bipartisan-infrastructure-framework-creates-economic-opportunities-for-rural-america/
published_time: 2021-07-08 16:43:55-04:00
title: 'FACT SHEET: Bipartisan Infrastructure Framework Creates Economic Opportunities
  for Rural America'
---
 
Today, despite the fact that rural and Tribal communities across the
country are asset-rich, they make up a disproportionate number of
persistent poverty communities. The Bipartisan Infrastructure Framework
invests in rural and Tribal communities, creating jobs in rural America
and wealth that stays in rural America. The Framework delivers 100%
broadband coverage, rebuilds crumbling infrastructure like roads and
bridges, eliminates lead pipes and service lines, builds resilience to
climate change and extreme weather events, and puts Americans to work
cleaning up pollution that has impacted fossil fuel communities in rural
America. 

In addition to being the largest-long term investment in our
infrastructure in nearly a century – four times the infrastructure
investment in the 2009 Recovery Act – the Bipartisan Infrastructure
Framework is a generational investment in rural America.

Investments in the Bipartisan Infrastructure Framework to strengthen and
create jobs in rural communities include:

**Provide high speed internet to every home.** More than 35 percent of
rural Americans and Tribal communities lack wired access to broadband at
acceptable speeds. The Bipartisan Infrastructure Frameworkinvests $65
billion, including through USDA rural broadband programs, to make
high-speed internet available to all Americans, bring down high-speed
internet prices across the board, and provide technical assistance to
communities seeking to expand broadband. With the 1936 Rural
Electrification Act, the Federal government made a historic investment
in bringing electricity to nearly every home and farm in America, and
millions of families and our economy reaped the benefits. Broadband
internet is the new electricity. It is necessary for Americans to do
their jobs, to accelerate precision agriculture, to participate equally
in school learning and health care, and to stay connected.  
  
**Ensure clean drinking water in every home.** Across the country,
including in rural and Tribal communities, pipes and treatment plants
are aging and polluted drinking water endanger public health. The
Bipartisan Infrastructure Framework invests $55 billion in clean
drinking water. It will replace 100 percent of the nation’s lead pipes
and service lines, benefiting up to 10 million American households and
400,000 schools and child care centers. The Framework invests in water
infrastructure across America, including in Tribal Nations and
disadvantaged communities that need it most.

**Fix Rural Roads and Bridges.** As part of a $110 billion investment to
repair America’s crumbling infrastructure, the Bipartisan Infrastructure
Framework invests in fixing 10,000 off-system bridges, many in rural
areas, that provide critical linkages for communities to economic
opportunity.

**Build Drought, Fire and Flood Resilience.** Last year, the United
States faced 22 extreme weather and climate-related disaster events with
losses over $1 billion – a cumulative price tag of nearly $100 billion.
These included damaging floods, fires, and wind storms across rural
America. The Bipartisan Infrastructure Framework invests $52 billion to
help communities build resilience to wildfires and floods through
investments in forest management and upgrades to critical infrastructure
— such as elevating buildings, roads, and bridges, hardening physical
infrastructure, and winterizing the power grid. And, it will fund state
and local infrastructure improvements and emergency response strategies,
such as planning grants to support the development of evacuation routes
or upgrades community shelters.

The Framework also helps Western farmers, ranchers, Tribes, families,
and communities better prepare for future droughts. It invests in
ecosystem restoration, such as the restoration of wetlands that can
reduce flood risk for communities. 

**Plug Orphan Wells, Clean Up Abandoned Mines, and Remediate Idle Rural
Property.** In rural and Tribal communities around the country, former
industrial and energy sites are now idle and sources of blight and
pollution. The Bipartisan Infrastructure Framework provides the full
American Jobs Plan funding level — $21 billion – to create good-paying
union jobs plugging orphan oil and gas wells, cleaning up abandoned
mines, and remediating Brownfield and Superfund sites in rural areas and
on Tribal lands. The Bipartisan Infrastructure Framework will create
jobs and build wealth in communities across the country that powered our
economic growth for decades and have been affected most by the impacts
of climate change and pollution, including rural communities and
communities of color. 

**Connect Rural Communities Through Rail.** U.S. passenger rail lags
behind the rest of the world in reliability, speed, and coverage. China
already has 22,000 miles of high-speed rail, and is planning to double
that by 2035. The lack of rail options affects rural communities in
particular. This the largest investment in passenger rail since the
creation of Amtrak 50 years ago. The Framework invests $66 billion in
passenger and freight rail, including to bring world-class rail service
to areas outside the northeast and mid-Atlantic.

**Build and Upgrade Airports, Ports, and Waterways in Rural America.**
While the United States pioneered the modern aviation industry, today,
U.S. airports lag far behind and many rural airports need repair.  Only
9 percent of roads outside ports are in good or very good condition and
the American Society of Civil Engineers gives America’s Inland Waterways
infrastructure a D+. The Bipartisan Infrastructure Framework meets this
challenge by investing $16.3 billion in port infrastructure and $25
billion in airports to address repair and maintenance backlogs, reduce
congestion and emissions near ports and airports, and drive
electrification and other low-carbon technologies. Modern, resilient,
and sustainable port, airport, and freight infrastructure will help
American farmers and ranchers sell their goods around the nation and
world by removing bottlenecks and expediting commerce and reduce the
environmental impact on neighboring communities.

**Build Electric Transmission Infrastructure in Rural America.** Power
outages cost the U.S. economy up to $70 billion annually. For example,
the recent Texas power outages caused estimated losses of up to $90
billion for the state. At times, rural communities can be without power
for days during these outages. The Bipartisan Infrastructure Framework
meets this challenge by making the single largest investment in
transmission in American history.  It creates a Grid Development
Authority at the Department of Energy to enable a national, clean energy
power grid and funds to support activities that reduce the impacts to
the electric grid and communities from extreme weather, wildfire, and
natural disasters. It deploys long distance, high voltage transmission
to enhance reliability and resilience, lower costs, and integrate the
highest value clean energy resources. It invests in research and
development for advanced transmission and electricity distribution
technologies, and smart grid technologies that deliver flexibility and
resilience. And, it invests more than $22 billion in demonstration
projects and research hubs for next generation technologies like
advanced nuclear reactors, carbon capture for industrial plants, and
green hydrogen.

\###
