---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-07-15'
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/07/15/fact-sheet-u-s-germany-climate-and-energy-partnership/
published_time: 2021-07-15 18:11:06-04:00
title: "FACT SHEET: U.S.-Germany Climate and Energy\_Partnership"
---
 
President Biden and Chancellor Merkel today at the White House launched
the U.S.-Germany Climate and Energy Partnership. As part of our ongoing
work together on addressing the threat of climate change, this
Partnership will strengthen climate ambition and deepen our
collaboration on the policies and sustainable technologies needed to
accelerate the global net-zero future. Both countries are committed to
achieving the goals of the Paris Agreement and taking decisive action
this decade to keep a 1.5-degree Celsius temperature limit within reach.
We share the goals of leading the world to develop the innovative tools
urgently needed to accelerate global climate action and achieve net-zero
greenhouse gas emissions in their economies by 2050 at the latest. The
United States and Germany will invest in a sustainable economy that
drives inclusive growth, supports communities, and creates good jobs and
a healthy environment on both sides of the Atlantic and beyond.  
  
The Climate and Energy Partnership will be co-chaired from the U.S. side
by the Special Presidential Envoy for Climate and the Secretary of
Energy, and from the German side by the Minister for Economic Affairs
and Energy and the Minister for the Environment, Nature Conservation and
Nuclear Safety, with participation from the U.S. Department of State,
Germany’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and other agencies or ministries
as appropriate.   
  
The United States and Germany intend the Partnership to include three
key areas of cooperation:   
  
**Climate Action: The United States and Germany will push to raise
global climate ambition and work bilaterally and multilaterally to
accelerate reaching a net-zero future.** We will develop actionable
roadmaps and policies for near-term and long-term reduction of emissions
to keep a 1.5-degree Celsius limit in sight; coordinate on climate and
trade agendas; mobilize finance for sustainable development; advance
sectoral decarbonization and address short-lived climate pollutants; and
coordinate on common interests in multilateral fora including the
Conference of the Parties of the UN Framework Convention on Climate
Change, and the climate tracks in the G20, and G7.  
  
**Transformational Energy Technologies: The United States and Germany
will collaborate on developing and deploying critical energy
technologies. ** We will advance renewable energy technologies and grid
integration of variable renewable energy including through energy
storage; collaborate on sustainable hydrogen technologies; cooperate on
efficiency measures across the building and industrial sectors; increase
the adoption of electric vehicles; promote technology commercialization
from research institutions to industry; advance reliable and resilient
energy systems and supply chains; cooperate on advanced sustainable
energy systems while promoting inclusivity, supporting communities, and
strengthening the workforce; and coordinate in multilateral energy fora
including the energy tracks in the G20 and G7, Mission Innovation, Clean
Energy Ministerial, International Energy Agency, and IRENA.  
  
**Energy Transitions in Emerging Economies: The United States and
Germany will collaborate to accelerate sustainable energy in emerging
economies critical to tackling the climate crisis and preventing the use
of energy as a coercive tool. ** We will mobilize investment in Central
and Eastern Europe, including by supporting Ukraine’s energy
transformation, energy efficiency, and energy security; mobilize
investment in sustainable energy in major and growing emitters around
the world such as those in South and Southeast Asia; develop energy
policy and regulations for increased adoption of renewables and
sustainable fuel alternatives like sustainable hydrogen; and pursue
technology and technical assistance collaboration with major emerging
economies to speed decisive action to curb emissions this decade and
enable swift net-zero transitions.

\###
