---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-07-02'
modified_time: 2021-07-02 11:08:24-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/07/02/statement-of-president-joe-biden-on-the-results-of-the-independent-review-commission-on-military-sexual-assault/
published_time: 2021-07-02 11:08:23-04:00
title: "Statement of President Joe\_Biden on the Results of the Independent Review\
  \ Commission on Military Sexual\_Assault"
---
 
I strongly support Secretary Austin’s announcement that he is accepting
the core recommendations put forward by the Independent Review
Commission on Military Sexual Assault (IRC), including removing the
investigation and prosecution of sexual assault from the chain of
command and creating highly specialized units to handle these cases and
related crimes. Ending violence against women and eliminating sexual
assault against any person in our country has been a priority for me
throughout my career in public service. Sexual assault is an abuse of
power and an affront to our shared humanity. And sexual assault in the
military is doubly damaging because it also shreds the unity and
cohesion that is essential to the functioning of the U.S. military and
to our national defense.  
  
Yet, for as long as we have abhorred this scourge, the statistics and
the stories have grown worse. We need concrete actions that
fundamentally change the way we handle military sexual assault and that
make it clear that these crimes will not be minimized or dismissed. They
will be prosecuted under the Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ) to
their fullest extent. We will also prioritize effective prevention
strategies; promote safe, healthy, and respectful climates; and improve
services to address the trauma that sexual assault victims experience
and to facilitate their healing and recovery.   
  
I want to thank Lynn Rosenthal for her leadership of the IRC and her
decades of dedicated work to end sexual assault and gender-based
violence. To everyone who served on the IRC, thank you for your tireless
work to deliver thoughtful, effective, actionable recommendations for
how we can drive sexual assault and harassment from the ranks of the
United States military.  
  
I also want to recognize the determined leadership within Congress over
the years—in particular of Senator Gillibrand, Senator Ernst,
Representative Speier, and Representative Mullin, who have worked in a
strong bipartisan way to support needed change and to keep this issue at
the forefront of our agenda. I look forward to working with Congress to
implement these necessary reforms and promote a work environment that is
free from sexual assault and harassment for every one of our brave
service members.  
  
Finally, I want to recognize the experience of our service members who
have survived sexual assault and the bravery of those who have shared
their stories with the world and advocated for reform. This kind of
violation and trauma should never occur. You have a right to be heard.
You have a right to justice. And for all those in the ranks who have
suffered an assault and its after effects in silence, whether because
you felt that you would not receive the support you deserve, or because
you feared the repercussions for yourself and your career—I hope this
announcement offers some reassurance that the Department of Defense
leadership stands with you, starting with your Commander in Chief.  
  
I also want to honor the pain of those families whose loved one did not
survive an assault or the struggle with PTSD that so often follows in
the wake of sexual assault. The hurt of that loss is unimaginable.  
  
Today’s announcement is the beginning, not the end of our work. This
will be among the most significant reforms to our military undertaken in
recent history, and I’m committed to delivering results. Keeping our
country safe has to start with prioritizing the safety of those who
proudly sign up to serve our country. And today’s announcement
represents an important and overdue step in the right direction.

\###
