---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-07-30'
modified_time: 2021-07-30 14:10:09-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/07/30/president-biden-announces-intent-to-nominate-and-appoint-leaders-to-serve-in-key-religious-affairs-roles/
published_time: 2021-07-30 14:10:07-04:00
title: "President\_Biden Announces Intent to Nominate and Appoint Leaders to Serve\
  \ in Key Religious Affairs\_Roles"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Biden announced his intent to nominate and
appoint individuals to serve in key roles at the U.S. Department of
State and the U.S. Commission on International Religious Freedom:

-   Rashad Hussain, Nominee for Ambassador-at-Large for International
    Religious Freedom
-   Deborah Lipstadt, Nominee for Special Envoy to Monitor and Combat
    Anti-Semitism with the Rank of Ambassador
-   Khizr Khan, Appointee for Commissioner of the United States
    Commission on International Religious Freedom
-   Sharon Kleinbaum, Appointee for Commissioner of the United States
    Commission on International Religious Freedom

Today’s announcement underscores the President’s commitment to build an
Administration that looks like America and reflects people of all
faiths. Hussain is the first Muslim to be nominated to serve as the
Ambassador-at-Large for International Religious Freedom, and Lipstadt is
a renowned scholar of the Holocaust and antisemitism.

**<u>Rashad Hussain, Nominee for Ambassador-at-Large for International
Religious Freedom</u>**

Rashad Hussain is Director for Partnerships and Global Engagement at the
National Security Council. He previously served as Senior Counsel at the
Department of Justice’s National Security Division. During the Obama
Administration, Rashad served as U.S. Special Envoy to the Organization
of Islamic Cooperation (OIC), U.S. Special Envoy for Strategic
Counterterrorism Communications, and Deputy Associate White House
Counsel. In his roles as Envoy, Hussain worked with multilateral
organizations such as the OIC and UN, foreign governments, and civil
society organizations to expand partnerships in education,
entrepreneurship, health, international security, science and
technology, and other areas. Rashad also spearheaded efforts on
countering antisemitism and protecting religious minorities in
Muslim-majority countries. Prior to joining the Obama Administration,
Rashad worked on the House Judiciary Committee, served as a judicial law
clerk to the Hon. Damon Keith on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Sixth
Circuit, and was an Associate Counsel to the Obama-Biden Transition
Project. Rashad received his J.D. from Yale Law School, where he served
as an editor of the Yale Law Journal, and Master’s degrees in Public
Administration (Kennedy School of Government) and Arabic and Islamic
Studies from Harvard University. He has also taught as Adjunct Professor
of Law at Georgetown Law Center and the Georgetown School of Foreign
Service. He speaks Urdu, Arabic, and Spanish.

**<u>Deborah Lipstadt, Nominee for Special Envoy to Monitor and Combat
Anti-Semitism with the Rank of Ambassador</u>**

Deborah E. Lipstadt is Dorot Professor of Modern Jewish History and
Holocaust Studies at Emory University, where she was the founding
director of the Institute for Jewish Studies. She is the author
of *Beyond Belief: the American Press* *and the Coming of the Holocaust
1933-1945*; *History on Trial: My Day in Court with a Holocaust
Denier*; *The Eichmann Trial*; *Holocaust: An American
Understanding *and *Antisemitism: Here and Now*. After the British
writer and Holocaust denier David Irving sued her for libel, a ten-week
trial in London in 2000 resulted in an overwhelming victory for
Lipstadt. Lipstadt is currently on the Boards of the Jewish Forward
Advisory Committee and the American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee
and serves as a judge for the Rohr Prize in Jewish Literature. She has
also served in several roles at the United States Holocaust Memorial
Museum, including twice as a Presidential Appointee to the Museum’s
Council, and was asked by President George W. Bush to represent the
White House at the 60th anniversary of the liberation of
Auschwitz. Lipstadt was previously a member of the U.S. Department of
State’s Advisory Committee on Religious Persecution Abroad and was a
Board Member of Hillel International, The Defiant Requiem, and The
Covenant Foundation. She has received numerous awards for her research
and writing and is the recipient of nine honorary degrees.
Lipstadt received a B.A. from City College in New York and an M.A. and
Ph.D. from Brandeis University. She is fluent in Hebrew.

**<u>Khizr Khan, Appointee for Commissioner of the United States
Commission on International Religious Freedom</u>**

Khizr Khan, founder of the Constitution Literacy and National Unity
Project, is an advocate for religious freedom as a core element of human
dignity. After immigrating to the United States in 1980, he attended
Harvard Law School and obtained his LL.M degree. He is licensed to
practice law before the Supreme Court of the United States, various
Federal District Courts, and Washington, DC and New York State courts.
In his law practice, he devotes a substantial amount of his time to
providing legal services to veterans, men and women serving in uniform,
and their families.

Khizr Khan is a Gold Star parent of U.S. Army Captain Humayun Khan.
Capt. Humayun Khan was a University of Virginia graduate who was killed
while serving in Iraq as he stopped an attack on his camp and saved the
lives of scores of U.S. soldiers and Iraqi civilians. He was
posthumously awarded the Purple Heart and Bronze Star with Valor. He was
buried in Arlington National Cemetery Section 60 with full military
honors.

Khizr Khan lives in Charlottesville, Virginia. He is author of three
books, including *An American Family-A Memoir of Hope and Sacrifice*,
*Founding Documents of the United States of America*, and *This is Our
Constitution*.

**<u>Sharon Kleinbaum, Appointee for Commissioner of the United States
Commission on International Religious Freedom</u>**

Rabbi Sharon Kleinbaum serves as spiritual leader of Congregation Beit
Simchat Torah (CBST) in New York City. She was installed as CBST’s first
rabbi in 1992, arriving at the height of the AIDS crisis when the
synagogue was in desperate need of pastoral care and spiritual
leadership. She guided the congregation through a period of loss and
change, while addressing social issues and building a strong and deeply
spiritual community. Under her leadership as Senior Rabbi, CBST has
become a powerful voice in the movement for equality and justice for
people of all sexual orientations, gender identities, and expressions.
Rabbi Kleinbaum has long been involved in the fight for human rights,
including religious freedom. She previously served on the U.S.
Commission on International Religious Freedom in 2020. For many years
Rabbi Kleinbaum has been ranked by *Newsweek* among the 50 most
influential rabbis in America. Rabbi Kleinbaum is also a Commissioner on
New York City’s Commission on Human Rights, serves on Mayor de Blasio’s
Faith Based Advisory Council, and serves on the boards of the New York
Jewish Agenda and the New Israel Fund.

Sharon Kleinbaum’s longtime leadership of Congregation Beth Simchat
Torah and her outspoken activism have made her a powerful voice for
religious freedom, LGBTQ rights and other human rights in America and
around the world.

\###
