---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-07-02'
modified_time: 2021-07-06 08:33:54-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/07/02/president-biden-announces-seven-key-nominations-3/
published_time: 2021-07-02 16:20:18-04:00
title: "President\_Biden Announces Seven Key\_Nominations"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Joe Biden announced his intent to nominate
the following seven individuals to serve in key roles:

-   Rachel Jacobson, Nominee for Assistant Secretary of the Army for
    Installations and Environment, Department of Defense
-   Jose Javier Rodriguez, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for
    Employment and Training, Department of Labor
-   Mallory Stewart, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for Arms Control,
    Verification and Compliance, Department of State
-   Chantale Wong, Nominee for United States Director of the Asian
    Development Bank, with the rank of Ambassador
-   Amy Gutmann, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
    Plenipotentiary to the Federal Republic of Germany
-   Jeffrey M. Hovenier, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
    Plenipotentiary to the Republic of Kosovo
-   Virginia E. Palmer, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
    Plenipotentiary to the Republic of Ghana

**<u>Rachel Jacobson, Nominee for Assistant Secretary of the Army for
Installations and Environment, Department of Defense</u>**

Rachel Jacobson is an attorney who served at the Department of Defense
during the Obama-Biden Administration as the Deputy General Counsel for
Environment, Energy and Installations.  Prior to joining DoD, Jacobson
served for five years as an appointee at the Department of the Interior,
as Principal Deputy Solicitor and acting Assistant Secretary for Fish
and Wildlife and Parks.  

Jacobson, who ran a conservation program at the National Fish and
Wildlife Foundation before joining the Obama-Biden Administration, is
currently in private practice in the Energy, Environment and Natural
Resources group of the law firm WilmerHale in Washington, D.C.  Jacobson
spent the majority of her career at the U.S. Department of Justice in
the Environment and Natural Resources Division. A member of the American
College of Environmental Lawyers, Jacobson received an undergraduate
degree in economics from Washington University in St. Louis, and a law
degree from Boston University School of Law.  A native of Chicago,
Jacobson resides in Washington, D.C.

**<u>Jose Javier Rodriguez, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for
Employment and Training, Department of Labor</u>**

Jose Javier Rodriguez is a litigator and partner at Sugarman & Susskind,
PA in Miami, Florida, representing employees and labor unions as well as
pension and benefit funds in a diverse litigation practice. Rodríguez
has served on the faculty of South Florida law schools as adjunct
professor and adjunct clinical professor.

Rodriguez served for eight years in the Florida Legislature after being
elected in 2012 to represent District 112 in the Florida House of
Representatives and in 2016 to represent District 37 in the Florida
Senate. He has received numerous awards and recognitions for his work as
a community leader and as policymaker, particularly in the areas of
employment and the environment. Rodriguez served as vice-chair of the
Senate’s Judiciary Committee while in the Florida Senate.

Raised in Miami, Rodriguez’s father left Cuba at the age of 15 through
Operation Pedro Pan. Rodriguez served as a Peace Corps Volunteer in
Senegal after earning a B.A. from Brown University and prior to earning
a J.D. from Harvard Law School and returning to Florida to begin his
legal career at Florida Legal Services. Along with his wife Sonia and
two young sons,  Rodriguez lives in Miami.

**<u>Mallory Stewart, Nominee for Assistant Secretary of State (Arms
Control, Verification and Compliance)</u>**

Mallory Stewart currently serves as a Special Assistant to the President
and Senior Director for Arms Control, Disarmament, and Nonproliferation
on the National Security Council. Previously, Ms. Stewart was Senior
Manager for Global Nuclear Security and Nonproliferation as Sandia
National Laboratories.  She also has served as a Nonresident Fellow in
the WMD, Nonproliferation and Security Program at the Stimson Center, as
an Adjunct Professor at Georgetown University’s Center for Security
Studies and as a Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for Emerging
Security Challenges and Defense Policy in the Bureau of Arms Control,
Verification and Compliance. She worked in the State Department Legal
Advisor’s Office on arms control issues and, among other roles, served
as the lead lawyer and one of the primary architects of the U.S.-Russia
Framework to eliminate Syria’s declared chemical weapons stockpile.

Ms. Stewart earned an A.B degree from Harvard College and her J.D.
degree from Stanford Law School.  She has written extensively on issues
related to arms control and verification and was the recipient of the
Secretary of State’s Award for Excellence in International Security
Affairs among other honors.

**<u>Chantale Wong, Nominee for United States Director of the Asian
Development Bank, with the rank of Ambassador</u>**

Chantale Yokmin Wong is a leading authority in international development
policy with over 30 years of experience in the multi-disciplinary field
that includes finance, technology, and the environment.  She has been
recognized throughout her career for transforming critical processes
affecting the whole of government.  Chantale was appointed by President
Obama to serve as Vice President for Administration and Finance and
Chief Financial Officer at the Millennium Challenge Corporation where
she led change in financial, human capital, and information technology
management.  She was appointed by President Bill Clinton to the Board of
Directors at the Asian Development Bank, representing the United States
as the Alternate Executive Director, and overseeing policies and
operations.  She has held senior career appointments in the Office of
Management and Budget, Treasury, NASA, and the Environmental Protection
Agency. 

Among her personal passions are photography and videography, with which
she has chronicled the annual Congressional Civil Rights pilgrimages in
Alabama with the late Congressman John Lewis.  In Asian American and
Pacific Islander community, Chantale is known for establishing the
Conference on APA Leadership, where she has guided young AAPIs for 32
years to seek careers in public service.  She holds a Master’s in Public
Administration from Harvard University’s Kennedy School of Government,
and a Master’s in Environmental Engineering from the University of
California, Berkeley.  Her undergraduate degree is in Civil and
Structural Engineering from the University of Hawaii.

**<u>Amy Gutmann, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
Plenipotentiary to the Federal Republic of Germany</u>**

Amy Gutmann is the eighth President of the University of Pennsylvania,
serving since 2004.  She is also the Christopher H. Browne Distinguished
Professor of Political Science, and a Professor of Communication at the
Annenberg School for Communication.  Her focus on global engagement
fueled the creation of Penn’s Perry World House on campus, Penn Wharton
China Center in Beijing, and the Penn Biden Center for Diplomacy and
Global Engagement in Washington, D.C.  Previously, at Princeton
University, Gutmann was Provost, Dean of the Faculty, Founding Director
of The University Center for Human Values, Laurance S. Rockefeller
University Professor of Politics, and Director of the Program in Ethics
and Public Affairs.  She also worked at Harvard’s Kennedy School of
Government and at the University of Maryland.  Gutmann is an
award-winning author and editor of 17 books, many centered on
understanding and defending constitutional democracy and human rights.
The daughter of a German Jewish refugee, and first in her family to
graduate college, she earned a B.A. at Harvard-Radcliffe College, an
M.S. at the London School of Economics, and a Ph.D. at Harvard.  She was
named by Fortune in 2018 as one of the “World’s 50 Greatest Leaders.”

**<u>Jeffrey M. Hovenier, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
Plenipotentiary to the Republic of Kosovo</u>**

Jeffrey M. Hovenier, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service with
the rank of Minister Counselor, currently serves as Deputy Chief of
Mission at the U.S. Embassy in Ankara, Turkey, where he served as Chargé
d’Affaires a.i. from August 2018 through July 2019.  Prior to that, he
was Acting Deputy Chief of Mission and Minister Counselor for Political
Affairs at the U.S. Embassy in Berlin, Germany.  He also served at U.S.
missions in Croatia, Greece, Panama, Paraguay, and Peru; at the
Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE); and on the
staff of the UN Special Envoy for Kosovo Status.  His Washington
assignments include service as Director for Central and Southeastern
European Affairs at the National Security Council and in the State
Department’s Bureau of European and Eurasian Affairs with responsibility
for NATO and Central European Affairs.  He has a Master’s degree from
Georgetown University and a Bachelor’s degree from Brigham Young
University.  He speaks German, Greek, Croatian, and Spanish. 

**<u>Virginia E. Palmer, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
Plenipotentiary to the Republic of Ghana</u>**

Virginia E. Palmer, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service with
the rank of Minister Counselor, is Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary
for the State Department’s Bureau of Energy Resources.  She has served
as Acting Assistant Secretary since January 20, 2021, overseeing U.S.
foreign policy engagement at the critical intersection of our energy,
climate and national security goals.  Before assuming her current
position, Palmer was the Deputy Commandant and International Affairs
Advisor at the Dwight D. Eisenhower School for National Security and
Resource Strategy at the National Defense University.  She served as
U.S. Ambassador to the Republic of Malawi from 2015 until 2019.  Prior
to that, she was Deputy Chief of Mission and Chargé d’Affaires a.i., at
the U.S. Embassy in South Africa;  Deputy Chief of Mission and Chargé
d’Affaires a.i. at the U.S. Embassy in Vietnam; the State Department’s
Deputy Coordinator for Counterterrorism; and Director of the Bureau of
East A’s Office of Economic Policy and the alternate U.S. Senior
Official for the Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation forum (APEC).  Other
postings include assignments in Canada, Zimbabwe, the People’s Republic
of China, Hong Kong, and Kenya.  Palmer obtained her M.A. from the
University of Virginia and a BSFS from Georgetown University.  She also
attended Washington University in St. Louis.  She speaks Chinese and
French.

\###
