---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-07-28'
modified_time: 2021-07-28 16:14:35-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/07/28/president-biden-announced-three-key-nominations/
published_time: 2021-07-28 16:14:34-04:00
title: "President\_Biden Announced Three Key\_Nominations"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Joe Biden announced his intent to nominate
the following three individuals to serve in key roles:

-   Jainey Bavishi, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for Oceans and
    Atmosphere, Department of Commerce
-   Chavonda Jacobs-Young, Nominee for Under Secretary for Research,
    Education, and Economics, Department of Agriculture
-   Thea Kendler, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for Export
    Administration, Department of Commerce

**<u>Jainey Bavishi, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for Oceans and
Atmosphere, Department of Commerce</u>**

Jainey K. Bavishi serves as the Director of the New York City Mayor’s
Office of Climate Resiliency.  In this role, she leads a
cross-disciplinary team that prepares the city for the impacts of
climate change through science-based analysis, policy, program, and
project development, and capacity building. During the Obama
Administration, Bavishi served as the Associate Director for Climate
Preparedness at the White House Council on Environmental Quality and
Director of External Affairs and Senior Policy Advisor at the National
Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA).  Bavishi also served as
the Executive Director of R3ADY Asia-Pacific, focused on enhancing
disaster risk reduction and resilience in the Asia-Pacific region, based
in Honolulu, Hawaii. 

Previously, she was the Founding Director of the Equity and Inclusion
Campaign, a coalition of community-based leaders in the Gulf Coast
region that focused on recovery from Hurricanes Katrina, Rita, Gustav
and Ike, at the Louisiana Disaster Recovery Foundation.  Bavishi has a
Master’s degree in city planning from the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology and a Bachelor’s degree in public policy and cultural
anthropology from Duke University.

**<u>Chavonda Jacobs-Young, Nominee for Under Secretary for Research,
Education, and Economics, Department of Agriculture</u>**

Dr. Chavonda Jacobs-Young is the Administrator of the USDA Agricultural
Research Service and currently serves as the Acting Under Secretary for
Research, Education, and Economics and as Acting USDA Chief Scientist.
Dr. Jacobs-Young is the first woman and person of color to lead this
agency, which manages an annual budget of $1.82 billion.

During Dr. Jacobs-Young’s distinguished federal career, she has excelled
in top-level positions in USDA. She led the Office of National Programs
and the Office of International Research as the Agricultural Research
Service Associate Administrator for Research Programs. As the founding
Director of the Office of the Chief Scientist at USDA, she facilitated
the coordination of scientific leadership across federal agencies within
USDA, ensuring that the research and scientific information and data
produced were held to the highest standards of scientific integrity. As
Acting Director for USDA’s National Institute of Food and Agriculture,
she provided leadership and funding for programs that advanced
agriculture-related sciences. And as Acting Deputy Under Secretary for
Research, Education, and Economics Mission Area, she oversaw
Agricultural Research Service, National Institute of Food and
Agriculture, National Agriculture Statistics Service, Economic Research
Service, and Office of the Chief Scientist.

Dr. Jacobs-Young has also served as a senior policy analyst for
agriculture in the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy,
where she supported the President’s Science Advisor and others within
the Executive Office of the President during the Obama Administration on
high priority agricultural scientific issues.

Dr. Jacobs-Young is a native of Augusta, Georgia. She received a B.S.
degree in Pulp and Paper Science and Technology from North Carolina
State University, where she was a three-time ACC track champion. She
earned M.S. and Ph.D. degrees in Wood and Paper Science, also from North
Carolina State University, becoming the first African American woman in
the country to receive a Ph.D. in this field. She is also a graduate of
American University’s Key Executive Program on Public Policy
Implementation. In addition to her career, and community service, Dr.
Jacobs-Young is committed to family. This year she will celebrate her
25th wedding anniversary to Arland Young and she is mom to Autumn and
Arland, Jr.

**<u>Thea Kendler, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for Export
Administration, Department of Commerce</u>**

Thea Kendler is an experienced federal government attorney whose career
focuses on national security and international trade law. As a trial
attorney in the Department of Justice’s National Security Division,
Counterintelligence and Export Control Section, Ms. Kendler partners
with U.S. Attorney’s Offices and federal agents around the country to
investigate and prosecute cases primarily involving export controls,
economic espionage, and counterintelligence. Ms. Kendler frequently
speaks to international audiences on strategic trade controls and
conducts training for foreign government officials on best border
security law enforcement practices.

Before joining the Justice Department in 2014, Ms. Kendler served as
Senior Counsel in the Commerce Department’s Office of Chief Counsel for
Industry and Security, providing legal advice on export controls
regulations and enforcement to the Bureau of Industry and Security.
Earlier in her career, she practiced in the International Trade section
of the law firm Akin Gump Strauss Hauer & Feld LLP, where she conducted
internal investigations and represented corporate clients in export
controls, antidumping and countervailing duty, and Customs proceedings. 

Ms. Kendler graduated from the University of Pennsylvania Law School,
where in her third year she received a Foreign Language and Area Studies
(FLAS) grant from the U.S. Department of Education to further her
Chinese study.  Her undergraduate degree is from Princeton University
with a concentration in the School of Public and International Affairs
and certificates in East Asian Studies and Chinese Culture.  While in
college, she studied Chinese in Beijing, China, and Japanese in
Kanazawa, Japan.  Ms. Kendler is admitted to the New York and District
of Columbia Bars.  She lives in Bethesda, Maryland, with her husband and
two children.

\###
