---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-07-28'
modified_time: 2021-07-28 09:13:22-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/07/28/national-security-memorandum-on-improving-cybersecurity-for-critical-infrastructure-control-systems/
published_time: 2021-07-28 09:11:55-04:00
title: "National Security Memorandum on Improving Cybersecurity for Critical Infrastructure\
  \ Control\_Systems"
---
 
Protection of our Nation’s critical infrastructure is a responsibility
of the government at the Federal, State, local, Tribal, and territorial
levels and of the owners and operators of that infrastructure.  The
cybersecurity threats posed to the systems that control and operate the
critical infrastructure on which we all depend are among the most
significant and growing issues confronting our Nation.  The degradation,
destruction, or malfunction of systems that control this infrastructure
could cause significant harm to the national and economic security of
the United States.  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Section 1.</span>  <span
style="text-decoration: underline">Policy.</span>  It is the policy of
my Administration to safeguard the critical infrastructure of the
Nation, with a particular focus on the cybersecurity and resilience of
systems supporting National Critical Functions, defined as the functions
of Government and the private sector so vital to the United States that
their disruption, corruption, or dysfunction would have a debilitating
effect on national security, economic security, public health or safety,
or any combination thereof.   
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec. 2.</span>  <span
style="text-decoration: underline">Industrial Control Systems
Cybersecurity Initiative.</span>  Accordingly, I have established an
Industrial Control Systems Cybersecurity Initiative (Initiative), a
voluntary, collaborative effort between the Federal Government and the
critical infrastructure community to significantly improve the
cybersecurity of these critical systems.  The primary objective of this
Initiative is to defend the United States’ critical infrastructure by
encouraging and facilitating deployment of technologies and systems that
provide threat visibility, indications, detection, and warnings, and
that facilitate response capabilities for cybersecurity in essential
control system and operational technology networks.  The goal of the
Initiative is to greatly expand deployment of these technologies across
priority critical infrastructure.  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec. 3.</span>  <span
style="text-decoration: underline">Furthering the Industrial Control
Systems Cybersecurity Initiative. </span> The Initiative creates a path
for Government and industry to collaborate to take immediate action,
within their respective spheres of control, to address these serious
threats.  The Initiative builds on, expands, and accelerates ongoing
cybersecurity efforts in critical infrastructure sectors and is an
important step in addressing these threats.  We cannot address threats
we cannot see; therefore, deploying systems and technologies that can
monitor control systems to detect malicious activity and facilitate
response actions to cyber threats is central to ensuring the safe
operations of these critical systems.  The Federal Government will work
with industry to share threat information for priority control system
critical infrastructure throughout the country.  
  
     (a)  The Initiative began with a pilot effort with the Electricity
Subsector, and is now followed by a similar effort for natural gas
pipelines.  Efforts for the Water and Wastewater Sector Systems and
Chemical Sector will follow later this year.  
  
     (b)  Sector Risk Management Agencies, as defined in
section 9002(a)(7) of Public Law 116-283, and other executive
departments and agencies (agencies), as appropriate and consistent with
applicable law, shall work with critical infrastructure stakeholders and
owners and operators to implement the principles and policy outlined in
this memorandum.  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec. 4.</span>  <span
style="text-decoration: underline">Critical Infrastructure Cybersecurity
Performance Goals. </span> Cybersecurity needs vary among critical
infrastructure sectors, as do cybersecurity practices.  However, there
is a need for baseline cybersecurity goals that are consistent across
all critical infrastructure sectors, as well as a need for security
controls for select critical infrastructure that is dependent on control
systems.   
  
     (a)  Pursuant to section 7(d) of Executive Order 13636 of February
12, 2013 (Improving Critical Infrastructure Cybersecurity), the
Secretary of Homeland Security, in coordination with the Secretary of
Commerce (through the Director of the National Institute of Standards
and Technology) and other agencies, as appropriate, shall develop and
issue cybersecurity performance goals for critical infrastructure
to further a common understanding of the baseline security practices
that critical infrastructure owners and operators should follow to
protect national and economic security, as well as public health and
safety.   
  
     (b)  This effort shall begin with the Secretary of
Homeland Security issuing preliminary goals for control systems across
critical infrastructure sectors no later than September 22, 2021,
followed by the issuance of final cross-sector control system goals
within 1 year of the date of this memorandum.  Additionally, following
consultations with relevant agencies, the Secretary of Homeland Security
shall issue sector-specific critical infrastructure cybersecurity
performance goals within 1 year of the date of this memorandum.  These
performance goals should serve as clear guidance to owners and operators
about cybersecurity practices and postures that the American people can
trust and should expect for such essential services.  That effort may
also include an examination of whether additional legal authorities
would be beneficial to enhancing the cybersecurity of critical
infrastructure, which is vital to the American people and the security
of our Nation.  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec. 5.</span>  <span
style="text-decoration: underline">General Provisions.</span>  (a) 
Nothing in this memorandum shall be construed to impair or otherwise
affect:  
  
          (i)   the authority granted by law to an executive department
or agency, or the head thereof; or  
  
          (ii)  the functions of the Director of the Office
of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or
legislative proposals.  
  
     (b)  This memorandum shall be implemented consistent
with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations,
where funding assistance may be required to implement control system
cybersecurity recommendations.  
  
     (c)  This memorandum is not intended to, and does not, create any
right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in
equity by any party against the United States, its departments,
agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other
person.

                                JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
