---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-07-29'
modified_time: 2021-07-29 08:04:14-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/07/29/u-s-strategy-for-addressing-the-root-causes-of-migration-in-central-america/
published_time: 2021-07-29 05:55:00-04:00
title: "Vice President\u2019s Cover Letter: U.S. Strategy for Addressing the Root\
  \ Causes of Migration in Central\_America"
---
 
*Cover Message from Vice President Kamala Harris*

In Central America, the root causes of migration run deep—and migration
from the region has a direct impact on the United States. For that
reason, our nation must consistently engage with the region to address
the hardships that cause people to leave Central America and come to our
border.

For decades, our nation has engaged in Central America. Often well
intentioned, the engagement has often not been consistent. And over the
last few years, the United States significantly pulled back from work
in  
the region.

Under our Administration, President Joe Biden and I have restarted our
nation’s engagement in Central America and diplomatic efforts with
Central American governments. Our Root Causes Strategy is comprehensive
and draws from decades of experience—and is based on four core pieces of
evidence.

**First, addressing the root causes of migration is critical to our
overall immigration effort.**

Just after we took office, President Joe Biden outlined our
Administration’s vision to reform our immigration system by creating a
pathway to citizenship for the nearly 11 million undocumented migrants
in our country, modernizing our immigration process, and effectively
managing our border.

Shortly after that, the President asked me to lead our nation’s efforts
to address the root causes of that migration. That is because migration
to our border is also a symptom of much larger issues in the region.

**Second, providing relief is not sufficient to stem migration from the
region.**

The COVID-19 pandemic and extreme weather conditions have indeed
exacerbated the root causes of migration—which include corruption,
violence, trafficking, and poverty. While our Administration is proud
that we have sent millions of vaccine doses and hurricane relief, we
know that it is not enough to alleviate suffering in the long term.

The root causes must be addressed both in addition to relief efforts—and
apart from these efforts. In everything we do, we must target our
efforts in those areas of highest out-migration—and ensure that these
programs meet the highest standards of accountability and
effectiveness. **  
**

**Third, unless we address all of the root causes, problems will
persist.**

Recently, I travelled to Guatemala, where one of the largest challenges
is corruption. Our Administration knows that, where corruption goes
unchecked, people suffer. And so, on that trip, the United States
announced that we will launch an Anticorruption Task Force which will
include U.S. prosecutors and law enforcement experts who will
investigate corruption cases. It is our goal that, in dealing directly
with corruption, we will also mitigate the lack of economic and
educational opportunities on the ground.

**Fourth, and most importantly, the United States cannot do this work
alone.**

Our Strategy is far-reaching—and focuses on our partnerships with other
governments, international institutions, businesses, foundations, and
civil society. At this writing, we have already received commitments
from the governments of Mexico, Japan, and Korea, and the United
Nations, to join the United States in providing relief to the region.
Our Administration is also working hand-in-hand with foundations and
non-profits to accelerate efforts in Central America.

While, in the past, the private sector has been an underutilized
partner, our Administration is calling on U.S. and international
businesses to invest in the region – and thus far, 12 have done so.
Private sector investment not only boosts economic opportunity, but it
also incentivizes regional governments to create the conditions on the
ground to attract such investment.

\* \* \*

Ultimately, our Administration will consistently engage in the region to
address the root causes of migration. We will build on what works, and
we will pivot away from what does not work. It will not be easy, and
progress will not be instantaneous, but we are committed to getting it
right. Because we know: The strength and security of the United States
depends on the implementation of strategies like this one.

Root Causes Fact Sheet:
[https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/07/29/fact-sheet-strategy-to-address-the-root-causes-of-migration-in-central-america/](https://www.whitehouse.gov/?p=25299)

Root Causes Report:
<https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/07/Root-Causes-Strategy.pdf>
