---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-07-02'
modified_time: 2021-07-02 16:53:24-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/07/02/president-biden-announces-six-key-nominations-2/
published_time: 2021-07-02 16:53:23-04:00
title: "President\_Biden Announces Six Key\_Nominations"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Joe Biden announced his intent to nominate
the following Six individuals to serve in key roles:

-   Alexander Hoehn-Saric, Nominee for Chair of the Consumer Product
    Safety Commission
-   Mary Boyle, Nominee for Commissioner of the Consumer Product Safety
    Commission
-   Gerald Fauth, Nominee for Member of the National Mediation Board
-   Linda Puchala, Nominee for Member of the National Mediation Board
-   Betty Jang, Nominee for Member of the Board of Trustees of the
    Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation
-   Audrey Schuster, Nominee for Member of the Board of Trustees of the
    Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation

**<u>Alexander Hoehn-Saric, Nominee for Chair of the Consumer Product
Safety Commission</u>**

Alexander Hoehn-Saric is Chief Counsel for Communications and Consumer
Protection for the U.S. House of Representatives Committee on Energy &
Commerce.  In this position, he works on legislation and oversight
related to product safety, consumer protection, and communications.  
Hoehn-Saric also served at the Department of Commerce as the Deputy
General Counsel for Strategic Initiatives.   Prior to that, he was
senior counsel for the U.S. Senate Committee on Commerce, Science and
Transportation Committee where he was responsible for product safety and
consumer protection matters.

The son of first-generation immigrants from China and Austria,
Hoehn-Saric grew up in Baltimore, Maryland.  He received a bachelor’s
degree in political science from the University of Chicago and a J.D.
from UCLA Law School.  Hoehn-Saric and his wife Loren, currently reside
in Maryland with their son and daughter.

**<u>Mary Boyle, Nominee for Commissioner of the Consumer Product Safety
Commission</u>**

Mary T. Boyle, the current Executive Director of the U.S. Consumer
Product Safety Commission (CPSC), has spent more than a decade at CPSC
in senior positions across the agency and is a member of the Senior
Executive Service. Her work has covered a broad range of issues,
including policy, administration, legal questions, budgets, product
recalls, negotiations, rules and regulations, and agency morale.

Before joining the Commission staff, Ms. Boyle developed affordable
housing programs for the city of Gaithersburg, Md., worked in private
practice at a major international law firm, and served on Capitol Hill
as a staff member for the late Congressman Steve Solarz and for the Asia
and Pacific Subcommittee of the House Foreign Affairs Committee. Ms.
Boyle received her B.A. in English from Georgetown University in 1985
and her law degree from the University of Virginia in 1991. She is a
member of the District of Columbia and Maryland Bars. She was born and
raised in Brooklyn, New York. She now lives with her husband in
Bethesda, Maryland. They have three adult children, James, Julia, and
Margot.

**<u>Gerald W. Fauth III, Nominee for Member of the National Mediation
Board</u>**

Gerald W. Fauth III currently serves as Chairman of the National
Mediation Board (NMB), where he has served as a Board Member since
November 2017. 

Mr. Fauth has 40 years of experience in the private sector and Federal
government working in the transportation industry.  He has been directly
involved in negotiating, mediating, arbitrating, facilitating,
supporting and/or deciding the resolution of hundreds of complex
transportation problems and disputes during his long career.  In
addition to his NMB experience, from 1999 to 2003, Mr. Fauth served at
the U.S. Surface Transportation Board (STB), where he served as Chief of
Staff and Senior Advisor to a Board Member and was directly involved in
the decision-making process in hundreds of formal written decisions
involving all matters of STB jurisdiction. In 1998, Mr. Fauth was named
by the STB an original member of the Conrail Transaction Council, which
was established in order to provide a forum for constructive dialogue
and timely and efficient communication of information in order to
resolve implementation problems and railroad service concerns associated
with the Conrail railroad transaction, which was the largest railroad
transaction in history.

Mr. Fauth holds a Bachelor’s degree from Hampden-Sydney College in
Virginia. 

**<u>Linda Puchala, Nominee for Member of the National Mediation
Board</u>**

Linda Puchala was first confirmed as Member of the National Mediation
Board by the United States Senate on May 21, 2009. Ms. Puchala
previously served as Chairman from July 1, 2011 through June 30, 2012,
July 1, 2013 through June 30, 2014, from July 1, 2016 through June 30,
2017, and from July 1, 2019 through June 30, 2020. Her most recent
Senate confirmation came on November 2, 2017.

Prior to becoming a Member, Ms. Puchala served 10 years at the National
Mediation Board as a Mediator, Sr. Mediator (ADR) and the Associate
Director of Alternative Dispute Resolution Services. Ms. Puchala’s prior
labor relations experience includes work as International President of
the Association of Flight Attendants-CWA, AFL-CIO and Staff Director,
Michigan State Employees Association, AFSCME, AFL-CIO.

A Michigan native, Ms. Puchala resides in Glen Burnie, Maryland, and
holds a Bachelor’s degree in Business Administration from Cleary
University in Howell, Michigan.

**<u>Betty Y. Jang, Nominee for Member of the Board of Trustees of the
Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation</u>**

Ms. Jang is an executive with over 25 years of legal, compliance, and
leadership experience.  She most recently was an executive at
publicly-traded companies. She has previously provided legal counsel at
several Fortune 250 corporations, practiced law at a national law firm,
and taught as an adjunct professor at the University of Illinois College
of Law. 

Ms. Jang began her career as an assistant public defender with the
Office of the Cook County Public Defender.  She has served as a
scholarship evaluator for the APIA Scholars program, is an alumnus of
the United State of Women Galvanize Chicago Program, and has held
numerous board positions in local, state, and national bar
associations.  She received her B.A. from the University of Illinois and
her J.D. from Chicago-Kent College of Law.

**<u>Audrey K. Schuster, Nominee for Member of the Board of Trustees of
the Harry S. Truman Scholarship Foundation</u>**

Audrey K. Schuster has been an active leader volunteer in the education
and family service community for over 30 years.  Schuster has dedicated
her time and resources to families throughout the Boston community with
a particular focus on mentoring youth and young mothers.  For the last
16 years, Schuster has served as a trained volunteer for the Visiting
Moms Program for Boston’s Jewish Family & Children’s Services, a
100-year-old organization that helps seniors families and children who
are experiencing hunger, poverty or domestic abuse.  Schuster’s
responsibilities include weekly in-home visits to serve families in need
of support as they adjust to parenthood, isolation and food insecurity.

Schuster has been an active fundraiser and philanthropist, chairing
record-breaking development activities for numerous organizations,
including the Brain Tumor Society, the Dana Farber Institute, Tufts
Medical School and Brandeis University Women’s Studies Research Center.
She has served as a Committee Member of the Rivers School, the
Meadowbrook School and Wheaton College to help address strategic issues
and challenges facing their student and academic communities.  Schuster
is a graduate of Simmons University. She the loving wife to real estate
developer Mark Schuster and the proud mother of their three children –
Elizabeth, Nikki and John and their granddaughter Flynn.  

\###
