---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-07-09'
modified_time: 2021-07-09 15:11:49-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/07/09/president-biden-announces-his-intent-to-nominate-four-individuals-to-serve-as-ambassadors/
published_time: 2021-07-09 15:11:48-04:00
title: "President\_Biden Announces His Intent to Nominate Four Individuals to Serve\
  \ as\_Ambassadors"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Joe Biden announced his intent to nominate
the following four individuals to serve as U.S. ambassadors:

-   Denise Campbell Bauer, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
    Plenipotentiary to the French Republic and to the Principality of
    Monaco
-   Peter D. Haas, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
    Plenipotentiary to People’s Republic of Bangladesh
-   Eric M. Garcetti, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
    Plenipotentiary to the Republic of India
-   Bernadette M. Meehan, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
    Plenipotentiary to the Republic of Chile

**<u>Denise Campbell Bauer, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
Plenipotentiary to the French Republic and to the Principality of
Monaco</u>**

Denise Campbell Bauer is an experienced diplomat, non-profit leader, and
advocate for women’s voices in politics and policy. She served as the
United States Ambassador to the Kingdom of Belgium from August 2013
until January 2017, where she led one of the largest embassies in Europe
and earned a reputation for her collaborative leadership style, high
ethics standards, and crisis management skills.  In that role, she
focused on building transatlantic security partnerships and expanding
international trade. 

Bauer began her career in Los Angeles, where she worked as a journalist
for two internationally respected television networks. She went on to
serve in leadership roles for a number of non-profits. 

In 2019, Bauer became the Executive Director of Women for Biden, a
nationwide network of women that organized and mobilized to elect
President Biden. In 2012, she served in a similar role for the
Obama-Biden presidential campaign, while also chairing the Women’s
Leadership Forum for the Democratic National Committee. Upon returning
from Brussels in 2017, she re-engaged in politics, focusing on
supporting women running for office for the first time. 

Bauer received a B.A. in Political Science from Occidental College. She
speaks French.

**<u>Peter D. Haas, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
Plenipotentiary to People’s Republic of Bangladesh</u>**

Peter D. Haas, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of
Minister-Counselor, currently serves as Acting Assistant Secretary of
State and concurrently as Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary, for
Economic and Business Affairs for the Department of State. Previously,
Haas was Senior Advisor/Deputy Assistant Secretary for Trade Policy and
Negotiations for the State Department and prior to that was the Deputy
Permanent Representative to the U.S. Mission to the Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development in Paris, France. Over his career
he has served in positions across five geographic bureaus of the State
Department including as Consul General of the U.S. Consulate General
Mumbai, India. 

Haas holds a BA in International Studies and German from Illinois
Wesleyan University. He attended the London School of Economics as a
Marshall Scholar, where he earned MSc (Econ) degrees in both the
Politics of the World Economy and Comparative Government. He is the
recipient of the James Clement Dunn Award for Excellence and the Cordell
Hull Award for Economic Achievement by Senior Officers.  His foreign
languages are French and German.

**<u>Eric M. Garcetti, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
Plenipotentiary to the Republic of India</u>**

Eric M. Garcetti has been the Mayor of the City of Los Angeles since
2013, following 12 years as a member of the City Council, including six
as Council President.  As Mayor, Garcetti oversees the busiest container
port in the Western Hemisphere, the largest municipal utility in the
country, and one of the busiest airports in the world.  He led LA’s
successful bid to return the summer Olympic Games to American soil for
the first time in three decades.  He currently chairs LA Metro, the
country’s second-busiest transit agency, which is building or extending
15 new transit lines, and shifting to an all-electric fleet.

Garcetti co-founded Climate Mayors and led more than 400 U.S. mayors to
adopt the Paris Climate agreement.  He is the current Chair of C40
Cities – a network of 97 of the world’s biggest cities taking bold
climate action and has led the organization’s engagement and expansion
in India as well as C40’s global response to the COVID pandemic through
the sharing of best practices and resources.

During 12 years as an Intelligence Officer in the U.S. Navy Reserve
Component, Garcetti served under the Commander, U.S. Pacific Fleet and
the Defense Intelligence Agency, retiring in 2017 as a Lieutenant.  A
Rhodes Scholar, he studied at Queen’s College, Oxford and the London
School of Economics and Political Science. Garcetti was selected as an
inaugural Asia 21 Fellow of the Asia Society, and taught at Occidental
College’s Department of Diplomacy and World Affairs, as well as at the
University of Southern California’s School of International Relations. 
He has lived and conducted field work on nationalism, ethnicity, and
human rights in Southeast Asia and Northeast Africa.  He is the founding
Chair of the Latino Alliance of Mayors at the U.S. Conference of Mayors,
serves on the Board of National Association of Latino Elected and
Appointed Officials, and speaks fluent Spanish. Garcetti earned a B.A.
and M.A. at Columbia University, where he was a John Jay Scholar.

**<u>Bernadette M. Meehan, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
Plenipotentiary to the Republic of Chile</u>**

Bernadette Meehan currently serves as the Executive Vice President of
Global Programs for the Obama Foundation, where she served previously as
Chief International Officer and Executive Director of International
Programs.  Prior to joining the Obama Foundation, Ms. Meehan was a
career Foreign Service Officer for over a decade.  During her time with
the State Department, she was detailed to work in multiple positions at
the National Security Council, including as a Senior Advisor, as Special
Assistant to the President and National Security Council Spokesperson,
and earlier, as Director for Strategic Communications.  Among her other
assignments, Ms. Meehan served as Special Assistant to Secretary of
State Hillary Clinton; Dean and Virginia Rusk Fellow at Georgetown
University’s Institute for the Study of Diplomacy; Special Assistant in
the State Department’s Executive Secretariat; Public Affairs Officer at
the U.S. Consulate General Dubai, United Arab Emirates; both Consular
Officer and Special Assistant to the Ambassador at the U.S. Embassy in
Baghdad, Iraq; and Consular Officer at the U.S. Embassy in Bogota,
Colombia. 

Ms. Meehan earned her B.A. from Boston College.  Her civic leadership
includes service on the Board of Advisors at Georgetown University’s
Institute for the Study of Diplomacy and the Advisory Council of Hostage
US.  She speaks Spanish and Arabic.

\###
