---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-07-30'
modified_time: 2021-07-29 22:47:00-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/07/30/statement-of-president-joe-biden-on-the-arrival-of-the-first-flight-of-operation-allies-refuge/
published_time: 2021-07-30 05:00:00-04:00
title: Statement of President Joe Biden on the Arrival of the First Flight of Operation
  Allies Refuge
---
 
Today is an important milestone as we continue to fulfill our promise to
the thousands of Afghan nationals who served shoulder-to-shoulder with
American troops and diplomats over the last 20 years in Afghanistan.
This morning, the first flight of Operation Allies Refuge has arrived in
the United States, carrying Afghans who are eligible for Special
Immigrant Visas (SIV) and their families. These arrivals are just the
first of many as we work quickly to relocate SIV-eligible Afghans out of
harm’s way—to the United States, to U.S. facilities abroad, or to third
countries—so that they can wait in safety while they finish their visa
applications.  
  
These first Afghans are able to come directly to the United States
because they have already completed extensive background checks and
security screening by the Intelligence Community and the Departments of
State and Homeland Security. They will complete the final steps of their
visa applications and required medical checks at Fort Lee, in Virginia,
before traveling onward to begin their new lives in the United States.  
  
I want to honor all those in the United States who have spoken out on
behalf of these brave Afghans, including the proud community of
veterans, who have consistently advocated for the Afghans who were by
their side in the field in Afghanistan, often serving as translators and
interpreters. And I want to thank the diplomats and public servants
across our government and around the world who are working tirelessly as
part of Operation Allies Refuge.  
  
Although U.S. troops are leaving, we will continue to support
Afghanistan through security assistance to Afghan forces, as well as
humanitarian and development aid to the Afghan people to help them
sustain their achievements of the past 20 years.  We will also continue
our diplomatic support for the peace process.  We call for an immediate
reduction in violence in Afghanistan, and for all regional actors to
encourage the parties to return to negotiations without delay so that
the Afghan people can achieve a durable and just political settlement
that brings the peace and security they deserve.  
  
Most of all, I want to thank these brave Afghans for standing with the
United States, and today, I am proud to say to them: “Welcome home.”

\###
