---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-07-19'
modified_time: 2021-07-19 16:28:14-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/07/19/president-biden-announces-three-key-nominations-3/
published_time: 2021-07-19 16:28:13-04:00
title: "President\_Biden Announces Three Key\_Nominations"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Joe Biden announced his intent to nominate
the following three individuals to serve in key roles:

-   Tamara Cofman Wittes, Nominee for Assistant Administrator for Middle
    East, United States Agency for International Development
-   Judith D. Pryor, Nominee for First Vice President of the
    Export-Import Bank
-   Graham Steele, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for Financial
    Institutions, Department of the Treasury

**<u>Tamara Cofman Wittes, Nominee for Assistant Administrator for
Middle East, United States Agency for International Development</u>**

Tamara Cofman Wittes is a senior fellow in the Center for Middle East
Policy at the Brookings Institution, where she focuses on U.S. policy in
the Middle East. Wittes served as deputy assistant secretary of state
for Near Eastern affairs from November of 2009 to January 2012. Wittes
is a co-host of Rational Security, a weekly podcast on foreign policy
and national security issues. Wittes joined Brookings in December of
2003. Previously, she served as a Middle East specialist at the U.S.
Institute of Peace and director of programs at the Middle East Institute
in Washington. She has also taught courses in international relations
and security studies at Georgetown University. Wittes was one of the
first recipients of the Rabin-Peres Peace Award, established by
President Bill Clinton in 1997.

Wittes is the author of “Freedom’s Unsteady March: America’s Role in
Building Arab Democracy” (Brookings Institution Press, 2008) and the
editor of “How Israelis and Palestinians Negotiate: A Cross-Cultural
Analysis of the Oslo Peace Process” (USIP, 2005). She holds a bachelor’s
in Judaic and Near Eastern studies from Oberlin College, and a master’s
and doctorate in government from Georgetown University. She is a founder
of the Leadership Council for Women in National Security, and serves on
the board of the National Democratic Institute. She is also a member of
the Council on Foreign Relations and Women in International Security.

**<u>Judith D. Pryor, Nominee for First Vice President of the
Export-Import Bank</u>**

Judith D. Pryor has over 25 years of leadership experience in
international business, finance, trade, and public policy, primarily in
the high tech, satellite, and international finance sectors. She
currently serves as a Senate-confirmed member of the Export-Import Bank
of the United States (EXIM) Board of Directors. Her portfolio
encompasses Africa and the Middle East, renewable energy, storage and
efficiency, and women and minority-owned businesses.

Ms. Pryor previously served for nearly seven years in the Obama-Biden
Administration at OPIC, now the U.S. International Development Finance
Corp. As Vice President, External Affairs she was responsible for
congressional and public affairs, communications, and U.S. small
business development. During her nearly seven-year tenure and as a
member of the executive leadership team, OPIC’s portfolio grew by 50% to
$21 billion.

Before entering public service, Ms. Pryor held senior leadership
positions with companies in the satellite industry including WorldSpace
Satellite Radio and COMSAT. She began her career in the Washington
offices of Gray & Co., continuing with the firm after its acquisition by
Hill and Knowlton Public Affairs Worldwide. A native of Cleveland, Ohio,
she holds a B.A. in Communication from Bowling Green State University
and served on the BGSU Foundation Board from 2016-2019. She resides in
Washington, DC with her husband and son.

**<u>Graham Steele, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for Financial
Institutions, Department of the Treasury</u>**

Graham Steele is an expert on financial regulation and financial
institutions, with more than a decade of experience working at the
highest levels of law and policy in Washington, D.C. Steele is currently
the director of the Corporations and Society Initiative at Stanford
Graduate School of Business, a research initiative that examines issues
at the intersection of markets, business, and government to promote more
accountable capitalism and governance.

Prior to joining Stanford GSB, Steele was a member of the staff of the
Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco. From 2015 to 2017, Graham was the
Minority Chief Counsel for the United States Senate Committee on
Banking, Housing & Urban Affairs. From 2010 to 2015 he was a Legislative
Assistant for United States Senator Sherrod Brown (D-OH), handling the
Senator’s work as a member of the Senate Banking Committee. During that
time, he also spent four years as the staff director of the Subcommittee
on Financial Institutions & Consumer Protection. Prior to joining
Senator Brown’s staff, Steele was a policy counsel at Public Citizen’s
Congress Watch in Washington, D.C.

Steele received his bachelor’s degree in political science from the
University of Rochester and his law degree from The George Washington
University Law School. He is originally from Brookline, Massachusetts,
and is a member of the Massachusetts State Bar.

\###
