---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-07-29'
modified_time: 2021-07-29 15:33:18-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/07/29/president-biden-announces-six-key-nominations-3/
published_time: 2021-07-29 15:33:17-04:00
title: "President\_Biden Announces Six Key\_Nominations"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Joe Biden announced his intent to nominate
the following six individuals to serve in key roles:

-   Jonathan Eric Kaplan, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
    Plenipotentiary to the Republic of Singapore
-   Francisco O. Mora, Nominee for Permanent Representative of the
    United States of America to the Organization of American States,
    with the rank of Ambassador   
-   Nicole Angarella, Nominee for Inspector General, United States
    Agency for International Development
-   John Plumb, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for Space Policy,
    Department of Defense
-   Amy Searight, Nominee for Assistant Administrator for the Bureau for
    Asia, United States Agency for International Development
-   Alex Wagner, Nominee for Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for
    Manpower and Reserve Affairs, Department of Defense

**<u>Jonathan Eric Kaplan, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
Plenipotentiary to the Republic of Singapore</u>**

Jonathan Kaplan currently serves as Chairperson of the
EducationSuperHighway, a nonprofit organization that works with
governors and officials across the nation to provide American public
school classrooms access to high-speed internet connections. An
entrepreneur and innovator, Kaplan most recently was the Chairperson and
CEO of FishSix Restaurant Corporation. Prior to that, as Chairperson and
CEO of Pure Digital Technologies, he invented and marketed the
revolutionary Flip video camera and, when Pure Digital was acquired by
Cisco Systems, Kaplan became Senior Vice President and General Manager
of its Consumer Products Division.  Earlier Kaplan was President and CEO
of Sega.com, Founder and CEO of MovieStreet, Vice President and General
Manager of Geoworks, and Vice-President of Hands On Technology. Kaplan
serves as an advisor for the Young Presidents Organization, meeting with
corporate management and government leaders in dozens of countries. 
Kaplan earned a Bachelor of Science degree in industrial management from
Carnegie Mellon University and was the 2010 Ernst & Young Northern
California Entrepreneur of the Year.

**<u>Francisco O. Mora, Nominee for Permanent Representative of the
United States of America to the Organization of American States, with
the rank of Ambassador   </u>**

Francisco O. Mora is a Professor of Politics and International
Relations, and Senior Researcher, at the Jack D. Gordon Institute for
Public Policy at Florida International University (FIU).  Earlier, he
was Director of the Kimberly Green Latin American and Caribbean Center
at FIU’s Green School of International and Public Affairs.  Mora served
as Deputy Assistant Secretary for Defense for the Western Hemisphere. 
He held several teaching positions, including Professor of National
Security Strategy and Latin American Studies at the National War College
at the National Defense University, and Associate Professor and Chair in
the Department of International Studies at Rhodes College.  He is the
author of four books and numerous articles and other publications.  Mora
earned a B.A. in International Affairs at The George Washington
University.  He received his M.A. in Inter-American Studies and a Ph.D.
in International Affairs from the University of Miami.  He also
completed studies at universities in Peru and Costa Rica.  He is a
recipient of the Office of the Secretary of Defense Medal for
Exceptional Public Service, Department of Defense.  Mora is a native
Spanish speaker and also speaks Portuguese.

**<u>Nicole Angarella, Nominee for Inspector General, United States
Agency for International Development</u>**

Nicole Angarella serves as the general counsel to the USAID Inspector
General. In that position, Ms. Angarella leads a team of attorneys and
specialists that provides independent legal counsel to the Inspector
General, deputy inspector general, senior managers, and staff. Her
office provides comprehensive legal advice, research, and guidance to
the Offices of Audit, Investigations, and Management within the Office
of Inspector General (OIG). Her office also updates the Inspector
General and staff on legal developments and represents OIG in Federal
and administrative litigation.

Prior to her appointment as general counsel, Ms. Angarella served as a
senior legal counsel at USAID OIG and at the Department of
Transportation’s OIG. Ms. Angarella has spent her entire federal career
in the Inspector General community. She is Chair of the Council of
Counsels to the Inspectors General. Before joining the U.S. Government,
she worked as an associate attorney in the General Litigation & White
Collar Criminal Defense Practice Group at Cozen O’Connor, an
international law firm representing corporate and individual clients in
Federal investigations and complex criminal and civil matters. She also
worked as an associate attorney specializing in employment and labor
relations law at a law firm in Washington, DC. Ms. Angarella has a B.A.
in political science from the University of Mary Washington and a law
degree from the Columbus School of Law at The Catholic University of
America. Ms. Angarella is a member of both the Virginia State Bar and
the District of Columbia Bar.

**<u>John Plumb, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for Space Policy,
Department of Defense</u>**

John F. Plumb, Ph.D., is the Principal Director, Chief of Government
Relations at the Aerospace Corporation, a federally funded research and
development center focused on national security space programs.  He has
served in national security roles for over 25 years at the strategic,
operational, and tactical levels.  His expertise includes space, missile
defense, nuclear and conventional deterrence, and submarines. 

Prior to his current role he was a senior engineer at RAND.  He has
served at the White House, the Pentagon, and the U.S. Senate in senior
defense staff roles.  His past positions include Director for Defense
Policy and Strategy on the National Security Council staff, Acting
Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Space Policy at the Pentagon,
Principal Director for Nuclear and Missile Defense Policy at the
Pentagon, and Military Legislative Assistant to U.S. Senator Ken Salazar
in the Senate.  He ran for office in 2016 in New York’s 23rd
Congressional District.  Dr. Plumb has over 25 years active and reserve
service as a U.S. Navy Submarine Officer and is currently a Captain in
the Navy Reserve.  He holds a Ph.D. in Aerospace Engineering from the
University of Colorado, an M.A. in Physics from the University of
Colorado, and a B.S. in Physics from the University of Notre Dame.

**<u>Amy Searight, Nominee for Assistant Administrator for the Bureau
for Asia, United States Agency for International Development</u>**

Amy Searight is currently Senior Associate for Asia at the Center for
Strategic and International Studies (CSIS), where she previously served
as Senior Advisor and Director of the Southeast Asia Program.  Prior to
joining CSIS, Amy served in the Obama-Biden Administration.  From
2014-2016 she served as Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for South
and Southeast Asia, and from 2012-2014 she served Principal Director for
East Asia Security in the Office of the Secretary of Defense.  In 2016
she was awarded the Secretary of Defense Medal for Outstanding Public
Service.  Before the Pentagon, Searight served as Senior Advisor for
Asia in the U.S. Agency for International Development for two years. 

Earlier in her career, she worked in the State Department as an
International Affairs Fellow of the Council on Foreign Relations,
serving as Special Economic Advisor for Asia Pacific Economic
Cooperation and on the Policy Planning Staff.  She was assistant
professor of political science at The Elliott School of International
Affairs at The George Washington University and at Northwestern
University.  A native of New Jersey, she received her B.A. in political
economy from Williams College, and an M.A. in East Asian Studies and
Ph.D. in Political Science from Stanford University. 

**<u>Alex Wagner, Nominee for Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for
Manpower and Reserve Affairs, Department of Defense</u>**

Alex Wagner is a lawyer who served in various positions in the
Department of Defense during the Obama-Biden administration.  In 2015,
Mr. Wagner was appointed as Chief of Staff to the Secretary of the Army,
shaping policy and outreach for the Secretary while guiding the Army’s
civilian and military leadership with respect to the Secretary’s
priorities, initiatives, and plans.  In this role, he was closely
involved in the development and implementation of policies opening all
combat roles to women, enabling transgender Americans to openly serve
their nation, and updating the Army’s uniform and grooming regulations
to enhance recruiting and retention of soldiers of faith.  From 2011 to
2014, he served as Senior Advisor for Rule of Law and Detainee Policy in
the Office of the Secretary of Defense, where he represented the
Department to the interagency and internationally on issues regarding
human rights and the laws of war. From 2009 to 2011, Mr. Wagner served
as the Special Assistant to the Assistant Secretary of the Defense
(Global Strategic Affairs).

Mr. Wagner is currently Vice President for Strategic Initiatives at the
Aerospace Industries Association, leading efforts on talent and
workforce policy as well as developing strategic partnerships to tell
the story of technological innovation and the people who drive it.  He
has also worked as a lawyer in private practice, specializing in
intellectual property law and the First Amendment. He received his law
degree from Georgetown Law, where he served as an adjunct professor from
2011 to 2017, and his undergraduate degree from Brown University.

\###
