---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-07-23'
modified_time: 2021-07-22 22:40:37-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/07/23/fact-sheet-how-the-biden-harris-administration-is-advancing-educational-equity/
published_time: 2021-07-23 07:00:00-04:00
title: "FACT SHEET: How the Biden- \u2060 Harris Administration Is Advancing Educational\
  \ Equity"
---
 
*As Schools Reopen, Vital PK-12 Investments Will Address Disparities,
Build Back Our Schools on a Stronger and More Equitable Foundation, and
Enable America to Compete Globally*

  
The last year and a half have been extraordinarily challenging for
America’s students. As we prepare for the 2021-2022 school year, the
Biden-Harris Administration is committed to helping every school safely
open for full-time, in-person instruction; accelerate academic
achievement; and build school communities where all students feel they
belong.     
  
At the same time, President Biden understands that addressing the
immediate impact of the pandemic is not enough. For too many
Americans—including students of color, children with disabilities,
English learners, LGBTQ+ students, students from low-income families,
and other underserved students—the promise of a high-quality education
has gone unfulfilled for generations. Studies show the [remarkable
benefits of preschool
programs](https://www.future-ed.org/wp-content/uploads/2017/12/Gormley_et_al-2017-Journal_of_Policy_Analysis_and_Management.pdf),
but such programs are too often [out of
reach](https://s3-us-east-2.amazonaws.com/edtrustmain/wp-content/uploads/2014/09/05162154/Young-Learners-Missed-Opportunities.pdf)
for children of color and low-income children. [Dramatically unequal
funding](https://edtrust.org/resource/funding-gaps-2018/) between school
districts means some children learn in gleaming new classrooms, while
students just down the road navigate [unsafe and rundown
facilities](https://eric.ed.gov/?id=ED498100). Amid a [nationwide
teacher
shortage](https://learningpolicyinstitute.org/sites/default/files/product-files/A_Coming_Crisis_in_Teaching_REPORT.pdf),
high-poverty school districts struggle to attract certified staff and
experienced educators. And students of color and children with
disabilities face disproportionately high rates [of school
discipline](https://www2.ed.gov/about/offices/list/ocr/docs/crdc-exclusionary-school-discipline.pdf)
that removes them from the classroom, with lasting consequences.  
  
[With 53 percent of our public school
students](https://nces.ed.gov/programs/coe/indicator/cge) now students
of color, addressing these disparities is critical for not only all our
children, but for our nation’s collective health, happiness, and
economic security. Consistent with the President’s [Executive
Order](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/01/20/executive-order-advancing-racial-equity-and-support-for-underserved-communities-through-the-federal-government/),
the Administration is committed to advancing educational equity for
every child—so that schools and students not only recover from the
pandemic, but Build Back Better. As First Lady Dr. Biden says, “Any
country that out-educates us is going to outcompete us.” We will meet
the challenges of the coming decades only by harnessing the full
potential of every young person.  
  
Taken together, the unprecedented investments already made in the
American Rescue Plan—along with those proposed in the Build Back Better
Agenda—will devote historic and vitally-needed resources that unlock
opportunity for millions of Americans. These investments in
evidence-based approaches will shore up schools struggling with the
aftermath of COVID-19, tackle inter-generational educational
disparities, address the holistic needs of children, and incentivize
states to help our schools rebuild on a stronger and more equitable
foundation.  
  
To support the equitable education of every child at every step, the
Administration will:

-   Safely reopen schools and support students, particularly those
    disproportionately impacted by the pandemic;  
-   Invest in high-quality early childhood education, including
    providing universal pre-school for all three and four-year-olds and
    access to affordable child care;  
-   Address the national teacher shortage by improving teacher
    preparation, strengthening pipelines for underrepresented teachers,
    and supporting current teachers;  
-   Upgrade and build new public schools and child care centers;  
-   Expand college and career pathways for middle and high school
    students;  
-   Make a historic $20 billion investment in high-poverty Title I
    schools;  
-   Fund additional transformational investments to support the needs of
    the whole child, including community schools that provide wraparound
    services like afterschool programs, and hiring more counselors,
    social workers and school psychologists.

**<u>ADVANCING EDUCATIONAL EQUITY IN THE AMERICAN RESCUE PLAN</u>**  
  
The President made clear on [Day One of this
Administration](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/01/21/executive-order-supporting-the-reopening-and-continuing-operation-of-schools-and-early-childhood-education-providers/)
that safely reopening schools was a national priority, signing an
[Executive
Order](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/01/21/executive-order-supporting-the-reopening-and-continuing-operation-of-schools-and-early-childhood-education-providers/)
that launched a comprehensive effort across the White House, Department
of Education, and Department of Health and Human Services to safely
reopen schools. The Department of Education has worked to support states
and school districts in implementing CDC guidance for safe operations,
and engaged education leaders across the country to collect and share
best practices. The Administration has prioritized K-12 educator, staff,
and child care vaccinations, and increased access to and awareness of
vaccines among adolescents and their parents.  
  
States, school districts, and schools are supported in this work by the
American Rescue Plan’s historic and needed investment in our schools.
This included $130 billion to support the safe reopening of schools and
address the academic, social, emotional, and mental health needs of
students—including $122 billion through the American Rescue Plan’s
Elementary and Secondary School Emergency Relief Fund (ARP ESSER). This
funding is being used to help schools safely operate, implement
high-quality summer learning and enrichment programs, hire nurses and
counselors, support the vaccination of students and staff, and invest in
other measures to take care of students. Thanks to these
efforts—combined with the Administration’s aggressive vaccination push
and the hard work of state, district, school leaders, educators, and
parents—the percentage of K-8 schools offering only remote instruction
dropped from 23 percent in January to only 2 percent in May.  
  
The American Rescue Plan recognizes and addresses [the disproportionate
impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on underserved
students](https://www2.ed.gov/about/offices/list/ocr/docs/20210608-impacts-of-covid19.pdf).
Districts and states must spend a combined minimum of 24 percent of
total ARP ESSER funds on evidence-based practices to address lost
instructional time and the impact of the coronavirus on underserved
students, such as summer learning and enrichment programs, comprehensive
afterschool programs, and tutoring. School and district leaders must
ensure that these efforts respond to students’ social and emotional
needs as well. ARP ESSER includes a first-of-its-kind maintenance of
equity requirement to ensure that high-poverty school districts and
schools are protected from funding cuts. The American Rescue Plan also
includes additional funding for students with disabilities, students
experiencing homelessness, Tribal education, nutrition security,
broadband access, and child care for low-income families.  
  
**<u>ADVANCING EDUCATIONAL EQUITY IN THE BUILD BACK BETTER
AGENDA</u>**  
  
The resources in the American Rescue Plan, however, are not enough to
address the deep educational inequities that have existed in our country
since its founding. President Biden’s Build Back Better Agenda directly
addresses longstanding educational inequities and will revitalize our
education system so that students have the opportunities to learn and
prepare for jobs in tomorrow’s economy, which includes ensuring the
needs of the whole child are addressed.  
  
**<u>Make a historic investment to support students in high-poverty
schools</u>**.  
To ensure that every student—including those from underserved and
under-resourced communities—can learn and thrive, the President’s
discretionary budget request provides an additional $20 billion in
funding for Title I schools. These investments will help address
long-standing funding disparities between under-resourced school
districts and wealthier districts:

-   ***Providing meaningful incentives to examine and address
    inequalities in school funding systems.*** There is a [$23 billion
    annual funding
    gap](https://www2.ed.gov/about/overview/budget/budget22/justifications/a-ed.pdf)
    between white and nonwhite districts, and gaps between high- and
    low-poverty districts as well. A [2018 report from The Education
    Trust](https://edtrust.org/resource/funding-gaps-2018/) found that
    the highest poverty districts receive 7 percent less per pupil in
    State and local funding than the lowest poverty districts.  
-   ***Promoting competitive teacher pay.*** In 2017, public school
    teachers [earned 18.7 percent
    less](https://www.epi.org/publication/teacher-pay-gap-2018/) in
    weekly wages than their peer group of college educated workers, up
    from only 1.8 percent less in 1994. [In many states, teachers with
    ten years of experience who head a household of four may qualify for
    public assistance.  
    ](https://www.americanprogress.org/issues/education-k-12/reports/2014/07/23/94168/mid-and-late-career-teachers-struggle-with-paltry-incomes/)
-   ***Increasing preparation for, access to, and success in rigorous
    coursework.*** Black and Native American students [participate in AP
    coursework at
    half](https://sites.ed.gov/underservedyouth/files/2017/01/MS3-Lead-Higher-Initiative-Finding-Americas-Missing-AP-and-IB-Students.pdf)
    the national average**.** [While 87% of low-poverty schools provide
    calculus, only 45 percent of high-poverty schools
    do.](https://learningpolicyinstitute.org/product/crdc-course-access-report)
    Lack of access to and preparation for success in mathematics and
    science coursework ultimately has a [negative impact on the outcomes
    achieved by Black and Latino students in high-paying, in-demand STEM
    fields](https://www.americanprogress.org/issues/education-k-12/news/2019/08/28/473876/advancing-racial-equity-career-technical-education-enrollment/).   

**<u>Boost early childhood care and education</u>**  
The President’s Build Back Better Agenda makes historic investments in
our youngest learners, so that every child can succeed, paving the way
for the best-educated generation in U.S. history.  
  
***Establishing universal preschool***  
Preschool is critical to ensuring that children start kindergarten with
the skills and supports that set them up for success in school. However,
[children of color are less likely to have access to high-quality
preschool
programs,](https://s3-us-east-2.amazonaws.com/edtrustmain/wp-content/uploads/2014/09/05162154/Young-Learners-Missed-Opportunities.pdf)[resulting
in disparate educational outcomes before students even enter
kindergarten](https://nieer.org/wp-content/uploads/2017/01/NIEER-AchievementGaps-report.pdf%20with%20a%20furtherhttps:/nces.ed.gov/ecls/kindergarten2011.asp).
[Research
shows](https://www.future-ed.org/wp-content/uploads/2017/12/Gormley_et_al-2017-Journal_of_Policy_Analysis_and_Management.pdf)
that kids who attend preschool programs are more likely to take honors
classes and less likely to repeat a grade, do better in [math and
reading](https://www.brookings.edu/bpea-articles/the-impacts-of-expanding-access-to-high-quality-preschool-education/),
[and are more likely to graduate from high school and enroll in
college](https://www.nber.org/system/files/working_papers/w28756/w28756.pdf?utm_campaign=PANTHEON_STRIPPED&amp%3Butm_medium=PANTHEON_STRIPPED&amp%3Butm_source=PANTHEON_STRIPPED).
Impacts are particularly strong for [children from low-income
families](https://www.nber.org/system/files/working_papers/w23215/w23215.pdf),
and children with disabilities benefit from inclusive, accessible
preschool programs with their
peers[.](https://www.nber.org/system/files/working_papers/w23215/w23215.pdf)  
  
President Biden’s plan would establish a national partnership with
states to offer free, high-quality, accessible, and inclusive preschool
for all three-and four-year-olds. This will benefit five million
children, and save the average family $13,000 a year on preschool
tuition. This historic investment in America’s future will prioritize
high-need areas first, establishing universal programs in these
communities, so that all students can access them, facilitating the
creation of diverse classrooms that are best for all students. It will
also enable communities and families to choose the setting that works
best for them, whether that’s a preschool classroom in a public school,
family child care provider or child care center, or a Head Start
program. The President’s plan supports low student-to-teacher ratios,
high quality standards, and inclusive classroom environments.  
  
***Make high-quality child care affordable and accessible***  
High-quality early care and education helps ensure that children can
take full advantage of education and training opportunities later in
life, especially for children from low-income families and children of
color, who disproportionately [lack
access](https://nces.ed.gov/programs/digest/d19/tables/dt19_202.30b.asp)
to good child care options and who face [learning
disparities](https://rhyclearinghouse.acf.hhs.gov/sites/default/files/docs/18755-Disparities_in_Early_Learning_and_Development%5Bfull%5D.pdf)
before they even can go to preschool. President Biden’s proposal will
ensure that low- and middle-income families can access affordable,
high-quality, child care. The most hard-pressed working families would
pay nothing, and families earning 1.5 times their state’s median income
would spend no more than 7 percent of their income on child care for
their young children. The plan will also provide families with a range
of inclusive and accessible options to choose from, from child care
centers to family child care providers to Early Head Start programs.
Child care providers will receive funding to support the true cost of
quality early childhood education, which will allow them to provide care
that is accessible and inclusive of children with disabilities.  
  
The President’s investments in child care and preschool will also
support early childhood educators, more [than nine in
ten](https://nwlc.org/wp-content/uploads/2020/08/ChildCareWorkersFS.pdf)
of whom are women and more than [four in
ten](https://nwlc.org/wp-content/uploads/2020/08/ChildCareWorkersFS.pdf)
of whom are women of color. [One report found that nearly
half](https://cscce.berkeley.edu/wp-content/uploads/2014/ReportFINAL.pdf)
rely on public income support programs. The President’s plan establishes
a $15 minimum wage for these educators and ensures those with similar
qualifications as kindergarten teachers receive comparable compensation
and benefits.  
  
And the President’s proposal will extend the American Rescue Plan’s
expanded Child and Dependent Care Tax Credit so that families can
instead choose to get a credit for up to half of their child care
expenses, saving up to $8,000 per year.  
  
**<u>Invest in our teachers.</u>** Few people have a bigger impact on a
child’s life than a great teacher. Unfortunately, the U.S. faces a
[large and growing teacher
shortage](https://learningpolicyinstitute.org/sites/default/files/product-files/A_Coming_Crisis_in_Teaching_REPORT.pdf).
Before the pandemic, [schools needed an estimated additional 100,000
certified
teachers](https://learningpolicyinstitute.org/sites/default/files/product-files/A_Coming_Crisis_in_Teaching_REPORT.pdf),
resulting in key positions going unfilled, the granting of emergency
certifications, or teachers teaching out of their certification area.
Shortages disproportionately impact [students of
color](https://learningpolicyinstitute.org/sites/default/files/product-files/A_Coming_Crisis_in_Teaching_REPORT.pdf)
and rural communities. In schools with the highest percentage of
students of color, the percentage of teachers who are uncertified is
more than [three times as
large](https://learningpolicyinstitute.org/product/understanding-teacher-shortages-interactive?gclid=EAIaIQobChMIlZbktfGP8AIVg-DICh10CQyXEAAYAiAAEgJgV_D_BwE)
as in schools with the lowest percentage of students of color. The
percentage of teachers in their first or second year of teaching is [70
percent
higher](https://learningpolicyinstitute.org/product/understanding-teacher-shortages-interactive?gclid=EAIaIQobChMIlZbktfGP8AIVg-DICh10CQyXEAAYAiAAEgJgV_D_BwE).
While access to [teachers of color benefits all students and has a
particularly strong impact on students of
color](https://learningpolicyinstitute.org/sites/default/files/product-files/Diversifying_Teaching_Profession_REPORT_0.pdf),
only around [one in five](https://www.bls.gov/cps/cpsaat11.htm) teachers
are people of color, compared to [more than
half](https://nces.ed.gov/programs/coe/indicator_cge.asp) of public
school students.  
  
The Build Back Better Agenda will increase support for teacher
preparation and invest in Grow Your Own programs and year-long, paid
teacher residency programs. These programs have a significant impact on
[student outcomes and teacher
retention](https://www.aft.org/sites/default/files/ae_spring2017guha_hyler_and_darling-hammond.pdf),
and [are more likely to enroll underrepresented teacher candidates,
including candidates of
color](https://www.aft.org/sites/default/files/ae_spring2017guha_hyler_and_darling-hammond.pdf).
The plan would also invest in teacher preparation at Historically Black
Colleges and Universities, Tribal Colleges and Universities, and
Minority-Serving Institutions. The President has also called for
increased investments in certifications in high-demand areas like
special education and bilingual education, and is urging Congress to
invest in programs that leverage teachers as leaders, such as
high-quality mentorship programs for new teachers. These investments
will improve the quality of new teachers, increase retention rates, and
grow the number of teachers of color—all of which will improve student
outcomes like [academic
achievement](https://mrbartonmaths.com/resourcesnew/8.%20Research/Improving%20Teaching/Teaching%20Experience.pdf)
and [high school graduation
rates](https://learningpolicyinstitute.org/sites/default/files/product-files/Diversifying_Teaching_Profession_REPORT_0.pdf), resulting
in [higher long-term earnings, job creation, and a boost to the
economy](https://learningpolicyinstitute.org/sites/default/files/product-files/Diversifying_Teaching_Profession_REPORT_0.pdf).
As more teachers stay in the profession, districts will [save
money](https://learningpolicyinstitute.org/product/the-cost-of-teacher-turnover)
on recruiting and training, and can invest more in programs that
directly impact students.  
  
**<u>Expand career pathways for middle and high school
students.</u>**[Strong dual enrollment
programs](https://ies.ed.gov/ncee/wwc/interventionreport/671) increase
college enrollment, and graduation. High-quality career and technical
education models have significant positive effects on [high school
graduation, increase college enrollment, and improve
wages](https://files.eric.ed.gov/fulltext/ED570132.pdf). The President’s
plan would provide more students with access to high-quality career and
technical education programs that expand access to computer science;
connect underrepresented students to careers in STEM and in in-demand,
high-growth industry sectors; that include partnerships with
institutions of higher education, employers, and other stakeholders; and
that allow students to engage in quality work-based learning
opportunities, earn a credential, and/or earn college credit.  
  
**<u>Eliminate inequitable school infrastructure conditions</u>.**
According to one national study, [there is a $38 billion
gap](https://infrastructurereportcard.org/cat-item/schools/) between the
current infrastructure spending on schools and actual infrastructure
needs. The [American Society of Civil Engineers gives American school
infrastructure a grade of
D+.](https://infrastructurereportcard.org/cat-item/schools/)[Students of
color are more likely to attend schools with rundown and unsafe
facilities](https://www2.ed.gov/about/offices/list/ocr/letters/colleague-resourcecomp-201410.pdf).
[Poor physical school conditions are associated with increased rates of
student absenteeism, with one study finding poor ventilation associated
with a 10 to 20 percent increase in
student absences](https://ajph.aphapublications.org/doi/pdfplus/10.2105/AJPH.2009.165324).
While the American Rescue Plan provides critical resources for improving
ventilation systems, it does not provide sufficient resources to address
all health and safety needs, let alone long-overdue investments to
increase energy efficiency, ensure our schools have the technology and
labs to prepare students for jobs in tomorrow’s economy, or build new
buildings where needed. President Biden’s plan supports investments to
upgrade and build new public schools, ensuring that all our children
have equal access to healthy learning environments that prepare them for
success. It also invests in upgrading child care facilities and
increasing the supply of child care in areas that need it most.  
  
**<u>Addressing lead in schools</u>.** There is no safe level of lead
exposure for children. Lead can slow development and cause learning,
behavior, and hearing problems in children, as well as lasting kidney
and brain damage. Communities of color are [at a higher
risk](https://www.cdc.gov/nceh/lead/prevention/populations.htm) of lead
exposure. The Bipartisan Infrastructure Framework would make significant
investments towards the elimination of all lead pipes and service lines
in the country, and reduce lead exposure in our schools and child care
facilities, improving the health of our country’s children, including in
communities of color.  
  
**<u>Increasing broadband access for students and families</u>.**
Broadband internet is critical to learning. Yet, by one definition, more
than 30 million Americans live in areas where there is no broadband
infrastructure that provides minimally acceptable speeds. [In urban
areas, there is a stark digital divide: a much higher percentage of
white families report having a home broadband internet than Black, or
Latino
families](https://www.pewresearch.org/internet/fact-sheet/internet-broadband/?menuItem=d5edf003-5858-4269-89c5-f2889ecf7951).
[Native families in their tribal communities also lack sufficient access
to high-speed
internet.](https://aipi.asu.edu/sites/default/files/tribal_digital_divide_stimulus_bill_advocacy_04032020.pdf)
[One Michigan
study](https://msutoday.msu.edu/news/2020/poor-internet-connection-leaves-rural-students-behind)
found that 47 percent of students who lived in rural areas had broadband
access at home, compared to 77 percent of those in suburban areas. The
last year made painfully clear the cost of these disparities,
particularly for students who struggled to connect while learning
remotely. The Bipartisan Infrastructure Framework would make historic
investments in building “future proof” broadband infrastructure in
unserved and underserved areas, so that we finally reach 100 percent
high-speed broadband coverage.  
  
**<u>Electrifying school buses for safe student travel</u>.** [One study
finds](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4476560/) that when
children ride buses with clean air technologies, they experience lower
exposures to air pollution, less pulmonary inflammation, and reduced
absenteeism. The Bipartisan Infrastructure Framework would make a down
payment on electrifying our yellow school bus fleet.  
  
**<u>Increase support for children with disabilities.</u>** All
children, including those with disabilities, should be provided the
services and support they need to thrive in school and graduate ready
for college or a career. The discretionary request provides an historic
$2.6 billion increase for Individuals with Disabilities Education Act
(IDEA) grants that support special education and related services for
children with disabilities in grades preschool through 12. This funding
would, for the first time in eight years, increase the federal share of
the cost of providing services to children with disabilities, and is a
significant first step toward fully funding IDEA. The discretionary
request also includes an additional $250 million for IDEA Part C, which
supports early intervention services for infants and toddlers with
disabilities or delays, and funds services that have a proven track
record of improving academic and developmental outcomes. This increase
in funding would be paired with reforms to improve access to these vital
services for underserved children, including children of color and
children from low-income families.  
  
**<u>Prioritize the physical and mental well-being of students.</u>**
The discretionary request provides $1 billion to increase the number of
counselors, nurses, and mental health professionals in schools,
prioritizing high-poverty schools.  
  
**<u>Support full-service community schools.</u>** Community schools
play a critical role in providing comprehensive wrap-around services to
students and their families, from afterschool to adult education
opportunities to health and nutrition services. The discretionary
request increases funding for these schools from $30 million to $443
million, an over ten-fold increase.  
  
**<u>Foster diverse schools.</u>** Schools play vital roles in bringing
communities together. But, too many of the nation’s schools are [still
largely segregated by race and
class](https://cepa.stanford.edu/sites/default/files/wp19-06-v092019.pdf),
mirroring their communities. The discretionary request includes $100
million for a new voluntary grant program to help communities develop
and implement strategies to build more diverse student bodies. As part
of their application, applicants would be required to demonstrate strong
student, family, teacher, and community involvement in their plans.
Applicants would have flexibility to develop and implement school
diversity plans that reflect their individual needs and circumstances,
and improve educational opportunities and outcomes for students.

\###
