---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-07-13'
modified_time: 2021-07-13 17:25:05-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/07/13/president-biden-announces-11-key-nominations/
published_time: 2021-07-13 16:35:00-04:00
title: "President\_Biden Announces 11 Key\_Nominations"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Joe Biden announced his intent to nominate
the following 11 individuals to serve in key roles:

-   Rahul Gupta, Nominee for Director of National Drug Control Policy
-   Gabe Camarillo, Nominee for Under Secretary of the Army, Department
    of Defense
-   Alan Estevez, Nominee for Under Secretary for Industry and Security,
    Department of Commerce
-   Jeff Lane Flake, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
    Plenipotentiary to the Republic of Turkey
-   Kent Doyle Logsdon, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
    Plenipotentiary to the Republic of Moldova
-   Atul Gawande, Nominee for Assistant Administrator of the Bureau for
    Global Health, United States Agency for International Development
-   Lisa Wang, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for Enforcement and
    Compliance, Department of Commerce
-   Chester John Culver, Nominee for Member of the Board of Directors of
    the Federal Agricultural Mortgage Corporation
-   Rich Trumka, Jr., Nominee for Commissioner of the Consumer Product
    Safety Commission
-   James A. Diossa, Nominee for Member of the Board of Trustees of the
    James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation
-   Terrence K. Wright, Nominee for Member of the Board of Trustees of
    the James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation

**<u>Rahul Gupta, Nominee for Director of National Drug Control
Policy</u>**

Rahul Gupta, MD, MPH, MBA, FACP, is the Chief Medical and Health Officer
and Senior Vice President at March of Dimes. In his role, Dr. Gupta
provides strategic oversight for March of Dimes’ domestic and global
medical and public health efforts. He currently also serves as clinical
Professor in the Department of Medicine at Georgetown University School
of Medicine as well as adjunct professor in the Department of Health
Policy, Management and Leadership in the School of Public Health at West
Virginia University and visiting faculty at Harvard T.H. Chan School of
Public Health. 

A practicing primary care physician of 25 years, Dr. Gupta previously
served under two Governors  as the Health Commissioner of West Virginia.
As the state’s Chief Health Officer, he led the opioid crisis response
efforts and launched a number of pioneering public health initiatives,
including the Neonatal Abstinence Syndrome Birthscore program to
identify high-risk infants. Dr. Gupta also led the development of the
state’s Zika action plan and its preparedness efforts during the Ebola
Virus Disease Outbreak.

A national and global thought leader and a driver of innovative public
policies on health issues, Dr. Gupta serves as an advisor to several
organizations and task forces on local, national and international
public health policy. The son of an Indian diplomat, Rahul was born in
India and grew up in the suburbs of Washington, D.C. At age 21, he
completed medical school at the University of Delhi. He earned a
master’s degree in public health from the University of
Alabama-Birmingham and a global master’s of business administration
degree from the London School of Business and Finance. He is married to
Dr. Seema Gupta, a physician in the Veterans Administration for over a
decade. They are the proud parents of identical twin sons, Arka and
Drew.

**<u>Gabe Camarillo, Nominee for Under Secretary of the Army, Department
of Defense</u>**

Gabe Camarillo is a lawyer who served in various positions in the
Department of Defense during the Obama-Biden administration.  In 2015,
Mr. Camarillo was appointed as Assistant Secretary of the Air Force
(Manpower & Reserve Affairs) overseeing all manpower and reserve
component matters affecting over 670,000 military and civilian
personnel.  From 2012 to 2015, he served as Principal Deputy Assistant
Secretary of the Army (Acquisition, Logistics & Technology), where he
helped lead the Army’s research and development and modernization
portfolio.   From 2010 to 2012, Mr. Camarillo previously served as the
Special Assistant to the Assistant Secretary of the Army (Acquisition,
Logistics & Technology).

Mr. Camarillo is currently a Senior Vice President at SAIC and
previously held other leadership positions in the company.  He has also
worked as a lawyer in private practice, specializing in commercial
litigation, campaign finance and government ethics.  He received his law
degree from Stanford Law School and his undergraduate degree from
Georgetown University, where he previously served as an adjunct
professor at Georgetown University’s School of Public Policy. 

**<u>Alan Estevez, Nominee for Under Secretary for Industry and
Security, Department of Commerce</u>**

Alan Estevez, a recognized leader in the defense and aerospace
community, joined Deloitte Consulting as a national security strategy
and logistics executive in June 2017 after completing a 36 year career
with the Department of Defense. Mr. Estevez served as the Principal
Deputy Under Secretary of Defense (Acquisition, Technology & Logistics)
from 2013 to 2017. Mr. Estevez developed, implemented and managed
acquisition, contracting, installation, and logistics programs and
policies that increased combat effectiveness as well as the department’s
efficiency and buying power.

Prior to his last appointment, Mr. Estevez held several key positions
within the Office of the Secretary of Defense, including as the
Assistant Secretary of Defense for Logistics and Materiel Readiness. In
this position, he was responsible for providing world class military
logistics support to the men and women of the United States Armed
Forces. He was the first career Federal official to hold this position.
Mr. Estevez also served as the Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of
Defense for Logistics and Material Readiness. Mr. Estevez has been
honored numerous times, including three Department of Defense
Distinguished Public Service Medals and the Distinguished Civilian
Service Medal.

Estevez holds a Bachelor of Arts in political science from Rutgers
University and a Master of Science in national resource strategy from
the Industrial College of the Armed Forces at the National Defense
University.

**<u>Jeff Lane Flake, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
Plenipotentiary to the Republic of Turkey</u>**

Jeff L. Flake is currently a Distinguished Fellow at Arizona State
University and a Distinguished Fellow at the Sorensen Center for Moral
and Ethical Leadership at Brigham Young University.  He also serves on
the Senior Advisory Committee at Harvard’s Institute of Politics.  Flake
was a Member of Congress for 18 years, representing Arizona in the U.S.
Senate (2013-2019) and the U.S. House of Representatives (2001-2013),
where he served on the Senate Foreign Relations Committee and the House
Foreign Affairs Committee.  A frequent public speaker, he is also a
former contributor for CNN and CBS News.  Flake is a Director of Taylor
Morrison, a home builder in Scottsdale, Arizona, and a former Executive
Director of the Goldwater Institute in Phoenix, Arizona.  Early in his
career, he was Executive Director of the Foundation for Democracy in
Namibia.  He speaks Afrikaans.  He earned a B.A. in International
Relations, and an M.A. in Political Science, at Brigham Young
University.  He is a recipient of the Gold Medal of Honorary Patronage
from the University Philosophical Society, Trinity College, Dublin,
Ireland.

**<u>Kent Doyle Logsdon, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
Plenipotentiary to the Republic of Moldova</u>**

Kent Doyle Logsdon, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service with
the rank of Minister-Counselor, is Chief of Staff to the Under Secretary
for Economic Growth, Energy and the Environment.  Previously, he served
as Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary of State in the Bureau of Energy
Resources, and was the Deputy Chief of Mission at the U.S. Embassy in
Berlin, Germany, serving as Chargé d’Affaires, a.i. from January 2017 to
May 2018.  Prior to that, Logsdon was the Executive Assistant to the
Deputy Secretary of State for Management and Resources, and Deputy
Executive Secretary of the State Department.  Previous positions include
Director of the Operations Center, Director of the Office of Russian
Affairs, and Deputy Chief of Mission in Tbilisi, Georgia.  Logsdon also
served in Kyiv, Ukraine; Bangkok, Thailand; Almaty, Kazakhstan;
Islamabad, Pakistan; and Stuttgart, Germany.   He holds a Master’s
Degree from the University of Virginia and a Bachelor’s Degree from the
University of Notre Dame.  The recipient of a Presidential Meritorious
Service Award, Logsdon speaks Russian, Ukrainian, Thai and German. 

**<u>Atul Gawande, Nominee for Assistant Administrator of the Bureau for
Global Health, United States Agency for International Development</u>**

Atul Gawande, MD, MPH, is the Cyndy and John Fish Distinguished
Professor of Surgery at Brigham and Women’s Hospital, Samuel O. Thier
Professor of Surgery at Harvard Medical School, and Professor of Health
Policy and Management at Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health. Dr.
Gawande is also founder and chair of Ariadne Labs, a joint center for
health systems innovation at Brigham and Women’s Hospital and the
Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health, and of Lifebox, a nonprofit
organization making surgery safer globally. During the coronavirus
pandemic, he co-founded CIC Health, which operates COVID-19 testing and
vaccination nationally, and served as a member of the Biden transition
COVID-19 Advisory Board. From 2018 to 2020, he was CEO of Haven, the
Amazon, Berkshire Hathaway, and JPMorgan Chase health care venture. He
previously served as a senior advisor in the Department of Health and
Human Services in the Clinton Administration.

In addition, Atul has been a staff writer for The New Yorker magazine
since 1998 and written four New York Times best-selling books:
Complications, Better, The Checklist Manifesto, and Being Mortal. He is
the winner of two National Magazine Awards, AcademyHealth’s Impact Award
for highest research impact on health care, a MacArthur Fellowship, and
the Lewis Thomas Award for writing about science.

**<u>Lisa Wang, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for Enforcement and
Compliance, Department of Commerce</u>**

Ms. Wang has been a partner with Picard, Kentz and Rowe LLP since 2016. 
She specializes in international trade law matters, including
antidumping and countervailing duty litigation and trade policy issues. 
Previously, Ms. Wang was a Senior Attorney in the Office of the Chief
Counsel for Trade Enforcement and Compliance at the U.S. Department of
Commerce, and an Assistant General Counsel in the Office of the U.S.
Trade Representative.  Before that, she spent three years as the Senior
Import Administration Officer for the U.S. Embassy in Beijing, China,
and was an associate with Dewey Ballantine LLP.  She earned her JD from
the Georgetown University Law Center, and her BS from Cornell
University.  Ms. Wang is married to Timothy Kovacs, where they reside in
Washington, D.C. with their two young daughters.

**<u>Chester John Culver, Nominee for Member of the Board of Directors
of the Federal Agricultural Mortgage Corporation</u>**

Chet Culver served as the 40<sup>th</sup> Governor of Iowa from 2007 to
2011. Under his leadership, Iowa successfully managed a $6 billion
annual budget, earned a “Triple A” bond rating, and built up one of the
largest budget surpluses in the nation. As governor, Culver led Iowa to
become the renewable energy capital of the United States.

A public servant for over 25 years, Culver previously served on the
Federal Agricultural Mortgage Board during the Obama Administration. He
also served as the Secretary of State of Iowa from 1999 to 2007 and was
a former teacher and coach in his community. Culver founded the Chet
Culver Group, an energy sector consulting firm, in 2011.

**<u>Rich Trumka, Jr., Nominee for Commissioner of the Consumer Product
Safety Commission</u>**

Rich Trumka Jr. is General Counsel & Staff Director of the Economic and
Consumer Policy Subcommittee of the U.S. House of Representatives’
Committee on Oversight and Reform.  In this position, he works on
oversight and investigations related to consumer protection, consumer
product safety, and public health.  Trumka previously served as
Assistant Attorney General in the Consumer Protection Division of the
Maryland Office of the Attorney General.  Prior to that, he was a
litigation attorney in private practice. 

Trumka received his bachelor’s degree in Industrial and Labor Relations
from Cornell University, and his J.D. from Georgetown University Law
Center.  After law school, Trumka served as a judicial law clerk to
Judge Berle M. Schiller of the Eastern District of Pennsylvania.  Trumka
and his wife, Jessica, live in Maryland with their son and daughter.   

**<u>James A. Diossa, Nominee for Member of the Board of Trustees of the
James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation</u>**

James A. Diossa served two terms as Mayor of the City of Central Falls,
Rhode Island. Upon taking office in 2012, James became the youngest
mayor in the state’s history and the city’s first Latino mayor. Assuming
leadership of a postindustrial urban city in the midst of municipal
bankruptcy proceedings, he sought to tackle these challenges head-on.
Through hard work and the development of strategic partnerships, James
turned Central Falls around, stabilizing the city’s finances and raising
its long-term bond rating to investment grade. He also secured millions
of dollars in federal, foundation, and private sector funding to improve
the city’s quality of life and infrastructure. Most recently, James led
efforts to partner with the neighboring city of Pawtucket to create a
unified response to the COVID-19 pandemic, which included organizing a
volunteer corps and engaging the former head of the Rhode Island
Department of Health to serve as the city’s Chief Health Strategist.

James previously served on the Central Falls City Council, where he
organized citywide efforts to save the city’s only library from closing
and stopped the US Postal Service from closing the city’s only post
office. He holds a Bachelor’s Degree in Criminal Justice from Becker
College. Born and raised in Central Falls, Rhode Island, James is the
proud son of Colombian immigrants and a lifelong soccer enthusiast.

James is currently a Senior Advisor at Brown University’s The Policy
Lab. His lifelong partner Sandra and James have a beautiful daughter,
Arianna Hallel.

**<u>Terrence K. Wright, Nominee for Member of the Board of Trustees of
the James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation</u>**

Terrence K. Wright, of Wilmington, Delaware, is a 1982 graduate of The
American University in Washington, DC. From 1982 to 2009, Mr. Wright
served in various positions on the staff of United States Senator Joseph
R. Biden, Jr., both in Washington, DC, and in Wilmington, Delaware.

Upon his retirement from the Senate in 2009, Mr. Wright was appointed by
Delaware Governor Jack Markell to the Delaware Heritage Commission, a
state agency which promotes the study of the History of Delaware.  He
has since been reappointed by the current Governor, John C. Carney, Jr.,
and was Chairman of the Commission’s Observance of the Sesquicentennial
of The Civil War.  In that capacity, he was the Executive Producer of
the Commission educational film, entitled, “Delaware and Gettysburg: The
Story of Delaware, Delawareans, and The Battle that Determined America’s
Future.”

Mr. Wright in currently serving on New Castle, County, Delaware’s
Council Redistricting Commission, which is charged with redrawing the
County’s Councilmanic boundaries in light of the 2020 Census.  He served
in the same capacity after the 2010 Census. Additionally, Mr. Wright is
currently the Chairman of the Eastern Brandywine Hundred Coordinating
Council, a community organization dedicated to local history and
community planning in the communities along the Delaware River in
northern Delaware.

\###
