---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-07-15'
modified_time: 2021-07-15 18:10:40-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/07/15/washington-declaration/
published_time: 2021-07-15 18:10:39-04:00
title: Washington Declaration
---
 
Today, the President of the United States and the Chancellor of Germany
affirm their commitment to close bilateral cooperation in promoting
peace, security, and prosperity around the world.

**The foundation of our relationship is a shared commitment to**
**democratic principles, values, and institutions.** Together, we will
uphold the rule of law, promote transparency and good governance, and
support civil society and independent media. We will defend the rights
and dignity of all individuals, and counter injustice and inequality
wherever it occurs. We uphold the universal values at the heart of the
United Nations Charter and stand together in our commitment to promote
respect for human rights everywhere, including by rejecting and
responding in concert to violations of human rights. We must act now to
demonstrate that democracy delivers for our people at home and that
democratic leadership delivers for the world.

**We commit ourselves to defending an open world.** Across the globe,
all nations must be free to determine their political futures free from
foreign interference, coercion, or domination by outside powers. As two
nations whose economies depend on the free transit of goods around the
world, we affirm the critical importance of the freedoms of navigation
and overflight and other lawful uses of the sea, consistent with
international law. This vision is unachievable in a world carved into
competing spheres of influence and we will resist attempts to create
them, be it through attempts at territorial annexation, control of
digital infrastructure, transnational repression, or weaponized energy
flows.

**More than three decades after German reunification, we will continue
to work tirelessly for a Europe that is whole, free, and at peace.**
Where outside powers present barriers to the realization of this vision,
we will join together to collectively strengthen our defense, cultivate
our resilience, and enhance our solidarity. NATO will remain the
cornerstone of this effort, and our commitment to Article 5 is ironclad.
We underscore the need to build upon our alliances and partnerships for
the challenges that lie ahead – including cyber threats, energy
security, disinformation, corruption, democratic backsliding, and
interference in our elections.

**We will work together to ensure that the rules, norms, and standards
that govern emerging technologies are channeled toward freedom rather
than repression.** As technology reshapes our citizens’ lives, our
national economies, and our geopolitical environments, it must reflect
our core democratic values. We will deepen cooperation between our
scientists, engineers, and mathematicians to ensure that the major
innovations of this century advance democratic governance, rather than
authoritarianism. States need to protect the rights of citizens, and we
will resist the use and spread of surveillance technologies to
improperly restrict the exercise of human rights.

**We recognize our responsibility to lead in the development of global
solutions to shared challenges. **Our citizens’ lives are subject to
disruption by a range of international forces that demand a collective
response. We are committed to taking urgent action to address the
climate crisis, including by launching the Climate and Energy
Partnership to deepen collaboration on the policies and energy
technologies needed to accelerate the global net-zero transition. We
will work to strengthen global health and health security, including
resilience against future pandemics. We will work tirelessly toward a
sustainable global economic recovery, constructed on a fair, inclusive,
sustainable, rules-based global economy for the 21st century. With
shared strength and ingenuity, we will innovate novel solutions to these
novel challenges – and work together bilaterally, as well as in the G7
and G20, to ensure the multilateral system, including the UN system, can
meet the demands of our time.

Since the end of World War II, countless people from all walks of life –
including business and science, civilian and in uniform, civil society
organizations, think tanks and academic networks – have strengthened and
deepened the bond between our two nations. As a lasting demonstration of
our bilateral relationship and our commitment to the above principles,
we are launching a U.S.-German Futures Forum that will fully utilize the
expertise and innovative power of our societies and recommend solutions
to jointly shape our future. To facilitate cooperation on crucial
economic issues, we will also establish a U.S.-German Economic
Dialogue.  
  
**Joseph R. Biden, Jr.**  
**Angela Merkel**  
July 15, 2021

\###
