---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-07-19'
modified_time: 2021-07-19 18:56:17-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/07/19/readout-of-president-joseph-r-biden-jr-meeting-with-king-abdullah-ii-of-jordan/
published_time: 2021-07-19 18:56:16-04:00
title: "Readout of President Joseph R. Biden, Jr. Meeting with King Abdullah II of\_\
  Jordan"
---
 
President Joseph R. Biden, Jr. met today with His Majesty King Abdullah
II of Jordan to reaffirm the enduring strength of the partnership
between the United States and Jordan. President Biden confirmed
unwavering U.S. support for Jordan and His Majesty’s leadership. He was
proud to announce the delivery of over 500,000 COVID-19 vaccines to
Jordan, underscoring the U.S. commitment to bringing the same urgency to
international vaccination efforts that we have demonstrated at home.

The leaders discussed pressing economic challenges exacerbated by the
effects of the COVID-19 pandemic, both at home and across the globe. 
They focused on the benefits of investing in infrastructure, and
discussed the President’s infrastructure plan as well as Jordan’s plans
for a desalination project and Jordan’s potential for greater regional
economic integration through investments in energy infrastructure. 

The leaders also consulted on opportunities to enhance peace and
stability in the Middle East. In that regard, the President expressed
his strong support for a two-state solution to the Israeli-Palestinian
conflict and respect for Jordan’s special role as custodian of Muslim
holy places in Jerusalem. The President expressed U.S. support for
engagement between Jordan and the new Israeli Government, as
demonstrated by their bilateral agreement earlier this month to improve
Jordan’s access to fresh water and increase Jordan’s exports to the West
Bank.

President Biden commended the important role Jordan plays in the wider
stability of the region and welcomed the recent trilateral summit in
Baghdad between Iraq, Jordan, and Egypt. The two leaders discussed the
enormous challenges in Syria and the importance of a broad humanitarian
initiative to reach all Syrians in need.

The leaders reflected on the strategic U.S.-Jordan defense relationship.
They discussed U.S. support for the modernization of Jordan’s fleet of
F-16 fighter jets, which will allow for greater interoperability and
effectiveness of the Jordanian Armed Forces.  President Biden thanked
Jordan for its important early contributions to the successful campaign
to defeat ISIS, and honored the memory of Captain Muath al-Kasasbeh as
an example of Jordanian courage and heroism. 

President Biden reaffirmed that his administration looks forward to
strengthening bilateral cooperation in multiple areas over the coming
months, including the promotion of economic opportunities that will be
vital for a bright future in Jordan.

\###
