---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-07-28'
modified_time: 2021-07-28 16:02:35-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/07/28/statement-by-president-joe-biden-on-the-bipartisan-infrastructure-deal/
published_time: 2021-07-28 16:02:34-04:00
title: Statement by President Joe Biden on the Bipartisan Infrastructure Deal
---
 
I am pleased to join a bipartisan group of United States Senators and
announce our deal to make the most significant long-term investment in
our infrastructure and competitiveness in nearly a century.

I want to thank the bipartisan group for working together and the
committee chairs for raising their ideas and concerns with me, Vice
President Harris, and members of the Cabinet.

This deal signals to the world that our democracy can function, deliver,
and do big things. As we did with the transcontinental railroad and the
interstate highway, we will once again transform America and propel us
into the future.

This deal makes key investments to put people to work all across the
country—in cities, small towns, rural communities, and across our
coastlines and plains.

It will put Americans to work in good-paying, union jobs repairing our
roads and bridges. It will put plumbers and pipefitters to work
replacing all of the nation’s lead water pipes so every child and every
American can turn on the faucet at home or school and drink clean
water—including in low-income communities and communities of color that
have been disproportionally affected by dangerous lead pipes.

Americans will build transmission lines and upgrade our power grid to be
more resilient and cleaner. Americans will strengthen our
infrastructure, like our levees, in the face of extreme weather like
superstorms, wildfires, droughts, hurricanes, and heat waves.

American workers will make a historic investment to install the
first-ever national network electric vehicle charging stations and
undertake critical environmental clean-ups.

This bipartisan deal is the most important investment in public transit
in American history and the most important investment in rail since the
creation of Amtrak 50 years ago. It will deliver high speed internet to
every American.

And, we’re going to do it without raising taxes by one cent on people
making less than $400,000 a year—no gas tax increase and no fee on
electric vehicles.

This agreement will help ensure that America can compete in the global
economy just when we are in a race with China and the rest of the world
for the 21<sup>st</sup> Century.

And, it comes at a critical time. We are emerging from this pandemic
with an economy that is back from the brink. We are seeing the fastest
job growth on record. We are experiencing the fastest economic growth in
nearly four decades.

Everyone from unions to business leaders and economists left, right, and
center believe the public investments in this deal will mean more jobs,
higher productivity, and higher growth for our economy over the long
term. Experts believe that the majority of the deal’s benefits will flow
to working families.

Of course, neither side got everything they wanted in this deal. But
that’s what it means to compromise and forge consensus—the heart of
democracy. As the deal goes to the entire Senate, there is still plenty
of work ahead to bring this home. There will be disagreements to resolve
and more compromise to forge along the way.

But the bottom line is—the Bipartisan Infrastructure Deal is a
blue-collar blueprint to rebuild America that will help make our
historic economic recovery a historic long-term boom.

\###
