---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-07-09'
modified_time: 2022-01-22 14:17:04-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/07/09/fact-sheet-executive-order-on-promoting-competition-in-the-american-economy/
published_time: 2021-07-09 06:40:00-04:00
title: "FACT SHEET: Executive Order on Promoting Competition in the American\_Economy"
---
 
The economy is booming under President Biden’s leadership. The economy
has gained more than three million jobs since the President took
office—the most jobs created in the first five months of any presidency
in modern history. Today, the President is building on this economic
momentum by signing an [Executive
Order](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/07/09/executive-order-on-promoting-competition-in-the-american-economy/)
to promote competition in the American economy, which will lower prices
for families, increase wages for workers, and promote innovation and
even faster economic growth.

For decades, corporate consolidation has been accelerating. In [over
75%](https://poseidon01.ssrn.com/delivery.php?ID=409065022090123092012067078086115107100012095020070029025083079086096073094098075085122016002103042099002113082005024090123021051037093012023080067090015110022015049069087098078117019024125021127031003020126124121120123113125029089025105027005103097&EXT=pdf&INDEX=TRUE) of
U.S. industries, a smaller number of large companies now control more of
the business than they did twenty years ago. This is true across
healthcare, financial services, agriculture and more.

That lack of competition drives up prices for consumers. As fewer large
players have controlled more of the market, mark-ups (charges over
cost) [have
tripled](https://www.janeeckhout.com/wp-content/uploads/RMP.pdf).
 Families are paying higher prices for necessities—things like
prescription drugs, hearing aids, and internet service.

Barriers to competition are also driving down wages for workers. When
there are only a few employers in town, workers have less opportunity to
bargain for a higher wage and to demand dignity and respect in the
workplace. In fact, research shows that industry consolidation is
decreasing advertised wages by [as much as
17%](http://jhr.uwpress.org/content/early/2020/05/04/jhr.monopsony.1218-9914R1.full.pdf+html). [Tens
of millions](https://www.epi.org/publication/noncompete-agreements/) of
Americans—including those working in construction and retail—are
required to sign non-compete agreements as a condition of getting a job,
which makes it harder for them to switch to better-paying options.  
  
In total, higher prices and lower wages caused by lack of competition
are now estimated to cost the median American household [$5,000 per
year](https://www.economicliberties.us/our-work/confronting-americas-concentration-crisis-a-ledger-of-harms-and-framework-for-advancing-economic-liberty-for-all/).

Inadequate competition holds back economic growth and innovation. The
rate of [new business formation](https://eig.org/dynamism) has fallen by
almost 50% since the 1970s as large businesses make it harder for
Americans with good ideas to break into markets. There are [fewer
opportunities](https://ilsr.org/wp-content/uploads/downloads/2016/08/MonopolyPower-SmallBusiness.pdf) for
existing small and independent businesses to access markets and earn a
fair return.  Economists find that as competition
declines, [productivity
growth](https://one.oecd.org/document/DAF/COMP/WD(2018)67/en/pdf) slows, [business
investment and innovation
decline](https://www.nber.org/system/files/working_papers/w23583/w23583.pdf),
and [income](https://research.chicagobooth.edu/~/media/5872FBEB104245909B8F0AE8A84486C9.pdf), [wealth](https://www.oecd.org/daf/competition/Inequality-hidden-cost-market-power-2017.pdf),
and [racial
inequality](https://rooseveltinstitute.org/wp-content/uploads/2020/07/RI_Racial-Rules-of-Corporate-Power_Issue-brief_201911-1.pdf) widen.

When past presidents faced similar threats from growing corporate power,
they took bold action. In the early 1900s, Teddy Roosevelt’s
Administration broke up the trusts controlling the economy—Standard Oil,
J.P. Morgan’s railroads, and others—giving the little guy a fighting
chance. In the late 1930s, FDR’s Administration supercharged antitrust
enforcement, increasing more than eightfold the number of cases brought
in just two years—enforcement actions that saved
consumers [billions](https://lawecommons.luc.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?referer=&httpsredir=1&article=1494&context=facpubs) in
today’s dollars and helped unleash decades of sustained, inclusive
economic growth.

Today President Biden is taking decisive action to reduce the trend of
corporate consolidation, increase competition, and deliver concrete
benefits to America’s consumers, workers, farmers, and small
businesses. **Today’s historic Executive Order established a
whole-of-government effort to promote competition in the American
economy. **The Order** includes 72 initiatives by more than a dozen
federal agencies to promptly tackle some of the most pressing
competition problems across our economy. **Once implemented, these
initiatives will result in concrete improvements to people’s lives.

Among other things, they will:

-   Make it easier to change jobs and help raise wages by banning or
    limiting non-compete agreements and unnecessary, cumbersome
    occupational licensing requirements that impede economic mobility.
-   Lower prescription drug prices by supporting state and tribal
    programs that will import safe and cheaper drugs from Canada.
-   Save Americans with hearing loss thousands of dollars by allowing
    hearing aids to be sold over the counter at drug stores.
-   Save Americans money on their internet bills by banning excessive
    early termination fees, requiring clear disclosure of plan costs to
    facilitate comparison shopping, and ending landlord exclusivity
    arrangements that stick tenants with only a single internet option.
-   Make it easier for people to get refunds from airlines and to
    comparison shop for flights by requiring clear upfront disclosure of
    add-on fees.
-   Make it easier and cheaper to repair items you own by limiting
    manufacturers from barring self-repairs or third-party repairs of
    their products.
-   Make it easier and cheaper to switch banks by requiring banks to
    allow customers to take their financial transaction data with them
    to a competitor.
-   Empower family farmers and increase their incomes by strengthening
    the Department of Agriculture’s tools to stop the abusive practices
    of some meat processors.
-   Increase opportunities for small businesses by directing all federal
    agencies to promote greater competition through their procurement
    and spending decisions.

**The Order also encourages the leading antitrust agencies to focus
enforcement efforts on problems in key markets and coordinates other
agencies’ ongoing response to corporate consolidation. **The Order:

-   Calls on the leading antitrust agencies, the Department of Justice
    (DOJ) and Federal Trade Commission (FTC), to **enforce the antitrust
    laws vigorously** and recognizes that the law allows them
    to **challenge prior bad mergers** that past Administrations did not
    previously challenge.
-   Announces a policy that enforcement should focus in particular
    on **labor markets, agricultural markets, healthcare markets (which
    includes prescription drugs, hospital consolidation, and
    insurance)**, **and the tech sector.**
-   Establishes a **White House Competition Council, led by the Director
    of the National Economic Council, **to monitor progress on
    finalizing the initiatives in the Order and to coordinate the
    federal government’s response to the rising power of large
    corporations in the economy.

A more detailed summary of the key actions in the Order is provided
below:

**<u>Labor Market</u><span style="text-decoration: underline">s</span>**

Competition in labor markets can empower workers to demand higher wages
and greater dignity and respect in the workplace. One way companies
stifle competition is with non-compete clauses.
Roughly [half](https://www.cbsnews.com/news/half-of-u-s-businesses-ask-employees-to-sign-noncompete-agreements-and-half-of-them-are-low-wage-workers/) of
private-sector businesses require at least some employees to enter
non-compete agreements, affecting some [36 to 60
million](https://www.epi.org/publication/noncompete-agreements/) workers.

Overly burdensome occupational licensing requirements also restrict
competition. In certain occupations, such as skilled construction
trades, licensing is critical to protecting public health and safety and
increasing wages for workers who acquire in-demand skills and
knowledge.  In other occupations, however, it can impede worker mobility
without countervailing benefits. Today,
almost [30%](https://www.ftc.gov/system/files/documents/reports/options-enhance-occupational-license-portability/license_portability_policy_paper_0.pdf)
of jobs in the United States require a license, up from less than 5% in
the 1950s. [Fewer than
5%](https://www.ncsl.org/Portals/1/Documents/employ/Occu-Licensing-2nd-Edition_v02_web.pdf) of
occupations that require licensing in at least one state are treated
consistently across all 50 states. That locks some people out of jobs,
and it makes it harder for people to move between states—particularly
burdening military
spouses, [34%](https://download.militaryonesource.mil/12038/MOS/Reports/military-spouse-licensure-report-2019.pdf) of
whom work in a field requiring a license and are subject to
military-directed moves every few years.

Workers may also be harmed by
existing [guidance](https://www.justice.gov/atr/file/903511/download) provided
by the Department of Justice and Federal Trade Commission to Human
Resource personnel
that [allows](https://www.booker.senate.gov/news/press/booker-warren-question-doj-ftc-on-policy-allowing-employers-to-share-compensation-data) third
parties to make wage data available to employers—and not to workers—in
certain circumstances without triggering antitrust scrutiny. This may be
used to collaborate to suppress wages and benefits.

**In the Order, the President:**

-   Encourages the FTC to **ban or limit non-compete agreements**.
-   Encourages the FTC to **ban unnecessary occupational licensing
    restrictions that impede economic mobility**.
-   Encourages the FTC and DOJ to strengthen antitrust guidance
    to **prevent employers from collaborating to suppress wages** **or
    reduce benefits **by sharing wage and benefit information with one
    another.

These actions complement the President’s call for Congress to pass the
Protecting the Right to Organize (PRO) Act to ensure workers have a free
and fair choice to join a union and to collectively bargain. Unions are
critical to empowering workers to bargain with their employers for
better jobs and to creating an economy that works for everyone. 

**<u>Healthcare</u>**

The proposed Order tackles four areas where lack of competition in
healthcare increases prices and reduces access to quality care.

***<u>Prescription Drugs</u>*:** Americans pay more than [2.5
times ](https://www.rand.org/news/press/2021/01/28.html)as much for the
same prescription drugs as peer countries, and [sometimes much
more](https://aspe.hhs.gov/pdf-report/Comparing-Insulin-Prices). Price
increases continue to [far surpass
inflation](https://www.americanprogress.org/issues/democracy/reports/2019/08/30/473911/big-pharma-reaps-profits-hurting-everyday-americans/).
As a result, nearly one in four Americans report difficulties paying for
medication, and nearly one in three
Americans [report](https://www.kff.org/health-costs/press-release/poll-nearly-1-in-4-americans-taking-prescription-drugs-say-its-difficult-to-afford-medicines-including-larger-shares-with-low-incomes/) not
taking their medications as prescribed. 

These high prices are in part the result of lack of competition among
drug manufacturers. The largest pharmaceutical companies are able to
wield their market power to reap average annual profits
of [15-20%,](https://www.gao.gov/assets/gao-18-40.pdf) as compared to
average annual profits of 4-9% for the largest non-drug companies.

One strategy that drug manufacturers have used to avoid competing is
“pay for delay” agreements, in which brand-name drug manufacturers pay
generic manufacturers to stay out of the market. That has raised drug
prices [by $3.5 billion per
year](https://www.ftc.gov/news-events/media-resources/mergers-competition/pay-delay),
and [research also
shows](https://www.nber.org/system/files/working_papers/w28964/w28964.pdf?utm_campaign=PANTHEON_STRIPPED&amp%3Butm_medium=PANTHEON_STRIPPED&amp%3Butm_source=PANTHEON_STRIPPED) that
“pay for delay” and similar deals between generic and brand name
manufacturers reduce innovation—reducing new drug trials and R&D
expenditures.

**In the Order, the President:**

-   Directs the Food and Drug Administration to **work with states and
    tribes to safely import prescription drugs from Canada**, pursuant
    to the Medicare Modernization Act of 2003.
-   Directs the Health and Human Services Administration (HHS) to
    increase **support for generic and biosimilar drugs**, which provide
    low-cost options for patients.
-   Directs HHS to issue **a comprehensive plan within 45 days to combat
    high prescription drug prices and price gouging**. 
-   Encourages the FTC to **ban “**[**pay for
    delay**](https://www.nber.org/system/files/working_papers/w28964/w28964.pdf?utm_campaign=PANTHEON_STRIPPED&amp%3Butm_medium=PANTHEON_STRIPPED&amp%3Butm_source=PANTHEON_STRIPPED)**”
    and similar agreements by rule.**

***<u>Hearing Aids</u>*:** Hearing aids are so expensive that
only [14%](https://hearinghealthfoundation.org/blogs/why-so-many-cant-afford-to-hear-better) of the
approximately [48 million
Americans ](https://www.cdc.gov/nceh/hearing_loss/public_health_scientific_info.html)with
hearing loss use them. On average, they cost more
than [$5,000 ](https://www.consumerreports.org/hearing-aids/best-and-worst-hearing-aid-brands-and-retailers/)per
pair, and those costs are often not covered by health insurance. A major
driver of the expense is that consumers must get them from a doctor or a
specialist, even though [experts
agree](https://www.nap.edu/download/23446) that medical evaluation is
not necessary. Rather, this requirement serves only as red tape and a
barrier to more companies selling hearing aids. The four largest hearing
aid manufacturers now
control [84%](http://concentrationcrisis.openmarketsinstitute.org/industry/hearing-aid-manufacturing/) of
the market.   
In 2017, Congress passed a bipartisan proposal to allow hearing aids to
be sold over the counter. However, the Trump Administration Food and
Drug Administration failed to issue the necessary rules that would
actually allow hearing aids to be sold over the counter, leaving
millions of Americans without low-cost options.

**In the Order, the President:**

-   Directs HHS to consider issuing **proposed rules within 120 days
    for allowing hearing aids to be sold over the counter.** 

***<u>Hospitals</u>*:** Hospital consolidation has left many
areas, [especially rural
communities](https://www.gao.gov/products/gao-21-93), without good
options for convenient and affordable healthcare service. Thanks to
unchecked mergers, the ten largest healthcare systems now control
a [quarter](https://www2.deloitte.com/us/en/insights/industry/health-care/hospital-mergers-acquisition-trends.html) of
the market. Since
2010, [138](https://www.shepscenter.unc.edu/programs-projects/rural-health/rural-hospital-closures/) rural
hospitals have shuttered, including a high of 19 last year, in the
middle of a healthcare crisis. Research shows that hospitals in
consolidated markets charge [far higher
prices](https://www.kff.org/health-costs/issue-brief/what-we-know-about-provider-consolidation/) than
hospitals in markets with several competitors.

**In the Order, the President:**

-   **Underscores that hospital mergers can be harmful** to patients and
    encourages the Justice Department and FTC to review and revise their
    merger guidelines to ensure patients are not harmed by such mergers.
-   Directs HHS to **support existing hospital price transparency rules
    and to finish implementing bipartisan federal legislation to address
    surprise hospital billing**.

***<u>Health Insurance</u>*:** Consolidation in the health insurance
industry has meant that many consumers have [little
choice](https://www.kff.org/private-insurance/issue-brief/insurer-participation-on-the-aca-marketplaces-2014-2021/) when
it comes to selecting insurers. And even when there is some choice,
comparison shopping is hard because plans offered on the exchanges are
complicated—with different services covered or different deductibles.  
  
**In the Order, the President:**

-   Directs HHS to **standardize plan options in the National Health
    Insurance Marketplace so people can comparison shop** more easily.

**<u>Transportation</u>**

In the transportation sector, multiple industries are now dominated by
large corporations—air travel, rail, and shipping.

**Airlines: **The top four commercial airlines control
nearly [two-thirds](https://www.statista.com/statistics/250577/domestic-market-share-of-leading-us-airlines/) of
the domestic market. Reduced competition contributes to increasing fees
like baggage and cancellation fees. These fees are often [raised in
lockstep](https://www.businessinsider.com/american-delta-united-all-raise-checked-baggage-fees-2018-9),
demonstrating a lack of meaningful competitive pressure, and are [often
hidden](https://www.nerdwallet.com/article/travel/which-airlines-have-the-best-and-worst-fees) from
consumers at the point of purchase. The top ten airlines
collected [$35.2
billion](https://www.aviationpros.com/airlines/press-release/21115541/with-travel-season-ahead-senator-markey-and-reps-cohen-and-garcia-reintroduce-legislation-to-stop-rising-airline-fees) in
ancillary fees in 2018, up from just $1.2 billion in 2007. Inadequate
competition also reduces incentives to provide good service. For
example, the Department of Transportation (DOT) estimates that airlines
were late delivering [at
least](https://www.transportation.gov/sites/dot.gov/files/2020-02/February%202020%20ATCR.pdf) 2.3
million checked bags in 2019. 

**In the Order, the President:**

-   Directs the DOT to consider issuing** clear rules requiring the
    refund of fees when baggage is delayed or when service isn’t
    actually provided**—like when the plane’s WiFi or in-flight
    entertainment system is broken.
-   Directs the DOT to consider issuing **rules that require baggage,
    change, and cancellation fees to be clearly disclosed** to the
    customer.

***<u>Rail</u>*:** In 1980, there were [33 “Class I” freight
railroads](https://www.ams.usda.gov/sites/default/files/media/Railroad%20Concentration%2C%20Market%20Shares%2C%20and%20Rates.pdf),
compared to just seven today, and four major rail companies now dominate
their respective geographic regions. Freight railroads that own the
tracks can privilege their own freight traffic—making it harder for
passenger trains to have on-time service—and can overcharge other
companies’ freight cars.

**In the Order, the President:**

-   Encourages the Surface Transportation Board to **require railroad
    track owners to provide rights of way to passenger rail **and to
    strengthen their obligations to **treat other freight companies
    fairly**.

***<u>Shipping</u>*:** In maritime shipping, the global marketplace has
rapidly consolidated. In 2000, the largest 10 shipping companies
controlled [51%](https://www.joc.com/maritime-news/container-lines/new-oligopoly-container-shipping_20190704.html) of
the market. Today, it is more than 80%, leaving domestic manufacturers
who need to export goods at these large foreign companies’ mercy. This
has let powerful container shippers charge exporters exorbitant fees for
time their freight was sitting waiting to be loaded or unloaded. These
fees, called “detention and demurrage charges,” can add up to [hundreds
of
thousands](https://www.joc.com/regulation-policy/us-detention-demurrage-probes-initial-focus-carriers-terminals_20180402.html) of
dollars.

**In the Order, the President:**

-   Encourages the Federal Maritime Commission to **ensure vigorous
    enforcement against shippers charging American exporters exorbitant
    charges**.

**<span style="text-decoration: underline">Agriculture</span>**

Over the past few decades, key agricultural markets have become more
concentrated and less competitive. The markets for seeds, equipment,
feed, and fertilizer are now dominated by just a few large companies,
meaning family farmers and ranchers now have to pay more for
these [inputs](https://www.americanprogress.org/issues/economy/reports/2019/05/07/469385/fair-deal-farmers/). For
example, just [four
companies](https://civileats.com/2019/01/11/the-sobering-details-behind-the-latest-seed-monopoly-chart/) control
most of the world’s seeds, and corn seed prices have gone up as much
as [30](https://www.agri-pulse.com/ext/resources/pdfs/m/e/r/p/t/Merger_Paper_Full_manuscript.pdf)%
annually.

Consolidation also limits farmers’ and ranchers’ options for selling
their products. That means they
get [less](https://www.nytimes.com/2021/06/23/business/beef-prices.html) when
they sell their produce and meat—even as [prices
rise](https://www.ers.usda.gov/data-products/meat-price-spreads/) at the
grocery store. For example, four large meat-packing companies dominate
over [80](https://www.americanprogress.org/issues/economy/reports/2019/05/07/469385/fair-deal-farmers/)%
of the beef market and, over the last five years, farmers’ share of the
price of beef has dropped by more than
a [quarter](https://www.ers.usda.gov/data-products/meat-price-spreads/)—from
51.5% to 37.3%—while the price of beef has risen.

Overall, farmers’ and ranchers’ share of each dollar spent on food has
been [declining](https://data.ers.usda.gov/reports.aspx?ID=17885&reportPath=/FoodDollar/Real)
for decades. In short, family farmers and ranchers are getting less,
consumers are paying more, and the big conglomerates in the middle are
taking the difference.

Meanwhile, the law designed to combat these abuses—the Packers and
Stockyards Act—was systematically weakened by the Trump Administration
Department of Agriculture (USDA).

American farmers and ranchers are also getting squeezed by foreign
corporations importing meat from overseas with labels that mislead
customers about its origin. Under current labeling rules, meat can be
labeled “Product of USA” if it is only processed here—including when
meat is raised overseas and then merely processed into cuts of meat
here. For example, [most grass-fed beef labeled “Product of
USA”](https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2019-05-23/most-grass-fed-beef-labeled-product-of-u-s-a-is-imported) is
actually imported. That makes it hard or impossible for consumers to
know where their food comes from and to choose to support American
farmers and ranchers.

Corporate consolidation even affects farmers’ ability to repair their
own equipment or to use independent repair shops. Powerful equipment
manufacturers—such as tractor manufacturers—use proprietary repair
tools, software, and diagnostics to prevent third-parties from
performing repairs. For example, when certain tractors detect a failure,
they cease to operate until a dealer unlocks them. That forcers farmers
to pay dealer rates for repairs that they could have made themselves, or
that an independent repair shop could have done more cheaply.

**In the Order, the President:**

-   Directs USDA to consider issuing **new rules under the Packers and
    Stockyards Act making it easier for farmers to bring and win claims,
    stopping chicken processors from exploiting and underpaying chicken
    farmers, and adopting anti-retaliation protections** for farmers who
    speak out about bad practices.
-   Directs USDA to consider issuing **new rules defining when meat can
    bear “Product of USA” labels, so that consumers have accurate,
    transparent labels that enable them to choose products made here.**
-   Directs USDA to develop a plan to **increase opportunities for
    farmers to access markets and receive a fair return, including
    supporting alternative food distribution systems like farmers
    markets and developing standards and labels** so that consumers can
    choose to buy products that treat farmers fairly.
-   Encourages the FTC to **limit powerful equipment manufacturers from
    restricting people’s ability to use independent repair shops or do
    DIY repairs—such as when tractor companies block farmers from
    repairing their own tractors**.

**<u>Internet Service</u>**

The Order tackles four issues that limit competition, raise prices, and
reduce choices for internet service.

***<u>Lack of competition among broadband providers</u>*: **More
than[200
million](https://broadbandmap.fcc.gov/#/area-summary?version=jun2020&type=nation&geoid=0&tech=acfw&speed=25_3&vlat=38.09830512359795&vlon=-97.57983008590088&vzoom=2.779496173169071) U.S.
residents live in an area with only one or two reliable high-speed
internet providers, leading to prices as much as [*five times
higher*](https://poseidon01.ssrn.com/delivery.php?ID=153105123123122096085069108028083069015084039027010010113122030072017096030080000111022041026045103029042116102105092074116105009011053002088124092068090068124020088055017094105076107024069120007103094103025106024007073088080121124071098084103125111021&EXT=pdf&INDEX=TRUE) in
these markets than in markets with more options. A related problem is
landlords and internet service providers entering [exclusivity deals or
collusive
arrangements](https://www.newamerica.org/oti/reports/cost-connectivity-2020/us-policy-recommendations/) that
leave tenants with only one option. This impacts low-income and
marginalized neighborhoods, because landlord-ISP arrangements can
effectively block out broadband infrastructure expansion by new
providers.

**In the Order, the President encourages the FCC to:**

-   **Prevent ISPs from making deals with landlords that limit tenants’
    choices.**

**Lack of price transparency**: Even where consumers have options,
comparison shopping is hard. According to the Federal Communications
Commission (FCC), actual prices paid for broadband services can
be [40%](https://docs.fcc.gov/public/attachments/DOC-338708A1.pdf)
higher than advertised. During the Obama-Biden Administration, the FCC
began [developing](https://www.newamerica.org/oti/press-releases/oti-applauds-bill-to-create-a-broadband-nutrition-label/) a
“Broadband Nutrition Label”—a simple label that provides basic
information about the internet service offered so people can compare
options. The Trump Administration FCC abandoned those plans.  
  
**In the Order, the President encourages the FCC to:**

-   **Revive the “**[**Broadband Nutrition
    Label**](https://cdn1.vox-cdn.com/uploads/chorus_asset/file/6286175/BroadbandLabel.0.jpg)**”** and **require
    providers to report prices and subscription rates** to the FCC.

***<u>High termination fees</u>*:** If a consumer does find a better
internet service deal, they may be unable to actually switch because of
high early termination fees—on average
nearly [$200](https://www.newamerica.org/oti/reports/cost-connectivity-2020/focus-on-the-fees/)—charged
by internet providers.  
**In the Order, the President encourages the FCC to:**

-   **Limit excessive early termination fees.**

***<u>Companies discriminatorily slowing down internet
access</u>*:** Big providers can use their power to discriminatorily
block or slow down online services. The Obama-Biden Administration’s FCC
adopted “Net Neutrality” rules that required these companies to treat
all internet services equally, but this
was [undone](https://www.nytimes.com/2018/06/11/technology/net-neutrality-repeal.html) in
2017.

**In the Order, the President encourages the FCC to:**

-   **Restore Net Neutrality rules** undone by the prior administration.

**<u>Technology</u>**

The Order tackles three areas in which dominant tech firms are
undermining competition and reducing innovation:

***<u>Big Tech platforms purchasing would-be competitors</u>*:** Over
the past ten years, the largest tech platforms have acquired hundreds of
companies—including alleged “[killer
acquisitions](https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=3241707)”
meant to shut down a potential competitive threat. Too often, federal
agencies have not blocked, conditioned, or, in some cases, meaningfully
examined these acquisitions.  
  
**In the Order, the President:**

-   Announces an Administration policy of **greater scrutiny of
    mergers**, especially by dominant internet platforms, with
    particular attention to the acquisition of nascent competitors,
    serial mergers, the accumulation of data, competition by “free”
    products, and the effect on user privacy.

***<u>Big Tech platforms gathering too much personal
information</u>*: **Many of the large platforms’ business models have
depended on the accumulation of extraordinary amounts of sensitive
personal information and related data.  
**In the Order, the President:**

-   Encourages the FTC to establish **rules on surveillance and the
    accumulation of data.**

***<u>Big Tech platforms unfairly competing with small
businesses</u>*: **The large platforms’ power gives them unfair
opportunities to get a leg up on the small businesses that rely on them
to reach customers. For example, companies that run [dominant online
retail
marketplaces](https://judiciary.house.gov/uploadedfiles/competition_in_digital_markets.pdf?utm_campaign=4493-519) can
see how small businesses’ products sell and then use the data to launch
their own competing products. Because they run the platform, they can
also display their own copycat products more prominently than the small
businesses’ products.  
**In the Order, the President:**

-   Encourages the FTC to establish **rules barring unfair methods of
    competition on internet marketplaces.**

***<u>Cell phone manufacturers and others blocking out independent
repair shops</u>*:** Tech and other companies impose restrictions on
self and third-party repairs, making repairs [more costly and
time-consuming](https://www.vox.com/the-goods/2019/7/3/18761691/right-to-repair-computers-phones-car-mechanics-apple),
such as
by [restricting](https://www.vice.com/en/article/ypkqxw/do-you-know-anything-about-apples-authorized-service-provider-program) the
distribution of parts, diagnostics, and repair tools.

**In the Order, the President:**

-   Encourages the FTC to issue **rules against anticompetitive
    restrictions on using independent repair shops or doing DIY
    repairs** of your own devices and equipment.

**<u>Banking and Consumer Finance</u>**

Over the past four decades, the United States has lost 70% of the banks
it once had, with
around [10,000](https://fred.stlouisfed.org/series/USNUM) bank closures.
Communities of color are disproportionately affected,
with [25%](https://ncrc.org/wp-content/uploads/2017/05/NCRC_Branch_Deserts_Research_Memo_050517_2.pdf) of
all rural closures in majority-minority census tracts. Many of these
closures are
the [product](https://pubs.aeaweb.org/doi/pdfplus/10.1257/app.20170543) of
mergers and acquisitions. Though subject to federal review, federal
agencies have not formally denied a bank merger application in more
than [15
years](https://digitalcommons.law.yale.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1557&context=yjreg).  
  
Excessive consolidation raises costs for consumers, restricts credit for
small businesses, and harms low-income communities. Branch closures can
reduce the amount of small business lending by
about [10%](http://faculty.haas.berkeley.edu/hqn/nguyen_aej_201901.pdf) and
leads to [higher interest
rates](https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/full/10.1111/j.1540-6261.2006.00847.x).
Even where a customer has multiple options, it is hard to switch banks
partly because customers cannot easily take their financial transaction
history data to a new bank. That increases
the [cost](https://www.americanprogress.org/issues/economy/reports/2021/02/26/496444/switching-responsible-banking/) of
the new bank extending you credit.

**In the Order, the President:**

-   Encourages DOJ and the agencies responsible for banking (the Federal
    Reserve, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, and the Office
    of the Comptroller of the Currency) to **update guidelines on
    banking mergers to provide more robust scrutiny** **of mergers**.
-   Encourages the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) to
    issue **rules allowing customers to download their banking
    data** and take it with them.

\###
