---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-07-29'
modified_time: 2021-07-29 14:28:32-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/07/29/fact-sheet-president-biden-to-announce-new-actions-to-get-more-americans-vaccinated-and-slow-the-spread-of-the-delta-variant/
published_time: 2021-07-29 16:00:00-04:00
title: 'FACT SHEET: President Biden to Announce New Actions to Get More Americans
  Vaccinated and Slow the Spread of the Delta Variant'
---
 
Six months into the Biden Administration’s vaccination effort, 164
million Americans are fully vaccinated, including 80 percent of seniors
and more than 60 percent of adults. This is significant progress, and as
a result, the country and economy are in a stronger position than
January 2021.  
  
We are now faced with a much more transmissible strain of this virus—the
Delta variant. The good news is that we are prepared for this. We know
how to stop it: get more people vaccinated.  
  
Today, the President will announce additional efforts to do just
that—imposing requirements to protect our federal workforce and those
they serve, offering additional incentives for vaccination, and making
it even easier for people, especially young people, to get themselves
and their loved ones vaccinated.  
  
Today’s actions include:  
  
**Strengthening Safety Protocols for Federal Employees and Federal
Contractors. **Today, the President will announce that to help protect
workers and their communities, every federal government employee and
onsite contractor will be asked to attest to their vaccination status.
Anyone who does not attest to being fully vaccinated will be required to
wear a mask on the job no matter their geographic location, physically
distance from all other employees and visitors, comply with a weekly or
twice weekly screening testing requirement, and be subject to
restrictions on official travel.  
  
The federal government employs more than 4 million Americans, including
over 2 million in the federal civilian workforce, throughout our country
and across the world.  
  
These rules should not only apply to federal workers and onsite
contractors. President Biden is directing his team to take steps to
apply similar standards to all federal contractors. The Administration
will encourage employers across the private sector to follow this strong
model.  
  
**Protecting Those Who Serve Our Country.** Today, the President will
announce that he is directing the Department of Defense to look into how
and when they will add COVID-19 vaccination to the list of required
vaccinations for members of the military. This is particularly important
because our troops serve in places throughout the world—many where
vaccination rates are low and disease is prevalent.  
  
Earlier this week, like many health care employers across the country,
the Department of Veterans Affairs took the common-sense and important
step of requiring their health care providers and personnel to be fully
vaccinated against COVID-19. Too many veterans have already lost their
lives to this virus, and veterans and their families deserve nothing
less than us doing everything we can to protect their health. The public
health, health care, and medical community are unified in support of
these actions—on Monday, over 50 leading health care societies and
organizations called for all health care and long-term care employers to
require their workers to receive the COVID-19 vaccine.  
  
**Expanding Paid Leave to Get Families and Kids Vaccinated.** The
President will announce that small- and medium-sized businesses will now
be reimbursed for offering their employees paid leave to get their
family members, including their kids, vaccinated. In April, the
President announced that, thanks to the American Rescue Plan (ARP), the
federal government is fully reimbursing any small- or medium-sized
business that provides workers with paid time off to get vaccinated.
According to the Kaiser Family Foundation, by the end of June, half of
all workers in America had access to paid time-off for vaccinations, and
75% of workers who were offered paid time-off for vaccinations from
their employer reported being vaccinated. The President will also call
on employers who have not offered paid time off to their employees for
vaccination to do so.  
**   
Calling on State and Local Governments to Offer $100 to Get
Vaccinated. **Today, the President will call on states, territories, and
local governments to do more to incentivize vaccination, including
offering $100 to those who get vaccinated. Throughout America’s
vaccination efforts, we have seen that financial incentives serve as a
motivating factor for some people to get vaccinated. When the grocery
store Kroger started offering $100 to their associates to get
vaccinated, it saw vaccination rates increase from 50% to 75%. States
like New Mexico, Ohio, and Colorado have piloted $100 incentive programs
that have also helped move the dial on vaccinations. According to
research from the University of California, Los Angeles, roughly
one-third of unvaccinated individuals said a cash payment would make
them more likely to get a shot. The American Rescue Plan (ARP) provided
states, territories, and localities resources that can be used to offer
incentives to increase vaccination rates, and today, the President will
call on every state, territory, and local government to use this ARP
funding to provide $100 to anyone who gets vaccinated.  
  
**Increasing Vaccinations Among Adolescents as Kids Go Back to
School. **Today, the President will, in an effort to get more kids 12
and older vaccinated, call on school districts nationwide to host at
least one pop-up vaccination clinic over the coming weeks. And, the
Administration is directing pharmacies in the federal pharmacy program
to prioritize this and to work with school districts across the country
to host vaccination clinics at schools and colleges. In March, the Biden
Administration prioritized K-12 educators, school staff, and child care
workers for vaccinations. This directive worked: Today, almost 90% of
educators and school staff are vaccinated. The President believes that
every student—no matter their zip code—should have an easy and
accessible way to get vaccinated. Vaccination is our leading public
health strategy to end the COVID-19 pandemic—and it is our best way to
prevent COVID outbreaks before they happen, so that schools and colleges
can return to safe, in-person instruction all year long.  
 

\###
