---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-07-22'
modified_time: 2021-07-22 12:04:29-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/07/22/fact-sheet-how-the-build-back-better-plan-will-create-a-better-future-for-young-americans/
published_time: 2021-07-22 12:04:28-04:00
title: "FACT SHEET: How the Build Back Better Plan Will Create a Better Future for\
  \ Young\_Americans"
---
 
Although there has been a [strong
economic](https://fred.stlouisfed.org/series/PAYEMS%20https:/fred.stlouisfed.org/series/GDP)
recovery under President Biden, young adults have now lived through two
historic economic downturns. In 2008, many young workers [without a
college degree lost their
jobs](https://www.bls.gov/opub/ted/2009/mar/wk5/art03.htm?view_full). In
2020, at the height of the pandemic, the [highest proportion of young
adults between the ages of 18 and 29 were living at home with their
parents](https://www.pewresearch.org/fact-tank/2020/09/04/a-majority-of-young-adults-in-the-u-s-live-with-their-parents-for-the-first-time-since-the-great-depression/)
since the Great Depression and unemployment for young adults reached a
[peak of 24.4
percent](https://www.epi.org/publication/young-workers-covid-recession/),
and was even higher for young adults of color. The economic events of
the past 15 years have made the [path to the middle class
difficult](https://www.epi.org/publication/young-workers-covid-recession/)
for many young Americans.

Young adults are facing additional challenges on their path to economic
security, including barriers to home ownership, unaffordable or hard to
find child care, and the existential threat of climate change. Home
ownership [rates are at a historic low for young
adults](https://www.newamerica.org/millennials/reports/emerging-millennial-wealth-gap/homeownership-and-living-arrangements-among-millennials-new-sources-of-wealth-inequality-and-what-to-do-about-it/).
Child care for two children costs [at least 50 percent of the median
millennial’s salary](https://www.childcareaware.org/millennial-map/) in
47 states, as well as in the District of Columbia. And the climate
crisis poses [an urgent threat](https://climate.nasa.gov/effects/) to
our environment, our health, our communities, our national security, and
our economy.

President Biden’s Build Back Better plan is a once-in-a-generation
investment that responds to the historic challenges facing the country,
including young Americans. President Biden knows that it is not enough
to restore us to where we were prior to the pandemic – we need to build
back better. That means making it easier for American families to break
into the middle class, and easier to stay in the middle class.  It means
reducing the cost of things that working people depend on. And, he knows
that, in order to secure a brighter, more equitable future, we need to
support young adults, many of whom are dealing with the long-term
consequences of two economic downturns.

**Education and Workforce Opportunities**

Thirteen years of school is [no longer
enough](https://cew.georgetown.edu/cew-reports/americas-divided-recovery/)
to be prepared for the jobs of today’s economy. At the same time, the
cost of education beyond high school has become unaffordable for too
many students across the country. The [value of Pell
Grants](https://www.nasfaa.org/issue_brief_double_pell) over the last
nearly 50 years has fallen from covering more than 75 percent of the
cost of a four-year degree at a public university to under 30 percent,
forcing millions of low-income students to take on debt. Additionally,
as more young Americans rejoin the workforce or seek out new
opportunities in a changing economy, [there is a greater need for skills
development
opportunities](https://www.brookings.edu/research/building-americas-job-skills-with-effective-workforce-programs-a-training-strategy-to-raise-wages-and-increase-work-opportunities/)
for workers of all kinds that lead to high-quality jobs. To expand
education and workforce opportunities, the Build Back Better plan will:

-   **Ensure that postsecondary education is accessible and affordable
    for young adults, and that students who enroll are ultimately
    successful:** Millennials have grown up in and graduated into an
    economy [where the majority of jobs created between 2010 and 2016
    require some education beyond high
    school](https://cew.georgetown.edu/cew-reports/americas-divided-recovery/).
    Because of this, they are the [most educated
    generation](https://youngamericans.berkeley.edu/2020/01/29/college-attainment/),
    but have faced challenges along the way. While more young adults
    from [low-income backgrounds are enrolling in
    college,](https://nces.ed.gov/programs/coe/pdf/Indicator_CPA/coe_cpa_2018_05.pdf)
    the Pell Grant has not kept up with the increase in cost. This has
    contributed to an increasing reliance on debt. The Build Back Better
    plan makes an education beyond high school more affordable and
    accessible by providing two years of free community college and by
    making college more affordable for low- and middle-income students
    at Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs), Tribal
    Colleges and Universities (TCUs), and institutions such as
    Hispanic-serving institutions, Asian American and Native American
    Pacific Islander-serving institutions, and other minority-serving
    institutions (MSIs). This is bolstered by increasing the maximum
    Pell Grant by nearly $1,500 to help all eligible low-income students
    pay for a two- or four-year degree. Finally, President Biden
    recognizes that access is not enough – students need support to
    obtain a credential or degree. The Build Back Better plan invests in
    evidence-based strategies to strengthen completion and retention
    rates at community colleges and institutions that serve students
    from our most disadvantaged communities.

<!-- -->

-   **Build the capacity of the existing workforce development
    systems:** The United States has underinvested in the workforce
    development system for decades. In 2018, for example, we spent [less
    than one
    quarter](https://data.oecd.org/socialexp/public-spending-on-labour-markets.htm)
    of the average that other advanced economies spend on workforce and
    labor market programs as a share of GDP. This lack of investment
    [impacts](https://obamawhitehouse.archives.gov/sites/default/files/page/files/20161220_active_labor_market_policies_issue_brief_cea.pdf)
    all of us: better educated workers create spillover effects for
    other workers and lack of employment has negative social impacts on
    communities. President Biden is calling on Congress significantly
    increase investments in American workforce development
    infrastructure and worker protection. This includes registered
    apprenticeships and pre-apprenticeships, creating one to two million
    new registered apprenticeships slots, and strengthening the pipeline
    for more women and people of color to access these opportunities
    through successful pre-apprenticeship programs such as the Women in
    Apprenticeships in Non-Traditional Occupations.  It also invests in
    sector-based training programs, which are comprehensive training
    programs that include wraparound services, paired with high-quality
    training and effective partnerships between educational
    institutions, unions, and employers — guaranteeing placement in a
    good quality, in-demand job. The sector-based training investments
    will provide millions of workers –particularly young workers, women
    and workers of color –with pathways into high job-quality sectors
    including, clean energy, manufacturing and infrastructure. This will
    ensure these underserved groups have greater access to new
    infrastructure jobs.

**Help for Young Adults Who Care for Their Families**

The hope of a middle-class life has gotten further and further out of
reach for too many American families, as the costs of raising children –
from child care to [taking leave
time](https://www.americanprogress.org/issues/women/news/2021/02/05/495504/quick-facts-paid-family-medical-leave/)
to care for a child or family member – have grown. The cost of child
care is now [more than in-state tuition at public four-year
colleges](https://www.epi.org/child-care-costs-in-the-united-states/) in
over half of the country. Difficulty in finding high-quality, affordable
child care and lack of access to preschools leads some parents to drop
out of the labor force entirely, some to reduce their work hours, and
others to turn down a promotion. When a parent drops out of the
workforce, reduces work hours, or takes a lower-paying job early in
their careers, they can suffer lifetime consequences on earnings,
savings, and retirement. Similarly, high costs and increasing shortages
of care for disabled and elderly people leave many to rely on unpaid
caregiving – [nearly a quarter of millennials are providing care for a
family
member](https://press.aarp.org/2020-5-14-Caregiving-in-the-US-Report).
To help young adults care for their families, the Build Back Better plan
will:

-   **Create free universal pre-K:** President Biden is calling for a
    national partnership with states to offer free, high-quality,
    accessible, and inclusive preschool to all three-and four-year-olds,
    benefitting five million children and saving the average family
    $13,000 when fully implemented. This historic investment in
    America’s future will prioritize high-need areas and enable
    communities and families to choose the settings that work best for
    them, including schools, child care centers, family child care
    providers, Head Start, and other community-based providers. The
    President’s plan will also ensure that all publicly-funded preschool
    is high-quality, with low student-to-teacher ratios, developmentally
    appropriate curriculum, and supportive classroom environments that
    are inclusive for all students.

<!-- -->

-   **Guarantee access to high-quality, affordable child care for low-
    and middle-income families and offer universal free preschool to all
    three- and four-year old children.**  Families will pay only a
    portion of their income based on a sliding scale. For the most
    hard-pressed working families, child care costs for their young
    children would be fully covered, and families earning up to 1.5
    times their state’s median income will pay no more than 7 percent of
    their income for all children under age five. When fully
    implemented, this plan will save the average family $14,800 each
    year, help parents better manage work and care, and produce lifetime
    benefits for children.  The President’s plan would also make
    permanent the dramatic expansion of the Child and Dependent Care Tax
    Credit (CDCTC) enacted in the American Rescue Plan. With this
    expanded credit, families can receive up to half of what they spend
    on child care for children under age 13, up to a total of $4,000 for
    one child or $8,000 for two or more children.

<!-- -->

-   **Create a national comprehensive paid family and medical leave
    program**. The program will ensure workers receive partial wage
    replacement to take time to bond with a new child, care for a
    seriously ill loved one, deal with a loved one’s military
    deployment, find safety from sexual assault, stalking, or domestic
    violence, heal from their own serious illness, or take time to deal
    with the death of a loved one. It will guarantee 12 weeks of paid
    parental, family, and personal illness/safe leave by year 10 of the
    program, and also ensure workers get three days of bereavement leave
    per year starting in year one. The program will provide workers up
    to $4,000 a month, with a minimum of two-thirds of average weekly
    wages replaced, rising to 80 percent for the lowest wage workers.
    Additionally, the plan has an inclusive definition of family,
    ensuring workers can care for and be cared by a loved one who is not
    related by blood.

<!-- -->

-   **Significantly expand the Child Tax Credit and deliver it
    monthly**. The Build Back Better proposal would extend the Child Tax
    Credit (CTC) expansion first enacted in the American Rescue Plan
    from $2,000 to $3,000 per child six years-old and above, and to
    $3,600 per child under six. Parents can use this tax credit on
    everything from diapers to putting more food on the table to paying
    the rent or mortgage. For a family with two parents who earn a
    combined $100,000 per year and have two children under six, the
    Child Tax Credit expansion means the family’s credit would go from
    $4,000 total to $7,200 total, an additional $3,200 per year in tax
    relief. For a family with two parents who earn a combined $24,000
    per year and have two children under six, the expansion means even
    more; they would see roughly an additional $4,400 in tax relief
    because the full credit was not previously available to them. The
    Build Back Better proposal makes the credit fully refundable on a
    permanent basis, so that low-income families—the families that need
    the credit the most—can benefit from the full tax credit. An
    [estimated 66 million
    children](https://www.cbpp.org/research/federal-tax/american-rescue-plan-act-includes-critical-expansions-of-child-tax-credit-and)
    (90 percent) are already poised to benefit from the expanded tax
    credit, including over 9 million Black children and over 17 million
    Latino children.

**Housing Affordability and Access**

Homeownership remains stubbornly out of reach for young Americans due to
interrelated issues of rising costs and scarcity of supply. Millennial
renters
[report](https://www.apartmentlist.com/research/millennial-homeownership-2021)
declining optimism about the prospect of homeownership and cite
affordability as their greatest concern. But even for the majority of
millennials who aspire to own a home, high rental costs, plus other
expenses that many carry, make it difficult to save up money to buy a
home. A recent
[survey](https://www.apartmentlist.com/research/millennial-homeownership-2021)
of millennial renters showed that 63% of renters planning to buy a home
had no down payment savings. Whether they seek to own a home or not, a
lack of housing supply drives up housing costs for young renters and
homeowners alike. To help renters and homeowners, the Build Back Better
plan will:

-   **Expand access to federal subsidies that will enable the
    construction or rehabilitation of more than 1 million affordable
    rental housing units.** President Biden’s Build Back Better Plan
    would bolster funding for successful housing subsidy programs to
    produce and preserve housing that is affordable for very- and
    extremely-low income renters. This includes investments in the HOME
    Investment Partnerships program, the Housing Trust Fund, and the
    Capital Magnet Fund. The President is also proposing authorizing $2
    billion in new project-based rental assistance agreements for the
    first time in more than 20 years to help even more working families
    access affordable housing. Together, these investments will produce,
    preserve, and retrofit more than a million affordable rental housing
    units in big cities and small towns across the country.

<!-- -->

-   **Build and rehabilitate more than 500,000 homes for low- and
    middle-income homebuyers.** President Biden is calling on Congress
    to take immediate steps to spur the construction and rehabilitation
    of homes for underserved communities. Specifically, he is calling on
    Congress to pass the innovative, bipartisan Neighborhood Homes
    Investment Act (NHIA). Offering $20 billion worth of NHIA tax
    credits over the next five years will result in approximately
    500,000 homes built or rehabilitated, creating a pathway for more
    families to buy a home and start building wealth.

<!-- -->

-   **Incentivize the removal of exclusionary zoning and harmful land
    use policies**. For decades, exclusionary zoning laws – like minimum
    lot sizes, mandatory parking requirements, and prohibitions on
    multifamily housing – have inflated housing and construction costs
    and locked families out of areas with more opportunities. President
    Biden’s plan seeks to help jurisdictions reduce barriers to
    producing affordable housing and expand housing choices for people
    with low or moderate incomes. The Build Back Better Plan will create
    an incentive program that awards flexible and attractive funding to
    jurisdictions that take concrete steps to reduce barriers to
    affordable housing production.

**Climate Crisis**

The climate crisis is one of the greatest threats America and the global
community face. And it is this younger generation that will inherit the
worst impacts of this crisis. That is why on Day 1, President Biden
mobilized the whole of government to tackle the climate crisis, rejoined
the landmark Paris Agreement, and set an ambitious and achievable goal
of cutting emissions by 50-52% below 2005 levels by 2030. To meet this
goal, this Build Back Better plan will make once-in-a-generation
investments in clean energy and infrastructure that can help tackle the
climate crisis and advance environmental justice in communities across
the country. To address the climate crisis for young Americans, the
Build Back Better plan will:

-   **Invest in clean energy manufacturing right here in America.** The
    plan will provide tax cuts for businesses and consumers to deploy
    clean energy technology like renewables, battery storage, and
    electric vehicles. These along with investments for retooling
    factories and growing supply chains will spur demand for more
    domestic manufacturing. This will not only grow our capacity to
    build these technologies here in America, but also create millions
    of good-quality jobs when paired with strong labor standards and a
    free and fair choice to join a union and bargain collectively. When
    paired with an Energy Efficiency and Clean Electricity Standard
    (EECES), it will help get America on track to meet the goal of 100
    percent carbon pollution-free electricity by 2035 and zero net
    emissions economy-wide by 2050.

<!-- -->

-   **Create a new Civilian Climate Corps.** In 1933 President Roosevelt
    established the Civilian Conservation Corps, a popular New Deal
    program that transformed the American landscape and put unemployed
    Americans back to work. During the 9 years of the program’s
    existence, more than three million young men ages 18-28 served for
    up to two years earning $30 per month – the equivalent of $600 per
    month in today’s economy – in addition to meals and lodging. Today
    there is an opportunity to put a new generation of climate,
    conservation, and resilience workers to work – paid a living wage
    and provided a pathway to public service or good-paying union jobs.
    The plan will enlist a new, diverse generation of Americans to work
    conserving our public lands and waters, bolstering community
    resilience, and advancing environmental justice – all while
    maximizing the creation of accessible training opportunities.

<!-- -->

-   **Invest in Clean Energy and Energy Efficiency Block Grants to spur
    thousands of local projects**. This includes installing community
    solar in disadvantaged communities, replacing street lights with LED
    bulbs manufactured in America, and making upgrades to a community
    center to cut its electricity bills—that prioritize worker
    empowerment and advance environmental justice.  These block grants
    will support states and local governments that are stepping up to
    lead on climate—by implementing policy measures that accelerate
    progress toward clean energy goals

\###
