---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-07-23'
modified_time: 2021-07-22 21:20:49-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/07/23/fact-sheet-biden-administration-announces-additional-actions-to-prevent-foreclosures/
published_time: 2021-07-23 06:00:00-04:00
title: "Fact Sheet: Biden Administration Announces Additional Actions to Prevent\_\
  Foreclosures"
---
 
Across America, a strong economic recovery is taking hold. Since
President Biden took office, more than 3 million jobs have been
created—600,000 a month on average. The American Rescue Plan is working,
jumpstarting the economy and getting Americans back to work. And
critically, over two-thirds of adults are vaccinated, with our most
vulnerable populations protected at even higher rates. In every state,
jobs are up and American workers and families are looking ahead to a
brighter future.  
  
Shortly after taking office, the Biden-Harris Administration extended
the foreclosure moratorium and mortgage forbearance enrollment period
for homeowners with government-backed mortgages to provide relief to
struggling homeowners. On June 24<sup>th</sup>, the Administration
extended the foreclosure moratorium for a final, additional month until
July 31, 2021 and the forbearance enrollment window through September
30, 2021, and provided up to three months of additional forbearance for
certain borrowers. These actions were taken by three federal agencies
that back mortgages – the Department of Housing and Urban Development
(HUD), Department of Veterans Affairs (VA), and Department of
Agriculture (USDA). The Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA) provided
similar relief for mortgages backed by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.  
  
This helped ensure that American families did not lose their homes
during the pandemic. Those policies prevented foreclosures and allowed
some homeowners with government-backed loans to pause their mortgage
payments for up to eighteen months. Nearly 7.2 million American
households took advantage of forbearance options.  
  
Thanks in part to President Biden’s strategy to get Americans vaccinated
and the economy back on track, the number of American households in
forbearance has fallen by more than 50% from its pandemic peak. Today,
approximately 1.75 million Americans remain in forbearance. In order to
ensure a stable and equitable recovery from the disruptions of the
COVID-19 pandemic and prepare for homeowners to exit mortgage
forbearance, the Biden-Harris Administration is taking action to keep
Americans in their homes and support a return to a more stable housing
market.    
  
Specifically, the Biden-Harris Administration is:  
  
*Offering Borrowers Loan Modifications and Payment Reductions that Will
Help Them Stay in Their Homes*  
  
With over 160 million Americans fully vaccinated and every American
offered the opportunity to get vaccinated, along with an improving
economy and more Americans getting back to work, many homeowners exiting
mortgage forbearance are returning to their pre-pandemic earnings and
are no longer facing financial hardship associated with the pandemic.
For homeowners who can resume their pre-pandemic monthly mortgage
payment and where agencies have the authority, agencies will continue
requiring mortgage servicers to offer options that allow borrowers to
move missed payments to the end of the mortgage at no additional cost to
the borrower.  
  
However, many homeowners will need deeper assistance due to
pandemic-related income loss. For example, due to the economic crisis
caused by the pandemic, some homeowners are earning less than they were
before the pandemic. Homeowners with government-backed mortgages that
have been negatively impacted by the pandemic will now receive enhanced
assistance, especially if they are looking for work, re-training, having
trouble catching up on back taxes and insurance, or are continuing to
experience hardship for another reason. The new steps the Department of
Housing and Urban Development (HUD), Department of Agriculture (USDA),
and Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) are announcing will aim to
provide homeowners with a roughly 25% reduction in borrowers’ monthly
principal and interest (P&I) payments to ensure they can afford to
remain in their homes and build equity long-term. This brings options
for homeowners with mortgages backed by HUD, USDA, and VA closer in
alignment with options for homeowners with mortgages backed by Fannie
Mae and Freddie Mac.  
  
Specifically, where agencies have the authority and depending on
homeowners’ financial conditions, agencies will require or encourage
mortgage servicers to offer borrowers new payment reduction options to
help them remain in their home.

-   **<u>HUD: </u>**The Federal Housing Administration (FHA) announced
    enhanced loss mitigation tools and simplified a COVID-19 Recovery
    Modification to help homeowners with FHA-insured mortgages who have
    been financially impacted by the COVID-19 pandemic. These options
    will offer borrowers appropriate relief while preserving flexibility
    for future crises. FHA will require mortgage servicers to offer a no
    cost option to eligible homeowners who can resume their current
    mortgage payments. For all borrowers that cannot resume their
    monthly mortgage, HUD will enhance servicers’ ability to provide all
    eligible borrowers with a 25% P&I reduction. Based on recent
    analyses, the Administration believes that the additional payment
    reduction offered to struggling borrowers will result in fewer
    foreclosures. To achieve those goals, HUD will implement the
    following options over the next few months:  
      
    **COVID-19 Recovery Standalone Partial Claim: **For homeowners who
    can resume their current mortgage payments, HUD will provide
    borrowers with an option to continue these payments by offering a
    zero interest, subordinate lien (also known as a partial claim) that
    is repaid when the mortgage insurance or mortgage terminates, such
    as upon sale or refinance;  
      
    **COVID-19 Recovery Modification: **For homeowners who cannot resume
    making their current monthly mortgage payments, the COVID-19
    Recovery Modification extends the term of the mortgage to 360 months
    at market rate and targets reducing the borrowers’ monthly P&I
    portion of their monthly mortgage payment by 25 percent. This will
    achieve significant payment reduction for many struggling homeowners
    by extending the term of the mortgage at a low interest rate,
    combined with a partial claim, if partial claims are available.  

These options augment additional COVID protections HUD published last
month. These included the foreclosure moratorium extension, forbearance
enrollment extension, and the COVID-19 Advance Loan Modification: a
product that is directly mailed to eligible borrowers who can achieve a
25% reduction to the P&I of their monthly mortgage payment through a
30-year loan modification.  HUD believes that the additional payment
reduction will help more borrowers retain their homes, prevent future
re-defaults, help more low-income and underserved borrowers build wealth
through homeownership, and assist in the broader COVID-19 recovery.

-   **USDA:** The USDA COVID-19 Special Relief Measure provides new
    alternatives for borrowers to help them achieve up to a 20%
    reduction in their monthly P&I payments.  New options include an
    interest rate reduction, term extension and a mortgage recovery
    advance, which can help cover past due mortgage payments and related
    costs.  Borrowers will first be assessed for an interest rate
    reduction and if additional relief is still needed, the borrowers
    will be considered for a combination rate reduction and term
    extension. In cases where a combination of rate reduction and term
    extension is not enough to achieve a 20% payment reduction, a third
    option combining the rate reduction and term extension with a
    mortgage recovery advance will be used to reach the target
    payment.      
     
-   **<u>VA:</u>** VA’s new COVID-19 Refund Modification provides
    multiple tools to assist certain borrowers in achieving a 20%
    reduction in the dollar amount for monthly P&I mortgage payments. In
    some cases, even larger reductions are possible. One such tool is
    the new COVID-19 Refund option, where VA can purchase from the
    servicer a borrower’s COVID-19 arrearages and, if needed, additional
    amounts of loan principal (subject to an overall cap corresponding
    to 30% of the borrower’s unpaid principal balance as of the first
    day of the borrower’s COVID-19 forbearance). Similar to VA’s
    COVID-19 partial claim option, the COVID-19 Refund will be
    established as a junior lien, payable to VA at 0% interest. In
    addition, servicers can now achieve significant reductions in the
    dollar amount for monthly payments by modifying the loan and adding
    up to 120 months to the original maturity date (meaning the total
    repayment term can be up to 480 months).  
     
-   **<u>FHFA</u>**: HUD, USDA, and VA’s steps bring federal agency
    options closer in alignment with payment reduction and loan
    modification options for borrowers with Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac
    mortgages. FHFA’s existing COVID loss mitigation options provide
    servicers with homeownership retention tools for borrowers. The
    tools include a payment deferral option that allows borrowers to
    resume their pre-COVID monthly payment after deferring up to 18
    months of missed mortgage payments into a non-interest-bearing
    balloon. The missed payments do not have to be repaid until the
    homeowner sells or refinances the property. Borrowers requiring more
    significant help may receive a loan modification that targets up to
    a 20% reduction in their monthly mortgage payments. The Flex
    Modification (Flex) capitalizes all past due amounts, extends the
    mortgage up to 40 years and in some cases lowers the interest rate
    and provides for principal forbearance. 

**Additional Assistance**  
  
In addition to these new opportunities for borrowers, agencies across
the federal government are also taking other steps to support borrowers
as our economic and public health recovery continues.  

-   **<u>Homeowner Assistance Fund</u>**: In addition, the Homeowner
    Assistance Fund (HAF), a critical component of President Biden’s
    American Rescue Plan, provides $9.961 billion to states, D.C.,
    territories, and Tribes for relief to homeowners impacted by the
    COVID-19 economic crisis. These funds can be used for assistance
    with mortgage payments, homeowner’s insurance, utility payments, and
    other specified purposes – and homeowners can access these funds in
    addition to the payment reduction options discussed above. And they
    will be integrated into the payment reduction options outlined above
    – providing additional payment reduction to borrowers who need it
    and to borrowers whose mortgages are not backed by federal agencies.
-   **<u>Extended Term Option: </u>**Finally, the Government National
    Mortgage Association (Ginnie Mae) recently announced it is creating
    a new security product for modified loans that would provide
    government agencies the flexibility to extend mortgage terms to up
    to 40 years, if they choose to do so, for borrowers who are behind
    on their mortgages and would benefit from the monthly payment
    reduction associated with this option.  Ginnie Mae expects this
    extended term product will be available for use in late 2021.

*Giving Borrowers the Information They Need to Understand their
Options*  
  
**These new loan modification and payment reduction options will only
give borrowers the relief they need if borrowers have the information to
understand their options.**

-   Homeowners can
    visit [consumerfinance.gov/housing](http://www.consumerfinance.gov/housing) for
    up-to-date information on their relief options, protections, and key
    deadlines.
-   As federal agencies continue working to implement housing assistance
    for American families, CFPB offers this website as a one-stop shop
    for homeowners to learn about programs and resources that can help
    them stay in their homes by reducing the risk of eviction and
    foreclosure.

**Borrowers should contact their servicer or housing counselor as soon
as possible to learn more about the options available.**

-   Last month, HUD, VA, and USDA announced steps to ensure that no new
    foreclosures are filed on mortgages backed by those agencies until
    borrowers are reviewed for new and improved options to make their
    monthly payments more affordable.
-   In addition, FHFA will continue to work with Fannie Mae and Freddie
    Mac to ensure that borrowers are evaluated for home retention
    solutions prior to any referral to foreclosure.
-   The CFPB finalized a mortgage servicing rule that requires most
    servicers to meet temporary procedural safeguards before filing
    foreclosures for most mortgages through the end of the year. The
    CFPB’s rules also require that mortgage servicers provide
    information to borrowers about their options.

**For borrowers not currently in forbearance, there is still an
opportunity to access relief. **

-   HUD, VA, and USDA announced that they will continue to allow
    homeowners who have not taken advantage of forbearance to date to
    enter into COVID-related forbearance through September 30, 2021.
-   Homeowners with Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac-backed mortgages who have
    COVID-related hardships will also continue to be eligible for
    COVID-related forbearance.

\###
