---
date: '2024-12-27'
published_time: 2024-12-27 22:30:05-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/12/27/on-the-record-press-gaggle-by-white-house-national-security-communications-advisor-john-kirby-38/
tags: press-briefings
title: "On-the-Record Press Gaggle by White\_House National Security Communications\
  \ Advisor John\_Kirby"
---
 
10:35 A.M. EST

MODERATOR:  Hi, everyone.  Good morning.  And thanks so much for joining
today’s News of the Day Gaggle with National Security Communications
Advisor John Kirby and Deputy National Security Advisor for Cyber and
Emerging Technology Anne Neuberger.  This call, as a reminder, is on the
record.  I’ll turn it over to John Kirby to kick us off. 

MR. KIRBY:  Hey.  Good morning, everybody.  Thanks for doing this during
the holiday week.  I hope, for those who celebrate, you all had a good
Christmas and a peaceful and joyous Hanukkah season. 

We are really lucky in this gaggle, this last gaggle of 2024, to have a
guest with us today.  As Eduardo said, our Deputy National Security
Advisor for Cyber, Anne Neuberger, is on the line.  Anne has an update
on the Salt Typhoon incident that she’s going to provide.  Then, I’m
going to join.  I’ve got a short topper on Russia-Ukraine that I want to
share with you all.  And then we’ll open up questions, and we’ll try to
knock this out in about a half an hour and let you get back to your
eggnog. 

But, Anne, over to you.

MS. NEUBERGER:  Thanks so much, John.  Hello, everybody.  And just
echoing and repeating John’s happy holidays greetings to everybody and
best wishes for a healthy new year.

So I wanted to provide an update on the Salt Typhoon incident as we’ve
continued to work with the companies who were affected and as we’ve
continued to better understand the techniques that the Chinese actors
use to compromise our telecom infrastructure and what we need to do
about it. 

So, first — and then I will also provide a quick update on a rule that
we’ll be posting shortly on the Federal Register related to the first
update in 20 years of rules around protecting Americans’ healthcare data
from rising cyber threats. 

So, first, as we look at China’s compromise of now nine telecom
companies, the first step is creating a defensible infrastructure.  We
wouldn’t leave our homes, our offices unlocked, and yet our critical
infrastructure — the private companies owning and operating our critical
infrastructure often do not have the basic cybersecurity practices in
place that would make our infrastructure riskier, costlier, and harder
for countries and criminals to attack. 

So, the first step, as I’ve mentioned, is creating that defensible
infrastructure.  And what we’ve learned from the investigation, in fact,
is that there’s four categories of things that are needed in this space:
better management of configuration; better vulnerability management of
networks; better work across the telecom sector to share information
when incidents occur and the same techniques are used to compromise
telecoms. 

That’s why we stood up the Enduring Security Framework 60-day effort
that involves all of the telecoms.  Their CEOs signed off on their
participating.  And we are documenting rapid, high-impact efforts,
bringing the best experts from the intelligence community, CISA, and the
FBI, together with the best telecom security experts, to document what
is needed. 

However, we know that voluntary cybersecurity practices are inadequate
to protect against China, Russia, and Iran hacking of our critical
infrastructure.  That is why the FCC launched their notice of a public
rule.  They’re waiting for all FCC commissioners to vote on that rule by
January 15th, and we really are eager to have the bipartisan support
across the FCC to ensure that telecom companies must put in place those
basic cybersecurity practices that would make it harder, riskier, and
costlier for the Chinese to compromise those networks in the future. 

In addition, GSA is reviewing our government contracts to ensure that
we’re using the power of government procurement to also require
high-impact cybersecurity practices.  And I would note that we would be
following in the footsteps of Australia and the UK, who have already put
in place telecom regulations because they recognize that the nation’s
secrets, the nation’s economy lies on their telecommunications sector. 

And when I talked with our UK colleagues and I asked, you know, “Do you
believe your regulations would have prevented the Salt Typhoon attack,”
their comment to me was, “We would have found it faster, we would have
contained it faster, it wouldn’t have spread as widely and have had the
impact and been as undiscovered for as long had those regulations been
in place.”  And that’s a powerful message. 

In addition, I wanted to, as I mentioned, give an update on the notice
that HHS will be publishing later today of a proposed rulemaking to
modify the HIPAA security rule from 1996 to strengthen cybersecurity
protections for electronic protected health information. 

The proposed rule would add new cybersecurity requirements and improve
existing security requirements, adding additional clarity and
specificity.  And this is — in the last five years, there’s been an
alarming growth, 1,002 percent, in the number of Americans affected by
large breaches of healthcare information, over 167 million individuals
in 2023 alone.  Since 2019, large breaching caused by hacking and
ransomware have increased 89 percent and 102 percent. 

And I must say, in this job, one of the most concerning and really
troubling things we deal with is hacking of hospitals, hacking of
healthcare data.  We see hospitals forced to operate manually.  We see
Americans’ sensitive healthcare data, sensitive mental health
procedures, sensitive procedures being leaked on the dark web with the
opportunity to blackmail individuals with that. 

And because of that, you know, the Biden administration, President
Biden, HHS is committed to protecting the security of health
information. 

Given the significant increase in cyberattacks and common compliance
deficiencies, HHS is issuing this new rule.  And what I want to
highlight is the security rule was first published in 2003.  It was last
revised in 2013.  So, this is the first update to this 20-year rule in
over a decade.  And it will require entities who maintain healthcare
data to do things like encrypt that data so if it’s hacked, it cannot be
leaked on the Web and endanger individuals and monitor their networks,
do compliance checks of their networks to see that they meet those
cybersecurity rules.  And I’m happy to go into more details or further
questions later.

I want to hit the question of cost.  While there would indeed be an
increase in the implementation costs for the proposed rule, if finalized
— and we estimate it would be $9 billion for the first year, $6 billion
for year two to five — the cost of not acting is not only high, it also
endangers critical infrastructure and patient safety, and it carries
other harmful consequences. 

I’ll give just two examples.  In 2023, the average cost of a breach in
healthcare was $10.1 million.  The two biggest healthcare breaches we
have ever experienced, Ascension Health and Change Healthcare, both
occurred in the last year, and you may have noted Change Healthcare
noted that the cost of the breach will be approaching $800 million in
the cost of recovery and the cost of operations, and, frankly, in the
cost to Americans’ healthcare data and the operations of hospitals
affected by it. 

So, happy to answer questions.  And with that, I’ll turn it over to John
with warmest wishes for you for a happy holiday season.

MR. KIRBY:  Thank you, Anne.  And same to you.  I appreciate that very
much. 

Okay, so what I wanted to talk a little bit about was the situation in
and around Kursk.  We now assess that North Korean forces are conducting
massed — massed, dismounted assaults against Ukrainian positions in
Kursk.  And these human wave tactics that we’re seeing haven’t really
been all that effective.  In fact, we assess that they’ve resulted in
heavy casualties for these North Korean forces.  Our estimate is that,
to date, they have suffered more than 1,000 killed or wounded in this
particular fighting in just the past week of them fighting on the front
lines.  So, 1,000 in just the past week.

It is clear that Russian and North Korean military leaders are treating
these troops as expendable and ordering them on hopeless assaults
against Ukrainian defenses.  These North Korean soldiers appear to be
highly indoctrinated, pushing attacks even when it is clear that those
attacks are futile. 

We also have reports of North Korean soldiers taking their own lives
rather than surrendering to Ukrainian forces, likely out of fear of
reprisal against their families in North Korea in the event that they’re
captured. 

And I think it’s important to keep all this in mind and it all comes in
context, of course, is the — in the early hours of Christmas when the
Russians launched waves of missiles and drones against Ukrainian cities,
particularly critical energy infrastructure.  No doubt this was all
about weaponizing winter and weaponizing energy, making it harder for
the Ukrainian people to get the heat that they need simply to subsist. 

That’s why we’re going to stay absolutely committed to making sure that
we are bolstering Ukrainian air defense capabilities as well as other
capabilities, of course.  And I think you’re going to see — well, no, I
know you’re going to see here in the next day or so, certainly over the
course of the next couple of days, yet another security assistance
package by the United States, approved by the President, which will
include, of course, air defense systems for Ukraine to help them beat
back against these attacks and also to help them in fighting in and
around Kursk to beat back these North Korean waves, as well as continue
their defensive operations against the Russians in the east, where the
Russians continue to make some plotting progress. 

So with that, Eduardo, we can open it up for questions.

MODERATOR:  Awesome.  Thank you.  First up, we’ll go to the line of Mike
Memoli.

Q    Hey, John.  Greetings from St. Croix.  I hope you’re having a good
holiday. 

I wanted to ask about comments overnight from President Putin seeming to
signal openness to peace talks in Slovakia.  The prime minister had just
been at the Kremlin and reiterated and made that offer to the Russians. 
What does the U.S. think of that possibility?

And secondly, if I can ask as well, I’m wondering if you can weigh in
any more on how the U.S. assesses the possibility of Russia having
downed that Azerbaijan jet.  Obviously, we had a statement yesterday,
but how — if there’s anything more you can say about how the U.S. came
to that assessment. 

MR. KIRBY:  So, on your first question, we have always said from the
beginning: Nothing about Ukraine without Ukraine.  Ukraine has got to be
center stage when it comes to any kind of negotiation.  We’ve also
always said that any other nation that wants to get involved in helping
a negotiated settlement in this war needs to be in complete lockstep
with President Zelenskyy and the Ukrainian people.  He gets to determine
if and when he’s ready to negotiate, and he gets to determine the
circumstances and the conditions under which he would do that. 

The last thing I’d say, Mike, is that Putin’s comments are pretty
vacuous.  I mean, he has shown absolutely zero interest in a negotiated
settlement.  I mean, as I just said — mentioned in my topper and you saw
the statement by the President, I mean, just over Christmas Day he’s
launching waves of missiles and drones against Ukrainian
infrastructure.  This is not a man who anyone should take seriously when
it comes to saying he’s ready for a negotiated settlement.  He has
proven quite the contrary in almost every single possible way. 

So, again, we would obviously want to make sure that if and when it
comes to a negotiated settlement, no matter who hosts that settlement,
that it is done in full concert with President Zelenskyy.  And in the
meantime, until he’s ready, we’re going to make sure that he can
negotiate in the best position of strength, which is why, as I said
earlier, you’re going to see yet another presidential drawdown package
here in coming days that will continue to bolster his ability to defend
himself. 

On your second question, I really don’t have anything more to add.  We
do have — have seen some early indications that would certainly point to
the possibility that this jet was brought down by Russian air defense
systems.  That said, there’s an ongoing investigation right now. 
Kazakhstan and Azerbaijan are conducting this jointly.  We have offered
our assistance to that investigation should they need it, should they
want it.  But we’re going to respect that process, and I really don’t
have anything more to add.

MODERATOR:  Next up, we’ll go to the line of Dustin Volz.

Q    Hi there.  Thank you so much for doing this.  If I could just go
back to Anne on Salt Typhoon.  Thank you for the update.  This ninth
U.S. telecom victim, I was just wondering if you could give any more
details on sort of the timing of that discussion, (inaudible), you could
clarify sort of how recently that was detected, and if you anticipate
that more victims will continue to be discovered as this investigation
continues.  Thank you. 

MS. NEUBERGER:  Thanks, Dustin.  So, one of the steps we took early on
was to release two guidance: one, a hunting guide and a hardening
guide.  And the hunting guide essentially captured the Chinese
techniques, and it went out to key telecom companies to have them look
for those techniques on their networks and call in for help if they
discover it.  So, from that, yes, a ninth company was identified.

And the hardening guidance is its companion.  As we’ve been working with
key telecom companies that were affected, on the hardening guidance,
we’re now refining it based on what we’re learning.  I mentioned that’s
why we stood up the ESF effort, because we see that very specific things
would actually make it riskier, costlier, and harder for the Chinese,
managing the management plane of the network, treating configuration
management differently, segmenting the network. 

One of the things that happened is the Chinese gained access to
networks, essentially had broad and full access.  That’s why they’ve
been able — we believe that’s why they had the capability to geolocate
millions of individuals, to record phone calls at will, because they had
that broad access. 

So, some of the recommendations, some of the requirements that we’re
looking for the FCC to include include segmenting the networks.  Even if
an attacker like the Chinese government gets access to a network,
they’re controlled and they’re contained. 

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Next up we’ll go to the line of Karen DeYoung.

Q    Hi.  I wanted to ask about Yemen and the Israeli strikes against
the international airport.  I wondered if the United States is in
agreement with that, targeting those places, especially when a lot of
civilians are there, if you think that was a worthwhile strike.

Also, if you could give us a readout on the recent round of U.S. and UK
strikes, how successful they were, and if you plan on continuing that. 

And finally, to ask about the shipping.  There seems to have been — we
haven’t heard about any shipping-related strikes recently.  Is that
because the Houthis have sort of stopped attacking ships as they’ve been
attacking Israel?  Or is there some — do we have some shortage in our
interceptor supplies?

MR. KIRBY:  There’s an awful lot there, Karen.  I’ll try to take them in
order.

On your first question, I’ll let the IDF speak to their military
operations, as we typically do.  I’m not going to comment on individual
strikes that they take to defend themselves.  I would just say that the
Houthis continue to pose a real, a present, and a viable threat to the
safety and security of the Israeli people as the Houthis — and you
mentioned it in your question to me — continue to launch strikes against
Israeli soil itself.  So they have a right to defend themselves.

Now, as we’ve also said and continue to say, how they defend themselves
matters, of course, and we want to see them conduct our operations with
a minimal impact on civilian infrastructure and certainly at much less
risk to the civilian population, and that’s a conversation that we
continue to have with them, and I can assure you that those
conversations are ongoing.

On the strikes that we’ve been conducting as part of our coalition
effort, I would point you to the Pentagon to speak to battle damage
assessment.  I’m afraid I don’t have that level of detail here this
morning. 

That said, those missions are important in terms of further degrading
Houthi capabilities.  We believe that, in the main, these strikes have
been effective, but clearly there are continued threats posed by the
Houthis, continued capabilities that they are able to deploy and use
against commercial and warship activity in the Red Sea.  And so, these
strikes will continue for as long as that threat remains.  Clearly, they
still have some capability to conduct these attacks, and not just
against shipping but against the Israeli people as well. 

On the reduction, I think it’s most likely a combination of factors,
Karen.  We believe it is certainly due in part to the strikes that we
have been conducting and the degradation of their capabilities.  We
haven’t eliminated that.  They still have the ability to strike out at
shipping, but we do believe we have further degraded their ability to do
so.

We also have extensive defensive capabilities as well.  I mean, we
believe one of the reasons that you haven’t seen successful attacks
against commercial shipping lately is because we also continue to
sharpen and hone our defensive capabilities to prevent those attacks
from succeeding.  And then, as you rightly also noted, one other factor
could be that they have increased their attention on Israeli soil and
attacks against the nation of Israel. 

So, I think it’s a combination of things, but the strikes will continue
against their capabilities for as long as we believe those capabilities
remain viable, and they still remain viable.

MODERATOR:  Next up, we’ll go to the line of Martin Montague.

  
Q    Good morning.  Happy holidays.  I have questions for

Anne.  Anne, thank you for the update.  Appreciate it. 

You know, the number has come up from eight to nine.  I’m wondering if
there’s any evidence that any of the firms have been able to fully evict
the Chinese from their networks. 

And I’m also wondering if there’s any sort of idea, now that we’re a few
weeks — few months, I should say, into this investigation, the total
universe of Americans impacted by this breach, is there any sort of
ballpark figure, rough estimate, back-of-the-envelope number you might
be able to share?  Thank you.

MS. NEUBERGER:  Thanks so much, Martin.  So, two things I would say. 
One is, you know, I’ve had the opportunity to lead both offensive and
defensive operations, and the reality is that from what we’re seeing
regarding the level of cybersecurity implemented across the telecom
sector, those networks are not as defensible as they need to be to
defend against a well-resourced, capable, offensive cyber actor like
China. 

The reality is that China is targeting critical infrastructure in the
United States — those are private sector companies — and we still see
companies not doing the basics.  So, you know, in one telecoms case,
there was one administrator account that had access to over 100,000
routers.  So, when the Chinese compromised that account, they gained
that kind of broad access across the network.  That’s not meaningful
cybersecurity to defend against a nation-state actor. 

So I think, at this point, what we need to see is we need to see the
FCC’s rules, we need to see every member of the — all the FCC
commissioners vote to implement the required minimum cybersecurity
practices across telecom, because once those are in place, once
companies are taking those steps to make their networks defensible, we
would feel more confident to say that the Chinese actors have been
evicted and can continue to not be able to come in. 

With regard to the total number impacted, we don’t yet have a good
sense.  Our understanding is that a large number of individuals were
geolocated in the Washington, D.C./Virginia area.  We believe it was the
goal of identifying who those phones belong to and if they were
government targets of interest for follow-on espionage and intelligence
collection of communications, of texts, and phone calls on those
particular phones. 

So, we believe a large number of individuals were affected by
geolocation and metadata of phones; a smaller number around actual
collection of phone calls and texts.  And I think the scale we’re
talking about is far larger on the geolocation; probably less than 100
on the actual individuals. 

But everything we’re learning — we’re continuing to learn in the
incident.  The Chinese, you know, were very careful about their
techniques.  They erased logs.  In many cases, companies were not
keeping adequate logs.  So, there are details likely, Martin, that we
will never know regarding the scope and scale of this.  And that’s why
we’re looking forward and saying let’s lock down this infrastructure. 
And, frankly, let’s hold the Chinese accountable for this. 

You saw the action, I’ll just reference, that the Department of Commerce
took regarding China telecom.  There are further actions we’re working
related to actions like that in that space as well that will be coming
out over the next month and over the coming months.  Thanks.

MODERATOR:  Next up we’ll go to the line of Kellie Meyer.

Q    Hi, thanks for taking my call.  Merry Christmas, John.  Thank you
for doing this today.

On the plane crash, I wanted to ask: Is POTUS monitoring this, the
latest he’s been watching?  Can you share?

MR. KIRBY:  Yeah, Kellie.  Yeah, the President has been and will
continue to be apprised and kept up to date on what’s going on.  But as
I said, it’s actively being investigated.  He wanted to make sure that
our team — and we did this both through our diplomats, but also through
some NSC officials — made very clear to the Azerbaijani government that
we stand ready and willing to help them, should they need it, with their
investigation. 

But again, I don’t want to get ahead of where we are.

MODERATOR:  Next up, we’ll go to the line of Sara Cook.

Q    Hey, thank you so much for doing this.  I had a couple questions. 
One, on the crash.  Can you expand on what these early indications are
that you’re seeing that it might have been a Russian missile system? 

And separately, can you comment on Marc Fogel receiving wrongfully
detained status in Russia?

And if I may, on the strike that Israel conducted near a hospital on
Thursday that left about 50 killed, including five hospital workers and
five journalists, I’m wondering if you can comment on that as well. 

MR. KIRBY:  All right, I’m going to be completely unsatisfying to you on
almost all of these. 

I’m not going to get into what the early indications are that we’re
looking at.  I think hopefully you can understand why I won’t do that,
but we do have early indications. 

Again, I want to clarify: These are early indications.  There is an
active investigation going on, and I don’t want to get ahead of where we
are right now. 

I’m going to leave the State Department to speak to Mr. Fogel and his
classification.  That is a determination that they make, and they have a
process for that.  And I really think it’s better if you ask them what
that — about that process and his particular case.

And on your last question, we’ve said time and time and time again:
Hospitals should not be active scenes of combat and conflict.  People
should be able to — be able to feel safe going to a hospital, get the
medical care that they desperately need.  Sadly, we have seen in the
past — again, time and time and time again — that Hamas uses civilian
infrastructure, like schools and like hospitals, to store caches of
weapons, to house fighters, to plan and coordinate. 

I can’t speak to this particular strike.  You guys are probably sick of
me saying it, but I’ll say it again: I’m not going to speak to every IDF
strike that they take.  I’ll let them speak to their operations.  But
again, they still have an active threat from Hamas — Hamas fighters. 
They should speak to how they’re dealing with that threat.  We don’t
want to see hospitals as the scene of conflict.  And I’ll leave it at
that. 

I do want to, if I could, while I remember — Karen DeYoung asked me
about interceptor supplies for the United States Navy.  Again, this will
be an unsatisfying answer, but I didn’t want to think — I didn’t want
Karen to think I was blowing that off.  That would really be a question
more for the Pentagon to speak to in terms of their inventory.  I would
be surprised if they’re willing to publicly disclose what their
inventory of air defense interceptors are aboard their surface ships in
the Red Sea.  That’s not the kind of thing that we make public. 

But again, I would point you to the U.S. Navy or to DOD, and I just
didn’t want you to think I blew that part of your question off.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  We’ve got time for a couple more questions. 
Next up, we’ll go to the line of Lucas Thompson.

Q    John, is President Biden committed to the destruction of the
Houthis in Yemen before he leaves office?

MR. KIRBY:  Hey, Lucas.  This is about destroying their ability to
conduct these kinds of attacks.  It’s not about wiping every Houthi
fighter off the map.  This is about preventing them from threatening
commercial and, quite frankly, naval ship activity in and around the Red
Sea, as well as helping degrade and prevent their ability to continue to
launch drones and missiles at Israel.  So that’s what this is about. 

And as I said in my answer to Karen, we’re going to continue that
effort.  For as long as he’s Commander-in-Chief, we’re going to continue
to conduct those kinds of strikes and continue to try to degrade those
capabilities.

MODERATOR:  Next up, we’ll go to the line of Eric Bazail.

Q    John, thanks so much for doing this.  Do you have any updates on
the state of Gaza ceasefire talks, especially in light of some
back-and-forth comments between Israeli and some of the Hamas leaders on
Wednesday that Al Jazeera and other outlets reported on?

MR. KIRBY:  What I can tell you, in all honesty — and we had a
conversation on this this morning — that our backs are to it, and we are
continuing to work on this as hard as we can to try to get a ceasefire
deal in place before we leave office.  And the team is, again, actively
working this even today. 

I don’t have any specific updates to share with you.  Obviously, if we
did, we would be sharing with you if we had some kind of breakthrough;
we’re not there yet. 

I would just add again that Hamas is the obstacle.  As you get down
towards what you believe is a conclusion of a negotiation, which we
believe we are close to, it’s the specific details that become the
issues over which the sides barter.  And the closer you get to the end,
the more detailed those discussions occur.  And that’s where it gets
more difficult, and that’s really where we are.  And it is because of
Hamas throwing up obstacles or refusing to move on any of these details
that we are still not at a conclusion. 

But we believe, as Jake has said, we’re very, very close, and so we’re
not going to give up on it.

MODERATOR:  Next up, we’ll go to the line of Dmitry Anopchenko.

Q    Hello.  Thank you very much for taking my question.  John, two
short questions please.  Firstly, you mentioned the situation with the
North Koreans.  Previously, it was reported that Ukraine will have the
opportunity to use the American or Western long-range missiles or
long-range capabilities hitting any territory where the North Korea
troops are.  So could you clarify the policy?

And secondly, there are a lot of talks about the upcoming meeting of the
Ukrainian Defense Contact Group, the Ramstein Format, scheduled for
January.  Could you share your understanding: Do you believe that it
might be on the leaders’ level, or it will be on ministers’ level, as it
was before? Thank you. 

MR. KIRBY:  I don’t have an update on the next Ukraine Defense Contact
Group, Ramstein Format that you mentioned.  We’ll have more to say as we
get closer to that, and I’m sure I’d point you to DOD to be the prime
speaker to their plans for that. 

On your first question, I’ll let the Ukrainians talk about their
operations and how they’re conducting their operations in and around
Kursk.  Nothing has changed about our guidance to them in terms of how
they can use long-range capabilities to defend themselves in that area. 
But they should speak to what they’re doing, how they’re doing it, what
they’re using.  I’m not going to get into that.  I haven’t done that for
three years, and I’m not going to start doing it now. 

I’ll just say what I said before, and this kind of ties back to my
topper: It remains deeply troubling that Mr. Putin has decided to use
foreign troops on Russian soil to defend that soil, which is a historic
move; hasn’t been done for decades.  We believe — continue to believe
it’s a sign of his desperation as he tries to spread forces around a
pretty wide front there and defend against the Ukrainians in and around
Kursk. 

And as we said when they decided to move forward on this, those North
Korean troops would be doing it at their own peril.  And, clearly,
they’re under peril.  In just the last week alone, as I said, a thousand
casualties that’s killed or wounded in the space of, what, seven, eight
days. 

So I hope that for all the things — and I’ve said this before, but I’ll
say it again — for all the things that the Russian military has given
these guys, whether it’s a rifle, ammunition, artillery, knapsacks,
whatever the heck they’re getting, I hope they’re loading up their
commanders with a bunch of body bags, because they’re clearly going to
need it. 

MODERATOR:  Our last question will go to the line of Courtney Kube.

Q    Hi.  Thank you.  I know you don’t want to talk about the
indications that you guys have on the plane, but I wonder if you can
even say whether the U.S. indications, early indications, are more than
just sort of the visual things that we’ve been hearing about from
experts who are looking at the holes and saying it could be shrapnel and
things.  Do you have actual — some kind of intelligence or information,
whether it’s like infrared or something that’s beyond just sort of the
informed speculation we’ve been seeing?

MR. KIRBY:  Short answer to your question, Court, is yes. And I’ll leave
it at that.

MODERATOR:  And that’s all the time we have for today.  Thank you,
Kirby, and thank you, Anne, for joining.  And thanks, everyone, for
listening in and asking your questions. 

If you have any follow-up questions, feel free to reach out to our team,
and we’ll get back to you.  Hope everyone has a great rest of your day.

11:10 A.M. EST
