---
date: '2024-12-14'
modified_time: 2024-12-15 14:52:11-05:00
published_time: 2024-12-14 23:00:00-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/12/14/background-press-call-on-the-ongoing-response-to-reported-drone-sightings/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Background Press Call on the Ongoing Response to Reported Drone\_Sightings"
---
 
Via Teleconference

MODERATOR: (In progress) — discuss the ongoing interagency response to
the reported drone sightings.

Today, we have representatives from the FBI, from DHS, from FAA, who
will open remarks and talk through their respective roles and
authorities when it comes to these reported sightings.

Today’s call will be on background, and it will be — and speakers from
each agency can be attributed as representatives from their respective
agencies. For example, speakers from DHS can be attributed as a DHS
official. Speaker from FBI can be attributed as an FBI official, and so
on, but not quoted by name.

Each representative will provide opening remarks at the top of the call,
and then we will go ahead and take some questions.

So with that, I will turn it over to the FBI to kick us off.

FBI OFFICIAL: Thank you very much, and good afternoon, everyone.

On Monday, 18 November 2024, multiple suspicious activity reports were
generated through the New Jersey Suspicious Activity Report System
regarding unidentified and unknown subjects operating multiple unmanned
aircraft, otherwise known as UAS, in the vicinity of critical
infrastructure locations in the state of New Jersey.

On Wednesday, 20 November 2024, FBI Newark opened an investigation into
the sightings.

On Tuesday, 3 December 2024, FBI Newark established the 800 and online
tip lines at the request of our local law enforcement partners to help
free up 911 call centers that were being inundated with calls about
drones.

Since the UAS activities were first reported, FBI Newark has done
extensive investigative work to determine if any threats or threat
actors are behind them, or if they pose a threat to the public or
national security. We have been engaged with over 50 local, state, and
federal partners consistently, and have so far completed a number of
investigative activities, including serving legal process to relevant
companies surrounding key UAS events.

We have visual observation teams deployed at various locations
throughout the state of New Jersey, to include our military
installations, conducting video radar analysis, alongside with our
partners, which have determined all large fixed-wing reported sightings
have been manned aircraft.

We established a tip line, and in that tip line process, the process
approximately 5,000 tips — have received 5,000 tips through that
national tip line. And of those 5,000, less than 100 leads have been
generated and deemed worthy of further investigative activity.

We have conducted dozens of interviews, and collected and reviewed
multiple videos, and that analysis of those videos is ongoing.

We have also conducted intelligence analysis in comparison to other
activities. We are working actively with our law enforcement partners
all over the country to bring equipment into our AOR to assist with
tracking and identifying drone activity.

We have consulted with our counterparts in other regions that have
experienced similar sightings. We established a tip line to collect
additional information about these and other drone sightings. We have
and continue to actively investigate leads, searching out the most
relevant information, doing interviews, and responding to reports of
downed UAS.

The reported down UAS so far have been relevant — have not been relevant
to our investigation. We are consulting with experts in the field of
unmanned aircraft. Most of the reports of UAS have originated from the
ground, with very, very few reports of UAS activity from pilots of
manned aircraft. And that was the origination of our investigation,
opening of our investigation with New Jersey State Police (inaudible).

In overlaying the visual sightings reported to the FBI with approach
patterns for Newark-Liberty, JFK, and LaGuardia airports, the density of
reported sightings matches the approach patterns of these very busy
airports, with flights coming in throughout the night. This modeling is
indicative of manned aviation being quite often mistaken for unmanned
aviation or UAS.

The combination of efforts so far as noted above, to include technical
equipment, tip line information, and noted consults has found — has not
found any evidence to support large-scale UAS activities.

It is important to note, though, that they’re without a doubt — without
a doubt have been UAS’s flying over the state of New Jersey. With nearly
a million registered UAS in the United States, there’s no doubt many of
them are owned and operated here within the state.

The national airspace is designed to be as minimally restrictive as
possible. And all indications are these UAS operators are operating
within the parameters established for their use in that airspace. This
is not to say the FBI does not believe UAS’s are used for criminal or
other nefarious activity, and it is well known to us that criminals
breaking the law do, in fact, use UAS to support their actions.

The FBI will continue to investigate all allegations of criminal
activity involving UAS, and we’ll continue to work with our partners to
defend and disrupt criminal and national security threats. Thank you.

MODERATOR: Thank you so much. We will now go to \[DHS official\] with
DHS.

DHS OFFICIAL: Yeah, thank you, Michael. On the DHS side of the house, we
certainly understand why people are concerned. That’s one of the reasons
we’re devoting significant resources to support New Jersey and our
federal and state law enforcement partners who are actively
investigating these reported sightings.

At the same time, it’s important to understand that we don’t have any
current evidence that there’s a threat to public safety.

The FBI, DHS, and our federal partners, in very close coordination with
New Jersey State Police, continue to deploy personnel and technology to
investigate the situation, to confirm whether the reported drone flights
are actually drones or otherwise inaccurate sightings.

You’ve probably heard there hasn’t been any electronic detections to
confirm the visual reports, but one thing we do have, and I’ll reiterate
as our partners at FBI said, is the geospatial modeling, where we’re
overlaying the drone sightings and the manned aircraft tracks, and we’re
confident that many of the reported drone sightings are, in fact, manned
aircraft being misidentified as drones.

Historically, we’ve experienced many cases of mistaken identity where
reported drones are, in fact, manned aircraft or facilities.

Now, as the FBI said, that does not mean that we’re dismissing all
reports as noncredible, but it does help us understand that the amount
of actual drone activity is likely less than what’s being reported. In
fact, we absolutely share New Jersey’s concerns with the amount and type
of activity being reported, which is why our HQ and component field
offices continue to support New Jersey and investigate the reportings.

Some examples of our support include the U.S. Coast Guard and other
partners determined that there is no evidence to date of any
foreign-based involvement in sending drones ashore from marine vessels
in the area. DHS also sent New Jersey State Police advanced camera and
radar equipment directly out of our R&D pipeline.

This kit is drone-specific radar that also cues a highly capable EO/IR,
or electro-optical infrared camera system. If the radar detects a drone,
the camera will be able to identify and track it. This is extremely
helpful for drones without a standard radio frequency signal. The
imagery can also help determine the type of drone and whether there is a
payload, for example.

So far, the equipment has not detected anything unusual. We are aware
that additional equipment is being provided by our partners as well.

Lastly, CISA and the U.S. Coast Guard also continue to monitor and
evaluate security for critical infrastructure like power plants, and may
adjust our positions as necessary. At this time, however, no threat has
been identified.

And while there is no known malicious activity in New Jersey — occurring
in New Jersey right now, the reported sightings there do highlight a gap
in our current authorities, and so we would also urge Congress to pass
our important counter-UAS legislation that will extend and expand our
existing counter-drone authorities so we’re better equipped to identify
and mitigate any potential threats at airports or other critical
infrastructure, but also so state and local authorities are provided the
tools that they need to respond to such threats as well.

We’ll be happy to answer questions as we move forward. Thank you.

MODERATOR: Thank you. We will now go to \[FAA official\] with FAA.

FAA OFFICIAL: Yes, thank you. And good afternoon, everyone. As you’ve
heard, there is a considerable interagency effort underway here. So,
worth mentioning also that the FAA is a safety organization, and I
wanted to mention that as this interagency effort is multifaceted, with
different responsibilities of different agencies.

Also worth mentioning: It is not illegal to fly drones in U.S. airspace.
Generally speaking, it is legal to fly a drone in most locations, both
during the day and at night, as long as you remain below 400 feet and
you keep those drones in sight at all times, avoiding other aircraft and
not causing hazard to any people or property, and avoiding restricted
airspace. Some local municipalities may also have additional
requirements that are levied, that will change from municipality to
municipality.

Flying for any other purposes, like videography or news gathering,
require additional authorities. Safely integrating drones into the
National Airspace System is a key priority for the agency and something
we take very seriously.

The FAA received the first reports of drone activity near Morris County,
New Jersey, on November 18. At the request of federal security partners,
the FAA published two temporary flight restrictions — I may refer to
them as TFR, (inaudible) — prohibiting drone flights over Picatinny
Arsenal as well as Trump National Golf Club in Bedminster.

The Picatinny Arsenal temporary flight restriction was published on
November 20, and that is a 2-nautical-mile, 2,000-foot restriction that
currently expires on December the 26th but can be extended. We’re also
working on a permanent restriction over that location.

November 22nd, Bedminster Golf Course, temporary flight restriction went
into effect with a 1-nautical-mile, 1,000-foot restriction that expires
on December 20th. Also may be extended.

We continue to support our interagency partners regarding reported drone
sightings, and we also continue to highlight our website as a resource
for drone information, and continue to engage with industry and the user
community to educate operators on the requirements of operating drones
within the National Airspace System.

And we are also able to take any questions.

MODERATOR: Great. Thank you so much. We will now go into the Q&A
portion. We also, for this, have representatives from the Department of
Defense on the line to answer questions related to their equities.

And then, just as a reminder to everyone, the attribution for this call
is on background and can be attributed as representatives of their
agencies, but not by name. Thank you very much. We will now go to Q&A.

Our first question is going to go to Andrea Shalal. You should be able
to unmute yourself.

Q Hi. Hey, thanks so much for doing this. I guess my question is: You
know, Kirby answered these questions pretty, you know, comprehensively
on Thursday. You know, first of all, why did you decide to have another
press conference today, or another briefing or call?

And two, you know, I’m seeing reports that these sightings have now sort
of spread. I mean, can one of you sort of say what you think is
happening here, which is sort of like, you know, a sense of panic is
setting in, that people are worried despite your assurances that these
reports have been, you know, manned aircraft, general aviation aircraft?

And what — sorry — just, like, help us contextualize it, if you will.
And then, you know, is it — how long will this go on? How long will this
investigation go on? Is there some sort of end time that you have
envisioned? Thanks.

MODERATOR: FBI, would you want to come in on the question about the
investigation?

FBI OFFICIAL: Yeah, I’ll talk briefly about the nature of the
investigation. I’ll talk maybe, perhaps, about our authorities. We
investigate the criminal misuse of drones, and so I think that’s an
important piece to highlight, particularly if they’re smuggling — if the
drones are used to smuggle contraband into prisons or conducting some
type of illegal surveillance, stalking, or some type of terrorist
threat.

But there are — you know, it’s important to note that any investigation
that we’re conducting as a result of the use of UAS is limited in scope.
There is legislation — I echo the concerns of the partners at DHS —
there’s legislation that’s introduced in both houses, and that will
expand our legal authorities as it relates to the counter use — the
counter-UAS tools and technology that we have in those efforts that will
help us quickly identify or quickly mitigate some of the threats that
would exist as a result of that utility of UAS.

Now, as it relates to how long this investigation will occur, I can’t
speak to how long. What I can say is that we are doing everything we can
alongside our partners to understand what is happening and whether or
not there is more nefarious activity that we need to explore.

I can’t speak to any other press releases or press conferences.

Q Michael, can you just sort of say anything about whether the
investigation has expanded to include sightings in Maryland? The former
governor of Maryland posted a note yesterday on X, saying that he’d seen
activity going on for something like 45 minutes, shared a video. Has
your investigation expanded to include Maryland and other states, or is
it still focused mostly on New Jersey?

FBI OFFICIAL: Yeah, you know — this is FBI again here. You know, there’s
evidence to support that, you know, again, as relayed, a lot of
sightings are manned aviation.

I think there’s two parts to this. Is there are the initial sightings
that took place here in New Jersey and perhaps in other locations
throughout the country, and then now there is this expanded level of
drone activity that may not have been coordinated as part of what
occurred in the initial stages that we observed. So, in other words, the
initial reports that we were getting, (inaudible) there’s no
confirmation that any of those relate to anything that’s being observed
throughout the country or at other locations.

MODERATOR: And I’ll just add, Andrea, on your first point: You know, I
think our goal in doing this is just to continue to provide the most
accurate picture of how we see this and the ongoing work that’s
happening. You know, I think that given how much focus there has been
here, we just wanted to provide another opportunity to hear from the
experts who are working every day on this to get the latest — to let you
know the latest information. I

Q I mean, do you think people are panicking?

FBI OFFICIAL: Yeah, I think there is — you know, look, if we are talking
about the 5,000 leads that we received, again, less than 100 of those
have been actionable to us.

I think there is — I don’t want to cause alarm and panic, but you can’t
ignore the sightings that have been there, and we are concerned about
those just as much as anybody else is. I’m a resident here of New
Jersey. I live here. My kids have those same types of questions. And
we’re doing our best to find the origin of that specific — of those
drone activities. But I think there has been a slight overreaction.

Q I’m sorry, it’s hard to hear you. There has been a slight —

MODERATOR: Our next question is going to go to — sorry, next question is
going to go Pierre Thomas. You should be able to unmute yourself.

Q Can you guys hear me okay?

MODERATOR: Yes.

Q So, my question is this: Have there been confirmed drone sightings
near sensitive or military installations? Have you confirmed any? And
give us a sense of whether they were nefarious or — I mean, I think
based on what you said, no, but I just wanted to be specific in that
question. Have there been any confirmed drone sightings near sensitive
or military installations?

DOD OFFICIAL: Yeah, this is Joint Staff here. I can talk to the military
bases. We have had confirmed sightings at Picatinny Arsenal and Naval
Weapons Station Earle. They are — you know, I refer to them as
sightings. They’re all visual, but they are by highly trained security
personnel.

This is not a new issue for us. We’ve, you know, had to deal with drone
incursions over our bases for quite a time now. It’s something that we
routinely respond to in each and every case when a reporting is cited.
We have electronic means to detect and respond, and we train our
security personnel to identify, categorize, and then employ their
equipment to deny the drone use over our bases.

In some cases, it is at the low end a violation of the local, state
force protection measures, which, you know, they are essentially all
no-drone zones, so there’s no unauthorized drone use over our
facilities. In other cases, it is federally controlled airspace, and it
is, in fact, a federal airspace violation.

So, there are different things that we can do, different authorities
based on what type of violation it is.

But, yes, in December we have had sightings over Picatinny and Naval
Weapons Station Earle.

Q As far as you can determine, did they have cameras or anything, or
were they just people inadvertently in the wrong space?

DOD OFFICIAL: Yeah, to date, we have no intelligence or observations
that would indicate that they were aligned with a foreign actor or that
they had malicious intent. But I just got to simply tell you we don’t
know. We have not been able to locate or identify the operators or the
points of origin. We have very limited authorities when it comes to
moving off base. We have to coordinate with local and as well as federal
law enforcement to try and locate these persons and where they’re
launching from, to either cite them or execute law enforcement
activities that we’re restricted from doing off base.

So, we simply don’t know. And I know there’s been a lot of press
reporting on this. We don’t know. We’re also significantly restricted,
and rightfully so — in fact, prohibited — from intelligence,
surveillance, and reconnaissance here in the homeland.

So we don’t have the same capabilities and the same methods that we
would employ in other locations outside of the homeland to determine
points of origin and identify very quickly where these operators are
located and then respond to that location. We just can’t do that here in
the homeland. We have to coordinate with law enforcement to try to do
that, which we are doing, and we do that on a routine basis at nearly
all of our locations. We have good relationships and excellent
coordination, and we respond quickly to try to identify them.

But the main point is to deter the activity using some of our electronic
means that can respond to most of these small commercial systems and
deny them access to the airspace over our bases.

But we don’t know what the activity is. We don’t know if it malicious,
if it is criminal, but I will tell you that it is irresponsible. And,
you know, here on the military side, we are just as frustrated with the
irresponsible nature of this activity.

MODERATOR: Thank you so much. We got to move to the next question.
Sorry.

The next question is going to go to Eric Martin. You should be able to
unmute yourself. Eric, you’re still on mute if you’re trying to speak.

Q Yes, can you hear me?

MODERATOR: Yeah.

Q Sorry about that. Thank you so much for doing this. Just to follow up
on Andrea’s question, you know, what has changed today, December 14th,
from what you knew earlier in the week? I mean, can you just — because
it seems like a lot of what’s being provided is review of things that
have already been briefed upon.

I’m just wondering if you can — you know, in terms of the nuance of what
you know now that you didn’t know two or three days ago, if you can just
explain, kind of chronologically, what it is that you’ve learned from
the investigation in the last day or two, or what events there is. Or
has this just reconfirmed the initial findings that we were told about
earlier this week?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: I’ll just jump in. I mean, I think, one,
it’s our responsibility to update the public on what we’re learning, and
that’s part of what we’re doing. I think it’s notable that — I mean, I
think the toplines are the same, which is: At this point, we have not
identified — obviously, we are taking this incredibly seriously. At this
point, we have not identified any basis for believing that there is —
that these drones — that there’s any criminal activity involved, that
there’s any national security threat, that there’s any particular public
safety threat, or that there’s a malicious foreign actor involved in
these drones.

That said, as you’ve heard from all of the experts on this call, all of
the departments and agencies are taking this incredibly seriously and
investigating every possible lead and working to try to understand what
these sightings are.

I think you’ve also heard, consistent with what I believe was briefed to
you earlier this week, that at least some portion of what has been
reported to be drones have on further inquiry turned out to be manned
aircraft that were lawfully in the airspace. And that is not uncommon
for people to see things that appear to be drones that turn out not to
be drones.

So I think, largely, the toplines are the same, but I also think that it
is our responsibility to make sure that the public has the latest
information available.

MODERATOR: Thank you so much. I think we have time for maybe one more
question, and we’ll go to Celia Mendoza.

Q Yes. Thank you so much. I have a question in terms of what local
authorities can do versus the federal authorities. We understand that
the governor of New Jersey had sent a letter to the President asking for
not only more resources, but capabilities to do more. Can you, kind of,
give us an understanding of what are the limitations of local
authorities when it comes to bringing down this type of objects, or what
could be the expanded options that they might get if the President
decides to?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: I’ll take a stab real quick, and then
others should fill in.

The administration has been seeking, for several years now, additional
authorities to expand the counter-UAS authorities, both of the federal
government, which are themselves very limited, and also to give state
and local authorities the authority to use certain C-UAS technologies
with federal oversight.

That legislation has been pending. I think, again, emphasizing that
while at this point we have no evidence to believe that these drones
pose a national security or a public safety threat, or that they are the
work of a malicious foreign actor, nonetheless, this incident and the
concern about the drone sightings highlights the importance of expanding
authorities so that state and locals can have some of the authorities
that you’re referencing and that the federal government can also — would
also be able to take additional actions beyond what is currently
authorized by the limited statutory grants.

MODERATOR: Thank you so much. And, unfortunately, that’s all the time we
have today. Thank you all for joining. Thank you to our speakers.

I know it’s a Saturday afternoon, but we wanted to bring everyone
together to share the latest information we had and an update. So,
appreciate everyone joining, and thank you to all of our speakers here.

Any follow-up questions, feel free to reach out to myself at the NSC or
our press distro on this. And thank you again, and have a great rest of
your day.
