---
date: '2024-12-10'
modified_time: 2024-12-11 10:13:37-05:00
published_time: 2024-12-10 22:00:00-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/12/10/on-the-record-press-gaggle-by-white-house-national-security-communications-advisor-john-kirby-36/
tags: press-briefings
title: "On-the-Record Press Gaggle by White\_House National Security Communications\
  \ Advisor John\_Kirby"
---
 
Via Teleconference

10:45 A.M. EST

MODERATOR:  Hi, everyone.  Thanks for joining our gaggle today.  Kirby
has a few words here at the top, and then we’ll get into your questions.

MR. KIRBY:  Hey, everybody.  Good morning.  I know you’re all still
focused on the news coming out of Syria, as are we.  Just a couple of
points at the top. 

We continue to carefully monitor developments there, as you would expect
that we are.  The President is staying fully briefed by his national
security team, and that will remain the case going forward.  This is
something that he had been — and the team had been watching develop over
the last week or so, and certainly he’s going to stay completely up to
speed and informed on it.  As a matter of fact, he’s also, as you know,
reaching out to counterparts in the region.  He spoke with King Abdullah
yesterday. 

I don’t have any additional calls to read out at this time, but I think
it’s safe to say that he will be — he will stay in contact with our
counterparts in the region.  And he has directed the national security
team to do the same. 

Jake Sullivan, our National Security Advisor, will be traveling to
Israel tomorrow.  Certainly there will be a lot on the agenda in those
discussions, but Syria will no doubt be at the top of that list. 

And then, I think you can expect to see, in coming days, other
Cabinet-level and other national security-level individuals traveling to
the region and/or having conversations with their counterparts.  So,
stay tuned for that.

Now, as for what’s actually happening on the ground, it remains an open
question exactly how this is going to play out politically.  As you
know, there are multiple rebel groups that are in Damascus right now,
multiple opposition groups that are involved.  And as the President
said, they’re all saying the right things, but we’re going to have to
watch and see what they actually do. 

We want to make sure that, at the end of this, whatever the governing
authority looks like, whatever institutions are preserved — and again,
we noted that the opposition groups have made clear that they want the
Syrian army, for instance, to stay intact — that the Syrian people get
to determine what their future looks like and that whatever processes
are put in place, they are Syrian-led.  And we want to assist in that,
and we will certainly do that internally and externally. 

Internally to the region, we have the ability to communicate with the
opposition groups, and we’ll continue to do that.  And we also, as I
already highlighted, will maintain open communications with counterparts
and interlocutors in the region but outside Syria.

We want to make sure that the aspirations of the Syrian people are fully
met.  They have suffered enough over 14 years.  And we’re going to be
working very, very hard to do that, particularly through existing
U.N.-led processes.  But it’s got to be — ultimately, it’s got to be a
Syrian-led evolution here towards better and more representative
governance. 

We believe it is in our interest, our national security interest, that
Syria be stable and secure and that, again, the Syrian people are able
to determine their future.  It’s in our interest in the region. 

It is also in our interest that we continue to put pressure on ISIS, and
so the counter-ISIS mission by our troops in Syria continues.  The
President talked about a wave of strikes we conducted on Sunday,
75-somewhat strikes on ISIS camps and facilities.  You can expect that
that kind of activity will continue.  We don’t want to give ISIS an
opportunity to exploit what’s going on.  They love nothing more than
ungoverned space.  And back to my first point, we want to make sure that
all of Syria is properly governed and that the Syrian people, again,
have a say in that. 

So, the pressure on ISIS will absolutely continue, because that, too, is
very much in our national security interest, and we’ll stay at that. 

I want to just briefly also — as I’m sure you guys will ask, and so let
me just let you know — we don’t have any additional information on
Austin Tice.  This development could present an opportunity for us to
glean more information about him, his whereabouts, his condition. 

But as you and I are speaking here this morning, I can’t report that we
have any additional context.  We will work this, as we have, very, very
hard.  And we’ll keep the Tice family as informed as we possibly can. 
We want to see him home with his family where he belongs.  The President
mentioned that as well over the weekend, and I can assure you that we
are pushing as hard as we can to learn as much as we can, but I don’t
have any additional context to share with you today. 

I think it’s important, before I leave the topic of Syria, to just take
a step back and review some of how we got here.  And it is true, I think
unequivocally true, that much of the developments that we’ve seen in
Syria is an outgrowth of the fact that Assad’s biggest supporters,
Russia and Iran, are significantly weakened now.  And that is tied
directly, as the President said, to unflagging American support for
Israel in their fight against Hamas and in the effort to secure a
ceasefire with Hezbollah.  And it is absolutely an outgrowth of our
support for Ukraine that has consistently weakened Russian military
forces and certainly caused the Russians to refocus the great locus of
their military efforts on that war in Ukraine that they started. 

And there’s just no way to look at it and see otherwise.  They are both
significantly distracted and weakened by the efforts in the Middle East
and in Europe and American support for our allies and partners in both
places. 

It isn’t just that Russia and Iran were unwilling to help Assad after 14
years; it is that they were unable to.  And again, the United States
played a major role in that. 

Lastly, if I could, just a programming note.  Jake will be meeting this
afternoon with hostage families, right on the eve of his travel to
Israel.  And as I mentioned earlier, certainly Syria is going to be at
the top of the agenda.  But without question, the most important thing
Jake is going to want to talk to the Israelis about is how we can try to
get a hostage deal in place so that we can get their loved ones back
home where they belong, get them the answers that they deserve and that
they need.  And so, he’s going to be having another opportunity to have
that conversation with them today.

I would remind that this has been a regular drumbeat for Jake.  He does
this on a routine basis, keeping them informed and updated.  I am not in
a position today where I can tell you that we have a deal that is on the
brink of completion; that is not where we are.  But it is fair to say
that we are working this extremely hard.  We do think there’s an
opportunity here to get a hostage deal in place, to get these families
reunited, to get a surge of humanitarian assistance into Gaza.  But
again, there’s an awful lot of work that still has to be done.  Hamas
continues to be the obstacle to that outcome, but we’re pressing on it
really, really hard.

With that, I can take some questions.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our first question will go to Aamer with the AP.

Q    Hey.  Thank you both.  Just had a couple of Syria follow-ups.  Does
the administration have any concerns about Israel moving its troops into
the buffer zone in Golan Heights?  And also, with Israel’s military
operations in Syria, does it have the U.S. blessing to attack chemical
strategic weapon sites?

And then, just finally, you sort of talked about the nexus of Ukraine in
the fall of Assad.  Has the administration, in its interactions with the
incoming administration, been making that argument and perhaps trying to
make the pitch for why there needs to continue to be Ukraine support? 

And if there’s anything generally you could offer on the coordination
briefing of the incoming Trump administration, how that’s gone down with
what’s going on in Syria.  Thanks.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, Aamer, there’s an awful lot
there. 

Look, on the Israeli operations over and around the Golan Heights, I’m
going to let the Israelis speak to that.  I would point you to what
they’ve already said, that these are exigent operations to eliminate
what they believe are imminent threats to their security, and we
certainly recognize that they live in a tough neighborhood and that they
have, as always, the right to defend themselves.  But I’m going to let
them speak to what they’re doing and the particulars of it. 

There is, as you know, a 1974 disengagement agreement that that all
parties have signed up to.  We obviously still support that agreement,
and we’re in close touch with our Israeli counterparts here, as these
things kind of develop.

I will say, just on the chemical weapons piece, I mean, we do know that
Assad had preserved at least some capability that he had proven in the
past willing to use it on his people.  And, look, you know, there’s a
lot of uncertainty right now, as I said in my opening statement, about
how the political situation is going to unfold.  Lots of different rebel
opposition groups involved here.  Not all of them are groups that we
countenance, at least not officially. 

So, we too have concerns about the existence and potential use of
chemical agents in Syria.  So, I think I’d just leave it at that.

As for your question about the discussions with the new team, let me put
it this way: Nothing that we’re doing and nothing that we’re saying
ought to come as a surprise to the incoming team.  We have the ability
and have had conversations with appropriate officials in the incoming
Trump team, particularly about what’s going on in Syria but also what’s
going on in Ukraine and in the Middle East writ large.  So those
conversations have happened.  They are still happening.  And I have
every expectation that, going forward, Jake Sullivan and other leaders
here in the National Security Council will, as appropriate, continue to
keep the incoming team informed. 

They will decide for themselves what policies they might want to keep in
place, what approaches they might want to continue and which ones they
won’t.  I can’t speak for what their prerogatives are going to be.  All
I can speak to is what our prerogatives are, and I kind of lay a little
bit of them out in my opening statement. 

We believe it is in our national security interest that Syria emerge
from this as a stable, secure, sovereign state; that the Syrian people
have a say in determining what that sovereignty looks like, what their
government looks like.  It’s got to be a process that meets their
aspirations as they define those aspirations.  That’s in our national
security interest.

And it’s also in our national security interest that ISIS can’t exploit
it and that the pressure needs to be kept up on that group. 

So, that’s — we’ve been very, very open about that with all of you. 
We’ve been open about it with ourselves.  The President has made sure
that we’re focused on those two national security interests.  And we
certainly have been open about it in our conversations, as appropriate,
with Trump officials that are coming in.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Michael with
McClatchy.

Q    Thanks, Sam.  John, you just mentioned (inaudible) on Austin Tice’s
whereabouts and condition.  Obviously, the President said the
administration believes that he’s alive, on Sunday.  Can you help just
square that circle for us?  How do you know that he’s alive if you don’t
know where he is or his condition?  And do you have high-confidence
sources, like the Tice family has said, telling you that he’s alive and
was being held in the Damascus area?  Thanks.

MR. KIRBY:  Yeah, look, I’m obviously going to be a little careful here,
because, you know, we want to see him back with his family, and I’m not
going to get into intelligence information here in an on-the-record
gaggle. 

I would just tell you that our going assumption is that he’s still
alive; that we have no indication, no information to the contrary.  But
we also don’t have complete information about where he is or what his
condition is.  So, I’m just being as honest with you as I can.  No
indication that he isn’t alive, but also no indication about where he is
or what his condition is. 

And that is why, as I said in my opening statement, we believe that the
developments in Syria could present an opportunity to gain more context,
more information, which could then potentially give us options for how
to move forward.  But the goal remains the same: We want to get him back
to his family, where he belongs. 

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Andrea Mitchell
with NBC.

Q    Hi, John.  Thank you.  With reference also to what the Israelis are
doing, that buffer zone, if you could be a little bit more — do you
think that these are appropriate defensive moves?  Are you at all
concerned, if they’re not temporary, that this could provoke other
reactions from other neighbors?  In particular, what concerns might you
have about what Turkey does with the PKK and others, including the SDF,
whom we support in the northeast region?  Thank you very much. 

MR. KIRBY:  Thanks, Andrea.  At the risk of sounding like a broken
record — again, we support this disengagement agreement from 1974.  I’ll
let the Israelis speak to what they’re doing. 

The only thing I would say differently or additionally to what I said
before on this question to Aamer is that, as things go forward, what we
want to see from all actors inside Syria and outside Syria are actions
that help the Syrian people get to governance that they can believe in
and governance that, again, meets their aspirations.  We don’t want to
see any actor, inside or outside, take actions or do things or espouse
policies or programs that run afoul of that process.  And that’s why the
President is going to stay engaged with our counterparts outside Syria,
and we are going to maintain communications with those inside Syria to
make sure that that’s where we go.

Again, I’d point you back to what the Israelis have said.  This is an
exigent move.  They’ve said publicly that they don’t envision this being
some sort of a long-term set of operations.  And so, I think I’ll just —
I’ll leave it there.  We don’t want to see any actor, again, move
themselves in such a way that makes it harder for the Syrian people to
get at legitimate governance. 

And then, you know, you asked a little bit about the Turks, which is
sort of a tangential thing to what you’re — I think your first question.

Look, number one, the Turks have a legitimate counterterrorism threat
that they too have a right to deal with; they too have a right to defend
their citizens and their territory against terrorist attacks.  And they
have come under those kinds of terrorist attacks in the not-so-distant
past.  So we recognize they have that right, and they’re an important
NATO Ally. 

We have interest, as I said, in going after ISIS, and that means
partnering with the Syrian Democratic Forces.  And that will continue. 
And where those two goals overlap, or potentially conflict, we will have
— as we have, we will have the appropriate conversations with the Turks
about how both those outcomes can be achieved.  And I think I’ll just
leave it there.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to David Sanger with
the New York Times.

Q    Thanks, John.  Two questions for you on this.  First is, there was
a brief reference before to the chemical weapons action that Israel is
taking, and they’ve also announced that they sank whatever there was of
the Syrian navy overnight as well.  Is the U.S. providing intel?  And
obviously, we’ve been tracking their chemical weapons sites for more
years than I can think.  Is there any U.S. help going on to them, even
if it’s just intel support and so forth?

And then the second just goes to your argument that because of the U.S.
actions that have weakened the Russians and the Iranians, and the
Iranians’ inability to strike Israel, you thought that the
administration made it possible for all of this to happen.  I’m sure
you’ve heard the alternative argument here, which is: Had Netanyahu
listened to President Biden’s advice and not attacked Hezbollah, which
we were discouraging him from doing for fear of a wider war, that, in
fact, it’s unlikely that you would have seen Assad fall.  So I was just
wondering if you would just take that head on.

MR. KIRBY:  Yeah.  I’m not going to — as you know, we have robust
intelligence-sharing with Israel, as you might expect we would, and I’m
not going to characterize what that looks like. 

I’ve already kind of responded to the issue about our view of what
they’re doing.  And again, I’d point you back to what they’ve said, that
these are exigent circumstances and non-permanent operations that
they’re conducting.

On the counterargument, as you put it, for going after Hezbollah: Again,
I think you need to take a step back here.  And I don’t think it’s — I
don’t think that anybody should overemphasize one particular operation,
whether it’s against Hamas or against Hezbollah, as being the game
changer here.  It is the sum total of American support for Israel and
their ability to defend themselves.  And it is very much — and this is a
point that I think is getting lost here, David — very much this
ceasefire, in fact, that we mediated between Israel and Lebanon, and
Hezbollah, that sent a strong signal to people in the region that
Hezbollah was done, Hezbollah was out of it.  They weren’t going to come
to Hamas’s assistance, and Iran wasn’t going to be able to rely on
them.  And don’t mistake for a moment that there weren’t groups in Syria
that paid attention to the fact that Hezbollah was no longer in the
fight. 

But I think the fact that in the aggregate we have been robust in our
support of Israel’s right to defend itself, and backing that up with
real arms and ammunition, as well as diplomatic efforts, played a real
role here.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Karen with the
Washington Post. 

Q    Just to (inaudible), as you say, beat a dead horse: On the Israeli
actions in Syria, the U.N. Envoy for Syria gave a very strong statement
this morning about what the Israelis are doing.  They’re both in the
disengagement zone and (inaudible) in Syrian territory itself — I mean,
they’re in Quneitra — and some of the air strikes.  And said, “This has
to stop.”  You said you recognize the disengagement agreement.  You
said, ask the Israelis what they’re doing.  The Israelis have said what
they’re doing.  The question is not what are the Israelis doing.  The
question is does the United States agree with it.

And separately, on the north, Turkey and the SNA have said that their
forces have pushed the SDF out of Manbij and across the Euphrates
River.  The SDF said this morning that that’s not true, that there is
fighting going on in Manbij.  Does the United States believe that the
SDF should just move across the river and let the Turks take that over? 
Or what is our position on that particular (inaudible), not only in and
around Manbij but other places?

MR. KIRBY:  On the first question, Karen, I really — at the risk of just
repeating what I’ve said before, which I’m sure nobody wants to hear
again, I really don’t have anything more to add.  I’ve addressed this
question about Israel’s operations in and around and over the Golan
Heights, and I’m just going to leave it there.

On your second question, we’re not in a position to verify the exact
operational status of Manbij.  We have been in close contact with the
Turks about this, and certainly remain in close contact with the Syrian
Democratic Forces about trying to make sure they stay focused on the
counter-ISIS mission that we are partnered with them on.  That’s our
priority, and we’re going to continue to do that. 

And one of the reasons why we have said publicly in the past that some
of these operations elsewhere along that border, conducted by Turkish
military forces, are problematic is because it does have that risk of
pulling the SDF away from the counter-ISIS mission, which we don’t want
to see happen.  And those are conversations that we’re having with the
Turks as well. 

And as I said in my opening statement, you’re going to see continued
outreach by the national security team with counterparts in the region
about what’s happening in Syria.  And I can assure you that some of
those conversations are going to be with our Turkish counterparts as
well.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Amy with Foreign
Policy.

Q    Thanks.  On the call on Sunday night with a senior administration
official, if I recall, they said that the U.S. has contacts with all
groups in Syria, which presumably includes, then, HTS.  Could you just
give us more detail on what those interactions have been like, what
channels you’re using?  And have you explicitly communicated what steps
you’d like to see from them to see them get delisted as a terror group?

MR. KIRBY:  I’m not going to go into great detail about what the
vehicles actually look like.  There are some opposition rebel groups
that we have communicated directly with for many, many years.  There’s
open lines of communication, and they stay open and we use them. 

Now, there are other groups where we communicate in various other ways,
sometimes directly, sometimes indirectly.  But I don’t think it’s
helpful for me to go into the mechanisms that are in place at this early
stage. 

I would just reiterate what the senior administration official said,
which is absolutely true: We do have ways to communicate with all of
them, and we are pulling on those ways, as you would expect that we
would. 

And then, your second question sort of implies that we’re on a path
towards delisting.  And I would just say that there’s no — there are no
discussions right now about changing the policy with respect to HTS, but
we are watching what they do.  As the President said, Mr. al-Jolani and
others are saying all the right things.  This only just happened within
the last couple of days, so we got to watch and see what they actually
do and the degree to which they make good on their pledges. 

So we’re just not at a point now where we can have a serious discussion
about delisting anyone at this point.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Arlette with CNN.

Q    Thank you.  If I could just touch again on the communications with
these rebel groups.  Has the U.S. specifically spoken with Mohammed
al-Bashir since he’s been named the caretaker, or are there plans to
either directly or through an intermediary?

And you also talked a bit about how there’s coordination with the Trump
team on all of these topics relating to the Middle East.  Does President
Biden specifically plan to speak with President-elect Trump about the
situation in Syria since Sunday?

MR. KIRBY:  I don’t have any conversations with al-Bashir to speak to,
but I’ll tell you what I’ll do: I will take that question.  I’m not
aware of any conversations that anybody has had with him at this early
stage, but I’ll take the question.

And then, I don’t have any additional conversations with President-elect
Trump to speak to at this point.  I would say that we remain in touch
with his key incoming — the people he’s designated as his key national
security team leaders, and certainly that includes Jake’s ongoing
conversations with Congressman Waltz.  But I don’t have any specific
conversations with President Trump to speak to at this time.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Lara with the Wall
Street Journal.

Q    Hi.  Thanks for doing this.  I just wanted to follow up on my
colleague’s question about your discussions with Turkey.  I’m wondering
if you’ve specifically — if the administration has specifically spoken
with them about refraining from attacks on the SDF, particularly in the
northeast.  We’ve seen reports that they’re attacking Kobani today, so
I’m wondering if those talks are going on through diplomatic channels.

MR. KIRBY:  I won’t get into the details of the discussions, Lara, but
as I indicated, we have and will remain in close touch with our Turkish
counterparts to deconflict as best we can and to make clear what we
believe our national security interests are in Syria.  And as I said in
my opening statement, one of those is the counter-ISIS mission, which
does require partnering with the SDF.

Q    And then also, just — I wanted to follow up on the chemical weapons
question as well.  The Israelis have said that they’re making some moves
to ensure that chemical weapons don’t — Assad’s chemical weapons don’t
end up in the wrong hands.  Does the U.S. have any role in this at the
moment?

MR. KIRBY:  I think I sort of dealt with this question a little bit
earlier.  I mean, we’re not involved in the Israeli operations that
they’re conducting.  These are Israeli operations, and I’m going to let
them speak to them.

Again, we remind that the Israelis have made clear these are temporary
measures to ensure their own security.  They have a right to defend
themselves.  And as I said earlier, you know, we certainly share
concerns about the potential existence of and/or potential use of
chemical weapons in Syria.  And I think I’m just going to leave it at
that. 

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Robbie with
Politico.

Q    Hey.  Thanks for doing this.  First, what’s the White House’s view
of how Assad’s fall, if at all, has altered the prospect for hostage
talks with Sullivan going to Israel, even indirectly?

And second, going off of Lara’s question on the U.S.-backed Kurdish
fighters, as you know, the Kurds oversee about 50,000 ISIS detainees and
their families in those camps in northeast Syria.  Are you urging Turkey
to halt — to urge its own militias to halt that offensive against
Kurdish forces?  And is there any fear of instability in the northeast
risking the security of those camps?  Thanks. 

MR. KIRBY:  I’m sorry, what was your first question?  I missed it.

Q    Just on — how has the fall of Assad, if at all, altered the
prospect for hostage talks with regards to Gaza, even indirectly?  You
talked about Sullivan going to the region, possibly new pathways to
negotiations there.

MR. KIRBY:  Well, look, Hamas has got to be looking out at the world
today and realizing that the cavalry is not coming to rescue them.  And
so, one would hope that recent developments in Syria reinforce for them
that they are just increasingly isolated and ought to take a deal. 

So, certainly, when Jake goes to talk about the potential for a new
hostage deal, he goes with, obviously, the developments of the last few
days in the background of all that as context.  And it remains to be
seen whether Hamas will move, but they absolutely ought to move because
there is nobody coming to their assistance.  They can’t rely on
Hezbollah.  They certainly can’t rely on Iran.  And this is the time to
make a deal.  So we’ll see what happens.  They have consistently been an
obstacle on that.

And then, on your second question, we are absolutely concerned about
these detention facilities in Syria.  They’re not — you mentioned some
in the north and the east.  There’s actually some in the north and the
west as well.  Some of these detention facilities do house ISIS
fighters, largely of a lower level, but nevertheless ISIS fighters.  And
so, we are talking to all of our counterparts, including the Turks,
about the status of those detention facilities and about our collective
concern of the potential for them to be opened up or for people to be
able to get out. 

Now, I will remind — or maybe you know this — I mean, most of them in
the east are run by the SDF, who are our partners.  And so, you know, we
know we can rely on their ability to continue to properly safeguard
those facilities, the ones that are in the east.  But it is a concern,
no question about it, and it’s part of the conversations that we’re
having.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Keleigh with
NewsNation.

Q    Hi, John.  Thanks for taking my question.  Kind of following up on
President Biden and then President-elect Trump, both on, you know,
foreign policy, kind of talking about different developments, either
with Syria or in other places, I’m just curious how this may affect or
have an impact on the remaining 41 days or so of President Biden trying
to cement his foreign policy legacy.  So, this in regard to Syria as
well as in other conflicts.

MR. KIRBY:  I’m not really sure how to answer that one, except to say
that, as I sort of mentioned at the beginning, we believe that
developments in Syria very much prove the case of President Biden’s
assertive foreign policy and our constant and unrelenting support for
partners and allies.

One of the things that he started doing at the very beginning was
revitalizing alliances and partnerships that, as we came into office, we
believed had been let to lapse, or disrespected or ignored, and he
turned that around to a fare-thee-well.

We have closer relations in the Indo-Pacific than we’ve ever had before
and improved trilateral cooperation between Japan and South Korea.  We
have the AUKUS deal, which is now putting Australia on a path to a
nuclear-powered submarine.  NATO is bigger and stronger than it’s ever
been before.  And where there weren’t alliances, President Biden created
coalitions to get things done, such as the 50-plus nations to go support
Ukraine and the 20-plus nations that are helping us in the Red Sea
defend against Houthi attacks against commercial shipping. 

I think what the President is focused on with the time that he has left
is continuing to use this assertive foreign policy and the advantage
that our alliances and partnerships give us to see better outcomes. 
We’re starting to see bet- — well, you know, certainly it’s early goings
in Syria, but we believe that this assertive foreign policy has impacted
events in Syria.  It remains to be seen where it’s going to go, but also
to finish

so many of the things that we started, and one of those things is to try
to get a ceasefire deal — or, I’m sorry, a hostage deal with Hamas. 

But, I mean, my goodness, just since the election, you know, we’ve
brokered a ceasefire with Lebanon, between Israel and Lebanon.  And he
cemented a huge economic opportunity in Africa with the Lobito rail
corridor, which you all probably saw last week.  And we secured deals
with China on artificial intelligence.  And we brought additional people
that were wrongfully detained from China back home.  And all this is
just since, you know, Election Day. 

So what the President is focused on is, with the time he has left,
continuing to move these balls forward.  And again, I think you’re going
to see that. 

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Danny with the
AFP. 

Q    Hey there.  Thanks for that, Admiral.  Just a couple of things. 
Firstly, at the G7 virtual meeting this Friday, what is the President
going to be discussing with the other leaders in terms of Syria?  Are
they going to be coming out with some kind of agreement on backing a
transitional government, for example? 

And secondly, just wanted to ask what you guys think of the fact that
the possible incoming Director of National Intelligence previously met
with Assad.  Thanks.

MR. KIRBY:  Syria and Ukraine will absolutely be on the agenda for the
G7.  We’ll have more to say about that agenda as we get a little closer
to the end of the week.  So I don’t want to steal anybody’s thunder, but
you can bet that those two topics will be front and center.  And again,
we’ll have more to share. 

I’m not going to comment on individuals that the incoming team and the
President-elect are — that he’s looking at or has announced for various
jobs.  That’s not our place here at the National Security Council. 
We’re focused, as I said earlier, on certainly, in the national security
space and the foreign policy space, executing on the President’s agenda
and trying to finish out the time we have left in the strongest way
possible. 

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  And unfortunately, we only have time for one
more question because we’re about to get kicked out of our room.  So,
over to James Rosen.

Q    Okay, thank you so much, Sam.  And thank you, Admiral.  I actually
have two questions. 

First, senior administration officials have acknowledged that the fall
of Aleppo to HTS came as a surprise to the U.S. intelligence community. 
What accounts for that intelligence failure?  And from where did HTS,
apparently under the nose of our intelligence community, acquire all of
its weapons, training, and funding?  That’s the first question. 

MR. KIRBY:  You want to go with number two first, or you want me to just
take that one?

Q    If you would take that one, please. 

MR. KIRBY:  I’m not going to talk about intelligence issues here in this
gaggle, James.  As I said, we’ve been watching events unfold here for
more than a week in Syria.  We’ve been staying abreast of it as best we
can, keeping the President abreast of it. 

No doubt that things have moved quickly.  I’m not going to deny that one
bit.  And we believe, as I mentioned to David Sanger — we believe that a
factor in the fast nature of this was, in fact, that the ceasefire deal
between Israel and Lebanon, that that sent yet another strong signal to
folks in the region that Iran’s so-called Axis of Resistance was a lot
weaker than people had anticipated.

Q    Before I go to the second question, you have nothing you want to
say about where HTS derives its support from? 

MR. KIRBY:  I’m not going to get into that at this point. 

Q    Second question: I want to follow up on what David Sanger asked you
and give you an opportunity to defend President Biden and his legacy,
but also take issue with some of what you’ve had to say here so far. 

This notion that the Biden administration played this indispensable role
in creating and handing over to the incoming administration a vastly
revamped Middle East marked by Israeli triumphs over Iranian proxies,
and this corresponding diminution in Iranian power and capability. 

From the Israelis’ perspective, contrary to what you said, which was
that President Biden’s support has been unflagging and unrelenting, it
has, in fact, flagged and relented at various points.  To wit, President
Biden himself publicly proclaimed Israel’s response to the October 7
attacks to be, quote, “over the top.”  He withheld at least one arms
shipment from the Israelis, and he used the world stage repeatedly to
denigrate and otherwise criticize Prime Minister Netanyahu and his
conduct of these conflicts. 

Indeed, much of what the Israelis have done that has served to weaken
Iran has been done against the advice and warnings of Mr. Biden and his
national security team.  So my question is this: Isn’t it disingenuous,
at a minimum, for the Biden team to be crowing over this checkered
record of support for our closest strategic ally in that region?

MR. KIRBY:  No.

Q    You don’t want to address anything else or the fact that he said it
was over the top, the fact that he withheld an arms shipment from them,
the fact that he’s been so critical, the fact that he advised against
the very offensive against Lebanon that you’re now saying was so
critical to the fall of Assad?

MR. KIRBY:  I don’t think your (inaudible) merits a response, James. 
It’s just wrong on so many fronts.  And I’m not going to belabor
everybody’s time by going through it point by point. 

This is the President who put fighter aircraft up, not once but twice,
to defend Israel.  No president has done that before.  No president has
gone to Israel while they’re at war, like President Biden has done.  And
no president has done more to send shipments and arms to Israel so that
they can continue to defend themselves. 

I could go on and on, because the premise of your question is just so
incredibly wrong, but I’m not going to do that and waste everybody’s
time.  If you and I — you want to have a conversation, I’m happy to talk
to you offline on this.  But, my goodness, there is so much wrong with
your question, it just befuddles me.  And I don’t have the time to
address it right now.

MODERATOR:  Okay.  Thank you, James.

That is all the time we have for our gaggle today.  I know we have a lot
of hands still raised.  I’m so sorry we weren’t able to get to you. 

As always, reach out to the NSC press distro, and we’ll try to get back
to you as soon as we can.  Thanks, everyone.

11:29 A.M. EST
