---
date: '2024-12-19'
modified_time: 2024-12-19 11:02:26-05:00
published_time: 2024-12-19 05:00:00-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/12/19/press-call-by-senior-administration-officials-on-the-u-s-nationally-determined-contribution/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Call by Senior Administration Officials on the U.S. Nationally Determined\_\
  Contribution"
---
 
Via Teleconference

2:03 P.M. EST

MR. FERNÁNDEZ HERNÁNDEZ:  Hi.  Good afternoon, everyone.  Thank you for
joining today’s embargoed press call.  This press call will begin with
on-the-record remarks from White House National Climate Adviser Ali
Zaidi and Senior Adviser to the President for International Climate
Policy John Podesta.   
  
After the remarks, there will be a question-and-answer period, which
will be on background and attributable to “senior administration
officials.”   
  
The contents of this call and the related materials you all should have
already received over email are embargoed until tomorrow, Thursday,
December 19th, at 5:00 a.m. Eastern.   
  
With that, I will turn it over to Ali.

MR. ZAIDI:  Thanks so much.  And thanks, everybody, for joining us.

Under the Paris Agreement, countries are called on to develop nationally
determined contributions — NDCs — that collectively advance global
progress on climate change.

In April 2021, the United States communicate — communicated its most
recent nationally determined contribution.

When we did, we were cognizant of the baseline, a business-as-usual
trajectory that projected 15 to 20 percent emissions reductions 2030
relative to 2005 levels.

Under President Biden’s leadership, against that backdrop, we set an
ambitious path — a new target for the United States that sought to
reduce emissions by 50 to 52 percent in 2030.

In the time since, the United States has deployed a paradigm-shifting
strategy that has both accelerated decarbonization and also expanded
economic opportunity and economic growth.

We found a way to take on a global problem that was decades in the
making, with an approach that makes a visible difference in communities
right now — a chance to deliver cleaner air, lower costs, better jobs,
and a real sense of pride and purpose.

The U.S. strategy is manifest in the investments from the Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law and the Inflation Reduction Act and in a
complementary architecture of federal standards that spur demand and
generate the regulatory certainty needed to accelerate capital formation
and encourage entrepreneurial risk-taking.

It is an important combination that has changed the equation: Climate
action is no longer about gloom and doom but about hope and
possibilities.

Catalyzed by these incentives, fiscal and regulatory, our partners have
come together to swing for the fences in every sector of the economy. 
Looking for wins everywhere — power and transportation, buildings and
industry, lands and agriculture — gives us a better shot at sticking the
landing and at delivering for everyone.

The coming together is key.  The robustness of the U.S. strategy comes
from an approach that has mobilized public and private, at every level
of government and every layer of the capital stack, in a tech-agnostic
race to net zero as our North Star.

You can see this, as I have, not just in communities across America but
as business leaders, mayors, governors, Tribal leaders, have joined
every single United Nations Conference of the Parties since the
president took office.  In Glasgow, in Sharm, in Dubai, and in Baku,
these leaders showcased the efforts of the United States of America, of
all our capacities and capabilities working together. 

Today, together, we set a new ambitious target for America — the United
States communicating a new nationally determined contribution under the
leadership of President Joe Biden.

The United States — all of us working together — will reduce our
emissions by 61 to 66 percent by 2035, relative to 2005 levels — all
greenhouse gases covered, every sector of the economy reached.

This entire range is on a linear or steeper-than-linear trajectory to
net zero by 2050, meaning that America will do its part to keep 1.5
degrees alive.

Today, the U.S. is adding more capacity to its grid than it has in
decades.  Ninety-six percent of that electricity will be clean.  Helped
by clearer rules and faster permitting, pioneering offshore wind farms
are delivering clean power, retired nuclear plants are coming back
online, America is racing forward on solar and batteries — not just the
deployment but also the means to stamp those products “made in America.”

Today, the U.S. is mining everything from nickel to the lithium,
upgrading it, making the anodes and cathodes and the separators for
batteries manufactured by union workers in factories that had once shut
down. 

From laggard to leader, the U.S. is in the race again on electric
transportation — a way to get from point A to point B without putting
pollution in the sky or putting our kids and their health at risk.

Today, the U.S. has over 80,000 farmers and ranchers, over 75 million
acres, advancing climate-smart agriculture practices; millions of
families benefitting from energy efficiency upgrades; and countless new
factories on the fore of clean materials, like clean steel and cement,
in areas once seen as too hard to decarbonize.

In fact, across the country, we see decarbonization efforts to reduce
our emissions in many ways achieving escape l- — velocity — an
inexorable path, a place from which we will not turn back.

These proof points show what is possible when we set an ambitious target
— informed through rigorous engagement with the techno-economic data —
with federal agencies and scientific experts from across civil society,
when we take stock of all that is possible when all of us work
together. 

These proof points also show the massive prize — more good jobs, better
public health, increased energy security, bolstered economic
competitiveness — if and when we meet this new 2035 climate target.

We are excited about the ambition laid down by the president in this new
NDC, and we are confident that, working together, the United States can
achieve this goal.  And this progress that we continue to see here
across the country is positioning America to lead and continue to push
the ambition all around the world.

And with that, appropriately, let me hand it over to my partner and to
the senior adviser for international climate policy here at the White
House, John Podesta.

MR. PODESTA:  Thanks, Ali, and thanks to everyone for joining today’s
call.

President Biden’s new 2035 climate goal is both a reflection of what
we’ve already accomplished, as you’ve heard from my colleague, and what
we believe the United States can and should achieve in the future.

Thanks to the Inflation Reduction Act and the Bipartisan Infrastructure
Law, we’re on a path to achieve the goal President Biden set in 2021: to
cut our emissions in half by 2030.

We’re working to slash pollution from every sector — power, buildings,
transportation, industry, agriculture, and forestry — and we’ve ignited
a clean energy boom across the country: north, south, east, and west.

Since President Biden and Vice President Harris took office, the private
sector has announced over $450 billion in new clean energy investments. 
Those projects are getting built as we speak.  They’ll keep creating
good-paying jobs, and they’ll continue to reduce emissions.

Because we’ve implemented a government-enabled but private sector-led
strategy, our investments under this administration are durable and will
continue to pay dividends for our economy and our climate for years to
come, allowing us to set an ambitious and achievable 2035 target.

And in this NDC, we’re being explicit about a methane reduction of at
least 35 percent in 2035, showing that the U.S. is maximizing our
ability to tackle the climate crisis by targeting all greenhouse gases,
including the super pollutants.

The Biden-Harris administration may be about to leave office, but we’re
confident in America’s ability to rally around this new climate goal,
because while the United States federal government under President Trump
may put climate action on the back burner, the work to contain climate
change is going to continue in the United States with commitment and
passion and belief.  That’s not wishful thinking; it’s happened before.

In the wake of COP22 in Marrakesh and President Trump’s decision in 2017
to pull the United States out of the Paris Agreement, the “We Are Still
In” movement was born in the United States.  It’s now grown into the
most expansive coalition ever assembled in support of U.S. climate
action, with more than 5,000 businesses, local governments, Tribal
nations, universities, and more, covering all 50 states.

That coalition, now called “America Is All In,” represents nearly two
thirds of Americans, three quarters of U.S. GDP, and half of U.S.
emissions.  Governor Inslee of Washington and other subnational leaders
came to COP29 in Baku last month to share the same message with the
world.

We’re looking to governors, mayors, business leaders, and more to carry
this important work forward, because the rest of the world will now be
looking to them to show how many Americans still care about the future
of our planet and our communities.

The truth is, U.S. climate leadership has motivated the world to move
faster.

After President Biden set an ambitious 2030 climate target in 2021,
Japan, South Korea, Australia, Canada, Mexico, and others delivered
stronger, more ambitious targets.

Once we passed the IRA, other countries — like Japan, Australia, the EU,
and the UK — adopted our government-enabled, private sector-led strategy
to investment in clean energy. 

I’ve spent a significant amount of time this year engaging in productive
dialogue with my Chinese counterpart, Liu Zhenmin, and other leaders of
the PRC government to encourage the — and I would note, the Pe- — the
People’s Republic of China is now by far the world’s largest emitter —
but I’ve encouraged them to submit a 2035 NDC target that is aligned
with a 1.5-degree world that is economy wide and covering all greenhouse
gans- — gasses in the range of a 30 percent cut off their peak
emissions.

And at COP29 last month, we saw the UK, the UAE, and Brazil announce
new, ambitious climate targets early and a coalition of leading — of
leaders — including the European Union, Mexico, Chile, and others —
committed to setting NDC targets that reflect a linear, steeper pathway
to net zero, which is critical for 1.5 degrees.

Our new commitment meet — meets that standard. 

Subnational leaders in the United States can continue to show the world
that American climate leadership is determined by so much more than
whoever sits in the Oval Office.

It happens on the ground, in our cities and states, from Phoenix to
Pittsburgh, from Boise to Baltimore.  And I believe that with this new
2035 target as their North Star, leaders across Amer- — America can show
the world that we are still in this fight for a better future.

Thank you, and let me turn it back to Angelo for your questions.

MR. FERNÁNDEZ HERNÁNDEZ:  Thank you, John.  And thank you, Ali.

As a reminder, we will be moving to the question-and-answer portion of
the call.  Please use the “raise hand” function, as so many of you are
already doing.  We love to see some excitement.   
  
As a reminder, this will be on background and attributable to “senior
administration officials.”

With that, I will start with Jennifer.  You should be unmuted now.

Q    Thanks for doing this and taking my question.   
  
Just a quick clarification, because we haven’t seen the actual NDC
submission yet.  I’m curious what kind of language it will include on
fossil fuel transition.

And then, you know, there was some discussion, obviously, of the
incoming president and his plans.  How much downward revision did you
all do from the final target based on your assessments and expectations
just prior to the election, which I understand were around 65 percent?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks for the question.

On the first, our nationally determined contribution will reflect the
U.S.’s unwavering commitment to the Dubai consensus and to carrying that
forward, and you’ll see that reflected in our submission to the United
Nations.

On the second, this is a dynamic exercise.  And what we’ve really
focused on is what are the multiple pathways to accelerate
decarbonization across the economy while continuing to grow jobs and
attract private capital.  The fundamentals of that exercise, where that
economic opportunity lies, largely remain the same: are formed by the
techno-economic trends that we see prevailing, notwithstanding outcomes
in elections. 

The next four years will neither pause the impacts of climate change,
nor will the next four years pause the continued acceleration in
technology improvement and availability across every sector of our
economy to decarbonize.

MR. FERNÁNDEZ HERNÁNDEZ:  Thanks, \[senior administration official\].

We will go to Lisa next.  You should be unmuted now.

Q    Thanks so much for doing this.  I appreciate it.

To what extent does this target consider that, you know, a future
Democratic administration could reimpose regulations o- — you know, on
power plants or automobiles and the like?  And, you know, similarly, I
mean, if a Republican is elected again in 2028 — which would give us
eight years without federal regulations, at minimum, and other things —
can states meet this on their own?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Great question.  We have, you know, in
the United States, a track record of continuing to reduce our emissions
when administrations that don’t prioritize climate or clean energy at
the federal level are in charge.

In fact, the AIM Act, which helped drive down over a hundred million
metric tons of emissions from hydrofluorocarbons, was passed in 2020,
signed into law by the previous administration.

We have seen the tax code help accelerate private investment into clean
energy deployment during Republican administrations and Democratic ones.

And it’s worth noting that — setting aside some of the more recent
rhetoric around climate — that historically this has been an area of
bipartisan focus.  And even in this last few years, after a party-line
vote to pass the Inflation Reduction Act, Democrats and Republicans came
together to ratify Kigali.  Democrats and Republicans came together to
help accelerate the deployment of nuclear technologies in the United
States. 

Those are bipartisan bills from the last two years, and I think they
give us proof points that there is possibility even at the federal
level.

To go to your analytical question of “what happens if,” this NDC is
based on an analytical underpinning that actually allows us to carry
forward this level of emissions reduction, largely propelled by state,
local, Tribal action, as well as what we are seeing from the private
sector and in terms of technology cost reductions.

America is going to claim the biggest share of the economic prize that
comes from the clean-energy economy if we have a federal government that
leans in and does what’s best for our economy, our people, and the
environment we will hand to future generations.   
  
But the lower end of what we have laid out can largely be carried out
without significant additional effort at the federal level.  That’s not
where we should aim as a country, but analytically, we’ve grounded in
multiple pathways, many of which do not rely on significant additional
federal action.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  (Inaudible) let me — let me add a word
on this.   
  
I think what we’re both saying is the direction of travel is firm.  Of
course it matters who’s elected president of the United States and the
level of ambition.  I think that’s particularly true in the
international sphere where — the president’s leadership by rejoining
Paris; by convening the MEF; by putting forward an ambitious NDC in
2021, by both pledging to come forward and raise the level of bilateral
assistance in the international sphere to $11 billion, which we met this
year — those things matter.   
  
The direction of travel is firm.  We’re moving in a direction that is
going to invest in clean power, in clean transportation, and reduced
emissions from the industrial sector.   
  
The pace is, of course, at issue.  And I think what \[senior
administration official\] was just noting is that, given the weight in
those states that, as I noted, have such a strong history of innovation
and strong contribution to the overall GDP of this country, we’re going
to see emissions reductions.  We can achieve the goal that the president
is putting forward with that action.  But, of course, with strong
leadership in the Oval Office, we can — we can do that and more.   
  
And it goes a little bit to Jen’s earlier question.  We did take account
and consulted closely with those economists and modelers who work
extensively with our subnational partners in trying to put forward an
ambitious NDC, but one that’s also realistic.  
  
  

MR. FERNÁNDEZ HERNÁNDEZ:  Thank you, \[senior administration
official\].  We have time for a few more questions.   
  
We will go to Sara next.  You should be unmuted now.

  
Q    Thanks.  Thanks for doing this.   
  
So, I guess just a question on the Trump administration.  The
president-elect has been quite clear that he intends to roll back and
make great efforts to not continue forward momentum on all the — a lot
of these climate policies.  So, why release this NDC?  
  
And just to clarify, I believe there’s been quite a bit of modeling that
shows the U.S. is still short of reaching the 50 to 52 percent target. 
So, how does it pencil out to increase it by this much?  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks for that, Sara.   
  
So, a lot to unpack there.  First, on the emissions trajectory for 2030,
the U.S. will also be submitting a report to the U.N. — the BTR.  This
is our sort of biennial review of our progress relative to our goals.   
  
There is progress that we anticipate will continue to sort of make as a
result of technology improvements, states continuing to promulgate new
policies.  So, there’s, I think, both the means and the need to fill the
gap. 

But what we have found in our latest analysis is that we are very much
positioned to close that gap.  The trajectory right now reaches up to 45
percent — 45, 46 percent, which leaves, as you know, some additional
work to do over the next, essentially, five years to close the gap.  And
that work — I think, part of what you heard from both me and from
\[senior administration official\] is that work is not just propelled by
the climate imperative but by a strong set of economic interest to race
to close the gap.   
  
The second is, you know, underlying the first part of your question is
this notion that one administration can somehow pause the progress we’re
making or reverse the direction in which we’re traveling or close off
the ability of the collective of state, local, Tribal actors and the
United States private sector from moving to where it really wants to
head over the next decade.   
  
And I think that just doesn’t — we haven’t seen that play out as federal
policy has zigged and zagged in the past.  Instead, what we’ve seen is
laying out a clear, analytical, and informed target has been animating
of all of these actors running in the direction of further
decarbonization and economic growth.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  I think — look, Sara, I think it — it’s
important we’re — we are members of the Paris Accord and of — and it’s
important to signal to subnational actors, as \[senior administration
official\] just noted, what we think ambition looks like and what people
need to work and strive for and to set off that virtuous cycle of
investment and enhanced ambition.  And it’s important to do that across
the globe to show that the United States has the means and the will, at
least at the subnational level, to continue to be constructive players
in the system and to move the world forward, because I think in every
conversation, you know, I’ve had, people understand the stakes that we
currently face: the effects of extreme weather, the burden on human
security, the ability to deal with the consequences of — that we’re
already seeing and that are only going to get worse on climate change. 

So, laying out this marker, I think, is, as has been noted, important to
the private sector, to subnational actors to give people a guide star. 
That — that occurred, as I — as I said, during the last Trump
administration, and I think it will occur now.  But it’s also an
important signal to the world about what the United States can do, even
in these circumstances, and will do because of the drive, commitment,
and resources available at the subnational level. 

MR. FERNÁNDEZ HERNÁNDEZ:  Thank you, \[senior administration
official\]. 

We will go to CNN next.  Ella, you should be unmuted now. 

Q    Hi, everyone.  Thanks for doing this call and for taking my
question.   
  
I wanted to ask about the differences between this NDC and some of the
independent analysis that’s been done.  I know that there’s a lot of
different analysis out there, but I’m looking at the University of
Maryland.   
  
You know, basically, their high-ambition pathway kind of lines up with
what you all have here, but when federal action is taken out of the
equation, you know, it falls — it falls lower to 54 to 62 percent
emissions reductions by 2035.  And so, I just wanted to ask about, you
know, the difference between some of this independent analysis and the
NDC here. 

And secondly, just wanted to ask about how important the IRA — I know
that we don’t know exactly the future of it, how much it will get clawed
back — but just how — how important that is in all of this.  Thanks.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  So, two — two things I want to maybe
point out, Ella, in the first part of your question.   
  
The first is the expectations around what state and local actors can
help drive in the economy.  The University of Maryland analysis is
really, I think, unique in helping compute that, bring together those
capacities and capabilities and put them into the model.   
  
As you noted, in their own analysis, when you take out additional
federal action and you really make state and local governments be the
load-bearing beams, in that — in that set of scenarios, they themselves
forecast an ability of the United States, working together, to reach in
the — up to 62 percent.   
  
So, I think that, in some ways, is reinforcing of the theory we’ve laid
out here, which is that the state and local governments can actually
carry a great deal of ambition.

One of the, I think, big factors that distinguishes, I think, our
analytical work from — from some of what is out there is a real
engagement with the technology — the sort of techno-economic cost curves
and projections empowered by what our national labs know and have been
able to collect — in some cases on a proprietary basis — with technology
providers and firms in the field.   
  
That, to — to us and to our process, has actually provided an even more
robust sense of what is achievable if the federal government is largely
stagnant or even putting some downward pressure. 

This all sort of avoids the possibility and, I think, the — frankly, the
real demand over the next several years for the federal government to
actually do things that will be climate enhancing. 

There is a Farm Bill debate that must get engaged over the next year or
maybe two that will pose the question: Will the United States government
continue to stand with those 80,000 farmers and ranchers, or will we
pull a critical revenue line out of those family businesses; where
lawmakers will have to answer the question, as the Europeans and others
race towards a trade system that prioritizes cleaner products, will the
United States invest in our economic competitiveness to make sure our
firms are well positioned for that global race — a hard-to-decarbonize
sector that’s actually moving ahead around the world?

So, I — you know, I think the combination of what I think UMD very
uniquely and smartly has done to understand and catalog the capacities
at the state and local level paired with our sense of what is happening
and potentially could happen from a techno-economic perspective actually
gives us a sense of real robustness in the range that we have put
forward. 

Of course, the higher ends of this range require the federal government
to do what a responsible federal government would do in the face of an
existential risk and the biggest economic opportunity the world has ever
seen to invest in America.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  \[Senior administration official\],
anything you want to add?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks.  I think \[senior
administration official\] did a great job of laying all that out. 

I will say that even in that UMD analysis, there is another scenario,
which was kind of along the lines \[senior administration official\] was
just talking about, showing a 65 to 67 outcome as well.  So, there is
some documentation there, if people are interested. 

Thanks.

MR. FERNÁNDEZ HERNÁNDEZ:  Great.  Thank you.  And thank you, everyone,
for joining us.  That’s all the time that we have today.

As a reminder, the contents of this call and the materials you received
over email are embargoed until 5:00 a.m. Eastern tomorrow. 

Thanks again for joining us. 

2:35 P.M. EST
