---
date: '2024-12-06'
modified_time: 2024-12-08 22:41:05-05:00
published_time: 2024-12-06 22:40:41-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/12/06/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-75/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine\_Jean-Pierre"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

2:24 P.M. EST

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Hello.  Good afternoon, everybody. 

Q    Good afternoon.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Give me a quick second here.  Packed room.  I wonder
why.

Okay.  I have a quick thing at the top, and then we’ll get going. 

On Tuesday, the president will deliver a speech in D.C. on his economic
record and legacy, including his transformative investments in America,
rebalancing the scales of our country in favor of workers, lowering
costs for everyday necessities, and creating a small-business boom. 

Just today, we learned more than 220,000 jobs were created last month,
making this the only presidency in 50 years to have job growth every
single month. 

Over the last four years, the president has rejected trickle-down
economics and written a new economic playbook, playbook that builds the
economy from the middle out and bottom up, not the top down.  This is a
strong foundation for years to come. 

As many of you have reported, including the Associated Press, Trump will
inherit an economy primed for growth.

And with that, Associated Press, you have the first question. 

Q    Thanks, Karine.  Is the president considering blanket pardons for
either individuals or groups of people who are fearful of potentially
being targeted by the incoming Trump administration?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, I’m not — I’m not going to — to get ahead of
— of the president, but what I can say is that the president is
reviewing other pardons and commutations. 

And I do want to lay out a little bit of the history — the — the history
the president has taken over the last almost four years, actions that
he’s taken, because it’s important to note that the president has so far
issued 20 individual pardons and 122 commutations.  He’s issued more
sentence commutations at this point in his presidency than any of his
recent predecessors at the same point in their first terms. 

This is in addition to groundbreaking categorical pardons that the
president issued to address marijuana possession, convictions — military
convictions in the LGBTQ+ community.  And as recently as April, if you
go back a couple of months, the president issued 11 pardons, 5
commutations for individuals convicted of nonviolent drug offenses who
demonstrated a commitment to rehab- — rehabilitation. 

So, there certainly will be more to — to say, just more broadly
speaking.  And as you know, commutations and pardons are usually done
when it’s the — when it’s the president’s final — final term, around —
historically, around the holidays.  And so, certainly, there’ll be more
to come. 

Anything outside of that, I would say that, you know, I’m not going to
get into deliberations — private deliberations.  I’m just not going to
get ahead of the president. 

Q    And are preemptive pardons on the table as the president goes
through with this process?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m just not going to — I’m not going to get into —
get ahead of the president.  Certainly, the president is looking at, you
know, reviewing next steps, and there will be more to come.  I’m just
not going to get ahead of the president.  I’m not going to get into
hypotheticals from here. 

Q    And then a different pardon question. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Sure.

Q    In your first briefing here as press secretary, you committed to
speaking to the American people, and I quote, “in a transparent way” — 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — “in a truthful way, and an honest way.” 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yes. 

Q    And then, in July, here at this podium —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — you were asked about the president pardoning his son, and you
said, “It’s a no.  It will be a no.  It’s a no.”

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yes.  And that — (laughs) — that is exactly right.

Q    So, clearly in the case of — of the president’s son and that pardon
—

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — it became a yes. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    I’m wondering if you would like to explain to —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — us, the American people, really, why the information that you
provided —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  And I —

Q    — turned out not to be true?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  And I — and I answered this question on Monday.  We
spent about 30 minutes on this — almost 30 minutes — roughly 30 minutes
on this particular issue.  And I’m just going to reiterate what I said
in Air — on Air Force One to your colleagues when I did the gaggle.

And, look, if you look at his statement, it’s pretty comprehensive — the
statement that he put out on Sunday when he made this decision to pardon
his son, Hunter Biden.  It — it’s in his own voice.  I think it takes
you through his thinking.  And he did — he wrestled with this.  He
wrestled with this.

And, again, he said in his statement in his own voice that he made that
decision this past weekend. 

And the fact is, when you think about how the president got to this
decision, circumstances have changed.  They have.

And a couple of things — and I said this — I said this on Monday as
well.  Republicans said they weren’t going to — to let up, weren’t going
to stop.  Recently announced Trump appointees for law enforcement have
said on the campaign that they — they were out for retribution.  And I
think we should believe their words, right?  We should believe what they
say. 

The sentencing was coming up, as you all know.  There was a sentencing
coming up.  And the president said this in his statement — that Hunter
and his family had been through enough.  “Enough is enough.”  And he
wrestled with these circumstances — these changing circumstances,
ultimately. 

And the combination of that — the president changing his mind and
issuing — certainly led to the president changing his mind and issuing
this pardon. 

And one thing that I do want to point to, which I think is important, is
what Congressman James Clyburn said when he was interviewed.  He said,
“I am absolutely okay with it.  I don’t know how many people urged him
to do so, but I did… He seemed to be reticent about it.”  This is what
Clyburn said when he spoke to the president two weeks ago.  “But I
emphasized” — continuing his — his quote — “emphasized the fact that we,
as fathers, have obligations to our children.”

So, that was a conversation that the congressman himself had with the
president two — two weeks ago.  Said that the president was reticent
when he encouraged the president to do so.

And this weekend, he thought about it and he weighed — he — it was not
an easy decision to — to come to, and he put out a comprehensive —
comprehensive statement.  And I would certainly, you know, offer that up
to folks out there who are wondering.  I would say, “Please read the
president’s — president’s response to this in full.”

Q    I’m sure my colleagues have a few follow-ups, so just very
specifically, though, I’m —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  It’s not only colleagues who — who watch this. 
There’s also the American people.

Q    I — exactly.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  To be — to be fair.  So —

Q    Exactly.  And they were told by you in July —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — that this would not happen.  And it did.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  Yeah.

Q    Do you — I’m saying, asking for yourself — not the president’s
statement, but for yourself — do you feel like are owed apology — an
apology by the president? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I just —

Q    Do you owe an apology to the American people?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Zeke, I — I just laid out the president’s thinking. 
The president laid it out himself in his own words.  He did.  He laid
out how he wrestled with this decision.  He said in his statement — as a
president, as a father, he talked about how difficult it was to make
this decision. 

He thought about it this weekend.  He did.  He thought about it this
weekend.  He wrestled with it.  And there are some, you know, factors —
some real factors that he took into consideration.  And that’s why I
keep saying, folks should just take — take a — take a look.  Take a
look.  Read — read his statement.

And I know what I said.  I know what the president said.  That is where
we were at the time.  That is where the president was at the time.  I am
his spokesperson. 

This weekend, he thought about it, he wrestled with it — he wrestled
with it, and made this decision.  That’s what I can tell the American
people.

Q    Why should they —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  And I think —

Q    — have any confidence —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  And then —

Q    — in anything else —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, I —

Q    — that you say?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — I — I think the American people understand, and I
think they understand how difficult this decision would be. 

And I would actually add — and I think it’s important to note here, as
you’re asking me these questions — important questions to ask — that
there was a poll — a <s>U.S. Gov</s> \[YouGov\] poll that came out, that
some of you all reported on it.  And it said 64 percent of the American
people agree with the pardon — 64 percent of the American people. 

So, we get a sense of where the American people are on this.  Obviously,
it’s one poll, but it gives you a little bit of insight.  Sixty-four
percent is nothing to sneeze at. 

But, again, the president talked about this.  His own words.  He said
this weekend, he wrestled with this.  This weekend, he thought about
this, and he made this decision. 

And let’s not forget, we can’t — we can’t also forget what some of the
legal experts and former prosecutors have all agreed on — many across
the country have virtually said no one would be criminally prosecuted
with felony offenses with these facts, and they’ve all agreed.  We’ve
heard from many legal experts on this. 

You heard me quote the U.S. — the former attorney general, Eric Holder,
multiple times — I think about eight times on Monday — “No U.S. attorney
would have charged this case given the underlying facts… Had his name
been Joe Smith, the resolution would have been fundamentally and more
fairly a declination.  Pardon warranted.”

And we’ve heard from many legal experts, and also former — obviously, a
former U.S. attorney.

Okay.  Go ahead. 

Q    All of those things you laid out were known long before
Thanksgiving.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    And many Americans, in reflecting the 64 percent, certainly
understand a father’s point of view.  But the president was
declarative.  You were declarative.  You didn’t give room for “depending
on the outcome of the election” or “depending on the rhetoric coming
from the potential next administration.”  The certainty with which the
president and you portrayed —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — the “no pardon” is part of where the question comes from —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — because all the facts that you have outlined were well known in
advance. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  And I would add, there has been some circumstances
that have changed this.  Right?  Republicans not letting up, saying they
won’t stop; they’re going to continue to do this.  I mentioned the
recent Trump appointees of legal enforcement positions — right? — that
said during the campaign they would have — they — they were out for
retribution.  And so, no reason to not take them for their word.  I
point to that. 

There was a sentencing coming up, as you all know.  There was —

Q    That was well known.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — I said there are multiple factors here.  Not one
thing — not one thing led to this.  Multiple factors.  And I think if
you look at all of these, it’s a combination of reasons why the
president wrestled with this over the weekend and made this decision.

Q    Now that you’ve had time —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — and the president has had time to absorb how the public has
responded to this —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — to think on it further, does he have any concerns about the fact
that he had been so declarative and then granted this pardon?  What —
you know, it’s clearly done —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  And — and —

Q    — and many — many Americans understand, as a father —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — how he would do that. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No —

Q    But does — does he have concern about his credibility or the impact
it might have —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  You know —

Q    — on future pardon decisions?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So — and I will also say — just to bring up Clyburn
again, because I think it’s important — right? — because you were asking
me what we said over the summer — Clyburn spoke to the president two
weeks ago, and the president — he said — this is Clyburn’s words — words
— the president was “reticent” when he encou- — tried to encourage him
to pardon Hunter Biden.  And I think that is — his son, obviously.  And
I think that’s important to note. 

Look, I would refer you back to the last couple of sentences in his — in
the president’s statement, and I think it’s important here, where he
talked about wrestling this and wanting to — wanting to — understanding
that the American people are fair — fair-minded, and talked about the
importance of doing this and thinking about this over the weekend and
coming to this decision, and how he wrestled with it. 

And that was, I think, a message directly to the American people.  The
whole — obviously, the whole comprehensive statement was something that
he wanted to share with the American people.  But I think the way he —
the way he ended his statement actually acknowledges and wanted to be
very clear to the American people his own personal thinking about this
and understanding that they would look at this and he believed they
would be fair-minded about it. 

And this was not easy for the president.  It wasn’t.  It wasn’t.

Because you all mentioned the statements that we have made over the —
over the summer.  So, obviously, this wasn’t easy —

Q    I guess my question is: He could have reserved —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — to come to this decision.

Q    — the right to consider it later.  And — and when he is that
declarative —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — as the president of the United States —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  It —

Q    — that’s where it carries weight.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, I understand.  And Kelly O., you know this
president.  You followed him during his vice presidency, right?  You
have covered him.  When he is asked a question directly, he answers it
directly. 

Q    Okay.  So, we are where we are. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    So, does he regret that he had misled the public about what would
eventually happen?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, what I will say is he laid out his thought
process.  He talked about the underlying — the underlying facts of the
case.  He thought it was a very important — that was part of the first
paragraph of his statement — wanting to explain and — and talking about
the gun charges — right? — talking about the tax cases and wanting to
make sure that they understood, like, these types of things would not be
a normal — a normal reason to — to prosecute.  Right? 

Virtually no one would be criminally prosecuted with felony offenses
with these facts, whether it’s — absent aggravated factors, similar
charges are rarely brought.  When you think about gun charges, the tax
cases, such as Hunter’s, when taxes are rap- — repaid with penalties are
merely — are rarely criminally charged.  They are handled civilly. 

And these are the things that the legal experts also agreed with him
on.  And so, he wanted to lay that out for the American people as well. 

And I, you know, don’t have anything else to — beyond what the president
laid out — his thinking in his — in his written statement, in his
words.  I just don’t have anything beyond that. 

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks.  The president has also faced real swift criticism from
members of his own party around this pardon.  I mean, Democrats have
called it a setback, a mistake, said that they’re worried Republicans
will use this against Democrats in the future.  Has the president felt
the need to respond directly to any of his Democratic colleagues around
their criticism of this move?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, what the president is going to focus on —
and you’ve heard us say this — is running through the tape.  He’s going
to focus on the American people.  He’s going to continue to deliver
historic progress every day.  That’s going to be his focus. 

And if you think about his legacy more broadly, it includes getting us
out of COVID.  It includes bringing the economy back.  It includes
beating Big Pharma.  It includes making sure that we had infrastructure
investment that we’re able to do in a bipartisan way.  We’re talking
about not just actions that the president has taken that people are
going to feel today but for generations to come. 

And so, that’s going to be his focus.  I think folks in his party are
going to have a lot of thoughts on this, obviously, but there have been
— there have been — we’ve heard quotes and support from many — from many
elected officials. 

I just mentioned Jim Clyburn.  There was Senator Dick Durbin.  He said,
“It’s a right given to the president, a power given to him under the
Constitution, and Joe Biden is using it in a very humane way.  I think
Hunter Biden has been exploited for political purposes.  It’s not the
first time.  It won’t — it won’t be the last time in American history. 
But I can certainly understand Joe Biden standing up and saying that he
wants to protect his son.” 

Nancy Pelosi, when she was asked about this particular issue, she said,
“I support the president.” 

Representative Jasmine Crockett, “I think that it was the right move.” 

And there’s been others who have — in the Democratic Party, part of the
leadership, and others — who have supported this president and his
decision. 

Q    Just real quick, though.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    When you — when the president is saying that he believed it was a
political prosecution, does it make it easier for incoming Trump to also
say that he’s pardoning January 6th rioters because he believes that
those are political prosecutions?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, I’m not going to get into what the incoming pr-
— administration is going to do or not do.  That’s not something that
I’m going to speak to.  I’ve been pretty consistent about that since the
election.  We’ve been very clear about where we stand on January 6th. 
And so, I’m not going to get into that. 

But I think — and you all, some of you, have reported this — Republicans
have been very — his political opponents in Congress have been very
clear about this.  The president talks about this again in his own
statement about how they took credit for bringing — for bringing
political pro- — political pressure on the process when it came to
Hunter Biden’s plea deal.  And so, they took credit for that when it
fell apart.  They took credit for that. 

And they have said they’re not going to stop.  And so, again, I’m not
going to point to one particular reason for the president making this
decision.  There has been changing factors that led him to where he
decided, weighted this decision over the weekend.

Q    And then just re- — really quick, where Zeke started about the idea
—

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — of preemptive pardons.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    You clearly didn’t rule that out.  You confirmed that the White
House is really considering that in your response to me.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — I — that’s not — I — that’s — I’m not confirming
anything.  I’m just saying I’m not going to get ahead of the president
on this issue. 

Q    But just —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  There’s a process.  I’m — I’m not —

Q    Are you ruling out the idea —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m not — I’m — I’m —

Q    — of preemptive pardons?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  What I’m saying is I’m not getting ahead of the
president.  I’m not.  There’s going to be — he’s going to make — make
announcements on pardons and commutations.  That is something every
president — historically, presidents do, especially at the end of their
term.  And so, that normally happens around the holiday.  So, you could
expect the president making a decision. 

What I can talk to and speak to is this particular pardon this — a
couple of days ago, of his son, and what he’s been able to do.  I laid
out some historic actions that the president has taken when it comes to
pardons, when it comes to commu- — commutations over the past four
years, as recently as this past April. 

I — I’m not going to get into hypotheticals here.  I’m not going to get
into the president’s thinking. 

Q    Well, it’s not hypothetical.  Ha- — have people come and asked the
president for —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, I —

Q    — a preemptive pardon —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well —

Q    — because they’re worried about —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.

Q    — a potential prosecution from the —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, what I can say is —

Q    — Trump administration?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — we have seen from advocates — right? — who are — who
have been very public in lobbying the administration for — for certainly
— for pardons and — and clemency, commutations.  We’ve heard from them. 
You all have seen it.  So, obviously, we have heard them. 

I’m just not going to get into specifics of what we’re going to do, not
do.  I’m not going to get ahead of the president.  And I think you can
understand that — that process that we’re going to keep going. 

Go ahead, Tam.

Q    Yeah, thank you.  You mentioned that there is a process.  I would
love if you could spell out exactly how that process is working.  Is it
in conjunction with the Justice Department? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    Who at the White House is handling it?  And then, you could answer
whether the Hunter one was inside or outside of that process, but let’s
start with the process.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, no, I actually answered that question on
Monday.  The president made the decision on the par- — on the pardon for
Hunter Biden.  The White House reached out to the Department of Justice
because that has to be filed with the Department of Justice.  It was the
president’s decision.  There was no consultation with the Department of
Justice.  As you know, the — the president has the right to do this. 
So, that was a — obviously, a very separate process. 

As it relates to more commutations, more pardons, that process,
obviously, the Department of Justice is involved in that.  There’s a
review process.  And so, that’s the — that’s how we’re going to move
forward on — on making those types of decisions. 

Q    And who at the White House is leading it up?  Is it out of the
Counsel’s office or is it the chief of staff?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, look, obviously, the White House Counsel will —
will be part of this process.  I just don’t have anything beyond that. 

Q    And just quickly, President Trump is going to be in France this
weekend —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — for the reopening of the Notre Dame, also meeting with President
Macron.  How does this White House view President Trump’s meetings with
foreign leaders happening while you’re still here?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, look, it’s not unusual, as you’ve heard us say
before.  You’ve heard the National Security Council say as well.  I
think Jake Sullivan, when he was asked this question — our national
security — the president’s national security advisor — made — made that
same comment.  It’s not unusual for — when there is a president-elect,
for heads of states, foreign leaders to want to have that conversation
with the president-elect.  So, I’ll just — I’ll just leave that there. 

Okay.  Go ahead.

Q    Thank you, Karine.  Just follow-up to Tamara’s question: Why isn’t
the president of the United States going to go to the reopening of the
Notre-Dame de Paris?  Why not?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So — so, just — as you know, the first lady is
attending, and she’s attending as part of her larger travel swing to
Italy, UAE, and Qatar.  So, she will be representing the
administration. 

They were both invited to — to be there for the o- — reopening of the
Notre-Dame.  The president has a — had a scheduling conflict, which is
why he was not able to — able to attend.  Any specifics on the first
lady’s trip and what that’s going to look like, I certainly would refer
you to the first lady’s office. 

Q    But the president was invited?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, he was.  He was.  There was scheduling conflict,
which is why he decided not to attend. 

But the first lady is there, and — and he’s very proud that she’s there
representing us.

And anything further on her visit, certainly I would refer you to — to
their office. 

Q    I also have a question — thank you, Karine.  And I also have a
question on the Canadian foreign min- — the Canadian foreign minister
today launched the new — Canada’s new Arctic foreign policy to face
Russia, China.  Four years later and with a successor who seems to be
skeptical, how does the president see Canada’s involvement in — in
mutual defense and international issue — international crises?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, the president values our strong partnership
with Canada and their leadership to this particular announcement on
addressing major challenges of our time, such as combat — combating
climate change.  As you know, the president has taken that issue very
seriously by putting forth one of the most historic piece of legislation
that really deals with climate change in a way that we’ve never se- — we
— we have not seen any other administration deal with it. 

Canada’s contribution, as we — as you all know, to Ukraine’s defense and
<s>Multilateral</s> \[Multinational\] Security Support mission in Haiti
have been consequential.  And so we value the Canadians’ cooperation in
securing the Arctic region, and that is peaceful, stable, and prosperous
and cooperative, and — and so, again, we value that strong partnership. 
And I think they have shown leadership.  Many things that they have
certainly partnered with us in the past four years. 

Okay.  Go ahead.

Q    Thank you, Karine.  On Syria.  As you know, armed groups are
closing rapidly on many Syrian cities and against the Assad regime.  How
does the White House see the outcome or the best outcome?  And what
messages do you have to the regime in Syria?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, we’re closely monitoring the situations in Syria,
and have been in — in const- — in contact with the countries in the
region.  And the NSC put out a statement just last weekend,

“The Assad regime’s ongoing refusal to engage in the political process
outlined in UNSCR <s>2054</s> \[2254\], and it is rel- — it is — and its
reliance on Russia and Iran created the conditions now unfolding,
including the collapse of Assad regime lines in northwest Syria.”  So,
“the United States, together with — with its partners and allies, urge
de-escalation, protection of civilians and minority groups, and a se- —
and a serious and credible political process that can end this civil war
once and for all with a political settlement consistent with UNSCR 22- —
20- — 2254.”

And so, we’re going to continue to, obviously, defend and protect U.S.
personnel and U.S. military.  That is the president — that has been
always very clear about that.  And so, obviously, U.S. personnel and
U.S. military, they — they remain essential to ensuring that ISIS can
never again resurge in Syria.  But more broadly, to — to answer your
question, we’re going to closely monitor the situation in Syria. 

Q    But since this statement, I mean, developments are happening so
fast.  The cities after cities are falling.  So, maybe by the weekend,
we’re talking about — maybe the Assad regime is not going to be there
anymore.  So —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, I’m not going to — I — I’m not going to get into
hypotheticals of what’s going to happen the next couple days or — or how
it’s going to play out. 

What we are doing — we’re monitoring the situation.  We’re taking this
very seriously.  You saw the statement from the National Security
Council just this past weekend.  We’re going to continue to stay in
contact with countries in the region. 

And so, that’s what I can say that we’re going to do: continue to be in
touch, continue to mor- — monitor.  I don’t want to get into
hypotheticals from here. 

Q    And one last thing?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Sure.

Q    As you know, the Russians have been supporting the Assad regime
since the beginning, but today they said they’re going to play a limited
role in (inaudible).  Is this a welcome kind of statement from the White
House that the Russians say they’re not supporting the regime the way
they did in the past?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, I’m not going to get into what the Russians are
doing or not doing. 

What we’re going to do is monitor this really closely.  We’re going to
continue to talk with our coun- — with the countries in the region.  And
remember, as you — as I just stated, we have U.S. personnel on the
ground.  We have U.S. military.  It is important to the president that
we continue to make sure that they’re safe — their safety is — is
considered here.  I’m just not going to get into what Russia’s have —
what the Russians have said and what they’re going to do or not do. 

Q    Thank you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  Zeke asked this question; I just didn’t hear an
answer.  The next time that the president says he will or won’t do
something, why should the American people believe him?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I answered that question.  I don’t have anything else
to add. 

Q    What — what is your answer?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — I answered the question. 

Q    Can you — can you explain in a way —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I answered the question.

Q    — that’s understandable?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — well, I — I can’t speak to you understanding the
question or not or my answer or not on this.  I — I don’t have anything
else to say. 

I’m not going to relitigate this.  I — I did this on Monday for 30
minutes.  I went back and forth.  I laid out — I said please read the
president’s really comprehensive statement on this.  And I even said,
the last paragraph of that statement, he talks directly — directly to
the American people.  And that’s how I answered that question.

Q    Can you acknowledge that it may have been a mistake by the
president, you to say multiple times, unequivocally, that he would not
pardon his son?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  The president laid out in that statement what changed,
why his mind ch- — mind changed, how he wrestled with this decision. 
The president laid that out.  I don’t have anything else to add. 

Q    So, that statement, he said, in part, “I believe in the justice
system, but as — as I have wrestled with this, I also believe raw
politics has infected this process and it led to a miscarriage of
justice.” 

Just to understand that sentence — I think it’s important —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, for sure.

Q    — is it sure that the president believes in the justice system,
except in some cases?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  He believes in the justice system.  He believes the
facts are — the facts are — obviously, I talked about the gun charges,
what legal experts have said, former <s>prosecutees</s> \[prosecutors\]
have all agreed virtually no one would be criminally prosecuted for
underlying factors of Hunter’s case.  I talked about the gun charges.  I
talked about the taxes — the — the tax cases. 

And there are other factors here: what Republicans have said as they
weren’t going to let — let up.  I talked about the upcoming sentencing
and what Hunter and his family have been through.  I talked about the
app- — appointees by the incoming president on law enforcement
positions.

And he wrestled with it.  He did. 

And I also talked about what Jim Clyburn said.  So, you’re asking me
about an apology, but Jim Clyburn said himself, in a conversation that
he had with the president just two weeks ago, the president said — he
said the president was reticent when he encouraged the president.  When
he himself, Jim Clyburn, encouraged the president to move forward with
it — Co- — Congressman Clyburn — the president responded to him by
saying he was — he was reticent. 

And so, this was not an easy decision.  It wasn’t.  It wasn’t an easy
decision.  And, you know, it was a lot of circumstances here, and — and
we can’t — we can’t pass over what legal experts and former U.S.
attorneys have said on this.  You know, and across the country, they’ve
all basically agreed, virtually — virtually no one would be criminally
prosecrated — prosecuted with felony offenses with these facts.  And I
have gone through the — on the two — two important underlying facts of
the cases. 

And, you know, I just don’t have anything beyond that to add or to say. 
You know, I’ve laid out our thought process.  The president has laid out
his thought process.  And we’ve talked about the case.  We’ve talked
about his thinking.  And I just don’t have anything beyond that. 

Q    The president just got back from a multiday trip to Angola, where
he engaged the press, I think, literally one time, just to quickly
confirm that he was getting briefed on the situation in Korea. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  Yep.

Q    His last foreign trip, it was six days in South America.  As you
know, he didn’t engage reporters during that trip.  After that last
trip, you told us in this briefing room that he believes in the value of
engaging the press.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    He enjoys it, you said.  He will continue to engage —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — reporters.  There will be opportunities to talk to him.  So, why
is it that he is —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — avoiding reporters?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, we got — we still have 45 days left in this
administration.  The president does — he does believe in the free- — the
freedom of the press, right?  He believes in that. 

I think we have shown in the last four years bringing back the norms of
engaging with all of you.  We have respected that process.  I hope you
guys think that, that we’ve tried to do the best that we can to do that.

And the president is goi- — he does.  He really does enjoy having a
back-and-forth.  And when the president and — I do want to say he did
take a moment to have a back-and-forth with all of you when he was in
Nantucket with some of your colleagues who traveled with him.  He did
take some questions there.  So, it’s not like he hasn’t taken questions
at all.  He did have a — a — he did do a gaggle when he was in Nantucket
around the holiday and took some questions. 

And so, he’ll continue to do that.  And, look, he was really focused —
and many of you have asked me this question.  He was focused on his last
OCONUS.  He had the G20 — the last G20.  He had the APEC, which was all
incredibly important.  Wanted to focus on his engagement with leaders,
heads of states.  He did that. 

The trip to Africa, as you all know, was a promise that he wanted to
keep, and it was a great trip with very substantive discussions.  And we
were able, again, to present — to show his global leadership. 

And so, I would say to all of you, you will hear — you certainly will —
will hear from him in the next 45 days. 

Q    Do you consider it upholding norms for the president to basically
not engage the press in at least two back-to-back foreign trips?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  What I would say is up- — upholding norms is what we
have been able to do in the last four years.  And I would encourage
folks to look at the four years more broadly and what the president has
been able to do and what the president ha- — has engaged with all of
you. 

And, again, we — I would say, especially from here, we have always
respected and want to continue to respect the freedom of the press and
have a healthy back-and-forth.  And that is the norm that I think, yes,
we brought back — we brought back into thi- — from this administration. 

Go ahead, Karen.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  A U.S. official said that the administration won’t
be able to use up the nearly $7 billion in military aid that Congress
had approved for Ukraine before the president leaves office.  How much
money do you estimate that will still be left when the president
leaves? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    And is the president concerned that the incoming administration is
not going to get that out the door to Ukraine?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, as you know, back in September — September 29th —
the president — we put out a statement.  The president was very clear
about wanting to surge — surge resources into Ukraine and wanted to make
sure that they had everything that they need as what was happening on
the ground — a situation on the ground, circumstances on the ground —
was changing.  And our commitment has been very steadfast. 

You have seen us, since that date, continuing to make announcements on
assistance going towards Ukraine.  I don’t have a number for you or an
estimation of how much money would be left or not left in the next —
after — well, we’ve got 45 days, as I just mentioned. 

I would refer you to the Department of Defense to get that specific
number.  But we are committed to getting the money out the door.  We are
committed to make sure that Ukraine has the resources that it needs.  As
you know, we have led that.  This president has led, certainly, that
charge globally in making sure that Ukraine has the support; making sure
50 countries get behi- — have gotten behind Ukraine; making sure NA- —
the NATO alliance is stronger than it’s ever been before.

And I think you see that commitment from this president.  And so, we’re
going to continue to surge that.

Q    But with this acknowledgement that there will be funding left when
he leaves —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — and given that this has been such a top priority for the
administration and for this president, is he worried that when he
leaves, that the incoming —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — administration is going to leave this money on the table and not
get it out?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  And so, look, again, I’m trying to be really mindful
not to get into hypotheticals on what the pr- — the next administration
is going to do or not do.  We got to let that process move forward. 

What I will say and remind folks that we got that funding in a
bipartisan effort, right?  That’s how we were able to get that funding
to make sure the — the resource were — resources were getting into
Ukraine.  And so, that was done in a bipartisan way. 

And we can’t take Russia off the hook here, right?  They are the
aggressors here.  They are the ones that went into a sovereign
territory.  And, again, we say this all the time, this war can end today
if Russia would stop their aggression. 

But, again, it was done in a bipartisan way.  We can’t forget that.

Go ahead, Jeff.

AIDE:  Karine, you have time for a couple more.

Q    Thank you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.

Q    Karine, before the election, the Senate passed a bill that would
have added an additional 60 judges to the judiciary. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Mm-hmm.

Q    That bill is now going to the House, and there are some Democrats
who are now not supportive of that bill because it would mean
President-elect Trump would have an additional 60 judges to fill. 
What’s the — or judge spaces to fill. 

What’s the administration’s view on that bill? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    Would the president sign or veto it?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  And so, I — I need to talk to the president and Office
of Leg Affairs about this.  I have not had that discussion about this
particular bill. 

As you know, we have been pretty — pretty aggressive and steadfast in
getting our nominated judges — qualified judges through in the Senate
process.  And so, we have been able to steadily do that over the past
couple of weeks. 

On this particular legislation, I just need to — to talk to the team.  I
don’t want to get ahead of them.

Q    All right.  And one more on pardons.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Sure.

Q    With — having pardoned his son, some of the criticism that came
from the left — including, I believe, Black Lives Matter — was that
Black men have been unfairly charged and imprisoned and don’t have
fathers who have the ability to pardon them. 

Does the fact that the president has pardoned his son, who was convicted
by a jury and did plead guilty on the tax charges, put pressure on the
president or does he feel pressure to do an even greater number of
pardons this time around for — for people who don’t have that privilege?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, there’s a process.  The president is going to go
through it.  I’m not going to get ahead of him.

But, again, I — I do want to — I — I hope folks don’t forget what the
president has been able to do, the actions that he’s been able to take
over the last four years.  I — I went through them.  Just to — to touch
on them a little bit: He’s issued 20 individual pardons, 122
commutations.  He’s issued more sentence commutation at this point in
his presidency than any of his recent predecessors at the same point in
the first term. 

This is in addition to the groundbreaking categorical pardons that the
president issued to address marijuana possession convictions and
military convictions in the LGBTQ+ community.  And let’s not forget what
he was able to do in April: 11 pardons, 5 commutations for individuals
convicted of nonviolent drug offenses who demonstrated a commitment to
rehab.  And so, there’s going to be more to come. 

But what the president has done, he’s shown his commitment to making
sure that — that he — he takes these pardons, as he has over the last
four years, in a way that is important for communities that you just —
you just spoke to, and he’s talked about the criminal justice system. 

He’s talked about — you know, he’s taken actions in a way that we can
address with the inequalities of the criminal justice system. 

And I would say that this president’s commitment has been very clear on
this and has been very, again, continued — has been very steadfast and
has made a difference — has made a difference.  

There’s going to be more to speak to in the upcoming weeks.  And so,
certainly, the president will address it.

Q    Does he have a — does he have a response to that kind of criticism?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, again, I just laid out what the — the actions —

Q    But my question is, like, does —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, I — I don’t —

Q    — does he get that some people feel that their sons and daughters
deserve the same?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  And so, I will say, you know — and I keep going back
to his comprehensive written statement, because he speaks to his thought
process.  Obviously, I’ve said this mul- — many times.  He speaks to
wrestling with this.  He speaks to the underlying factors, as I’ve
mentioned many times from here.  And he speaks to how Republicans have
politically gone after his son over and over again and continue — and
continue to say they’re not going to stop. 

And you’ve heard from legal experts who have said that if his —
basically, if his — if his name was — was Joe Smith —

Q    I got all that.  I’m asking about these other people —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — and I — I —

Q    — who are also in jail and were also convicted.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Right.  And I — I’ve answered that by talking about
the actions that the president has taken.  I’ve answered that by
pointing to the president’s statements, him wrestling with this and
laying out his thought process.  It was in his own words. 

And, you know, you’re asking — you also asked me if there were going to
be additional pardons.  There will be.  There’s a — we’re reviewing it. 
We’re trying to figure out the next steps in this, and you’ll hear from
the president on this in the next couple of weeks. 

And — but we can’t — we can’t put aside the important notes that I made
about the actions that the president has taken on issues and matter — on
issues that matter to the community. 

And, again, I said this is — he’s taken — he’s issued more sentence
commutation at this point in his presidency than any of his recent
predecessors at this time — at this same point in their first terms. 
That matters. 

He’s taking this very seriously.  And so, you know, that’s what I hope
folks would take from that: a president that’s been very serious, that’s
been tak- — that’s taken actions. 

And that’s how I’m going to answer that question.

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  When you’re standing there at the lectern, you are
White House press secretary speaking on behalf of the president,
conveying his thoughts and the views of the administration.  And it’s
for that reason that you said on his behalf all those times that he had
no plans to do what he did on Sunday.  Has he expressed any regret to
you directly, personally, for having put you in this position —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  You know —

Q    — and now having to go back on it?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I — look, I understand this question.  And you started
off — I think the way you started off — the question is basically how I
feel, right?  And I think all of us who work in this administration — I
work for the president.  I speak for the president.  I — I comment on
behalf of what he feels and thinks, and that’s my job.  That’s my job as
the press secretary — the White House press secretary — the person who
speaks on behalf of the president of the United States.  And that’s how
I feel. 

Q    But does —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I feel like it’s my — 

Q    But did he apologize to you?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — look, there’s no apology — apology needed — maybe
to answer that question.  No apology needed. 

What I will say is this is a president — you’ve heard me talk about the
legal experts.  What they have say — said, how they agreed with the
president in — in taking this action.  You’ve heard me say that over and
over again.  I’ve laid out quotes from different U.S. attorneys,
prosecutors who really laid out how the underlying factors of Hunter’s —
Hunter’s case would not lead to what had occurred in the past several
months.

And I will also say this, and you heard this president say this many
times before.  He believes when it comes to his family, when it comes to
how he moves forward about thinking about his family, they’re the
beginning, the middle, and the end.  And he wrestled with this.  It was
not an easy thing for him to decide.

There’s a reason why I keep bringing up Congressman Jim Clyburn.  It is
because this is someone who spoke to the president just two weeks ago
and encouraged him to do so — to pardon his son.  And at the time, the
congressman said, two weeks ago, that this president was reticent.  So,
obviously — obviously, he wrestled with this. 

So, no apology needed from him to me.

Q    One of the other things he often says is that voters should trust
his, quote, “word as a Biden.”

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    Should they still?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yes, the president is — the president —

Q    I mean, this was a pretty big —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I —

Q    — defiant public pronouncement by him that he wasn’t going to do
this, and he did it.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — I hear you and I understand, but the president
wrestled with this.  He truly did. 

And, you know, I — I called out the <s>U.S. gov.</s> \[YouGov\] poll
where 64 percent of Americans — that’s not a small number — agree with
the president’s decision to pardon his son.  And I think that gives you
a little bit of a tiny window of where the American people are on this.

Q    He — he sidestepped a judge and a jury’s decisions on the cases
involving his son.  He criticized the political nature of the
prosecution.  The next president has spent the last several years vowing
to upend the Justice Department and the FBI.

Looking at their current and future presidents, why should any American
continue to have confidence in the American justice system?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, the president does have confidence in the
American justice system, and he said that in his statement — certainly
continues to have confidence in the Department of Justice. 

What he —

Q    But they see two leaders who —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Wha- — o- — okay.

Q    — single out incidents that involve them or their families and say,
“Well, they’re not being fair to me —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Can I — okay, can I —

Q    — but the rest of you should agree with it.”

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Can I — can I just be very blunt here?  The situation
with Hunter Biden and what the incoming president has said are very
different.

Q    But they’re making similar arguments —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, y- — but —

Q    — which is that they’ve been unfairly prosecuted —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I —

Q    — because of who they are.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  But — but I don’t think — I don’t think those two
things are the same.  I just don’t.  I don’t — they’re not the same. 
They’re just not.

And — and I think the American people understand that.  I do.  I do
think they believe and understand that they’re not the same.

What the president’s son had to go through and what we’ve heard from
legal experts — former U.S. attorneys general — who look at this case,
who understand this case, and have said this would not virtually — there
would not be this situation, and I think that’s important to note as
well.  And they’ve been very clear about this.  We’ve heard from many of
them.  Legal experts, former U.S. attorneys from across the country,
again, have all agreed: Virtually no one would be criminally prosecuted
with felony offenses with these facts.  I talked about these facts as it
relates to the gun charges and tax cases that — that — obviously, Hunter
Biden’s case.  And so, that is — you take their word for it.  You can
take their word for it. 

Okay.  Wa- —

Q    (Inaudible.)

Q    Oh, wait.  Wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait, wait.

Q    (Inaudible.) 

Q    Bring that back.  So, Debra Tice just told the National Press Club,
from a significant source in our government, Austin Tice is alive.  Is
that what they were told today here at the White House?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have anything to share about conversation on
this particular matter. 

What I can say, though, is that —

Q    Because there was a meeting here today at the White House with her
—

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, exactly. 

Q    — with the family.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  The national security advisor to the president, Jake
Sullivan, did have a meeting with Austin Tice’s family this afternoon. 
And — and Jake Sullivan has regularly met with the families of
wrongfully detained Americans, so this is in line with what he has been
able to do. 

And so, we’re going to continue to make sure that we get Americans who
are wrongfully detained — or Americans home to their families.  You’ve
seen that.  I think you’ve seen that commitment truly from this
administration, what we have been able to do — certainly in last several
months — over the past four years, and we’ve brought home 75 unjustly
detained around the world. 

So, we work around the co- — clock.  We partner, obviously, with our —
with partnership with our allies and we negotiate the release of
Americans. 

I don’t — I don’t have anything to say about that particular statement,
but I — you know, obviously, Austin Tice’s family — I don’t even — I
can’t even imagine what they’re going through right now as they think
about Austin Tice, as they, I’m sure, have continued to hope and pray
for Austin to — to come home to them. 

And what we have been committed to is making sure that Americans get
home.  Seventy-five Americans unjustly detained around the world — we
have been able to do that because of this president’s leadership.  And
so, I think that matters, and I think that shows the president’s
commitment.

(Cross-talk.)

Q    Karine.  Karine.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.  Go ahead. 

AIDE:  (Inaudible.) 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I know.  Yeah, we got to go.

Go ahead.  Yeah. 

Q    Thanks, Karine.  So, soon after the president announced the
ceasefire deal between Israel and Hezbollah, President-elect Trump’s
team immediately, you know, claimed credit for it.  Just last week,
there was a video out, you know, released by Hamas, of one of the
hostages.  Is the White House working with the Trump team to negotiate,
you know, the hostage crisis?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, what I can say is we’re going to continue to work
24/7, as we have, day and night, to secure a deal and — that would
certainly free the hostages, bring about a ceasefire in Gaza. 

And so, we have been in touch with the president-elect’s team to ensure
that they’re aware of our efforts.  And so, we believe they are
supportive of them — the president-elect’s team.  And these
conversations have been constructive.

But we have been doing the work for some time.  Right?  We’ve been
working around the clock in getting that done.  And so, that’s what
we’re going to continue to focus on. 

Okay.  All right.  Thanks, everybody. 

(Cross-talk.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Thanks, everyone.

3:13 P.M. EST
