---
date: '2024-12-03'
modified_time: 2024-12-04 07:09:52-05:00
published_time: 2024-12-03 23:56:00-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/12/03/background-press-gaggle-on-the-lobito-corridor/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Background Press Gaggle by a Senior Administration Official on the Lobito\
  \ Trans-Africa\_Corridor"
---
 
Luanda, Angola

MODERATOR: Thank you all for joining for this gaggle. Everything will be
attributed to a senior administration official, embargoed until 10:00
p.m. local time.

For your awareness, but not for your reporting, our SAO is \[senior
administration official\]. \[Senior administration official\], we’ll
turn it over to you for a few words at the top, after which we’ll take
some questions.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: All right, thank you.

So, as you know, the President is going to travel to Lobito, Angola,
tomorrow. I’ll go through kind of a little bit of the schedule and then
go into more of the details.

He’ll arrive in Lobito. He’ll be joined by — at the Port of Lobito and
be joined by President Lourenço of Angola, as well as the presidents of
Zambia and DRC, as well as the vice president of Tanzania.

They will tour the port. From there, they will travel by car to a grain
facility — production facility of a company called Carrinho — I’ll
explain a little bit later who they are and what they are — where he
will tour the facility. It’s an agribusiness company. He’ll tour the
facility by the founder and CEO, Nelson Carrinho.

He will then, at that facility, will also meet and get briefed by a
number of other company leaders of companies that the United States has
financed here in Angola and along the Lobito Corridor, such as Africell,
who, if you’ve been traveling around Angola, you’ve seen a lot of their
signs. They’re a mobile telecommunications company, a U.S. company that
just a couple of — a few years ago, there was only a monopoly here of
the state-owned company. They entered with U.S. financing support.
Today, they have a significant market share already. They are also
expanding beyond Rwanda to make sure that people in rural Angola can go
from 2G to 3G. 2G is no data; 3G is with data.

And actually, we’re going to — we will be announcing shortly some
financing for them — package financing for them to support their growth
into both neighboring countries along the Lobito Corridor and to
expanding to 5G here in Angola.

There, he’ll also be greeted by the CEO of Sun Africa, which is a
company that has received financing from the Export-Import Bank of the
United States. They are building something along approximately 700
megawatts of solar power, in addition to some storage and mini grids.
This is the largest U.S. investment in solar power in Africa, here in
Angola. It will mean that Angola will have not only a significant
portion of its energy from clean sources, but also give the ability to
export clean energy to its neighboring countries.

He’ll also be meeting with a leader from a company called KoBold — it’s
with a K; K-O-B-O-L-D, as in David — which is a mining company in
Zambia. Initially, it’s an American company backed by a number of U.S.
well-known financial institutions, including Bill Gates’s Breakthrough
Ventures. And they made a discovery, a copper discovery in Zambia. It
was one of the largest copper discoveries. As you all know, copper is
extremely important for both the chips development, as well as for
electric vehicles and expanding the grid, which we will need because of
the expansion of data centers.

He will also meet a leader from a company called Acrow Bridge. That’s
A-C-R-O-W. They are based in Milton, Pennsylvania. They make
pre-fabricated steel bridges, so it’s American steel, American jobs.
It’s a unionized company. And they then deliver those bridges here in
Angola. I believe the contract is for 186 steel bridges to be delivered
here in Angola, and hopefully will expand their operations elsewhere.
It’s a great story of creating jobs in America to deliver good
commercial benefits here in Angola and in Africa writ large, again,
receiving some commercial financing from U.S. government institutions.

After he visits with all these companies, he will then join a roundtable
hosted by President Lourenço and President Biden, together with the
presidents of Zambia, the DRC, and the vice president of Tanzania, and
with, in addition, the CEO of the AFC, which is the Africa Finance
Corporation, who is a partner in both leading the project, the Lobito
Corridor project, a rail project, and is a — well, my understanding is
will likely make a financial announcement — financial commitment
announcement to the phase two of the project.

So why are we going to Lobito? Why is the President going to Lobito? So,
the Lobito Corridor really is anchored in the Lobito port itself, which
is the gateway in and out of Africa for the critical minerals industry
and now for agriculture.

The premise behind the corridor is to be able to take American support
and financial capabilities that are admittedly limited and to focus them
more deeply in one area versus spreading that financial support and
effort across many countries. So, instead of a little bit of human and
financial resource across the whole continent, choosing corridors where
we can have the largest impact.

The Lobito Corridor was the test case for this approach, not just for
Africa but globally, and has been a very successful proof point in that
theory.

The rail is a refurbishment of a rail that goes from the Lobito port all
the way to the border of the Democratic Republic of Congo and nearby the
border of Zambia, and extends all the way to eastern Congo. This means
that a cargo of cobalt or copper that takes about 45 days to get from
eastern Congo or Zambia to the market by going through Durban, South
Africa — by truck, it takes about 45 days. This will take somewhere in
the 40 to 50 hours to go the same distance. That is a remarkable not
only cut in time, but cut in cost and the ability to get to market,
which will then serve to cut the cost, eventually, of batteries and EVS
or chips, et cetera.

So that is the first piece of what the Lobito Corridor does.

The reason the mining industry is so important in this is because by
booking capacity in this rail, it makes it more financeable, more
commercial. Nothing in what is happening in the Lobito Corridor is aid.
It is all about making things commercial, financeable, and for-profit so
that they’re actually sustainable for a long period of time and has the
ability to have maintenance on it and so on.

So, getting the critical minerals out is not only an objective to help
the United States diversify the supply chain, but it also means that now
higher-standard companies from around the world are coming back into the
industry in Africa for the first time. So, for many years, the
higher-value companies were leaving, and instead, the mining was being
done by companies who perhaps have lower standards across — whether it’s
labor, environment, transparency, corruption — and now you’re starting
to see higher-end companies with a better set of standards. KoBold is a
good example of that. There are others now that are in final
negotiations to come back into countries that they left only recently.

But once we wanted to work on the corridor, the President wanted to make
sure we weren’t doing this on one issue alone of critical minerals, but
rather how do we use this to raise GDP and support for countries along
the corridor. What you’ll see is, beyond the investment that I just
discussed, like Africell and the others, laying fiber-optic cable in
Angola and along the rail to expand Internet connectivity, faster
connectivity across a larger swath of land.

Countries that are land-locked, like Zambia and DRC, to a large degree,
have a hard time raising their ability to feed themselves and to bring
products to not only international markets, but even to their neighbors.

So, the rail suddenly opens up the ability to deliver commodities and
food stuffs and equipment into — all the way to eastern Congo and
Zambia. Both countries, Zambia and DRC, have fresh water, have arable
land, and yet are importers of food.

What you’ll see in this facility that the President is going to go to,
where the roundtable is going to be Carrinho, is the company that has
built silos for storage so that you can get food crops into cold storage
so they can last longer, which means that he is able to go to farmers
across Angola and say, “Anything that you can farm, I will purchase,”
and then be able to deliver. That has reduced the dependency of Angola
already on certain products from a 100 percent dependency on imports to
near zero and expanding.

So we’re working with — the U.S. government with Carrinho. How do you
expand that into the broader region, into Zambia, into DRC, so that
along the rail, now, if you’re in Zambia and you have the Zambezi River
that has an enormous amount of fresh water, and yet they are importing
food — if the agriculture there can be developed from small farms to
large farms, and be able to sell into this corridor, we’re not only
expanding it for critical minerals, but suddenly this corridor is now
solving food security concerns across the corridor.

So this is the overview of why the President has gone not only all the
way to Angola, but all the way to Lobito. And it’s a major investment
for the U.S. The PGI initiative that we’ve talked to you about before is
an initiative that is the leader in this.

Under this presidency, we’ve already spent, in this corridor alone,
nearly $4 billion, but that’s just U.S. There’s a lot of other
participants in this. The EU is coming in. The Italian government has
provided, I think, $320 million of investment. The Africa Finance
Corporation, as well as the Africa Development Bank, are all part of
this and growing.

So, this is going to be a multibillion-dollar investment in lasting
infrastructure that will not only not only build up these businesses,
but bring about a change in attitude that the President mentioned in his
public remarks today of increasing the transparency, increasing the
standards of labor, increasing the environmental protection standards,
all that have been — really, this continent has suffered enormously from
investments that have not cared about any of those things and has taken
the resources out and left behind no better economies, no advanced
communities.

And so, the idea behind this corridor is that it will ensure that it
doesn’t only come to take resources, but rather build up GDP, build up
communities, build up towns, and increase the level of economic
development for the towns and the communities around these businesses,
as well as the country as a whole, while not adding crushing debt terms
the way they have with other investors.

I will stop there.

MODERATOR: Great. With that, we’ll take a few questions, and we’re
hoping to keep it focused on the visit tomorrow.

Q So, as far as just the rail project in particular, the big kind of new
financial commitment is the AFC announcement, right?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: So, DFC, we haven’t formally announced
it; we’ve talked about the (inaudible). But DFC, the Development Finance
Corporation in the United States, has approved a $553 million package.
And I won’t speak to what the AFC will announce tomorrow. That’s up to
them.

Q Gotcha. And is that specifically for phase two?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: That’s for phase two.

So what we did was the United States came in with phase one at $553
million, and that was good enough for the two European companies that
are building the rail and operating it, in addition to us helping them
get secured usage commitments of the rail. That’s at phase one. Once the
world saw that we were serious about this, it sort of paved the way for
everyone to be like, “Oh, this thing is actually for real.” And then
they came in and supported, specifically after the President made a big
push at the G7 last year that unlocked a lot of financing from others.

Q Can I just look forward to AGOA? What is the future of this rail
corridor and AGOA? I know that’s up to Congress. But do you see that
some of these countries that are eligible for AGOA — Zambia, Congo, and
Angola — could expand their AGOA exports? And do you have a roadmap for
that?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: I think there’s no doubt that should
Congress expand AGOA, that this would be a benefit. I think the point
here is that it would support these countries’ ability to increase their
exports, and will allow them to be not only connected to global markets
for exports, but actually to other African markets. So, there is a
critical need for Africa to be connected not only to the world and to
itself. And so, the President spoke about it today. We talk a lot about
it in aviation, where sometimes you have to fly very far away to go to
your neighboring country, but having the critical infrastructure.

So, hopefully AGOA can strengthen it. But this is not reliant on AGOA.
AGOA will just be a increase in support for it.

Q Right. But AGOA is, like, value-added products, and this rail line is
going to bring in, like, raw materials. Is this is going to give an
opportunity for these countries to export value-added products?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: So I disagree with the premise that it’s
for raw products. There is — right now, only raw product is coming out.
But I think what this rail does — an increased — in order to get to
higher-value products, you need a few things. One of them is affordable
and reliable and abundant energy. So, the build-out of the energy system
allows you to then build the value added.

And I fully expect — we are already discussing with companies that are
looking — I can’t announce it for them, but I would assume in the next
weeks and months you’ll see some of the companies, the mining companies
and other service companies, building out infrastructure to create value
added. So instead of just the raw material, you’ll be ultimately
exporting something. Now, I can’t tell you how far up the chain it will
be refined, but I think there’s a lot of refinement to be done here in
Africa.

Q And on just the fi- — so the investment from the DFC, it’s $553
million?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: Yes.

Q That’s what’s coming tomorrow?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: That is part of the — when we talk about
the over $3 billion of support in Angola, and then I think nearly or
over $4 billion in total for the Lobito Corridor, the President is going
to announce tomorrow an additional $600 million in financing for
projects for the broader Lobito Corridor, and that takes you above the  
number that we had talked about today.

Q Got it. So, additional $600 million is what (inaudible).

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: Yeah. But that’s not  
just for rail. That’s for the broader — and not just in Angola; that’s
for the broader corridor.

Q So that’s separate from the 553 (inaudible).

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: Correct.

Q Yeah, I just want to make sure that they’re separate.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: The $553 million is for the rail itself,
a phase one rail in Angola. And then there are all kinds of things that
we’re doing to support the broader corridor. Some of that’s what I
talked about — Africell, Sun Africa, the feasibility study that we have
to do for the phase two. Phase two is essentially building the entire
rail system inside Zambia, which we are pretty far along on the planning
of that. We expect shovels on the ground by the end of 2025 or early
2026. And there’s a lot of work that goes into identifying routes. Do a
brand-new greenfield rail.

So the part from Angola all the way to east Congo is already being used.
And then phase two is much more expansive, more ambitious. I should say
there’s a phase three, which is then connecting it onwards all the way
to Tanzania. That’s why the vice president of Tanzania is going to be
here.

Q Okay, got it. And then, just wanted to — can you just talk about what
this financing looks like going forward, with President-elect Trump
coming in? And the dollars that have already been allocated to the
project, can you kind of detail how it’s being spent, how much has been
spent already? Like, I don’t know if you can kind of break that down.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: So, I think the most important way to
tie the two ends of your question is to say that the money that I’m
referring to, most of it has gone through the process already. It’s been
approved. The ones that require congressional notification have already
been congressionally notified. They have finished their notification
periods. They have not had any holds. There is broad bipartisan support
for these projects.

And, look, at the end of the day, if you want to talk about living in an
era of global competition, specifically with China, this Lobito Corridor
is the heart of that. You can’t stand up and say I want to compete with
China — not adversary, but compete with China — and not support what’s
happening here, which is why I have every confi- — which is why it’s had
bipartisan support already across Congress, and why I have every
expectation that when the new administration comes in, they will — I
don’t know how many things they will continue around the world, but I
believe they will continue this project because it is good for American
national security, it’s good for American economic security, and it
builds on what a Republican-controlled Congress during the Trump
administration, which is to build that, that created the DFC for this
kind of purpose.

And we’ve had Republican staff, Republican members of Congress, senators
who’ve been to Angola, DRC recently. These are members who’ve never
traveled to Angola before, but this is why they’re coming here. So, I
think there is quite a bit of support for this.

Q Sorry, just a clarifying question. The $553 million, that’s for phase
one, not two?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: Correct.

Q How long will this take? You said that the Tanzania point — I mean,
shovels in the ground for part of it, starting in 2025.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: Zambia. Zambia.

Q Right. And then, the Tanzania is like the long goal. And right now,
there’s a portion that’s already being used to east Congo.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: Right. This is all going to be in
pieces. So, nothing is going to — this is not a “we wait until a big
reveal and something all works.”

So we had a test cargo a couple months ago that went from east DRC all
the way to Lobito. It doesn’t mean the rail is fully operational yet,
but we wanted to see how it works. So that’s how I can tell you how many
hours it takes, because we had that test cargo. That will, probably in
the next year or so, will be — the work inside Angola will be complete,
next year-ish. Right around that time is when the shovel is going to go
in the ground in Zambia. Again, the feasibility study is now done, and
now we have to do all the other project preparation, which, again, is
expensive and takes time.

There’s already pieces of rail that exist if you go further east. So now
it’s about, Patrick, how do you make sure that all the rails connect to
each other. So you don’t have to build the whole way to Tanzania; you
just have to build the spurs that interlink the rail that already exists
all the way to the port in Tanzania. So, that will give you that — what
the President said in his comments at the Slavery Museum — of connecting
for the very first time a truly transcontinental (inaudible).

Q What’s the prediction for that, for it being (inaudible)?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: I don’t know. I think it’s hard for me
to make that prediction. I think if all goes well, which construction
projects sometimes do and sometimes don’t, I would say Zambia would then
take probably two, three years to complete, and then — but some of the
rest of the work could happen simultaneous, concurrently with the Zambia
work. The Chinese are involved in a TAZARA section, which is they’re
partnered with Zambia and Tanzania on part of that. And so that will
connect into this. So we’ll have a lot of different pieces to this rail.

So my guess is, by the end of the decade, you can have a really fully
functioning rail that goes coast to coast.

Q And do you hear frequently from these countries that you’ve been
working with on the Lobito Corridor that they don’t have secure
investments from their other investment partners? That’s been a big
theme of what we’ve been hearing about. Without explicitly saying the
names of the other partners, (inaudible) more reliable?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: I’m sorry, who are the other partners?

Q China and Russia. That the U.S. would be a more reliable investor.
That’s what the U.S. is offering. Do you hear from these leaders that
some of these other investments are falling short; that they need
somebody to come in and be reliable?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: I think that the investment from the
United States versus from others, it’s not about more or less, it’s
about different. We hear a lot about others coming in with very large
checks, build a lot of stuff, but that is with high interest rates on
the debt, the terms are really difficult, and it doesn’t come with any
of the commitments to their society.

And so, what you see happen — and again, the President mentioned in the
speech today — 10 years, 5 years later, 10 years later, you go to a
country, whether it’s here in Sub-Saharan Africa or in Southeast Asia or
South Asia, or even Latin America — I mean, look what’s happened. The
resource is gone, right? They’ve taken it out. But there’s — the debt in
the early years is low interest rates, and then it expands with time. In
some cases, it’s over 11 percent, which is crushing. And there’s no
support for the local communities where these investments are.

Now, politicians today are wise enough to know that “my predecessor left
me this debt and a community that is anti-investment,” because they’ve
seen that their kids are working in these facilities, or they’re getting
paid a dollar a day. They know their drinking water is worse because
nobody is providing security into making sure that they’re not polluting
all the waterways or moving rivers.

So what they’re looking for is a different kind of investment that
guarantees the opposite of all those things. And what I hear from heads
of state, you know, consistently, is, “I don’t want the other
investments, but if I have to choose between a Chinese investment and no
investment, I will choose a Chinese investment every day of the week, or
the Russian.”

So if you give us a choice, we’ll be there. And what the President
committed at the African Leaders Summit was to create a different offer,
and that’s what he charged me with trying to implement, and that’s what
he’s done. And that’s why President Lourenço said today in his opening
comments to the President, “You lived up to your word. You gave us your
word at the leaders conference, and you’ve actually lived up to it with
what you’ve done.”

Q Can I follow up on something you just said, that the hope is that this
will attract, like, higher-quality investments. But how — is there a
mechanism in place to verify that the companies that will take part in
this project, like actually have higher standards regarding, like, labor
rights, environment, transparency, et cetera?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: Yes, there is. I mean, the whole point
of the U.S. participating in this is that part of the DFC or Ex-Im Bank
or MCC or USAID, any of these organizations in the U.S. government, they
vet the companies for that kind of action, and not just before they give
the loan facilities or debt facilities, but rather during the project
itself.

Second, with the fact that the U.S. government is saying we are
effectively putting the American flag on these projects, we have a
responsibility. And so, there’s a continued U.S. — you know, shining a
light on these projects to make sure that it is done in the proper
manner.

MODERATOR: We have time for just a couple more.

Q You know, I know this was supposed to come earlier, and the hurricane
sort of derailed everything, but is there a fear that this is coming so
late in the administration that even though this is, you know, good work
that’s going to certainly have a lasting impact, that it’s going to be
overshadowed by the President leaving office?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: I don’t think so at all. Look, the
President was supposed to be here earlier, but I don’t think it makes
any difference.

What’s being highlighted here, guys, is the — you know, we’re so used to
the cynical of “government comes and we tout.” This is, like, literally,
a transformative initiative for the United States that I think it’s not
about whether the Trump administration is going to continue it, which I
have very little doubt, but rather, I think this is the playbook for
administrations to come.

There are a lot of things that we’ve done around the world. I mean,
PEPFAR is, I think, George W. Bush, and we’re still talking about what a
great initiative that was. Everybody thinks the DFC was a very good
thing globally.

So, yes, from administration to administration, some things get carried
on. So, I truly believe that this is something transformative.

But look at the politics of this. And I don’t want people to miss this:
Nobody — when I came this morning to the palace, before the arrival
ceremony, the ministers that I was talking to, the one thing that every
single one of them separately said to me, “What we’ve been talking about
is that no one in this country, at our age, would have believed that the
United States would be here, the president of the United States would be
here,” based on the relationship that we once had. We weren’t just on
the other side of the Cold War. We were very much on the other side of
the Cold War. During a civil war here then, we were sort of a player.

Q It was like a hot war with Cuba, a proxy war.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: Yes. This was basically a proxy hot war
with the Soviet Union.

So to go from that — and, by the way, that — yes, we recognize, you
know, reestablished relations in 1993. But when I came here, you know,
and started talking to the Angolan government just three, four years
ago, the relationship was not this. Today, this is one of our strongest
relationships in all of Sub-Saharan Africa. It’s one of our best
friends. President Lourenço has been one of our truest allies. That is
unimaginable (inaudible). It didn’t happen because we decided to go the
usual route of aid. It happened — or political promises. It happened
because they could see that we were making promises and we were keeping
them at every step of the way.

The fact that we made over $3 billion of investments here that are
meaningful investments to people in this country is what drove it.

And so, the blueprint here is: If you get more — with aid, you get a
certain amount; you’ve done the right thing. You should continue to do
it. But the investment strategy that many presidents have talked about
trying to — how do you go from aid to trade, we’ve heard that from many
presidents. But the ability to actually do it is so different. And
that’s why I don’t take the cynical view of, “Oh, it’s the end of the
administration, didn’t have to come, it’s not going to matter.” On the
contrary. The one thing that I hear from Republicans consistently since
the election is, “Can you talk to us more about this? How do we continue
this?” People asking for what kind of jobs they need to create for this
and so on.

So it’s not just my hard-to-hide enthusiasm for this project, but it is
that I truly believe that this is a blueprint for the future.

And, by the way, we’ve copied this in other parts of the world. When was
the last time we took something we did in Africa and then copied it
elsewhere? We created a corridor in the Philippines that is entirely —
together with Japan — just with — you know, the Luzon Corridor — just
based on this.

And I think if we had more time — I think we’re trying to do the same
thing in East Africa, in Liberia and in Ghana, building out data
centers. I mean, that’s the competition with China. It’s not getting
China — by the way, it’s not about getting China out of Africa. On the
contrary. I would love China to invest more. But hopefully, when
countries say, “Wait a minute, I can go to the United States and
there’ll be no child labor, they’ll get higher wages, more investment in
my country, and I won’t have crushing debt,” and tell the Chinese, “If
you want to compete, give me a better offer.”

And so China, then, is investing in Africa at higher standards. Great.
We’re not going to close the infrastructure gap in Africa with the
United States and the G7 alone. I can promise you that. So having China
here would be great, but not the way they’ve been doing business
(inaudible).

Q Just one quick one. Has there been any progress in finding a buyer for
that Congolese mine that was being sold to a Chinese buyer?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: Chemaf?

Q Yes.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: So, one, they announced that — there was
some announcement that it was sold, and then there was an announcement,
“No, we didn’t sell it.” I think that the Congolese — you’d have to ask
them, but they would like to make sure that their industry and their
economy is diversified. They are having discussions with other
companies. So it’s really not my place to speak for them.

MODERATOR: Thank you all. Thank you very much.
