---
date: '2024-12-01'
modified_time: 2024-11-30 16:20:43-05:00
published_time: 2024-12-01 05:00:00-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/12/01/background-press-call-on-the-presidents-travel-to-angola/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Background Press Call on the President\u2019s Travel to\_Angola"
---
 
Via Teleconference

10:39 A.M. EST

MODERATOR:  All right, hello, everyone.  This is Jessica Kosmider with
the NSC press team.  Thank you so much for joining us today, the day
after Thanksgiving, for a background call to preview the President’s
trip to Angola.

For your awareness, not for your reporting, on the line today you will
have \[senior administration official\] and \[senior administration
official\].  You can refer to them as senior administration officials in
your reporting.

Before I turn it over to them, as a reminder, this call is embargoed
until 5:00 a.m. Eastern on Sunday, December 1st.  By joining, you agree
to these ground rules today.

With that, I’ll turn it over to \[senior administration officials\] for
some opening remarks, and then we’ll take as many questions as we can in
the time that we have. 

All right, over to you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Terrific.  Thanks so much, Jess.  And
can everyone hear me?

MODERATOR:  Yep, loud and clear. 

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Terrific.  Okay.

Hi, everyone.  Thanks for joining on the day after Thanksgiving.  And
really pleased to be with you today. 

So, as we all know, this upcoming week, from December 2 to 4, President
Biden is traveling to Angola, where he will highlight the transformation
and deepening of the U.S.-Angola relationship and will also reaffirm our
commitment to strengthening our partnerships across Africa. 

This is a historic trip.  We are excited about it.  It marks the first
visit of a U.S. president to Africa in nearly a decade, since 2015.  And
also importantly, this is the first-ever visit by a sitting U.S.
president to Angola. 

You may remember that when President Biden first assumed office, he
pledged to restore and deepen our relationships around the world, and
Angola is a prime example of that vision. 

So that’s why, to start the visit in Angola, President Biden will meet
bilaterally with his counterpart, President João Lourenço, in Luanda. 
That meeting builds upon strong bilateral engagement we’ve had
throughout the Biden-Harris administration with Angola.  President
Lourenço attended the U.S.-Africa Leaders Summit in 2022, and then the
two presidents met here in D.C. almost exactly a year ago, when
President Biden hosted President Lourenço in the Oval Office. 

Together, the U.S. and Angola are working closely to expand impactful,
high-standard economic opportunities and improve regional peace and
security.  We’re grateful for Angola’s partnership, and we’re really
looking forward to the meetings where we will further our shared vision
for greater prosperity for both Angolans and Americans. 

I’ll note that this trip also has a regional focus that’s far beyond
Angola’s borders.  I’ll let \[senior administration official\] speak
more to this, but just to note that earlier in this administration, you
may recall that we released a U.S.-Africa strategy.  That strategy talks
about how it’s impossible to meet this era’s defining challenges without
African contributions and African leadership.  For that reason, the U.S.
has championed African leadership across multilateral fora, including
for advocating for new seats to be added to the G20, to the U.N.
Security Council, and international financial institution boards. 

On the visit, President Biden will also deliver remarks in Luanda that
really lay out both our shared history and highlight the growth and
enduring strength of our relationships in Angola and across the
continent.  He’ll discuss how, together with our African partners, the
U.S. is working to narrow the infrastructure gap in Africa, expand
economic opportunities on the continent, expand technological and
scientific cooperation, and bolster peace and security. 

This visit will also highlight the work and resources that the U.S. has
invested in this vision.  You might recall that at the 2022 Africa
Leaders Summit, the U.S. pledged to invest $55 billion in Africa over
the subsequent three years.  Two years on from that, I’m proud to say
that we’ve already met 80 percent of that commitment, and we really view
these as investments, not donations. 

Together with African partners, the administration has expanded trade
and investment opportunities; advanced transcontinental infrastructure;
and supported African-led efforts on conservation, climate adaptation,
and energy that pay dividends for all of us. 

We’re not stopping there.  While in Angola, the President will focus on
one of its signature investment projects, the Lobito Trans Africa
Corridor.  I will let my colleague speak much more to that. 

Finally, I’ll just note that the President will be announcing some
important new deliverables along the way.  I do not want to get ahead of
our President on sharing too much at this stage, but I will say that
these will be new deliverables related to global health security, to
agribusiness, to security cooperation, and to preserving Angola’s
cultural heritage. 

A couple more notes on those.  One is on the Prosper Africa Initiative. 
The President will be highlighting how since January 2021, U.S.
departments and agencies in the Prosper Africa Initiative have closed 12
deals in Angola with a combined value of $6.9 billion.  He’ll share how
the U.S. government is making important investments to increase access
to nutritious food, strengthen agribusiness, and increase food storage
capacity in the country. 

He’ll discuss how the U.S. and Angola will announce a new global health
security partnership to strengthen capacity to prevent, detect, and
respond to infectious disease.  And the U.S. will also support Angola’s
nomination of the Kwanza Corridor to the list of UNESCO World Heritage
Sites. 

So, much more to come on this, and you can expect the announcements and
the overall trip to reflect the deepening of our relationship and to
reflect President Biden’s vision for more equitable partnerships in
addressing global challenges together.

So, I look forward to your questions, and I’ll turn it over to \[senior
administration official\] to provide more from his standpoint.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thank you.  And thanks, everybody, on a
Thanksgiving Friday.  Look, I don’t have much to add, and I’m happy to
answer questions, but as \[senior administration official\] said, one of
the examples of the change in our strategy in Africa was to move it a
lot more towards investment, rather — and partnership, rather than
traditional development assistance, grants, and charity. 

And that’s why this visit, and that’s why choosing Angola, if you think
about what’s happened over the last couple of years, is looking at the
corridor approach globally, but specifically where we anchored it in
Africa, and building the — refurbishing and rebuilding a rail connection
from the Port of Lobito all the way through the Democratic Republic of
Congo with a phase two approach into Zambia and eventually all the way —
we’re preparing the ground for eventually reaching all the way to
Tanzania, connecting the Atlantic and Indian Oceans. 

This is not — this serves a number of purposes. 

One, it’s about critical minerals that are required for the energy
transition globally for electric vehicles.  It is important for AI data
centers and high-end chips.  But it is also about connecting all the —
what this kind of infrastructure does is it may be able to bring
critical minerals and shipments out in 45 hours instead of 45 days.  But
it also allows for the growth of true food security in Africa.  And we
are already seeing that food can be now delivered from the Port of
Lobito all the way to eastern Congo in a matter of days instead of weeks
and months.  It is enabling farmers to grow more local produce that can
be used and traded so that landlocked countries are no longer landlocked
and connected to each other. 

Over the last couple of years in Angola, through U.S. government
investment, there has been added more telecommunications.  More people
are getting connected to 3G and now building out 5G networks, as well as
building out renewable energy.  In fact, the U.S. has approved financing
through Ex-Im Bank of nearly two and a half billion dollars of renewable
energy projects that will be able to take countries from energy deficit
to energy exporters to their neighbors. 

And that’s really — the entire point of the Biden administration’s
strategy that \[senior administration official\] just articulated is
focusing on the investment side.  This has not only transformed the
economies by building out GDP, but it does so by focusing on attracting
investment, by high standards — companies committed to high standards of
labor, of gender equality, of health, and of environmental stewardship. 

And that is really — that is the choice that is now available to
countries throughout the region.  Not looking at, “Do I have to accept
Chinese investment with low standards and child labor and corruption,”
but “Do I have another offering to compare it to.”  And again, this is
what President Biden has wanted to transform our relationship in the
region, is to offer a different — more investment, but with higher
standards.

And so, this Angola trip is really going to be highlighting that option
that exists now in Africa, a direct line from the Africa Leaders Summit
that President Biden had earlier in the administration to where we are
today, and what I believe will be a policy that is continued by future
administrations in years to come, focusing on this investment and
partnership between the United States and Africa across the continent.

We chose to focus on a handful of countries over the last couple of
years in order to be able to spend the scarce resources that we have in
the U.S. government in a deeper and more meaningful way, rather than
spreading it thin across a wider swath. 

That has also brought remarkable increase in American company investors
into — and Western investors — into Africa.  And we’ve done this both
bilaterally but also through the PGI, the President’s signature
initiative with the G7 of the Partnership for Global Infrastructure and
Investment, driving this kind of investment across the continent under
those same guidelines and rules of increased investment with increased
opportunity at higher standards. 

So I’ll leave it there, Jess.  And if there any questions, I’m happy to
answer.

MODERATOR:  Thank you so much.  First up, we will go to Aurelia from
AFP.  Aurelia, you should be able to unmute yourself.

Q    Hi.  Thanks for taking my question and thanks for doing this call. 
Just maybe following up on what you said about offering an alternative
to Chinese investment: Just in September, Xi offered Africa a sweeping
$50 billion in fresh funding, promised like a million jobs, et cetera. 
Isn’t it a risk that by this visit that comes late in the presidency, it
gives the impression that, you know, it’s too little or too late?  Or do
you really think that focusing on just a handful of countries and very
precise investment, like, really offers a credible alternative to the
billions that the Chinese have offered?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Aurelia, it is no doubt that China is
offering billions and have been offering billions.  And let me be clear
off the top: I don’t think it’s a — we don’t think it’s a bad thing to
have Chinese investment in Africa.  But if it means that at the end of a
few years of investment, the communities that live in the area of the
investment have not seen any increase in GDP, that they’ve not seen
benefits of their lives in it, that it has not lifted the lives of the
communities; if it means that the government is going to be living under
crushing debt for generations to come, then that’s not — the government
is going to have to make the decision whether that’s the alternative
they want. 

What we have heard repeatedly over years is that people want to have
more — people in Africa want to have more alternatives for investment,
not less.  But if they don’t have the alternative, they are forced to go
with the one investment they have. 

So I think if the United States coming in here with investments that are
meaningful — and this is not too little too late — I think that after
years of being off the field, President Biden has put us back on the
field and competing and offering this alternative. 

If, as a result, other countries, whether China or anyone else, also
comes to Africa and increases the standards of labor, standards of
healthcare provided to the workers, standards of defending the
environment — protecting the environment where the projects are, and
transparency versus corruption, if that forces everyone now to increase
the standards, that will be a huge achievement. 

So I think that we’re not coming — this visit is at the end of the
administration, but for the last two years, some of the numbers of U.S.
investment in Africa are staggering in comparison to previous years, and
specifically here in Angola where I think we’ve spent over $3 billion
just in the last couple of years in areas as diverse as
telecommunications, renewable energy, critical minerals, rail, bridges —
so, from infrastructure to technology.  That’s something that we’d like
to see grow, and I think that the President sees it as laying the
foundation for a new approach to Africa that will be followed by
administrations to come.

MODERATOR:  All right, thank you.  Next up, we’ll go to Fatima Hussein
from the Associated Press.  Fatima, you should be able to unmute
yourself.

Q    Thank you for taking my question.  My question is: Can the
President still have an effect on the continent when he’s coming right
now when all the eyes of African leaders are on President-elect Trump? 
And is there a fear that President Trump, whose policies are so
different from President Biden, could undo a lot of the things that
you’re talking about today?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  I’m happy to take that.

Thanks, Fatima, for the question.  I’d say, obviously we can’t speculate
about the choices the next administration will make, but from my
standpoint, I am grateful that U.S.-Africa policy has actually
benefitted from really strong bipartisan support over the course of
multiple administrations.  And I think that’s a pretty remarkable
tradition.

If you think back to some of the really impactful initiatives that U.S.
administrations have put forward, impactful initiatives like the DFC,
the Development Finance Corporation, that was a Trump administration
institution that the Biden administration has taken forward.  Think back
to the Millennium Challenge Corporation that was launched in the Bush
administration.  PEPFAR.  And more recently, Prosper Africa was also
launched in the Trump administration.

So while I, of course, I can’t speak for the next administration, I
think there’s a lot of reason to assume that some of these initiatives
will continue on. 

And as \[senior administration official\] has laid out, when we think
about an endeavor like the Lobito Corridor, that is a win-win for
Americans and for Africans.  And so, I would imagine that would be seen
in that light of something that’s paying dividends for all of us. 

So, while of course we can’t speculate on the next administration, I
think there’s a lot of reason to assume the bipartisan tradition will
continue when it comes to Africa policy in a lot of ways.

MODERATOR:  All right, thank you.  Next up, we will go to Zolan from the
New York Times.  Zolan, you should be able to unmute yourself.

Q    Hey.  Thank you so much.  I know the focus is going to be on
Angola, but you said there’s sort of a continent-wide approach you’re
taking too.  Do you expect — will the President in any way be speaking
about the violence in the eastern DRC?  Will he be engaging with Rwanda
at all during this trip?  And will there be any focus, as well, on the
conflict in Sudan, as well, during this trip?

And then, also, kind of just a clarification, but can we officially say
that this is the last trip overseas for President Biden at this point of
his presidency?  Thanks.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Great.  I can start, and then I invite
\[senior administration officials\] to weigh in.

So, on the eastern DRC, something President Biden has talked about is
his gratitude for Angola’s leadership on this front.  Angola is playing
a very important regional mediation role on the conflict in the eastern
DRC.  And so, while I won’t get into specifics of their conversation, I
do think thanking Angola for its really important leadership on this
front will be part of the visit.  There may be other regionally focused
aspects of the visit that I don’t think we can share more on at this
point, but just to say that I think President Biden really does view
Angola in the context of its region.

\[Senior administration official\], I invite you to add anything.  And
then, Jess, on the last international trip, or not, I defer to you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Look, Zolan, I think that this will be
— we’re stopping in — the President is going to Angola, but this is a
regional approach.  Angola has been a tremendous friend, both to the
United States over the last few years, which is a dramatic sort of shift
in geopolitical alliances as a result of the policy we described before,
but also has played a key role — leadership role in the eastern DRC, as
has the United States.  So we’ll address those as the days go by, as we
continue.

But there’s — again, I think the fact that this trip is coming at the
end of the administration, I want to underscore what \[senior
administration official\] said.  This is a policy that we have every
expectation that future administrations will continue to follow,
especially some of the investment-oriented approach.  And I can tell you
that Republican members of Congress have been traveling more frequently
to DRC, to Zambia, to Angola, and to the region over the last few
months, including senior Republican senators, out of support for this
approach.  I think that that will continue.

MODERATOR:  And then, as far as your question goes on future travel, we
don’t have any other travel to announce today, but of course, we’ll keep
you guys posted if anything changes.

Next up we have Aaron Gilchrist from NBC.  You should be able to unmute
yourself, Aaron.

Q    Hey, guys.  Thanks for doing this call.  Just two things quickly,
if I can.  There’s been criticism of the political protests that have
been happening, the arrests of political protesters in Angola.  Do you
expect the President will address in any way arrests of protesters or
human rights issues in Angola while he’s there? 

And then the second question: Domestically, there’s been sort of
head-scratching about why this trip to the African continent by this
president, who was supported so vociferously by African Americans here,
why this trip is coming so late in his administration.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  I’ll take the first part, Aaron. 
Thanks for the question. 

Yeah, I think, as you know, President Biden has never shied away from
talking about challenges to democracy, his commitment to democracy, and
I think you can expect him to always raise those issues with
counterparts, without getting into specifics. 

We, of course, are tracking protests in Luanda, and would note that we
were heartened that the protests over the last week remained peaceful
and had — we think that’s tremendously important. 

I’ll also say that we and the President and his delegation traveling
will meet with civil society while in Angola.  So I think having that
discussion is always a key part of it.

In terms of when this falls on the administration, I would say the
President made a promise he would visit Africa, and he’s visiting
Africa.  He’s excited about it.  He raises how excited about it he is
every time I speak with him.  So I’m thrilled he’s going. 

\[Senior administration official\], would you add anything on that?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  No, I would say — look, this has been a
— this is a trip that he’s wanted to take for a long time.  He’s held
the Africa Leaders Summit early in the administration, and has done —
this administration has done a tremendous amount of work in Africa
during a period of a lot of foreign policy activity.  And so, again, as
you know, he was supposed to go a little bit earlier; it got postponed
for a variety of reasons. 

But the important thing is that he is going.  And the even more
important thing is what he has led and what he has done on the African
continent in the policy, which is a total transformation of our policy
in a manner that was not expected. 

I can tell you that traveling throughout Africa over the last several
years of this administration, all I get from leaders in Africa is being
grateful for a final change of policy that is focused so much on
investment and partnership than focusing on what the timeline of the
visit was.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  I’d also just add, Aaron, to your
question: Obviously, there’s a lot of focus on the President’s travel,
and we’re really excited about it.  But over the course of this
administration, just the past two years since the Africa Leaders Summit,
the administration has had over 20 cabinet-level and senior officials
travel to the continent.  And as you know, each of these visits brings
with them deliverables.  They bring with them new partnerships that are
launched.  So I think this administration is about the totality of those
visits and those initiatives, and we’re proud of our record on that
front.

MODERATOR:  All right, we have time for just a couple more.  So, next
up, we’ll go to Skylar Woodhouse from Bloomberg.  Skylar, you should be
able to unmute yourself.

Q    Hey, thanks for doing this.  Hope everyone had a nice
Thanksgiving.  I just wanted to ask: Given that the trip is, you know,
very — it’s practically towards the end of President Biden’s presidency,
is it the understanding that African nations are taking the U.S.
seriously, especially as China is heavily influenced across the
continent right now?  Is that the understanding that you all feel that,
you know, the U.S. is being taken seriously?  Or because this trip is
towards the end, that, you know, it’s just kind of a check mark that
Biden has to do at this point?  Thanks.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Skylar, look, I get more questions
about this from American reporters than I get from African leaders or
African-based businesses.  So — honestly.

The President of the United States has led a new policy in Africa.  Yes,
China is influential in Africa, as they are in other places, and
continuing to do so. 

It also is true that leader after leader on the continent have asked us
to make sure that we have alternatives for those investments.  And on
this trip as well, it is true that it’s coming at the end of the
administration, but it’s capping on — one perspective, it’s capping
three years, four years of a tremendous amount of investment by the
United States in areas that represent the growth for Africa, whether
it’s in the role that they can play in the transition to renewable
energy and electric vehicles, as well as to chips.  They are at the
center of what could be the future.  And this trip is also coming as the
era of global competition continues, and Africa can play that big role. 

The one thing leaders in Africa do not want is for folks to say they’re
under — they have the Chinese investment; they have Chinese influence,
and therefore, nobody else in the world should go to Africa.  That is
the opposite of what everybody in Africa wants. 

So, all I hear from the leaders I speak to — and I speak to leaders
across Africa regularly, both political leaders, heads of state, as well
as business leaders — is excited for the fact that President Biden is
coming, that he’s bringing a delegation that has brought to the table
(inaudible) from the Africa Finance Corporation, the Africa Development
Bank, record investments from the DFC, the Development Finance
Corporation in the United States, Ex-Im Bank, TDA, MCC, USAID.  The kind
of investments that we’re doing here are transformative.  And what they
want is to bring in the rest of the world.  I don’t know a single leader
in Africa who says, “I just got a promise for some money from China, and
therefore I don’t want anybody else there.”  On the contrary. 

So it is — the timing is what it is, but it is at a turning point that,
again, I don’t think this ends here.  I brief Congress regularly, and
there are Republican senators who were just in Angola recently because
of this, and intend to take this forward. 

So I see certain parts of our domestic policy is more binary and
political.  American investment in developing and middle-income
countries is not a partisan issue.  The way we’re doing it is
different.  But then again, we built on the Trump administration, the
Obama administration built on Bush administration, which built on the
Clinton administration.  That has been a seamless, increasing our
participation. 

The one thing we haven’t done is figured out how to invest more
conservatively in Africa.  This administration has done that.  I have
every expectation that both Congress and this administration and the one
after that will continue this policy.  And I think that leaders in
Africa understand that, and that’s why they are eager for this visit to
take place.

MODERATOR:  All right.  Thank you.  I think we have time for maybe one
or two more, so we’ll go with Rishi from Foreign Policy.  Rishi, you
should be able to unmute yourself. 

Q    Yeah, thanks for doing this, and thanks for taking my question. 
So, you spoke about — you mentioned that this is investment and not aid
in Africa, and we’ve seen that President-elect Trump, his big thing is
kind of making deals, examining the, quote, unquote, “deals” that the
U.S. has made.  So how protected are these investments that you’ve made
from what the Trump administration might do, from being unwound by a
potential Trump administration? 

And just as an addendum to that, how would changes to policies on the
domestic front, like the CHIPS Act and the IRA, impact Africa?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Look, let me start.  I see very little
reason why any of it would be under threat.  These are — one of the
things that we focus on when I say investment versus aid — and I want to
say it’s not “versus,” it’s “in addition to.”  We still have a robust
assistance program that is necessary.  So it’s an additive in here.

But these projects are all done — the point of them was to be
financeable and bankable projects that turn a profit, and therefore, I
don’t see any reason why any of these would be undone.  And from my
conversations, both with officials that are expected to be entering the
Trump administration, as well as with bipartisan leaders in Congress, is
that these projects are seen as the exact right thing to do.  So I don’t
see them being unwound.  In fact, I would see some of them growing.

Building the rail in Africa in order to connect its countries to each
other and to global markets; to be able to bring critical minerals out;
making sure that the United States, for the first time in years, is
getting cobalt and copper and lithium coming from this region to the
United States and not going 100 percent to China — these are things that
the next administration is likely to keep.  So I don’t really see the
issue. 

I think what happens in the IRA and the CHIPS Act, we’ll have to see. 
I’ve learned over the years of working in Washington that what is said
in campaigns is not always what is done in practice.  So let’s see what
happens. 

But those programs were investments in America and to make America
competitive, and so I find it hard to believe that any — perhaps some of
the regulations will change, but I don’t see the core of it changing. 
Building more chips in America is a good thing.  Driving a
trillion-dollar investment into the United States on both
infrastructure, specifically under CHIPS Act and the infrastructure
bill, both are going to be a good thing.  And building batteries and
components in the United States, I think that, if anything, those will
expand, not contract.

MODERATOR:  All right, thank you.  Last question, we’ll go to Kemi
Osukoya.  Kemi, you should be able to unmute yourself.

Q    Hello?

MODERATOR:  Yep, we can hear you, Kemi.

Q    Oh, okay.  Thank you very much.  Thank you for taking my question. 
I wanted to ask, regarding — I know during the G7 — the Lobito Corridor
is in partnership with the G7 alliance, and there was an announcement
that was made, I believe by BlackRock and Microsoft, in June, while
President Biden was in Italy.  So could you — this trip also, a major
part of it, will focus on business.  So can you talk about some of the
American companies that perhaps might accomplish the — accompany the
presidents on this trip? 

And the other side of my question is: About two years or a year ago, the
President launched the Presidential Advisory Council.  And as you
mentioned on this call, there have been several trips to the African
continent.  So, if you can talk about the engagements and what you’re
hearing from the Advisory Council that engaging the diaspora, not just
the African diaspora, but as well as the African American diaspora
engagement with Africa, what is the feedback that you are getting that
the presidents will use during this trip?  Thank you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  \[Senior administration official\], do
you want to take the G7 companies question?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Sure.  I think we have had companies
such as Sun Africa that’s invested in different parts of Africa and in
Angola in particular, and expanding its operations. 

Africell is a telecommunications company that’s received investment and
financing with the U.S. government, as well as its private sector
banking that have been working in about five or so countries in Africa
and are expanding in this region, even further beyond Angola, into DRC. 

After years of American companies leaving the continent, in the mining
business we now have exciting young, new companies from the United
States, such as KoBold that made a huge copper discovery in Zambia that
will be there as well. 

So there’s a lot of exciting companies.  Acrow Bridge, from
Pennsylvania, that is fabricating bridges in Angola and elsewhere. 

So what we’re seeing is this exciting surge.  But as you said, this
corridor is part of the G7.  We have companies from Europe — from
Portugal, from Switzerland, from France — and others that are joining
this, and all of it being done in collaboration with African governments
and African financial institutions, as well as some Americans.  

We had announced earlier this year, during the Kenya state visit to the
United States, the fact that there’s going to be a data center built in
Kenya. 

We had already announced during the G20 the data center that the U.S.
government is helping finance in Ghana.  And I’m hoping that there’ll be
another data center announced shortly. 

We also announced the connection from Google, a data line, fiber-optic
cable that was going to reach Kenya.  But not just that it’s reaching
Kenya from Asia, but that will be connected from Kenya all the way to
South Africa through many of the countries of this corridor.  And that
is being used with local African companies that are building out the
fiber-optic network. 

So what we’re trying to suggest here is that this is about technology,
about food security, about infrastructure build-out, and companies from
both — from Europe, from Asia, from — representing the whole G7-plus
countries are represented in these investments.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  And I can just jump in quickly on the
question about the PAC-ADE.  So that’s the President’s Advisory Council
on African Diaspora Engagement.  This is one of the initiatives that
we’re very proud of in the Biden-Harris administration.  This was
announced by VP Harris at the Africa Leaders Summit back in 2022, and
then President Biden signed an executive order directing the Secretary
of State to establish it. 

As you may know, the council’s members are a really remarkable array of
individuals who distinguish themselves in sports industries, in creative
industries, in governments, in business, in academia, in faith-based
activities.  So President Biden has continued to rely on their advice
and their counsel as he’s moved forward our Africa policy.

They did have their first official trip to the African continent as the
PAC-ADE.  This July, they traveled to Nigeria, and that was a
tremendously constructive engagement. 

So while I can’t get into specifics, I think you can expect that the
PAC-ADE will be involved in this upcoming trip, and we continue to be
really grateful for their service and their insights.

MODERATOR:  All right, thank you, everybody.  That is all the time that
we have today.  If we weren’t able to get to your question, you can feel
free to send it to us over email, and we’ll do our best to get back to
you all as quickly as possible over this holiday weekend.

And just as a reminder, this conversation is embargoed until 5:00 am
Eastern on Sunday.  Let us know if there’s anything else we can do for
you.  Thanks.

11:16 A.M. EST   
