---
date: '2024-12-11'
modified_time: 2024-12-11 16:18:56-05:00
published_time: 2024-12-11 16:30:00-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/12/11/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-and-chair-of-the-council-of-economic-advisers-jared-bernstein-2/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre and Chair of the Council\
  \ of Economic Advisers Jared\_Bernstein"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

2:31 P.M. EST  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  Good afternoon, everybody.     
  
Q    Good afternoon.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Foggy day.  Foggy day.   
  
So, this afternoon, President Biden delivered a major address on his
economic legacy.  After decades of trickle-down econ- — economics,
President Biden has written a new playbook that’s growing the economy
from the middle out and the bottom up.  His administration has delivered
the strongest recovery in the world and laid a strong foundation for
years to come by investing in America, empowering workers and u- —
unions, lowering costs, and supporting small businesses.   
  
Over the last four years, we have made remarkable progress, and the
results speak for themselves: over 60 million jobs created, the lowest
average unemployment rate of any administration in 50 years, inflation
down faster than almost any other advanced economy, and incomes up
almost $4,000.  The list goes on.   
  
As you heard the president say, we face an inflection point.  Do we
continue to grow the economy from the middle out and bottom up, or do we
backslide to trickle-down economics?   
  
With that, I will turn it over to Jared Bernstein, chair of the Council
of Economic Advisers, to further discuss the economic progress that we
have made. 

Jared.  
  
CHAIR BERNSTEIN:  Thank you.  Great to be here with you again.  I want
to thank my team, as always, for helping me to prepare to speak to you
today.   
  
The president, as you just heard, gave a legacby — legacy speech today
wherein he spoke about the strong economy that his administration is
leaving to the incoming team and how we got here, given what we faced
when we took office.   
  
He then lays out a set — a set of — he laid out a set of benchmarks,
which I will go through with you in a minute, against which the incoming
administration’s economic stewardship should be judged.   
  
The speech makes clear that while the pandemic was the acute source of
economic stress four years ago, the damage done by decades of Republican
fealty to trickle-down economic policy was a long-term underlying source
of economic pain for millions of America — Americans.   
  
The speech goes through the policy implications of that agenda —
offshoring jobs with no concern for workers and their communities,
anti-unionism, and disinvesting in American infrastructure workers’
industries — and contrasts that with the Biden-Harris agenda of
middle-out, bottom-up growth, which implies a very different agenda:
investing in workers in key industries of future growth and
prod­­­­uctivity, union power, full employment, labor markets, fair
taxation, and taking on corporations and lobbies like Big Pharma on
behalf of the American middle class.   
  
The timing is not accidental.  As Karine said, a quote from the speech,
“With the outcome of this election, we face an inflection point.  Do we
continue to grow from middle out and bottom up by investing in all of
America and in all of Americans, supporting unions and working families,
or do we backslide to an economic theory that benefited those at the top
while working people in the middle class struggled for a fair share of
the growth?”    
  
The president, as his speech — at the end of his speech, the president
ticked through a set of benchmarks, indicators by which the — the
conditions of the current economy that the incoming team has inherited
can be assessed and judged.   
  
Sixteen million jobs with the manufacturing and a construction boom.  In
four years, we’ll know if the — that job growth and booms will continue
or not.   
  
Historic lows in unemployment.  Record new businesses.  Significantly
closing the racial wealth gap.  More people covered by health insurance
than at any time in history.  Our tax code is fairer.  We’ve gone after
concentrated corporate power, and in four years we’ll know if this power
goes back to big corporations or not.   
  
Let me end my introductory comments today with a little bit of a
reflection on the economics, speaking as the chair of the CEA, of the
economic theory behind what the president talked about in his speech
today.  I should say the economic theory and the economic outcome.  This
is far from just a theoretical or an academic exercise.   
  
The president talked about achieving a soft landing, and this is the
idea of considerably lower inflation without giving up much on the
economy’s demand side — that is, lower inflation without higher
employment.  As you know, many economists told us we couldn’t get
there.  We’d have to have a recession to have as much disinflation as
we’ve seen.   
  
In fact, that did not occur, and one of the reasons it didn’t is because
the job market.  You know, I heard the president mention full employment
a couple times in his speech today.  The job market has stayed uniquely
strong for uniquely long, and that’s given workers bargaining clout
along with his union agenda.   
  
And so, as prices have come down — as inflation, I should say — as
inflation has come down and wages have gone up, we’ve had real wage
gains now for about a year and a half on a — on a yearly basis.  Last
seen: 1.5 percent real year-over-year.  That’s — that’s real — tha- —
that’s a considerable pace of real wage gains.   
  
This helps support strong consumer spending, and that’s been a core
factor keeping this economy moving forward a- — above trend growth rates
and leading to a situation that you heard the president talk about
today, where the U.S. economy really is the envy of the world.  And I
say that as someone who recently came back from Europe, where I was
frequently accosted by people who wanted to just talk about how we’ve
achieved the innovation, the productivity, the persistent full
employment that — that we have.   
  
That’s the consumer side of the story — the consumer spending side of
the story.  It’s 70 percent of our nominal GDP, so it’s extremely
important to keep the economy moving forward.   
  
But I often think of consumption as today’s story and investment as
tomorrow’s story.  I think what the president talked about today that
was so important and so compelling — especially given the fact that many
of these benefits are going to unfold 2, 4, 5, 10 years from now, if the
incoming folks nurture the seeds we’ve planted versus take them out —
this investment agenda i- — has the potential and is already
transforming economic growth, production, innovation, building up new
domestic sectors in this economy in the area of clean energy, battery
production, chips.  And — and that kind of investment agenda, that
speaks to future growth rates.  That speaks to future opportunities. 
That speaks to future productivity growth.   
  
Now, we’ve already — as the president said in his speech today, there’s
been a trillion dollars of private investment that has flooded into
those sectors — into clean energy, into semiconductors, into providing
infrastructure for this country.  All of that, again, is a complement to
the consumer spending side of the agenda, the soft-landing agenda that
sets us up for a future based on the kinds of investments the president
talked about today.  
  
With that, I’ll turn to your questions.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Josh.  
  
Q    Good to see you, Jared.  Thanks for doing this and subjecting
yourself to all of us.  (Laughter.)   
  
One of the benchmarks that President Biden didn’t mention in his speech
was the U.S. budget deficit, which is closing out the fiscal year last
year, like, above 6 percent of GDP.  How sustainable is that as an
inheritance of the incoming administration?  
  
CHAIR BERNSTEIN:  The president spoke about this a bit in the speech in
the context of doubling on the TCJA tax cuts, of course, most of which
expire at the end of next year.  And he talked about over fi- — I think
he mentioned 5 trillion in deficit-financed tax cuts if Republicans fail
to offset that.   
  
I think that stands in stark contrast to the budgets that — that we’ve
passed that have three — the most recent one with $3 trillion of deficit
reduction.   
  
So, the first point is that if you look at the fiscal outlook that we’ve
tried to craft in our budgets — now, obviously, we were — were not able
to get those through Congress, but we certainly — that’s what we’ve been
fighting for — they’re characterized by significant deficit reduction
and a great deal more fairness in the tax code, which is something he
talked about today.   
  
So, I think he correctly took a stance that the extens- — the full
extension of the — of the Trump tax cuts would be both significantly
damaging our fiscal outlook and, even worse, creating more unfairness in
the tax code and increasing after-tax inequality.  
  
In terms of whether 6 percent deficits are sustainable, I think that
when we — what — what you really want to see, it’s very h- — I think
it’s hard and probably not that advisable to say, “This number is okay
and that number isn’t.  Once you get to this level of debt to GDP,
you’re in trouble.  Once you go over it” — you know, the — the markets
don’t really work that way.   
  
Given the extent of the debt that we face so far, we still have very
successful auctions to — you know, to — to explain, you know, what I’m
talking about.   
  
But I do think that what you want to see is, when you get to a
full-employment economy with above-trend growth, you’d like to see that
number coming down.  So, I think it’s much more of a delta story.  You’d
like to see that number coming down, and one of the reasons you don’t is
because decades of trickle-down economics and Republican tax cuts have
broken, have severed the linkage between strong economic growth and
revenue flows to the Treasury.  We tried to correct that in our budgets,
but the politics have blocked us from getting it there.   
  
Q    But basically, you believe the current situation is not sustainable
based off your budget proposals?   
  
CHAIR BERNSTEIN:  I think that when you get to an economy — I think that
when you’re an economy like ours — no, I wouldn’t say it that way.  I
would say, when you’re an economy like ours, with all the kinds of
indicators the president discussed today — full employment, above-trend
GDP growth, historically low unemployment — yes, your budget deficit
should be going down because the revenues that come into — the revenues
that come into your coffers are outpacing your — your outlays.   
  
And that’s the budgets that we’ve written.  That’s something we’ve tried
to embed in our budgets, and, you know, we haven’t been able to get them
passed.   
  
What’s worrisome — and the president talked about this today — is that
the incoming administration is making sounds of going in the other
direction, which I would consider fics- — fiscally reckless.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Andrea.  
  
Q    Jared, it’s been a — a little while since I’ve seen you, so I want
to ask you a question about the speech and — and the context for it.  I
mean, so many voters cited inflation and just their pessimism about the
economy in their — in exit interviews as — as we were watching the
election.   
  
So, what is the — what is the purpose of sort of going out and saying,
“Well, we did all this right”?  Against that backdrop, it’s kind of like
water under the bridge, right?  You know, sort of, your account of the
economic progress is against the backdrop of people having said, “No,
that’s not what we want to do.”  
  
CHAIR BERNSTEIN:  Well, as I tried to express in my topper here, in my
introductory remarks, the purpose was really twofold.  One was to lay
out a set of benchmarks.  I mean, I think the president quoted Reagan in
the speech, saying, “Sometimes facts can be stubborn things,” but they
are facts.   
  
So, lay out a set of facts that are unequivocally correct about
above-trend growth trending at 3 percent on real GDP, lowest average
unemployment in 50 years, 16 million jobs, and so on — real gains in
average income of $4,000 since we got here.  Lay down a set of facts,
benchma- — 20 million new businesses — small businesses created.  Lay
down a set of benchmarks against which the progress of the incoming
administration should be judged.   
  
I mean, this is — the — the incoming team, in no small part, ran hard
against this economy.  And so, it’s entirely possible that, in some
short amount of time, that they start making very different sounds about
how — how they own these great results.  And we wanted to be sure that
we set down the benchmarks that the Biden economic agenda delivered.   
  
Secondly, how did we get there?  So, those are the benchmarks, but how
did we get there.  We certainly didn’t get there with trickle-down
economics.  We got there with the new playbook that Karine and I
referenced, and that’s a playbook that invests in American workers.  It
invests in American bargaining power.  It believes in union strength. 
It believes in fair competition.  It believes in fair taxation and a
more reasonable fiscal outlook.  It believes in pushing back on
concentrated corporate power.  
  
All of those parts of the Biden economic agenda got us to where we are
in terms of the positive indicators that we had in this — that I — we
outlined today.   
  
Now, at the same time, nobody is denying the inflation that you — you
asked about, and, in fact, the president hit that head on in two ways. 

One, first, he talked about our efforts to get inflation down.  So,
remember, in mid-June, you saw inflation peak, and after that, it turned
around and came down pretty quickly to now it’s within target — it’s —
it’s close to the Federal Reserve’s target rate, and that’s why you see
them cutting rates.   
  
And so, how did we get there?  Well, we did a great deal of work on
trying to unsnarl supply chains; the president talked about his release
of oil from the strategic reserves; and, of course, a full set of
cost-cutting measures going after junk fees, health care, and so on.   
  
The incoming administration has talked about repealing measures that
would directly raise costs, not to mention adding a set of sweeping
tariffs that would act like a national sales tax, pushing the wrong way
on inflation.   
  
So, it seems to us entirely important to reference all of those
developments in this — in this case.  
  
Q    Can I just follow up?  So, you know, given that there’s this lag in
the economy — like something happens, and then there’s a lag when you
see the effect — you know, how long will it be before, say, Trump’s
tariffs sort of make themselves felt?  Because, you know, I think your —
you know, the White House itself looked at the possibility of repealing
or removing the U.S.-China tariffs to sort of address inflation and
realized there would be only a very modest impact, so —  
  
CHAIR BERNSTEIN:  Okay.  So, first of all —  
  
Q    Like, what — what’s your prediction —  
  
CHAIR BERNSTEIN:  Sure.  I can give you some economics on that —  
  
Q    — for the lag?  Yeah.  
  
CHAIR BERNSTEIN:  — the lag structure.   
  
First of all, it’s really important in this conversation dis- — to
distinguish between targeted tariffs that are designed to protect
American industry and American taxpayers’ investment against unfair
overcapacity trade practices of the type that China has engaged in with
sweeping tariffs of multi-digit percent tariffs on everything coming in
from Europe and China.  Totally different worlds.   
  
The first prodec- — protects produ- — American producers.  The second
hurts American consumers.   
  
How quickly does that happen?  Quite quickly.   
  
So, let’s talk about how a tariff works.  And, again, I think we’ve
gotten some misguided explanations in this regard from the other side. 
The other country doesn’t — the — the exporting country doesn’t pay the
tariff.  Technically, the tariff is paid by the importing company.  It’s
paid upon customs receipt by the importer.  Now, that business then
typically pushes that tax or tariff forward to their consumers.   
  
And that’s why studies have shown that fairly quickly — I don’t want to
cite a number, but I think it’s months ra- — versus — I don’t want to
cite a time period, but I think it’s more months than — than quarters. 
So, pretty quickly, I think, we’ve seen in the past.   
  
Oh, you know what’s a good example is the washing machine tariffs.  That
— they hit very quickly.  I think it was a matter of weeks or months
before we saw the price effects on washing machines and on dryers —
American dryers, even though they weren’t tariffed.  So, the price
effects worked pretty quickly.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, M.J.  
  
Q    Thank you.  Thanks, Chair.  
  
CHAIR BERNSTEIN:  Hi, M.J.  
  
Q    Hi.  Nice to see you.   
  
You know, over the last year or so, I think we’ve all seen you field a
lot of questions about this disconnect between what you describe as a
strong economy versus the people’s generally pessimistic economic
outlook.  I just wondered — and it’s related to the last question — what
would you say is the reason that there wasn’t enough of an improvement
in people’s economic outlook by Election Day?  I assume you’ve had some
time to reflect on the results of the election.   
  
CHAIR BERNSTEIN:  It seems clear, if you look not just at our election
but at elections and approval ratings across the globe, that not just
inflation — because by the time the e- — election came along, inflation
was back down within distance of 2 percent, so it was back down close to
the Fed’s target — so, not inflation, but the price level, the
cumulative impact of inflation — so the fact that people could still
remember what things used to cost, that was a force that really whacked
incumbents in every elect- — I think, virtually every election we’ve
seen across the globe.  So, that was a very powerful force.   
  
Now, look, from our perspective, we needed to do two things.  We needed
to get inflation down, because you’ll never get — people will never be
able to acclimate to the higher price level unless inflation comes back
down to around 2 percent.  And that was behind our work on unsnarling
supply chains, which became very important in this space.  One of the
graphics that, you know, I — I like to tout from our CEA team is, if you
look at supply chain measures of stress, which go way up and way down,
pandemic and post-pandemic, and you plot them against commodities, goods
inflation, they — they track each other very closely with a bit of a
lag.  
  
And so, getting inflation back down to target was very much an important
part of agenda.  But that just means prices are rising more slowly.  It
doesn’t mean they’re falling.  And, in fact, to have a broad decline in
the price level, you would need a deep recession that nobody wants.   
  
So, what you need to happen is for incomes to catch up.   
  
Now, that — those dynamics were happening.  They were occurring.  And
I’ve spoken about this from the podium before.  I theorized, you know,
probably a couple of years ago — and one of my colleagues and I are
trying to write an academic paper about this — I theorized a couple of
years ago that if inflation came down and people had enough time to
acclimate to the new price level — an acclimation that would be very
much aided and, in fact, was essentially — it had — had to be aided by
rising real wages or incomes — eventually they’d start to get — you
know, to get acclimated and to feel better.   
  
And, you know, pa- — one — one tr- — you know, sort of, ape- — what’s
the word I want?  Sort of a trivial example of that is, you know, when I
started driving, gas was 60 cents a gallon, but I don’t walk around
annoyed that gas isn’t 60 cents a gallon because, while prices have gone
up, incomes have gone up more.   
  
That’s where we are.  Inflation is back down.  Prices — the price level
remains too high from the perspective of consumers and voters, and
that’s partly — you know, a big part of the answer to your question.   
  
I sense you want to say something else.  
  
Q    Well, just this — this long memory that people have on —  
  
CHAIR BERNSTEIN:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — price levels.  I mean, do you feel like you, the president’s
economic team, the president himself, could have done anything
differently over the last few years to better address that, better, you
know, sort of meet people where they are?  I mean, you’ve known that
that is where people’s heads —  
  
CHAIR BERNSTEIN:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — have been at for a while.   
  
CHAIR BERNSTEIN:  You know, the question of “could you have done
something different and better,” I always feel like, “Sure.”  You know,
you could always im- — nobody’s perfect, and you can always improve on
what you did.   
  
But on the issues I’m talking to you about, we were one of the first
folks to be — to be talking about this, to be understanding the
difference between inflation and price levels from people’s
perspective.   
  
I mean, I don’t know if you remember, but I brought this to our senior
staff one day.  You know, I brought this — well, I think it might have
been the only time I did this — I brought a handout to our senior staff
and said, “Let me talk to you about the difference between inflation and
the price level and how people feel about that.”  And, you know,
economics doesn’t think that much about the price level.  It thinks a
lot about inflation.  And, you know, not at all a critique of the
mandate of the Fed, that — that’s the cr- — congressional mandate and
the one they follow, but it’s full employment and stable inflation.   
  
So — and you’ll hear Chair Powell talk about that — that, “I recognize
the price level is a stress to people, but my job is to get inflation
down.”  
  
So, it’s something we’ve been on for a long time, and it’s behind the
cost-cutting work that we tried to do here.  We cut costs in health
care.  The president talked <s>tobay</s> \[today\] about junk fees.  You
saw the energy results from the SPR release and so on.   
  
We tried to get a lot more competition going in the grocery sector,
where there’s definitely not enough competition, leading to pretty high
markups and profit levels that we’ve talked about and used the bully
pulpit to convey our — our concern about, but, you know, we live in a
capitalist economy, and so prices are generally determ- — determined by
private markets.   
  
But where we could — and health care is a great example, because the
government is in 9 percent of the health care market.  So, health care
is about 18 percent of GDP; about half of that is the government.  So,
there’s an area where we could and did make a huge difference: insulin;
capping prescription drugs, which kicks in, by the way, in a couple of
weeks — the $2,000 cap on prescription drugs.  We’re very proud of that
agenda.

You know, could we have done more or talked about it differently?  You
know, I — I think we did what we could.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Annie.  
  
Q    Hey, Jared.  
  
CHAIR BERNSTEIN:  Hey.  
  
Q    Good to see you. 

One of the things the president mentioned today at Brookings was some —
he — he had a note of regret about not signing the COVID checks the way
that Donald Trump did.  And I just was wondering if that’s something you
ever talked about or if, you know, following up on M.J.’s question about
what could have been done differently, was that a debate that happened
at all?  Would you have recommended anything to the president in that
regard?  
  
CHAIR BERNSTEIN:  It’s not something I recall talking or debating
about.  
  
I mean, I will say two things about that.  One is — just to bring it
back to the economic space in which I’m — I’m more comfortable —
certainly, those checks were instrumental in what I described earlier,
which was getting businesses and consumers to the other side of the
crisis.   
  
You know, we gave people more buying power than they had at a time — and
there’s been a lot of second-guessing on this, so I’d love to set the
record kind of straight — in 20- — in January of 2021, it was peak COVID
deaths.  Okay?  The unemployment was stuck at 6.7 percent.  And I just
looked back the other day; the last jobs report when we came in was a
negative.  It had been revi- — it’s been revised differently.  I think
it’s actually been revised to be a bigger negative, but it was a
negative.  In other words, we’d lost, I think, 140,000 jobs, according
to the print that was in December of ’20.  
  
So, this was a very challenging economy.  You know, people who say, “It
was fine, and you shouldn’t have done anything,” are forgetting.  You
know, that’s — that’s amnesia.   
  
So — so, we’re very proud of the fact that this income got into people’s
hands quickly.  Who was asking about the lag a second ago?  Boy, there’s
a really tight lag there.  You know, this — this money got out quickly. 
It got into the economy quickly, and it very quickly set up an economic
expansion that is today the envy of the world.  The president isn’t
hyperbolic when he says that, and I say that having recently come back
from Europe.  Is the en- — that set up that full employment expansion
that we’ve enjoyed since then.  
  
And two — so, I said there’d be two points.  Two, he was kidding.   
  
Q    Oh, wait, he was kidding about signing the checks?  
  
CHAIR BERNSTEIN:  He was — he was kidding.  
  
Q    Oh.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Danny.   
  
Q    Thanks.  Thanks, Jared.  I just wondered if you have had the chance
yet to speak to your successor in the Trump administration, and if
you’ve got any advice for him.  
  
CHAIR BERNSTEIN:  I have not.  I don’t know who will be sitting in my
chair yet, so I haven’t spoken to that person.   
  
And then, advice?  
  
Q    Yeah.  
  
CHAIR BERNSTEIN:  That’s a good question — one I haven’t thought of.  I
would say, read the president’s speech today.  (Laughs.)  Really, I’m
not — I’m not being facetious. 

The president’s speech today is the best advice I could give to any
member of the incoming economic team, because what it says is we have
planted some very important seeds in growing domestic industry, which I
think both the outgoing and the incoming administration share the strong
desire to see American industry stand up independently, more resilient
supply chains.   
  
Yes, we still believe in very robust trade flows.  So, obviously, part
of my advice would be not to do sweeping tariffs.  Certainly, small
tariffs — you know, targeted tariffs that protect against unfair
dumping, sure.  But I would be — it would be to nurture — you know, I
mean, I guess this — this may not be the most mellifluous advice that
they want to hear, but nurture the seeds that we’ve planted.   
  
This is not a blue-state thing or a red-state thing.  And, in fact, the
president was very clear on this today, most of the investments under
the IRA, under CHIPS, even under Infrastructure, are going to red
states, not blue states.  Most of them are going to people with
relatively lower incomes or lower levels of education, so very much a
working-class issue.  
  
So, nurture the seeds.  Don’t stomp on them.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Is there anything that you have seen or heard from the incoming
administration’s economic plans that you like or that could be in line
with what you have done here?  
  
CHAIR BERNSTEIN:  You know, I’ve heard, certainly, commentary about
getting on a more fiscally sustainable path.  So, I’m thinking about
Josh’s question a moment ago.  
  
What I can’t put together is how you get there from here — well, not
from here — how you get there from what I — I believe to be their fiscal
agenda.   
  
And, in fact, there have been many scorekeepers across town who have
been scoring the cost of not just extending fully the TCJA tax cuts but
going further — tax cuts for overtime, tax cuts for Social Security, tax
cuts for tips.  And so, if you — if you tout that all up, by one study,
there was an upper bound of north of $10 trillion in terms of adding to
the deficit and the debt.   
  
So, I like some of the sound I’m hearing about getting on a more
sustainable fiscal path, but then I’m hearing a po- — a policy agenda
that goes the wrong way on that.  
  
Q    Just to follow up, you said that most of these projects are in red
states.  Certainly, the — your administration didn’t get a whole lot of
political benefit from that.  But I’m wondering, why is that?  Is it
because it’s easier, there’s less red tape, there’s less regulations in
red states, you can get projects up and going faster than in blue
states?  
  
CHAIR BERNSTEIN:  No, it’s — it’s not so much that.  It’s more that —
that these projects were targeted to communities that had been
historically left behind.  This president believes — and I think he
probably shares this belief with, you know, the incoming president to
some extent — this president believes that while there are absolutely
positive attributes to globalization, the idea that globalization didn’t
leave behind American communities and didn’t hurt anybody and uplifted
everybody is clearly wrong and — and even bereft.  I mean, to blithely
say, you know, “Here’s another trade deal; everybody is going to love it
and be fine,” is just denying the impact of the China shock and the
hollowing out that happened to the very communities we’re talking
about.   
  
So, these plans were designed in part to disproportionately send their
investments to communities that had been hollowed out and left behind:
energy communities, communities where factories — where anchor factories
were lost.  And that’s behind where those investments have flowed.   
  
Q    But a lot of battleground states are — were deindustrialized and
left behind.   
  
CHAIR BERNSTEIN:  Well, it — that —  
  
Q    I mean, you could of put projects anywhere.   
  
CHAIR BERNSTEIN:  — no — so, go to —  
  
Q    Why red states, is what I’m asking.  
  
CHAIR BERNSTEIN:  No, no.  Go to Investment.gov —  
  
Q    Well, yeah.  
  
CHAIR BERNSTEIN:  — and you’ll see that there are lots of projects there
too.  So, it’s not that — it’s not that 90 percent were in red and 10
were in blue.  It — I don’t know what the division is, but I think it’s
probably fairly close.  It’s that a lot more — you know, when the
president talked about this today, he framed it as, like, “This may not”
— you know, “Some may look at this and say this is not my greatest
political move.”  You know, that’s not where he’s coming from.  When he
said, “I’m president for all Americans,” he meant it, and he over
delivered.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.

Q    Yeah.  Hi, Jared.  Thanks for doing this.  I have a question sort
of about legacy.  Biden billed this — billed the speech this m- — this
afternoon as about an economic playbook, something that is successful
and should be replicated, but it didn’t have a lot of electoral success
and it didn’t — you know, in the minds of voters, as other folks have
said, they don’t see it as a — a success for them.  I — I just wonder,
what gives you or what gives the president confidence that this — this
should be or would be —  
  
CHAIR BERNSTEIN:  So, here you have to —  
  
Q    — replicated in the future?  
  
CHAIR BERNSTEIN:  That’s a totally fair question.  Here you really have
to get under the hood, and I’ve done this.  If you ask people what they
think about paying $35 for insulin versus $400 a month, it’s not going
to surprise you that that polls somewhere between 80 and 150 percent. 
I’m making the second number up, but it polls north of 80 percent.   
  
If you ask people how they feel about an infrastructure project that
restored a bridge in their area, again, your — you get poll num- —
you’ll get approval numbers in — in the high 70s and high 80s.  
  
If you ask people — and now I’m talking about Democrats and Republicans
— how you feel about this new computer fab that’s going — a micro- — a
microprocessor chip fab that’s going up in your town, in your area,
that’s going to provide, you know, thousands of jobs building these
fabs, which are three foot- — football fields long, and lots of jobs
staffing them, jobs that the president today said can pay up to, you
know, $100,000 for a non-college-educated person, not only are they
going to say, “Yes, we like that,” but a number of Republicans — I think
a double-digit number of Republicans — have sent notes to the incoming
administration saying, “Don’t repeal that stuff.”  

So, part one, get under the hood and look at how people feel about many
of the actions that the president talked about today.   
  
Part two, which — you know, I’m not denying the premise of your question
at all — it gets back to inflation.  And I probably haven’t said enough
about that today.  I talked to M.J. and others about the difference
between the price level and how if you remember what things cost, that
really sticks in the craw of many in the electorate, not just here but
globally.  But re- — this — this inflation was a global inflation, so
let’s not forget that.  In fact, cumulatively — we have good scatter
plots on this in our forthcoming Economic Report of the President — this
in- — this inflation cumulatively was about the same in the U.S. as it
was in Europe and G7 countries.   
  
Where we stand out from the pack is not in cumulative inflation; it’s in
growth.  It’s in productivity.  It’s in innovation.  It’s in job
creation.  And so, that’s — you know, that’s — that’s an important part
of the puzzle too.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right, we got to start to wrapping it up.   
  
Go ahead, Peter.  
  
Q    Thank you for being here, Jared.  I just want to ask you — a lot of
this has been sort of reactive to the new administration that’s coming
in.  The president-elect posted, in the course of last hour as we’ve
been gathering, that any company or person investing a billion dollars
or more into the country will receive fully expedited approvals and
permits, including environmental approvals. 

Is there any consequence to something like that?  Maybe this is a
question that’s more about the environment more broadly, but
economically, is there any reason why there’s — this should be something
that’s reconsidered against tough scrutiny?  
  
CHAIR BERNSTEIN:  I would hesitate to respond to a tweet from the
incoming president, just because I’d like to know more about what he’s
talking about and whether that’s something they’re actually planning or
something —  
  
Q    To be fair, that’s all we know about what he’s talking about.   
  
CHAIR BERNSTEIN:  Right.  
  
Q    Yeah, that’s fair.   
  
CHAIR BERNSTEIN:  So — so, I probably wouldn’t say much about that.   
  
I will say the following that speaks to that a little bit.  I keep
flacking our forthcoming book.  So, in — (laughter) — in the Economic
Report of the President, out in a few weeks, one of the chapters in that
— one of — and it — it’s not like we make any money; it’s just point and
click.  So, it’s a — you know, this is just the intellectual sharing. 
(Laughter.) 

We’ve had tremendous foreign direct investment.  And, yes, we’ve
definitely tried to make — you know, clean the brush out so — there’s —
I’m cer- — to — to help diminish the burm- — burden from permitting and
things like that.  And there’s more to do in that space, and I think
there are members of Congress — I — I — that — that is, I believe, a
bipartisan issue that we — we could be working on.  So, if the Trump
team is serious about trying to clear some of that brush, sure.  
  
But one thing I often hear too — one thing I hear too often from — from
him and them is without regard for any impacts of some of the — some of
the guardrails that are there for a reason.  So, that’s why you
shouldn’t really just respond to a tweet.  You need to look at what’s
the impact of taking down guardrails that are embedded in that — in that
tweet, but not — not realized — not recognized.  But without — you know,
even with the current situation being as it is, we’ve had tremendous
inflows of foreign direct investment.   
  
I mean, TSMC, as you well know, I suspect, is building plants and
already testing chips — and, I think, quite successfully — in their — in
their fabrication plants in — in Arizona, I believe.  
  
And, of course, across the country, we’ve seen these investments play
out.   
  
And when I think about the pictures in this chapter, the — you know, the
— the foreign direct investment charts like — they spike up like that. 
We’ve certainly seen historical investments in manufacturing facilities
in this country.   
  
We recently hit a hi- — a peak in its contr- — in the contribution of
manufacturing facilities in this country, its contribution to GDP was
recently the highest it’s been since the early 1980s.  So, that’s not
just domestic investment, that’s global investment.  We’re very proud of
it.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  All right.  Go ahead, Jared.  Last question.  
  
Q    Thank you.  So, the — the — I guess, more broadly, the audience for
the address today, was it, like, you said, just for the American people
to — to know sort of what you were and then kind of how to judge the
next four years, or is this kind of a call to action for members of
Congress, for Democrats to think before maybe they go along with some of
these policies legislatively?  
  
CHAIR BERNSTEIN:  I mean, I think that in some ways, sure, the latter of
what you said, in the sense that the president was very clearly
outlining two very alternative economic playbooks, and he was very
critical of the former — the trickle-down model — and — and, you know,
very much underscoring the progress that we’ve made with the invest in
America, invest in workers, worker — invest in unions, invest in tax
fairness, invest in domestic industries in this country.   
  
That’s the agenda, you know, that he obviously argued today is far
superior to growing the economy in a lasting way to trickle-down tax
cuts for rich people, which, as I said earlier, simply worsen the fiscal
outlook and enrich their beneficiaries.   
  
What I would say in terms of, you know, a me- — I don’t know that there
was some sort of, you know — no hidden message to politicians in there,
but I’ve tried to say today, one, I think, useful way of looking at what
he talked about today is this investment agenda.  You know, strong
consumer spending at 70 percent of our economy, that’s important.  But
investment, you know, is another 10, 15 percent, and that’s important
too.   
  
Consumer spending helped us get to where we are, helped us — strong
consumers on the backs of a strong labor market, easing inflation,
strong real wage and income gains, that’s helped get us to where we
are.  And, in fact, a healthy American consumer off the backs of a
strong full-employment job market will always propel this economy
forward because consumer spending is 70 percent of our GDP.  In Europe,
it’s 55 percent.  In China, it’s 40 percent.  So, that’s a natural place
for us to have gone.  
  
But for investing in the future, you got to plant seeds.  So, the
message to anyone — D, R, whomever — from the speech today is nurture
those seeds.  Take those seeds that we’ve planted — and, by the way,
these are not sprouts in the ground.  I mean, these are seeds that have
a hundred — that have a trillion dollars of private capital backing
them.  So, they’re sprouting.   
  
I think I better put this tortured metaphor aside pretty soon. 
(Laughter.)  But, you know, th- — those sprouts need to be nurtured. 
And I don’t care if you have a D or an R next to your name, you need to
roll up your sleeves and start nurturing.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  (Laughs.)  Nurturing.   
  
All right.  Thank you so much, Chair.  Appreciate it.  
  
CHAIR BERNSTEIN:  Thank you.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We will be nurturing —  
  
CHAIR BERNSTEIN:  I’ll bet you will.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — those seeds.  (Laughter.)  
  
All good?  
  
CHAIR BERNSTEIN:  Yeah, it’s good.     
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  Thank you so much, Jared.  Appreciate
it.   
  
Q    We’ll take signed copies of the book.  (Laughter.)  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  That’s right.  
  
All right.  Just have two more things to share with all of you at the
top, and then we’ll get — we’ll continue.   
  
So, today, following the G7’s June agreement and the president’s October
commitment, the United States has disbursed $20 billion to a New World
Bank fund that will provide economic support for Ukraine.  The U.S. and
G7 loans will be paid back by the interest earned from Russia’s
immobilized sovereign assets, increasingly putting the cost of the war
on Russia, not on U.S. taxpayers.  
  
After Russia’s brutal invasion of Ukraine, the G7 made a commitment that
Russian sovereign assets in our jurisdictions will remain immobilized
until Russia ends its aggression and pays for the damages it has caused
Ukraine.  The United States and G7 are now making good on that
commitment.   
  
Together, we will leverage income earned from frozen Russian sovereign
assets to provide a total of $50 billion of extraordinary revenue
acceleration, ERA, loans to Ukraine.  This will lend vital support to
the people of Ukraine as they defend their country, and it also makes
clear aggressors and tyrants will be responsible for the damage they
cause.   
  
And finally, tomorrow, the president and the first lady will host the
first-ever White House Conference on Women’s Resear- — Health Research. 
The conference will bring together business — business, philanthropic
leaders, academic researchers, advocates, investors, and administration
officials to dicu- — discuss the president and first lady’s historic
leadership to advance women’s health research.   
  
President Biden and First Lady Jill Biden created the White House
Initiative on Women’s Health Research to fundamentally change how our
nations approaches and funds women’s health research.  The reality is,
despite making up more than half the population, women have historically
been understudied and underrepresented in health research.  
  
To help close these gaps, President Biden called on Congress to make a
transformative investment of $12 billion in new funding for women’s
health research in his 2024 State of the Union.  He also signed an
executive order to advance women’s health research and innovative,
directing the most comprehensive set of executive actions ever taken to
expand and improve women — research on women’s health.  
  
Since its launch in November of 2023, we’re proud that the initiative
has galvanized nearly $1 billion in funding to close gaps in research. 
And tomorrow, you will hear directly from the president, you will hear
directly from the first lady, who are going to discuss this progress and
the work that still remains. 

And stay tuned for more.  
  
With that, Josh, as always, it’s good to see you.  
  
Q    Good to see you.   
  
Given the killing of the UnitedHealthcare executive, what would you say
to Americans who might sympathize with Luigi Mangione’s purported
manifesto indicating that insurance companies ultimately care more about
their profits than the health of their customers?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, let me just s- —  
  
Q    Is that — is that —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m sorry.  
  
Q    — premise, like —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    Do you — is that premise accurate in any way?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, let me just say at the top — offer up, certainly,
our condolences to the victims and his loved ones.  We are certainly
tracking the latest regarding this deadly shooting.   
  
As you all know, local enforcement is leading the investigation, and the
FBI certainly is supporting.  So, we will know more as they complete
their work, and we’re going to give them the space to do just that.   
  
And we are grateful to law enforcement for apprehending the suspect, and
we stand ready to provide further support if needed.   
  
And so, while we’re certainly not going to comment on the investigation,
we condemn — we condemn violence in the strongest term.   
  
And so, I’m just going to be really careful here and not comment on this
case, as we do normally.  It’s not — it’s our usual step forward, as —
as we talk about these types of situations.   
  
Obviously, this is horrific.  Violence to combat any sort of com- —
corporate greed is unacceptable.  And so, that is as far as I’m going to
go.  
  
I’m going to let the investigation move forward, and I’m not going to
speak to any manifestos or anything that has —  
  
Q    But —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — is coming out to this.  
  
Q    Let me follow.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Sure.  
  
Q    This administration has made price gouging a priority.  It’s talked
about junk fees.  The president just outlined part of this in his
economic speech.   
  
Are Americans treated fairly by their insurance companies?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, I think what — I want to be careful, because
this is indeed connected to this case, connected to this ongoing
investigation.  I do want to be mindful in how — what I say from here,
and I’m going to let this open investigation continue and let — let the
law enforcement do their job.  I think it’s important that we give them
the space to do that, and I don’t want to speak to what has been said by
this particular individual.   
  
Obviously, we are going to continue to condemn any form of violence. 
That is unacceptable.   
  
And so, that is as far as I can go from here, given that this is an
ongoing investigation, and speaking to it would not be the right thing
to do right now from this podium.  
  
Go ahead, Karen.  
  
Q    Okay.  A couple questions about drones.  There have been repeated
drone sightings in the Northeast, especially in New Jersey.  These are
not small drones; some of them are pretty large.  They’re flying at low
altitudes.  They’re flying in flocks.  Has the president been briefed on
this situation?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, we are certainly aware.  The president is aware. 
So, we’re closely tracking the activity and coordinating closely with
relevant agency, including DHS and FBI, to continue the — to investigate
these incidents.   
  
Don’t have anything beyond that to share.  Obviously, this is something
that DHS and FBI are tracking very, very closely, and so I would have to
refer you to — to them directly.  
  
But aware, keeping an eye out, and looking into the incidents that you
just mentioned.  
  
Q    Right.  A couple still, though, but —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, yeah.  
  
Q    — has the — has the federal government ruled out that these are
controlled by foreign entities?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    And do you know if they’re conducting surveillance  
over these areas?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I cannot make any pr- — any kind of predictions or
— or comments about that specifically from here.  This is something that
DHS is looking at and FBI, so I would have to refer you to them.   
  
I don’t have anything beyond that we’re tracking this very closely. 
Obviously, we’re all aware of the incidents that have been reported.  I
— I’m not going to go into what they could be or could not be from here.
 That is something that obviously is being looked at — those — those
respective agencies that I just mentioned.  
  
Q    When was the president briefed on this?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have a timeline, but he certainly have — has
been made aware of this in his — in his update.  
  
Q    Okay.  And the New Jersey governor said, you know, it’s frustrating
that there aren’t answers about where these are coming from, that people
are very concerned about this.  What’s the White House message to the
people up there who are frustrated that there isn’t any information
right now?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  And — and, obviously, we hear them and we
understand that.  We are closely tracking this.  We are monitoring the
incidents that have been put forward and — and certainly made public.  
  
And we have two respect- — two agencies that I’ve already mentioned that
are looking into this, working closely with folks on the ground, trying
to get to the bottom of it.   
  
I don’t have anything more to share beyond that.   
  
Go ahead, Andrea.  I was trying to see who else I can call —  
  
Q    (Laughs.)  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — because I know I called on you already.  
  
Q    So, I just want to follow up on your comment — or your — your —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — desire to not comment, necessarily, on the UnitedHealthcare
thing.  But you did use the words “corporate greed.”  So, just to —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  You mean, just in general in this administration?  Or
— or —  
  
Q    Well, I mean, in terms of — in ter- — you — you talked about the
horrific response.  I’ll just read it back.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    “Obviously, this is a horrific response.”   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, you mean in my answer.  
  
Q    You know, your — “This is horrific.  Violence to combat any sort of
corporate greed is unacceptable.”  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    So, I mean, are you saying that you buy the argument that this
violence was specifically targeted —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I —  
  
Q    — at some sort of corporate greed by UnitedHealthcare?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  What I’m saying is that anything — right? — any type
of violence on whatever it is — right? — whether it’s political violence
or — or any kind of violence, we are going to — we’re going to continue
to say it is unacceptable and we’re going to condemn any form of
violence.   
  
And that’s what — I was bringing it more so in a broader spectrum of —
of what we have been pretty consistent in saying at this podium, in this
administration — certainly this president as well.  
  
Any form of violence — any form of violence, whether — what it is, we
are going to certainly condemn it.  
  
Q    And then just to switch gears.  The president today, during his
remarks at Brookings, talked about leaving office but not going away and
continuing to work on polarization and division issues.  Do you have
anything to share with us in terms of the president’s plans?  He’s cut
short his, you know, sort of — you know, what will he be doing over the
holidays?  Can you just sort of give us a little readout on — on what
he’s planning and whether, you know, there — there would be a foundation
or — or how he envisions working on polarization?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, you’re talking what his —  
  
Q    Post.  Post.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — what his world will look like post his presidency? 
Look, I’m going to let the president speak to that.  Obviously, he gave
you a little bit of a window of his thinking of what he sees his world
post-January 20th.  I don’t want to get ahead of him.   
  
This is someone, if you think about it — right? — in — in — more
broadly, he has had a 52-year career in public service.  So, he is a
public servant to his core and always believes in doing everything that
he can to make Americans’ lives better.  And you saw him do that in the
last almost four years.  And he’s going to continue, certainly, doing
that in the next 41 days — the last 41 days of his administration.   
  
And so, that is inherently who he is.  He talks about continuing to do
the work that he truly believes in.   
  
Obviously, he talked about polarization.  This is something that he’s
talked about for some time.  And this is also a president — whether he
was president, vice president, or senator — and you know this, if — if
you followed his career very closely — he has — he has found ways to
reach across the aisles to get things done on behalf of the American
people.  And so, I’m sure that is something that he wants to continue to
— to speak to.   
  
But I — I don’t have anything to share.  I’m going to let him certainly
lay that out when he feels is the right time to do so.  
  
Q    And just, really quickly, I know that Kirby spoke with us earlier,
but the — the question that I have is on Syria and the — it looks like
the government there now is sort of — or the ch- — direction seems to be
to embrace an open market economy.  Can you say anything more about
further contacts that you’ve had with — with the opposition forces there
in Syria and what your — your, sort of, understanding is about the
direction that that government will take?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, what I will say is — and what you’ve heard
from many of my NSC colleagues over the past couple days, and certainly
from the president on Sunday when he spoke to the developments in Syria
on — on Sunday, when he gave — gave remarks in the Roosevelt Room — so,
what we can say and what I can say is that we are in contact with all
the Syrian groups, including through — with inter- — intermed- —
including intermediaries, as we work to do whatever we can to support
the Syrian people through a transition.  And so, that’s what I can speak
to.   
  
You heard the president say that various leaders of the rebel — rebel
grou- — groups, including HTS, are saying what we view to be the right
things publicly, obviously.  But what is important is what they’re
saying closely matches their — what they’re saying — their actions
closely match their words, and that’s what needs to be seen.   
  
But I’m not going to go beyond that at this time.  But certainly, we are
in touch with Syrian groups.  
  
Go ahead, M.J.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  Just quickly following up on the — the murder of
Brian Thompson.  Can you give us any sense of how the president himself
has been processing those headlines?  I think even just setting aside
the debate that it has prompted about the health care industry, I think
just the image itself has been so shocking to a lot of people.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  And — and I’m going to be honest, I haven’t had
a — a deep-dive conversation with this — the president about this. 
Obviously, I know that he has been updated.  Certainly, have — have
talked to him about what — what has been reported, and he’s been updated
by senior members — other senior members of his team.  So, haven’t gone
into the images or anything like that specifically.   
  
But what I can say and what we’ve been really consistent — and I just
mentioned this to one of your colleagues — is denouncing violence and
how horrific this — obviously, this incident is.  And it is important to
certainly continue to — to say it’s unacceptable, continue to say that
we condemn it.   
  
And we are trying to be really mindful because this is an ongoing legal
matter.  And so, what we say at this podium, as you know, goes far and
wide and — and has impact.  So, we’re trying to su- — be super, super
careful from here.   
  
But the thing that I can say is condemn the violence that we have — that
we saw certainly last couple of da- — the — couple days ago on this — on
this issue.  
  
Q    And just separately, can you confirm that the president still
opposes the death penalty?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  N- — he — his view has not changed on that.  
  
Q    Okay.  Given that his view on that hasn’t changed, can you talk to
us a little bit about — I know you’re not wanting to, you know, share
anything that you’re not prepared to share yet, but given that that has
been his stance, is he currently considering the possibility of the
commutation of inmates that are currently on death row?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Again, I’m not going to go ahead of the president’s
thinking.  Certainly, we will have more to announce on pardons and
commutations, as I’ve said many times before, but there’s a process. 
He’s reviewing it.  He’s thinking through it.  I’m just not going to get
into any specifics from here at this time. 

When he’s ready to make announcements, we’ll certainly, obviously, share
that with all of you.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Quickly, you mentioned the president can speak for himself on a lot
of these issues.  Will he give a year-end press conference?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have anything to share.  Obviously, the
president is going to — wants to continue to engage with all of you.  I
don’t have anything to share on — on that.  
  
Q    The former defense min- — Israeli defense minister was here today. 
Any updates on where the hostage negotiations stand?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have anything to update you on that.  As you
know — and we’ve been pretty consistent about this and — and pretty
forthright on saying how we’re — certainly continue to be committed and
working 24/7 to get the hostages home.  This is a priority for this
president, and he wants to do everything and continue to do everything
that we can to do that.  
  
National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan is going to be traveling to
Israel this week to meet with Israeli officials as part of our close
consultations on a range of important issues, including our efforts to
reach a hostage release and ceasefire deal in Gaza, and so — and the
latest development in Syria and — and for discussions about Lebanon and
Iran.   
  
So, that is happening.  Jake will be going to the region.  And, as you
probably already know, he’s going to be meeting with the hostage — the
hostage — the families of hostages in Gaza.  And so, they’re going to be
meeting this afternoon, if they haven’t already.  And this is something
that — as you know, he has spoken to this before.  Jake Sullivan
regularly meets with the families of these hostages, and he has done
that multiple time throughout this past — past year.  And so, that is —
that is something that he’s — he will be — he’s been doing — he’s going
to be doing today.   
  
And so, we have been really clear.  This president has been really
focused on his commitment on bringing Americans who have been wrongfully
detained, held hostage.  I think we have brought home over 75 Americans
who are unjustly detained around the world.  And so, that commitment
continues.   
  
And so, that is certainly what we’re going to work on 24/7 from here.  
  
Q    And — and to that note, the president said that he believes that
Austin Tice, the American journalist held in Syria, is alive.  What
exactly is that based off of?  And has there been any movement in terms
of securing his release?   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, let me just say at the top that that is a
priority.  You heard that from the president when he took, I think — he
made a statement and certainly took a question about this on Sunday. 
Finding Austin Tice is a ti- — top priority of this administration.   
  
The FBI and State Department have offered up to $11 million in reward to
— to anyone who can provide information.   
  
We do not know where he is located.  We do not know.  But we continue to
hope that he is alive.  And I think that’s what you hear from this —
this president: that he is hopeful that he is still alive.   
  
And we’re talking through, certainly, this with the Turks and others to
find him and to bring him home, and that is our commitment from this
president.  
  
I will say, more broadly, to answer the question, there is no indication
that he’s not alive, but there’s also no indication about his location
or his condition.   
  
So, again, we are hopeful.  We are hopeful that he is, and we’re going
to continue to do the work to bring him home.  
  
Q    Sorry, just to follow up.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    So, when the president says he believes he is alive, are you saying
he’s really saying that he’s hopeful he’s alive?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, there’s no indication he’s not alive.  There
isn’t.  But at the same time, we do not know his location and we do not
know his condition.  That is just the — sadly, the realities that we’re
in.  
  
You heard what I just laid out about what the FBI and the State
Department have done: offered up $11 million in r- — awar- — rewards to
anyone who can provide more information.  I think that shows our
commitment to bringing him home, and that’s what you’re going to
continue to see from this president.  
  
Again, I — I talked about how he has — in his administration, has
brought home more than 75 Americans who have been wrongfully detained. 
And so, I think you can see this president and hear this president’s
commitment to doing that, getting Austin Tice home to his family.  
  
Go ahead, Peter.  
  
Q    Can you detail how recently — or when most recently President Biden
himse- — himself spoke to the Tice family, what the engagements with the
family look right now, and then, what, with some specificity, is being
done to try to secure more information?  Is there a hostage recovery
effort that’s taking place that is physically in Damascus on the
ground?  There are American troops there.  What more can you tell us
about that outfit?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I don’t — I would have to check in.  I don’t have
a — any update on — on a conversation that — when is the last time the
conversation — the president had a conversation —  
  
Q    None — none since the fall of Assad, that you know of?   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I just — I — I don’t — I just want to be super
mindful.   
  
Q    Got it.  Got it.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I just haven’t had that conversation, so I don’t have
anything to share with you on the last time the president has spoken
with Austin’s family.  
  
As you know, Jake Sullivan, the national security advisor, spoke to his
family just last week.  So, that has occurred.  There has been
engagement and — and — from us with the family.  So, just want to make
that clear.   
  
Look, I — I just laid out how the FBI and the State Department has
offered up $11 million in — in rewards — right? — to try and get more
information.   
  
We do not know his location and we do not know his condition.  And so,
we are trying to do everything that we can to get that information.   
  
We are committed to bringing him home.  And so, that is what you heard
from the president, certainly, on Sunday when he was asked directly this
question — or asked a question arou- –about Austin.  And so, that is —
continues to be our commitment.   
  
So, we are certainly working through the Turks and others to find — to
find him and bring him home. 

So, that is the actions that we have been taking.  And so, I don’t have
anything else to share beyond that.  
  
Q    If you have anything more to share, I trust you’ll tell us.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yes.  
  
Q    Let me ask you, if I can — following up on a question that was
asked to Jared that — that raised this thought for me: Have you had any
conversations with your successor —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — to the podium, Karoline Leavitt?  And, specifically, what advice
would you give to her when she takes the podium?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, I was asked a questions like — a question like
this when her announcement was made.  And certainly, I wish her all the
luck.  And this is a great job.  I love this job.  It has been an honor
and a privilege to serve as the White House press secretary to this
president — to President Biden, to this administration.  And — and I
hope she enjoys it, and I hope — you know, again, I — I just wish her
well.  
  
This has been an experience that I will always remember — (laughs) — a
lifetime — one of — one of those experiences that will live with you
forever.  And — and, you know, I know people say how tough this job is
and how unre- — unrelenting it could be, but I enjoy it.  I’ve enjoyed
this opportunity.  I’ve enjoyed speaking on behalf of the president of
the United States.  That is a big deal.  That is an important job.   
  
I have not spoken to her, but certainly wish her well.  
  
Q    Obviously, you wish her well.  So, those are good wishes.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    But in terms of advice, what is your advice?   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, look — look, one of the things that we have — I
hope you all agree — in this administration, is we have brought back the
norms of how to engage with the press, having these press briefings,
doing these back-and-forths, and trying to do that in the most
respectful way that we can.  And I think it’s important.  It’s
important.  
  
We did that not because of all of you here — obviously, we respect the
work that you do, but also what — what — the job that you do and what it
means to the American people.  
  
Q    So, to be clear, would you urge the new White House to have a daily
press briefing?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — I am not going to —  
  
Q    That seems easy.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, no, no.  No, no.  No, no.  I — I think they have
to decide for themselves how they want to move forward with a Trump
administration.  That is for them to decide.   
  
What I can say is bringing back the norms, I thought — I think — we
believe, not even “I” think — the president believed was incredibly
important to do.  Having this back-and-forth with all of you, we believe
was important to do on behalf of the American people.   
  
Being able to have the freedom of the press — right? — and respecting
the freedom of the press is, indeed, very much a part of our democracy. 
The — we call you all the “fourth of state,” right?  That is incredibly
important to have — to have that be part of this administration.  The
job that you do, reporting on what we’re doing, even when we disagree
with  
all of you — not all of you; with some of you.  (Laughter.)  
  
I won’t say “with all of you” — a blanket “all of you.”  (Laughter.)  
  
But even when we disagree, just generally — right? — even when we
disagree, we believe it’s important to have that back-and-forth, and
it’s healthy, it is part of our democracy, and we want to continue to
respect — certainly continue to respect that.

I’m not — it is up to them.  I’m not sitting behind the — the Resolute
Desk, and that is for that person to decide — the next person to decide
how they’re going to move forward. 

Q    Thank you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yep. 

Go ahead.

Q    Yeah, two quick ones.  One on the U.S. Steel matter.  Is the — can
you give us an update on the timeline?  And is the president committed
to making a decision one way or the other before he leaves office, or is
it —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — a possibility he’ll let —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — I —

Q    — his successor make that decision?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have any update for you on that.  I don’t have
an update.

Q    Next one.  Same question: TikTok.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  What about TikTok?  (Laughter.)

Q    Is the president — is the president —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I was — I was —

Q    — committed to making a determination —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Do I like TikTok?  What — (laughs).

Q    — on TikTok —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — before he leaves office, or is that something he might leave to
his successor?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look — so, I’m going to refer you to the
Department of Justice, who has put out a statement on this, and the
court’s finding that, and I quote, the government “has offered pers- —
persuasive evidence demonstrating that the act is narrowly tailored to
protect national security” and — another quote here — “to counter a
well-substa- — substantiated national security threat.”

I’ll just reiterate: The administration and a strong par- — bipartisan
majority of Congress that passed this law have been clear that we want
to — we want to see is a divestment, not a ban.  We’ve been very clear
about that.  You’ve heard us talk about that from here ad nauseam, I’m
sure, for all of you. 

So, this is not about banning the app.  This is about preventing the PRC
from being able to exploit data gathered on many Americans.  So, this is
about protecting our privacy and — American privacy.  And so, that’s
what we’ve been very clear about that. 

Outside of that, I would have to refer you to the Department of Justice.

Q    This is a presidential determination under the law that —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I would — I would refer you to the Department of
Justice since there was just a — a decision made about this, so I’m
going to refer you to this on that.

Go ahead.  I —

Q    Thank you.  Two questions.  One on Brazil.  One on Haiti.

Haiti —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    Haiti — do you have a reaction to the massacre that —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — recently happened?  One hundred and eighty people were killed. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, we are horrified — horrified by the reporting that
nearly 200 people in Haiti were needlessly mass- — massacred, as you
just stated, by self-serving criminal gang members.  And so, we
strongly, strongly condemn this vicious and — and criminal act.  And we
call upon all of the international community to immediately stand with
the people of Haiti and provide assistance to the Kenyan-led
multinational security support mission. 

But it is incredibly sad to us, what we — been reported, and it’s
horrific.  And, I mean, these are people who were needlessly massacred,
again, by self-serving criminal gang members.  And it is — it is
certainly disheartening to hear.

Q    And in Brazil, the president — President Biden met with President
Lula of Brazil last month.  Today, President Lula was — he was
undergoing surgery.  Has the president been following this?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, he is aware, and — and, you’re right, the
president was in Brazil recently.  He — he enjoyed President Lula’s warm
— warm welcome to Brazil just a couple of weeks ago, just last month. 
And so, we are pleased to hear that his operation this morning went
well.  And certainly, we wish him a speedy recovery.  And as you just
asked me, the president is aware and is tracking. 

Okay.  Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  One of the first things that the president did
when he took office was rescind former President Trump’s order creating
a Schedule F that would have allowed thousands upon thousands of civil
servants to be fired if they were determined to be in a — in a
policy-making position.  And the administration has finalized
regulations that would make doing that harder for a future president,
but the president never got behind any of the bipartisan bills that
would have prohibited future presidents from reclassifying civil
servants, employees to make them more easily fireable.  Does he regret
not doing that, considering that President-elect Trump has indicated he
wants to immediately bring back Schedule F and begin firing lots of
civil servants?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, what I will say is — and you stated this in your
question to me, and I think the president has led by example.  You said
what he was — what he did the first couple of days, couple of weeks,
even months when he stepped into this office, into this administration,
and trying to protect, certainly, and turning back some of the policies
— policies that were put forward.  And the reason he did that is because
this is a president who believes that public servants deserve — they
deserve to be treated with dignity and respect because they are working
on behalf of — of their fellow Americans.   
  
And so, he took those actions because he believed that.  And he took
that — those actions because he was able to lead by example in this
office.   
  
And so, I’m not going to get into what the next administration is going
to do or not do, but what I can say is — really, very much into how you
led into your question to me, is that he respects public servants, and
he certainly has led by example from here.  
  
Q    But the president, he had a democratic trifecta when he came into
office, and yet he did not put any of his political capital into getting
Congress to include, in any of the must-pass bills, legislation that
would have prohibited future presidents from doing what Donald Trump has
— has vowed to do.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    And the regulations that the administration has finalized can be
undone.  They can be unwound.  And all of what happened — of what the
administration did can be for naught.   
  
Why did the president not, if he — if he respects and — respects civil
servants so much, did he not put any political capital into safeguarding
—  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — their status in legislation?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, first, Andrew, I’m not going to litigate each
policy, each legislation.  I’m just not going to do that from here.  And
so, that is something that I’m not going to get into.  
  
What I will say is the president took action.  You said it in your
question.  He took action to undo some of the policies that were put
forward by the last administration that harmed these public servants
that were working very hard to the work — to do the work on behalf of
the American people.  And he did lead by example.  He did.  He took
steps, and — and he did that because he believes in respecting and
showing some dignity to those workers.  
  
And he undid a lot of the harm that was caused — policies, obviously, to
these public servants.  And I think that is showing leadership.  That is
showing how you can take action to do the right thing.   
  
And so, I would — so, I would obviously take a little offense to your
question, but I’m not going to litigate each legislation.  You said it
yourself in asking me this question — original question.  The president
did take action.  He did lead by example, and I think that’s important
here.  
  
I’m going to take one last question.  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  Just quickly.  Has the president been briefed on
the fires out in California?  Is the White House in touch with
officials?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  He — he certainly has been kept up to date to the
fires in Malibu, California, more specifically.  So, we are certainly
praying for communities out west that have been, in fact, impacted by
the wildfires.  And administration officials, as we normally are, are in
close touch with local and state officials on the ground.  Their
counterparts and FEMA has issued a — a Fire Management Assistant Grant
to help reimburse California for firefight- — -fighting cost.  
  
And so, we are obviously always grateful to the brave firefighters who
go out there and put their lives on the line to protect people and save
lives.  And so, we stand ready — as we normally do, stand ready to pr- —
to provide any further support.  And so, we certainly, as we do at all
times when we see this type of extreme weather that’s created, this type
of havoc that communities on the ground, folks on the ground, need to
certainly pay close attention to what’s being said to them.  Evacuate,
if needed.  And we want them to be <s>stafe</s> \[safe\] and to stay
safe.  
  
All right.  Thanks, everybody.  I’ll see you (inaudible).  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Thanks, everybody.  
  
3:42 P.M. EST  
  
  
  
