---
date: '2025-02-13'
modified_time: 2025-02-14 11:24:44-05:00
published_time: 2025-02-13 11:15:06-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefings-statements/2025/02/united-states-india-joint-leaders-statement/
tags: briefings-statements
title: "United States-India Joint Leaders\u2019 Statement"
---
 
The President of the United States of America, The Honorable Donald J.
Trump hosted the Prime Minister of India, Shri Narendra Modi for an
Official Working Visit in Washington, DC on February 13, 2025.    
  
As the leaders of sovereign and vibrant democracies that value freedom,
the rule of law, human rights, and pluralism, President Trump and Prime
Minister Modi reaffirmed the strength of the India-U.S. Comprehensive
Global Strategic Partnership, anchored in mutual trust, shared
interests, goodwill and robust engagement of their citizens.   
  
Today, President Trump and Prime Minister Modi launched a new initiative
– the **“U.S.-India COMPACT (Catalyzing Opportunities for Military
Partnership, Accelerated Commerce & Technology) for the 21st Century”**
– to drive transformative change across key pillars of cooperation.
Under this initiative, they committed to a results-driven agenda with
initial outcomes this year to demonstrate the level of trust for a
mutually beneficial partnership.      
  
**Defense **  
  
1.    Highlighting the deepening convergence of U.S.-India strategic
interests, the leaders reaffirmed their unwavering commitment to a
dynamic defense partnership spanning multiple domains. To advance
defense ties further, the leaders announced plans to sign this year a
new ten-year **Framework for the U.S.-India Major Defense Partnership in
the 21st Century. **  
  
2.    The leaders welcomed the significant integration of U.S.-origin
defense items into India’s inventory to date, including C‑130J Super
Hercules, C‑17 Globemaster III, P‑8I Poseidon aircraft; CH‑47F Chinooks,
MH‑60R Seahawks, and AH‑64E Apaches; Harpoon anti-ship missiles; M777
howitzers; and MQ‑9Bs.  The leaders determined that the U.S. would
expand defense sales and co-production with India to strengthen
interoperability and defense industrial cooperation.  They announced
plans to pursue this year new procurements and co-production
arrangements for “Javelin” Anti-Tank Guided Missiles and “Stryker”
Infantry Combat Vehicles in India to rapidly meet India’s defense
requirements. They also expect completion of procurement for six
additional P-8I Maritime Patrol aircraft to enhance India’s maritime
surveillance reach in the Indian Ocean Region following agreement on
sale terms.   
  
3.    Recognizing that India is a Major Defense Partner with Strategic
Trade Authorization-1 (STA‑1) authorization and a key Quad partner, the
U.S. and India will review their respective arms transfer regulations,
including International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR), in order to
streamline defense trade, technology exchange and maintenance, spare
supplies and in-country repair and overhaul of U.S.-provided defense
systems. The leaders also called for opening negotiations this year for
a Reciprocal Defense Procurement (RDP) agreement to better align their
procurement systems and enable the reciprocal supply of defense goods
and services. The leaders pledged to accelerate defense technology
cooperation across space, air defense, missile, maritime and undersea
technologies, with the U.S. announcing a review of its policy on
releasing fifth generation fighters and undersea systems to India.   
  
4.    Building on the U.S.-India Roadmap for Defense Industrial
Cooperation and recognizing the rising importance of autonomous systems,
the leaders announced a new initiative – the **Autonomous Systems
Industry Alliance (ASIA)** – to scale industry partnerships and
production in the Indo-Pacific.  The leaders welcomed a new partnership
between Anduril Industries and Mahindra Group on advanced autonomous
technologies to co-develop and co-produce state-of-the-art maritime
systems and advanced AI-enabled counter Unmanned Aerial System (UAS) to
strengthen regional security, and between L3 Harris and Bharat
Electronics for co-development of active towed array systems.   
  
5.    The leaders also pledged to elevate military cooperation across
all domains – air, land, sea, space, and cyberspace – through enhanced
training, exercises, and operations, incorporating the latest
technologies.  The leaders welcomed the forthcoming “Tiger Triumph”
tri-service exercise (first inaugurated in 2019) with larger scale and
complexity to be hosted in India.   
  
6.    Finally, the leaders committed to break new ground to support and
sustain the overseas deployments of the U.S. and Indian militaries in
the Indo-Pacific, including enhanced logistics and intelligence sharing,
as well as arrangements to improve force mobility for joint humanitarian
and disaster relief operations along with other exchanges and security
cooperation engagements.  
  
**Trade and Investment**  
  
7.    The leaders resolved to expand trade and investment to make their
citizens more prosperous, nations stronger, economies more innovative
and supply chains more resilient.  They resolved to deepen the
U.S.-India trade relationship to promote growth that ensures fairness,
national security and job creation.  To this end, the leaders set a bold
new goal for bilateral trade – **“Mission 500”** – aiming to more than
double total bilateral trade to $500 billion by 2030.    
  
8.    Recognizing that this level of ambition would require new,
fair-trade terms, the leaders announced plans to negotiate the first
tranche of a mutually beneficial, multi-sector **Bilateral Trade
Agreement (BTA)** by fall of 2025. The leaders committed to designate
senior representatives to advance these negotiations and to ensure that
the trade relationship fully reflects the aspirations of the COMPACT. To
advance this innovative, wide-ranging BTA, the U.S. and India will take
an integrated approach to strengthen and deepen bilateral trade across
the goods and services sector, and will work towards increasing market
access, reducing tariff and non-tariff barriers, and deepening supply
chain integration.   
  
9.    The leaders welcomed early steps to demonstrate mutual commitment
to address bilateral trade barriers. The United States welcomed India’s
recent measures to lower tariffs on U.S. products of interest in the
areas of bourbon, motorcycles, ICT products and metals, as well as
measures to enhance market access for U.S. agricultural products, like
alfalfa hay and duck meat, and medical devices.  India also expressed
appreciation for U.S. measures taken to enhance exports of Indian
mangoes and pomegranates to the United States.  Both sides also pledged
to collaborate to enhance bilateral trade by increasing U.S. exports of
industrial goods to India and Indian exports of labor-intensive
manufactured products to the United States. The two sides will also work
together to increase trade in agricultural goods.  
  
10.    Finally, the leaders committed to drive opportunities for U.S.
and Indian companies to make greenfield investments in high-value
industries in each other’s countries.  In this regard, the leaders
welcomed ongoing investments by Indian companies worth approximately
$7.35 billion, such as those by Hindalco’s Novelis in finished aluminum
goods at their state-of-the art facilities in Alabama and Kentucky; JSW
in steel manufacturing operations at Texas and Ohio; Epsilon Advanced
Materials in the manufacture of critical battery materials in North
Carolina; and Jubilant Pharma in the manufacture of injectables in
Washington. These investments support over 3,000 high-quality jobs for
local families.   
  
**Energy Security**  
  
11.    The leaders agreed that energy security is fundamental to
economic growth, social well-being and technical innovation in both
countries. They underscored the importance of U.S.-India collaboration
to ensure energy affordability, reliability, and availability and stable
energy markets. Realizing the consequential role of the U.S. and India,
as leading producers and consumers, in driving the global energy
landscape, the leaders re-committed to the U.S.-India Energy Security
Partnership, including in oil, gas, and civil nuclear energy.   
  
12.    The leaders underscored the importance of enhancing the
production of hydrocarbons to ensure better global energy prices and
secure affordable and reliable energy access for their citizens. The
leaders also underscored the value of strategic petroleum reserves to
preserve economic stability during crises and resolved to work with key
partners to expand strategic oil reserve arrangements.  In this context,
the U.S. side affirmed its firm support for India to join the
International Energy Agency as a full member.   
  
13.    The leaders reaffirmed their commitment to increase energy trade,
as part of efforts to ensure energy security, and to establish the
United States as a leading supplier of crude oil and petroleum products
and liquified natural gas to India, in line with the growing needs and
priorities of our dynamic economies. They underscored the tremendous
scope and opportunity to increase trade in the hydrocarbon sector
including natural gas, ethane and petroleum products as part of efforts
to ensure supply diversification and energy security. The leaders
committed to enhance investments, particularly in oil and gas
infrastructure, and facilitate greater cooperation between the energy
companies of the two countries.   
  
14.    The leaders announced their commitment to fully realize the
U.S.-India 123 Civil Nuclear Agreement by moving forward with plans to
work together to build U.S.-designed nuclear reactors in India through
large scale localization and possible technology transfer. Both sides
welcomed the recent Budget announcement by Government of India to take
up amendments to the Atomic Energy Act and the Civil Liability for
Nuclear Damage Act (CLNDA) for nuclear reactors and further decided to
establish bilateral arrangements in accordance with CLNDA, that would
address the issue of civil liability and facilitate the collaboration of
Indian and U.S. industry in the production and deployment of nuclear
reactors. This path forward will unlock plans to build large
U.S.-designed reactors and enable collaboration to develop, deploy and
scale up nuclear power generation with advanced small modular
reactors.   
  
**Technology and Innovation**  
  
15.    The leaders announced the launch of the **U.S.-India TRUST**
(“Transforming the Relationship Utilizing Strategic Technology”)
initiative, which will catalyze government-to-government, academia and
private sector collaboration to promote application of critical and
emerging technologies in areas like defense, artificial intelligence,
semiconductors, quantum, biotechnology, energy and space, while
encouraging the use of verified technology vendors and ensuring
sensitive technologies are protected.   
  
16.    As a central pillar of the “TRUST” initiative, the leaders
committed to work with U.S. and Indian private industry to put forward a
**U.S.-India Roadmap on Accelerating AI Infrastructure** by the end of
the year, identifying constraints to financing, building, powering, and
connecting large-scale U.S.-origin AI infrastructure in India with
milestones and future actions.  The U.S. and India will work together to
enable industry partnerships and investments in next generation data
centers, cooperation on development and access to compute and processors
for AI, for innovations in AI models and building AI applications for
solving societal challenges while addressing the protections and
controls necessary to protect these technologies and reduce regulatory
barriers.  
  
17.    The leaders announced the launch of **INDUS Innovation,** a new
innovation bridge modeled after the successful INDUS-X platform, that
will advance U.S.-India industry and academic partnerships and foster
investments in space, energy, and other emerging technologies to
maintain U.S. and India leadership in innovation and to meet the needs
of the 21st century.  The leaders also reinforced their commitment to
the INDUS-X initiative, which facilities partnerships between U.S. and
Indian defense companies, investors and universities to produce critical
capability for our militaries and welcomed the next summit in 2025.    
  
18.    The leaders also committed, as part of the TRUST initiative, to
build trusted and resilient supply chains, including for semiconductors,
critical minerals, advanced materials and pharmaceuticals. As part of
this effort, the leaders plan to encourage public and private
investments to expand Indian manufacturing capacity, including in the
U.S., for active pharmaceutical ingredients for critical medicines.
These investments will create good jobs, diversify vital supply chains,
and reduce the risk of life-saving drug shortages in both the United
States and India.  
  
19.    Recognizing the strategic importance of critical minerals for
emerging technologies and advanced manufacturing, India and the United
States will accelerate collaboration in research and development and
promote investment across the entire critical mineral value chain, as
well as through the Mineral Security Partnership, of which both the
United States and India are members. Both countries have committed to
intensifying efforts to deepen cooperation in the exploration,
beneficiation, and processing as well as recycling technologies of
critical minerals. To this end, the leaders announced the launch of the
Strategic Mineral Recovery initiative, a new U.S.-India program to
recover and process critical minerals (including lithium, cobalt, and
rare earths) from heavy industries like aluminum, coal mining and oil
and gas.  
  
20.    The leaders hailed 2025 as a pioneering year for U.S.-India civil
space cooperation, with plans for a NASA-ISRO effort through AXIOM to
bring the first Indian astronaut to the International Space Station
(ISS), and early launch of the joint “NISAR” mission, the first of its
kind to systematically map changes to the Earth’s surface using dual
radars.  The leaders called for more collaboration in space exploration,
including on long duration human spaceflight missions, spaceflight
safety and sharing of expertise and professional exchanges in emerging
areas, including planetary protection. The leaders committed to further
commercial space collaboration through industry engagements in
conventional and emerging areas, such as connectivity, advanced
spaceflight, satellite and space launch systems, space sustainability,
space tourism and advanced space manufacturing.   
  
21.    The leaders underscored the value of deepening ties between the
U.S. and Indian scientific research communities, announcing **a new
partnership between the U.S. National Science Foundation and the Indian
Anusandhan National Research Foundation** in researching critical and
emerging technologies.  This partnership builds on ongoing collaboration
between the U.S. National Science Foundation and several Indian science
agencies to enable joint research in the areas of semiconductors,
connected vehicles, machine learning, next-generation
telecommunications, intelligent transportation systems, and future
biomanufacturing.   
  
22.    The leaders determined that their governments redouble efforts to
address export controls, enhance high technology commerce, and reduce
barriers to technology transfer between our two countries, while
addressing technology security.  The leaders also resolved to work
together to counter the common challenge of unfair practices in export
controls by third parties seeking to exploit overconcentration of
critical supply chains.    
  
**Multilateral Cooperation**  
  
23.    The leaders reaffirmed that a close partnership between the U.S.
and India is central to a free, open, peaceful and prosperous
Indo-Pacific region. As Quad partners, the leaders reiterated that this
partnership is underpinned by the recognition of ASEAN centrality;
adherence to international law and good governance; support for safety
and freedom of navigation, overflight and other lawful uses of the seas;
and unimpeded lawful commerce; and advocacy for peaceful resolution of
maritime disputes in accordance with international law.   
  
24.    Prime Minister Modi looks forward to hosting President Trump in
New Delhi for the Quad leaders’ Summit, ahead of which the leaders will
activate new Quad initiatives on shared airlift capacity to support
civilian response to natural disasters and maritime patrols to improve
interoperability.     
  
25.    The leaders resolved to increase cooperation, enhance diplomatic
consultations, and increase tangible collaboration with partners in the
Middle East. They highlighted the importance of investing in critical
infrastructure and economic corridors to advancing peace and security in
the region.  The leaders plan to convene partners from the India-Middle
East-Europe Corridor and the I2U2 Group within the next six months in
order to announce new initiatives in 2025.    
  
26.    The US appreciates India’s role as a developmental, humanitarian
assistance and net security provider in the Indian Ocean Region. In this
context, the leaders committed to deepen bilateral dialogue and
cooperation across the vast Indian Ocean region and launched the
**Indian Ocean Strategic Venture**, a new bilateral, whole-of-government
forum to advance coordinated investments in economic connectivity and
commerce. Supporting greater Indian Ocean connectivity, the leaders also
welcomed Meta’s announcement of a multi-billion, multi-year investment
in an undersea cable project that will begin work this year and
ultimately stretch over 50,000 km to connect five continents and
strengthen global digital highways in the Indian Ocean region and
beyond. India intends to invest in maintenance, repair and financing of
undersea cables in the Indian Ocean, using trusted vendors.   
  
27.    The leaders recognized the need to build new plurilateral anchor
partnerships in the Western Indian Ocean, Middle East, and Indo-Pacific
to grow relationships, commerce and cooperation across defense,
technology, energy and critical minerals.  The leaders expect to
announce new partnership initiatives across these sub-regions by fall of
2025.   
  
28.    The leaders also resolved to advance military cooperation in
multinational settings to advance global peace and security. The leaders
applauded India’s decision to take on a future leadership role in the
Combined Maritime Forces naval task force to help secure sea lanes in
the Arabian Sea.  
  
29.    The leaders reaffirmed that the global scourge of terrorism must
be fought, and terrorist safe havens eliminated from every corner of the
world.  They committed to strengthen cooperation against terrorist
threats from groups, including Al-Qa’ida, ISIS, Jaish-e-Mohammad, and
Lashkar-e-Tayyiba in order to prevent heinous acts like the attacks in
Mumbai on 26/11 and the Abbey Gate bombing in Afghanistan on August 26,
2021.  Recognizing a shared desire to bring to justice those who would
harm our citizens, the U.S. announced that the extradition to India of
Tahawwur Rana has been approved. The leaders further called on Pakistan
to expeditiously bring to justice the perpetrators of the 26/11 Mumbai,
and Pathankot attacks and ensure that its territory is not used to carry
out cross-border terrorist attacks.  The leaders also pledged to work
together to prevent proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and
their delivery systems and to deny access to such weapons by terrorists
and non-state actors.  
  
**People to People Cooperation**  
  
30.    President Trump and Prime Minister Modi noted the importance of
advancing the people-to-people ties between the two countries. In this
context, they noted that the more than 300,000 strong Indian student
community contributes over $8 billion annually to the U.S. economy and
helped create a number of direct and indirect jobs. They recognized that
the talent flow and movement of students, researchers and employees, has
mutually benefitted both countries. Recognizing the importance of
international academic collaborations in fostering innovation, improving
learning outcomes and development of a future-ready workforce, both
leaders resolved to strengthen collaborations between the higher
education institutions through efforts such as joint/dual degree and
twinning programs, establishing joint Centers of Excellence, and setting
up of offshore campuses of premier educational institutions of the U.S.
in India.  
  
31.    Both leaders emphasized that the evolution of the world into a
global workplace calls for putting in place innovative, mutually
advantageous and secure mobility frameworks. In this regard, the leaders
committed to streamlining avenues for legal mobility of students and
professionals, and facilitating short-term tourist and business travel,
while also aggressively addressing illegal immigration and human
trafficking by taking strong action against bad actors, criminal
facilitators, and illegal immigration networks to promote mutual
security for both countries.  
  
32.    The leaders also committed to strengthen law enforcement
cooperation to take decisive action against illegal immigration
networks, organized crime syndicates, including narco-terrorists human
and arms traffickers, as well as other elements who threaten public and
diplomatic safety and security, and the sovereignty and territorial
integrity of both nations.  
  
33.    President Trump and Prime Minister Modi pledged to sustain
high-level engagement between our governments, industries, and academic
institutions and realize their ambitious vision for an enduring
India-U.S. partnership that advances the aspirations of our people for a
bright and prosperous future, serves the global good, and contributes to
a free and open Indo-Pacific.
