---
date: '2025-02-21'
modified_time: 2025-02-24 13:13:32-05:00
published_time: 2025-02-21 13:12:00-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefings-statements/2025/02/white-house-office-of-management-and-budget-announces-incoming-senior-appointees/
tags: briefings-statements
title: White House Office of Management and Budget Announces Incoming Senior Appointees
---
 
**Washington, D.C.** — The Office of Management and Budget (OMB) today
announced the addition of several senior appointees who will play
critical roles in advancing the Administration’s priorities. They will
reinforce OMB’s mission to serve as the nerve center of federal policy,
management, and budget oversight as well as end the fraud, abuse, and
weaponization of the federal government and its resources against the
American people.

The following individuals have joined the Office of Management and
Budget:

**Stephen Billy – Senior Advisor**

Stephen Billy most recently served as Vice President of State Affairs
for Susan B. Anthony Pro-life America. During the first Trump
Administration, he served in the Office of Personnel Management (OPM),
the Department of Commerce, and the OMB, where he drove accountability
and oversight of the federal bureaucracy. Billy has also served as
Executive Director of the Charlotte Lozier Institute and as Chief of
Staff for former Congressman Pittenger.

**Mark Calabria – Associate Director for Treasury, Housing, Commerce**

Dr. Mark A. Calabria formerly served as Director of the Federal Housing
Finance Agency (FHFA) where he led the agency’s response to COVID and
laid the groundwork for a removal of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac from
government conservatorship. As Director, Calabria also revitalized FHFA
as a prudential regulator, establishing the agency’s new Research,
Accounting Policy, and Resolution Divisions.  Prior to leading FHFA in
the first Trump Administration, he served at the White House as Chief
Economist to the Vice President. In addition, Calabria previously worked
as a senior aide to the United States Senate Committee on Banking,
Housing and Urban Affairs and served as the Deputy Assistant Secretary
for Regulatory Affairs in the Office of Housing at the U.S. Department
of Housing and Urban Development, where he supervised HUD’s regulation
of the mortgage and real estate market. He was most recently a Senior
Advisor to the Cato Institute.

**Brian J. Cavanaugh – Associate Director for Homeland Security**

Brian Cavanaugh most recently served as Senior Vice President at
American Global Strategies (AGS). Prior to that, he served as Senior
Director for Resilience on the National Security Council (NSC) during
the first Trump administration, where he led efforts to strengthen U.S.
preparedness against strategic threats, including cybersecurity,
infrastructure vulnerabilities, and foreign adversary threats. Brian
also held key roles at the Department of Homeland Security (DHS),
including Executive Director for Strategic Planning and Integration,
where he oversaw department-wide crisis response initiatives, health
security operations, and technical hazard preparedness. He has published
extensively on addressing challenges posed by foreign adversaries,
including China’s economic influence and drone threats.

**Anne DeCesaro –  Associate Director for Education, Income Maintenance,
and Labor**

Anne DeCesaro previously served as the Education Policy Director for the
Senate Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions Committee. She has also
served as the Republican Policy Director for the House Select Committee
on Economic Disparity and Fairness in growth, the Chief of Staff for
Food, Nutrition, and Consumer Services at the Department of Agriculture,
and the Republican Staff Director for the Worker and Family Support
Subcommittee of the Committee on Ways and Means. Anne also worked on the
House Agriculture Committee, at the OMB, and at the Social Security
Administration. She received her Bachelor’s degree from Saint Mary’s
College and here master’s degree from The Johns Hopkins University.

**Don Dempsey – Associate Director for Health**

Don Dempsey most recently served as the Vice President of Policy and
Research at the Better Medicare Alliance.  Prior to that, that he was a
Managing Director at the Marwood Group, overseeing their Washington,
D.C. office.  He was previously the Vice President for Policy and
Regulatory Affairs at CVS health, a Government Affairs Counselor at K&L
Gates, a Senior Vice President with the Marwood Group, and worked for
Breakaway Policy Strategies.  Dempsey served as the Associate Director
for Human Resources Programs at OMB during the George W. Bush
Administration, where he had direct responsibility for Medicare and
Medicaid programs, the National Institutes of Health, the Food and Drug
Administration, Social Security, federal funding for the Education and
Labor Departments, and many other programs.  Prior to that, he was the
Legislative Director for Senator Richard Burr, Director of Health Policy
for the Senate Budget Committee and a Legislative Assistant for Senators
Jon Kyl and Phil Gramm. 

**Amaryllis Fox Kennedy – Associate Director for Intelligence and
International Affairs**

Amaryllis Fox Kennedy joined the CIA following 9/11, serving as an
Operations Officer in the Clandestine Service where she focused on
nuclear nonproliferation, Islamic terror networks, money laundering, and
illicit arms markets. She also served two years in the Directorate of
Intelligence as an East Asia analyst, writing on issues of
counterterrorism and military readiness for the President’s Daily Brief
and the Senior Executive Intelligence Brief. She was the recipient of
three CIA exceptional performance awards.  Afterwards, Kennedy founded a
Natural Language Processing platform in Silicon Valley and served as
Head of Product for Consumer Commerce at Twitter, now X. Both roles were
focused on the application of NLP and Large Language Models to derive
meaning from user-generated content in the early days of AI. Kennedy is
a NYT-bestselling author and has produced numerous documentaries on
subjects of global security. She was appointed to the President’s
Intelligence Advisory Board.

**Daniel Kowalski – Executive Associate Director**

Dan Kowalski most recently served as a Senior Fellow at the Center for
Renewing America. Prior, he was a Special Advisor to the Secretary of
Finance to Governor Glenn Youngkin of Virginia, where he advised on
budget and tax matters. In the first Trump Administration, he was
Counselor to the Secretary at the U.S. Treasury Department, where he
advised Secretary Steven Mnuchin regarding Treasury’s efforts to drive
the Trump Administration’s domestic policy agenda. Kowalski has also
worked on Capitol Hill as Deputy Staff Director of the Republican Senate
Budget Committee and as Director of Budget Review for the Republican
House Budget Committee.

**Stuart Levenbach – Associate Director for Natural Resources, Energy,
Science, and Water**

Prior to OMB, Dr. Stuart Levenbach was the Director for Government
Affairs and Public Policy for the Americas region at the energy
technology company, Baker Hughes. In the first Trump Administration, he
served as a Senior Advisor in both the National Economic Council and the
Council on Environmental Quality and also as the Chief of Staff for the
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. Stuart previously
worked at OMB for 10 years as both a Program Examiner in the Resource
Management Office Commerce Branch and a Senior Policy Analyst in the
Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs Natural Resources and
Environment Branch. He was a volunteer forester in the U.S. Peace Corps
and holds a Ph.D. in marine ecology from the University of California,
Santa Barbara.

**Michael Stumo – Associate Director for Economic Policy and the Made
in America Office**

Michael Stumo most recently served as the longtime CEO of the Coalition
for a Prosperous America, the leading national organization representing
exclusively domestic producers and workers across many industries and
sectors of the U.S. economy. He is a leading policy expert on trade,
tax, manufacturing, industrial policy, currency, and agricultural
issues, and has worked closely with a wide range of policymakers,
legislators, regulators, and advocacy organizations to advance strategic
trade, tax, and growth policies for the benefit of U.S. domestic
producers and workers. He previously served as General Counsel for the
Organization for Competitive Markets, focusing on agriculture and
antitrust issues. Prior to that, he was a lawyer and litigator at
Brignole, Bush and Lewis in Hartford, CT, and Domina Law in Omaha, NE.

**Katharine Sullivan – Associate Director for Justice and
Transportation**

Katharine Sullivan served in the previous Trump Administration as the
Principal Deputy Assistant Attorney General at the Department of Justice
Office of Justice Programs and as the Acting Director of the Office of
Violence Against Women.  She previously served for over 11 years as a
Colorado state trial court judge.  She earned her J.D. from George
Washington University School of Law and her B.A. from Syracuse
University.

**Thomas Williams – Associate Director for Defense**

Dr. Tom Williams most recently worked as a business development
executive at Cape, a secure mobile telecom provider. Prior to that, he
worked as a federal sales executive for Astra Space Operations, a
provider of launch services and spacecraft propulsion. In the first
Trump Administration, Tom performed the duties of Under Secretary and
Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for Policy in the Office of the
Secretary of Defense. He also served on the NSC as Deputy Assistant to
the President and Senior Director for European and Russian Affairs, as
well as Acting Senior Director for Defense Policy and Strategy. Prior to
his government service, he worked at the Center for Naval Analyses’
Strategic Initiatives Group, as a Visiting Assistant Professor of
Politics at Washington and Lee University, as a James Hart Fellow at
Johns Hopkins University, as a Research Assistant at the Center for
Strategic and International Studies, and at The Cohen Group.
