---
date: '2024-07-24'
modified_time: 2024-07-23 18:07:29-04:00
published_time: 2024-07-24 16:30:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/07/24/president-biden-announces-a-presidential-emergency-board-names-members/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Announces a Presidential Emergency Board, Names\_Members"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Joe Biden signed an Executive Order
creating a Presidential Emergency Board to help resolve an ongoing
dispute between the New Jersey Transit Rail and the Brotherhood of
Locomotive Engineers and Trainmen (BLET). The appointment of the Board
is required under the Railway Labor Act because a party to the dispute
has requested a Board.

The Presidential Emergency Board will provide a structure that allows
the two sides to attempt to resolve their disagreements. In the 60 days
following its establishment, the Presidential Emergency Board will
obtain final offers for settlement of the dispute from each side, and
then produce a report to the President that selects the offer that the
Board finds to be the most reasonable. The Board’s report is not
binding, but the party whose offer is not selected would be prohibited
by law from receiving certain benefits if a work stoppage subsequently
occurs.

President Biden also announced that he intends to appoint the following
members to Presidential Emergency Board No. 251:

-   Elizabeth C. Wesman, Chair, Presidential Emergency Board No. 251
-   Barbara C. Deinhardt, Member, Presidential Emergency Board No. 251
-   Lisa SalkovitzKohn, Member, Presidential Emergency Board No. 251

**Elizabeth C. Wesman, Chair, Presidential Emergency Board No. 251**

Elizabeth Wesman is a full-time labor arbitrator and a member of the
National Academy of Arbitrators (NAA). She is listed on several labor
arbitration panels, including the Federal Mediation and Conciliation
Service, the American Arbitration Association, the National Mediation
Board, the Oregon Employment Relations Board, and the Washington Public
Employment Relations Commission. Wesman is also an Emeritus Professor
from the Martin J. Whitman School of Management at Syracuse University,
where she taught Labor Relations, Arbitration, and Human Resource
Strategy courses for 20 years. Wesman is past President of the NAA
Research and Education Fund and past President of the National
Association of Railroad Referees. She holds a Ph.D. from the New York
State School of Industrial and Labor Relations at Cornell University.
Her academic research and published works have been primarily in the
areas of conflict resolution, employment discrimination, and arbitration
of Title VII disputes. President Obama appointed her to serve on three
Presidential Emergency Boards which studied commuter rail negotiations
at New Jersey Transit and the Southeastern Pennsylvania Transit
Authority.

**Barbara C. Deinhardt, Member, Presidential Emergency Board No. 251**

Barbara Deinhardt is a labor and employment arbitrator and mediator. In
2022, President Biden appointed her to serve on Presidential Emergency
Board 250 to resolve a dispute between railroads represented by the
National Railway Labor Conference and the Coordinated Bargaining
Coalition representing freight railroad unions. In 2014, President Obama
appointed her to Presidential Emergency Boards 247 and 248. She has
experience in federal and state government, serving as Chair of the New
York State Employment Relations Board, as well as Chair of the New York
State Workers’ Compensation Board.

**Lisa Salkovitz Kohn, Member, Presidential Emergency Board No. 251**

Lisa Salkovitz Kohn has been a full-time labor and employment arbitrator
and mediator for over 30 years. A member of the Board of Governors for
the National Academy of Arbitrators (NAA), she is a past President of
the NAA Research and Education Fund, and a past member of the boards of
the Chicago Chapters of the Labor and Employment Research Association
and the Association for Conflict Resolution and as a program co-chair
for the National Association of Railroad Referees. She is listed on the
arbitration panels of the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service,
the American Arbitration Association, the National Mediation Board, and
has served on the panels of the Illinois Labor Relations Board, the
Illinois State Board of Education, the Iowa Public Employment Relations
Board, and many other labor-management arbitration panels in the public
and private sectors. Kohn served for many years as a Hearing Officer and
Conciliator for the Chicago Commission on Human Relations and the Cook
County (Illinois) Commission on Human Rights. Prior to becoming an
arbitrator and mediator, Kohn practiced as a labor attorney for several
law firms and served as in-house labor attorney for a large
telecommunications company. A native of the District of Columbia, Kohn
is a graduate of Harvard University and holds a J.D. from the University
of California Berkeley School of Law.

\# \# \#
