---
date: '2024-07-10'
modified_time: 2024-07-10 09:25:45-04:00
published_time: 2024-07-10 10:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/07/10/fact-sheet-advancing-women-peace-and-security-at-the-nato-75th-anniversary-summit/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Advancing Women, Peace and Security at the NATO 75th Anniversary\_\
  Summit"
---
 
The status of women and girls and the stability and security of nations
are inextricably linked. When women have equal opportunities to
participate and lead, economies grow, education rates and health
outcomes improve, and political instability and violence decline.  
  
NATO Allies have recognized the importance of women to peace and
security.  The Transatlantic relationship is built on a foundation of
shared democratic values—including respect for democracy, individual
liberty, and the rule of law, as enshrined in the Washington Treaty.
Women’s meaningful participation and leadership in security, peace, and
decision-making processes is fundamental to the strength of democracies,
and therefore critical to NATO’s present and future effectiveness.  
  
Since the start of the Biden-Harris Administration, the President and
Vice President have taken historic steps to strengthen women’s
meaningful participation in national security, defense, and political
leadership, pursuant to our [National Strategy on Gender Equity and
Equality](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/10/National-Strategy-on-Gender-Equity-and-Equality.pdf),
and through implementation of the [2023 Women, Peace, and Security (WPS)
Strategy and National Action
Plan](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/11/U.S.-Strategy-and-National-Action-Plan-on-Women-Peace-and-Security.pdf),
which aligns with NATO’s new WPS policy reflecting critical shifts in
our global landscape—including geopolitical changes, a rise in
climate-related crises, and advancements in technology.  The
Administration’s investments in WPS also bolster the implementation of
the [U.S. Strategy to Prevent Conflict and Promote
Stability](https://www.state.gov/stability-strategy/), the [U.S.
Strategy to Anticipate, Prevent and Respond to
Atrocities](https://www.state.gov/atrocity-prevention/), and the [U.S
Strategy to Prevent and Respond to Gender-Based Violence
Globally](https://www.state.gov/reports/united-states-strategy-to-prevent-and-respond-to-gender-based-violence-globally-2022/).  
  
This week, as Allies and partners gather for the [NATO
75<sup>th</sup> Anniversary
Summit](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/07/10/fact-sheet-the-2024-nato-summit-in-washington/),
the Biden-Harris Administration is proud to announce new actions and
reaffirm our enduring commitment to advancing the Women, Peace, and
Security agenda as integral to NATO’s core tasks.  
  
**NATO Summit Deliverables on Women, Peace, and Security**  
  
Together with Allies, the United States is announcing the following
deliverables as key Summit outcomes that underscore NATO’s ironclad
support for Women, Peace, and Security (WPS):

-   *Revised NATO WPS Policy.* To further the WPS agenda across NATO’s
    core tasks and missions, Allies undertook a revision of NATO’s 2018
    policy to address and build on NATO’s long-standing commitment to
    WPS that will be formally endorsed at the Washington Summit.  The
    updated policy addresses new security threats, including
    technology-facilitated gender-based violence and the misuse of new
    and emerging technologies, climate security, and conflict-related
    sexual violence, and also notes Russia’s war of aggression against
    Ukraine and the threats it poses specifically to women on the
    frontlines of the conflict.   
     
-   *Equipping Ukrainian servicewomen*. At the Washington Summit, Allies
    will also announce historic contributions through the Comprehensive
    Assistance Package (CAP) to provide women’s body armor, boots, and
    uniforms to the Ukrainian armed services to further NATO’s
    non-lethal support to Ukraine and commitment to supporting women’s
    full and equal participation in defense and security. This will mark
    the first time Allies have directed resources through CAP to advance
    Women, Peace, and Security objectives.

**Biden-Harris Administration Commitments to Advancing Women, Peace and
Security**  
  
*Launch of Women LEAD, an $850 million+ partnership to close the gap in
women’s leadership globally.  *To strengthen democracy and reaffirm the
Biden-Harris Administration’s commitment to advancing women’s meaningful
participation in peace and security processes at the Washington Summit,
the United States government—in collaboration with many NATO Allies and
partners—launched Women Leading Effective and Accountable Democracy in
the digital age (Women LEAD), a [public-private
partnership](https://www.usaid.gov/sites/default/files/2024-07/FINAL%20USAID%20Women%20LEAD%20Fact%20Sheet%20508.pdf) that
convenes governments, philanthropy, civil society and multilateral
organizations to advance women’s political and civic participation and
leadership globally. This new initiative harnesses shared commitments
and priorities, including the U.S. Presidential Initiative for
Democratic Renewal, the Global Partnership for Action on Gender-Based
Online Harassment and Abuse, and the Network for Gender Inclusive
Democracy.  
  
The U.S. is committing $150 million towards [Women
LEAD](https://www.usaid.gov/democracy/women-leading-effective-and-accountable-democracy-digital-age-initiative) to
advance women’s political leadership, prevent and address gender-based
violence against women leaders online and offline, and support women’s
meaningful participation in the criminal justice sector, peacebuilding
and conflict resolution. Alongside the U.S. and 14 countries, more than
20 foundations, international organizations, and civil society partners
will join for a total of more than $850 million in commitments.
Together, partners are taking action to help close the gap in women’s
political leadership and tackle barriers to women in political and
public life. Partners joining Women LEAD include:

-   *Government and multilateral partners:* Australia; Canada; Finland;
    European Union; Iceland; Japan; Kenya; Republic of Korea; Romania;
    Netherlands; Norway; Spain; Sweden; Ukraine; the United Kingdom;
    Inter-American Commission of Women of the Organization of American
    States; OECD; and UNFPA  
     
-   *Philanthropic partners:* Daniel Sachs Foundation; Women’s Political
    Leadership Fund; Mozilla Foundation; Open Society Foundations;
    Skoll; the Trawalla Foundation; and Wallace Global Fund  
     
-   *Civil society partners:* Apolitical Foundation; Carnegie Endowment
    for International Peace; Fundación Multitudes; Georgetown Institute
    for Women, Peace, and Security; Humane Intelligence; International
    Foundation for Electoral Systems; International Republican
    Institute’s Women’s Democracy Network; IREX; National Democratic
    Institute; \#ShePersisted; Save the Children; and the Women
    Political Leaders Fund

In addition to launching Women LEAD, the Biden-Harris Administration is
highlighting new and ongoing actions to implement the 2023 WPS Strategy,
corresponding with the Strategy’s five lines of effort:

1.  **Advancing women’s meaningful participation in peace and security
    decision-making, leadership and institutions.**

-   *Promoting the civic and political engagement of women and girls*.
    Since announcing the Advancing Women’s and Girls’ Civic and
    Political Leadership Initiative at the first Summit for Democracy,
    USAID has allocated over $15 million in nine focus countries to
    build and sustain women’s participation in political and civic
    engagement. USAID intends to provide up to $10 million in additional
    funding this year.  
     
-   *Strengthening women’s meaningful participation in conflict
    prevention and resolution***.** Announced at the first Summit for
    Democracy in 2021, Supporting Her Empowerment: Women’s Inclusion for
    New Security (SHE WINS) builds the capacity of women-led civil
    society organizations in preventing, resolving, and recovering from
    conflict, violent extremism, and gender-based violence through the
    development of peacebuilding initiatives and through localization of
    National Action Plans on WPS. SHE WINS includes a Rapid Response
    Fund to enable flexible resourcing of women peacebuilders.  Current
    funding for SHE WINS is approximately $10 million, and, working with
    Congress, the State Department intends to provide an additional $4
    million by September 2024.  
     
-   *Bolstering women leaders in Sudan’s recovery.* Working with
    Congress, USAID intends to provide $2.72 million in FY23 WPS
    Incentive Funds to strengthen monitoring, documentation, and
    accountability processes and amplify existing Sudanese women’s
    initiatives, such as the Women Coordination Advocacy Agenda. 
    Activities include the development of specialized training for GBV
    and CRSV case documentation, increasing access to care and
    psychosocial support for survivors, and incorporating the needs of
    women and girls in relief and recovery distribution systems and
    services.

1.  **Promoting the protection of the human rights of women and girls,
    and preventing and responding to all forms of GBV, including in
    conflict and crisis.**

-   *Reducing sexual assault and sexual harassment in the
    military.* Under President Biden’s leadership, [rates of sexual
    assault and sexual
    harassment](https://www.defense.gov/News/Releases/Release/Article/3777526/secretary-of-defense-statement-on-the-fy23-annual-report-on-sexual-assault-in-t/) in
    the active duty force have gone down for the first time in nearly a
    decade. This progress follows unprecedented actions from the
    President and Secretary of Defense Austin, including more than
    doubling the Department’s annual investments in sexual assault and
    sexual harassment prevention and response, advancing and
    implementing historic military justice reform to establish
    independent Offices of Special Trial Counsel, and building an
    integrated violence prevention workforce.  
     
-   ***Promoting justice and accountability for sexual violence in
    conflict. ***Preventing and responding to conflict-related sexual
    violence (CRSV) is a top priority for President Biden and Vice
    President Harris.  In 2022, [President Biden signed a Memorandum on
    Promoting Accountability for Conflict-Related Sexual
    Violence](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/11/28/memorandum-on-promoting-accountability-for-conflict-related-sexual-violence/) (CRSV)
    and committed to fully exercising U.S. authorities—including
    sanctions, visa restrictions, and security assistance vetting—to
    promote accountability for perpetrators and enablers of CRSV.  Since
    October 7, President Biden, Vice President Harris, and
    Administration leaders
    have [consistently](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/12/07/readout-of-white-house-meeting-with-israels-chair-of-the-civil-commission-on-october-7-crimes-by-hamas-against-women-and-children/)[condemned](https://www.nytimes.com/live/2023/12/05/world/israel-hamas-war-gaza-news/biden-hamas-women-hostages?smid=url-share) Hamas’
    horrific sexual violence. To further implement this Presidential
    Memorandum, the Administration is also:  
    -   *Holding Perpetrators Accountable Through Sanctions*. Following
        the release of this new policy, the Biden-Harris Administration
        issued sanctions in June 2023, marking the first time United
        States imposed sanctions with a dedicated focus on CRSV.  In
        December 2023, the Administration announced additional sanctions
        against thirteen targets from four countries for their
        connection to acts of CRSV—the largest set of financial
        sanctions and visa restrictions the United States has issued
        against individuals connected to this human rights abuse. 
        Sanctions issued on the basis of CRSV since the release of the
        Presidential Memorandum include perpetrators from conflicts and
        crises in: *Central African Republic, Democratic Republic of the
        Congo*, *Haiti*, *Iraq*, *South Sudan*, Sudan, and Syria.  
         
    -   *Strengthening Sanctions Regimes*. In June 2024, the United
        States negotiated the adoption of UN Security Council Resolution
        2734, renewing measures under the sanctions regime on ISIS, Al
        Qaeda, and other terrorist organizations originally established
        under Resolution 1267.  For the first time, the resolution
        explicitly recognized that planning, directing, or committing of
        acts involving sexual- and gender-based violence are eligible
        for designation for sanctions under the regime’s criteria,
        recognizing that gender-based violence (GBV) is used as a tactic
        by terrorist groups, and leading to improved reporting,
        coherence, and coordination.   
         
    -   *Enhancing Documentation to Support Survivors*. In June 2024,
        the Vice
        President [launched](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/06/17/fact-sheet-the-biden-harris-administrations-actions-to-address-conflict-related-sexual-violence/) the **Dignity
        in Documentation Initiative**, which intends to provide support
        for survivor- and civil society-led efforts to investigate and
        document CRSV in line with the Murad Code, named for Nobel
        Laureate and survivor Nadia Murad.  This holistic program,
        supported under a $10 million investment from the U.S.
        Department of State Bureau of Democracy, Human Rights, and
        Labor, will support justice for survivors by promoting
        accountability for crimes punishable under international law.   
         
-   *Assisting immigrant and refugee survivors of GBV.* The Department
    of Homeland Security (DHS) provides access to services for survivors
    of GBV navigating the immigration process through the DHS Case
    Management Pilot Program (CMPP), allocating $40 million to this
    program between FY22 and FY24, with plans to invest an additional
    $15 million in FY 2025, pending available funds.  CMPP supports a
    safe, orderly, and humane immigration process by ensuring that
    eligible noncitizens, including those enrolled in ICE’s Alternatives
    to Detention (ATD) programs, have access to case management and
    critical services such as mental health services, human and sex
    trafficking screening, legal orientation programs, cultural
    orientation programs, and reintegration services for individuals
    returning to their countries of citizenship.   
     
-   *Mobilizing resources to address technology-facilitated gender-based
    violence against women leaders. *In January 2024, the State
    Department announced plans to support a new Global
    Technology-Facilitated Gender-Based Violence (TFGBV) Rapid Response
    Fund that will invest $2 million to provide rapid/flexible response
    support to women politicians, political candidates, and civil
    society leaders who have experienced extreme forms and/or threats of
    TFGBV. Furthermore, this mechanism will aim to create safe spaces to
    foster connection and learning among survivors.    
     
-   *Advancing women’s protection and meaningful participation in
    Haiti.* The U.S. has integrated WPS throughout preparations for the
    Multinational Security Support (MSS) mission in Haiti, by
    encouraging women’s representation at all levels of the MSS mission,
    and ensuring that pre-deployment training include a focus on women’s
    protection and preventing and addressing GBV,. To advance these
    goals, the U.S. has supported the Government of Kenya leading the
    MSS mission to develop a first-ever oversight and accountability
    policy framework to ensure compliance with international human
    rights standards, establish a Gender Advisory position, and
    incorporate an action plan on women’s participation and
    protection.  
     
-   *Strengthening access to justice for GBV survivors in Mexico***.** 
    Working with Congress, USAID plans to dedicate $1.5 million in
    FY2023 funds to improve access to justice and accountability for
    survivors of GBV in Mexico by enhancing the capacity of state
    institutions to holistically address crimes, support victims,
    deliver quality services, and support civil society in its effort to
    improve services. The funds will work with state courts to expand
    mixed civil-criminal jurisdiction courts for domestic violence, and
    support Women Justice Centers and State Commissions for Victim
    Assistance to improve management practices to reduce
    re-victimization, expand victim service networks, and introduce
    restorative justice practices.  
     
-   *Empowering Sri Lankan women leaders to shift norms to address
    CRSV. *In Sri Lanka, USAID intends to provide $1.5 million in FY2023
    funds to facilitate women’s advocacy on CRSV and peacebuilding and
    develop programs for women leaders to conduct dialogue and mobilize
    collective action.  This program will also provide grants to
    women-led organizations to engage men and boys and mitigate cultural
    barriers that inhibit women’s participation and fuel CRSV.  
     
-   *Supporting GBV survivors in Ukraine*. To support survivors of CRSV
    and other forms of GBV in Ukraine, the U.S. Department of State is
    supporting a $4 million project offering survivors and local GBV
    service providers critical services to help individuals and
    communities recover and thrive, including psycho-social support and
    survivor-centered care.  The Department of State also supports
    Ukraine’s effort to hold accountable those responsible for
    atrocities, including CRSV, through the U.S.-UK-EU Atrocity Crimes
    Advisory Group, which provides coordinated strategic advice,
    capacity building, and operational assistance to Ukraine’s Office of
    the Prosecutor General.  USAID is also supporting the World Health
    Organization, the International Organization for Migration, the
    United Nations Children’s Fund, the United Nations Population Fund,
    and eleven NGO partners to respond to CRSV and other forms of GBV
    across Ukraine.

1.  **Prioritizing women and girls in relief, response and recovery.**

-   *Supporting women-led organizations in humanitarian response
    efforts***.** The U.S. is proud to be one of the largest donors to
    the UN Women Peace and Humanitarian Fund (WPHF). In 2023, USAID
    contributed $10 million to WPHF to support women-led organizations
    on the frontlines of humanitarian and protection response efforts in
    Ukraine, Haiti, Ethiopia, and South Sudan. USAID is thrilled to
    continue expanding its contributions to the WPHF in 2024, including
    through new support in Afghanistan, where USAID recently provided $5
    million to fund local women-led organizations.  
     
-   *Addressing GBV in emergencies and natural disasters*. DHS is
    building the capacity of the Federal Emergency Management
    Administration (FEMA) to assist survivors of GBV before, during, and
    after disasters through training specific to disaster responders and
    emergency managers.  The training will provide emergency responders
    with tools and procedures to minimize additional trauma to survivors
    of GBV.  These efforts will help to provide survivor-centered
    support to disaster survivors, including survivors of GBV, and
    prioritize the identification and protection of survivors while
    protecting their privacy.  
     
-   *Supporting survivors of GBV violence in emergencies*. In FY23,
    USAID’s Bureau for Humanitarian Assistance (BHA) allocated over $163
    million to support survivors of GBV in emergencies, serving over 5
    million people in more than 40 countries and at the global level.
    These interventions constituted stand-alone GBV response and
    prevention initiatives, including psychosocial support, case
    management, and community-based prevention measures, such as safe
    spaces for women and girls.

1.  **Integrating WPS principles across U.S. policies and programs.**

-   *Training for USAID personnel on WPS principles***. **In order to
    strengthen implementation of WPS across the Agency, USAID’s Women
    Peace and Security 101 training has been updated and piloted in
    accordance with the 2023 U.S. Strategy and National Action Plan on
    WPS to include an in-depth overview of the WPS Act of 2017 and the
    new Strategy’s lines of effort. It provides an opportunity for USAID
    staff to work through exercises to practice how to integrate WPS
    objectives and lines of effort into their daily work, as well as
    hands-on experience in considering the opportunities and challenges
    of implementing WPS objectives – illustrating why gender equality
    and women’s empowerment are crucial in conflict and crises
    contexts.  
     
-   *Training for State Department personnel on WPS*.  In 2023, the
    State Department revised and extended the Promoting Gender Equality
    to Advance Foreign Policy, expanding the scope and length of content
    covered in line with the WPS Act of 2017, enhancing training on
    international humanitarian law, protection against sexual
    exploitation and abuse, trafficking in persons, and the meaningful
    participation of women in political and security decision-making
    processes.  The State Department also updated its gender analysis
    tools and launched a standalone training for personnel.  Since the
    launch of these new courses, nearly 600 personnel have accessed
    these trainings.  
     
-   *Strengthening federal law enforcement’s capacity to address
    gender-based violence***.** DHS, through the Federal Law Enforcement
    Training Center, delivers Human Trafficking Awareness Training
    (HTAT) and Sexual Assault Investigator Training Program (SAITP) to
    federal, state, local, tribal, and territorial law enforcement
    officers.  HTAT helps to equip frontline law enforcement and those
    who support law enforcement with the knowledge they need to
    recognize and properly respond to potential human trafficking
    situations.  SAITP prepares agents and investigators to conduct
    compassionate and effective survivor-centered investigations into
    adult sexual assaults through an extensive series of training
    exercises presenting trainees with relevant and realistic
    investigative scenarios that include case sufficiency reviews and
    over 20 distinct role player scenarios, immersing the students in
    multiple mock sexual assault investigations.   
     
-   *Training military and civilian personnel on WPS at the Department
    of Defense***. **The Department of Defense (DoD) has taken
    significant steps to further institutionalize WPS across the
    Department and within the military services by establishing a Mobile
    Training Team to train and certify its growing Gender Advisory
    Workforce.  Since it was first launched in FY2023, the Mobile
    Training Team has delivered joint training to certify close to 1,000
    military and civilian personnel to better understand the gendered
    dimensions of conflict and crisis and enhance their capacity to
    integrate a gender analysis within military operations, activities,
    and investments. This improves efforts to protect women and girls
    during conflict and better respond to the needs of an entire
    affected population during crisis.

1.  **Promoting partnerships to build capacity and elevate the WPS
    agenda throughout our foreign policy and security cooperation and
    assistance. **

-   *Closing the gender gap in cybersecurity*. DHS, through the
    Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA), will work
    to close the gender gap in cyberspace professions by leveraging
    partnerships with organizations, such as Girls Who Code, Girl Scouts
    of the USA, and Women in Cybersecurity in 2024.  In particular, DHS
    will work with relevant partners to identify, host, and support
    engagement opportunities that promote women and girls in
    Cybersecurity fields.  CISA will partner with organizations to
    coordinate events and identify opportunities to engage women and
    girls in cybersecurity.  
     
-   *Embedding WPS in defense engagements***.** DoD continues to
    integrate WPS in regional defense dialogues. In April 2024, DoD
    convened representatives from 24 defense and security ministries
    across the Western Hemisphere for the Conference of Defense
    Ministers of the Americas (CDMA) Ad-Hoc Working Group on WPS ahead
    of the XVI CDMA that will be hosted by Argentina in October.
    Delegations exchanged knowledge on developing and implementing WPS
    National Action Plans, expanding the meaningful participation of
    women in the armed forces and defense sector, and implementing WPS
    in the mission areas of humanitarian assistance and disaster
    response, maritime operations, and peacekeeping operations.  
     
-   *Promoting WPS partnerships through security cooperation***.** DoD
    promotes partnerships between state National Guards and partner
    nations on WPS. For example, in May 2024, U.S. Indo-Pacific Command
    partnered with the Papua New Guinea Defense Force (PNGDF) to conduct
    a second comprehensive Gender Focal Point training with support from
    the Wisconsin Air National Guard and Marine Rotational Force-Darwin.
    The training was developed to facilitate gender focal point capacity
    development and equip PNGDF personnel with the tools necessary to
    integrate gender perspectives into their operational strategies,
    including a focus on reducing gender-based violence.  
     
-   *Improving data to anticipate, prevent and respond to crises.* The
    U.S. is a founding member and steering committee participant in
    CRAF’d, a UN multi-partner trust fund which supports critical data
    needs to anticipate, prevent, and respond to crises. In June 2024,
    together with our partners in the European Union, the United
    Kingdom, Germany, the Netherlands, and the United Nations, the U.S.
    launched a $3 million [call for
    proposals](https://crafd.io/gender-data) to address the current
    paucity of gender-specific data in crisis and conflict settings,
    which leaves crisis responders ill-equipped to analyze and address
    the unique impacts on women, girls, and other vulnerable groups.  
     
-   *Advancing WPS in West Africa*. USAID has partnered with the
    Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) to support its
    Gender Directorate in Senegal to further expand the role of women in
    all sectors and to create more stability in peacebuilding processes.
    USAID’s Regional Mission in West Africa is collaborating with
    several ECOWAS directorates to advance WPS and conflict early
    warning and early response efforts. At the bilateral level, USAID is
    supporting local civil society organizations in Togo, Benin, Côte
    d’Ivoire, Guinea, Niger, and Burkina Faso to elevate the role of
    women in peacebuilding by integrating them into existing local
    conflict prevention and resolution mechanisms, supporting their
    initiatives to maintain social cohesion, and promoting economic
    empowerment and leadership of vulnerable women and girls in their
    communities.

**\###**
