---
date: '2024-07-19'
modified_time: 2024-07-19 12:39:42-04:00
published_time: 2024-07-19 14:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/07/19/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-releases-new-strategy-to-tackle-plastic-pollution-takes-action-to-reduce-single-use-plastics-in-federal-operations/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Releases New Strategy to Tackle\
  \ Plastic Pollution, Takes Action to Reduce Single-Use Plastics in Federal\_Operations"
---
 
Communities across the United States and around the world are facing a
plastic pollution crisis. Plastic production and waste have doubled over
the past two decades, littering our ocean, poisoning the air of
communities near production facilities, and threatening public health.
The Biden-Harris Administration recognizes that pollution can occur at
every stage of the plastic lifecycle, disproportionately impacting
communities with environmental justice concerns, contributing to loss of
biodiversity, and exacerbating the impacts of climate change.

President Biden is committed to taking ambitious actions throughout the
lifecycle of plastic to end plastic pollution and is working with the
global community to do the same. Today the Biden-Harris Administration
is releasing the first comprehensive, government-wide strategy to target
plastic pollution at production, processing, use, and disposal.
[*Mobilizing Federal Action on Plastic Pollution: Progress, Principles,
and
Priorities*](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/07/Mobilizing-Federal-Action-on-Plastic-Pollution-Progress-Principles-and-Priorities-July-2024.pdf)
outlines existing and new federal actions to reduce the impact of
plastic pollution throughout the plastic lifecycle and calls for
sustained and coordinated work with state, local, Tribal, and
Territorial governments, local communities, the private sector, and
other stakeholders to address the scale and breadth of the plastic
pollution challenge.

Additionally, the Biden-Harris Administration is announcing a new goal
to phase out federal procurement of single-use plastics from food
service operations, events, and packaging by 2027, and from all federal
operations by 2035. This commitment builds on President Biden’s
[*Executive Order* on *Catalyzing Clean Energy Industries and Jobs
through Federal
Sustainability*](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/12/08/executive-order-on-catalyzing-clean-energy-industries-and-jobs-through-federal-sustainability/)
and the President’s [Federal Sustainability
Plan](https://www.sustainability.gov/federalsustainabilityplan/), which
directs the federal government to achieve net-zero procurement by 2050,
including by phasing out procurement of single-use plastic products.
Meeting the new goal by selecting reusable, compostable, and highly
recyclable products in lieu of single-use plastics in food service will
further agencies’ obligations under the Executive Order.

Today’s actions further leverage the purchasing power of the federal
government to reduce emissions, protect public health, and spur markets
for new sustainable products. They also enhance domestic initiatives
that reinforce United States leadership in ongoing international efforts
to develop a strong agreement to tackle the plastic pollution crisis
across the globe.

**<u>Mobilizing Federal Action on Plastic Pollution: Progress,
Principles, and Priorities</u>**

In *Mobilizing Federal Action on Plastic Pollution: Progress,
Principles, and Priorities*, the federal government is — for the first
time — formally acknowledging the severity of the plastic pollution
crisis and the scale of the response that will be required to
effectively confront it. Developed by the Biden-Harris Administration’s
Interagency Policy Committee on Plastic Pollution and a Circular
Economy, the report outlines key principles for reducing plastic
pollution, focus areas of federal agencies, and opportunities for
further action:

**Assessing and Reducing Pollution from Plastic Production:** Over 90%
of plastic is derived from fossil fuels.Under President Biden’s
leadership, federal agencies are taking steps to reduce pollution from
the extraction of fossil fuels and production of plastic. This includes
chemicals of concern and a range of hazardous air pollutants and
volatile organic compounds, some of which are known carcinogens. Pairing
these measures with improved data collection is necessary to understand
the full extent of the environmental and human health risks of plastic
production. This work aligns with EPA’s ongoing efforts towards meeting
the goals of the Biden Cancer Moonshot.

**Innovating Materials and Product Design:** Agencies are advancing work
to explore alternative materials and processing methods.Innovation in
materials and services can help ensure that products are compatible with
waste management systems and have minimal impacts on human health and
the environment. Actions include participating in the development of
standards to promote recyclability and reuse, innovation in materials
management, and additional research and development of materials that
will create a more circular economy.

**Decreasing Plastic Waste Generation:** A key step to decreasing the
quantity of plastic waste generated is limiting the initial use of
materials that are unnecessary, difficult to manage, or likely to end up
as pollution in the environment. Federal agencies are leading by example
to reduce single-use plastic within their own operations by targeting
specific items or pollution pathways, such as introducing more
environmentally friendly systems like water refill stations as a
substitute for single-use plastic bottles.

**Improving Environmentally Sound Waste Management:** President Biden’s
Investing in America agenda is helping improve environmentally sound
waste management, particularly in communities that are already
overburdened by pollution. To ensure plastic waste is properly handled,
additional actions are needed to improve environmentally-sound and
worker-safe waste management practices and the associated infrastructure
needs. These include efforts to optimize the collection of plastic,
enhance plastic recycling, and other measures to prevent plastic waste
from entering the environment.

**Informing and Conducting Capture and Removal of Plastic Pollution:**
Several federal agencies are leading efforts to clean up existing
plastic pollution and prevent additional plastic pollution from entering
the environment, including the ocean.Additional action is needed to
improve the capture of plastic, both before it enters the waste
management system, and to address and prevent its escape during the
waste management process.

**<u>Biden-Harris Administration Leadership to Tackle Plastic
Pollution</u>**

Today’s announcements showcase efforts underway across the Biden-Harris
Administration to address plastic pollution across its lifecycle.
Examples of agency leadership include:

**Addressing Pollution from Chemical Manufacturing for Plastic
Production and Advancing Environmental Justice:** Under President
Biden’s leadership, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) is
providing critical health protections to hundreds of thousands of people
living near facilities that produce chemicals used in the manufacture of
plastics and other products, including [finalizing
rules](https://www.epa.gov/hazardous-air-pollutants-ethylene-oxide/final-rule-strengthen-standards-synthetic-organic-chemical)
to reduce emissions of toxic air pollutants and harmful pollution that
contributes to smog, expanding the [Toxics Release Inventory
Program](https://www.epa.gov/toxics-release-inventory-tri-program) to
improve the public’s understanding of releases associated with plastics
production, and starting the process of [prioritizing five
chemicals](https://www.epa.gov/newsreleases/epa-begins-process-prioritize-five-chemicals-risk-evaluation-under-toxic-substances)
used in plastic production, including vinyl chloride, for risk
evaluations under the Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA). EPA is also
currently
[evaluating](https://www.epa.gov/assessing-and-managing-chemicals-under-tsca/ongoing-and-completed-chemical-risk-evaluations-under)
several flame retardants and phthalate chemicals used in plastics under
TSCA.

**Reducing Single-Use Plastic on Public Lands and in Department of the
Interior Facilities:** Secretary of the Interior Deb Haaland issued
[Secretary’s Order
3407](https://www.doi.gov/pressreleases/secretary-haaland-issues-order-phase-out-single-use-plastics-protect-public-lands-0)
to reduce the procurement, sale, and distribution of single-use plastic
products and packaging Department-wide, with a goal of phasing out
single-use plastic products on Interior Department-managed lands by
2032. To support this effort, the Department is working to provide
additional water bottle filling stations on public lands, working with
concessionaires to reduce the sale of single-use plastics on
Department-managed lands, and cleaning up plastic marine debris.

**Investing in Infrastructure to Improve Reuse, Recycling and
Composting:** EPA is investing $275 million in [Solid Waste
Infrastructure for Recycling
grants](https://www.epa.gov/infrastructure/solid-waste-infrastructure-recycling-grant-program)
as part of President Biden’s Investing in America agenda. EPA made 140
grant selections for projects ranging from recycling, composting, and
reuse infrastructure improvements to technical support for local waste
management staff. This grant program marks the first time that funding
of this scale has been available specifically for the purpose of
improving solid waste infrastructure.

**Cleaning Up Existing Plastic Pollution in the Environment:** Under
President Biden, the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration
(NOAA) [provided nearly $70
million](https://marinedebris.noaa.gov/noaa-marine-debris-program-awards-funding-new-projects-bipartisan-infrastructure-law)
in federal funding for transformational, multi-year projects removing
large marine debris and using proven interception technologies to
capture marine debris throughout the coastal United States, Great Lakes,
territories, and Freely Associated States. NOAA also [announced $27
million](https://seagrant.noaa.gov/noaa-sea-grant-announces-27m-to-further-community-engaged-marine-debris-removal-and-prevention/)
for its first 29 Sea Grant projects that support the creation of
coalitions and innovative research that will address the prevention and
removal of marine debris over time.

\###
