---
date: '2024-07-10'
published_time: 2024-07-10 12:54:04-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/07/10/the-white-house-blueprint-for-addressing-the-maternal-health-crisis-two-years-of-progress/
tags: statements-releases
title: "The White\_House Blueprint for Addressing the Maternal Health Crisis: Two\
  \ Years of\_Progress"
---
 
For far too many American mothers, complications related to pregnancy,
childbirth, and postpartum can lead to devastating health
outcomes—including hundreds of deaths each year. Unfortunately, our
nation has one of the highest maternal mortality rates of any wealthy
country in the world. This maternal health crisis is particularly
devastating for Black women, Native women, and women in rural
communities who all experience maternal mortality and morbidity at
significantly higher rates than their white and urban counterparts. That
is why President Biden and Vice President Harris have worked to address
this crisis with the urgency it demands.  

In June 2022, Vice President Harris announced the Biden-Harris
Administration’s[ Blueprint for Addressing the Maternal Health
Crisis](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/06/Maternal-Health-Blueprint.pdf),
a whole-of-government effort to combat maternal mortality and morbidity.
Its focus has been on reducing disparities in maternal health outcomes
and improving the overall experience of pregnancy, birth, and postpartum
for all women in the United States. Since the Blueprint was released,
the Biden-Harris Administration has made significant strides in
improving maternal health for women across the country. 

Today, Vice President Harris announced some of the Blueprint’s key
accomplishments while speaking to more than 20,000 women in Dallas, TX
at the 71<sup>st</sup> National Boulé for the Alpha Kappa Alpha
Sorority, Inc.—the world’s oldest college-based sorority founded by
African-American women. As part of the Blueprint, the Biden-Harris
Administration has:

-   **Created the first-ever baseline federal health and safety
    requirements for maternal emergency and obstetric services in
    hospitals. **Vice President Harris announced the [first-ever
    baseline federal health and safety
    requirements](https://www.cms.gov/newsroom/press-releases/biden-harris-administration-proposes-policies-reduce-maternal-mortality-advance-health-equity-and) that
    hospitals would have to meet for obstetrical services. These new
    standards focus on ensuring emergency departments have sufficient
    protocols and supplies (e.g., “crash carts”) for obstetrical
    emergencies, that hospitals have procedures in place for
    transferring maternity patients to other facilities if they do not
    have the capabilities to provide sufficient care, and when a
    maternal death happens, that a hospital understands why and works to
    improve care so it does not happen again. These new standards
    include annual staff training on evidence-based maternal health
    practices, among other topics.  
     
-   **Extended postpartum Medicaid coverage from 2 to 12 months,
    providing lifesaving coverage to hundreds of thousands of new moms,
    and encouraged states to cover doula services. **Historically,
    states have only been required to offer mothers Medicaid coverage
    for 2 months postpartum. The American Rescue Plan allowed states to
    provide women coverage for a full year after having a baby—when
    postpartum mortality remains a risk—and the FY 2023 Consolidated
    Appropriations Act made this option permanent. In December 2021,
    Vice President Harris called on states to extend their postpartum
    coverage to a full year. To date, the Biden-Harris Administration
    has approved postpartum extensions in [46 states plus D.C. and the
    U.S. Virgin
    I](https://www.medicaid.gov/medicaid/quality-of-care/downloads/map-states-that-have-extended-postpartum-coverage.png)slands.  
     
-   **Created a new “Birthing Friendly” hospital** **designation so that
    women can more easily find high-quality maternity care. ** The
    Blueprint called for establishing a new [“Birthing Friendly”
    designation for
    hospitals](https://data.cms.gov/provider-data/birthing-friendly-hospitals-and-health-systems) with
    a demonstrated commitment to improving maternity care quality.  Now,
    over 2,000 facilities are considered “Birthing Friendly” and women
    can easily search for the “Birthing Friendly” logo on the CMS Care
    Compare website and in many private health plan directories to see
    which hospitals and plans participate.  
     
-   **Launched the National Maternal Mental Health Hotline, which has
    connected nearly 38,000 individuals to free, confidential, 24/7
    support.  **Behavioral health issues, such as maternal depression,
    are the most common complication of pregnancy and childbirth. New
    moms and their families can receive immediate support, resources,
    and referrals through the [National Maternal Mental Health
    Hotline](https://mchb.hrsa.gov/programs-impact/national-maternal-mental-health-hotline) (1-833-TLC-MAMA/1-833-852-6262).
     Professional counselors offer free, 24/7, confidential support by
    phone or text, in English and Spanish. Interpreter services are
    available in 60 languages. In its first two years, the Hotline has
    helped more than 37,700 individuals.  
     
-   **Continued to close the Medicaid coverage gap.  **Since the start
    of the Biden-Harris Administration, four states have expanded
    Medicaid coverage, with an additional 1.1 million Americans gaining
    Medicaid coverage.  To date, 40 states, Washington, D.C., and the
    U.S. Virgin Islands have all expanded Medicaid.  
     
-   **Launched the Transforming Maternal Health Model to improve
    maternal health care for people enrolled in Medicaid and Children’s
    Health Insurance Program.
     **The [model](https://www.cms.gov/priorities/innovation/innovation-models/transforming-maternal-health-tmah-model) will
    support participating state Medicaid agencies in the development of
    a whole-person approach to pregnancy, childbirth, and postpartum
    care that addresses the physical, mental health, and social needs
    experienced during pregnancy. Up to 15 states will be selected in
    the fall, with awards of up to $17 million per state.  
     
-   **Distributed 3,000 newborn supply kits and announced the delivery
    of 10,000 more in 2024**. In 2023, Vice President Harris launched
    the [Newborn Supply Kit Pilot
    Project](https://www.hhs.gov/healthcare/maternal-health/newborn-supply-kit/about/index.html),
    distributing kits with essential supplies (such as diapers and
    information on federal resources like the Maternal Mental Health
    Hotline) to families in Arkansas, Louisiana, and New Mexico. An
    additional 10,000 kits will be distributed across these and seven
    other states (AL, CA, GA, MS, NY, TN, TX) in 2024.  
     
-   **Trained maternity care providers on maternal mental health and
    substance use disorders. **The Biden-Harris Administration has
    invested in training nearly 2,000 providers on how to [screen,
    assess, treat, and
    refer](https://mchb.hrsa.gov/programs-impact/screening-treatment-maternal-mental-health-substance-use-disorders-mmhsud) for
    maternal mental health and substance use disorders so that pregnant
    and postpartum women can get the care they need when they need it.  
     
-   **Invested in growing and diversifying the perinatal workforce,
    including non-traditional providers like doulas and lactation
    counselors. **The Biden-Harris Administration has increased the
    number of obstetrician-gynecologists (OB/GYNs), nurses, midwives,
    doulas, and community health workers, especially in places without
    them, through grants, scholarships, and loan repayment support. For
    example, a $27.5 million program provided specialized maternity care
    training to over 2,200 OB/GYNs, nurses, and other providers; and a
    $10 million program provided 95 loan repayment and scholarship
    awards to nurses with expertise in maternity care. In
    addition, [doulas, lactation consultants, and lactation counselors
    are now
    covered](https://tricare.mil/Plans/SpecialPrograms/CBSD#:~:text=TRICARE%20will%20cover%20up%20to,get%20one%20visit%20during%20birth.) under
    a demonstration project for certain members of the military, retired
    members, and their family members who receive care under TRICARE.  
     
-   **Expanded the Department of Veterans Affairs’ maternity care
    coordination program to support pregnant and postpartum Veterans
    through 12 months postpartum. **In 2023, the VA extended
    its [maternity care coordination
    program](https://news.va.gov/press-room/va-expands-maternity-care-coordination-for-veterans/) from
    2 months postpartum to 12 to ensure that women have access to the
    care they need including primary care, mental health care, treatment
    for substance use disorder, intimate partner violence assistance,
    housing assistance, and resources to address food insecurity. The
    program impacts 8,000 Veteran families per year, and that number is
    expected to grow.  
     
-   **Established new maternity care target areas to address workforce
    shortages through loan repayment and scholarship programs.** The
    Biden-Harris Administration established a specific [new
    designation](https://bhw.hrsa.gov/workforce-shortage-areas/shortage-designation#mcta) for
    areas with shortages of maternity health care professionals and will
    award $8 million in loan repayment assistance and scholarships to
    those committed to providing OB/GYN care in these high need areas.  
     
-   **Launched the HHS Secretary’s Postpartum Maternal Health
    Collaborative in six states to improve health
    outcomes. **The [Collaborative](https://www.hhs.gov/about/news/2024/02/14/hhs-launches-postpartum-maternal-health-collaborative.html) works
    to synergize efforts at the local, state, tribal, and federal levels
    to improve postpartum outcomes. Iowa, Massachusetts, Maryland,
    Michigan, Minnesota, and New Mexico are participating and focused on
    addressing behavioral health and substance use disorders or
    hypertension and other cardiac issues in postpartum women.  
     
-   **Made resources available for all states to better understand and
    prevent pregnancy-related deaths.** The Biden-Harris Administration
    expanded the resources available for [Maternal Mortality Review
    Committees](https://www.cdc.gov/maternal-mortality/php/mmrc/index.html) (MMRCs)
    so that all states and territories have access, up from the 39 that
    previously had access. MMRCs are state-level groups that review
    deaths that occur during or within 1 year of a pregnancy and make
    recommendations on how to prevent future deaths.  
     
-   **Expanded the reach of the “Hear Her” campaign, which raises
    awareness about urgent maternal warning signs, to critical new
    populations.** The Biden-Harris Administration designed [materials
    with and for American Indian and Alaska Native
    women](https://www.cdc.gov/hearher/aian/index.html) so that those
    who are pregnant or postpartum, their providers, and their loved
    ones can spot warning signs of postpartum complications—like chronic
    headache, dizziness, and trouble breathing—and receive medical
    care.  
     
-   **Hosted events around the country that connect people with maternal
    health resources.** In 2023, the Department of Health and Human
    Services launched the M.O.M.S. Tour (Maternal Outcomes Matter
    Showers) in 11 cities, serving over 5,000 prenatal and postpartum
    women and 300 men and children; and connecting over 1,700 people to
    mental health services, 500 to health care coverage, and 800 to
    midwifery and doula services. In addition, more than 100 Black women
    were certified as doulas. An additional 25 stops are anticipated in
    2024.  
     
-   **Invested tens of millions to bolster research initiatives on
    maternal health.** For example, the Biden-Harris Administration
    launched a $3 million [challenge competition for community-based
    organizations](https://www.nichd.nih.gov/newsroom/news/062223-community-challenge-IMPROVE) to
    conduct maternal health research and final prizes will be awarded
    this summer. An [$8 million
    challenge](https://www.nichd.nih.gov/newsroom/news/040323-RadxTech-Deep-Dive) was
    also launched to [accelerate development of
    technology](https://www.nichd.nih.gov/newsroom/news/091522-RADxTech) that
    can improve access to postpartum health care, with final prizes
    slated for this winter.  In addition, [12 Maternal Health Research
    Centers of
    Excellence](https://www.nih.gov/news-events/news-releases/nih-establishes-maternal-health-research-centers-excellence) were
    established with approximately $28 million in first-year funding to
    develop innovative approaches, in collaboration with community
    organizations, to improving maternal health. The Biden-Harris
    Administration also launched a new [Maternal Health Research
    Collaborative for Minority Serving
    Institutions](https://mchb.hrsa.gov/data-research/research-investments/maternal-health-research-colloborative-minority-serving-institutions) that
    provides funding for research to 16 institutions of higher education
    that serve a large percentage of underrepresented or disadvantaged
    students across the country. Lastly, three community implementation
    projects were also funded with $3.6 million to pilot approaches to
    reducing maternal health disparities.  
     
-   **Worked to protect pregnant workers and nursing women while on the
    job. **In 2022, President Biden signed into law the Pregnant Workers
    Fairness Act (PWFA) and the Providing Urgent Maternal Protections
    (PUMP) for Nursing Mothers Act, which are now in effect. PWFA helps
    millions of pregnant women by ensuring that [employers make
    reasonable accommodations for them in the
    workplace](https://www.eeoc.gov/newsroom/eeoc-issues-final-regulation-pregnant-workers-fairness-act),
    such as additional breaks to drink water, eat, or use the restroom;
    a stool to sit on while working; and/or time off for health care
    appointments. The PUMP Act [extends protections for reasonable break
    time and private space to express breast
    milk](https://www.dol.gov/agencies/whd/pump-at-work) to nine million
    additional nursing workers.  
     
-   **Ensured that the federal government serves as a model employer for
    maternal health care coverage to its more than 8 million
    enrollees. **Currently, 100% of plans offered to federal employees
    and their families cover mental health treatment for postpartum
    depression; 99% cover certified nurse midwives; 67% cover delivery
    at birth centers; 67% cover nurse home visits; and 45% cover doulas.
    Plans also support the Biden-Harris Administration’s “Birthing
    Friendly” hospital designation by contracting with designated
    facilities and adopting the “Hear Her” campaign in their provider
    education work.  
     
-   **Worked to replace the nation’s lead pipes to decrease risk of
    miscarriage. **Drinking water from lead service lines can increase a
    woman’s risk of miscarriage. The Biden-Harris Administration
    invested $15 billion from the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law and
    launched the “[Get the Lead Out
    Initiative](https://www.epa.gov/newsreleases/biden-harris-administration-announces-new-get-lead-out-initiative-accelerate-removal)”
    in 200 underserved communities to accelerate removal of lead service
    lines nationwide.  
     
-   **Modernized the Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women,
    Infants, and Children (WIC) and increased program participation to
    combat food insecurity. **With $390 million from the American Rescue
    Plan, USDA made it [easier to apply for
    WIC](https://www.fns.usda.gov/wic/modernization) and provided new
    ways for people to participate in the program, including virtual
    options. USDA also updated the [WIC food
    packages](https://www.fns.usda.gov/wic/food-packages) to align with
    the latest nutrition science to promote healthy maternal and child
    outcomes, increase access to fruits and vegetables, allow more
    flexibility to meet special dietary needs, and provide more support
    for individual breastfeeding goals. These changes, taken together,
    have resulted in 400,000 more people with WIC benefits.  
     
-   **Invested in new community health center efforts to address
    maternal health disparities. **Invested more than [$65 million in 35
    HRSA-funded health
    centers](https://www.hhs.gov/about/news/2023/05/19/hhs-announces-over-65-million-address-maternal-health-crisis-invest-new-approaches-care.html) across
    the country to implement innovative approaches to improve maternal
    health outcomes and reduce disparities for patients at highest
    risk.   
     
-   **Secured public and private sector commitments from over 30
    entities, all of which have been completed or are ongoing for
    multi-year investments. **Several examples include Merck, which
    committed to invest $15 million of new funding to address racial
    disparities in maternal health by building and scaling
    evidence-based community-led approaches; CVS, which invested nearly
    $1.8 million in new maternal health initiatives focused on providing
    expecting parents, health care providers, and hospitals with
    critical educational resources; the Blue Cross Blue Shield
    Association, which partnered with the March of Dimes to offer
    additional training to providers, students, perinatal quality
    collaboratives, community organizations and their employees in more
    than 20 states nationwide; and Kaiser Permanente which extended and
    will evaluate the impact of its hypertension remote care monitoring
    program on health outcomes by race and ethnicity. The full list of
    commitments is
    available [here](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/12/07/initial-external-contributions-in-response-to-vice-president-kamala-harriss-call-to-action-to-reduce-maternal-mortality-and-morbidity/).  
     

Today’s announcement builds on President Biden and Vice President
Harris’s long record of fighting for the health, safety, and wellbeing
of women. Vice President Kamala Harris came into office as a key leader
on maternal health. As Attorney General of California, she was a fierce
advocate for domestic violence victims, who are all too frequently
mothers or pregnant. As Senator, she introduced a number of bills
addressing racial disparities in maternal morbidity and mortality that
later passed into law, including the [Maternal CARE
Act](https://www.congress.gov/bill/116th-congress/senate-bill/1600),
which included $125 million for states to establish care coordination
programs for pregnant women to identify high-risk pregnancies and
provide women with essential care and resources. She also introduced the
Black Maternal Health Momnibus Act, which sought to make investments in
social determinants of health, community-based organizations, and the
growth and diversification of the perinatal workforce among other
actions to improve Black maternal health.

Leading up to the [White House Blueprint for Addressing the Maternal
Health
Crisis](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/06/Maternal-Health-Blueprint.pdf),
the Vice President hosted a [roundtable on Black Maternal
Health](https://www.c-span.org/video/?510792-1/vice-president-harris-roundtable-black-maternal-health) and
was joined by women who shared their experiences with complications from
pregnancy, childbirth, and postpartum as well as their work in advocacy
and research, highlighting the disparities that Black women face in
maternal health. In April 2022, she convened a [historic meeting with
Cabinet Secretaries and agency
leaders](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/04/13/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-in-a-meeting-on-maternal-health/) to
discuss the Biden-Harris Administration’s whole-of-government approach
to addressing maternal mortality and morbidity. And the Vice President
will continue to use her platform to raise public awareness about the
maternal health crisis in our nation, as she has done while calling on
states to extend Medicaid postpartum coverage, highlighting the Maternal
Mental Health Hotline, and more.

\# \# \#
