---
date: '2024-07-11'
published_time: 2024-07-11 12:00:23-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/07/11/joint-statement-by-president-joseph-r-biden-of-the-united-states-of-america-and-president-yoon-suk-yeol-of-the-republic-of-korea-on-u-s-rok-guidelines-for-nuclear-deterrence-and-nuclear-operations-o/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Joint Statement by President Joseph R. Biden of the United\_States of America\
  \ and President Yoon Suk Yeol of the Republic of Korea on U.S.-ROK Guidelines for\
  \ Nuclear Deterrence and Nuclear Operations on the Korean\_Peninsula"
---
 
President Joseph R. Biden of the United States of America (U.S.) and
President Yoon Suk Yeol of the Republic of Korea (ROK) met on July 11,
2024 to reaffirm the advancements in U.S.-ROK security cooperation on
extended deterrence since their announcement of the U.S.-ROK Washington
Declaration in April 2023. The progress made since the establishment of
the U.S.-ROK Nuclear Consultative Group (NCG) demonstrates the truly
global, comprehensive, strategic alliance between the two countries, the
ever-stronger mutual defense relationship, and our shared interest in
peace, stability, and the complete denuclearization of the Korean
Peninsula.

The NCG was established as an enduring bilateral consultative body that
has implemented the U.S.-ROK Washington Declaration, directly
strengthened U.S.-ROK cooperation on extended deterrence, and managed
the threat to the nonproliferation regime posed by the Democratic
People’s Republic of Korea (DPRK). The NCG has facilitated joint
U.S.-ROK nuclear and strategic planning with a focus on ensuring the
continued safety and security of the people of the ROK, as well as the
U.S. servicemembers deployed to the Korean Peninsula, in the face of the
advancing nuclear threat posed by the DPRK. The NCG contributes to the
efforts by the U.S-ROK Alliance to enable joint planning and execution
for ROK conventional support to U.S. nuclear operations in a
contingency. The NCG also facilitates continuous improvement to U.S.-ROK
combined exercises and training activities, including through
regularized table-top exercises and whole-of-government simulations.

President Biden and President Yoon commend and endorse the tremendous
progress that the U.S.-ROK Alliance has achieved in the first year of
the NCG, as evidenced by the signing of the U.S.-ROK Guidelines for
Nuclear Deterrence and Nuclear Operations on the Korean Peninsula
(“Guidelines document”) by the U.S. Department of Defense and the ROK
Ministry of National Defense. The Presidents underscored that the
Guidelines document provides a solid foundation for enhancing U.S.-ROK
extended deterrence cooperation in an integrated manner. The Guidelines
document provides guidance to Alliance policy and military authorities
in maintaining and strengthening a credible and effective nuclear
deterrence policy and posture. The Presidents reiterated the need to
continue to make swift progress on NCG workstreams, including security
protocols and expansion of information sharing; nuclear consultation
processes in crises and contingencies; nuclear and strategic planning;
ROK conventional support to U.S. nuclear operations in a contingency
through conventional-nuclear integration; strategic communications;
exercises, simulations, training, and investment activities; and risk
reduction practices.

The Presidents reaffirmed their commitments in the U.S.-ROK Washington
Declaration and highlighted that any nuclear attack by the DPRK against
the ROK will be met with a swift, overwhelming and decisive response.
President Biden reiterated that the U.S. commitment to extended
deterrence to the ROK is backed by the full range of U.S. capabilities,
including nuclear. President Yoon reiterated that the ROK’s full range
of capabilities will greatly contribute to the Alliance’s combined
defense posture. 

\###
