---
date: '2024-07-12'
modified_time: 2024-07-12 11:55:07-04:00
published_time: 2024-07-12 15:30:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/07/12/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-highlights-success-in-expanding-access-to-capital-and-private-contracting-opportunities-for-underserved-communities-following-vice-presidents-2023-call/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Fact Sheet: Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Highlights Success in Expanding\
  \ Access to Capital and Private Contracting Opportunities for Underserved Communities\
  \ Following Vice President\u2019s 2023 Call to\_Action"
---
 
*Private commitments to make deposits at community lenders on pace to
reach $3 billion by 2025, and Treasury Department announced that more
than 40% of loans and investments supported by the American Rescue
Plan’s State Small Business Credit Initiative (SSBCI) in 2022 and 2023
supported minority owned businesses.*

Following Vice President Kamala Harris’s call to action in 2023, the
Biden-Harris Administration announced progress on expanding access to
capital to underserved communities during the 2024 Freedman’s Bank
Summer Symposium.  These accomplishments include the commitment by
private companies and philanthropy to make $3 billion in deposits with
Community Development Financial Institutions (CDFIs) and Minority
Depository Institutions (MDIs) by 2025 through the Economic Opportunity
Coalition, up from the $1 billion committed in 2023. Today’s
announcement is another sign that the Biden-Harris Administration is
driving a great American comeback in communities across the country.   

Under the Biden-Harris Administration, the U.S. Small Business
Administration (SBA) has backed $35 billion in loans to over 68,000
minority-owned small businesses, an increase of more than 13% compared
to the entirety of the prior Administration. Additionally, [the Treasury
Department released new
data](https://home.treasury.gov/system/files/256/Summary-of-Participating-Jurisdictions-2022-and-2023-Annual-Reports.pdf)
showing that at least 43% of the small businesses receiving loans or
investments supported by SSBCI in 2022 and 2023 were minority-owned
businesses, with one out of every seven transactions supporting a
Black-owned small business. By the end of 2023, SSBCI had already helped
to catalyze and inject over $3.2 billion in new financing for more than
3,600 small businesses. SSBCI funding included in the American Rescue
Plan is expected to catalyze roughly $100 billion in capital support for
100,000 small businesses over the course of the decade.

This year’s symposium took place at Shaw University, the oldest
Historically Black College and University (HBCU) in the South, and
spotlighted local impacts of Biden-Harris Administration investments in
and around Raleigh, NC. The city is the historic home to a branch of the
[original Freedman’s
Bank](https://home.treasury.gov/about/history/freedmans-bank-building) –
a Reconstruction era savings and trust company whose charter was signed
in 1865 by President Abraham Lincoln to support the financial
independence of the Nation’s over four million newly emancipated African
Americans. Today’s event, modeled after the Vice President’s [nationwide
Economic Opportunity
Tour](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/04/25/vice-president-kamala-harris-launches-nationwide-economic-opportunity-tour/),
highlighted the significant progress made to support underserved
businesses and aspiring entrepreneurs following the Vice President’s
[2023 call to
action](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/10/25/fact-sheet-vice-president-harris-announces-new-efforts-to-expand-capital-access-and-contracting-opportunities-for-minority-owned-and-underserved-businesses-at-the-freedmans-bank-forum/).

Following efforts by the Biden-Harris Administration, Black business
ownership and Latino business ownership are growing at their fastest
pace in 30 years. In addition, median net worth is up 60% for Black
families and 47% for Latino families from 2019 to 2022, after falling in
the prior decade. President Biden and Vice President Harris are
committed to building on this progress and ensuring that this equitable
growth continues.

“President Biden and Vice President Harris understand that while genius
lives in every corner of this nation, opportunity does not. This is why
the Biden-Harris administration is committed to building an economy that
provides an opportunity for all Americans to live up to their full
potential. With record-breaking Black and Latino net worth and business
ownership rates, the data continues to show that President Biden’s
economic plan is delivering for working families,” **said Mayor Stephen
Benjamin, Senior Advisor and Director of the Office of Public
Engagement.**

During the 2023 Freedman’s Bank Forum, Vice-President Harris set an
ambitious agenda, calling for private sector and philanthropic leaders
to take action to increase capital to underserved businesses. Since this
call to action, significant progress has been made to:

-   **Increase access for small and underserved businesses into domestic
    supply chains.** Vice President Harris called on companies in
    Investing in America sectors—semiconductor manufacturing, clean
    energy manufacturing, transportation, heavy industry, and
    biomanufacturing—to strengthen and diversify domestic supply chains
    by committing at least 15% of their U.S.-based contract spending for
    small and underserved businesses by 2025. This ambitious goal
    matches the federal government’s commitment to spending at least 15%
    of eligible federal contracting dollars on small disadvantaged
    businesses.

<!-- -->

-   **Commit $3 billion in corporate deposits to community finance
    institutions**. Following $1 billion in deposit commitments to CDFIs
    and MDIs by June 2023, the Economic Opportunity Coalition (EOC) – a
    public-private partnership to advance opportunity in underserved
    communities across the country made up of more than 30 of America’s
    leading companies – announced an ambitious goal of growing this
    total to $3 billion in committed deposits by 2025. Since setting
    this goal, the EOC has deployed an additional $850 million to CDFIs
    and MDIs, including $65 million deposited in North Carolina.
    Deposits have gone to M&F Bank, Self Help, and the Latino Community
    Credit Union, made by Bank of America, TIAA-CREF, Citi, and other
    EOC members, putting the EOC on pace to reach $3 billion in CDFI and
    MDI deposit commitments by the end of the year.

<!-- -->

-   **Catalyze over $3 billion in capital support for small and
    underserved business through the State Small Business Credit
    Initiative, including in North Carolina.** In 2022 and 2023, states,
    tribal governments, and territories delivered over $750 million of
    SSBCI funding through SSBCI-supported loans and investments that
    catalyzed a total of $3.2 billion in overall new financing for more
    than 3,600 small businesses. [Newly released program
    data](https://home.treasury.gov/system/files/256/Summary-of-Participating-Jurisdictions-2022-and-2023-Annual-Reports.pdf)
    shows that at least 43% percent of transactions supported
    minority-owned businesses. Roughly a third of businesses supported
    by SSBCI funds through the end of 2023 were women-owned and at least
    4% were veteran-owned. Black and Asian-owned businesses accounted
    for at least 14% and 13% of SSBCI-supported loans and investments,
    respectively, and Hispanic or Latino-owned businesses accounted for
    at least 12%. Thanks to the American Rescue Plan, North Carolina is
    expected to receive more than $200 million from SSBCI to support
    small businesses in the state. By the end of 2023, the
    SSBCI-supported NC Loan Participation Program had already helped to
    leverage over $370 million in capital support for North Carolina
    small businesses, leading to the creation or retention of over 3,500
    jobs. Other highlights from the 2023 Annual Report include: SSBCI
    funds have helped create 46,000 jobs, 80% of SSBCI transactions
    supported business with fewer than 10 employees, 90% of businesses
    receiving SSBCI venture capital investments were early stage, seed,
    or pre-seed stage, supporting the small business boom.

<!-- -->

-   **Deploy over $1 billion for making equity investments in small
    businesses directly or through existing venture firms.** SSBCI is
    the most widespread federal investment in small businesses through
    equity capital ever and the largest direct infusion of federal funds
    for equity participation in early-stage small businesses in history.
    Nationwide, [over $1 billion in SSBCI funding has already been
    deployed](https://home.treasury.gov/system/files/256/SSBCI_Spotlight.pdf)
    to support equity investments in small businesses or obligated to
    venture capital funds that will invest in small companies. In the
    coming years, SSBCI is expected to deliver an additional roughly $2
    billion and ultimately support equity investments in 47 states and
    territories, reaching far beyond the traditional communities served
    by these investments. [Announced by Vice President Harris in March
    2024](https://home.treasury.gov/news/press-releases/jy2143), North
    Carolina has also committed nearly $32 million of SSBCI funding to a
    venture capital program – run through the [North Carolina Rural
    Center (NC Rural
    Center)](https://www.ncruralcenter.org/ssbci/nc-venture-capital-program/)
    in partnership with the North Carolina Department of Commerce – that
    will focus on supporting venture capital funds led by emerging fund
    managers or fund managers representing historically underserved
    communities, providing much need capital to businesses who are
    otherwise unable to access venture capital funds.

<!-- -->

-   **Help Small Businesses secure over $177 million in loan matches,
    grants, and private capital through the Initiative for Inclusive
    Entrepreneurship national pilot.** At the 2022 Freedman’s Bank
    Forum, the Initiative for Inclusive Entrepreneurship (IIE) announced
    a pilot to help small underserved businesses better access available
    SSBCI resources through capacity building, training, and the
    deployment of philanthropic and private capital. The IIE doubled its
    initial goal by helping small businesses secure over [$177 million
    in loan matches, grants, and private capital and aiding over 3,100
    small
    businesses](https://www.hyphenpartnerships.org/_files/ugd/fb0caa_4f2685e058f1483db60de3563bc7c9d1.pdf)
    through training, technical assistance, and outreach during the
    18-month pilot.

Building on these commitments, the federal government is engaged in a
whole-of-government effort to support underserved businesses. The 2024
Freedman’s Bank Symposium highlighted the on-the-ground effects these
efforts have already had in states and communities across the country,
including in North Carolina. These efforts include:

-   **Awarding $850 million in federal procurement dollars going to
    small disadvantaged businesses (SDBs) in North Carolina.** In FY23,
    the federal government exceeded its goal by allocating [12.1% or
    $76.2
    billion](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/04/29/fact-sheet-celebrating-national-small-business-week-biden-harris-administration-announces-a-record-in-federal-procurement-dollars-awarded-to-small-businesses/)
    in eligible federal contracting dollars to small disadvantaged
    businesses, marking the third straight year of record-breaking
    contract awards to SDBs. This includes [over $850
    million](https://datahub.certify.sba.gov/) to SDBs in North
    Carolina.

<!-- -->

-   **Expanding traditional SBA lending and Community Advantage lending
    to support underserved businesses.** In FY 23, Community Advantage
    lenders [grew their SBA
    lending](https://data.sba.gov/en/dataset/activity-reports-fy2023) by
    10.8% compared to FY22 for a total of $141.3 million across 800
    loans to small businesses — demonstrating the impact of expanding
    capital access in underserved communities. [In FY24 to
    date](https://careports.sba.gov/views/7a504Summary/Report?%3Aembed=yes&%3Atoolbar=no),
    $142M in Community Advantage dollars have gone out across 791 loans
    to small businesses – representing 101% of total FY23 dollars with
    three months remaining in the fiscal year. These increases follow
    the transition of 142 Community Advantage lenders to the SBA’s
    [Community Advantage Pilot
    Program](https://www.sba.gov/article/2022/mar/30/biden-harris-administration-expands-sba-pilot-program-targeting-access-capital-underserved),
    enabling lenders to become Community Advantage Small Business
    Lending Companies (CA SBLCs) and helping small business borrowers in
    underserved markets gain access to capital. Further, the SBA has
    funded over [14,000 Black-owned small
    businesses](https://careports.sba.gov/views/7a504Summary/Report?%3Aembed=yes&%3Atoolbar=no),
    backing $4 billion in loans so far during the Biden-Harris
    Administration, up over 53% compared to the entirely of the prior
    Administration.

<!-- -->

-   **Providing $2.5 million in loans to National Church Residences of
    Clinton, North Carolina through the Department of Housing and Urban
    Development’s (HUD) Comprehensive cohort of the Green and Resilient
    Retrofit Program (GRRP).** GRRP provides grants and loans to support
    energy efficiency and climate resiliency in affordable housing for
    the people most impacted by climate change. Clinton Crossing plans
    to undertake a deep retrofits, reducing greenhouse gas emissions and
    operating costs through energy efficiency measures and renewable
    energy generation, and making properties more resilient to climate
    hazards. These awards represent not just our ongoing commitment to
    improving the health and safety of homes for low-income families,
    but also the power of partnerships that use federal funding made
    available through President Biden’s Inflation Reduction Act combined
    with private resources to combat climate change and promote energy
    efficiency.

<!-- -->

-   **Supporting CDFIs and MDIs in North Carolina by providing over $734
    million in Emergency Capital Investment Program (ECIP)
    investments.** Nationwide,ECIP – a program the Vice President pushed
    for and passed into law when she was a U.S. Senator – has invested
    $8.57 billion into community financial institutions to support small
    businesses and consumers affected by COVID-19. From May 2022 to
    December 2023, ECIP institutions in North Carolina have achieved $3
    billion in total lending, 41% of which was “deep impact lending” to
    the hardest to serve borrowers – including those who are low-income,
    minorities and residents of Native American lands. This included
    over 2,000 mortgages to minorities and other populations totaling
    $440 million and 127 loans totaling $33 million to small businesses,
    more than 60 of which went to very small firms with revenues of less
    than $100,00 a year.

<!-- -->

-   **Investing in housing and community development to support strong
    local communities.** Under the Biden-Harris Administration, the
    Office of Community Planning and Development at HUD made over $1
    billion available to communities across the State of North Carolina
    for housing and community development, including new funding
    opportunities made possible by the American Rescue Plan. Over $137
    million under the HOME Investment Partnerships American Rescue Plan
    Program (HOME-ARP) – a $4.35 billion program to build and preserve
    affordable rental homes – was allocated to communities across the
    State of North Carolina to provide new housing, non-congregate
    shelter, rental assistance, and supportive services to people
    experiencing homelessness or housing insecurity. This funding will
    build nearly 700 new homes and support nearly 250 families with
    lifesaving services.

\# \# \#
