---
date: '2024-07-11'
published_time: 2024-07-11 12:08:49-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/07/11/statement-from-nsc-spokesperson-adrienne-watson-on-u-s-actions-against-transnational-criminal-organization-tren-de-aragua/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Statement from NSC Spokesperson Adrienne Watson on U.S. Actions Against Transnational\
  \ Criminal Organization Tren de\_Aragua"
---
 
Today, the Biden-Harris Administration took new actions to halt
the spread of Tren de Aragua, a transnational criminal organization from
Venezuela that is involved in violent criminal acts, and hold their
members and associates to account.  First, the Department of the
Treasury **[designated Tren de Aragua as a significant transnational
criminal
organization ](https://home.treasury.gov/news/press-releases/jy2459)**.
 As a result, all property and interests in property of Tren de
Aragua that are in the United States or in the possession or control of
U.S. persons are blocked. In addition, the Department of State, in
coordination with the Department of Justice (DOJ), is offering up to
**[$12 million in financial rewards for information leading to the
arrest and/or conviction of three leaders of Tren de
Aragua](https://www.state.gov/up-to-12-million-in-reward-offers-for-information-leading-to-arrests-and-or-convictions-of-three-leaders-of-the-tren-de-aragua-transnational-criminal-organization/)**.

Departments and agencies across the U.S. government also continue to
prioritize actions being taken to identify and disrupt Tren de
Aragua and other violent criminal organizations through a combination of
investigative, prosecutorial, diplomatic, screening, and vetting tools,
in accordance with the [Strategy to Combat Transnational Organized
Crime](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/04/Transnational-Organized-Crime_FINAL_Dec2023.pdf). Law enforcement
agents are working with local and state partners to investigate and
prosecute Tren de Aragua members and affiliates engaged in criminal
activities.  The Department of Homeland Security (DHS), the Department
of State, and DOJ are supporting foreign partners in their efforts
to disrupt Tren de Aragua, and DHS has implemented enhanced vetting
processes to vet individuals before they arrive at the border as well as
enhanced screening measures at the border to identify known or suspected
gang members, including members of Tren de Aragua.  Those identified as
gang members are detained and either referred for criminal prosecution
or held pending removal.  The [Presidential Proclamation and Interim
Final
Rule](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/06/04/fact-sheet-president-biden-announces-new-actions-to-secure-the-border/) issued
on June 4, 2024 further strengthen border security in ways that
support enforcement against criminal organizations like Tren de Aragua. 

\###
