---
date: '2024-07-09'
modified_time: 2024-07-10 18:14:21-04:00
published_time: 2024-07-09 18:13:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/07/09/statement-from-national-climate-advisor-ali-zaidi-on-the-signing-of-the-accelerating-deployment-of-versatile-advanced-nuclear-for-clean-energy-advance-act-into-law/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Statement From National Climate Advisor Ali Zaidi on the Signing of the Accelerating\
  \ Deployment of Versatile, Advanced Nuclear for Clean Energy (ADVANCE) Act into\_\
  Law"
---
 
Following the [President’s signing into law of S.
870](https://x.com/POTUS/status/1810781741965013156), which included the
[Accelerating Deployment of Versatile, Advanced Nuclear for Clean Energy
(ADVANCE)
Act](https://www.congress.gov/bill/118th-congress/senate-bill/870),
National Climate Advisor Ali Zaidi released the following statement:

“Today, President Biden signed into law the ADVANCE Act, a significant,
bipartisan win for American innovation, our energy security, and the
necessary work of achieving economy-wide, net-zero emissions by 2050.
This law strengthens our nation’s leadership in civilian nuclear energy
and accelerates the deployment of those technologies by providing extra
resources and authorities to the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, without
diminishing the utmost importance of the Commission’s work to protect
people, communities, and the environment. The enactment of the ADVANCE
Act builds on the historic track record that the Biden-Harris
Administration has already established, delivering results and taking
action to deploy of carbon-free energy to meet the needs of a growing
economy propelled by President’s [Investing in America
agenda](https://www.whitehouse.gov/invest).

“The law better equips the Nuclear Regulatory Commission to license new
reactor designs by giving the agency more resources to hire and retain
the strong scientific and engineering talent needed to vigorously carry
out its mission. The ADVANCE Act empowers the Commission to better
advocate for American nuclear energy in international venues, enlists
the Commission in the revitalization of retired fossil and brownfield
sites, and codifies the timely and efficient licensing of nuclear power
as an agency priority. The Act builds on President Biden’s success in
restoring U.S. climate and clean energy leadership on the global stage,
bringing climate jobs and economic opportunity to communities that have
been left out and left behind, and working aggressively to improve the
predictability and efficiency of permitting.   

“From Day One, President Biden has taken [historic
steps](https://www.energy.gov/ne/articles/biden-harris-administration-takes-action-secure-nuclear-fuel-supply-chain-equip)
to keep existing nuclear plants from shutting down, restart previously
shuttered nuclear plants, and bring new reactors online. The results are
visible across the country – more clean power and more union jobs. 
Under the President’s leadership, we are also reinvigorating the
development of a U.S. fuel supply chain while restricting import of
Russian uranium. These historic steps recognize that responsible
deployment, rigorous regulation, and revved up innovation are key to
strengthening our national security, tackling the climate crisis, and
growing America’s economy.”

\###
