---
date: '2024-07-17'
published_time: 2024-07-17 08:34:29-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/07/17/white-house-launches-fifth-investing-in-america-tour-to-highlight-how-president-bidens-agenda-is-lowering-costs-creating-good-jobs-and-revitalizing-communities-across-the-country/
tags: statements-releases
title: "White\_House Launches Fifth Investing in America Tour to Highlight How President\_\
  Biden\u2019s Agenda is Lowering Costs, Creating Good Jobs, and Revitalizing Communities\
  \ Across the\_Country"
---
 
*Biden-Harris Administration announces $5 billion for new infrastructure
projects and releases new tools for Americans to see how the President’s
actions are lowering costs and benefiting their daily lives*

This week, the Biden-Harris Administration will launch its fifth
Investing in America tour: *Investing in America, Made in America*.
President Biden’s Cabinet and White House officials will make over 70
stops to over 30 states across the country to highlight how President
Biden’s policies are lowering costs, creating good jobs, rebuilding
America’s infrastructure, and spurring investments in manufacturing so
that goods are once again made in America by American workers. After
four years of trickle-down policies that set rural communities back,
with President Biden’s help, today rural communities are making a
comeback. The fifth Investing in America tour comes as Republican
Members of Congress continue to push an extreme agenda that would raise
costs on American families, cut Medicare and Social Security, and
undermine policies that are driving investments in manufacturing and job
creation *here* in America.  

To kick off the tour, the White House released new tools on Invest.gov
that highlight how the President’s agenda is benefitting Americans’
daily lives, including a Savings Explorer to show users how the
Biden-Harris Administration is helping them save money on everyday costs
and basic needs, and a new website page that highlights stories of
Americans benefitting from Biden-Harris Administration investments in
rural communities. The Biden-Harris Administration also announced $5
billion in awards for infrastructure projects to repair, reconstruct,
and restore large bridges across the country. And, today the Department
of Commerce announced a $400 million CHIPS and Science Act preliminary
agreement with Globalwafers to manufacture semiconductor components,
strengthening the domestic supply chain and creating jobs in Texas and
Missouri.

**White House launches new Savings Explorer on Invest.gov**

This week the White House launched a new tool on Invest.gov, allowing
Americans to explore how much they can save on average per year from the
Biden-Harris Administration actions to lower costs – ranging from health
care and home energy to education and groceries. President Biden has
taken historic action to lower costs for families, including capping
insulin costs at $35 for seniors, giving Medicare the power to negotiate
lower prescription drug prices, lowering home energy bills for
low-income Americans, canceling student loan debt for 4.75 million
people, and cracking down on junk fees in banking and hospitality.

While President Biden continues to take action to lower costs for
working families, Congressional Republicans continue to side with
special interests to push an extreme agenda that would raise costs on
working families, give tax breaks to corporations and billionaires, and
cut benefits to Medicare and Social Security. President Biden vowed not
to raise taxes on anyone making less than $400,000 per year and has
taken steps to protect Social Security and Medicare, not weaken it.

Visit
[invest.gov/savings](/Users/RRThomas/Work%20Folders/Documents/Implementation/invest.gov/savings)
to use the Savings Explorer.

**Invest.gov/Rural spotlights impact stories in rural communities**

President Biden promised to be a President for all Americans, in every
state and community. This week, the White House also launched a new
website called Invest.gov/rural, highlighting stories of individuals,
businesses, and local governments benefitting from Biden-Harris
Administration investments in Rural America. It includes impact stories
of specific communities – from a town in rural Georgia that is receiving
funding to construct a new wastewater treatment plant to a hospital in
rural Michigan that is expanding critical, life-saving emergency
services thanks to funding from the American Rescue Plan.

Visit
[Invest.gov/Rural](/Users/MNHumes/AppData/Local/Microsoft/Windows/INetCache/Content.Outlook/I7KXC5QR/invest.gov/rural)
to see the impact stories.

**Biden-Harris Administration announces $5 billion in awards for bridge
infrastructure projects**

Today, the Department of Transportation is announcing $5 billion in
awards from the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law to reconstruct, repair,
and restore 13 large bridges across the country. These bridges play a
critical role in connecting communities to jobs and resources, economic
development, and serve as essential corridors for freight travel. These
projects will also address important safety issues and make the bridges
more resilient to extreme weather, all while creating good-paying
construction jobs. Secretary of Transportation Pete Buttigieg will
travel to Pennsylvania to make the announcement of the awards. To date,
the Biden-Harris Administration has announced over 60,000 infrastructure
and clean energy projects across the country, funded by the Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law and Inflation Reduction Act, including nearly 10,000
bridge projects already underway.

**Fifth Investing in America tour highlights Made in America policies
and investments**

The fifth Investing in America tour: *Investing in America, Made in
America* will highlight how President Biden has unleashed unprecedented
investments in the United States, creating good jobs across America,
lowering costs, and spurring economic comebacks in communities too often
left out or left behind. To date, over 63,000 clean energy and
infrastructure projects are underway across the country, and companies
have announced $877 billion in private sector manufacturing and clean
energy investments. Biden-Harris Administration has taken historic steps
to bolster domestic manufacturing of semiconductors, electric vehicles
and component materials, clean technology, fiber optic cable, and
infrastructure across the United States. Those historic investments have
helped double the construction of factories in the United States under
President Biden, and construction employment has reached a record high.

The *Investing in America, Made in America* tour coincides with Made in
America week. Throughout the tour, White House officials and the
President’s Cabinet will highlight these Made in America investments,
including:

-   Second Gentleman Douglas Emhoff will travel to Phoenix, Arizona to
    highlight new funding for the Valley Metro Rio East-Dobson Streetcar
    Extension, as part of the Administration’s efforts to reduce
    transportation-related air pollution and greenhouse gas emissions.
-   Secretary of Transportation Pete Buttigieg will travel to
    Pennsylvania to highlight $5 billion going to more than a dozen
    states to repair and replace some of the nation’s most significant
    bridges. Funded by President Biden’s Bipartisan Infrastructure Law,
    these investments are helping drive record increases in construction
    jobs under the Biden-Harris Administration. He will later travel to
    Southern California to celebrate a groundbreaking on a major port
    project also funded by the infrastructure law that will improve
    efficiency, lower costs for consumers, and reduce air pollution.

<!-- -->

-   Secretary of Health and Human Services Xavier Becerra is traveling
    to Nevada to highlight the Biden-Harris Administration’s historic
    actions to lower health care and prescription drug costs, including
    giving Medicare the power to negotiate lower prescription drug
    prices.

<!-- -->

-   Secretary of Education Miguel Cardona will travel to South Carolina
    to highlight the Biden-Harris Administration’s work to provide
    student debt relief, and to visit Historically Black Colleges and
    Universities and highlight the Biden-Harris Administration’s
    investments in rural and technical HBCUs.

<!-- -->

-   Secretary of Energy Jennifer M. Granholm is traveling to the U.S.
    Virgin Islands to emphasize the Administration’s commitment to
    delivering clean and reliable energy for all Americans, as well as
    to Puerto Rico to highlight how the Biden-Harris Administration is
    making historic investments to secure clean energy access during
    extreme weather events, ensuring battery storage and upgrades to the
    electric grid to make sure no community is left behind.

<!-- -->

-   Environmental Protection Agency Administrator Michael Regan traveled
    to Nevada for the NAACP Convention and to tour a cooling center to
    highlight how President Biden’s Investing in America agenda is
    protecting communities from extreme heat and delivering cleaner air,
    safer water, and environmental justice, while lowering costs and
    creating economic opportunity in the process. He will also travel to
    Pennsylvania to announce new investments from the Biden-Harris
    Administration to tackle the climate crisis and create clean energy
    jobs in the United States.

<!-- -->

-   Administrator of the Small Business Administration Isabel Guzman
    will travel to Arkansas to highlight how the Biden-Harris
    Administration has overseen record small business growth, with 18
    million new business applications filed under the President’s
    leadership.

<!-- -->

-   Secretary Haaland will travel to Alaska to meet with Tribes and
    highlight the transformational investments provided through
    President Biden’s Investing in America agenda to strengthen Indian
    country. Then, she will travel to Washington to highlight how
    President Biden’s Investing in America agenda is protecting
    communities from wildland fire, restoring ecosystems in partnership
    with Tribes and safeguarding local water supplies.

<!-- -->

-   Secretary of Agriculture Tom Vilsack will travel to Pennsylvania to
    highlight how President Biden is making critical investments to
    support urban and rural agriculture and advance equity in farming
    and rural communities. He will also discuss how the President’s
    Investing in America agenda is making historic investments in
    on-farm conservation and helps producers build resilience to climate
    change.

<!-- -->

-   Acting Secretary of Labor Julie Su will travel to Las Vegas, Nevada
    to address the UNIDOS Conference and the NAACP Annual Conference,
    highlighting the good jobs created by the Biden-Harris
    Administration. Also while in Nevada, she will highlight IIA
    investments during a stop for the Department of Labor’s Good Jobs
    Summer Tour, and will engage members of the AANHPI community at an
    event with Domestic Policy Advisor Neera Tanden. Later this week,
    Acting Secretary Su will travel to Georgia to highlight the
    Administration’s recently awarded Domestic Conversion Manufacturing
    Grants, which are helping auto manufacturing companies like clean
    school bus manufacturer Blue Bird invest in American manufacturing
    and create clean energy jobs.

<!-- -->

-   Director of the National Economic Council Lael Brainard will travel
    to Chicago to discuss building innovation clusters throughout the
    country. She will also participate in an Energy Communities Summit
    and a Roosevelt Institute convening on placed based investment
    policy.

<!-- -->

-   White House Director of the Office of Intergovernmental Affairs Tom
    Perez will travel to Pennsylvania to highlight the Biden-Harris
    Administration’s recent domestic manufacturing grant to Volvo to
    help them invest in America and create clean energy jobs.  

<!-- -->

-   White House Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy
    Arati Prabhakar and Under Secretary of Commerce for Standards and
    Technology Laurie E. Locascio will travel to Colorado to highlight a
    CHIPS and Science Act preliminary agreement with Entegris, which is
    creating 1,100 new jobs in construction and manufacturing and
    helping build out the American semiconductor supply chain.

<!-- -->

-   Chief Economist of the White House Investing in America Cabinet
    Heather Boushey is traveling to Kentucky for a site-visit to a
    cattle farm that transitioned to solar energy in Hardinsburg. Then,
    she will travel to Louisville for an event highlighting public and
    private sector investments in the state highlighting good paying
    jobs with the Louisville Mayor.

While White House and Cabinet officials are highlighting the President’s
Made in America policies in communities across the country, Republican
elected officials continue to try to raise costs on working families and
roll back investments that are bringing jobs and opportunity to their
communities. Their plan would:

-   Increase costs for health care, prescription drugs, and insulin by
    repealing the Inflation Reduction Act and Affordable Care Act and
    slashing Medicare.
-   Increase utility bills and energy costs by repealing the Inflation
    Reduction Act.
-   Raise taxes for middle-class families by repealing the Inflation
    Reduction Act and the Affordable Care Act.
-   Raise housing costs by cutting rental assistance and programs to
    build new homes.

<!-- -->

-   Undermine $877 billion in private sector manufacturing and clean
    energy investments spurred by the President’s Investing in America
    agenda and ship hundreds of thousands of jobs in clean energy and
    manufacturing overseas by repealing the Inflation Reduction Act.
