---
date: '2024-07-10'
modified_time: 2024-07-09 20:22:39-04:00
published_time: 2024-07-10 05:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/07/10/fact-sheet-the-2024-nato-summit-in-washington/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: The 2024 NATO Summit in\_Washington"
---
 
The United States is hosting the 2024 NATO Summit, July 9-11, 2024, in
Washington, D.C., marking the historic 75th Anniversary of the
Alliance.  The Washington Summit will convene all 32 Allies to
demonstrate the continued strength and unity of the Transatlantic
Alliance.  Today, NATO is as united as it has ever been and it is
larger, stronger, and better resourced than ever. President Biden will
reaffirm the United States’ unwavering commitment to the transatlantic
bond and Article 5 of the Washington Treaty – that an attack on one is
an attack on all.  Allies are further strengthening their collective
support to Ukraine at this critical moment for transatlantic security
and reiterating their commitment that Ukraine’s future is in NATO. 
Building on the historic decisions at the 2023 NATO Summit in Vilnius to
adapt NATO to today’s security challenges, Allied leaders in Washington
will advance the implementation of NATO’s new defense plans, ensuring
Allies are prepared to deter threats and defend every inch of NATO
territory.  NATO partner leaders including Ukraine, Australia, Japan,
New Zealand, the Republic of Korea, and the European Union are joining
Allies during the summit to advance collective efforts to strengthen
international peace and security.  NATO Allies will also welcome the
selection of Mark Rutte as the next NATO Secretary General and express
their respect and appreciation for Jens Stoltenberg’s decade of
commitment and service to the Alliance.  Key Summit Outcomes include:

**A Stronger, Reinvigorated and More Robust Alliance: **

Allied leaders will meet for the first time at 32, welcoming their
newest member, Sweden, into the Alliance.  Under President Biden’s
leadership, Finland and Sweden have joined NATO.  Both countries are
highly capable Allies with strong militaries who share the Alliance’s
democratic values and will strengthen its defense capabilities.  The
United States looks forward to their further integration into NATO’s
command structures.

**Support for Ukraine:**

The Washington Summit will strengthen NATO’s relationship with Ukraine,
as Allies convene for the second meeting of the NATO-Ukraine Council at
the Leaders level.  Ukrainian President Zelenskyy will sit with Allied
leaders to discuss further Alliance support for Ukraine in its ongoing
fight to defend its freedom, sovereignty and territorial integrity
against Russian aggression.  Allies are announcing significant new
measures of support for Ukraine that will bring Ukraine closer to NATO
while laying the foundation to strengthen Ukraine’s ability to defend
against Russian aggression, now and in the future.  Allies will also
take tangible steps at the Summit to increase NATO’s role in building a
resilient Ukrainian force with a credible defense and deterrence
capability while also supporting ongoing reforms that further align
Ukraine with NATO standards and values.  At the Summit Allies will
announce new steps to advance military, political, and financial support
to Ukraine.  These elements taken together with Allies’ bilateral
support for Ukraine, form the bridge to Ukraine’s future NATO
membership.

-   NATO Security Assistance and Training for Ukraine (NSATU) – NSATU
    will coordinate equipment, training and force development work to
    support Ukraine on its path to full interoperability with NATO.  A
    three-star general based in Germany will lead the effort, which will
    be carried out in Allied countries.  Through its work, NSATU will
    help Ukraine to defend against Russian aggression today and deter
    aggression in the future.
-   NATO Senior Representative in Kyiv – To further deepen Ukraine’s
    institutional relationship with NATO, the Secretary General has
    decided to appoint a senior civilian representative in Kyiv to act
    as a focal point for NATO’s engagement with senior Ukrainian
    officials.
-   Financial Support – Allies will announce their intention to provide
    a minimum baseline funding of €40 billion within the next year, and
    to provide sustainable levels of security assistance for Ukraine to
    prevail.  The United States is proud to support that effort.  Our
    contributions to Ukraine for this pledge will come from the funds
    already appropriated by Congress in the national security
    supplemental, which President Biden signed into law in April. 

**Increased Defense Spending and Strengthened Defense Industrial
Base:** 

The Alliance is spending more than ever on critical new defense
procurement as well as research and development.  When the Biden-Harris
Administration took office, only nine Allies met the Vilnius defense
investment commitments to spend at least two percent of GDP on defense. 
Twenty-three Allies now meet or exceed their defense spending
commitment.  This is important progress since 2014 when only three
Allies were spending two percent of GDP on defense.  We celebrate this
increase while noting every Ally should have a plan to meet the two
percent benchmark as soon as possible. 

Increased defense spending must be coupled with a strengthened
transatlantic defense industrial base to ensure Allies are able to
produce and sustain the necessary battle-decisive munitions.  In
Vilnius, Allies adopted a Defense Production Action Plan to better
connect our defense industries with defense planning, facilitate more
joint procurement, and make it easier for Allies to acquire the
equipment they need to meet NATO’s capability targets and standards.  As
a result of these efforts, NATO has agreed to contracts worth $10
billion for the production of arms and ammunition to replenish Allied
stocks, a significant commitment that will create jobs in the United
States.  At the Washington Summit, Allies will take further steps to
strengthen our cooperation and increase defense industrial production,
including a pledge to coordinate on national plans to improve industrial
capacity, enhance standardization to promote interoperability and
interchangeability, and strengthen demand signals to industry that these
increased investments will persist over time.

**Modernized Deterrence and Defense:  **

NATO is a defensive alliance.  Its main purpose is to prevent war, not
to wage it.  Allies do this by keeping our defenses strong.  Leaders at
the Washington Summit will take additional steps to advance NATO’s
modernized command structure and put NATO’s new generation of defense
plans into practice, strengthening the Alliance’s deterrence and defense
capabilities to meet the threats of today and the future.  These plans,
which cover NATO territory and span all domains, from air, land, and
sea, to cyber and space, are the first set of comprehensive defense
plans the Alliance has developed since the end of the Cold War.  The
Alliance has now completed the full blueprint for modernizing its system
of collective defense.  This includes an updated force structure to
strengthen the Alliance’s readiness and ability to respond to any
scenario, and an objective, conditions-based driver for Allies’ defense
planning and procurement.  NATO is now able to tie the Alliance’s forces
to specific geography and tasks, giving even better focus to the
Alliance’s operations, activities, and investments.  The modernized
command structure that leaders will advance in Washington will transform
headquarters once fit for peacetime and out-of-area operations into
headquarters ready to deter any threat and defend Allied territory.

**Strengthening Global Partnerships:**

For the third consecutive year, NATO leaders invited Indo-Pacific
Partners Australia, Japan, New Zealand, and the Republic of Korea to
participate in the NATO Summit at the highest levels.  NATO and
Indo-Pacific Partners will meet, along with the European Union and
European Commission, to discuss the increasing connectivity between
Euro-Atlantic and Indo-Pacific security, including the increasingly
concerning military and economic relationship between Russia and the
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, and the People’s Republic of
China’s support for Russia’s defense industrial base.  NATO Allies and
these partners will also discuss their shared support for Ukraine, the
Indo-Pacific Partners’ growing contributions to global security,
transnational challenges including on cyber and disinformation that
transcend geographic boundaries, and continued cooperation to build
collective resilience in the face of global challenges.  NATO Allies and
the Indo-Pacific partners will deepen practical cooperation and launch
four new Flagship Projects.  The projects will focus on 1) support for
Ukraine; 2) enhancing cooperation on cyber defense; 3) exchanging
information on the challenges posed by disinformation; and 4) engaging
on Artificial Intelligence through an expert group. 

**Strengthened Resilience:**

Allies at the Vilnius Summit endorsed resilience objectives to ensure
our Alliance will be better prepared against any threat or hazard.  In
May, 2024, the United States hosted Senior National Officials for
Resilience from across the Alliance to advance our mutual cooperation
and information sharing.  Allies, including the United States, are also
preparing first-ever National Resilience Plans.  The U.S. plan builds
off the historic work we’ve already undertaken to strengthen our
national resilience.  NATO leaders in Washington will set forth new
efforts by the Alliance to further enhance national and collective
resilience, including support for NATO’s new defense plans, a commitment
to build awareness and collective resilience among Allies and with
partners, and an increased level of ambition for collaboration.

**Cyber Defense: **

Allies are leveraging NATO more than ever as a platform to share
information about cyber threats in real time, which helps identify those
responsible, mitigate the threat, and lead to appropriate responses.  To
deter attacks from adversaries, Allies have committed to secure
classified NATO information by only using trusted vendors.  For the
first time, select NATO Partners participated in this year’s NATO Cyber
Defense Pledge Conference.  Partners shared best practices and lessons
learned in protecting national infrastructure from cyber threats. 
Together as Allies, we are strengthening our ability to detect, prevent,
and respond to malicious cyber activities both on NATO systems and
across the Alliance.  At Vilnius, Allies revamped the NATO Cyber Defense
Pledge to establish new minimum cybersecurity practices.  In Washington,
Allies will announce the creation of a new integrated cyber defense
center that enhances our integrated situational awareness and better
positions the Alliance to identify and address vulnerabilities anywhere
in the Alliance.    

**Advancing the Women, Peace and Security Agenda Across NATO’s Core
Tasks:**

To further the Women, Peace and Security (WPS) agenda across NATO’s core
tasks and missions, Allies undertook a revision of NATO’s 2018 policy to
address and build on NATO’s long-standing commitment to WPS that will be
announced at the Washington Summit.  The updated policy integrates new
security threats, including technology-facilitated gender-based violence
and the misuse of new and emerging technologies, climate security, and
conflict-related sexual violence, and also notes Russia’s war of
aggression against Ukraine and the threats it poses specifically to
women on the frontlines of the conflict.  At the Washington Summit,
Allies will also announce historic contributions through the
Comprehensive Assistance Package (CAP) to provide women’s body armor,
boots, and uniforms to the Ukrainian armed services to further NATO’s
non-lethal support to Ukraine and commitment to supporting women’s full
and equal participation in defense and security.  This will mark the
first time Allies have directed resources through CAP to advance Women,
Peace, and Security objectives.

**Combatting Terrorism and Addressing Challenges Beyond NATO’s Southern
Flank: **

NATO’s 2022 Strategic Concept identifies terrorism as NATO’s most direct
asymmetric threat.  Allies in Vilnius updated NATO’s Counterterrorism
guidelines to ensure NATO is addressing today’s terrorism threats.  To
better understand the threats and challenges emanating from NATO’s
southern neighborhood, particularly the Middle East, North Africa and
Sahel regions, Allies will continue to review of existing and emerging
threats and challenges. Additionally, NATO’s new family of plans ensures
deterrence, defense, and readiness for the Alliance to respond to this
wide range of evolving threats.

\###
