---
date: '2024-07-29'
modified_time: 2024-07-29 10:46:58-04:00
published_time: 2024-07-29 10:46:57-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/07/29/fact-sheet-white-house-announces-new-private-sector-investments-in-american-maritime-industries-due-to-biden-harris-administration-efforts/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: White\_House Announces New Private Sector Investments in American\
  \ Maritime Industries Due to Biden-\u2060Harris Administration\_Efforts"
---
 
The Biden-Harris Administration is committed to supporting the entire
American shipbuilding supply chain and enhancing the security of the
global maritime environment through collaboration with our allies and
partners. The administration has recently undertaken a variety of
actions on this topic, which have spurred efforts to invest in the
United States from private sector partners around the world.  Through
these government and private sector actions, the administration is
working to support and create good-paying, permanent jobs in the U.S.
shipbuilding sector and to promote U.S. shipbuilding competitiveness.  
  
**Private Sector Investments in American Maritime Industries**  
   
Private sector partners are stepping up with new investments in the U.S.
maritime sector. The following companies plan to expand or establish
their operations in the United States as the result of recent actions by
the Biden-Harris Administration and U.S. allies and partners:  
   
**HD Hyundai:**  In recognition of the Administration’s openness to
working with our nation’s closest allies to strengthen American
shipbuilding, Republic of Korea-based HD-Hyundai, one of the world’s
largest shipbuilders, has committed to accelerate its efforts to support
the U.S. Navy’s shipbuilding program through cooperative initiatives
with U.S. companies and educational and vocational exchange programs,
which will have a positive impact on the defense industrial base and the
broader shipbuilding workforce. The new national [Maritime Statecraft
Initiative](https://www.navy.mil/Press-Office/Press-Releases/display-pressreleases/Article/3539151/secnav-del-toro-calls-for-a-new-bold-maritime-statecraft-in-era-of-intense-stra/)
identified that a robust and skilled workforce trained to meet the
Navy’s shipbuilding requirements is a national security imperative. In
response, HD Hyundai is pursuing educational exchange programs with U.S.
universities on shipbuilding engineering and design – and is considering
a vocational training program focused on welding that will assist these
efforts. The Secretary of the Navy also recently announced a new
educational partnership between HD-Hyundai, the University of Michigan,
and Seoul National University, which will establish a shipbuilding
design and engineering exchange program enabling civilian and Navy
engineers to learn in HD Hyundai’s Korean shipyards. HD-Hyundai also
seeks to pursue joint development and production opportunities with U.S.
partners on current and future programs that will accelerate the sharing
of the expertise, information and capabilities of both countries and
develop pathways for broader shipbuilding collaboration.  
  
**Bollinger Shipyards**: The first and only shipbuilder in the United
States to design and build a heavy polar icebreaker in over 50 years,
Bollinger will play a critical role in [the Icebreaker Collaboration
Effort](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/07/11/biden-harris-administration-announces-new-polar-partnership-ice-pact-alongside-finland-and-canada/),
also known as “ICE Pact”, and its efforts to strengthen the polar
capabilities of the United States and its allies through the creation of
a fleet of polar icebreakers. Bollinger is currently under contract to
build three Polar Security Cutter (PSC) heavy polar icebreakers for the
United States Coast Guard and has invested over $20 million in private
capital in its shipyard. Bollinger was founded in 1946, and is the
largest privately-owned shipyard in the United States. Bollinger has
successfully built several classes of ships for the U.S. Coast Guard and
Navy.  
   
**Davie Shipbuilding: ** As a result of the Biden-Harris Administration
efforts to strengthen the U.S. shipbuilding industry, Davie, Canada’s
largest shipbuilder, intends to make a new long-term commitment to
American shipbuilding. Pending final site and partner selection, this
would include a major investment in a U.S. shipyard. Davie, operating
continuously since 1825 from Quebec, Canada, has delivered over 720
specialized ships. It is currently building the world’s largest
orderbook of heavy icebreakers for ICE Pact partner, Canada. Davie also
owns Helsinki Shipyard in Finland, which has built over 50% of the
world’s icebreaker fleet. Throughout its history, Davie has also
supported American shipbuilders on strategic projects such as the U.S.
Navy Nimitz Class Aircraft Carriers and Arleigh Burke-class destroyers.
Davie seeks to collaborate with U.S. partners to support the growth of
American shipbuilding capacity.  
  
**Konecranes:** In response to the White House-led effort to enhance the
security of the maritime environment, Konecranes, a Finnish-based port
equipment manufacturer, is announcing its plans to establish and grow a
consortium of U.S. partners, including steel structure providers and
other manufacturers, to build ship-to-shore (STS) cranes in the United
States to serve North American ports. This combination of Finnish
expertise and American industrial capacity will continue to position
Konecranes as a global leader in material handling solutions. Konecranes
is committed to growing its workforce in the United States as demand for
cranes produced by trusted vendors increases. Konecranes estimates that
every STS crane built in the United States will require the production
of 1,500 tons of U.S.-made steel and over 100,000 labor hours for the
whole value chain.  
  
**New and Ongoing Government Actions**  
   
The U.S. government has also undertaken recent action to support
American shipbuilding and American shipbuilders. Supporting American
shipbuilding remains a core pillar of the President’s industrial policy
objectives. New and ongoing actions include:

-   On July 25 the **U.S. Maritime Administration** within the U.S.
    Department of Transportation released a fact sheet that outlines the
    Maritime Administration’s grant and financing programs to support
    the U.S. shipbuilding industry and projects both U.S. government and
    commercial demand for American-built vessels over the next decade.
    The fact sheet can be found
    [here](https://www.maritime.dot.gov/outreach/policy-papers-and-fact-sheets/fact-sheet-domestic-shipbuilding-july-2024).  
-   On July 22, the Secretary of the Navy announced the [Michigan
    Maritime Manufacturing
    Initiative](https://www.navy.mil/Press-Office/Press-Releases/display-pressreleases/Article/3845268/secnav-del-toro-announces-michigan-maritime-manufacturing-initiative/)
    to help rebuild the maritime industrial base workforce that the Navy
    needs. This initiative will focus on submarine production skillsets
    before expanding to additional classes of vessels alongside federal,
    state, local, and academic partners.  
-   On July 11, the leaders of the United States, Canada, and Finland
    announced their intent to create the [Icebreaker Collaboration
    Effort](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/07/11/biden-harris-administration-announces-new-polar-partnership-ice-pact-alongside-finland-and-canada/)
    or “ICE Pact” – a trilateral arrangement to collaborate on the
    production of icebreakers, alongside allies and partners, labor, and
    industry. Due to the capital intensity of shipbuilding, long-term,
    multi-ship orderbooks are essential to the success of a shipyard.
    The governments of Canada, Finland, and the United States intend to
    leverage their own shipyards in Canada, Finland, and the United
    States to build polar icebreakers for their own use, as well as
    extend an invitation to allies and partners to purchase polar
    icebreakers for their needs. Over the next six months, the United
    States, Canada, and Finland will develop a trilateral memorandum of
    understanding that will outline a framework for how this arrangement
    is implemented in each country.  
-   On July 10, the U.S. Maritime Administration also announced $8.75
    million in grant awards to 15 small shipyards in 12 states through
    the Small Shipyard Grant program. The funds will help shipyards
    modernize, increase productivity, and expand local job
    opportunities. The full list of awardees can be found
    [here](https://www.maritime.dot.gov/grants-finances/federal-grant-assistance/2024-small-shipyard-grant-awardees).

\###
