---
date: '2024-07-26'
published_time: 2024-07-26 19:05:09-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/07/26/readout-of-maternal-mental-health-hotline-counselors-convening/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Readout of Maternal Mental Health Hotline Counselors\_Convening"
---
 
Today, Domestic Policy Advisor to the Vice President Kristine Lucius and
Heath Resources and Services Administration (HRSA) Administrator Carole
Johnson convened counselors from the Maternal Mental Health Hotline — a
toll-free, confidential hotline that is available 24/7 to respond to the
mental health needs of pregnant women, new moms, their families, and the
communities that support them. 

As the White House marks the [two-year
anniversary](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/07/10/the-white-house-blueprint-for-addressing-the-maternal-health-crisis-two-years-of-progress/)
of Vice President Harris announcing the *[White House Blueprint for
Addressing the Maternal Health
Crisis](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/06/Maternal-Health-Blueprint.pdf),*
this roundtable offered an opportunity to hear directly from 10 of the
Hotline counselors about the ways they provide real-time support,
encouragement, information, and referrals to those in need. These
counselors are licensed mental health clinicians, certified peer
specialists, and health care professionals who are trained in perinatal
mental health practices. Since being launched on Mother’s Day two years
ago, the Hotline has answered more than 40,000 calls and texts. The
Hotline offers bilingual counselors in English and Spanish, as well as
interpreters who support over 60 additional languages.

During today’s conversation, White House officials emphasized the
Biden-Harris Administration’s work to support women during pregnancy and
during the postpartum period. This is especially important because
mental health conditions — including depression, suicide, substance use
disorder, depression, suicide, and birth-related PTSD — are the leading
causes of pregnancy-related death. The Centers for Disease Control (CDC)
estimates that 75% of women with these conditions go untreated, and yet
they are almost entirely preventable. 

Counselors shared that the top three reasons callers contact the Hotline
are feeling overwhelmed, depression, and anxiety. The counselors also
spoke about providing a safe space for callers, greeting callers with
compassion and respect, and reinforcing that “it’s okay to not be okay.”
One participant added that the Hotline is “more than a hotline; it’s a
lifeline.”

The Maternal Mental Health Hotline **(1-833-TLC-MAMA)** was launched as
part of the Biden-Harris Administration’s whole-of-government effort to
combat maternal mortality and morbidity. Led by Vice President Harris,
the effort has focused on reducing disparities in maternal health
outcomes and improving the overall experience of pregnancy, birth, and
postpartum for all women in the United States. 

Vice President Harris has consistently
[led](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/04/13/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-in-a-meeting-on-maternal-health/) on [improving](https://www.c-span.org/video/?510792-1/vice-president-harris-roundtable-black-maternal-health) outcomes
for women and families throughout her career. While serving in the U.S.
Senate, she introduced several landmark bills to address maternal
health, including the Maternal CARE Act and the Black Maternal Health
Momnibus Act. She has built on this work since being sworn in as Vice
President. Two years ago, she called on states to expand Medicaid’s
postpartum coverage from two months to a full year. To date, 46 states
have done so, benefiting women throughout the country.

The Vice President will continue to use her platform to raise public
awareness about the maternal health crisis, including maternal mental
health, and promote resources available to address it.

\# \# \#
