---
date: '2024-07-29'
published_time: 2024-07-29 17:45:12-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/07/29/letter-to-the-speaker-of-the-house-and-president-of-the-senate-on-the-amendment-to-the-agreement-between-the-government-of-the-united-states-of-america-and-the-government-of-the-united-kingdom-of-grea/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Letter to the Speaker of the House and President of the Senate on the Amendment\
  \ to the Agreement Between the Government of the United\_States of America and the\
  \ Government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland for Cooperation\
  \ on the Uses of Atomic Energy for Mutual Defense Purposes of July 3, 1958, as\_\
  Amended"
---
 
Dear Mr. Speaker:   (Dear Madam President:)

I am pleased to transmit to the Congress, pursuant to section 123 d. of
the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended (42 U.S.C. 2153(d)), the text
of an amendment (the “Amendment”) to the Agreement Between the
Government of the United States of America and the Government of the
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland for Cooperation on
the Uses of Atomic Energy for Mutual Defense Purposes of July 3, 1958,
as amended (the “1958 Agreement”). 

I am also pleased to transmit my written approval, authorization, and
determination concerning the Amendment.  The joint memorandum submitted
to me by the Secretaries of Defense and Energy providing their position
on the Amendment is also enclosed.  A separate classified addendum with
additional material is being provided under appropriate security
arrangements.

The Amendment removes the expiration date of certain provisions of the
1958 Agreement that permit the transfer of certain equipment and
material between the United States and the United Kingdom, to enable
broad and enduring cooperation and make all provisions of the 1958
Agreement indefinite in duration. 

The Amendment also clarifies that Article II(A) of the 1958 Agreement
provides for the exchange of atomic information and other related
classified information, controlled unclassified information, technical
data and technology subject to either Party’s export control
requirements, sensitive nuclear technology, and controlled nuclear
information, as is jointly determined to be necessary for the
development of defense plans; the training of personnel in the
employment of defense against atomic weapons; the evaluation of
capabilities of potential enemies in the employment of atomic weapons
and other military applications of atomic energy; the development of
delivery systems compatible with atomic weapons; and the research,
development, or design of military reactors. 

The Amendment’s revisions to Article II(B) of the 1958 Agreement clarify
that these same types of information may be exchanged related to atomic
weapons, including special nuclear materials properties and production
or processing technology, as is determined necessary to improve the
recipient’s atomic weapon design, development, or fabrication
capability.

The Amendment also consolidates reciprocal transfers of equipment,
information, and material associated with naval nuclear propulsion
cooperation, including information designated as naval nuclear
propulsion information in Article III of the 1958 Agreement, and makes
corresponding changes in that Article needed to provide for reciprocity.

The Amendment’s additional revisions to the 1958 Agreement ensure
consistency with the above-described changes as well as current United
States and United Kingdom policies and practices regarding nuclear
threat reduction, naval nuclear propulsion, and the security of the
nuclear security enterprise, including personnel security.

In my judgment, the Amendment meets all statutory requirements.  The
United Kingdom intends to continue to maintain viable nuclear forces
into the foreseeable future.  The provisions of the 1958 Agreement, as
amended by the Amendment, are consistent in every respect with United
States commitments to the United Kingdom regarding the development and
deployment of the United Kingdom TRIDENT Strategic Weapon System,
continued cooperation in nuclear propulsion programs, and support for
the United Kingdom atomic weapon and nuclear threat reduction programs. 

Based on our steadfast partnership with the United Kingdom, and the
United Kingdom’s continued commitment of nuclear forces to the North
Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), I have concluded it is in the
national interest of the United States to continue to assist the United
Kingdom in maintaining a credible nuclear deterrent, which will further
improve our mutual defense posture and support our collective interests
under NATO.

I have considered the views and recommendations of the interested
departments and agencies and have determined that the performance of the
Amendment will promote, and will not constitute an unreasonable risk to,
the common defense and security.  Further, I have approved the program
outlined in the Amendment and have determined that such program will
promote, and will not constitute an unreasonable risk to, the common
defense and security.  Accordingly, I have approved the Amendment,
authorized its execution, and urge that the Congress give it favorable
consideration.

                              Sincerely,

                              JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
