---
date: '2024-07-26'
published_time: 2024-07-26 12:20:58-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/07/26/fact-sheet-implementing-the-national-standards-strategy-for-critical-and-emerging-technology/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Implementing the National Standards Strategy for Critical and\
  \ Emerging\_Technology"
---
 
Today, the Biden-Harris Administration released the Implementation
Roadmap for the U.S. Government’s May 2023 [National Standards Strategy
for Critical and Emerging Technology (USG
NSSCET)](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/07/USG-NSSCET_Implementation_Rdmap_v7_23.pdf).
The roadmap sustains and reinforces the U.S. Government’s commitment to
standards development led by the private sector and enhanced by
partnerships with public institutions and calls for robust engagement in
the standardization of critical and emerging technologies (CETs) to
protect U.S. national and economic security.   
   
Standards are essential to commerce and to the safe, reliable, and
interoperable functioning of a broad array of essential products and
services. Standards help ensure that technologies and parts from many
suppliers work together seamlessly, and facilitate efficient operation
of services and manufacturing while facilitating a competitive
marketplace for goods and services. Standards provide industries and
innovators with a common language that facilitates trade, simplifies
transactions, accelerates innovation, and enables people to work across
disciplines and borders toward common goals.  
   
[Critical and emerging
technologies](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/02/Critical-and-Emerging-Technologies-List-2024-Update.pdf)
have been designated by the Administration as potentially significant to
U.S. national security, including economic security and the defense of
democratic values. Recognizing the strategic value of CETs, our
competitors abroad are seeking to influence international standards
development to their own advantage, placing at risk leadership
opportunities for U.S. innovators and industry and access to quality
products and services that benefit all.  
   
The Implementation Roadmap recommends steps the U.S. Government should
take to realize the objectives of the USG NSSCET. The roadmap is
organized around eight lines of effort for the U.S. Government, with an
understanding that success will require extensive and sustained
coordination with the U.S. private sector and like-minded allies. The
Implementation Roadmap is based on information collected through a
Request for Information, stakeholder engagements, consultations, and
formal recommendations from federal advisory committees including the
National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) Visiting Committee
on Advanced Technology.  
   
The U.S. Government is committed to supporting and upholding private
sector-led standards development processes that are:

-   Built on transparency;
-   Strengthen long-standing public private partnerships; 
-   And, reflect the U.S. commitment to free and fair market competition
    in which the best technologies come to market.

## Approach

The United States is committed to a private sector-led standards system
that is inclusive, diverse, and draws on robust research and innovation.
Through clear actions and effective diplomacy, the Departments of
Commerce and State, together with the Office of the United States Trade
Representative, will continue to work with private sector leadership
including the American National Standards Institute (ANSI) to engage
international partners with an aim to promote this approach globally.  
  
The ANSI administers and coordinates the private sector-led U.S.
voluntary standards and conformity assessment system, while the NIST
coordinates Federal Government engagement in standards activities. The
USG NSSCET complements the United States Standards Strategy (USSS)
published by the ANSI and supports, complements, and further
communicates U.S. Government priorities for CET standards development. 
Through SDOs, the U.S. private sector leads standardization activities
globally to respond to market demand, with substantial contributions
from the U.S. Government, academia, industry, and civil society groups.
Industry associations, consortia, and other private sector groups work
together within this system to develop standards to solve specific
challenges and respond to national priorities.  
  
We also call upon standards stakeholders, including representatives of
industry, start-ups, small- and medium-sized enterprises, the academic
community, and civil society organizations to work with U.S. Government
officials and ANSI on creative solutions to lower barriers, incentivize
greater participation, and protect the integrity of international
standards development through robust investment and engagement. Building
on increased investment in Research and Development (R&D) through
initiatives like the National Artificial Intelligence Research Resource,
the CHIPS and Science Act, and the 21st Century Cures Act, the
Implementation Roadmap focuses on short-term actions and long-term
sustained outcomes that promote global trade, interoperability in
manufacturing, and U.S. competitiveness and innovation through CET
standardization.  
  
In the short-term, the U.S. Government will take immediate action to
include but not limited to:

-   Identifying opportunities to increase U.S. Government
    pre-standardization R&D and standards participation efforts;
-   Tracking and evaluating current U.S. Government CET standards
    education grants and programs that promote, foster, and remove
    barriers to U.S. stakeholder participation in national and
    international standards activities, and;
-   Tracking and evaluating current U.S. Government technology
    cooperation agreements and international mechanisms for
    standards-related communication and cooperation.

For long-term sustained implementation outcomes, the U.S. Government
will take steps to:

-   Enhance standards coordination across the federal government;
-   Enhance standards coordination with the private sector;
-   Enhance standards policy coordination between the U.S. Government
    and foreign governments;
-   Recognize and incentivize federal agency engagement in
    standardization;
-   Provide strong and sustained funding for CET R&D and
    pre-standardization coordination;
-   Engage academia as a critical partner to the private sector in
    standards development efforts;
-   Enhance educational efforts in standards;
-   Develop and sustain communications about standards, and;
-   Remove barriers to participation in standardization.

## A Whole-of-Government Effort

Many U.S. Government organizations are demonstrating their commitment to
implementation through their actions and partnerships. These efforts
signal a broad emphasis across the government aimed at strengthening
U.S. competitiveness, innovation, and national and economic security via
standards-related policies and actions. Examples include:   
  
**The National Institute of Standards and Technology** (NIST)
coordinates Federal agency implementation of standards and
conformity-assessment-related National Technology Transfer and
Advancement Act provisions.  In addition, NIST provides technical
expertise to standards development efforts across the entire science and
technology enterprise, including for critical and emerging technologies.
For example: NIST’s experience in contributing to trust in new
technologies in general, and in AI research in particular, is why it was
among the federal agencies chosen to help fulfill President Biden’s
Executive Order (EO) on Safe, Secure, and Trustworthy Artificial
Intelligence (14110). The deliverables include *A Plan for Global
Engagement on AI Standards,* which recognizes the importance of
technical standards in shaping the development and use of artificial
intelligence.  
  
NIST will establish and operate a **Standardization Center of
Excellence** as a ***public-private partnership*** focusing on four key
areas: Pre-standardization engagement, workforce capacity building, an
information and data sharing hub, and a collaborative pilot program in
CETs.  
  
The CHIPS and Science Act appropriated $50 billion to the **Department
of Commerce’s CHIPS for America program** both to support semiconductor
research and development (R&D) and to expand semiconductor manufacturing
capacity in the United States. A key element in achieving these CHIPS
R&D goals is to accelerate the private sector-led development and
deployment by industry of effective technical standards.  
  
**The U.S. Patent and Trademark Office** (USPTO) is partnering with
foreign partners to forge alliances and collaborate toward enhanced
efficiencies in standards essential patent licensing markets. So far,
the USPTO signed an Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) with the United
Kingdom Intellectual Property Office to this effect on June 3, 2024. It
has also partnered with the World Intellectual Property Organization on
dispute resolution efforts related to standards essential patents.  
  
The **National Telecommunications and Information Administration**
(NTIA) continues to administer the Public Wireless Supply Chain
Innovation Fund, a $1.5 billion grant program funded by the CHIPS and
Science Act of 2022, which aims to catalyze research, development, and
adoption of open, interoperable, standards-based next-generation
wireless networks. NTIA coordinates extensively with the private sector,
U.S. Department of State, and other agency partners to represent the
United States at the International Telecommunication Union.  
  
The **International Trade Administration** (ITA) leverages multilateral
and bilateral fora, dialogues, and partnerships such as the Asia-Pacific
Economic Cooperation and the U.S.-E.U. Trade and Technology Council to
engage like-minded nations in promoting the use of international
standards and best practices for the development of standards for
emerging technologies. Additionally, ITA employs Digital, Standards, and
Intellectual Property Attachés in key foreign markets to increase U.S.
exports by helping U.S. companies access the global marketplace and
navigate foreign regulatory issues.  These Attachés play a critical role
in ensuring that U.S. companies remain competitive globally and that
foreign markets have access to the high-quality products and services
that U.S. industries provide.   
  
**The Department of State** launched a project to support an
international standards development process grounded in transparency,
private sector leadership and public sector support, and diverse
stakeholder engagement. The project will also enhance like-minded
nations’ representation and expand the number of countries that are
aligned with U.S. Government vision, thus creating greater leadership in
international standards governance by the United States. In addition,
this project will assist participant countries in adopting international
standards for domestic policies and laws.  
  
  
**The Department of Defense** (DoD) engages with ANSI and the private
sector in collaborative standards activities such as the Alliance for
Telecommunications Industry Solutions and the 3rd Generation Partnership
Project (3GPP). In the context of the North Atlantic Trade Agreement
(NATO) and other multinational organizations, the DoD experts routinely
engage with personnel from over 70 countries on standardization matters
related to national defense requirements, including participation in
Standards Developing Organizations (SDO) activities, development of
standardization policy and implementing standards to support defense
capability and interoperability requirements.  
  
**The Department of Transportation** (U.S. DOT) has many engagements
across a diverse and complex spectrum of regulatory and technical
standardization activities including within CETs such as
automation/autonomy and complementary Positioning, Navigation, and
Timing (PNT).  U.S DOT  will continue to support advancement of
standards benefitting safe, efficient, and interoperable transportation
in cooperation with public and private sector stakeholder communities.
For example, the Intelligent Transportation Systems (ITS) Program
supports both private and public sector stakeholder participation in
standards activities via multiple SDOs including SAE International,
IEEE, the Institute for Transportation Engineers (ITE), ISO and others,
including facilitating multi-SDO cooperation on multiple topics,
including the Connected Transportation Interoperability (CTI) family of
standards.  
  
**The U.S. Department of Energy** (DOE) has a long history of leadership
in international standardization efforts to accelerate the adoption of
transformative science and technology solutions to energy,
environmental, and nuclear challenges. Technical experts at DOE and its
17 National Laboratories provide critical input to new standards in
areas ranging from hydrogen and energy storage, to biotechnology,
artificial intelligence, and high-performance computing (HPC). DOE’s
experts work alongside participants from all over the world toward
standards that are consistent with U.S. values and informed by the
latest scientific and technological advancements. DOE’s continued
investments support the USG NSSCET through research, development, and
demonstration (RD&D) and participation and workforce. DOE recognizes
that standardization can accelerate the adoption of transformative
science and technology solutions that are key to the success of its
mission.  
  
**The U.S. National Science Foundation (NSF)** revised its *Proposal and
Award Policies and Procedures Guide (PAPPG)* governing submission,
review, and oversight of all proposals and awards to now explicitly
encourage researchers’ “participation in national and/or international
standards development efforts” as an example of the broader impacts of
the funding agency’s investments in the nation’s research and innovation
ecosystem. Relatedly, through the “CHIPS and Science Act of 2022,” NSF’s
new Directorate for Technology, Innovation and Partnerships is charged
with investing in new pathways for translating research results to
practice, and is considering steps toward one such pathway that would
enable researchers to mature their technological and related innovations
to inform standards development.  
  
**The Federal Bureau of Investigation** (FBI) engages with domestic and
international government partners, the private sector, academia, and
non-government organizations to further public safety standards
activities in groups such as the International Telecommunications Union
(ITU), Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (ICANN), and
3rd Generation Partnership Project (3GPP). Technical and policy experts
at the FBI serve as members, consultants, and in leadership roles in the
Standards Development Organizations (SDO) and regularly contribute
public safety perspectives across a broad range of activities from
emergency and law enforcement communications networks to stemming the
flow of counterfeit devices to tackling domain name system (DNS) abuse.

\###
