---
date: '2024-07-11'
modified_time: 2024-07-10 16:24:26-04:00
published_time: 2024-07-11 06:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/07/11/fact-sheet-united-states-welcomes-growing-contributions-to-global-security-from-natos-indo-pacific-partners/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: United\_States Welcomes Growing Contributions to Global Security\
  \ from NATO\u2019s Indo-Pacific\_Partners"
---
 
The United States warmly welcomes attendance by NATO’s Indo-Pacific
Partners (IPP) Australia, Japan, New Zealand, and the Republic of Korea
(ROK) at the NATO Summit in Washington, DC, which celebrates 75 years of
the most successful and enduring Alliance in history.  Since taking
office, President Biden has worked to strengthen the critical ties
between our NATO Allies and NATO partners in the Indo-Pacific. This is
the third consecutive NATO summit where Indo-Pacific Partners join NATO
Allies at the highest levels.

As Russia’s war of aggression against Ukraine has demonstrated, the
threats and challenges we face are interconnected. Developments in one
region directly affect security and economic stability in other regions.
For instance, the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea (DPRK) has
provided ballistic missiles and munitions to Russia for use against
Ukraine, in clear violation of multiple United Nations Security Council
resolutions. At the same time, during Putin’s recent visit to Pyongyang,
Russia and the DPRK committed to increasing their military and economic
cooperation. Russia continues to supply the DPRK with refined petroleum
beyond what is permitted by U.N. Security Council resolutions and
blocked the renewal of a U.N. sanctions monitoring panel, each of which
undermine peace and security in the Indo-Pacific. The People’s Republic
of China (PRC)’s ongoing support for Russia’s defense industrial base
also enables Russia to reconstitute its war machine and maintain its
illegal war against Ukraine.

In response to Russia’s war against Ukraine, the United States has built
a global coalition of countries around the world – including the IPP –
that have stepped up to make historic contributions to support Ukraine
as it defends its freedom and the principles of sovereignty and
territorial integrity enshrined in the UN Charter. The IPP countries
have also added their voices to the chorus of countries working with
Ukraine to secure a just and lasting peace because they recognize how
much is at stake.

Beyond these issues, IPP countries also provide critical expertise and
experience as NATO works to address transnational challenges. At the
NATO Summit this year, NATO and the IPP are enhancing practical
cooperation through new flagship projects in the areas of support to
Ukraine, cyber defense, countering hostile information including
disinformation, and technology. NATO Allies and IPP countries are also
engaging in regular discussion about the growing relationship between
Russia and the DPRK.

NATO’s partnerships across the globe, including its relationships with
the IPP, are crucial to addressing shared and interconnected challenges,
as they allow NATO and its partners to share expertise and information
about global issues that affect our collective security and stability.
 In the context of an interconnected threat environment, which features
a deepening Russia-DPRK military partnership and PRC support for
Russia’s defense industrial base, NATO benefits from exchanging
expertise and experiences with partners in the Indo-Pacific.

By supporting Ukraine, increasing defense spending, and through the
development of individual NATO partnerships with IPP countries,
Indo-Pacific Partners are strongly investing in global security.

**Support to Ukraine**

*Australia*

The Australian Government has been a vital contributor to Euro-Atlantic
security through provision of military and humanitarian assistance to
Ukraine. The Australian Government has committed over AUD 1.1 billion to
Ukraine since March 2022, including AUD 880 million in military and AUD
85 million in humanitarian assistance. This includes ongoing
contributions by the Australian Defence Force to multinational efforts
to train Ukrainian personnel in the United Kingdom and support of
partners’ efforts in Europe via embedded personnel. Australia has also
helped protect a vital gateway for international assistance to Ukraine
through its six-month deployment of an E-7A Wedgetail airborne early
warning aircraft that concluded in April 2024. Additionally, the
Government has imposed a suite of measures against Russia, including
over 1,200 targeted sanctions. Australia has been steadfast in
supporting Ukraine’s sovereignty and territorial integrity, upholding
the UN Charter, international law, and the rules-based order.

*Japan*

Japan has been a prominent supporter of Ukraine ever since the outbreak
of aggression. Japan’s contribution in the G7, shown especially in the
G7 Hiroshima Summit last year, has also been significant. In February,
Japan conducted the Japan-Ukraine Conference for Promotion of Economic
Growth and Reconstruction. In June, Japan signed the Accord on Support
for Ukraine and Cooperation between the government of Japan and Ukraine
as the first non-Atlantic country to sign such a document.  Since March
2022, Japan has committed to provide Ukraine with financial,
humanitarian, and other assistance worth a total value of over $12
billion, including $4.5 billion support for 2024.

Further, since May 2023, Japan has delivered 101 vehicles to Ukraine, in
addition to provisions of emergency rations, helmets, protective
clothing, and other equipment.  Japan announced $67 million to the NATO
Comprehensive Assistance Package for Ukraine that will provide
counter-unmanned aircraft detection systems and other gear. In light of
Ukraine’s urgent need for additional energy infrastructure, Japan has
also provided two large autotransformers, five gas turbine generators,
and transportation support for seven autotransformers.

In the area of humanitarian mine action, Japan has been a prominent
donor and co-chair of the Sectoral Working Group on Humanitarian
Demining in Ukraine. Japan is also in the process of providing large
Japanese-made demining machines, which will begin delivery in July 2024.
 Japan will also host an international conference on Ukraine mine action
next year.

*New Zealand*

In February, New Zealand announced an additional $15.8 million package
of support for Ukraine. This included an extension of New Zealand
Defense Forces (NZDF) deployment to the United Kingdom and across Europe
until June 2025.  NZDF personnel continue to train Ukrainian soldiers,
and provide intelligence, liaison, and logistics support.  Additionally,
New Zealand has imposed sanctions on more than 1,700 individuals and
entities since the Russia Sanctions Act entered into force in March
2022.  New Zealand announced new funding for medical rehabilitation and
drones on July 10, 2024, as well as new humanitarian assistance.  New
Zealand’s total $79.5 million in pledged support to date includes $50.8
million in military assistance, $19.5 million in humanitarian assistance
to Ukrainian communities in Ukraine and neighboring countries; and $3.19
million for international legal processes and human rights monitoring. 

*Republic of Korea*

The ROK provided $100 million in humanitarian aid to Ukraine in 2022 and
has pledged $150 million in short-term aid in 2023; $300 million in
short-term aid for 2024; and $2 billion in long-term, low-interest loans
via the Economic Development Cooperation Fund beginning in 2025.  The
ROK also pledged to donate 200 total 450kW generators to support
Ukraine’s energy sector. In June, the ROK contributed $12 million to the
NATO Comprehensive Assistance Package for Ukraine that will support the
Military Medical Clinical Treatment Rehabilitation Centre Project.

**Defense Spending**

As NATO Allies are working aggressively towards their 2 percent defense
spending targets, IPP partners are investing in their own defense, and
in doing so strengthening deterrence in the Euro-Atlantic and
Indo-Pacific.  This includes Australia’s recent decision to increase
defense spending to 2.3 percent of GDP by 2033, Japan’s 17 percent
increase in defense spending in fiscal year 2024 and its fiscal year
2027 target of increasing the budget for its defense capabilities and
complementary initiatives to 2 percent of GDP, and the Republic of
Korea’s 4.2 percent increase in defense spending over the prior year.

*Australia*

Australia continues to ensure its national security and defense
requirements are resourced to align with the quickly evolving
international security and threat landscape.  Aside from current
spending of approximately 2 percent of GDP on defense, the Australian
government recently announced a significant increase in defense spending
to 2.3 percent of GDP by 2033.  Australia has allocated AUD 765 billion
to defense spending over the next decade.

*Japan*

Japan’s 7.72 trillion JPY overall defense budget for fiscal year 2024
contained a 17 percent increase over the previous year. Japan remains on
course to meet the government’s target of increasing the budget for its
defense capabilities and complementary initiatives to two percent of its
2022 GDP by Japan’s fiscal year 2027.

*New Zealand*

New Zealand is currently developing its Defense Capability Plan, which
will signal the Government’s capability intentions for Defense until
2040. In the interim, in May 2024, Defense Minister Judith Collins KC
announced $344 million of new funding over four years, including $98
million for personnel remuneration and $245 million for upgrading
equipment and infrastructure.  This will fund the beginning of the
Army’s Unimog and Pinzgauer truck replacement project, the next phase of
NH90 helicopter navigation systems and radio upgrades, a Linton Military
Camp supply facilities and logistics upgrade, and other upgrades.  The
truck replacement would enhance interoperability with regional and
global partners.

*Republic of Korea*

The ROK’s 2024 defense budget totaled $44.45 billion and marked a 4.2
percent increase from the year before (outpacing the national budget
increase of 2.8 percent). The ROK maintains a stable ratio around 2.5%
in defense spending against GDP. The ROK’s defense budget places an
emphasis on Defense Innovation 4.0 goals, with a 4.4 percent boost to
Force Improvement Programs (FIP).  The budget also plans to revitalize
the Three-Axis System to counter DPRK WMD and ballistic missile threats,
build a robust manned-unmanned composite system based on artificial
intelligence, and improve service conditions for junior-grade and
non-commissioned officers.

**Individual Partnerships with NATO**

*Australia*

NATO and Australia have been engaged in dialogue and cooperation since
2005, and Australia has been a leading contributor to NATO missions
around the world for two decades.

In a joint political declaration in June 2012, NATO and Australia
signaled their commitment to strengthening cooperation.  Since
formalizing cooperation through a NATO-Australia Individual Partnership
and Cooperation Program in 2013, this cooperation has undertaken
different iterations. Approved in July 2023, the NATO-Australia
relationship is now guided by the *NATO-Australia Individually Tailored
Partnership Programme for 2023-26*.

Priorities in NATO-Australia relations include upholding agreed norms,
rules and standards; promoting mutual understanding of global security
issues; enhancing interoperability between NATO and Australia; and
engaging on issues of common interest, including cyber defense, hybrid
threats, Women Peace and Security, space, and science and technology. 
Australia also participates in NATO Mission Iraq and Operation Sea
Guardian as an operational partner.

*Japan*

NATO and Japan have been engaged in dialogue and cooperation since
initial contacts in the early 1990s.

NATO and Japan signaled their commitment to strengthening cooperation in
a joint political declaration signed in April 2013. From 2014, work was
taken forward through a NATO-Japan Individual Partnership and
Cooperation Program. That cooperation is now guided by an ITPP that NATO
and Japan approved in July 2023.

Practical cooperation is being developed in a wide range of areas,
including cyber defense, strategic communication, maritime security,
emergency management and disaster relief, non-proliferation, science and
technology, Women, Peace and Security and human security.

*New Zealand*

New Zealand has a more than 25-year history of cooperation with NATO,
including contributing to NATO operations in Bosnia-Herzegovina and
Afghanistan. Since 2012, work has been taken forward through an
Individual Partnership and Cooperation Program.  In 2024, New Zealand
and NATO concluded an Individually Tailored Partnership Program, which
now serves as the basis for bilateral cooperation.

NATO and New Zealand cooperate in areas of common interest, including
science and technology; cyber defense; and climate change and security.

*Republic of Korea*

NATO and the Republic of Korea have been engaged in dialogue and
cooperation since 2005.

In 2012, cooperation between NATO and the Republic of Korea was
initially taken forward through an Individual Partnership and
Cooperation Program. Currently, the cooperation is guided by an
Individually Tailored Partnership Program that NATO and the Republic of
Korea agreed in July 2023.

In November 2022, the Republic of Korea established a Diplomatic Mission
to NATO, enhancing opportunities for political dialogue with the
Alliance. The Republic of Korea is also a champion of Women, Peace, and
Security—a shared priority with NATO Allies and partners.

Political dialogue and practical cooperation are being developed across
priority areas, including non-proliferation, cyber defense, science and
technology, counterterrorism, interoperability, and defense against
chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear (CBRN) agents.

\###
