---
date: '2024-07-01'
published_time: 2024-07-01 17:08:32-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/07/01/a-proclamation-on-the-60th-anniversary-of-the-civil-rights-act/
tags: statements-releases
title: "A Proclamation on the 60th Anniversary of the Civil Rights\_Act"
---
 
     Sixty years ago, President Lyndon B. Johnson signed into law one of
the most significant pieces of civil rights legislation in history — the
Civil Rights Act of 1964.  It prohibited discrimination on the basis of
race, color, religion, sex, or national origin.  That day, our Nation
moved closer to our North Star, the founding ideal of America:  We are
all created equal and deserve to be treated equally throughout our
lives.  We have never fully lived up to that idea, but we have never
walked away from it either.  On this anniversary, we promise we will not
walk away from it now.

     On July 2, 1964, when President Johnson signed the Civil Rights
Act, a crowd gathered behind him.  Among them were some of the Black
leaders and activists who had led the movement that made it possible: 
Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., A. Philip Randolph, Dr. Dorothy Height, and
others, who had fought, protested, and prayed for this moment.  It was
the work of changemakers like them — from the countless protests,
sit-ins, and marches they organized to the many speeches and sermons
they gave — and the courageous activism and participation of everyday
Americans that brought the bill to President Johnson’s desk.  It was an
answer to President John F. Kennedy’s call for national action to
guarantee the equal treatment of every American regardless of race. 
Change only rippled out from there:  The Civil Rights Act of 1964 also
helped set the foundation for other critical legislation like the Voting
Rights Act of 1965.  

     The legacies of those activists and extraordinary Americans have
had a profound impact on me and others of my generation.  It inspired me
to become a public defender and then a county councilman, working to
change our State’s politics to embrace the cause of civil rights.  Their
efforts made us fundamentally better as Americans, opening the doors of
opportunity wider and bringing our Nation closer to its promise of
liberty, equality, and justice for all. 

     Despite this critical step forward, securing our civil rights
remains the unfinished fight of our time.  Our country is still facing
attacks to some of our most fundamental civil liberties and rights,
including the right to vote and have that vote counted and the right to
live free from the threat of violence, hate, and discrimination.  That
is why my Administration is remaining vigilant — fighting actively to
protect the rights of every American.  I signed the Electoral Count
Reform Act to protect the will of the people and the peaceful transfer
of power.  I appointed Justice Ketanji Brown Jackson, the first Black
woman to be on the Supreme Court, and have appointed more Black women to
the Federal appellate court than every other President in history. 

     We are also working to reverse the shameful legacy of segregation
in our country and creating new opportunities for every American to
thrive.  My Administration is investing more money than ever in Black
families and Black communities.  We are reconnecting historic business
districts and neighborhoods cut off by old highways, redlining, and
decades of discrimination and disinvestment.  We have invested over $16
billion in Historically Black Colleges and Universities, which will help
raise the next generation of Black leaders.  At the same time, we are
creating good-paying jobs that people can raise a family on; making
capital and loans for starting small businesses and buying homes more
accessible; and making health insurance and prescription drugs more
affordable.  I also signed the boldest policing reform Executive Order
in history.  My Administration is changing our Nation’s failed approach
to marijuana, which disproportionately impacts communities of color.  I
have used executive clemency more than any recent President at this
point in my Presidency in pursuit of justice and fairness.  And I
continue to call on the Congress to pass the John Lewis Voting Rights
Advancement Act and the Freedom to Vote Act — it is the only way to
fully secure the sacred right to vote.

     On this anniversary, may we recommit to continuing the work that
the Civil Rights Act began six decades ago — it is still the task of our
time to build a democracy where every American is treated with dignity
and has an equal opportunity to follow their dreams.  We must continue
to move forward together, stand with one another, and choose democracy
over autocracy and beloved community over chaos.  We must choose to be
believers, dreamers, and doers.  

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim July
2, 2024, as the 60th Anniversary of the Civil Rights Act.  I call upon
all Americans to observe this day with programs, ceremonies, and
activities that celebrate this accomplishment and advance civil rights
in our time.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
first day of July, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-four, and
of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-eighth.  
   
   
                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
