---
date: '2024-07-29'
modified_time: 2024-07-29 18:00:44-04:00
published_time: 2024-07-29 18:00:43-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/07/29/readout-of-white-house-convening-on-the-60th-anniversary-of-title-vii-of-the-civil-rights-act/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Readout of White\_House Convening on the 60th Anniversary of Title VII of\
  \ the Civil Rights\_Act"
---
 
Today, to commemorate the 60th anniversary of Title VII of the Civil
Rights Act, Director of the Gender Policy Council Jennifer Klein,
Domestic Policy Advisor Neera Tanden, Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission (EEOC) Chair Charlotte A. Burrows, and U.S. EEOC Vice Chair
Jocelyn Samuels convened civil rights leaders and stakeholders to
discuss the importance of this landmark law in ensuring equal
opportunity and combatting employment discrimination in the workplace.
The convening took place as the President traveled to the Lyndon B.
Johnson Presidential Library to underscore the Administration’s [strong
record](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/07/29/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-commemorates-the-60th-anniversary-of-the-civil-rights-act-of-1964-and-uplifts-commitment-to-protecting-the-civil-rights-of-all-americans/)
on—and deep commitment to—protecting the civil rights of all Americans. 

Senior Biden-Harris Administration officials discussed the progress that
has been made thanks to the protections put in place by Title VII—which
prohibits workplace discrimination on the basis of race, color,
religion, sex, or national origin and has served as a model for other
bedrock civil rights laws—as well as the law’s creation of the EEOC.
Since the EEOC [opened its doors in
1965](https://www.eeoc.gov/title-vii-civil-rights-act-1964-requiring-discrimination-free-workplaces-60-years),
the agency has brought more than 10,000 Title VII lawsuits on behalf of
American workers and recovered more than $11 billion for victims of
discrimination. Senior officials also highlighted broader Biden-Harris
Administration actions to support workers and champion workplace
equality—including the President’s signing of new bipartisan laws to
protect pregnant and postpartum workers and strengthen protections
against sexual assault and harassment in the workplace, and new rules to
help close gender and racial wage gaps for federal workers.

During the convening, Congresswoman Eleanor Holmes-Norton, the first
woman appointed to chair the EEOC, discussed the history and legacy of
Title VII and the law’s importance in leveling the playing field to make
workplaces more equitable. Participants also heard from Celeste Lansdale
Brodigan and Imani Stewart —two courageous women whose Title VII
complaints, though filed decades apart, helped shed light on sex and
race discrimination in the workplace and continue to pave the way for
future litigants.

Participants discussed the importance of Title VII in opening doors for
women, people of color, and other underrepresented groups and the need
to continue building on Title VII’s protections as Congress has over
time through the Pregnancy Discrimination Act, the Lilly Ledbetter Fair
Pay Act and, most recently, the Pregnant Workers Fairness Act.
Participants also highlighted opportunities for continued progress in
creating pathways to good jobs and ensuring workplaces free from
discrimination. 

\###
