---
date: '2024-07-29'
modified_time: 2024-07-29 13:04:27-04:00
published_time: 2024-07-29 13:04:26-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/07/29/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-commemorates-the-60th-anniversary-of-the-civil-rights-act-of-1964-and-uplifts-commitment-to-protecting-the-civil-rights-of-all-americans/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Commemorates the 60th Anniversary\
  \ of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and Uplifts Commitment to Protecting the Civil\
  \ Rights of all\_Americans"
---
 
Sixty years ago, on July 2, 1964, President Lyndon B. Johnson signed the
[Civil Rights Act of
1964](https://www.archives.gov/milestone-documents/civil-rights-act)
(“the Act”)—the most significant piece of civil rights legislation in
our Nation’s history since Reconstruction. The Act outlawed segregation
in business establishments, public schools, and other public places and
prohibited discrimination on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, or
national origin in employment. The Act also established the Equal
Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC). Despite the significant
social, economic, and racial progress made since passage of the Act,
efforts to roll back our country’s promise of equal opportunity and
fundamental rights persist.

Today, President Biden will speak at the Lyndon B. Johnson Presidential
Library to [commemorate the 60th anniversary of the signing of the
Act](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/07/01/a-proclamation-on-the-60th-anniversary-of-the-civil-rights-act/)
and highlight his deep commitment to advancing civil rights for all
Americans. Since day one, the Biden-Harris Administration has acted to
ensure the promise of the Act is a reality for all communities. The
Administration has made historic investments to build capacity for
robust and proactive enforcement of civil rights laws, securing more
than $2 billion in total funding for Offices of Civil Rights across the
federal government. Under the Biden-Harris Administration, annual
funding for federal civil rights offices has increased by 23 percent.

President Biden also issued [two first-of-their-kind Executive
Orders](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/equity/) to advance racial equity and
support for underserved communities because he recognizes that—although
the ideal of equal opportunity is the bedrock of American democracy—our
laws, public policies, and institutions too often exacerbate disparities
or deny equal opportunity to individuals and communities. Over the past
three and a half years, the Biden-Harris Administration has taken bold
action to ensure the full and fair participation of all communities in
American life and has delivered results through a whole-of-government
equity agenda to redress systemic barriers, reduce burdens, and close
unjust gaps.

To mark the Act’s anniversary, the White House Council of Economic
Advisers (CEA) released [*Racial Discrimination in Contemporary
America*](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/cea/written-materials/2024/07/03/racial-discrimination-in-contemporary-america/),
an issue brief that describes evidence of ongoing racial bias faced by
renters, workers, and business owners that contributes to disparities in
housing, employment, and lending. CEA’s findings underscore that
differential treatment by race remains pervasive, even in modern-day
American society, and has a meaningful economic impact on the lives of
everyday people across the country. Today, reinforcing the importance of
the Biden-Harris Administration’s equity agenda, the Chief Economist of
the White House Investing In America Cabinet also published a [blog
post](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/blog/2024/07/29/how-investing-in-equity-fosters-of-the-goals-of-investing-in-america/)
describing how investing in equity empowers workers, boosts
productivity, and fosters stronger economic growth.

Additionally, today, the White House and EEOC hosted a convening to
commemorate Title VII of the Act, which prohibits discrimination in
employment. Participants discussed the legacy and importance of Title
VII in advancing equality in workplaces, including closing gender-based
employment disparities, and the work ahead to ensure the promise of
Title VII for all.

The Biden-Harris Administration is committed to upholding the Civil
Rights Act of 1964, ensuring that all communities live with dignity, are
free from discrimination, and have equal access to opportunity in the
foundational pillars of American public life­—education, housing, and
employment.

**Advancing educational equity and tackling segregation in America’s
schools**

Every student deserves access to a high-quality public education that is
free from segregation, social isolation, and inequality. In May, on the
70<sup>th</sup> anniversary of the landmark Supreme Court decision in
*Brown v. Board of Education*, the Biden-Harris Administration
[announced new
actions](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/05/17/fact-sheet-president-biden-announces-new-actions-to-advance-racial-and-educational-equity-on-70th-anniversary-of-brown-v-board-of-education/#:~:text=Board%20of%20Education%20(Brown)%20decision,students%20have%20access%20to%20a)
to support school diversity and advance the goal that all students have
access to a world-class education.

-   **Upholding the civil rights of students.** On the 60<sup>th</sup>
    anniversary of the Act, the Department of Education’s (ED) Office
    for Civil Rights (OCR) released a [fact
    sheet](https://www2.ed.gov/about/offices/list/ocr/docs/ocr-factsheet-race-color-national-origin-202407.pdf)
    to provide information about schools’ federal civil rights
    obligations under Title VI of the Act to promptly and effectively
    address alleged acts of discrimination, including harassment based
    on race, color, or national origin. This resource adds to the many
    other Title VI policy resources that OCR has released during this
    Administration. For example, in May 2023, OCR and the Department of
    Justice’s (DOJ) Civil Rights Division published a [Resource on
    Confronting Racial Discrimination in Student
    Discipline](https://www2.ed.gov/about/offices/list/ocr/docs/tvi-student-discipline-resource-202305.pdf),
    which describes how ED and DOJ, under Title VI and Title IV,
    resolved investigations involving discrimination against Black,
    Latino, and/or Native American students in schools’ use of
    out-of-school suspensions, expulsions, school-based arrests,
    referrals to law enforcement, involuntary discipline transfers,
    informal removals, and other disciplinary actions. OCR also
    published
    [guidance](https://www.ed.gov/news/press-releases/new-guidance-helps-schools-support-students-disabilities-and-avoid-discriminatory-use-discipline)
    in July 2022 to help public elementary and secondary schools support
    students with disabilities and avoid the discriminatory use of
    student discipline under Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of
    1973.

<!-- -->

-   **Ensuring America’s classrooms serve every student.** In September
    2023, OCR appointed a Coordinator to address the rising number of
    book bans across the country that seek to erase history from our
    classrooms. In a [blog
    post](https://blog.ed.gov/2024/07/book-bans-are-not-just-bad-policy-they-can-raise-civil-rights-issues/)
    published today, the Coordinator discussed how book bans, which
    disproportionately target works written by or about members of the
    LGBTQI+ community and people of color, may create a hostile school
    environment and violate federal civil rights laws. In August 2023,
    OCR released a [Dear Colleague Letter on Race and School
    Programming](https://www2.ed.gov/about/offices/list/ocr/letters/colleague-20230824.pdf)
    that clarifies the circumstances under which schools can—consistent
    with Title VI of the Act and its implementing regulations—develop
    programs or engage in activities that promote racially inclusive
    school communities. OCR also published a [fact
    sheet](https://www2.ed.gov/about/offices/list/ocr/docs/ocr-factsheet-tvi-dia-202301.pdf)
    in January 2023 to assist school communities in understanding that
    diversity, equity, and inclusion training and similar activities in
    most circumstances are consistent with Title VI.  

<!-- -->

-   **Investing in school diversity efforts.** In 2023, ED released [a
    report](https://www2.ed.gov/rschstat/eval/resources/diversity.pdf)
    on the state of school diversity in the U.S., showing that schools
    that are isolated along racial or socioeconomic lines often have
    less access to critical resources and funding. To help address this
    issue, the Administration secured a $15 million increase to the
    [Magnet Schools Assistance Program
    (MSAP)](https://oese.ed.gov/offices/office-of-discretionary-grants-support-services/school-choice-improvement-programs/magnet-school-assistance-program-msap/),
    providing $139 million to establish magnet programs designed to
    further desegregate public schools by attracting students from
    different social, economic, ethnic, and racial backgrounds. In
    addition, ED awarded $14 million to help support local- and
    state-driven voluntary efforts to foster more diverse school
    communities through the first-ever [Fostering Diverse Schools
    Demonstration
    Program](https://oese.ed.gov/offices/office-of-discretionary-grants-support-services/school-choice-improvement-programs/fostering-diverse-schools-program-fdsp/).
    ED also issued a [new
    rule](https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2022/07/06/2022-14445/final-priorities-requirements-definitions-and-selection-criteria-expanding-opportunity-through)
    requiring, among other things, many Charter School Program
    applicants to assure that proposed charter schools would not
    negatively affect any desegregation efforts in the communities in
    which charters are to be located.

<!-- -->

-   **Protecting students from predatory higher education practices.**
    Today, OCR and ED’s Office of Federal Student Aid (FSA) entered into
    an [intra-agency
    agreement](https://www2.ed.gov/about/offices/list/ocr/docs/agreement-ocr-fsa.pdf)
    as part of ED’s ongoing efforts to address predatory and
    discriminatory practices in higher education. Specifically, the
    agreement outlines how OCR and FSA will share information and
    coordinate enforcement related to investigations or compliance
    reviews that involve allegations of racial or national origin
    discrimination in matters related to recruitment, admissions, and
    financial aid.

<!-- -->

-   **Fighting for equal access to higher education.** In June 2024, to
    mark the one-year anniversary of the Supreme Court’s ruling in
    *Students for Fair Admissions*, which struck down affirmative action
    in college admissions practices, Secretary Cardona issued a
    [statement](https://www.ed.gov/news/press-releases/secretary-cardona-statement-ahead-one-year-anniversary-supreme-court-ruling-college-affirmative-action-programs)
    reaffirming the Administration’s commitment to fighting for
    educational opportunity for all of our Nation’s students. In August
    2023, ED and DOJ jointly issued a [Dear Colleague
    Letter](https://www2.ed.gov/about/offices/list/ocr/letters/colleague-20230814.pdf)
    and a [Questions and
    Answers](https://www2.ed.gov/about/offices/list/ocr/docs/ocr-questionsandanswers-tvi-20230814.pdf?utm_content=&utm_medium=email&utm_name=&utm_source=govdelivery&utm_term=)
    resource to help colleges and universities understand the Supreme
    Court’s decision as they continue to pursue campuses that are
    racially diverse and include students with a range of viewpoints,
    talents, backgrounds, and experiences.

**Addressing systemic discrimination and reducing gaps in America’s
housing market**

[A safe, affordable, and fairly-priced
home](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/03/11/fact-sheet-the-presidents-budget-cuts-housing-costs-boosts-supply-and-expands-access-to-affordable-housing/)
in a neighborhood with access to opportunities should be available to
all Americans.There are more Black and Latino homeowners today than when
President Biden took office—reducing homeownership gaps and driving
significant gains in wealth in communities of color.

-   **Combatting racial bias in home appraisals.** The President’s
    first-of-its-kind Interagency Task Force on Property Appraisal and
    Valuation Equity (PAVE) has made [critical
    progress](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/04/12/fact-sheet-president-biden-announces-key-progress-on-efforts-to-close-the-racial-wealth-gap/)
    towards rooting out racial bias in the home appraisal process, with
    major actions to empower consumers with new tools to address
    appraisal bias; leverage data to identify trends and crack down on
    biased appraisers; and support a well-trained and more
    representative appraiser profession. Last month, federal agencies
    [approved a new
    rule](https://www.consumerfinance.gov/about-us/blog/cfpb-approves-rule-to-ensure-accuracy-and-accountability-in-the-use-of-ai-and-algorithms-in-home-appraisals/)
    to ensure that algorithmic valuation tools are unbiased and
    transparent, and earlier this year, agencies [took
    action](https://www.hud.gov/press/press_releases_media_advisories/hud_no_24_096)
    to help enable borrowers to request a re-assessment of the appraised
    value of their property if they believe that the appraisal was
    inaccurate or biased. While critical work remains, new data show
    that the “appraisal gap”—the likelihood that homes in communities of
    color are undervalued compared to homes in majority-white
    communities—[has been cut by more than
    40%](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/04/12/fact-sheet-president-biden-announces-key-progress-on-efforts-to-close-the-racial-wealth-gap/)
    since the Biden-Harris Administration took action.

<!-- -->

-   **Expanding opportunities for homeownership.** The Federal Housing
    Administration (FHA) has taken steps to break down systemic barriers
    to homeownership, including by changing the way student loan debt is
    calculated in FHA underwriting, so that qualified people with
    student loan debt are not at an unfair disadvantage when seeking an
    FHA-insured mortgage; changing its policy so that people with a
    consistent record of on-time rental payments have a better chance of
    being approved for an FHA mortgage; and implementing a historic cut
    in FHA’s mortgage insurance premiums to make homeownership more
    accessible and affordable for working families. Since the start of
    the Administration, [approximately 250,000 Black
    homeowners](https://www.hud.gov/press/press_releases_media_advisories/hud_no_24_020)
    have bought a home using an FHA mortgage according to the most
    recent data. In addition, the percentage of FHA mortgages insured to
    Black and Latino borrowers outpaced the overall housing market. As a
    percentage of its business, FHA serves Black borrowers at triple the
    rate of the rest of the market. During her [nationwide Economic
    Opportunity
    Tour](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/04/25/vice-president-kamala-harris-launches-nationwide-economic-opportunity-tour/),
    Vice President Harris and the Department of Housing and Urban
    Development (HUD) also [announced the awarding of nearly $40 million
    in
    funding](https://www.hud.gov/press/press_releases_media_advisories/hud_no_24_115)
    to expand housing counseling services for underserved communities in
    order to help bridge the racial homeownership gap and foster the
    next generation of homeowners.

<!-- -->

-   **Enforcing fair housing laws.** This past spring, HUD [awarded $26
    million in
    funding](https://www.hud.gov/press/press_releases_media_advisories/hud_no_24_127)
    to state and local fair housing enforcement agencies under its Fair
    Housing Assistance Program (FHAP) and [awarded $30 million in
    grants](https://www.hud.gov/press/press_releases_media_advisories/hud_no_24_069)
    to fair housing organizations across the country under its Fair
    Housing Initiatives Program (FHIP). This funding will support
    efforts to address violations of the Fair Housing Act and end
    discrimination in housing and to inform the public, housing
    providers, and local governments about their rights and
    responsibilities under both the Fair Housing Act and state and local
    fair housing laws. HUD’s Office of Fair Housing and Equal
    Opportunity also recently released two guidance documents addressing
    the application of the Fair Housing Act to two important areas in
    which potentially discriminatory activity is occurring: the [tenant
    screening
    process](https://www.hud.gov/sites/dfiles/FHEO/documents/FHEO_Guidance_on_Screening_of_Applicants_for_Rental_Housing.pdf)
    and [the advertising of housing
    opportunities](https://www.hud.gov/sites/dfiles/FHEO/documents/FHEO_Guidance_on_Advertising_through_Digital_Platforms.pdf)
    through online platforms that use targeted ads.   

**Ensuring equal opportunity and fighting back against employment
discrimination in America’s workplaces**

America’s workers should have access to well-paying jobs in workplaces
free from discrimination and harassment. Established by Title VII of the
Act, EEOC plays a critical role in combatting employment discrimination
and has a [strong record of
settlements](https://www.eeoc.gov/title-vii-civil-rights-act-1964-requiring-discrimination-free-workplaces-60-years)
of employment discrimination disputes under the Biden-Harris
Administration. In FY 2023, EEOC recovered a record $665 million for
workers subjected to discrimination in private, state and local
government, and federal workplaces.

-   **Expanding protections for workers.** In 2022, the President signed
    into law the bipartisan [Pregnant Workers Fairness Act and the
    Providing Urgent Maternal Protections (PUMP) for Nursing Mothers
    Act](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/06/27/readout-of-white-house-celebration-of-the-pregnant-workers-fairness-act-and-the-pump-for-nursing-mothers-act/),
    providing basic, long overdue protections that promote safe, healthy
    workplaces free from discrimination for pregnant and postpartum
    workers. In April, the Department of Labor (DOL) issued a [final
    rule](https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2024/04/26/2024-08038/defining-and-delimiting-the-exemptions-for-executive-administrative-professional-outside-sales-and)
    to expand overtime protections for millions of lower-paid salaried
    workers by increasing the salary thresholds required to exempt
    employees from federal overtime pay requirements. Through this rule,
    the Administration extended overtime pay protections to one million
    workers earning less than $43,888 per year this July and will extend
    protections to an additional three million workers making less than
    $58,656 per year starting in January. Earlier this month, DOL also
    announced a [proposed
    rule](https://www.dol.gov/newsroom/releases/osha/osha20240702) to
    protect millions of workers in indoor and outdoor work settings from
    the significant health risks of extreme heat.

<!-- -->

-   **Strengthening protections against sexual assault and harassment in
    the workplace.** President Biden signed into law new protections to
    support survivors and address sexual assault and sexual harassment
    in the workplace. The bipartisan [Ending Forced Arbitration of
    Sexual Assault and Sexual Harassment
    Act](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/03/03/remarks-by-president-biden-at-signing-of-h-r-4445-ending-forced-arbitration-of-sexual-assault-and-sexual-harassment-act-of-2021/)
    empower survivors by giving them a choice to go to court instead of
    being forced into arbitration, and the Speak Out Act enables
    survivors to speak out about workplace sexual assault and
    harassment. EEOC also issued new [enforcement
    guidance](https://www.eeoc.gov/laws/guidance/enforcement-guidance-harassment-workplace)
    to clarify legal standards for preventing and addressing harassment
    in the workplace.

<!-- -->

-   **Promoting fair wages for all workers.** In January, on the 15th
    Anniversary of the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act, the Biden-Harris
    Administration [announced new
    actions](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/01/29/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-new-actions-to-advance-pay-equity-on-the-15th-anniversary-of-the-lilly-ledbetter-fair-pay-act/)
    to advance pay equity and ensure fairness for all workers. The
    Federal Government leads the way as the nation’s largest employer
    with over 2.2 million workers. The Office of Personnel Management
    issued a [final
    rule](https://www.opm.gov/news/releases/2024/01/release-opm-finalizes-regulation-to-prohibit-use-of-non-federal-salary-history/#:~:text=The%20gender%20pay%20gap%20for,from%2024.5%25%20to%205.6%25.)
    to ensure that more than 80 federal agencies will no longer consider
    an individual’s non-federal current or past pay when determining the
    salaries of federal employees. The Federal Acquisition Regulatory
    Council issued a
    [proposal](https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2024/01/30/2024-01343/office-of-federal-procurement-policy-federal-acquisition-regulation-pay-equity-and-transparency-in)
    that would prohibit federal contractors and subcontractors from
    considering past pay for personnel working on or in connection with
    a government contract and would require contractors and
    subcontractors to disclose expected salary ranges in job postings,
    which are policies that promote the economy, efficiency, and
    effectiveness of the federal contractor workforce and reduce pay
    gaps. In addition, DOL’s Office of Federal Contract Compliance
    Programs issued [new
    guidance](https://www.dol.gov/agencies/ofccp/faqs/compensationhistory)
    to help federal contractors and subcontractors and their current and
    prospective employees understand when reliance on an applicant’s
    compensation history for hiring or pay decisions may result in
    unlawful discrimination.

<!-- -->

-   **Increasing access to good jobs.** To ensure that the Federal
    Government is a model equal opportunity employer, President Biden
    signed Executive Orders [directing federal agencies to promote
    diversity, equity, inclusion and
    accessibility](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/06/25/executive-order-on-diversity-equity-inclusion-and-accessibility-in-the-federal-workforce/)
    in their personnel practices and [expanding Registered
    Apprenticeships](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/03/06/executive-order-on-scaling-and-expanding-the-use-of-registered-apprenticeships-in-industries-and-the-federal-government-and-promoting-labor-management-forums/)
    in the federal workforce to create equitable, transparent, and
    transferable career-development pathways to federal jobs. The
    [Roadmap to Support Good
    Jobs](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/05/16/biden-harris-administration-roadmap-to-support-good-jobs/)
    outlines the Biden-Harris Administration’s commitment to connecting
    people to good jobs; ensuring a skilled, diverse workforce for our
    transformational investments; boosting education and training
    efforts to ensure every community can meet its foundational labor
    needs; and creating high quality, family-sustaining jobs. This
    includes investing over $700 million in gold standard earn-and-learn
    Registered Apprenticeship programs in diverse industries and over
    $200 million in [Strengthening Community
    College](https://www.dol.gov/newsroom/releases/eta/eta20240410-0)
    grants, supporting quality workforce programs around the country,
    including in underserved communities. Additionally, under the
    President’s landmark Investing in America agenda, the Department of
    Commerce launched the [Million Women in Construction
    Initiative](https://www.commerce.gov/issues/million-women-construction-initiative),
    which calls on chip manufacturers, construction companies, and
    unions to bring one million women into the construction industry
    over the next decade, roughly doubling women’s representation in the
    industry.  

<!-- -->

-   **Delivering historic results for America’s workers.** Under the
    Biden-Harris Administration, women’s labor force participation is
    the highest it has ever been, and the gender pay gap is the
    narrowest it has ever been on record. The Administration, powered by
    a historic economic recovery, has created 5 million jobs for Latino
    workers, resulting in a near record low Latino unemployment rate.
    Since taking office, President Biden and Vice President Harris have
    created 2.3 million jobs for Black workers—significantly narrowing
    the Black-white employment gap by the end of 2023—and achieved the
    lowest Black unemployment rate on record going back more than 50
    years.

\###
