---
date: '2024-07-11'
modified_time: 2024-07-11 12:37:16-04:00
published_time: 2024-07-11 15:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/07/11/president-biden-announces-nominees-3/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Announces\_Nominees"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Joe Biden announced his intent to nominate
the following individuals to serve as leaders in his administration:

-   Kali C. Jones, Nominee to be Ambassador Extraordinary and
    Plenipotentiary to the Republic of Benin
-   Douglas D. Jones, Nominee to be Ambassador Extraordinary and
    Plenipotentiary to Bosnia and Herzegovina
-   Stephanie A. Miley, Nominee to be Ambassador Extraordinary and
    Plenipotentiary to the Republic of The Gambia
-   Melanie Anne Zimmerman, Nominee to be Ambassador Extraordinary and
    Plenipotentiary to the Republic of Guinea
-   Keith D. Hanigan, Nominee to be Ambassador Extraordinary and
    Plenipotentiary to the Solomon Islands
-   Julie Brinn Siegel, Nominee to be a Commissioner of the Commodity
    Futures Trading Commission
-   Carl Whitney Bentzel, Nominee to be a Commissioner on the Federal
    Maritime Commission
-   Deva A. Kyle, Nominee to be Director of the Pension Benefit Guaranty
    Corporation
-   Deborah Lynn Halvorson Bush, Nominee to be Chair and Member of the
    Railroad Retirement Board

Additionally, President Biden announced his intent to nominate the
following individuals to serve as Republican members of boards and
commissions that are required, by statute or longstanding practice, to
include bipartisan membership.

-   L.E. Sola, Nominee to be a Commissioner (Republican) of the Federal
    Maritime Commission
-   Marco M. Rajkovich Jr., Nominee to be a Member (Republican) of the
    Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission
-   William Patrick J. Kimmitt, Nominee to be a Member (Republican) of
    the United States International Trade Commission

**<u>Kali C. Jones, Nominee to be Ambassador Extraordinary and
Plenipotentiary to the Republic of Benin</u>**

Kali C. Jones is a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of
Counselor. She currently serves as a Senior Advisor for the Bureau of
Western Hemisphere Affairs at the U.S. Department of State. Prior to
that, she served as the Chief of Staff at the U.S. Mission to the United
Nations. Other assignments include being the Deputy Chief of Mission of
the U.S. Embassy in Gaborone, Botswana, the Diplomat in Residence at
Tulane University, and the Deputy Director of the State Department’s
Executive Secretariat Advance and Staffing Division. Earlier, Jones
served as Chief of Staff in the Office of the Counselor, as Deputy
Economic Counselor at the U.S. Embassy in Brasilia, Brazil and as Deputy
Political Counselor at the U.S. Embassy in Port au Prince, Haiti. Jones
earned her bachelor’s degree from Howard University, a Juris Doctor
degree from Tulane Law School, and a Master of Science Degree from
Tulane School of Public Health and Tropical Medicine. She also earned a
second Master of Science Degree at the National War College.

**<u>Douglas D. Jones, Nominee to be Ambassador Extraordinary and
Plenipotentiary to Bosnia and Herzegovina</u>**

Douglas D. Jones, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service with the
rank of Minister-Counselor, currently serves as a Deputy Assistant
Secretary of State in the Bureau of European and Eurasian Affairs at the
U.S. Department of State. He oversees European security, including the
North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), the Organization for Security
and Cooperation in Europe, and Northern Europe, including the United
Kingdom, Ireland, and the Nordic and Baltic countries, as well as Arctic
security. Most recently, Jones served as Chargé d’Affaires ad interim
and Deputy Chief of Mission at the U.S. Mission to NATO. He served two
other assignments as Deputy Chief of Mission at U.S. Embassies in
Zagreb, Croatia and Podgorica, Montenegro. His previous domestic
assignments include Director of the Office of Peacekeeping, Sanctions,
and Counterterrorism in the Bureau of International Organization
Affairs, Director for NATO and Western Europe at the National Security
Council, and as a member of the U.S. delegation to the United Nations in
New York. Overseas he also served as Senior Civilian Representative at
the Provincial Reconstruction Team in Jalalabad, Afghanistan, and at
U.S. embassies in Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina; Dublin, Ireland; and
Tel Aviv, Israel. Jones holds a Bachelor’s degree from Bowdoin College
and a Master’s degree in International Relations from Princeton
University. He is the recipient of a Presidential Meritorious Rank
Award. His foreign languages are Hebrew and Serbo-Croatian.

**<u>Stephanie A. Miley, Nominee to be Ambassador Extraordinary and
Plenipotentiary to the Republic of The Gambia</u>**

Stephanie Miley is a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class
of Minister-Counselor. She most recently served as Deputy Chief of
Mission of the U.S. Embassy in Kinshasa, the Democratic Republic of the
Congo. Previously she was a Senior Advisor in the Office of the Under
Secretary for Economic Growth, Energy, and the Environment, U.S.
Department of State. Before that, Miley served as Deputy Chief of
Mission and, for two and a half years, as Chargé d’Affaires, ad interim
of the U.S. Embassy in Rabat, Morocco. Earlier in her career Miley held
assignments as the Minister Counselor for Economic Affairs at the U.S.
Embassy Mexico City, Mexico; as a Senior Advisor in the Bureau of
Political-Military Affairs in the U.S. Department of State; and as
Political Advisor to the Supreme Allied Commander Europe, North Atlantic
Treaty Organization. She also worked as the Director of Policy and
Regional Affairs in the Bureau of European and Eurasian Affairs, as
Director of Office of Iraq and Afghanistan Affairs at the National
Security Council, and as a Provincial Reconstruction Team Leader in
Tikrit, Iraq. Miley received her bachelor’s degree from the University
of Notre Dame, an M.A. degree from Stanford University, and an M.S.
degree from the National War College, Fort McNair, Washington D.C. She
speaks Spanish and French.

**<u>Melanie Anne Zimmerman, Nominee to be Ambassador Extraordinary and
Plenipotentiary to the Republic of Guinea</u>**

Melanie Anne Zimmerman, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service
with the rank of Counselor, is currently the Minister Counselor for
Multilateral, Economic and Political Affairs at the U.S. Mission to the
United Nations in Geneva, Switzerland. Her previous domestic assignments
include Deputy Political Counselor at the U.S. Mission to the United
Nations in New York and Special Assistant to the Assistant Secretary of
State for African Affairs. She also was detailed to the Department of
Defense as a Foreign Policy Advisor to Special Operations Command Africa
in Germany. Overseas she served as Chargé d’Affaires ad interim and
Deputy Chief of Mission in Mauritius and the Seychelles, Consul General
in Quebec, Canada, and at U.S. Embassies in Ouagadougou, Burkina Faso;
Lomé, Togo; and Yaoundé, Cameroon. Zimmerman holds a B.A. from the
University of Maryland, an M.A. from the European Institute for Advanced
International Relations in Nice, France, and a Ph.D. from the University
of St. Andrews in St. Andrews, Scotland. She is the recipient of the
U.S. Department of State’s Political Advisor of the Year award, as well
as the U.S. Department of Defense’s Joint Meritorious Civilian Service
Award. She was twice knighted with the Legion of Honor (Togo and Burkina
Faso) for her work on bilateral political-military affairs. She speaks
French and Spanish.

**<u>Keith D. Hanigan, Nominee to be Ambassador Extraordinary and
Plenipotentiary to the Solomon Islands</u>**

Keith D. Hanigan, a career member of the Foreign Service, class of
Counselor, currently serves as the Deputy Assistant Secretary of the
Directorate of Operations in the Bureau of Administration of the U.S.
Department of State. In that capacity he is responsible for the U.S.
Department of State’s domestic real property portfolio; allowances for
more than 80,000 U.S. government civilian employees working overseas;
and support for overseas schools, American employee associations, and
general services. Previously he was the Director of the Office of
Facilities Management in the Bureau of Overseas Building Operations.
Earlier, Hanigan served as Facility Manager at U.S. Embassies in Kabul,
Afghanistan; London, United Kingdom; Baghdad, Iraq; Vienna, Austria;
Brasilia, Brazil; Managua, Nicaragua; Guatemala City, Guatemala; and San
Salvador, El Salvador. Throughout his career, he also has been actively
involved in welfare issues that support American families and Locally
Engaged Staff at U.S. missions. Before joining the State Department, he
lived and worked in the Solomon Islands for almost seven years, as a
Peace Corps volunteer, an engineer, and as a local hire at the U.S.
Embassy in Honiara, where he developed a deep respect for the Solomon
Islands culture and its people. Hanigan earned a Bachelor of Science in
Civil Engineering from Lafayette College in Easton, Pennsylvania. He was
the 2011 recipient of the David E. Foy Memorial Excellence in Facilities
Management Award. He speaks Spanish, Portuguese, and Solomon Islands
Pijin.

**<u>Julie Brinn Siegel, Nominee to be a Commissioner of the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission</u>**

Julie Brinn Siegel is an expert in financial regulation, policy
development, and government administration, having held multiple
leadership roles across all three branches of government over the past
15 years. She currently serves as the federal government’s deputy chief
operating officer as Senior Coordinator for Management at the Office of
Management and Budget (OMB). In this role, she oversees government-wide
implementation of key priority initiatives, financial management,
procurement, IT and cybersecurity, performance management, and federal
workforce issues.

Before joining OMB, Siegel served as Secretary of the Treasury Janet
Yellen’s Deputy Chief of Staff where she managed policy issues related
to domestic finance, national security, and tax policy. Prior to her
service at the U.S. Department of the Treasury, Siegel led the
Biden-Harris Transition Team’s efforts related to economic policy
personnel. Siegel previously worked in the U.S. Senate as Senator
Elizabeth Warren’s (D-MA) Senior Counsel for Economic Policy, where she
led the Senator’s economic policy, financial markets, banking, consumer
protection, tax, and labor teams. 

Prior to working on Capitol Hill, Siegel was Counselor to the General
Counsel and Senior Advisor in the Office of the Director at the Consumer
Financial Protection Bureau. Earlier in her career, Siegel worked for
the Office of the White House Counsel, the White House Council of
Economic Advisers, OMB, and former White House Chief of Staff Bill
Daley. She also served as a law clerk for the Honorable Peter J.
Messitte of the Federal District Court for the District of Maryland.

Siegel is a graduate of the University of Pennsylvania and Harvard Law
School. She lives in Washington, D.C. with her husband and their two
children.

**<u>Carl Whitney Bentzel, Nominee to be a Commissioner on the Federal
Maritime Commission</u>**

Carl Whitney Bentzel has served as Commissioner of the Federal Maritime
Commission (FMC) since 2019. Prior to his appointment, Bentzel created
and established a consulting services company where he represented
clients on regulatory and legislative issues within the areas of
transportation, energy and other areas of federal regulatory oversight.
From 2004-2014, Bentzel served as Vice President and Head of the Federal
Advocacy Division of the DCI Group, a public relations firm.

Prior to working in the private sector, Bentzel served the public sector
for ten years as a U.S. Senate professional committee staffer including,
most recently, as Senior Democratic Counsel of the U.S. Senate Committee
on Commerce, Science and Transportation. He moved to his role in the
U.S. Senate after spending four years on the U.S. House Committee on
Merchant Marine and Fisheries Committee where he served as Counsel for
Maritime Policy. 

Bentzel’s primary areas of responsibility on the U.S. Senate Committee
on Commerce, Science and Transportation were issues on maritime
transportation; rail, surface and pipeline transportation; energy
transportation and hazardous materials; and homeland security in these
areas. While working in the Senate, Bentzel served as one of the
principals in crafting the Maritime Security Act of 1996, the Ocean
Shipping Reform Act of 1998, and in 2002, after the attacks on 9/11, the
requirements mandated for maritime security through the Maritime
Transportation Security Act of 2002. He also dealt with matters
impacting economic regulation of rail and surface industries before the
Surface Transportation Board, and a variety of energy related regulatory
issues.

During his tenure at the FMC, Bentzel has focused efforts on issues
emanating from the global pandemic and the challenges it caused for
international shipping and U.S. Supply Chain. Bentzel has led the
Commission’s efforts in the potential formation of standards to increase
transparency, awareness and accountability for those involved in
maritime shipping impacting our nation’s supply chain.

Bentzel earned his Bachelor of Arts from St. Lawrence University, his
Juris Doctor from the University of Alabama, and his Master of Laws from
the Admiralty Law Institute, Tulane University.

**<u>Deva A. Kyle, Nominee to be Director of the Pension Benefit
Guaranty Corporation</u>**

Deva A. Kyle is an employee benefits expert with over 20 years of
experience. Since 2022, she has served as Of Counsel for Cohen, Weiss,
and Simon LLP, where she advises retirement plans, trustees, employee
organizations, and employers on a wide range of employee benefits
matters.

Kyle began her career with the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation
(PBGC) as an attorney and then as Assistant Chief Counsel in
large-exposure litigation and Chapter 11 bankruptcy cases. Later, she
served as Staff Director in the Office of Policy and External Affairs
and as Acting Deputy Chief of Negotiations and Restructuring where she
helped lead PBGC’s single and multiemployer insurance programs.

In 2015, Kyle was detailed to the U.S. Department of the Treasury,
where, with a team of experts, she crafted the Department’s
Multiemployer Pension Reform Act (MPRA) program regulations and
processes. Once the program was established, Kyle worked closely with
the Special Master to oversee the first team of analysts, actuaries, and
attorneys for the Department’s MPRA program, reviewing the most
financially and actuarially complex applications to date.

In 2017, Kyle served on detail as Tax Counsel for the Ways and Means
Committee, advising the members of the Ways and Means Committee and the
Joint Select Committee on Solvency of Multiemployer Pension Plans
regarding retirement policy and law. Kyle has testified before the
United States Senate Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions Committee
and the U.S. Department of Labor Advisory Council on Employee Welfare
and Pension Benefit Plans and regularly speaks before professional
groups and bar associations regarding employee benefits matters.

Kyle received her B.A. in Sociology from Vassar College and her J.D.
from the Georgetown University Law Center.

**<u>Deborah Lynn Halvorson Bush, Nominee to be Chair and Member of the
Railroad Retirement Board</u>**

Deborah Lynn Halvorson Bush spent almost 20 years in elected office
serving on the local, state, and federal levels. In 2005, Halvorson Bush
became the first woman in Illinois history to serve as the Senate
Majority Leader in the Illinois General Assembly. She went on to serve
in Congress in Illinois’ 11<sup>th</sup> District.

Halvorson Bush recently retired from working with her husband in his two
business, American Eagle Steel and American Eagle Logistics, having
partnered with him for the past 12 years. During the last 10 years, she
also spent time working on several projects related to the supply chain
and transportation.

Halvorson Bush earned her B.A. and M.A. from Governors State University.
She was born and raised in the south suburbs of Chicago, Illinois where
she currently resides with her husband. Together, they have four
children and six grandchildren.

**<u>L.E. Sola, Nominee to be a Commissioner (Republican) of the Federal
Maritime Commission</u>**

L.E. Sola has served as a Commissioner of the Federal Maritime
Commission since being confirmed to the position by the U.S. Senate in
January 2019. In his tenure, he has applied his extensive experience in
international trade to the work of the Commission in meeting its mandate
of ensuring a competitive and reliable supply chain. His leadership on
matters related to foreign commerce, sustainability, and mitigating
pandemic-related impacts to ports and their employees, have been
formally recognized by many entities including Miami-Dade County and the
Panama Canal Authority.

Sola has had a distinguished career in both the private and public
sectors. He served on the Florida Board of Pilot Commissioners
immediately prior to joining the Commission. He was an executive at
Camper & Nicholsons International and a licensed international ship
broker. He began his business career working as a consultant at Arden &
Price authoring studies for the Inter-American Development Bank
exploring the future of the Panama Canal upon its return to Panamanian
sovereignty. He has also served as an adjunct professor at Florida State
University.

Sola began his public service at the age of 18 as an enlisted soldier in
the U.S. Army. He spent 12 years in the military working in
intelligence, counterintelligence, and counter-narcotics functions,
serving in the U.S. Army Intelligence and Security Command (18th
Military Intelligence Battalion, Germany) and the U.S. Southern Command
(310th Military Intelligence Battalion, Panama).

Sola earned a B.S. in Management from Nova Southeastern University and
an M.S. in International Finance from the University of Illinois. He is
a twice graduate of the Defense Language Institute, Presidio of
Monterey, where he mastered German and Spanish.

**<u>Marco M. Rajkovich Jr., Nominee to be a Member (Republican) of the
Federal Mine Safety and Health Review Commission</u>**

Marco M. Rajkovich is a Commissioner and former Chair of the Federal
Mine Safety and Health Review Commission. Prior, he was Co-Manager of
the Lexington, Kentucky law firm of Rajkovich, Williams, Kilpatrick &
True, PLLC which was formed in 2005. From 1987 to 2005, Rajkovich was
with the Lexington office of Wyatt, Tarrant & Combs, LLP as Partner,
Co-Chair of the Mineral & Energy Practice Group, Chair of the Mine
Safety Litigation Subgroup and served in various management positions
with the law firm. Prior to his law career, he was with U.S. Steel
Mining Company, Inc. from 1974 to 1984 serving in various positions in
engineering as well as production. He is a licensed professional
engineer – mining, a licensed professional land surveyor, and a
certified underground mine foreman in Kentucky. Rajkovich is also a
permanent deacon of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Arlington, Virginia as
well as the Diocese of Lexington, Kentucky. He and his wife, Kathleen,
currently reside in Reston, Virginia.

Rajkovich is a 1973 graduate of Lynch High School, 1977 graduate of the
University of Kentucky College of Engineering where he earned a Bachelor
of Science degree in Civil Engineering with the Mining Option and was a
member of Chi Epsilon Civil Engineering Honorary. He is a 1987 graduate
of the University of Kentucky College of Law where he was a member of
the Journal of Mineral Law & Policy. He also holds a 2016 Master of Arts
(Pastoral Theology) from Saint Meinrad Seminary and School of Theology.

Rajkovich was given the 2008 Achievement in Mining Award by the Kentucky
Society of Professional Engineers (KSPE), was a six-time recipient of
the KSPE President’s Award, named a Kentucky Superlawyer, given the 2011
Honorary Membership in the Kentucky Association of Professional
Surveyors, named in *Best Lawyers in America* as 2014 Lawyer of the
Year—Energy Law—Lexington, Kentucky, and was given the 2014
Distinguished Alumni Award, Mining Engineering by the University of
Kentucky.

Throughout his career, Rajkovich has authored several articles and
contributed to several treatises regarding mining. For many years,
Rajkovich was authorized by the Kentucky Board of Licensure for
Professional Engineers and Land Surveyors as an instructor on ethics and
minimum technical standards and has given national presentations on
ethics for the National Society of Professional Engineers.

**<u>William Patrick J. Kimmitt, Nominee to be a Member (Republican) of
the United States International Trade Commission</u>**

William Patrick J. Kimmitt is a partner in the Washington, D.C. office
of Kirkland & Ellis LLP where his practice focuses on complex commercial
litigation, trade and investment advisory matters, and government and
internal investigations. Kimmitt has extensive experience litigating
cases in federal and state courts throughout the country on a broad
array of subject matters, including international trade and trade secret
misappropriation. He has also represented clients in Section 337 unfair
import investigations before the International Trade Commission. Kimmitt
previously served as Counselor to the United States Trade Representative
(USTR) where he served as a senior advisor to the Trade Representative
on trade policy and legal matters. His work at USTR included significant
involvement in the implementation and entry into force of the United
States-Mexico-Canada Agreement as well as engagement with the
International Trade Commission on the commencement of numerous
investigations and other trade issues. A Virginia native, Kimmitt
received his B.A. from Duke University and his J.D. from Georgetown
University Law Center. He and his wife Heather reside in Arlington,
Virginia with their four children.

\# \# \#
