---
date: '2024-07-16'
modified_time: 2024-07-16 09:53:11-04:00
published_time: 2024-07-16 05:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/07/16/fact-sheet-president-biden-announces-major-new-actions-to-lower-housing-costs-by-limiting-rent-increases-and-building-more-homes/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: President\_Biden Announces Major New Actions to Lower Housing\
  \ Costs by Limiting Rent Increases and Building More\_Homes"
---
 
*President Biden calls on corporate landlords to cap rent increases at
5% and takes action to make more public land available for housing*

President Biden is taking action to make renting more affordable for
millions of Americans. Today, President Biden is announcing new actions
to lower housing costs, including:

-   Calling on Congress to pass legislation giving corporate landlords a
    choice to either **cap rent increases on existing units at 5%** or
    risk losing current valuable federal tax breaks;
-   Repurposing public land sustainably **to enable as many as 15,000
    additional affordable housing units to be built in Nevada**; and
-   Rehabilitating distressed housing, building more affordable housing,
    and revitalizing neighborhoods, including in Las Vegas, Nevada.

The President called on Congress to make the American Dream a reality
for more families by passing the [Biden-Harris Housing
Plan](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/03/19/fact-sheet-in-nevada-president-biden-to-double-down-on-plan-to-lower-housing-costs-and-increase-housing-supply-for-american-families/),
which would build 2 million homes, and provide $10,000 in mortgage
relief to unlock homeownership for millions of Americans. Already, more
units are under construction than at any time in over 50 years, and the
rate of new housing starts is up 17 percent compared to the last
Administration.  
  
The Biden-Harris Administration is using all available tools to lower
housing costs, including limiting rent increases on rentals built with
federal tax
credits; [supporting](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/06/26/fact-sheet-vice-president-harris-announces-first-of-its-kind-funding-to-lower-housing-costs-by-reducing-barriers-to-building-more-homes/) local
communities that are building more housing; standing up to price-fixing
by corporate landlords setting high rents for [tens of millions of
apartments](https://www.ftc.gov/business-guidance/blog/2024/03/price-fixing-algorithm-still-price-fixing);
and cutting energy costs by making housing more efficient and climate
resilient.  
  
Republicans in Congress have blocked the President’s housing agenda.
Congressional Republicans have tried to cut rental assistance and
programs that build more homes and lower mortgage costs. And Senate
Republicans are currently blocking a bill that passed the House with
overwhelming bipartisan support that would help build 200,000 affordable
homes. In addition, the previous administration secured a special tax
subsidy for corporate landlords. While Republicans side with corporate
landlords that are raising rents, President Biden is cracking down on
price gouging and building more homes to lower rents and put
homeownership in reach for working families.  
  
**<span style="text-decoration: underline">Cracking Down on Corporate
Landlords and Lowering Rents</span>**  
  
Some corporate landlords have taken advantage of the shortage of
available units by raising rents by more than increases in their own
costs—resulting in huge profits at a time when millions of Americans are
struggling to cover rent each month. And
recent [analysis](https://accountable.us/report-top-corporate-landlords-see-profits-soar-amid-rent-hikes-and-fees/) showed
that the six largest publicly-traded apartment companies reported large
profits earlier this year, and many of these same landlords are named in
pending litigation for their alleged use of proprietary algorithms to
raise rents on tenants.  
  
***President Biden is calling on Congress to pass legislation presenting
corporate landlords with a basic choice: either cap rent increases on
existing units to no more than 5% or lose valuable federal tax
breaks. ***Under President Biden’s plan, corporate landlords, beginning
this year and for the next two years, would only be able to take
advantage of faster depreciation write-offs available to owners of
rental housing if they keep annual rent increases to no more than 5%
each year. This would apply to landlords with over 50 units in their
portfolio, covering more than 20 million units across the country. It
would include an exception for new construction and substantial
renovation or rehabilitation. The policy is a bridge to rents
stabilizing as President Biden’s plan to build more takes hold. The
President believes that this combination of anti-gouging policies and
historic levels of support to build more affordable housing [effectively
balances](https://furmancenter.org/files/Rent_Regulation_for_the_21st_Century.pdf) the
needs of tenants without limiting incentives for more supply. The
Administration looks forward to working with Congress to ensure renters
are protected and corporate landlords comply with the intent of this
proposal.  
  
***The Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA)
is *[*announcing*](https://www.fhfa.gov/news/news-release/fhfa-announces-multifamily-tenant-protections-july-2024)* new
actions to protect renters in multifamily properties financed by loans
acquired by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac.* **These protections apply to
future loans acquired by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, who have financed
an average of 1.2 million multifamily rental units over the past three
years. The protections include:

-   Requiring 30-day notice before rent increases;
-   Requiring 30-day notice on lease expiration; and
-   Providing a 5-day grace period before imposing late fees on rental
    payments.

**<span style="text-decoration: underline">Repurposing Public Land to
Build More Affordable Housing</span>**  
  
Today, the Biden-Harris Administration is announcing new actions to
repurpose federal land to build tens of thousands of affordable homes.
The Federal Government is the largest landholder in the country, and
state and local governments, as well as entities like transit agencies,
school districts, public utilities, and faith-based institutions, own
considerable amounts of land that are underutilized and may be used in
ways that better reflect local priorities and housing needs.  
  
The President is calling on all federal agencies to assess surplus
federal land that can be repurposed to build more affordable housing
across the country. The White House will work with federal agencies with
land disposition authorities, as well as agencies that provide financing
tools for housing and needed infrastructure—with a goal of quickly
building more housing that is affordable for working families and
climate resilient, which will bring down energy costs, while protecting
local lands and waters.  
  
***The Bureau of Land Management (BLM) is announcing new actions to
create thousands of affordable housing units on BLM land in
Nevada.* **BLM is opening a public comment period on a sale of [20 acres
of public land to Clark County,
Nevada](https://www.blm.gov/press-release/blm-seeks-input-proposed-sale-public-lands-affordable-housing)
for below market value at just $100 per acre—the largest-ever sale for
affordable housing under the Southern Nevada Public Lands Management
Act [program](https://www.blm.gov/sites/default/files/documents/files/SNPLMA_3%20PROGRAM%20STATISTICS.pdf),
which the county estimates will enable the development of nearly 150
affordable homes for households making less than 80% of area median
income. BLM will also soon announce the proposed below-market sale of an
additional 18 acres to the City of Henderson, which the City estimates
will provide nearly 300 affordable housing units for rent. These actions
are the first affordable housing sales conducted under a [memorandum of
understanding](http://www.doi.gov/sites/doi.gov/files/joint-doi-hud-mou-esb46-011979-public-land-disposal-for-affordable-housing-pursuant-to-snplma-2023-07-13-signed.pdf) between
BLM and the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) earlier in
this Administration that improves the sale process and lowers the cost
for affordable housing parcels.  
  
BLM is considering an additional [562.5
acres](https://www.blm.gov/programs/lands-and-realty/regional-information/nevada/snplma/affordable-housing-reservations) of
public lands that have been identified by local governments in Southern
Nevada and that are appropriate for affordable housing in the Las Vegas
Valley—supporting the building of up to 15,000 or more additional
affordable rental and homeownership units for Nevadans. BLM will also
work with local governments as they come forward with housing-related
requests for the roughly 26,000 acres in Las Vegas Valley that remain
under BLM control and are eligible for disposition under the Southern
Nevada Public Lands Management Act program.  
  
***The United States Forest Service (USFS) is announcing plans to lease
Forest Service land to build workforce housing—the first-ever such
projects in the nation.* **USFS is planning to lease strategically
positioned sites for workforce housing developments in Steamboat
Springs, Colorado and Ketchum, Idaho, to create new affordable housing.
USFS is actively exploring additional federal land that can be leveraged
to support workforce housing, including in high-cost areas across the
country.  
  
***The United States Postal Service (USPS) will pilot the repurposing of
certain surplus properties for
housing.* **USPS [owns](https://about.usps.com/who/legal/foia/owned-facilities.htm) more
than 8,500 facilities nationwide, including some that are not needed for
postal operations in areas that face a shortage of affordable housing.  
  
***HUD, Health and Human Services (HHS), and General Services
Administration (GSA) plan to release a final rule to make it easier for
public and nonprofit developers to use federal buildings and land to
house the homeless.* **The Title V program, authorized by the
McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act, allows federal agencies to use
unutilized, underutilized, excess, or surplus federal properties at no
cost to develop housing for people experiencing homelessness. The new
rule would make it easier for developers to navigate the process,
potentially resulting in thousands of additional housing units to
address homelessness and affordability challenges.  
  
***The Department of Transportation (DOT) published *[*interim
guidance*](https://www.transit.dot.gov/funding/funding-finance-resources/interim-asset-disposition-guidance)* to
permit transit agencies to use their property to support
transit-oriented development.* **This will make it easier to build
affordable housing near transit.  
  
***Call to action for state and local governments to build more
affordable housing on public lands.****** ***The White House is also
calling on state, local, tribal, and territorial entities, as well as
transit agencies, public utilities, school districts, and other
quasi-governmental agencies, and encouraging faith-based, community, and
other non-profit institutions to consider whether land they hold might
be suitable for the development of affordable housing. Based on new
analysis, the Center for Geospatial Solutions at the Lincoln Institute
of Land
Policy [estimates](https://cgsearth.org/cgs-who-owns-america-government-land-report) the
development potential of underutilized state and local government land
located near transit at approximately 1.9 million units
nationwide. [HUD](https://www.huduser.gov/portal/ota/thriving-communities-ta-program.html) and [DOT](https://www.transportation.gov/buildamerica/innovativefinancegrants) both
offer technical assistance that can help governments identify and
repurpose land they own for housing, and HUD published a [best practices
guide](https://www.huduser.gov/portal/Policy-and-Practice.html) that
includes examples and strategies governments can deploy to repurpose
their land for housing.  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">  
**Investing $325 Million in Housing and Community Development**</span>  
  
***HUD is announcing [$325 million in Choice Neighborhoods
grants](https://www.hud.gov/press/press_releases_media_advisories/HUD_No_24_182)
to build new deeply-affordable homes, spur economic development, and
revitalize neighborhoods in communities across the country.*** The
awards will build over 6,500 units of new housing, support small
businesses, build childcare centers and new parks, and will be used to
leverage more than $2.65 billion in additional public and private
investments in these neighborhoods. These awards reflect deep engagement
and input from the community, including residents, local leaders, and
other stakeholders, such as public housing authorities, cities, schools,
law enforcement, business owners, nonprofits, and private developers
that have come together to create and implement plans to preserve and
expand housing, build neighborhood resources and amenities, and invest
in the people who live in these communities.  
  
For example, the $50 million grant awarded today to the Southern Nevada
Regional Housing Authority and the City of Las Vegas will restore 235
existing affordable housing units for extremely low-income renters and
build 400 new units of housing. They will invest in an early learning
center and provide support for small businesses. In addition, these
funds will leverage an additional $212 million in public and private
resources in this community, that will activate indoor and outdoor
community spaces, and provide supportive services to residents.  
  
Other recipients of these grants include Syracuse, NY; Chattanooga, TN;
Huntsville, AL; Miami, FL; Houston, TX; Trenton, NJ; Phoenix, AZ;
Shreveport, LA; Cleveland, OH; Baton Rouge, LA; Camden, NJ;
Winston-Salem, NC; Lewiston, ME; and Norfolk, VA.

**\###**
