---
date: '2024-07-11'
published_time: 2024-07-11 11:36:05-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/07/11/readout-of-president-bidens-meeting-with-natos-indo-pacific-partners/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Readout of President\_Biden\u2019s Meeting with NATO\u2019s Indo-Pacific\_\
  Partners"
---
 
On the margins of the NATO Summit, President Joseph R. Biden, Jr.
briefly met today with President Yoon Suk Yeol of the Republic of Korea,
Prime Minister Kishida Fumio of Japan, Prime Minister Christopher Luxon
of New Zealand, and Deputy Prime Minister and Defense Minister Richard
Marles of Australia. 

The leaders discussed the increasing connectivity between Euro-Atlantic
and Indo-Pacific security, noting that challenges in one region affect
the other. They strongly condemned Russia’s war against Ukraine, and
each pledged to continue to support Ukraine in its self-defense.
President Biden welcomed the courageous support to Ukraine offered by
each of NATO’s Indo-Pacific Partners. The leaders also strongly
condemned the unlawful arms transfers from the Democratic People’s
Republic of Korea (DPRK) to Russia, which undermine peace and stability
in both the Indo-Pacific and Euro-Atlantic regions. They expressed grave
concern over the increasing military and economic cooperation between
Russia and the DPRK, which violates multiple United Nations Security
Council resolutions. The leaders also discussed their shared concerns
over the People’s Republic of China’s support to Russia’s defense
industrial base.

President Biden welcomed the growing contributions of NATO’s
Indo-Pacific Partners to global security, including their investments in
defense, support to Ukraine, and strong leadership in the Indo-Pacific.
The leaders welcomed the four new flagship projects between NATO and its
Indo-Pacific Partners, focused on support to Ukraine; cyber defense;
exchanging information on the challenges posted by disinformation; and
artificial intelligence. They agreed to further build on these efforts
in the months and years ahead.

The leaders welcomed that Secretary Blinken and the Foreign Ministers of
Australia, Japan, New Zealand, and the Republic of Korea intend to meet
later this year to advance further cooperation among our countries.

\###
