---
date: '2024-07-31'
modified_time: 2024-07-31 11:47:47-04:00
published_time: 2024-07-31 15:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/07/31/president-biden-announces-key-nominees-78/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Announces Key\_Nominees"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Joe Biden announced his intent to nominate
the following individuals to serve as key leaders in his administration:

-   Lisa M. Re, Nominee to be Inspector General, U.S. Department of
    Commerce
-   Kristi Zuleika Lane Scott, Nominee to be Inspector General, National
    Security Agency
-   Angela M. Kerwin, Nominee to be Ambassador Extraordinary and
    Plenipotentiary to Brunei Darussalam
-   Thomas B. Chapman, Nominee to be a Member of the National
    Transportation Safety Board

**<u>Lisa M. Re, Nominee to be Inspector General, U.S. Department of
Commerce</u>**

Lisa M. Re is an Assistant Inspector General for Legal Affairs at the
Office of Inspector General, U.S. Department of Health and Human
Services (HHS OIG). She is an accomplished attorney, former ICU nurse,
and trusted executive with 20 years of experience leading and directing
organizations and teams while exercising sound judgment to achieve
high-stakes mission objectives. Re furthered HHS OIG’s mission – to
protect federal health care programs and the people who rely on them –
by setting enforcement priorities, holding bad actors accountable, and
protecting the most vulnerable Americans from substandard care.   

Re has served in many leadership roles since joining HHS OIG in 2005,
including Acting Chief Counsel, Branch Chief, Deputy Branch Chief, and
Acting Director of External Affairs. She has deep expertise advising on
complex issues, leading multidisciplinary teams, and partnering with
external stakeholders. Re currently oversees HHS’s Whistleblower
Coordinator, HHS OIG-initiated fraud litigation, its employment law
office, and exclusion program. Re is an award-winning attorney and
nationwide expert on oversight and enforcement and frequently speaks at
national conferences on HHS OIG priorities.

Re holds a J.D. from Saint Louis University School of Law, Master of
Arts from Webster University, and Bachelor of Science in Nursing from
Saint Louis University. Re is a native of St. Louis, Missouri and
currently resides in Chevy Chase, Maryland, with her husband and two
sons. 

**<u>Kristi Zuleika Lane Scott, Nominee to be Inspector General,
National Security Agency</u>**

Kristi Zuleika Lane Scott has dedicated her 20-year legal career to
public service, including in leadership roles with the Central
Intelligence Agency (CIA) and at the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ).
Scott began her federal career in 2003 with DOJ as a Presidential
Management Fellow. During her long tenure with DOJ, Scott served as an
Assistant United States Attorney in the District of Arizona, as a
Special United States Attorney in the Eastern District of Virginia, and
as the Acting Director and Deputy Director of the Office of Privacy and
Civil Liberties.

As a federal prosecutor, Scott conducted jury trials, bench trials, and
grand jury investigations in a wide variety of criminal cases such as
immigration, narcotics, and other federal crimes. Scott served nearly
four years as CIA’s Privacy and Civil Liberties Officer reporting
directly to the Director of CIA as an independent, primary advisor to
senior CIA officials to ensure that privacy and civil liberties were
integrated into the day-to-day conduct of CIA’s mission. In that
capacity, Scott also served as CIA’s Chief Transparency Officer
implementing the Principals of Intelligence Transparency for the
Intelligence Community, providing oversight of CIA’s intelligence
programs to Congress, the Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board,
and the public. 

Scott currently serves as Assistant General Counsel in the Office of
General Counsel CIA, providing legal assistance and guidance on national
security and cybersecurity law. 

Scott received her J.D. degree from the Pennsylvania State University of
the Dickinson School of Law and received her Bachelor of Arts from the
University of Pittsburgh. Scott was born and raised in
Washington, Pennsylvania. She resides in Virginia with her husband and
their two children.

**<u>Angela M. Kerwin, Nominee to be Ambassador Extraordinary and
Plenipotentiary to Brunei Darussalam</u>**

Angela M. Kerwin, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service with the
rank of Minister-Counselor is currently the Deputy Assistant Secretary
for Overseas Citizen Services in the Bureau of Consular Affairs at the
U.S. State Department. Prior to that, she served as the Director of the
Assignments Division in the Office of Career Development and Assignments
and as the Director of the Korea Desk. Kerwin served as Consul General
and Minister Counselor for Consular Affairs at U.S. Embassy Seoul,
Republic of Korea, Principal Officer of the U.S. Consulate General
Matamoros, Mexico, Visa Chief at U.S. Embassy Bogota, Colombia, and in
consular and political roles in Mexico, India, and the Dominican
Republic. In Washington, D.C., Kerwin spent three years as an analyst in
the Executive Office of the Bureau of Consular Affairs. A Pennsylvania
native, Kerwin earned a J.D. from The Dickinson School of Law, a
master’s degree from the U.S. Army War College, and a bachelor’s degree
from Penn State. Prior to joining the Foreign Service, Kerwin practiced
law in Pennsylvania. Earlier, she was a Peace Corps volunteer in the
Kingdom of Tonga. Her languages are Italian and Spanish.  

**<u>Thomas B. Chapman, Nominee to be a Member of the National
Transportation Safety Board</u>**

Thomas B. Chapman became a member of the National Transportation Safety
Board (NTSB) in January 2020. Chapman has spoken extensively on the Safe
System Approach to traffic safety, pedestrian safety, alcohol and drug
impairment, and rail worker and highway-rail grade crossing safety. He
has served as on-scene spokesperson for multiple NTSB investigations.
Chapman has four decades of transportation related experience in
government, legislative, and regulatory affairs.

Prior to joining the NTSB, Chapman served six years as minority counsel
to the Senate Subcommittee on Aviation Operations, Safety, and Security.
He engaged in a broad range of issues, including the bipartisan effort
to pass comprehensive legislation reauthorizing the Federal Aviation
Administration, the Transportation Security Administration, and the
NTSB.

Chapman previously served as US Airways’ Vice President for Government
Affairs, responsible for outreach on all federal policy initiatives.
Prior to joining US Airways, he was Legislative Counsel for Southwest
Airlines. His work in the airline industry spanned 16 years. Earlier,
Chapman capped a 17-year career at the Aircraft Owners and Pilots
Association (AOPA) as Senior Vice President for Government and Technical
Affairs. While at AOPA, he held a variety of policy and safety related
positions, and he earned his private pilot certificate.

Chapman is a graduate of the American University Washington College of
Law. He received a Bachelor of Fine Arts in Music from C.W. Post
College.

\# \# \#
