---
date: '2024-07-17'
published_time: 2024-07-17 13:14:56-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/07/17/readout-of-interagency-delegation-travel-to-papua-new-guinea/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Readout of Interagency Delegation Travel to Papua New\_Guinea"
---
 
A U.S. interagency delegation comprising of senior members of the
National Security Council staff, the Departments of State and Defense,
U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID), and U.S. Indo-Pacific
Command (INDOPACOM) traveled to Papua New Guinea, July 14-16, 2024, for
meetings with senior Papua New Guinea officials focused on deepening our
bilateral relationship, including through the US-PNG Defense Cooperation
Agreement. The delegation presented a number of new initiatives
responsive to Papua New Guinea’s most pressing development and security
priorities, advancing this critical Pacific partnership.

The delegation underscored U.S. commitment to PNG through new and
sustained initiatives in a whole-of-government approach to: accelerate
implementation of new projects linked to the Defense Cooperation
Agreement; deployment of civil affairs and medical training teams to
Papua New Guinea; work to help resolve the ongoing fuel crisis through
government and private sector initiatives; support to PNG’s efforts to
boost its electricity connectivity through the PNG Electrification
Project; partnerships to enhance disaster preparedness and response;
grants to increase professional development and educational exchanges;
projects to improve community stability, including law enforcement
capacity building and support for the prevention and response of
gender-based violence through the U.S. Strategy to Prevent Conflict and
Promote Stability; and unprecedented Foreign Military Financing to
enhance the capabilities of the PNG Defense Force. 

The delegation of interagency partners included Admiral Samuel Paparo,
Commander, U.S. Indo-Pacific Command; Dr. Mira Rapp-Hooper, Special
Assistant to the President and National Security Council Senior Director
for East Asia and Oceania; Daniel Kritenbrink, Department of State
Assistant Secretary for the Bureau of East Asian and Pacific Affairs;
Michael Schiffer, U.S. Agency for International Development Assistant
Administrator of the Bureau for Asia; and Anka Lee, Deputy Assistant
Secretary of Defense for East Asia, joined by U.S. Ambassador to Papua
New Guinea, Solomon Islands, and the Republic of Vanuatu Ann Marie
Yastishock, representing the full scope of U.S. efforts in diplomacy,
development, and defense to advance the U.S.-PNG strategic partnership
based on shared history and values.

\###
