---
date: '2024-07-11'
modified_time: 2024-07-11 09:39:55-04:00
published_time: 2024-07-11 10:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/07/11/biden-harris-administration-announces-new-polar-partnership-ice-pact-alongside-finland-and-canada/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Announces New Polar Partnership \u201CICE\
  \ Pact\u201D Alongside Finland and\_Canada"
---
 
Today, the leaders of the United States, Canada, and Finland announced
their intent to create the **Icebreaker Collaboration Effort**, or ICE
Pact, which is a trilateral arrangement to collaborate on the production
of polar icebreakers and other capabilities, alongside United States’
allies and partners, labor, and industry. This collaboration is intended
to strengthen the shipbuilding industry and industrial capacity of each
nation – and build closer security and economic ties among our countries
through information exchange and mutual workforce-development focused on
building polar icebreakers, as well as other Arctic and polar
capabilities.

**Components of the Arrangement**

This arrangement will consist of three initial components: enhanced
information exchange between the United States, Canada, and Finland;
collaboration on workforce development; and an invitation to allies and
partners to purchase icebreakers built in American, Canadian, or Finnish
shipyards. Due to the capital intensity of shipbuilding, long-term,
multi-ship orderbooks are essential to the success of a shipyard. The
governments of the United States, Canada, and Finland intend to leverage
shipyards in the United States, Canada, and Finland to build polar
icebreakers for their own use, as well as to work closely with
likeminded allies and partners to build and export polar icebreakers for
their needs at speed and affordable cost. As yards in the United States,
Canada, and Finland make significant investments in their domestic
capacity to build these vessels for their own needs, ICE Pact invites
allies and partners to purchase vessels from American, Canadian, and
Finnish shipyards with experience building polar icebreakers. Through
diplomatic collaboration, shipyards focused on building polar
icebreakers can reach the scale needed to reduce costs for allies and
partners that need access to the polar regions.

*Implementation of the Arrangement*

By the end of the year, the United States, Canada, and Finland will
develop a joint memorandum of understanding that will outline a
framework for how this arrangement will be implemented within each
country – and a mechanism for adding or including additional allies and
partners as participants. The process to develop this non-binding
arrangement will be conducted through a regular trilateral consultation
process during this period.

**Strengthening America’s Polar Capabilities**

The U.S. Coast Guard requires polar icebreaking capabilities to support
the country’s economic, commercial, maritime, and national security
needs in the Polar regions. The U.S. Coast Guard is working to build new
heavy icebreakers under the Polar Security Cutter (PSC) Program. These
ships will be national assets that ensure access to both polar regions –
and will be capable of executing key Coast Guard missions, including
defense readiness; marine environmental protection; ports, waterways,
and coastal security; and search and rescue. The ships will operate
worldwide, alongside the polar icebreakers of America’s allies and
partners, and face the range of extreme environmental conditions found
in the polar, tropical, and temperate regions.

The Coast Guard is working with **Bollinger Shipyards** to build the
first Polar Security Cutters. The Louisiana-based shipbuilder will
continue its effort to deliver new American-made icebreakers to the U.S.
Coast Guard’s polar icebreaking fleet. These vessels will be the first
American-built heavy icebreakers in over 50 years – and the foundation
of the American effort to enhance our surface presence in the polar
regions. ICE Pact will continue to support their efforts, and the
President’s commitment to build more ships in American shipyards.

  
Under this trilateral arrangement, Canadian, Finnish, and American
capacity and know-how for building polar icebreakers will help deliver a
fleet of new polar icebreakers for ourselves, our allies, and other
partners.

\###
