---
date: '2024-07-17'
modified_time: 2024-07-22 17:14:11-04:00
published_time: 2024-07-17 05:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/07/17/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-new-actions-to-expand-opportunities-for-latino-communities-and-ensure-every-family-has-a-fair-shot-at-the-american-dream/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Announces New Actions to Expand\
  \ Opportunities for Latino Communities and Ensure Every Family Has a Fair Shot at\
  \ the American\_Dream"
---
 
President Biden and Vice President Harris are working to ensure that all
Latino families and communities can achieve greater opportunity. Over
the past three years, the Administration has taken historic action to
expand opportunity for Latino families and communities, including
creating more than 15 million jobs – with 5 million created for Latinos,
helping Latino entrepreneurs start new businesses at the fastest rate in
over 10 years, working to ensure equitable educational opportunity for
students, addressing our broken immigration system through new executive
actions, and more.

Today, the Biden-Harris Administration is announcing new actions to
advance educational opportunities for Latino communities and give more
families a fair shot at achieving the American dream.  

**<u>Advancing Educational Equity, Excellence, and Economic Opportunity
through Hispanic-Serving Institutions</u>**

Hispanic-Serving Institutions (HSIs) play a critical role in shaping the
future of our Nation. With more than 500 HSIs across 27 states, the
District of Columbia, and Puerto Rico, HSIs make an extraordinary
contribution to our Nation’s higher education system, including
educating more than 4.7 million students. More than 55 percent of
Hispanic and Latino college students in the U.S. attend an HSI, and
nearly 40 percent of those students attend a two-year HSI.

To strengthen the Federal Government’s commitment to advancing
opportunity, today, President Biden will sign an Executive Order
establishing the White House Initiative on Advancing Educational Equity,
Excellence, and Economic Opportunity through Hispanic-Serving
Institutions. This Executive Order creates a new Initiative and
President’s Board of Advisors for HSIs that will work to:

-   Increase awareness of opportunities for HSIs to equally participate
    in Federal programs and enhance the capacity of HSIs to meet the
    educational needs of their students.
-   Identify best practices for HSIs to scale effective strategies,
    programs, and initiatives to support the educational success and
    economic mobility of their students.
-   Improve the ability of HSIs to align program offerings with the
    economic needs of the Nation and their local economies, especially
    in Science, Technology, Engineering, Math, and teaching.
-   Coordinate efforts to help HSIs become or remain fiscally secure
    institutions.
-   Foster cross-sector collaboration among HSIs and philanthropic,
    public, and private sector organizations.
-   Strengthen Federal recruitment activities at HSIs to build
    accessible and equal pathways into Federal career opportunities for
    HSI students, faculty, staff, and alumni.
-   Provide tools, data, and analytics to support HSIs in improving
    educational equity, excellence, and economic opportunity for
    students.

**<u>Making America’s Immigration System More Fair and More Just</u>**

Since Day One, President Biden has called on Congress to fix our broken
immigration system. While Congress has failed to act on these critically
needed reforms, the Biden-Harris Administration has taken action to make
our immigration system more fair and more just.

Today, the Administration is highlighting steps taken to fulfill the
President’s promise to keep families together and allow more Dreamers to
contribute to our economy, and announcing new actions to expand access
to legal representation and immigration services so that more people
have the tools and support they need to navigate our complex immigration
system. These actions build on steps the Administration has taken to
strengthen and improve our immigration system, including eliminating the
backlog of naturalization applications, vigorously defending the DACA
(Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals) policy in court, extending
Affordable Care Act coverage to DACA recipients, and streamlining,
expanding, and instituting new programs so that families can stay
together while they complete the immigration process.

*Today’s new announcements include:*

**Announcing key progress on actions to keep families together **

On June 18<sup>th</sup>, the President announced a new process to help
U.S. citizens with noncitizen spouses and children who have been here
for 10 years or more keep their families together. This new action –
which will help certain noncitizen spouses and children apply for lawful
permanent residence without leaving the country – is expected to apply
to approximately half a million spouses of U.S. citizens, and 50,000
noncitizen children whose parent is married to a U.S. citizen. And
today, **the** **President is announcing that beginning on August 19,
2024, eligible spouses and children will be able to apply for this
process to obtain legal status while remaining with their families.**

In June, President Biden also announced new actions to help young people
who have been educated in the U.S., including DACA recipients and other
Dreamers, receive work visas more quickly. These actions will help more
young people use their talents to enrich our communities and strengthen
our economy. The Department of State has updated its [public
guidance](https://fam.state.gov/fam/09FAM/09FAM030504.html) – making it
clear that it is in the public interest that individuals who graduated
from a U.S. institution of higher education and are seeking a work visa
are able to put their degree to use in the United States, and that these
factors should be considered favorably when recommending waivers in the
visa application process.

**Helping thousands of Dreamers transition successfully to college**

Today, the Administration is also announcing that the Department of
Education is issuing a proposed rule to expand the federal TRIO program
to ensure Dreamers and others can enroll. By providing high school
students with services and supports such as college campus visits,
tutoring, and help completing college and financial aid applications,
the TRIO program helps students from low-income backgrounds and students
who would be the first in their family go to college successfully
transition from high school to college. The proposed expansion would
mean that an estimated 50,000 more students each year would be able to
access TRIO programs and services, and thousands more would go to
college.

**Expanding access to legal representation**

Today, the Department of Justice Executive Office of Immigration Review
(EOIR) is doubling the number of locations for their “Attorney of the
Day” program, which makes volunteer lawyers available in immigration
courtrooms to provide assistance to those who do not have representation
at their initial immigration court hearings. The Department will expand
this program to include immigration courts in Hyattsville, Maryland; New
York City; and Atlanta in addition to the three current locations: San
Francisco, New Orleans, and Chicago. The Department is also increasing
free and low-cost legal representation by increasing participation of
law students in clinical programs and expanding training opportunities
such as its mock trial program.

Earlier this year, the Department of Justice announced the launch of the
[Respondent Access
Portal](https://www.justice.gov/eoir/respondentaccess), a secure online
platform that allows unrepresented noncitizens with proceedings before
EOIR to view case information and scheduled hearings, download their
electronic case record, and file documents directly with the immigration
court.

Additionally, the Justice Department is creating a new leadership
position focused on improving access to the immigration system and
finding innovative ways to increase representation rates for noncitizens
in immigration court.

Finally, the Administration is announcing a call to action for members
of the legal community, including law firms, nonprofits, advocacy
organizations, and other stakeholders to make commitments of pro bono
support for those who are unrepresented in immigration proceedings. In
response, the American Bar Association will leverage its existing
resources to help and encourage more lawyers to provide pro bono support
to unrepresented noncitizens in immigration proceedings. The
Administration welcomes additional commitments from interested
stakeholders to build upon these efforts.     

**Ensuring access to immigration services**

The Department of Homeland Security’s U.S. Citizenship and Immigration
Services (USCIS) is announcing the launch of a new initiative – “USCIS
to You” – to bring immigration-related assistance into local
communities, including rural and underserved areas. Services that may be
provided include naturalization interviews and oath ceremonies, customer
service appointments, and education on immigration benefits and
processes. “USCIS to You” events will be coordinated in partnership with
communities, including libraries, community colleges, and other local
entities.

USCIS is also providing up to $2.6 million to help small public and
non-profit organizations establish new citizenship programs and train
staff to assist lawful permanent residents in understanding and
navigating the naturalization process. USCIS has released this new
Notice of Funding Opportunity and plans to announce grant recipients by
September 2024.

**<u>Today’s announcements build on additional historic action President
Biden has taken to advance opportunity for Latino communities,
including:</u>**

-   Bringing the Latino unemployment rate to a near record low of 4.9%.

<!-- -->

-   Taking action to support Latino-owned businesses, which are now
    starting up at the fastest rate in fifteen years.

<!-- -->

-   Doubling Latino enrollment in health coverage through the Affordable
    Care Act, and fighting to protect the Affordable Care Act.

<!-- -->

-   Expanding access to Affordable Care Act benefits to DACA recipients.

<!-- -->

-   Expanding the Child Tax Credit which lifted 1.2 million Hispanic
    children out of poverty in 2021.

<!-- -->

-   Investing over $15 billion in Hispanic-serving colleges and
    universities—the largest ever investment. This investment
    strengthened the capacity of HSIs to better serve their students,
    including meeting their basic needs and completing their programs.

<!-- -->

-   Securing a $900 increase to the maximum Pell Grant award – the
    largest in the last decade – to benefit students from low- and
    middle-income backgrounds in their pursuit of a college degree.

<!-- -->

-   Canceling $167 billion in student loan debt for 4.75 million
    borrowers. Student loan debt disproportionately burdens Latino
    borrowers who are more likely to default on their student loans
    compared to white borrowers, with 15% of those in repayment in
    default and 29% in serious delinquency.

\###
