---
date: '2024-07-23'
modified_time: 2024-07-23 15:12:35-04:00
published_time: 2024-07-23 15:15:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/07/23/president-biden-announces-key-nominees-77/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Announces Key\_Nominees"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Joe Biden announced his intent to nominate
the following individuals to serve as key leaders in his administration:

-   David Samuel Johnson, Nominee to be Inspector General for Tax
    Administration, U.S. Department of the Treasury
-   Gabriel Escobar, Nominee to be Ambassador Extraordinary and
    Plenipotentiary to the Republic of Paraguay
-   Patrice H. Kunesh, Nominee to be Chairman of the National Indian
    Gaming Commission
-   Lisa T. Ballance, Nominee to be Chair and Member of the Marine
    Mammal Commission

<!-- -->

-   Matthew James Marzano, Nominee to be a Member of the Nuclear
    Regulatory Commission

**<u>David Samuel Johnson, Nominee to be Inspector General for Tax
Administration, U.S. Department of the Treasury</u>**

David Samuel Johnson is a career member of the Senior Executive Service
and the Assistant Inspector General for Investigations at the U.S.
Department of Veterans Affairs Office of Inspector General, where he
oversees a law enforcement directorate responsible for conducting
investigative oversight of the second-largest federal agency. He
previously served for more than a decade as a federal prosecutor, both
as an Assistant Chief in the Fraud Section of the U.S. Department of
Justice’s Criminal Division, as well as an Assistant United States
Attorney and Health Care Fraud Coordinator at the United States
Attorney’s Office for the District of Columbia. Johnson also served as
an Assistant Chief Litigation Counsel at the United States Securities
and Exchange Commission. He began his legal career as an associate at an
international law firm and a law clerk for the Honorable Rosemary M.
Collyer on the United States District Court for the District of
Columbia. From 2008 to 2010, Johnson was a board member and secretary of
the Asian Pacific American Bar Association Educational Fund.

Johnson received his B.A. in Government from the University of Virginia
and J.D. from William & Mary Law School. He previously served as an
adjunct law professor at Georgetown University Law Center. Johnson
resides in Virginia with his wife and daughter.

**<u>Gabriel Escobar, Nominee to be Ambassador Extraordinary and
Plenipotentiary to the Republic of Paraguay</u>**

Gabriel Escobar, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of
Minister-Counselor, most recently served as Deputy Assistant Secretary
of State in the Bureau of European and Eurasian Affairs at the U.S.
Department of State, Washington, D.C. Prior to that, Escobar served as
the Deputy Chief of Mission of the U.S. Embassy in Belgrade, Serbia, as
Minister Counselor for Economic Affairs of the U.S. Embassy in Baghdad,
Iraq, and as the Coordinator for Cuban Affairs, in the Bureau of Western
Hemisphere Affairs at the State Department. Escobar was also Deputy
Chief of Mission of the U.S. Embassy in La Paz, Bolivia, and Consul
General of the U.S. Consulate General in Peshawar, Pakistan. Escobar’s
earlier assignments include service as Counselor for Political and
Economic Affairs at the U.S. Embassy in Lisbon, Portugal and as a team
leader for the U.S. Provincial Reconstruction Team in Kirkuk, Iraq.
Escobar also served in the U.S. Naval Reserve for 17 years and was
honorably discharged in 2003. Escobar earned his bachelor’s degree from
Columbia University. He speaks Spanish, Russian, Portuguese, Italian,
Serbian, Croatian, and Czech.

**<u>Lisa T. Ballance, Nominee to be Chair and Member of the Marine
Mammal Commission</u>**

Lisa T. Ballance is the Director of Oregon State University’s (OSU)
Marine Mammal Institute, Endowed Chair of Marine Mammal Research, and
Professor of Fisheries, Wildlife, and Conservation Sciences. In this
role she oversees the vision and implementation of research, education,
and outreach for the Institute’s professors, post-doctorates, students,
and staff. Prior to joining OSU’s Marine Mammal Institute, Ballance
directed the National Oceanic Atmospheric Administration’s (NOAA)
Fisheries’ Marine Mammal and Turtle Research Division in La Jolla,
California, providing scientific leadership and oversight for scientists
conducting applied research in the context of Endangered Species and
Marine Mammal Protection Act directives. She was also Chief Scientist of
NOAA’s Eastern Tropical Pacific Dolphin Research Program, which provided
the scientific basis for the “Dolphin Safe” label found on tuna cans in
supermarkets all over the country. Ballance holds a PhD in Marine
Ecology, an M.S. in Marine Science, and a B.S. in Biology. She has
studied the ecology and conservation biology of cetaceans and seabirds
for over 35 years around the world. She has published more than 150
scientific papers, book chapters, and technical reports; regularly gives
invited presentations at professional conferences, universities, public
lectures, and policy-related briefings; and mentored post-doctorate,
doctorate, masters, and undergraduate honors students. Ballance is a
Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science,
recipient of the U.S. Department of Commerce Bronze and Silver Medals,
NOAA Fisheries’ Supervisor of the Year, and cover feature of the
Association for Women in Science.

**<u>Patrice H. Kunesh, Nominee to be Chairman of the National Indian
Gaming Commission</u>**

Patrice H. Kunesh, of Standing Rock Lakota descent, has committed her
career to public service, including several positions at the tribal,
state, and federal level. Kunesh currently serves as the Deputy
Assistant Secretary for Native American Affairs and the Commissioner of
the Administration for Native Americans in the Administration
for Children and Families at the U.S. Department of Health and Human
Services (HHS).

Prior to joining HHS, Kunesh worked at the Native American Rights Fund,
where she began her legal career, and served as in-house Counsel to the
Mashantucket Pequot Tribal Nation and on the faculty at the University
of South Dakota School of Law. Kunesh also held appointments as the
Deputy Under Secretary for Rural Development at the U.S. Department of
Agriculture, as the Deputy Solicitor for Indian Affairs at the U.S.
Department of the Interior, and as a member of the U.S. Treasury
Community Development Advisory Board (CDFI Fund) as the representative
for Native communities. Additionally, she established the Center for
Indian Country Development, an economic policy research initiative at
the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis. Kunesh also founded Peȟíŋ Haha
Consulting, a social enterprise committed to fostering culturally
centered Native economic development. 

Kunesh holds a J.D. from the University of Colorado School of Law and an
MPA from the Harvard Kennedy School of Government.

**<u>Matthew James Marzano, Nominee to be a Member of the Nuclear
Regulatory Commission</u>**

Matthew James Marzano currently serves as an Idaho National Laboratory
Detailee on the U.S. Senate Committee on Environment and Public Works
(EPW), where he advises the committee on policy matters relating to
clean air, climate, and energy. Most recently, he advised the Chairman
on the ADVANCE Act, a bipartisan piece of legislation designed to
prepare the Nuclear Regulatory Commission to handle an expected surge in
new nuclear reactor models. Prior to this role, Marzano was selected as
an American Association for the Advancement of Science Congressional
Fellow, representing the American Nuclear Society and serving on the
U.S. Senate EPW Committee.

Marzano combines his policy background with more than a decade of
experience in the nuclear industry, during which he focused on nuclear
energy systems for both defense and commercial applications. Prior to
his service in the U.S. Senate, Marzano earned his Senior Reactor
Operator license at Braidwood Nuclear Power Station, located in
Illinois, where he led installation testing of a modernized control
system to improve plant performance and safety. He began his career as a
civilian instructor for the Naval Nuclear Propulsion Program at the U.S.
Department of Energy. In that capacity, he oversaw the training of U.S.
Navy personnel preparing for assignment as nuclear plant operators on
submarines and aircraft carriers. Following this role, Marzano
transitioned to the commercial nuclear power industry at the V.C. Summer
new nuclear construction project in South Carolina, where Marzano
supported construction activities while pursuing a Senior Reactor
Operator license.

Marzano earned Bachelor’s and Master’s degrees in Nuclear Engineering
from the University of Florida, where his research focused on the
modeling of nuclear energy systems. He lives in Washington, D.C. with
his wife and 1-year old son.

\# \# \#
