---
date: '2024-07-25'
modified_time: 2024-07-25 14:28:36-04:00
published_time: 2024-07-25 15:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/07/25/president-biden-announces-nominees-4/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Announces\_Nominees"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Joe Biden announced his intent to nominate
the following individuals to serve as leaders in his administration:

-   Val Butler Demings, Nominee to be a Governor of the United States
    Postal Service Board of Governors
-   William Zollars, Nominee to be a Governor (Republican) of the United
    States Postal Service Board of Governors

**<u>Val Butler Demings, Nominee to be a Governor of the United States
Postal Service Board of Governors</u>**

Val Butler Demings is a lifelong public servant who broke numerous glass
ceilings. In 2016, Demings was elected by the voters of Florida’s 10th
District to serve in the U.S. House of Representatives. She fought to
grow the economy, reduce household costs, and end gun violence. She
served on the House Committees on Judiciary, Intelligence, Homeland
Security, and Oversight and Government Reform, and chaired the House
Homeland Subcommittee on Emergency Preparedness, Response, and Recovery.
She was a member of the Congressional Black Caucus, Women’s Caucus, and
New Democratic Caucus, a member of the Law Enforcement Congressional
Badge of Bravery Review Board and the Elections Security Taskforce, and
served as Assistant and Regional Whip for the House Democratic Caucus,
Co-Chair of Candidate Recruitment for the Democratic Congressional
Campaign Committee, and Vice Chair of the Gun Violence Prevention Task
Force. Demings was the Democratic nominee for Senate in Florida in 2022.

At the start of her career, Demings worked as a social worker before
joining the police academy. She graduated from the police academy as
Class President, receiving the Board of Trustees’ Award for Overall
Excellence. Demings served at every rank level in the Orlando Police
Department for 27 years, commanding the Special Operations division and
handling the department’s highest-profile tasks, including coordinating
the response of the Airport Division on September 11<sup>th</sup>, 2001.
In 2007, Demings made history when she was appointed to serve as
Orlando’s first female Chief of Police.

Demings became the first person in her family to go to college, earning
a B.S. in Criminology from Florida State University and later a Master’s
in Public Administration. Demings holds an honorary doctorate of laws
from Bethune-Cookman University (HBCU), as well as honorary doctorates
from Florida Technical College and City College Fort Lauderdale. Demings
and her husband, Orange County Mayor Jerry Demings, have three children
and five grandchildren.

**<u>William Zollars, Nominee to be a Governor (Republican) of the
United States Postal Service Board of Governors</u>**

William Zollars grew up in Minneapolis, Minnesota as one of four
children. He attended Edina High School and the University of Minnesota
where he graduated *magna cum laude* with a Bachelor’s degree in
Economics, and as a member of Phi Beta Kappa. After graduation, Zollars
spent 24 years at Eastman Kodak where he held roles in finance,
strategic planning, marketing, logistics, and general management. While
at Eastman Kodak, he also spent five years in Europe, three years in
Canada, and one year in Japan. In 1994, Zollars helped establish the
Integrated Logistics business at Ryder Systems in Miami. In 1997,
Zollars became President of Yellow Freight in Kansas City, Missouri, the
largest division at Yellow Corporation. In 1999, he was promoted to
Chairman, President, and CEO of the company and held the position for 12
years.

Additionally, Zollars served on the public company boards of Cerner,
Cigna, Prologis, and several private company boards. He will be
completing his first term as a Governor of the United States Postal
Board of Governors at the end of the year 2023.

Zollars has served in multiple community roles including as Chairman of
the Greater KC United Way; a board member of the KC Civic Council, KC
Repertory Theater; and he formed the KC Business Roundtable. He served
for five years as a member of the board of trustees of the Carlson
School of Business at the University of Minnesota.

\# \# \#
