---
date: '2024-07-02'
modified_time: 2024-07-01 21:56:41-04:00
published_time: 2024-07-02 05:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/07/02/fact-sheet-president-biden-announces-new-actions-to-protect-workers-and-communities-from-extreme-weather/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: President\_Biden Announces New Actions to Protect Workers and\
  \ Communities from Extreme\_Weather"
---
 
*Despite the severe impacts of extreme weather events, Republicans in
Congress continue to deny the very existence of climate change and
expose their constituents to health and safety dangers*

Across the country, tens of millions of Americans are experiencing the
effects of extreme weather events. From the record-shattering heat wave
across the Midwest and Northeast, to devastating flooding in Iowa and
Minnesota, to raging wildfires in New Mexico, Oregon, and California,
communities in every corner of the country are being directly impacted
by the compounding effects of extreme weather. The Atlantic is also
facing an active hurricane seasonal outlook that will require residents
to maintain vigilance against flooding and wind threats. In addition to
posing direct threats to lives and livelihoods, major weather events –
which are becoming increasingly extreme due to the climate crisis – have
had significant economic impacts: last year’s record 28 individual
billion-dollar extreme weather and climate disasters caused more than
$90 billion in aggregate damage.  
  
**<u>Meanwhile, many Republicans in Congress continue to deny the very
existence of climate change and remain committed to repealing the
President’s Inflation Reduction Act – the biggest climate protection
bill ever – which would undermine the health and safety of their own
constituents.</u>**  
  
As the impacts of flooding, drought, wildland fires, heat waves, and
other extreme weather events intensify, President Biden is delivering on
the most ambitious climate agenda in American history — an agenda that
is lowering energy costs for hardworking families, bolstering America’s
energy security, creating thousands of good-paying jobs, and
strengthening [community-driven climate
resilience](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/06/19/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-makes-historic-investments-to-build-community-climate-resilience/)
across the country.  
  
**Today, the President is receiving an operational briefing on extreme
weather forecasts for this summer, and he will announce new actions to
protect workers and families from the impacts of extreme weather,
including:  **

-   **The Department of Labor’s Occupational Safety and Health
    Administration (OSHA) is proposing a rule to protect workers that,
    if finalized, would establish the nation’s first-ever federal safety
    standard addressing excessive heat in the workplace.** The risk that
    extreme heat poses to certain workers has long been recognized –
    even apart from the impacts of climate change. Recognizing these
    risks, the proposed rule includes requirements for identifying heat
    hazards, developing heat illness and emergency response plans,
    providing training to employees and supervisors, and implementing
    work practice standards — including rest breaks, access to shade and
    water, and heat acclimatization for new employees. If finalized,
    OSHA projects the rule would affect approximately 36 million workers
    and substantially reduce heat injuries, illnesses, and deaths in the
    workplace.
-   **The Department of Homeland Security’s Federal Emergency Management
    Agency is announcing nearly $1 billion dollars in awards for 656
    projects across the country to help communities protect against
    disasters and natural hazards, including extreme heat, storms, and
    flooding.** Historic funding from the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law
    through the Building Resilient Infrastructure and Communities
    program will go to projects that will eliminate or reduce flood
    damage, mitigate the effects of extreme heat, and enhance
    infrastructure resilience. Projects include $50 million to
    Philadelphia, PA, to improve the resilience of a stormwater pump
    station and mitigate flooding; $6 million to Goldsboro, NC, for an
    improved flood drainage channel; and $724,000 to build shaded bus
    stops in areas of high heat exposure in Washington, D.C. This
    program is part of the President’s [Justice40
    Initiative](https://www.whitehouse.gov/environmentaljustice/justice40/),
    which aims to ensure 40 percent of the overall benefits of certain
    federal climate, clean energy and other investment areas flow to
    disadvantaged communities that are marginalized by underinvestment
    and overburdened by pollution.  
-   **The Environmental Protection Agency is releasing a new report
    showing the continuing and far-reaching impacts of climate change on
    the people and environment of the United States.** The report
    highlights how climate change impacts – including heat waves, sea
    surface temperatures, coastal flooding, and wildfires – are
    increasingly affecting people’s health, society, and ecosystems in a
    variety of ways. For example, the report notes that the average
    length of the heat wave season is 46 days longer today than it was
    in the 1960s and, in recent years, the average heat wave in major
    U.S. urban areas has lasted about four days – about a full day
    longer than the average heat wave in the 1960s.

President Biden is also announcing that later this summer, he will bring
together state, local, Tribal, and Territorial leaders – who are
protecting U.S. communities and workers from extreme weather every day
and helping strengthen America’s global leadership on climate – for a
White House Summit on Extreme Heat. Today’s announcements build on
numerous actions that the Biden-Harris Administration has taken to
bolster our preparedness and resilience nationwide, including working
with state, local, Tribal, and territorial partners to provide clear and
accessible information on how individuals and communities can protect
themselves from extreme weather events.  
  
**Protecting Communities from Extreme Heat:** President Biden has taken
[historic
action](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/09/20/fact-sheet-biden-administration-mobilizes-to-protect-workers-and-communities-from-extreme-heat/)
to [protect workers and
communities](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/07/27/fact-sheet-president-biden-to-announce-new-actions-to-protect-workers-and-communities-from-extreme-heat/)
from the impacts of extreme heat, including [lowering home energy
costs](https://www.hhs.gov/about/news/2023/10/24/biden-harris-administration-announces-3.7b-help-lower-home-energy-costs-launches-national-liheap-eligibility-tool.html)
and helping more Americans [stay safe, cool, and
healthy](https://www.hud.gov/press/press_releases_media_advisories/HUD_No_24_159)
in their homes. President Biden has also taken important steps to
increase the resilience of the power system against extreme heat and
wildfires, including through more than $14 billion to enhance grid
flexibility and grid resilience, including the deployment of
resilience-enhancing microgrids and energy storage. The Administration
has also announced $1 billion in grants [to expand equitable access to
trees and green
spaces](https://www.usda.gov/media/press-releases/2023/04/12/biden-harris-administration-announces-historic-funding-expand) in
urban communities, which will reduce heat-island effects and cool
cities. The Administration is also strengthening America’s leadership
overseas, including by [convening global
stakeholders](https://www.usaid.gov/news-information/press-releases/jun-27-2024-administrator-power-treasury-secretary-yellen-convene-dialogue-financing-climate-resilience)
to advance heat-related resilience efforts and [reducing heat
risk](https://www.usaid.gov/heatsummit/document/guidance-extreme-heat-federal-agencies-operating-overseas-and-united-states-government-implementing-partners)
for U.S. workers abroad. To better equip local officials and the public
with robust and accessible information, the Administration
launched [Heat.gov](https://www.heat.gov/), a centralized portal with
real-time, interactive data and resources on extreme heat conditions,
preparedness, and response.  
  
**Combating the Growing Threat of Wildfires:** In addition to
implementing a [Wildfire Crisis
Strategy](https://www.fs.usda.gov/managing-land/wildfire-crisis) that
will limit the impact and severity of fires, the Administration has
invested $7 billion to expand the wildland firefighter workforce,
deployed new technology to better respond to fires, and completed a
historic 6.85 million acres of hazardous fuels treatments. The
Administration also launched a new [Community Wildfire Defense
Grant](https://www.fs.usda.gov/managing-land/fire/grants) program that
helps local communities develop and implement wildfire preparedness
plans. In addition, the Administration is tackling the pronounced health
effects of wildfire smoke by investing over $10 million to enhance
wildfire smoke preparedness and protection in communities across the
West. [AirNow.gov](https://www.airnow.gov/) and its specialized [Fire
and Smoke Map](https://fire.airnow.gov/) provide Americans with
real-time information about smoke and air quality so people can make
informed decisions about how to stay safe.  
  
**Reducing Flood Risk for Households and Communities:** Most homeowners’
and renters’ insurance does not cover flood damage. The Federal
Emergency Management Agency’s [National Flood Insurance
Program](https://www.floodsmart.gov/) is helping communities proactively
protect their homes, businesses, and belongings from unexpected flood
damage by
providing [guidance](https://www.fema.gov/sites/default/files/2020-08/FEMA_P-312.pdf) to
communities on how they can mitigate their flood risk. In addition to
investing billions of dollars to reduce flood risks across America and
protect communities from rising insurance costs, President Biden
also [reinstated](https://www.fema.gov/floodplain-management/intergovernmental/federal-flood-risk-management-standard) and
is
[implementing](https://www.whitehouse.gov/ostp/news-updates/2024/04/11/a-new-tool-to-help-plan-for-and-protect-against-floods/#:~:text=As%20part%20of%20this%20effort,a%20high%20flood%20risk%20area.)
the Federal Flood Risk Management Standard, which ensures that Federal
agencies are considering and managing current and future flood risks in
order to build a more resilient nation.  
  
**Strengthening Water Security Across the West**: Over the past two
decades, the Colorado River Basin has experienced the driest period in
the region in over one thousand years. President Biden’s Investing in
America Agenda is providing over $15 billion—and has already funded
nearly 500 projects—to enhance the West’s resilience to drought,
including projects to reuse, recycle, recharge, store, conserve, and
desalinate water resources, and to revitalize aging water
infrastructure. The Administration has also taken historic action to
conserve millions of acre-feet of water in the Colorado River Basin,
securing our nation’s water resources for future generations and staving
off the immediate collapse of the Colorado River.  
  
**Promoting Climate-Smart Buildings and Infrastructure:** Buildings and
infrastructure investments last for generations when done right, so it
is critical to plan and build in ways that promote climate resilience.
President Biden’s [National Initiative to Advance Building
Codes](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/06/01/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-launches-initiative-to-modernize-building-codes-improve-climate-resilience-and-reduce-energy-costs/) is
accelerating adoption of modern building codes that protect people from
extreme-weather events and save communities an estimated [$1.6
billion](https://www.fema.gov/emergency-managers/risk-management/building-science/building-codes-save-study) a
year in avoided damages. The Administration is also making [billions of
dollars](/Users/TACherry/Work%20Folders/Downloads/From%09Subject%09Received%09Size%09Categories)
available to build climate-smart buildings and [green
infrastructure](https://www.transportation.gov/RAISEgrants) which will
keep American’s homes cool in the summer and warm in the winter.  
  
**Empowering Communities to Better Understand and Plan for Climate
Risk:** The Biden-Harris Administration is advancing actionable data,
information, tools, and technical assistance to help people understand
and address their climate risks. These tools will [help communities
understand and plan for local climate-related
hazards](https://resilience.climate.gov/) ; [assess changes in coastal
flood
risk](https://oceanservice.noaa.gov/hazards/sealevelrise/sealevelrise-tech-report.html) 
ensure that Federal agencies are [producing coordinated, actionable
climate
information](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/03/FTAC_Report_03222023_508.pdf);
and increase support for [regional applied science and services
centers](https://www.usda.gov/media/press-releases/2022/01/12/usda-invests-9m-expand-reach-and-increase-adoption-climate-smart).  
  
**Incorporating Climate Risk into Decision-Making**: Extreme weather,
intensified by climate change, threatens the U.S. economy and the
financial security of families, businesses, and workers. President
Biden’s [Executive Order on Climate-Related Financial
Risk](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/05/20/executive-order-on-climate-related-financial-risk/) ensures
that climate risk and resilience actions are appropriately factored into
the formulation and execution of the President’s Budget, thereby
properly managing and protecting Federal funding on behalf of taxpayers.
This includes [formally
accounting](https://www.whitehouse.gov/omb/briefing-room/2022/04/04/quantifying-risks-to-the-federal-budget-from-climate-change/) for
the risks that climate change pose in the President’s Budget for the
first time.
