---
tags: presidential-actions
date: '2022-01-31'
modified_time: 2022-01-31 11:39:59-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/01/31/a-proclamation-on-national-black-history-month-2022/
published_time: 2022-01-31 11:39:58-05:00
title: "A Proclamation on National Black History Month,\_2022"
---
 
Each February, National Black History Month serves as both a celebration
and a powerful reminder that Black history is American history, Black
culture is American culture, and Black stories are essential to the
ongoing story of America — our faults, our struggles, our progress, and
our aspirations.  Shining a light on Black history today is as important
to understanding ourselves and growing stronger as a Nation as it has
ever been.  That is why it is essential that we take time to celebrate
the immeasurable contributions of Black Americans, honor the legacies
and achievements of generations past, reckon with centuries of
injustice, and confront those injustices that still fester today.  
  
Our Nation was founded on an idea:  that all of us are created equal and
deserve to be treated with equal dignity throughout our lives.  It is a
promise we have never fully lived up to but one that we have never, ever
walked away from.  The long shadows of slavery, Jim Crow, and redlining
— and the blight of systemic racism that still diminishes our Nation
today — hold America back from reaching our full promise and potential. 
But by facing those tragedies openly and honestly and working together
as one people to deliver on America’s promise of equity and dignity for
all, we become a stronger Nation — a more perfect version of
ourselves.  
  
Across the generations, countless Black Americans have demonstrated
profound moral courage and resilience to help shape our Nation for the
better.  Today, Black Americans lead industries and movements for
change, serve our communities and our Nation at every level, and advance
every field across the board, including arts and sciences, business and
law, health and education, and many more.  In the face of wounds and
obstacles older than our Nation itself, Black Americans can be seen in
every part of our society today, strengthening and uplifting all of
America.  
  
Vice President Harris and I are deeply committed to advancing equity,
racial justice, and opportunity for Black Americans as we continue
striving to realize America’s founding promise.  That began by building
a Federal Government that looks like America:  including the first Black
Secretary of Defense, the first Black woman to head the Office of
Management and Budget, the first Black man to lead the Environmental
Protection Agency, the first Black woman to lead the Department of
Housing and Urban Development in more than 40 years, the first Black
chair of the White House Council of Economic Advisors, a Black
Ambassador representing America at the United Nations, and the first
Black and South Asian Vice President in our history.  We have been proud
to appoint accomplished Black Americans to serve in a vast array of
roles across our Administration.  I am prouder still to have already
nominated eight Black women to serve as Federal appellate judges —
matching in just 1 year the total number of Black women who have ever
served on Federal appeals courts.  
  
My Administration has worked hard to reverse decades of underinvestment
in Black communities, schools, and businesses.  Both the American Rescue
Plan and the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law are making historic
investments in Black America — from vaccine shots in arms to checks in
families’ pockets and tax cuts for working families with children to a
landmark $5.8 billion investment in and support for Historically Black
Colleges and Universities.  And in my first year in office, the American
Rescue Plan provided the full Child Tax Credit to the lower income
families of more than 26 million children — who are disproportionately
Black — and put us on a path to cut Black child poverty in half.  
  
As the Infrastructure Law continues to be implemented, we will expand on
that progress.  Lead service lines that have contaminated the water of
too many homes and schools in Black communities will be removed and
replaced.  We will deliver high-speed internet to every community so
that no Black family is left behind in the 21st century economy. 
Historic investments in public transportation will help more people in
more neighborhoods get to where good jobs actually are quickly and
safely.  We will reconnect Black neighborhoods cut off from opportunity
by highways that were built to brush them aside.  Long-standing
environmental injustices that have hit Black communities the hardest
will be remediated.  We will deliver major investments in Black
entrepreneurs and small businesses — including making the Minority
Business Development Agency permanent and seeding it with a record $110
million in new resources to help level the playing field for Black
businesses.  
  
But this is only the start.  To fulfill America’s promise for all, we
will work tirelessly in the year ahead to deliver on my Build Back
Better agenda, bringing down the costs that families face on child care,
housing, education, health care, prescription drugs, and so much more. 
We will continue to battle the COVID-19 pandemic with equity at the
center of our response.  We will not rest until we have protected the
foundation of our democracy:  the sacred right to vote.  And we will
fight to keep dismantling all of those structural inequities that have
served as barriers for Black families for generations.  
As we celebrate National Black History Month, let us all recommit
ourselves to reach for that founding promise.  Let us continue to fight
for the equity, opportunity, and dignity to which every Black American
is due in equal measure.  Let us carry forward the work to build an
America that is, in the beautiful words of the poet Amanda Gorman,
*“Bruised, but whole — benevolent, but bold, fierce, and free.*“  
  
NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim February 2022 as
National Black History Month.  I call upon public officials, educators,
librarians, and all the people of the United States to observe this
month with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities.  
  
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirty-first day of
January, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-two, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.  
   

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
