---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2022-01-14'
modified_time: 2022-01-14 10:06:07-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/01/14/a-proclamation-on-religious-freedom-day-2022/
published_time: 2022-01-14 10:06:06-05:00
title: A Proclamation on Religious Freedom Day, 2022
---
 
From the earliest days of our Nation, courageous people from every part
of the world have come to the United States in search of religious
liberty, risking everything to flee oppression, persecution, and
discrimination because of their beliefs.  Our Founders enshrined the
principle of religious freedom in the First Amendment to our
Constitution, establishing it as a cornerstone of who we are as a
Nation.  Today, America remains a religiously diverse Nation — a land
uniquely strengthened by the routine and extraordinary commingling of
faiths and belief systems.  On Religious Freedom Day, we recommit
ourselves to the protection and advancement of this vital aspect of our
American character — and to protecting the freedom of people of all
faiths and none, both across our Nation and around the world.

Our country’s greatest strength is and always has been our diversity,
including the multitude of faiths and beliefs practiced across our
Nation.  My Administration is committed to strengthening the Federal
workforce by ensuring that it resembles the full breadth of our people
by promoting diversity, equity, inclusion, and accessibility, including
on the basis of religion.  That is why I reestablished the White House
Office of Faith-Based and Neighborhood Partnerships to serve people in
need by partnering with both religious and secular organizations.  These
public-private partnerships embody the American system of religious
freedom and are effective — whether by working together to get people
vaccinated against COVID-19, providing nutritious meals to children, or
welcoming and resettling refugees to the United States.

Everyone should feel safe when attending a religious service, school, a
community center event, or while walking down the street wearing the
symbols of their faith.  To help ensure that everyone can practice their
faith without fear, my Administration has implemented increased funding
for the Department of Homeland Security’s Nonprofit Security Grant
Program, which makes funding available to threatened nonprofits —
including houses of worship and other religious affiliated entities — to
improve their safety and security.  I also signed the COVID-19 Hate
Crimes Act, which included the Jabara-Heyer NO HATE Act to provide tools
that we know are effective in preventing and prosecuting hate crimes.
 We must constantly affirm that hate has no safe harbor in America.  My
Administration remains steadfast in our efforts to lead and advance
human rights including the freedom of religion around the globe at a
time when many people are subject to horrifying persecution for their
faith and beliefs.

In my life, faith has always been a beacon of hope and a calling to
purpose, as it is for so many Americans, and I believe that protecting
religious freedom is as important now as it has ever been.  We must
continue our work to ensure that people of all faiths — or none — are
treated as full participants in society, equal in rights and dignity.
 We can only fully realize the freedom we wish for ourselves by helping
to ensure liberty for all.  On Religious Freedom Day, let us rededicate
ourselves to these fundamental principles.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim January 16, 2022, as
Religious Freedom Day.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this fourteenth day of
January, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-two, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
