---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2022-01-31'
modified_time: 2022-01-31 11:48:19-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/01/31/a-proclamation-on-national-teen-dating-violence-awareness-and-prevention-month-2022/
published_time: 2022-01-31 11:48:18-05:00
title: "A Proclamation on National Teen Dating Violence Awareness And Prevention Month,\_\
  2022"
---
 
During National Teen Dating Violence Awareness and Prevention Month, we
recommit ourselves to ensuring our society is one in which all young
people can live fulfilling and productive lives free of violence and
fear.    
  
Teen dating violence takes many forms, including physical or sexual
assault, stalking, coercive and controlling behavior, emotional abuse,
harassment, and exploitation.  It can occur in person, online, or
through various forms of technology. Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention research shows that more than 8 percent of high school
students in the United States reported experiencing physical or sexual
dating violence over the course of a 1-year period, with young women and
LGBTQI+ youth facing the highest rates. Young people who are survivors
of teen dating violence can suffer from depression, substance abuse,
risk of suicide, eating disorders, poor academic outcomes, unintended
pregnancy, and other struggles. Sadly, survivors of teenage dating
violence are more likely to be revictimized as adults. These effects are
compounded for girls and young women of color, who are less often
recognized as survivors of dating and sexual violence and face
additional barriers to seeking help.  
  
My Administration is committed to supporting programs that are proven to
help preteens and teens develop safe and healthy relationships.  We have
released a range of new resources to equip communities with effective
tools to prevent and address teen dating violence.  These tools will
help teens stay safe online and when they use electronic devices; help
colleges and universities respond effectively to dating violence, sexual
assault, stalking and other forms of abuse; and provide resources and
training programs that prevent abuse and promote healthy relationships. 
Information on these programs, as well as other resources, are available
at [VetoViolence.CDC.gov](https://vetoviolence.cdc.gov/apps/main/home). 
We are also enforcing Title IX’s protections for students on the basis
of gender identity and sexual orientation to support transgender
students who experience higher rates of violence.  
  
During National Teen Dating Violence Awareness and Prevention Month, we
recommit ourselves to ending this scourge of our society and providing
our young people every chance to live the fulfilling and productive
lives they deserve.  
  
NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim February 2022 as
National Teen Dating Violence Awareness and Prevention Month.  I call
upon everyone to educate themselves and others about teen dating
violence so that together we can stop it.  
  
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirty-first day of
January, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-two, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
