---
tags: presidential-actions
date: '2022-01-19'
modified_time: 2022-01-19 10:24:26-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/01/19/memorandum-on-improving-the-cybersecurity-of-national-security-department-of-defense-and-intelligence-community-systems/
published_time: 2022-01-19 10:30:00-05:00
title: "Memorandum on Improving the Cybersecurity of National Security, Department\
  \ of Defense, and Intelligence Community\_Systems"
---
 
NATIONAL SECURITY MEMORANDUM/NSM-8

MEMORANDUM FOR THE VICE PRESIDENT  
               THE SECRETARY OF STATE  
               THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY  
               THE SECRETARY OF DEFENSE  
               THE ATTORNEY GENERAL  
               THE SECRETARY OF COMMERCE  
               THE SECRETARY OF ENERGY  
               THE SECRETARY OF HOMELAND SECURITY  
               THE DIRECTOR OF THE OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT AND BUDGET  
               THE DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL INTELLIGENCE  
               THE DIRECTOR OF THE CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY  
               THE ASSISTANT TO THE PRESIDENT FOR NATIONAL SECURITY
AFFAIRS  
               THE COUNSEL TO THE PRESIDENT  
               THE ASSISTANT TO THE PRESIDENT AND HOMELAND SECURITY
ADVISOR AND DEPUTY NATIONAL SECURITY ADVISOR  
               THE NATIONAL CYBER DIRECTOR  
               THE DIRECTOR OF THE NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY  
               THE DIRECTOR OF THE FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION  
               THE DIRECTOR OF THE CYBERSECURITY AND INFRASTRUCTURE
SECURITY AGENCY  
               THE CHIEF INFORMATION OFFICER OF THE INTELLIGENCE
COMMUNITY

SUBJECT:       Improving the Cybersecurity of National Security,
Department of Defense, and Intelligence Community Systems

This memorandum sets forth requirements for National Security Systems
(NSS) that are equivalent to or exceed the cybersecurity requirements
for Federal Information Systems set forth within Executive Order 14028
of May 12, 2021 (Improving the Nation’s Cybersecurity), and establishes
methods to secure exceptions for circumstances necessitated by unique
mission needs.  Executive Order 14028 establishes that the Federal
Government must improve its efforts to identify, deter, protect against,
detect, and respond to malicious cyber campaigns and their actors
through bold changes and significant investments in cybersecurity.  This
memorandum establishes and clarifies additional authority and
responsibilities of the Director of the National Security Agency (NSA)
in connection with the National Manager responsibilities for NSS
assigned to the Director of the NSA by National Security Directive 42 of
July 5, 1990 (National Policy for the Security of National Security
Telecommunications and Information Systems) (NSD-42), Executive Order
12333 of December 4, 1981, as amended (United States Intelligence
Activities), and Executive Order 14028.

Consistent with Executive Order 14028, NSS shall include those systems
defined as NSS in 44 U.S.C. 3552(b)(6) as well as all other Department
of Defense and Intelligence Community systems, as described in 44 U.S.C.
3553(e)(2) and 3553(e)(3).

     Section 1.  Implementation of Executive Order 14028 for National
Security Systems.  (a)  Sections 1 and 2 of Executive Order 14028 shall
apply in their entirety to NSS, except that the authorities exercised by
the Director of the Office of Management and Budget and the Secretary of
Homeland Security in section 2 shall be exercised by the National
Manager with respect to NSS.

     (b)  Consistent with section 3 of Executive Order 14028:

          (i)    Within 90 days of the date of this memorandum, the
Committee on National Security Systems (CNSS) shall develop and publish
guidance, in addition to CNSS Instruction (CNSSI) 1253, regarding
minimum security standards and controls related to cloud migration and
operations for NSS, taking into account migration steps that the
National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) within the
Department of Commerce has outlined in standards and guidance.

          (ii)   Within 60 days of the date of this memorandum, the head
of each executive department or agency (agency) that owns or operates an
NSS shall, consistent with its statutory authority:

               (A)  update existing agency plans to prioritize resources
for the adoption and use of cloud technology, including adoption of Zero
Trust Architecture as practicable;

               (B)  develop a plan to implement Zero Trust Architecture,
which shall incorporate, as appropriate:

                     (1)  NIST Special Publication 800-207 Guidance
(Zero Trust Architecture);

                     (2)  CNSS instructions on Zero Trust Reference
Architectures; and

                     (3)  Other relevant CNSS instructions, directives,
and policies regarding enterprise architectures, insider threats, and
access management; and

               (C)  provide a report to the CNSS and National Manager
discussing the plans required pursuant to section 1(b)(ii)(A) and (B) of
this memorandum.

          (iii)  Within 180 days of the date of this memorandum,
agencies shall implement multifactor authentication and encryption for
NSS data-at-rest and data-in-transit.  In those instances where the head
of an agency determines the agency is unable to implement these
measures, the head of the agency shall authorize an exception pursuant
to the process provided in section 3 of this memorandum.

          (iv)   To ensure widespread cryptographic interoperability
among NSS, all agencies shall use NSA‑approved, public standards-based
cryptographic protocols.  If mission-unique requirements preclude the
use of public standards-based cryptographic protocols, NSA-approved
mission unique protocols may be used.  An agency shall not authorize new
systems to operate that do not use approved encryption algorithms and
implementations, absent an exception authorized by the head of an agency
pursuant to section 3 of this memorandum.

               (A)  Within 30 days of the date of this memorandum, the
NSA shall review CNSS Policy 15 and provide to CNSS any updates or
modifications regarding the approved list of commercial national
security algorithms (CNSA).

               (B)  Within 60 days of the date of this memorandum, the
NSA shall revise and make available to Chief Information Officers the
CNSS Advisory Memorandum 01-07 (Information Assurance Cryptographic
Equipment Modernization) and any associated enclosures and relevant
references regarding modernization planning, use of unsupported
encryption, approved mission unique protocols, quantum resistant
protocols, and planning for use of quantum resistant cryptography where
necessary.

               (C)  Within 90 days of the date of this memorandum, CNSS
shall identify and prioritize for update all cryptographic-related
policies, directives, and issuances, and CNSS shall provide to the
Secretary of Defense, the Director of National Intelligence, and the
National Manager a timeline, not to exceed 6 months, for the re-issuance
of these policies, as appropriate.

               (D)  Within 180 days of the date of this memorandum,
agencies shall identify any instances of encryption not in compliance
with NSA-approved Quantum Resistant Algorithms or CNSA, where
appropriate in accordance with section 1(b)(iv)(A) and (B) of this
memorandum, and shall report to the National Manager, at a
classification level not to exceed TOP SECRET//SI//NOFORN:

                     (1)  systems where non-compliant encryption is
being used, to include those operating under an existing waiver or
exception;

                     (2)  a timeline to transition these systems to use
compliant encryption, to include quantum resistant encryption; and

                     (3)  any exception from transition to compliant
encryption, pursuant to section 3 of this memorandum, which shall
additionally be reviewed by the National Manager and reported quarterly
to the Secretary of Defense and the Director of National Intelligence
for the systems within their respective jurisdictions.  The National
Manager, in coordination with and only after engaging the system owner,
may include other relevant agencies if a shared risk is jointly
determined.

          (v)    Within 90 days of the date of this memorandum, the
National Manager shall, in coordination with the Director of National
Intelligence, the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency, the
Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, and the heads of
appropriate elements of the Department of Defense, develop a framework
to coordinate and collaborate on cybersecurity and incident response
activities related to NSS commercial cloud technologies that ensures
effective information sharing among agencies, the National Manager, and
Cloud Service Providers (CSP).

               (A)  The National Manager, in coordination with the
Secretary of Homeland Security, shall ensure that, as provided in the
framework, there is a Federal unity of effort and collaboration between
the Secretary of Homeland Security and the National Manager on
commercial CSP-cybersecurity and incident management, consistent with
each agency’s responsibilities for Federal Civilian Executive Branch
(FCEB) and NSS cybersecurity, and to ensure rapid and thorough
end-to-end risk mitigation across CSP environments.

               (B)  The National Manager shall ensure that the final
version of the framework is coordinated with the Director of National
Intelligence, the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency, the
Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, and the heads of
appropriate elements of the Department of Defense.

     (c)  Consistent with section 4 of Executive Order 14028:

          (i)    Except as otherwise authorized by law, or by an
exception authorized by the heads of agencies pursuant to section 3 of
this memorandum, agencies shall adhere to the standards developed under
section 4 of Executive Order 14028 for any software intended to be used
on NSS for which this category of software is applicable.

          (ii)   Within 60 days of the date of this memorandum, the
National Manager shall, in coordination with the Secretary of Defense
and the Director of National Intelligence, review the guidance issued by
the Office of Management and Budget pursuant to section 4(i) of
Executive Order 14028 and shall issue similar guidance.

          (iii)  Agencies may request from the National Manager an
extension to the time period associated with satisfaction of the
applicable requirements issued in section 1(c)(ii) of this memorandum,
which will be considered by the National Manager on a case-by-case basis
and only with an accompanying plan for satisfying requirements.  The
National Manager shall provide a quarterly report to the Secretary of
Defense and the Director of National Intelligence of all extensions
granted for the systems within their respective jurisdictions and the
justifications for doing so.  The National Manager, in coordination with
and only after engaging the system owner, may include other relevant
agencies if a shared risk is jointly determined.

     (d)  Section 6 of Executive Order 14028 shall apply to NSS owners
and operators, utilizing the National Manager to review and validate
agencies’ incident response and remediation results upon an agency’s
completion of its incident response pursuant to section 6(f) of
Executive Order 14028.

     (e)  Section 7 of Executive Order 14028 shall apply to NSS owners
and operators where specifically referenced within the Executive Order,
with additional requirements as described in section 2(b) of this
memorandum.

     (f)  Within 14 days of the date of this memorandum the National
Manager, in coordination with the Secretary of Defense and the Director
of National Intelligence, shall provide to the CNSS recommendations as
described in section 8(b) of Executive Order 14028.

          (i)   Within 90 days of receipt of the recommendations issued
pursuant to section 1(f) of this memorandum, the CNSS shall formulate
policies for agencies to establish such requirements, which shall ensure
centralized access and visibility for the highest level of security
operations center of each agency.

          (ii)  To assist in the response to known or suspected
compromise of an NSS, recommendations issued pursuant to section 1(f) of
this memorandum shall include requirements that agencies will allow
access, upon request, to logs by specified named individuals, or based
on specific NSA cyber defense mission roles, as agreed upon between the
National Manager and the head of the agency or designee.

     Sec. 2.  National Manager Authorities Relating to National Security
Systems.  (a)  Designation and Identification of National Security
Systems.

          (i)    The National Manager shall facilitate the designation
of NSS across the Federal Government.  Each agency shall remain
responsible for identification, designation, accreditation, and
protection of all NSS under its ownership or control, including those
NSS operated and/or maintained on behalf of the agency.  The National
Manager may, on a periodic basis, request access to NSS information
regarding the designation and identification of such systems from
agencies operating NSS.

          (ii)   Within 30 days of the date of this memorandum, the
National Manager shall develop a process for assisting agencies with
identifying and inventorying those information systems that do or should
likely constitute NSS, and shall issue guidance to support agencies in
making these determinations to agency Chief Information Officers.  NSS
shall be inventoried at a level of detail sufficient to understand
community-wide cybersecurity risk, as determined by the National
Manager, and such information may not exceed a classification level of
TOP SECRET//SI//NOFORN.

          (iii)  Within 90 days of the date of this memorandum, agencies
shall identify and maintain an inventory of those systems designated as
NSS through the process designated in section 2(a)(ii) of this
memorandum.  Agencies shall retain their own inventory subject to access
by specified named individuals, or based on specific NSA cyber defense
mission roles, as agreed upon between the National Manager and the head
of the agency or designee.

          (iv)   If the National Manager has concerns regarding the
determination as to whether a system constitutes an NSS, the National
Manager shall engage the head of the relevant agency in order to resolve
the designation.  If the National Manager and the head of the agency are
unable to achieve a mutually acceptable resolution, the National Manager
may request that the head of the agency report the disagreement to the
Secretary of Defense and the Director of National Intelligence for
further consideration for systems within their respective
jurisdictions.  The National Manager, in coordination with and only
after engaging the system owner, may include other relevant agencies if
a shared risk is jointly determined.

          (v)    Once a system has been identified and designated as an
NSS, notification to the National Manager and to the Secretary of
Defense and the Director of National Intelligence, for systems within
their respective jurisdictions, will be required to re-designate those
systems as non-NSS.  The National Manager, in coordination with and only
after engaging the system owner, may include other relevant agencies if
a shared risk is jointly determined.

     (b)  Incident Reporting.

          (i)    To facilitate threat detection and response, as well as
an overall understanding of the cybersecurity status of NSS, an agency
shall, upon agency detection, or upon report by a contractor (including
an information and communications technology service provider) or other
Federal or non-Federal entity, of a known or suspected compromise or
otherwise unauthorized access to NSS, report such compromise or
unauthorized access to the National Manager through the appropriate
Federal Cyber Center or other designated central department point of
contact.  Agencies shall also provide relevant information to the
National Manager pursuant to the policies developed in accordance with
section 1(f) of this memorandum.

          (ii)   Agencies shall, upon detection or report to the agency,
also report to the National Manager, through their appropriate Federal
Cyber Center or other designated central department point of contact,
any compromise or unauthorized access of a network hosting a Cross
Domain Solution (CDS) when one side of the CDS connects to NSS operated
by or on behalf of the agency.

          (iii)  Within 90 days of the date of this memorandum, the
National Manager, in coordination with the Director of National
Intelligence and the Director of the Central Intelligence Agency, shall
establish procedures for reporting known or suspected compromises of NSS
or otherwise unauthorized access of NSS, which shall include:

               (A)  thresholds, required information, and other
criteria;

               (B)  emergency procedures if an imminent threat to NSS is
detected;

               (C)  timeliness expectations regarding initiation of
response activities by the affected agency;

               (D)  threat and compromise reporting mechanisms between
the National Manager and affected agencies;

               (E)  expectations of the National Manager’s protection
and handling of any information received pursuant to this section, to
include any considerations regarding the protection of intelligence
sources and methods and the conduct of counterintelligence
investigations;

               (F)  expectations for advising the Secretary of Defense
and the Director of National Intelligence for systems within their
respective jurisdictions of instances where agencies have failed to
report a known or suspected compromise of NSS; and

               (G)  procedures for the National Manager, in coordination
with and only after engaging the system owner, to include other relevant
agencies if a shared risk is jointly determined.

          (iv)   The recipients of any reporting required by this
section may be limited to specified named individuals or, based on
specific NSA cyber defense mission roles, as agreed upon between the
National Manager and the head of the agency or designee.  In exceptional
cases where the head of the agency deems it advisable to limit reporting
in order to protect intelligence sources and methods,
counterintelligence investigations, or law enforcement sensitive
information, the reporting may be retained by the agency subject to the
National Manager access described in section 2(a)(iii) of this
memorandum.

     (c)  National Manager Directives.

          (i)    Emergency Directives.  In response to a known or
reasonably suspected information security threat, vulnerability, or
incident that represents a substantial threat to the information
security of NSS, or intelligence of adversary capability and intent to
target NSS, the National Manager may issue a National Manager Emergency
Directive to the head of an agency, through that agency’s Chief
Information Officer, Chief Information Security Officer, or officer
designated by the head of the agency, to take any lawful action with
respect to the operation of that NSS, as defined in this memorandum,
including such systems used or operated by another entity on behalf of
an agency, for the purpose of protecting the NSS from, or mitigating,
the threat, vulnerability, or risk.

          (ii)   Binding Operational Directives.  For the purposes of
safeguarding NSS from a known or reasonably suspected information
security threat, vulnerability, or risk, the National Manager may, in
coordination with the Secretary of Defense and the Director of National
Intelligence, for the systems within their respective jurisdictions,
issue a National Manager Binding Operational Directive to the head of an
agency, through that agency’s Chief Information Officer, Chief
Information Security Officer, or officer designated by the head of the
agency, to take any lawful action with respect to the operation of that
NSS, as defined in this memorandum, including such systems used or
operated by another entity on behalf of an agency, for the purpose of
protecting the NSS from, or mitigating, the threat, vulnerability, or
risk.  Additionally, the National Manager may issue, on a periodic or ad
hoc basis, requests to the head of an agency, through that agency’s
Chief Information Officer, Chief Information Security Officer, or
officer designated by the head of the agency, for information suitable
for reporting the overall cybersecurity posture of that agency’s NSS.

          (iii)  Implementing Procedures.  Within 30 days of the date of
this memorandum, the National Manager, in coordination with the
Secretary of Defense and the Director of National Intelligence, shall
establish procedures governing the circumstances under which a directive
may be issued under this subsection, which shall include:

               (A)  thresholds and other criteria;

               (B)  provision of notice to potentially affected third
parties;

               (C)  reasons for the required action and the duration of
the directive;

               (D)  privacy and civil liberties protections;

               (E)  adoption of measures to secure the NSS that have a
minimal impact on operations under the circumstances; and

               (F)  limiting directives to the shortest period
practicable.

          (iv)   Notification and Assistance.  The National Manager
shall notify, in writing, the head of any affected agency, the Secretary
of Defense, the Secretary of Homeland Security, and the Director of
National Intelligence immediately upon the issuance of an Emergency
Directive or Binding Operational Directive, and shall provide technical
and operational assistance to the implementing agency.

          (v)    Coordination and Alignment of Directives.  To ensure
alignment between National Manager directives for NSS and FCEB
information systems directives, the National Manager and the Secretary
of Homeland Security, in coordination with the Secretary of Defense and
the Director of National Intelligence, shall:

               (A)  within 60 days of the date of this memorandum,
establish procedures for the National Manager and the Secretary of
Homeland Security to immediately share with each other National Manager
Binding Operational Directives and Emergency Directives, and Department
of Homeland Security Emergency Directives and Binding Operational
Directives, applying to the information networks within their respective
jurisdictions.  The procedures shall adequately address applicable
information-sharing guidelines, including protections for classified
information, protection of intelligence sources and methods, and
protection of information originated by other agencies;

               (B)  evaluate whether to adopt any requirements or
guidance contained in a directive received pursuant to the procedures
established under section 2(c)(v)(A) of this memorandum, consistent with
law, Executive Orders, Federal regulations, and directives concerning
the sharing of classified information; and

               (C)  within 7 days of receiving notice of a directive
issued pursuant to the procedures established under section 2(c)(v)(A)
of this memorandum, notify the Assistant to the President for National
Security Affairs (APNSA) or their designee of the evaluation described
in section 2(c)(v)(B) of this memorandum, the determination of whether
to adopt the requirements or guidance contained in the directive
received, the rationale for that determination, and a timeline for
adoption of the requirements or guidance, if applicable.

     (d)  Cross Domain Solutions.

          (i)    As CDS separate and enable controlled exchange of
information between different security domains, they are vital NSS that
require centralized visibility.

          (ii)   In operating the National Cross Domain Strategy and
Management Office (NCDSMO), the National Manager shall be the focal
point for NSS cross domain capabilities and mission needs, and shall:

               (A)  serve as the principal advisor to NSS owners for
cross domain capabilities;

               (B)  develop and maintain community outreach programs and
forums;

               (C)  develop and establish improved security solutions,
remote management and monitoring, cyber defense, filtering requirements,
and standards and technologies for CDS; and

               (D)  operate the cross domain security testing program to
ensure uniform comprehensive testing.

          (iii)  Within 60 days of the date of this memorandum, the
National Manager, in coordination with the Chief Information Officer of
the Intelligence Community, shall issue a directive to all agencies
operating a CDS connected to NSS to make available information regarding
those deployments and shall establish timelines for the collection and
receipt of this information, requiring that agencies shall:

               (A)  verify that logs from CDS, supporting systems, and
connected systems are collected and archived by agencies, sufficient to
support investigation and incident response activities, as well as
ensuring the logs are intact and machine-readable, and making access to
that information available to the National Manager consistent with
section 2(b) of this memorandum;

               (B)  validate that the latest authorized patches have
been installed for deployed CDS;

               (C)  report on the status of upgrading to the
Raise-the-Bar (RTB) compliant version of their CDS; and

               (D)  update or develop plans of actions and milestones
for all CDS installations to comply with NCDSMO CDS security
requirements and provide these plans to the National Manager, to include
identified funding barriers which may prevent RTB compliance.

          (iv)   Within 90 days of the date of this memorandum, the
heads of relevant agencies shall establish and maintain CDS deployment
inventory for all CDS deployments within their jurisdiction, subject to
access by specified named individuals, or based on specific NSA cyber
defense mission roles, as agreed upon between the National Manager and
the head of the agency or designee.  In coordination with the Secretary
of Defense and the Director of National Intelligence, the National
Manager shall define essential elements of information required to
maintain an accurate inventory not to exceed a classification level of
TOP SECRET//SI//NOFORN, shall define initial and ongoing agency
reporting expectations, and shall provide a process to CDS owners for
reporting and updating as required.

     Sec. 3.  Exceptions.  (a)  Whenever the head of an agency
determines that unique mission needs necessitate any NSS or category of
NSS to be excepted from any provisions of Executive Order 14028 or this
memorandum, the head of the agency may authorize such exceptions,
provided that such exceptions may only be authorized with respect to:

          (i)    systems that facilitate the support or conduct of
military, intelligence, or sensitive law enforcement activities where
the head of the agency determines that implementation of these
requirements is not practicable or is contrary to national security;

          (ii)   systems for which attribution to the United
States Government is obscured and for which this attribution would be
reasonably endangered due to implementation of these requirements; or

          (iii)  information systems or software procured for
vulnerability research, testing, or evaluation purposes that are not
intended for use in agency operational networks.

     (b)  If the head of an agency elects to authorize an exception
under section 3(a) of this memorandum, the head of the agency shall
notify the National Manager and shall provide:

          (i)    a general description as to the function of the system
or systems at issue;

          (ii)   the reasoning for accepting the enhanced cybersecurity
risk resulting from the exception;

          (iii)  a description of the likely mission impact, and agency
response, were this NSS to be compromised; and

          (iv)   attestation that all practicable means of risk
mitigation have been, or will be, implemented.

     (c)  In order to ensure that the National Manager maintains
awareness of additional cybersecurity risk across NSS, the National
Manager, in coordination with the Secretary of Defense and the Director
of National Intelligence, shall, within 30 days of the date of this
memorandum:

          (i)   publish an exception provision process to include:
 reporting timeline expectations; formats; allowance for categories of
systems that may be grouped together within a single exception; and
other required elements of information, to include those elements
described in section 3(b) of this memorandum.  Exceptions shall be
sufficiently detailed to establish and maintain an appropriate level of
community-wide risk awareness and appropriately abridged to protect
sensitive intelligence sources or methods, and classification shall not
exceed TOP SECRET//SI//NOFORN; and

          (ii)  coordinate with agencies to establish an authoritative
repository for each agency to maintain a consolidated inventory of all
exceptions that agency has authorized, subject to access by specified
named individuals or based on specific NSA cyber defense mission roles,
as agreed upon between the National Manager and the head of the agency
or designee.

     (d)  Chief Information Officers of agencies shall retain internal
records regarding system exceptions sufficiently detailed to perform
effective and timely identification and mitigation of any cybersecurity
issues that may impact these systems.

     (e)  If the National Manager and the head of an agency cannot agree
on the sufficiency of exception rationale, description of impacts,
response, sufficiency of mitigations, or overall acceptance of increased
risk, the National Manager shall request that the head of the agency
report the disparity to the Secretary of Defense and the Director of
National Intelligence for further consideration with respect to systems
within their respective jurisdictions.  The National Manager, in
coordination with and only after engaging the system owner, may include
other relevant agencies if a shared risk is jointly determined.

     Sec. 4.  Summary of NSS Policy Creation or Adjustment Actions. 
Within 90 days of the date of this memorandum, the CNSS, in consultation
with the National Manager, shall review this memorandum and deliver to
the APNSA a summary of NSS policy creation or adjustment actions and
their timeline for implementation.  This summary will include any
additional items not previously directed within this memorandum to the
National Manager or agencies.

     Sec. 5.  General Provisions.  (a)  This memorandum is intended to
supplement NSD-42.

     (b)  Nothing in this memorandum shall be construed to alter or
supersede:

          (i)   the authority granted by law to an executive department
or agency, or the head thereof, to include the protection of
intelligence sources and methods; or  

          (ii)  the functions of the Director of the Office of
Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or
legislative proposals.

     (c)  Nothing in this memorandum confers the authority to interfere
with or to direct a counterintelligence, personnel, criminal, or
national security investigation, arrest, search, seizure, or disruption
operation or to alter a legal restriction that requires an agency to
protect information learned in the course of a counterintelligence,
personnel, criminal, or national security investigation.

     (d)  This memorandum shall be implemented in a manner consistent
with applicable law and shall be subject to the availability of
appropriations.  No implementation measures shall impede the conduct or
support of intelligence activities, and all such implementation measures
shall be designed to protect intelligence sources and methods.

     (e)  This memorandum is not intended to, and does not, create any
right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in
equity by any party against the United States, its departments,
agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other
person.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
