---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2022-01-31'
modified_time: 2022-01-31 11:40:00-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/01/31/a-proclamation-on-american-heart-month-2022/
published_time: 2022-01-31 11:39:59-05:00
title: A Proclamation on American Heart Month, 2022
---
 
Heart disease is a leading cause of death in the United States, claiming
the lives of more than 650,000 people each year.  During American Heart
Month, we raise awareness of the risks of heart disease, remember those
we have lost, and highlight steps we can all take to save the lives of
countless loved ones and address the unequal burden of heart disease in
high-risk communities.  
  
Through research and innovation, we have made considerable progress in
recent years to advance our knowledge and treatment of heart
disease.  New technologies allow us to diagnose, prevent, and treat
heart disease more rapidly and effectively than ever before.  We also
have a better understanding of heart disease risk factors, such as high
blood pressure, bad cholesterol, smoking, being overweight or obese, and
type 2 diabetes.  
  
Despite the significant progress we have made, heart disease continues
to exact a heartbreaking toll — a burden disproportionately carried by
Black and brown Americans, American Indians and Alaska Natives, and
people who live in rural communities.  Cardiovascular diseases —
including heart conditions and strokes — are also a leading cause of
pregnancy-related deaths, which are highest among women of
color.  Addressing these tragic disparities and improving heart health
has never been more important, as people suffering from heart disease
and related conditions are also at increased risk of severe illness and
long-term effects from COVID-19.  
  
My Administration is committed to supporting Americans in their efforts
to achieve better heart health, as well as closing the racial gaps in
cardiovascular disease.  That is why I have asked the Congress to launch
a major new initiative — the Advanced Research Projects Agency for
Health, or ARPA-H — which would invest billions of dollars in
preventing, detecting, and treating cancer, cardiovascular conditions,
and other deadly diseases.  My Administration is also working across
Federal agencies to develop new programs to alleviate heart health
disparities, including those that threaten maternal health.  
  
Engaging in regular physical activity, maintaining a healthy diet and
weight, managing stress, avoiding smoking and vaping, and getting
quality sleep each night can all reduce the risk of heart disease and
help people live longer, healthier lives.  While it is essential to see
a health care professional if you have symptoms or risk factors related
to heart disease, research shows that taking a little time each day to
promote a healthy lifestyle can help improve your long-term heart
health.  
  
On Friday, February 4th — National Wear Red Day — we honor those we have
lost to heart disease and raise awareness of the actions we can all take
to prevent it.  The First Lady and I encourage all Americans to observe
this important day.  Continuing the fight against cardiovascular disease
is crucial to improving our Nation’s public health.  During American
Heart Month, we must recommit ourselves to ensuring a healthier future
for all Americans.  
  
In acknowledgement of the importance of the ongoing fight against
cardiovascular disease, the Congress, by Joint Resolution approved
December 30, 1963, as amended (36 U.S.C. 101), has requested that the
President issue an annual proclamation designating February as “American
Heart Month.”  
  
NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, do hereby proclaim February 2022 as American Heart Month,
and I invite all Americans to participate in National Wear Red Day on
February 4, 2022.  I also invite the Governors of the States, the
Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, officials of other areas subject to the
jurisdiction of the United States, and the American people to join me in
recognizing and reaffirming our commitment to fighting cardiovascular
disease.  
  
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
thirty-first day of January, in the year of our Lord
two thousand twenty-two, and of the Independence of the United States
of America the two hundred and forty-sixth.  
 

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
