---
date: '2022-12-07'
published_time: 2022-12-07 17:52:03-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2022/12/07/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-december-7-2022/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre, December 7,\_2022"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

2:00 P.M. EST

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  It’s almost like you guys were not expecting me to be
out.  (Laughter.) 

Q    You caught us off guard. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t know. 

Q    Day 625 of the administration —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t know, right? 

Q    — and it finally happened. 

Q    Shockwaves.  (Laughter.) 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  As we go into 2023, you know, just going to do things
a little different. 

All right, good afternoon, everybody.  I just have a couple things at
the top, and we’ll get started. 

Today, on the 81st anniversary of Pearl Harbor, the President met with a
group of 23 World War Two veterans, family members, and volunteers, and
thanked them for their service. 

The veterans traveled to D.C. on an Honor Flight from Austin, Texas, to
attend the Pearl Harbor Remembrance Day Observance at the World War Two
Memorial on the National Mall. 

These veterans served on the homefront, across the Pacific and European
theaters.

Today we remember and pay tribute to the 2,403 service members and
civilians that died during the attack on our forces at Pearl Harbor and
honor the extraordinary contributions that these veterans made to guide
our nation through the world’s darkest moments.

I’d also like to offer an update on open enrollment.  As of today,
nearly 5.5 million signed up for healthcare through the ACA Marketplace
since the start of open enrollment last month — a continued
record-breaking pace for enrollment in quality, affordable healthcare. 

The Biden administration has made expanding access to health insurance
and lowering healthcare costs for America’s families a top priority. 
And under their leadership, the national uninsured rate reached an
all-time low earlier this year.

Thanks to the Inflation Reduction Act, which congressional Republicans
want to repeal, four out of five consumers can find a plan that costs
$10 or less a month.  Additionally, 13 million Americans will continue
to save an average of 800 bucks a year on coverage.  

Open enrollment continues until January 15th, 2023, for states using the
HealthCare.gov platforms.  Americans without health insurance or those
who need to renew it for 2023, should go to HealthCare.gov between now
and December 15th to ensure that their coverage begins on January 1st,
2023.

We’ve also got some really good economic news and I know you all are
excited about.  Gas prices have now hit lowest levels since January. 
The national average is 3.36 bucks per gallon, down about $1.66 per
gallon since June and about 18 cents below where they were when Putin
invaded Ukraine.  In 11 states, the average gas price is $2.99 or less.

That — that decline is saving Americans’ families with two cars about
$170 a month. 

President Biden committed to addressing Putin’s tax hike at the pump,
and he is doing just that.

     Finally, this morning, the President signed the Speak Out
bipartisan legislation — Speak Out Act — I should be clear there —
bipartisan legislation that will enable survivors to speak out about
workplace sexual assault and harassment, increase access to justice, and
make the workplace safer for everyone.

Today’s bill was passed thanks to part of — to the extraordinary
leadership of Gretchen Carlson and other survivors and advocates, as
well as Congress- — <s>Congressmen</s> \[Congresswomen\] Lois Frankel
and Cheri Bustos and Senator Kirsten Gillibrand and Mazi \[sic\] — and
Mazie Hirono.

One in three women report having sexu- — having faced sexual harassment
in the workplace, and people of color, low-wage workers, and LGBTQI+
individuals are also disproportionately impacted — individuals are also
— I’m sorry, disproportionately impacted.  The threat of legal
retaliation can silence survivors while allowing predatory workplace
behavior to continue unchecked. 

The Speak Out Act creates a critical national standard, empowering
survivors by prohibiting the enforcement of pre-dispute nondisclosure
agreements — those are NDAs — and non-disparagement clauses in cases of
workplace sexual assault or harassment.

This bill builds on the Ending Forced Attribu- — Arbitration of Sexual
Harassment — of Sexual Assault and Sexual Harassment Act, which the
President signed into law earlier this year, which made it easier for
survivors of sexual assault and harassment to bring suit in court and to
avoid being forced to arbitrate their legal claims.

Together, these laws help protect the safety and wellbeing of Americans
— American workers and make our workplaces safer, fairer, and more just.

With that — oh, hi, Josh.  How are you?  I haven’t seen you in a long
time. 

Q    I know, you said that last time.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I feel like I don’t see you enough.  Clearly —
clearly, I miss you.

Q    Well, I have a thousand questions for you.  (Laughter.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go — go for it.  

Q    Let’s just go.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Shocker. 

Q    Two subjects.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  Okay, Josh.  

Q    On the Georgia Senate election: With Senator Warnock’s re-election
having 51 Senate seats, what does that mean for possible changes in how
the White House approaches its policy agenda and confirmation process?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So let me just — I want to give you a little bit of
color on the call.  I know some folks had some questions about how the
call went. 

So, Senator Warnock — well, first, as you know, the President called
Senator Warnock last night when we got back from Phoenix, Arizona.  And
— and Senator Warnock thanked the President for the call, and they
talked about their partnership and the importance of their continued
work together in the months and years ahead. 

Look, what I would say to your question, Josh, about what this means for
moving forward, when it comes to the President’s legislative agenda,
when it comes to Democrats’ legislative agenda, it’s that it gives us a
little bit more breathing room, a little bit more ability to deliver for
the American people. 

The President has been very clear these past almost two years that his
main priority, his main objective is to make sure that the American —
the American public, the American people — when it comes to the economy,
we build it from the bottle — from the bottom up, middle out — giving
people real opportunities.  You see that in his economic initiatives and
priorities, his plans. 

When you see the bipartisan infrastructure legislation, the infer- —
inflation — Inflation Reduction Act, which I just mentioned at the top,
and when you think about the American Rescue Plan, the first big piece
of legislation that this President passed with only Democratic votes,
which met the moment that he walked into with an economy that was really
tanking, and he helped make sure that people got shots in arms, helped
the economy get back on its feet.  And we’ve seen these successes, which
in the last two — two — two years. 

Again, this is going to give us a little bit more of that breathing room
to get things done, to continue to move forward with what the American
people want. 

And they were very clear in the midterms.  What the American people want
is they want to continue the agenda that the President has had the last
two years.

Q    And then secondly, on the National Defense Authorization Act, it
doesn’t include a military COVID vaccine mandate.  Is the President’s
objection to removing that mandate so strong that he’s willing to veto
the NDAA?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So let me just first say — I’ll answer that question,
but I do want to make a few points here. 

So I don’t want to get ahead of the process.  As we know, there’s the —
there — we know there’s the conference language.  There’s still the
legislative process that has to move ahead on this. 

And so, again, I’m not going to get ahead of the — of the vote, or I’m
not going to get ahead of the President.  But every year, as you know,
the NDAA has some provisions we support and some we do not.  And what
the President is going to do is he’s going to judge this piece of
legislation — this bill — on its entirety when that occurs.  Again,
there’s a process moving, there’s a process that’s happening, and so
we’re going to let that happen in Congress. 

I will note — just to be very, very clear here — what we saw, what we
think happened here is Republicans in Congress have decided that they’d
rather fight against the health and wellbeing of our troops than
protecting them.  And we believe that it is a mistake what we saw — what
we saw happen on the NDAA, as it relates to the vaccine mandate.

Making sure our troops are prepared and ready for service is a priority
for President Biden.  The vaccination requirement for COVID does just
that. 

I’ll add one more thing.  Just a — just a little bit of a point — a data
point here so all of you have this.  Look, before COVID vaccine existed,
nearly 700 Department of Defense personnel and service members died of
COVID.  Almost 100 of them were active duty.  And so, since this past
spring, there has been one death due to COVID.  So vaccinations work and
save the lives of our service members.  So we believe that it was a
mistake.

Go ahead.

Q    I just want to go back to your comment on “breathing room” that you
just said.  If you could, with a look ahead, going forward, lay out for
us where you think you’ll have the most breathing room.  Is it
specifically judicial nominees?  Kind of, what’s the list of what —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So we’ve been very clear —

Q    — what you get out of this?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — that judicial nominees is a — is a priority for this
President.  That’s something, clearly, that we want to move forward on
and continue — continue our successes. 

We’ve — you’ve seen the success of judicial nominees as it relates to
this President’s first two years, making sure that we have put forth a
historic amount of Black women to — you know, to judgeships.  And so the
President wants to continue to do that.  Our nominations, as well —
moving forward on that. 

So that is something that we have said.  Those are clearly priorities. 
Don’t want to get too far ahead of what the President is — wants to do
or what that legislative process.  He’s going to continue to have those
conversations — congressional leadership. 

But, again, look, we saw — we saw the results.  All of you reported on
the results of the — of the midterms.  And, you know, Democrats — and
not just Democrats, pardon me — but the American people were very, very
clear on what they wanted to see.  They wanted — they want Congress and
the President to continue to fight for women’s rights and our freedoms. 
They want to protect our democracy. 

They don’t want our Social Security or our Medicare to be put on the
chopping blocks.  And that’s what Republicans officials were putting out
there as their plan.  And so we’re going to continue to deliver for the
American people. 

What you saw Senator Warnock do and what you saw Democrats do this past
— this past election is run on the President’s agenda, run on an agenda
that was successful. 

And — and so that’s what — this was a success for Democrats but also for
President Biden.

Q    Why not lay out that agenda now, given that the results are in?  If
you could walk us through the thought process behind that, and when we
then might hear the President.  Are we going to hear some kind of speech
on that?

And then just quickly, what is sort of the thought process in terms of
bipartisan agreement?  The President, after the midterms, had said that
working with a divided chamber would be — make life for Democrats more
difficult.  Does he still believe that?  And what areas were there — are
you going to pursue?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Can you say that last part again?

Q    That the President had said that a divided chamber in the Congress
would — would make the reality for Democrats in Washington working more
difficult.  It would be tougher to do your job, get things passed, if
you don’t have the House.  What — going forward, kind of, where — where
are the areas of bipartisanship that you could (inaudible)?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, there’s so many areas of bipartisanship that
the President sees.  When it comes to delivering for the American
people, on the economy, on healthcare, on issues that they truly care
about, we can do that in a bipartisan way. 

There’s no — there’s no reason that that couldn’t be done.  You know,
when we talk about the government funding, last year, it was done a
bipartisan way.  This year, it should be done in a bipartisan way,
because when you think about what’s in the — what’s — what the specifics
are in that funding, you think about public education.  You think about
public health, right?  You think about our national security.  All of
those things are not partisan issues. 

     But I will also say, when the President has his meeting with the
Big Four, the Republican and Democratic leadership on Congress — in
Congress, just last week, he was very clear.  You saw the readout.  And
you heard me say this as well, which is, you know, this past almost two
years, there were more than 200 pieces of legislation that the President
signed into law that were bipartisan.  That is — so it is possible to
get things done. 

The President was in Phoenix, Arizona.  He talked about the CHIPS and
Science Act.  That was done in bipartisan way to bring back jobs to the
U.S. — manufacturing jobs in the U.S.  And under this presidency, more
than 700,000 manufacturing jobs have been created. 

So there’s ways to do that.  The bipartisan infrastructure legislation —
a historic piece of legislation that’s going to fix our infrastructure
and our roads, our — you know, our roads, our tunnels, our bridges — and
that was done in a bipartisan way.  So, there’s many ways that we can do
that.  The President is willing to reach across the aisle, as he has
been during out — throughout his career to get things done for the
American people.

Q    And a timeline he’ll lay out the legislative agenda?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Again, I don’t want to get ahead of the President.  I
will let him, you know, speak to that when the time comes.  What I am
saying is the President is going to continue to have conversations with
congressional leaders.  He did just last week, just — just a week ago or
so.  And he wants to make sure that we can continue doing — moving the
country forward in a way that helps the American people.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  So, the deadline for Biden to decide whether to
declassify thousands of documents related to the assassination of John
F. Kennedy is looming.  It’s December 15th.  Is that declassification
still on track, or will the administration seek to extend?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have an update for you on that particular
question on declassify- — declassification of those documents.  Once we
— once we have more to share, we certainly will.  I don’t have anything
to preview at this time.

Q    Oh, one more thing.  I wonder if you can preview some of the
remarks Biden is going to make tonight at the vigil for victims of gun
violence.  And he’s spoken frequently on the campaign trail in public
about the desire for an assault weapons ban.  Does — is that out of the
water now that there’s divided government?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, there’s 51 Senate — Democratic senators now. 
So, that — that matters.  Like I said, it’ll make things a little bit
easier.  But, yes, to your point, it is a divided government.

But, look, far too many Americans are losing their lives and loved ones
to gun violence.  We are seeing communities being broken up, families
being destroyed because of gun violence.

And so, tonight, the President will join survivors and families impacted
by gun violence to deliver remarks at the 10th Annual National Vigil for
All Victims of Gun Violence.  The vigil is a service of mourning and
loving remembrance for all who have fallen victim to the ongoing
epidemic of gun violence in America.

As you all know, as you just mentioned a little bit about the assault
weapons ban, but also, the President signed the most significant gun
safety legislation in 30 years this summer.  But it’s — he feels it’s
not enough.  He believes that we need to do more, and he’s been very
vocal about that these past several months.  He continues to call for an
assault weapons ban to be passed by the Senate and send it to his desk. 

So, he’s never going to stop showing up.  He’s never going to stop
talking about this.  He believes that speaking up and making sure that
the American public is aware what his priorities are is important as
well, and, look, in fighting for the scourge of gun violence that is
killing our kids, leaving holes in our families and tearing up
communities — tearing our communities apart.  So, he’s going to keep
continue to speak to that.

Go ahead.

Q    In the wake of the midterms, the President has traveled to two
states that were critical to 2020 but also where Democrats did quite
well, in Michigan and Arizona.  Should we expect a trip to Georgia
anytime soon?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, don’t have anything to preview at this time on any
trips that the President will be having in the next couple of weeks. 

You know, of course, we’ve been to Georgia many times during even this
presidency and always look forward to going back.  But don’t have
anything to preview at this time.

Q    Can I ask on the funding negotiations?  Republican Leader McConnell
yesterday made pretty clear that they hadn’t made any significant
headway on any of the major issues, including a topline, and said that
that would likely lead to CR if it didn’t change soon. 

How does the President view his role in these negotiations?  I
understand the critical role Shalonda plays.  I understand there are
House Democrats, Senate Democrats, House Republicans, Senate
Republicans.  Given the timeline here, what does the President view as
his role, his necessity here?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  Well, look, just last week, as I was mentioning
when he met with congressional leadership — that was part of the readout
that we provided to all of you, is how important it is to get this
government funding done. 

He believes — and I just stated this moments ago — he believed that we
were able to do this in a bipartisan way last year and we should be able
to do that in a bipartisan way this year.  We have the time to get that
done.

And to your point, yes, our OMB Director, Shalonda Young, is leading the
process.  She was — she knows how to get this done.  She knows how to
reach across the aisle to get to make sure that we deliver for the
American people.

These are not partisan issues.  These are real critical issues that
we’re talking about.  We’re talking about the different specifics of the
government funding that matter to the American people.

So, like I said, the President spoke to leadership last week.  It was
part of the readout that we provided to all of you.  And he’ll continue
to have those conversations.

Q    And just real quick: Is the administration, at this point, opposed
to any CR into next year?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, I’m not going to get ahead of what’s happening
right now in Congress.  What we believe is that, you know, we should be
able to have an omnibus bill, like we have done in the past, and it
should be bipartisan.  And we have enough time to get that done.

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  Is the White House following the events in Germany
in which 25 members of a far-right group were detained for planning to
overthrow the state?  And is the U.S. offering any help or
intelligence-gathering on that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, we applaud the German government and its law
enforcement and special forces for their diligence in combating violent
extremism and keeping their citizens safe and their government
facilities secure. 

We would refer you to the German government specifically and law
enforcement authorities for questions about the investigation
specifically on that.

We remain in contact — in close contact with our government counterparts
and are standing by to assist if asked.

Q    Also on foreign policy: Is the White House concerned about Belarus
moving troops?  Is there concern that that might be the opening of
another front in Russia’s war against Ukraine?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, you know, we’ve been very clear about —
about what is — what Russia is doing.  Right?  We’ve been very clear
that it is important to stand with the Ukrainian people.  It is
important to — for us to help the Ukrainian people fight for their
democracy, fight for their freedom.

And that’s what we have done.  That’s what the President has done along
with our partners and allies, and bringing NATO together in a historic
way.  And so that’s what we’re going to continue to do.  And we’re going
to be very clear and loud about that and — and say — and say that we
applaud what Ukrainian — what the Ukrainian people are doing.

And when it comes to what we’re seeing from Russia, they are — they are
— you know, they are the ones who are attacking another country.  They
are the ones who are stepping on — on their — on their freedoms, on
their democracy.  And we have to continue to call that out.  And we have
to continue to make sure that we’re providing the assistance to the
Ukrainian people to continue to fight.

So, we’ve been very clear on that.  We’ve been very clear on — it’s
important that folks stand on the right side of history on this when it
comes to fighting our — for democracy.  And I’ll leave it — I’ll leave
it there.

Q    But on Belarus specifically?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, don’t have — look, I don’t have anything
specifically on that.  I have not seen the reporting on Belarus.  It
would not be surprising, as I remember you all reported on Belarus very
early on in this — in this — in this continuous war.

But, again, the President has been very clear: Like, we — it is
important to stand with the — with the Ukrainian people as they’re
fighting for their lives, as they’re fighting for their democracy and
their freedom.  And being on that side of history is — is incredibly
important.

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  I want to follow up on the vigil that the
President is going to attend tonight.  In the wake of the mass shootings
in Colorado and Virginia, the President said he wanted to revive his
push for the assault weapons ban.  Where does that stand?  Is he going
to push for that in the lame duck?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, I just — just to speak a little bit to why
the President continues to talk about this, and I talked — spoke about
it just moment ago: He believes that it is incredible — incredibly
important, as President, for him to continue to speak to this, for him
to continue to put this at the forefront, the importance of getting the
assault bans weapon — weapons ban.

And so — and he — he is grateful for the bipartisanship that we saw just
months ago on getting that gun reform to really fight gun violence —
something that we hadn’t seen in 30 years.

But he believes we need to do more.  And he — it’s not just legislation,
it’s also the work that he has done throughout his administration.  The
President put out the Safer America Plan, which is a roadmap for
additional actions needed to reduce gun — gun crime.

As part of that, the President continues to call, again, for an assault
weapons ban to be passed by the Senate.  And he believes that is one of
the best actions we can take to reduce gun violence and save lives.  And
the President feels very strongly about that.  And whether it’s in the
next three weeks or beyond, the President is not going to take his foot
off the — off the gas pedal on getting that done.

You know, again, he’s going to continue to talk about that.  He’s going
to continue to make sure that it is a priority for his administration
and be very clear with Congress on how important it is to move forward
with this.

When we saw the assault weapons ban in place 30 years ago, in 1994, when
the President was very much a big part of getting that done, we did see
crimes go down as it relates to that particular bill.  And once it
sunset 10 years later, we saw an increase.  So, he’s going to continue
to fight for it.

Q    And I hear what you’re saying in terms of the timing.  I guess part
of me is curious about the mechanism.  I had a chance to interview
incoming Congressman Maxwell Frost who, of course, made it a key part of
his platform to fight against gun violence.  And he ca- — has called for
a vote on the assault weapons ban in the Senate saying, quote, “I think
it’s important to put it up for a vote even if it doesn’t pass because
it gets people on the record.”  And I wonder if the President shares
that perspective, that it is worth putting it on the floor for a vote —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  The President —

Q    — even if you don’t have enough votes.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — I understand.  I understand what — what is being
laid out and said to me.  Look, the President believes that we need to
get something done.  That’s what he wants.  He wants to make sure —

Q    He wants to see a vote in the Senate?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, he wants to see — he wants to see the Senate get
it done.  He wants to see, obviously, a vote in the Senate.  He wants to
make sure — he wants to see the assault weapons ban get done.  And he
believes that is what’s going to save the lives of families and
communities across the country.

Q    And I just wanted to ask you about the antisemitism forum.  The
Second Gentleman said today, “There is an epidemic of hate facing our
country.  Let me be clear: Words matter.  People will no longer say the
quiet parts out loud; they are screaming them.”  Obviously, very
powerful words.  I’m wondering what, if any, actions the White House,
the President thinks can and should be taken to deal with this issue.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, the President has been very clear.  You know, I
was talking to him about this earlier today.  And, look, he said — he
said what I’ve always said here — is: Silence is complicity.  Right? 
And that is true.  And we need to speak out against hate, bigotry,
antisemitism, and Holocaust denial — are disgusting and have no place in
America — period. 

Let’s not forget, in 2017, the President put out — put forth an op-ed
that — that talked about what he saw in Charlottesville, and the hatred,
the antisemitism that we saw, that we — that you all reported on.  And
so he’s been consistent on calling that out, talking about the soul of
our nation, talking about how important it is to really speak out
against this type of hate that we’re seeing.

Q    Given how critical it is to the President, why didn’t he attend
today?  Why didn’t he make remarks?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, here’s the thing that I want to be really clear
about.  Again, I just talked about 2017, how the President has been out
front; he was out front as a former Vice President.  He put out, again,
an op-ed being out front on this critical issue and what we were
seeing.  And someone lost their lives — right? — someone lost their life
on that day. 

When he decided to run in 20- — in 2019, to be President, he talked
about the soul of a nation.  He talked about the increase of hate and
what he was seeing.  And there’s been many times at this podium and many
times this President himself has called out the bigotry, the
antisemitism that we have been seeing, and he’ll continue to do that. 

I talked about this — how important it is for the Second Gentleman
because of his stor- — his historic role and how he belongs to that — to
the Jewish community and how important it was for him.  And, again, he
represents the administration.  He is the Second Gentleman. 

But look, just a couple of things.  I do want to lay out what we have
done:

At September’s United We Stand Summit, our administration announced a
series of actions and commitments to take on hate-fueled violence. 

President Biden has established the first ambassador-level Special Envoy
to Monitor and Combat Antisemitism and appointed the renowned Holocaust
expert to the role. 

So these are actions that he has taken most recently, in the last almost
two years, and I think that shows his commitment to this issue.  That
shows his commitment in fighting antisemitism and fighting hate.  

Go ahead.  Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  Senator Manchin now has an amendment to the NDAA
he’s hoping to advance on the floor for his permitting reform
provisions.  Does the White House support — continue to support the
effort at this stage?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, the President believes we must pass the
permitting reform bill so that the — that the U.S. can realize the
benefits of the historic investments in the Inflation Reduction Act and
the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law.  He supports permitting reform. 

As I said just a couple of days ago, we will continue to work with
Congress and find the best path forward so we can enact a bill — enact
this bill.  So it is a priority for this President. 

Q    If I could just follow up to your answer to Josh’s question — and I
think John Kirby said the same thing this morning — that it was a
mistake for the provision rescinding the vaccine mandate to be included
in the NDAA.  But specifically, Josh asked you if the President would
veto the NDAA if the provision remains.  Is the President threatening to
veto the NDAA?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I just answered that question, which was: There’s a
process in place.  We talked about the conference language.  There’s a
legislative process that it has to go — go — go forward, right?  I’m not
going to get ahead of votes.  I’m not going to get ahead of what that
process is going to look like. 

The President is going to look at the NDAA in its entirety and make his
judgment on that. 

And I’m not leaning any way here.  I’m just laying out the facts of how
this works. 

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks.  Karine, following up on Kristen’s question about the
assault weapons ban push from the President, he said specifically, on
Thanksgiving, that he was going to count the votes to see if there were
enough votes to do anything during the lame duck.  Has he counted the
votes?  Has he made any determination?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, I don’t have any determination to share with you
at this time.  What I can say is the President is committed and believes
that we need to get an assault weapons ban.  He has been very, very
clear about that.  He is — he’s appreciative of what Congress was able
to do with the — with the — the piece of legislation that got passed
just a couple of months ago on making sure that we deal with gun
violence in our communities.  That was something that we hadn’t seen in
30 years.  But he believes we need to go further.   
  
Again, I exp- — I — you know, I tried to explain a little bit about his
thinking, about how — why he continues to talk about this.  He believes
it’s important for him, as the President of the United States, to have
this conversation, to put this at the forefront and continuing to do
this, because we’re seeing what gun violence is doing and how it’s
destroying our communities and what it’s doing to our communities.

Q    Do you expect him to make a determination on votes in the lame duck
in the near future?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, there’s — there’s a lot happening — right? — in
the next couple of weeks.  I just said whether this happens in the next
three weeks or beyond, this is — continues to be a priority for this
President. 

Q    And then, is the administration following the situation in Peru,
where the president has said that he is going to dissolve the congress
before a third impeachment vote?  Do you have any response or comment to
that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So we — we’ve seen the reports, and I — I believe the
NSC — the NSC team is looking at that.  Of course, this is a developing
— developing news, and I don’t have anything to share on that today. 

But, again, we’ve seen the reports, and NSC is certainly looking at
this.

Go ahead, JJ.

Q    Georgia elections official Brad Raffensperger said yesterday that
he’d like to see Georgia lawmakers take a look at ranked choice voting
or runoff alternatives.  Does the White House have any thoughts on the
structure of state elections or whether archaic election systems need to
be updated or changed?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So don’t have any position from the White House to
share on this today.  Of course, I read the reports.  I just don’t have
anything to share at this time. 

Go ahead.  Go ahead.

Q    Karine, sorry to push again one more time, to follow up on Kristen
and Catherine.  I hear what you’re saying, that the President has always
and will always push for a ban on assault rifles.  I think the
difference is that he himself went a step further and said — in response
to whether that would happen during the lame duck session, he said, “I
got to make that assessment as I get in and start counting the
votes.”   
  
So I guess my question is: I know you said a determination hasn’t been
made, but has he started counting the votes?  Are there conversations
between him and lawmakers about where they stand?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, the President has always been very clear to
lawmakers that he has conversations with how important it is to get the
assault weapons ban done.  That is something that has been continuous,
and that has happened across his administration, across a couple of
months of his administration.  That will never stop.

You know, I get the question.  And I just answered — kind of answered it
and said, “Don’t have a determination for you at this time.” 

But what I can say is, it doesn’t matter if it’s the next three weeks or
beyond, the President is going to continue to fight for this.  Right? 
This is something that is very personal to him.  This is something that
he worked on as a senator and got done.  

And let’s not forget, you know, we were able to see a gun reform
legislation — or gun violence — a piece of legislation that’s now into
law get done.  Something that we hadn’t seen in 30 years.  And it was
done in a bipartisan way. 

So the President is going to continue to fight for this.  He believes
that getting this done, getting the assault weapons ban is going to save
lives, and it’s going to — it’s going to save communities.  And so he’s
going to put this at the forefront, continue to talk about it, and work
very hard to get that done.

Q    But the question to him was specifically about these next three
weeks.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — I hear you.

Q    So I know there’s no determination, but I —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  And I — I actually — I just answered that question. 
(Laughs.)

Q    But I just — can you just tell us whether that process has started,
to count the votes?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — I — look, I don’t have a — I don’t have anything
else to preview —

Q    Okay.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — for you or if that process has occurred or
happened.  I hear what you’re saying.  I am telling you it is a priority
for this President.  He’s going to continue to fight for this, whether
it’s in the next couple of weeks — right? — of this — of this — of this
legislative session, as we’re, you know, coming to the end of the year
or beyond.  And what I can tell you for sure — what I can tell you for
sure is, he has prioritized this.  It is a — it is important for him to
get this done.  And — and, again, it could be the next three weeks or
beyond.  We are going to — we’re going to work very hard to get — to
deliver this for the American people.   
  
Q    And then one more on the new margin in the Senate.

Now that the Vice President won’t have to break the tie as often, in
theory, and she has more flexibility in her schedule and time, will that
impact her portfolio, travel schedule at all?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, I don’t believe so.  No.  
  
Q    Okay.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I would reach out to her team specifically, but I
don’t believe so.  The Pres- — let me just say: The Vice President has
been a great partner of the President this past two years.  You know the
successes that they both have had in the, clearly, Biden-Harris
administration on getting things done for the American people when it
comes to the economy, when it comes to lowering costs, when it comes to
fighting inflation.  And that is something that we’re going to continue
to do.  We just talked about the gun violence reform legislation that
was passed just a couple of — couple of months ago.   
  
All of that was done in partnership with the Vice President.  And he
appreciates all the work that she has done on — on these issues.  
  
Go ahead, Jacqui.  
  
Q    Thank you, Karine.  The White House and the President were very
vocal about Georgia’s new election law when it was signed in March of
2021.  The big argument from the White House was that it would suppress
voting.  But there was record turnout in the primary, there was record
turnout in the general, record turnout in the runoff in early voting,
absentee ballots, and in-person voting.  So is the DOJ going to drop
their lawsuit against the state?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I can’t speak to DOJ’s actions and what they’re going
to do.  
  
Q    The President, though, called it “Jim Crow in the 21st century” and
a “blatant attack on the Constitution.”  So does he still see it that
way?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’ll say this: I’m not going to speak to the
Department of Justice legal actions.  That’s something for them to — to
speak to.  What I can say — and not — not going to get into specifics of
your question, but you guys — you all have reported this, that there was
suppression, that — that we saw that throughout — through that —
throughout the Georgia election.  So that is something that was reported
on.  So I leave it to those reports.  
  
But, look, even with that, the American people came out.  They came out
in a historic fas- — fashion to make their voices loud and clear.  
  
When it comes to democracy, when it comes to protecting our democracy,
when it comes to making sure that we’re protecting our economy, we’re
protecting Social Security and Medicare, this is something that the
American people spoke very loud and clear.  And they did that because of
the success that this President has had on his legislative agenda,
because of the — of what the President has been able to deliver, because
of what Democrats has been able to do and making sure we had a sharp
message for the American people to see the contrast, right?  
  
Republicans wanted to put Social Security and Medicare on the chopping
block.  That’s what they wanted to do.  That was their plan.  And, you
know, people have said — I’ve heard some of your colleagues say earlier
this morning — that stunning- — it was a stunningly bad cycle for
Republican senators.  And a lot of that is because of their agenda.  It
is because they embodied the ultra-MAGA ideas.   
  
And even with all of that, the American public came out, and they put a
lot of that to rest, a lot of what the pr- — what the Republican
officials were putting forth, their plan, to rest.  And they said it
very loud and clear: We want to — we want the special interests to pay
their fair share.  We want Social Security, we want Medicare to be
protected.  And we want women’s rights to be protected as well.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you.  
  
Q    Just one more.  On Twitter, Karine.  The Twitter Files had released
that the company typically required an official or law enforcement
finding that materials were hacked in order to exercise their company
policy to restrict certain stories or reporting.  And the journalist who
released the material noted that, in this case, around the Hunter Biden
laptop story, there was no official or law enforcement finding that
appeared in the material that he was given.  
  
So my question to you is: Did anyone from the Biden team communicate to
Twitter that this material was — was from ha- — or this reporting
stemmed from hacked materials?  
      
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Are you talking about the campaign?  
  
Q    It would have been the campaign or anyone around the family.  Just
wondering, because the — in the Twitter Files released and what Matt
Taibbi said, he noted that, typically, the company would require a law
enforcement or official finding that something was hacked in order to
exercise their hacked materials clause, and that they didn’t — he didn’t
see that in what had been given to him.  
  
So, I’m wondering if it was communicated, even informally, by someone
around the President or the President’s family or the campaign that this
was hacked material or could have come from hacked material, given that
there was so much concern, especially after the 2018 foreign
interference situation, that that could be something that we would see
in that election.  So I’m wondering if there was that communication
there surrounding the Hunter Biden laptop story.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So I can’t speak to decisions made by — by the
campaign from here.  That is not — it is a political campaign, so I
can’t speak from that from here — to that from here.  I’m covered by the
Hatch Act.  And so I’m just not going to comment on the question that
you’re asking me.  
  
But what I can say more broadly is: Of course, it’s up to these
companies to make their own decision about the content on their
platforms and to ensure content follows their own standards and
policies.  But I’m just not going to comment on a decision that was made
during the campaign.

Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you, Karine.  I have two questions for you.  Following the
explosion near the border with Ukraine, Poland just accepted Germany’s
offer to deploy Patriot missile defense systems to Eastern Poland.  But
initially, the Polish government said that Patriots should be delivered
to Ukraine.  So can you comment on the deployment?  And I’m wondering if
the President sees a need to transfer Patriots to Ukraine, either by
NATO and the — or the U.S., considering continued Russian attacks on
civilian infrastructure in Ukraine.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, to your first question — so we would leave it to
Germany and Poland to speak about the specifics of what is being
provided.  That’s for them, their own governments to speak to.  As a
general matter, we welcome Allied efforts to bolster NATO’s collective
defenses.   
  
And to your — to your last question about NATO and how this could be
provided: Look, we’re in close — close contact with Ukrainians about
their security assistance needs, as you’ve heard us speak to many times
from this podium, and have been working to provide Ukraine with air
defense systems to help them protect their country.  
  
But I — again, I don’t have anything to preview today — for you today on
this — on that particular issue.  
  
Q    One more, if I could.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Sure.  
  
Q    Hungarian Prime Minister Viktor Orbán said recently that Hungary
will ratify Sweden’s and Finland’s membership in NATO early next year. 
Does the President have any update from Turkey, which, it looks like,
will be the only holdout?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, I would refer you to the Turkish government
to speak about their own position.  Certainly not something that we’re
going to do from here. 

But what I can say is that we have been a strong supporter of Finland
and Sweden’s applications for a NATO membership and worked with the
Senate to move quickly to ratify their applications.  And so we have
welcomed the rapid ratifications by our Allies, and we urge all
remaining Allies to compete — complete their own ratification process as
quickly as possible.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  Are you guys confirming reporting from Bloomberg
today that the President will travel to Mexico and meet with the Mexican
president on January 9th and hold a trilateral with López Obrador and
Trudeau on January 10th for the North American Leaders’ Summit?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We’re — we’re still working through the plans. 
Nothing has changed since I was last asked this question.  And we’ll let
you know if we have anything more to share.  
      
Q    And on the U.S.-Africa Leaders Summit, are there any details you
can share about any bilateral meetings he’s holding?  And given the
focus of competition with China and the National Security Strategy, do
you expect it to be a big topic at next week’s summit?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So I don’t have any bilateral meetings to share at
this time on — on the Africa Summit — Leaders Summit that’s happening
next week, as you just stated.  We — and I mentioned this a little bit
at the end of our — of the briefing on Monday: We’ve invited 49 African
heads of state to Washington, D.C., for a three-day summit to highlight
how the U.S. and African nations are strengthening our partnerships to
advance shared — shared priorities.  
  
The summit reflects the U.S. strategy towards Sub-Saharan Africa with
empha- — which emphasizes the critical importance of the region to meet
this era’s defining challenges.  
  
We will have more, as we do normally, background calls and more to share
on — on what is to be expected during those — that three-day summit.

Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  My colleague had asked you on Monday about the
drug shortages question, and I just wanted to follow up on that.  Is
this something that the President has been engaged in?  Has he been
briefed on medicine shortages?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So let me just say this and a lit- — share — share
where we are.  So, as I’ve said — as you mentioned, on Monday, I was
asked by your colleague — I believe, Ben — the administration is closely
monitoring for the possibility of any national shortages.  Medicine
shortages are — are not uncommon and is closely monitored and led by FDA
and HHS, who are experts on this.  Right?  This is their focus.   
  
Health officials are in close communication with manufacturers around
these medicines.  While we cannot force a manufacturer to make more of
any drug, the conversations have been focused on understanding their
supply and production levels, as well as if there — if there are any
needs that we can assist with to ensure steady supply.  We stand ready
to help if there is a need.

As — also as part of these conversation, FDA and HHS are in touch with
manufacturing associates who continue to tell the public that they are
seeing strong supply chains for these products.

So that work, again, is ongoing.  And as a reminder, we stand ready to
help states and jurisdictions as they face the confluence of winter
illness.

But, also, importantly, we are aggressively pushing everyone to get
their flu and COVID shots.  I said this on Monday.  It is important to
do.  That is how folks are going to protect themselves and their
families, especially as we’re going into — continuing the holiday
season.

So, we stand ready to provide resources to states, like ventilators and
PPE, as well as personnel to help in hospitals.

Just last week, Secretary Becerra sent a letter to the nation’s
governors reminding them to request those resources if they need to — if
they need it.  Again, this is something that FDA and HHS is managing.

But as I just stated, we are — we are ready to help when needed, when
those requests come in.

Q    The FDA and agencies don’t have much visibility into the supply
chain issues.  They’ve said that they’re really dependent on the
industry to give them information on any issues and whether there are
shortages.  Does the White House think it’s time for the FDA to get more
involved so that they can get better information from companies?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, I just stated in my — my layout here that FDA
and HHS are in touch with manufacturing associates who continue to tell
— to tell the public that they are seeing strong supply chains for these
products.  So, that’s what they’re hearing, that’s what we’re all
hearing from these manufacturing associate — associations.  So, I’ll
leave it — I’ll leave it there.  But, again, I would refer you to FDA
and HHS, as they are indeed the experts on this. 

But I’ve been very clear — you saw Secretary Becerra’s letter that I
just laid out — we are ready to help, and we have told states to
certainly ask for help if they need it.  And we’ll be ready to act.

Q    Following up on the question about whether concrete actions are
expected out of today’s roundtable on antisemitism, one of the Jewish
groups that participated is calling for a national strategy to address
the issue, and another wants the President to appoint a task force
charged with creating a national action plan.  Is the administration
looking at anything like either of those proposals?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, that meeting just occurred, I think, at 11
o’clock.  I don’t have any — a clear readout on what — on what was
actually asked or talked about.  I know you just laid out a few things. 
So, I would just need to go back to our teams and see how we’re going to
move forward.  Don’t want to get ahead of what — you know, of what could
be — what could be put forward on the next steps.  Just don’t want to
get ahead of that.

In the way back.

Q    Thanks.  Thanks, Karine.  On TikTok, I want to ask you about — so
Maryland and South Dakota became the latest two states to ban TikTok on
state devices.  Is the federal government, is the President considering
doing something here?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I’m not going to comment on TikTok while a CFIUS —
the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States — review is
ongoing, as you know, to address concerns posed by this particular app.

Generally speaking, the Biden administration is focused on the challenge
of certain — of certain countries, including China, seeking to leverage
digital technologies and America’s data in ways that present
unacceptable national security risk.

But, again, I’m just not going to comment on — on a ongoing review.

Q    Just one more on — President Xi is now in Saudi Arabia speaking
with the King and the Crown Prince.  There was much fanfare around his
visit.  Does the President feel slighted at all with his visit, which
didn’t get as much pomp and circumstance?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m sorry, say that one more time.

Q    So, there were dances and fanfare around the visit from President
Xi coming, and the President didn’t get the same kind of reception in
Saudi Arabia.  I’m wondering if there’s any slight —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  They met in Bali — right? — with — with —

Q    They met in Bali, but I’m talking about when the President went to
Saudi Arabia to visit MBS and — the Crown Prince.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  And so, your question is —

Q    My question is: Does he feel slighted that —  
      
     MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No.  
  
Q    — there wasn’t the same kind of fanfare?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, not at all. 

We’re going to keep moving.  Go ahead.

Q    Thank you.  I have two questions.  The first on NDAA.  Something
that wasn’t in the draft that got released today is legislation to
prevent a future president, or President Biden, from imposing a Schedule
F and moving gobs of civil servants into the excepted service.

Would the President — I won’t ask you if he would veto the NDAA without
it, but would the President support or encourage adoption of an
amendment to prevent this from happening in the future?  It was one of
the first things he did as President.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, I want to be very clear.  It’s still — you
know, this is still in process.  We know — you know, one thing very
clearly with this — the vaccine mandates and there’s still a process
going — a legislative process going.  I don’t want to get ahead of
that.  So, I’m just not going to comment right now as there’s
negotiations, and — and this piece of legislation is still moving
through the process.

Q    And then, second, there are reports in the last day or so that the
President is poised to appoint a new Northern Ireland envoy, but that
envoy would focus more on economic development than the Brexit, Northern
Ireland Protocol border situation.  If the envoy will not be focused on
that, does the President plan to get more involved to ensure a smooth
implementation of the Good Friday Agreement?  The 25th anniversary is
coming up in a matter of months.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m not going to get ahead of the special envoy and
what their — what their purview is going to be or not be.  I’m just not
going to get ahead of that.

Go ahead.

Q    Thank you, Karine.  I just wanted to follow up on TikTok.  I know
you said you can’t comment, but the U.S. business operations of the
company have effectively been in question for nearly three years.  And
I’m wondering at what point you think there might be an outcome, one way
or another, on whether it can operate here.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m just not going to comment on an ongoing review
that CFIUS is doing.  And, as you know, the review is — is ongoing to
address the concerns posed by the app.  I’m just not going to comment
from here.

Q    But the FBI Director has said publicly on Capitol Hill that it does
pose a national security concern, but company executives said just
yesterday they believe they’re on a path to resolve those concerns.  So,
does the administration have a view on whether those concerns can be
resolved?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, I talked about the challenges that we — that
are certain, that we — that we’re currently seeing.  So, I can say this
more broadly: that we’re taking the steps we can to address these types
of challenges.

For example, President Biden issued the first-ever as — presidential
directive, defining additional national security factors for CFIUS to
consider in — in line with this administration’s national security
priorities, like protecting America’s sensitive data.

And last year, President Biden put forward an executive order to protect
Americans’ sensitive — sensitive data from collect- — collection and
utilization.

The Commerce Department, with interagency support, is working to
implement this EO and utilize other related authorities.  And we will
continue to look at other actions that we can take on this — on this
matter.  But I’m just not going to comment on this specific issue.

Q    And finally, on voting rights: Are there any specific elements of
either the Electoral Count Act or the John Lewis Voting Rights Act that
the White House is seeking to add on to any year-end spending bill?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Can you say the first part of your question?

Q    On voting rights — voting rights has obviously been a huge priority
of this administration, and there’s a suggestion that there could be
some type of voting rights push here in the final weeks of the year,
that some elements of existing legislation could be added on to a
year-end spending bill.  Has the White House been discussing this with
leadership?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I’ve — I’ve spoken to this a little bit, about the
— about the importance of — of the President supporting the electoral —
the electoral piece.  I don’t have anything else to share on that. 
We’re going to let Congress continue to negotiate and move forward with
how they’re moving the next couple of weeks, but don’t have anything
specific.

I haven’t seen any language or anything specific about what you’re
asking on voting rights and others. 

All right.  I’ll see you guys tomorrow.  Thanks, everybody.

2:52 P.M. EST
