---
date: '2022-12-13'
modified_time: 2022-12-15 14:06:57-05:00
published_time: 2022-12-13 19:14:51-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2022/12/13/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-9/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine\_Jean-Pierre"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

2:36 P.M. EST

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Good afternoon, everybody. I know we have some serious
business ahead of us today, but as you know, sometimes a girl just want
to have fun. (Laughter.) I’m —

Q Ahhh —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Come on. Come on. Come one.  
(Laughter.) Come on, I’m trying. I’m trying, guys.

But in all seriousness, this afternoon we are celebrating a truly
historic moment for marriage equality. And so I brought a friend with
me, who is an icon, really doesn’t need any introduction, but we are
thrilled that she is here. We are honored to have her here with us today
on this important day. Cyndi Lauper, who has been advocating, as many of
you know, for LGBTQI+ community for decades, particularly to end youth
homelessness.

Cyndi will be performing this afternoon, and I thought I’d invite her to
— in front of all of you all today, to say a few words.

And, Cyndi, thank you so much for coming. The podium is yours.

MS. LAUPER: Thank you.

Hi. I just — I just want to tell you, I came here because I wanted to
just say thank you to President Biden, Speaker Pelosi, Vice President
Harris, and all the advocates, and his team. For — for once, a lot of
families — mine and a lot of my friends and people you know — sometimes
your neighbors — we can rest easy tonight because our families are
validated and because now we’re allowed to love who we love, which
sounds odd to say. But Americans can now love who we love.

And bless Joe Biden and all the people that worked on this for allowing
people not to worry and their children not to worry about their future.
Thank you.

And thank you for being supportive. And, hey, I will sing out to you.
(Laughs.) Thank you very much.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Thank you, Cyndi. Thank you so much.

Okay, thank you so much, Cyndi, for coming. Again, this is an extremely
historic day, a proud day for me and so many of us here at the White
House and so many Americans just across the country.

And we’ve — truly will be looking forward to Cindy performing on the
South Lawn today.

I know we don’t have a lot of time, and so we’ll go straight to
questions.

Zeke.

Q Thanks, Karine. Obviously, the news that the former founder of FTX,
Sam Bankman-Fried, was arrested in the Bahamas. The President received
campaign donations — campaign donations from him — and many prominent
Democrats did, some Republicans did as well. Will the President return
that donation? Does he call on all politicians who got campaign
donations that may have come from customer money to return those funds?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, look, I am covered here by the Hatch Act. I’m
limited on what I can say. And anything that’s connected to political
contributions from here, I would have to refer you to the DNC.

Q I mean, I’m asking the President’s opinion, though. You know, does he
want those — people who —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: No, you asked me two questions. You asked me about will
he return the donations, and then you asked me about his opinion. I’m
answering the first part, which is: I’m covered by the Hatch Act from
here. I am limited on what I can say. And I just can’t talk to political
contributions or anything related to that. I cannot speak about it from
here.

Q And then, his opinion, though — if you —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I — I just — just cannot speak to this from here. Even
his opinion, even his thoughts about the contributions, donations, I
cannot speak from it — from — about that from here.

Q And then —

Q Are you covered by the Hatch Act?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I am covered by the Hatch Act, which I’m happy to say
over and over again, because we believe in the rule of law here.

Q And just on a different topic. Next week, Title 42 is coming to an
end. How is the administration preparing for that? And what more is the
President prepared to do to stop people from crossing the border
regularly into the United States, illegally in many cases?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, what we are doing to need to prepare — we are
asking Congress, as you all know, for the resources. We’ve been
coordinating with leaders across the Western Hemisphere. As you all
know, we’ve reported on — of meetings that we’ve had and actions that we
have taken.

We’ve got anti-smuggling operations with Me- — with Mexico, Guatemala up
and running. And so that’s been incredibly critical as well.

We’re working to combat misinformation from mis- — from smugglers. And
as we — as was the case before Title 42 and remained the case after it,
individuals who attempt to cross the border unlawfully and don’t have a
legal basis to remain will be subject to removal. And we’ll — and we’ll
certainly have more in the coming days.

But, look, you know, you’ve heard us say this before, and we put the
question to Co- — to Congress: And what — what are they going to do
here? What — Republicans are asking, you know, how are we going to
secure the border. I’ve listed out on ways that we’ve tried and work —
to work on that.  
But we’re also wanting to do this on a bipartisan way. We’re talking
about — you know, we’re — the President’s about to sign this marriage
equality bill, which was done in a bipartisan way. So we know how to do
that. We know how to work with Republicans; Republicans know how to work
with us. So why don’t they work with us on this particular issue that is
important to — important to Americans across the country? And we’re
asking for them to join us on this — on this issue as well.

Go ahead.

Q Thanks. The President said he’s convinced inflation will continue to
go down, but we have, of course, seen some unexpected spikes over the
last past year. So just to be clear, is the White House confident that
inflation has, in fact, peaked?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, look, I know the President was asked this question.
He said — he also said, “I…” — you know, “I’m not able to predict this
as well,” in his comments today.

So, look, one of the things that I want to say is, like, today is a
welcome news to American families. Just across the country, the annual
consumer price index has fallen for the last five months, and so that’s
important to note.

And last week, we learned from — the producer price index, PPI, rose at
its slowest annual rate since May 2021. And near-term consumer inflation
expectations fall — fell.

So we have more work to do, as we know. The President has been doing a
lot of work on getting that gas prices down. And we have seen — seen
that fall about $1.75. Millions of Americans are going to save about 100
bucks per year on health insurance because of the work that the
President has done, because of the Inflation Reduction Act.

And so, look, we know there’s more work to do, and we’re going to
continue to do that. But, again, you know, the President said we’re not
able to predict. But we have seen some good signs from the data: CPI,
PPI. And so we’re just going to continue to do the work to make sure
that we do what we can to lower costs for American families.

Q You mentioned today is obviously a big day for this administration,
for the President. I’m wondering if he’s shared with you any of, you
know, his personal reflections. You know, the public has been with him
as he’s, you know, sort of evolved on this issue. And for you,
personally — I mean, you are the first openly gay Press Secretary. What
does this day mean for you?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: For — personally, this is a big day for me, but not
just me; there are many colleagues that I work with here who are allies,
who are also part of the community, who are very incredibly proud. We’re
going to see about two to three thousand people out in the South Lawn
who have worked — we’re talking about activists who have worked on this
issue for decades and people who are truly affected by what is happening
today — the signing of this bill.

I was just with the President as he was going through his remarks. And
the thing that I remember was, 10 years ago — you all — many of you all
have played this on your networks today — when he was on — on “Meet the
Press.” And he said something that, really, no other national elected
official was saying at the time: that marriage is a proposition. And
it’s about, you know, who you love, but if you are going — I’m going to
mess up his quote — but who you love, but also about if you’re going to
be loyal to that person. And I think that’s important.

And that is something that, again, he said 10 years ago when many people
were not saying that — many people in his position.

And he has always been an ally. I think I speak for many of us at the
White House today that we could not be prouder to be working for this
administration, to be working for this particular President, and to
working on all the issues that are going to change Americans’ lives and,
as we have seen, historic pol- — historic legislation over the last 22
months.

Q Karine, aside from the arrest of Sam Bankman-Fried, what actions can
you take to protect people from the collapse of the crypto market?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So we’ve taken — we have certainly — we have — this
administration has consistently urged Congress to take action to address
regulatory gaps posed by digital assets and support legislative efforts
to enact crypto legislation to better protect American consumers. Just
last month, Secretary Yellen, in fact, called on Congress to move
quickly to fill the regulatory gaps. That’s a quote that she said
herself. And the admin- — administration has — has identified what those
gaps look like.

But, again, we have urged — this is something for Congress to do. We
have urged Congress to take action, and we’ll continue to do that.

Q And Jake was a little unclear on this yesterday. Does the President
plan to travel to Africa next year?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, look, I don’t have anything to preview at this
time. As you said, Jake spoke to this just — just yesterday — 24 hours
ago. And there will be an announcement about a broad-based commitment to
travel to con- — to the continent in 2023 as it relates to the
President, as it relates to the Vice President, as it relates to Cabinet
secretaries as well, but we’re just not going to get ahead of that
announcement.

But, again, don’t have anything to preview today. But we’ll — we’ll have
something for you soon.

Go ahead.

Q Just following up on the Title 42 question. There is a bipartisan
framework in the United States Senate. There’s a vehicle moving right
around the time of the Title 41 — or Title 42 potential deadline. Is the
administration all in behind trying to get something done in this very
tight period of time? Do they feel like the Tillis-Sinema framework
isn’t quite there yet? How are you looking through that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, look, we’re encouraged by the bipartisan
conversations happening on immigration reform currently in Congress.

As you know, on the President’s first day in the — in the White House
and in his administration, he put forth a comprehensive immigration
reform because he understood how important this — this issue was.
Protections for DREAMers — that’s what was in that — that legislation
that he put for it — put forward. Cutting down the asylum backlog,
modernizing our outdated immigration system.

And so we’re — we’re going to let the process play out. I’m not going to
get ahead of it. As you know, there’s negotiations happening on this
framework that’s being led by Senator — Senators Sinema and Tillis. And
so — but, again, we’re encouraged by it.

And, you know, the President put that out there on day one — that this
is important and we needed to get this done.

Q And then, on another topic just real quick. There’s been some positive
smoke signals on omnibus negotiations, where they’re going. Do you feel
like the process is getting closer to the endgame you guys want at this
point, or too early to tell?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: We’ve been very clear on this, Phil, as you know. I
think you’ve asked me this question almost every time you’ve been in the
briefing room. (Laughter.)

Q Love appropriations.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I know. You love — you love appropriation. I understand
that.

And our view is this — and I — I’m repeating myself here as we’ve talked
about this over the past couple of weeks since — certainly since the
midterm elections, which is: There was a bipartisan agreement that was
done last year on this, and we believe that it could be done again this
year. And there’s enough time to get this done. This is not a part- —
partisan issue. We’re talking about bipartisan issues here when it —
when we talk about the American people, national security, right? We
talk about public health, public education — all key issues that matter
for all Americans across the — across the country.

And so, again, we are just going to continue to encourage Congress to
act and to get this done.

Go ahead.

Q Thank you. Does President Biden support or oppose legislation —
legislation that has stalled in Congress to create a 9/11-style
commission to investigate the U.S. response to the COVID pandemic? What
is the White House position on this?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So I think this has been asked before, I think during
Jen’s tenure. I don’t have anything more to add or more to look into on
this. I would have to go back to the team and see if our position has
changed. But nothing new for you.

Q But remind me, what was the position?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: No, I’m just saying —

Q Yeah.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: — I — I know that this has come up. I just don’t have
anything new to add. Or I can —

Q But — so is it —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: — go back and ask — and to see where we are on that.

Q So whether you — but does the administration support it or oppose it
or neutral?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I — I just — I just answered your question.

Q Okay.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I said, I know this has come up in the past, but I
don’t know if we’ve changed our position. I have to go back to see
exactly where we are on that particular question.

Q Okay, thank you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Go ahead.

Q Is there a sense today, with the President signing the Respect for
Marriage Act, that that makes it settled in America? Or is there still
some concern that, based on some of the comments from Justice Thomas or
the potential for other litigation, that this could still be an issue
that would be explored in the U.S.?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So I think — a couple of things there: Look, this is an
important civil rights accomplishment that achieved — that was achieved
in a bicameral and bipartisan way. And it got that support, right? And
when the President signs it today, it will build on gener- — it will
build on generations of civil rights advocacy that — that brought us to
this historic moment. So that’s important to note.

But, look, we understand: In spite of this important legislation, it is
also true that there are extremist conservatives who appear bent on
taking away fundamental rights, including marriage equality. This bill
provides an important measure of security and sta- — stability for
LGBTQI+ families. But their children should se- — should — should —
should see — should also — will also get the — attacked, right, as we
know, sadly. And their legal tax on marriage equality will continue to
persist.

And so there’s absolutely more work to be done on the LGBTQI — for the
LGBTQI community. And so you’ll hear from the President; he’ll talk
about that, the work that needs to continue to get done. And so that is
something that he understands.

This is, again, an important step forward, but we also have to pass the
Equality Act. That is also something that the President has called on
from the beginning of his administration and will continue to do.

But we cannot ignore how important today is, how important this moment
is, and how it actually builds on all the work that has been done across
the past couple of decades.

Q Thanks, Karine. Today, the President talked about his economic agenda,
you know, saying that it was part of the reason why we’re seeing
inflation easing. Does he also credit the Fed and the rate hikes as a
reason why we’re seeing inflation ease?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I’m just not going to respond to any actions that the
Fed has taken. They are independent. We are never going to comment about
that. They — we believe they have the best monetary policies to deal
with inflation, but not going to comment on the actions that they have
taken or the actions that they’re going to take.

The President — look, as we know, the President has taken — has an
economic policy, economic plans that we have seen him execute over the
past 20-plus months that has shown to have been effective in where we
are with our economy right now, to have shown that we’ve been able to
grow — well, “create,” I should say, 10-point — 10.5 million jobs that
matter, especially after what happened when he walked into the
administration with the pandemic, with what was happening with the
economy, the bipartisan infrastructure legislation, creating jobs,
good-paying jobs. And so that will continue.

He con- — he feels, as you heard from him today, this morning, that we
need to continue to make sure that we build an economy from the bottom
out and middle out, and that we don’t leave anyone behind. And so that’s
what he’s going to continue to focus on.

Q So is it fair to say that he thinks, in large part, it’s because of
his agenda?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Well, we have said — we have said, the — what we are
seeing today, with the economy being as strong as it is and what we have
been able to do with job creation and — we believe that a lot of that is
because of his economic policies.

Now, as it relates to inflation and what we’ve been seeing with
inflation: Of course, the President has made that his top — number-one
top economic priority, and making sure that we bring costs down. And
that’s why he’s taken actions on gas prices. That’s why he’s — he signed
the Inflation Reduction Act, because he wants to make sure that we’re
lowering cost for the American — American families.

But we have to remember what the President inherited here. When he
walked into this administration, we were dealing with the economy that
was struggling. We were dealing with Americans who were losing jobs. And
so he was able to turn that around. And that’s what he means about his
economic policy.

Go ahead, Steven.

Q Thanks, Karine. The President (inaudible) about to enact a landmark
piece of civil rights legislation, but I was hoping you could speak to
the concerns that some have expressed that what’s actually in the bill
could be read as something that codifies discrimination. There’s a
section here that speaks to the ability of nonprofit religious
organizations, faith-based social agencies, educational institutions,
employees of those organizations to deny services, accommodations,
facilities, goods, advantages, privileges to gay couples. So how is that
not codifying discrimination?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, a couple of things. Let’s — let’s walk through
what’s in the piece of legislation that the President is signing in a
few minutes. It codifies federal recognition of same-sex marriages. That
matters. Technically, the Defense of Marriage Act from the 1990s was
still on the books but essentially dormant because of the Obergefell
decision. This repeals DOMA and ensures federal recognition of same-sex
marriages. It requires states to recognize same-sex and interra- —
interracial marriages performed in other states. I.e. if Obergefell or
Loving falls and you get married — married in Massachusetts, Alabama
still has to honor the marriage. Meaning, if your husband, wife gets
sick, an Alabama hospital would still be required to let you see them.
That matters for so many millions of American across the country.

I know there’s questions about religious liberty. And so we believe that
— you know, we believe that the RFMA contains strong protections for
houses of worship and religious nonprofits. And this question was well
litigated throughout the legislative process where it passed with both
chambers of bipartisan support. And I think that matters, right?
Bicameral, bipartisan support was had for this piece of legislation.

And so, look, as the President said 10 years ago, as I mentioned, it
comes down to a fundamental question of who would you love — who do you
love and will you be loyal to that person.

This law ensures that it — it realized for all person. And that’s why so
many faith leaders and religious traditions have advocated in support
for this bill. So it has gotten support in a bipartisan way across the
country, in Congress, during this time — right? — where — you know,
where people say we can’t get things done. Here, we have this piece of
legislation that has gotten bipartisan support.

Go ahead.

Q Thanks, Karine. On immigration, how concerned is the administration
that there will be this unprecedented surge of migrants trying to come
across the border once Title 42 goes away?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, look, as you note — as — I know you guys are all
tracking that Secretary Mayorkas is in El Paso today. And he’s assessing
operations, and he’s speaking to the workforce down there. He’s also
meeting with local officials who have been — who have been incredibly
important partners as we rebuild our asylum system.

The Department of Homeland Security is working to quickly decompress
what we’re seeing in the El Paso area, for example, and safety and
efficiently screen and process migrants to place them in immigration
enforcement proceeding.

Over the last 18 months, DHS has deployed enhanced automated processing
system, automated surveillance towers, rescue beacons, and additional
personnel to the sector. In addition to that, CBP has deployed
additional agents support the sector. That’s on top of the mobile
processing units, medical screening personnel, and nearly 1,000 Border
Patrol processing coordinat- — coordinators DHS already had deployed in
the area.

So, look — look, this is something — again, the first day of the
President’s administration, he put forth a — a comprehensive immigration
reform bill because he understands how important this is. We have taken
action. We have — we have given the Department of Homeland Security
historic funding to deal with this very issue.

And so, we’re going to continue to monitor this. As I mentioned,
Mayorkas was down at the — at — in El Paso to talk to local officials,
to — who have been great partners with us.

And so, again, we’re going to do the work, we’re going to be prepared,
and we’re going to make sure we have a humane process moving forward.

Q There are some lawmakers who are arguing that Title 42 should be
extended somehow. Does the White House believe that’s even possible?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, look, you know, we are required by court order to
lift Title 42 by December 21st. That is the court order that we have
been given. And Department of Justice is going to lead that effort in
what happens next, so I’m not going to get ahead of that. But again, you
know, this is a court order that we’re following here.

Go ahead.

Q I wonder if the White House is worried that the inflation data, which
came out this morning, was leaked. There was big market movement about
two minutes before its — it came out, and I’m just wondering how the
White House has viewed that.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah, I’ve seen those — that reporting. Look, you know,
I think — we think that it’s — it’s being a little bit — how do I say?
It’s — you know, I think there’s too much — too much weight being put
into that and, you know, in how the market may have moved in a minor
way.

You know, I don’t — I don’t really have much more to add to that, but I
have seen the reports on it. And again, I think it’s just being a little
bit — we’re looking into it a little bit too much, I think.

Q But is the White House and Treasury looking into it at all, or are you
just not worried about it?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Look, I think that — look, when it — I can tell you
this: There were no leaks from here. I can tell you defi- —
definitively. Or at least I’m not aware of any leaks. And I know there
were very strict security protocols to prevent leaks.

But I think, again, people may be reading a little bit too much into
this — into some of the minor market movements. And so, anything more, I
would — I would refer you to the Department of Labor.

Go ahead.

Q Karine, thanks. Just to follow up on what Steve asked, we understand
how the legislation was framed and will be signed by the President. Do
you anticipate that this administration will go back or that the
Democrats will go back and try to clean up the language in the
legislation so it does not codify discrimination?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Look, what we’re saying to you today is that this —
this piece of legislation was done in a bipartisan, bicameral way, and
it will make a difference for millions of Americans across the country.
And we’re going to celebrate this moment. We are going to celebrate the
activists and the families who have worked very hard the last couple of
decades to make this happen. And that is what hap- — and that is what’s
important and that’s what you’re going to hear from this President
today.

Is there more work to do? Absolutely. There’s always more work to do.
And you’ll hear directly from the President. I’m certainly not going to
get ahead of him at this time. But, again, this is an important moment,
a historic moment that we — that we should not forget what it means to
many, many millions of Americans across the country.

Q And then quickly, to follow up on that. So he’ll sign that today, and
you say there’s more work to do. Or is he endorsing additional work to
try and change language?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I don’t — I don’t have anything to preview from here.

As I said, there are extreme — extreme conservatives who are going to
continue to attack this, who are — want to take away fundamental rights.
We saw what happened just in June with the Dobbs decision. And so we
take — you should take that very, very seriously.

But, again, this is an important day, and we are going to celebrate this
day with thousands of people who will be standing or sitting in the
South — on the South Lawn and hearing from Cyndi Lauper and the
President and the First Lady and the Vice President. It’s a really —
it’s a really good — it’s a really good day. It’s a very good day.

Q Karine, Emilie is giving us the hook in a minute. But maybe you can
just get one or two more in before we go outside?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Okay.

Q Thank you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Okay. Go ahead, Michael.

Q Thanks, Karine. There are reports that the administration is
considering slashing the number of Cubans, Haitians, and Nicaraguans
arriving at the border who would be eligible for asylum, while creating
new narrow pathways for those nationals to apply for some legal status
here. The concern is this was a model that was actually designed by
Stephen Miller in the prior administration. So is it true that the
administration is considering this new structure for these foreign
nationals?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, look, I — I was asked this question last week, and
I don’t have anything new to preview or to discuss at this time about
any policy changes or any policy announcement. So don’t have anything to
add. But I have heard those reportings, and I did speak to this last
week as well.

Go ahead.

Q Oh, sorry. You go ahead.

Q Thank you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I don’t have much time. So —

Q No. I have foreign policy question. I was wondering — there have been
clashes at the border between India and China, and the tensions are
pretty high between the two countries. Is this something the
administration is concerned about?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, look, we are glad to hear that both sides appear to
have quickly disen- — disengaged from the clashes. We are closely
monitoring the situation. We encourage India and China to utilize
existing bilateral channels to discuss disputed boundaries. Again, we
are — we’re glad to see that there has been some disengagement on the
clashes at this time.

Go ahead. I think you were — you allowed your colleague to go ahead of
you, so go ahead.

Q Thank you. With Republicans about to take control of the House, are
there additional economic policies the President wants to implement in
the next couple of months?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Look, the President has always been clear he is working
for the American — American people, American families to do everything
that he can to lower costs, as we were talking about the inflation that
we’re currently seeing as being one of his number one economic plans
here.

And then, you know, as you’ve seen him act on gas prices, as you’ve seen
him act on the Inflation Reduction Act, we’re going to see early next
year the real effects of the Inflation Reduction Act as it relates to
bringing down healthcare costs, energy costs.

So the President is never going to stop. He’s going to continue to do
that work. He’s always — you know, always happy to work with Republicans
and looking to reach across the aisle, as we’ve done with the bipartisan
infrastructure legislation, as we’ve done with the CHIPS and Science Act
in order to create jobs and bring jobs back — manufacturing jobs back to
— companies back to the country. And so we’re going to continue to do
that. That never — that will never end or never stop.

Okay. Go ahead.

Q Thanks, Karine. Is the White House whipping against Senator Bernie
Sanders’s war powers resolution that’s set for a vote in the Senate
tonight?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Look, we’ve spoken to this before. I don’t have
anything — much more to add. I know my colleagues actually was asked
this question last week. Don’t have anything more to really discuss or
lean into on this.

Q Bernie Sanders just said that he’s dealing with White House opposition
to it right now. So just hoping for a confirmation of what all is going
on there.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, look, I’ll say this: We’re in touch with members of
Congress on this. Thanks to our diplomacy, which remains ongoing and
delicate, the violence over nearly nine months has effectively stopped.
As we have seen during this administration, the situation is still
fragile and our diplomatic efforts are ongoing. So we want to make sure
that this is not impacted and the people of Yemen do not suffer or that
any of the progress we have made is overturned.

Again, I really don’t want to get ahead of the progress. We continue to
work with Congress on this. We’re having the conversations. I just don’t
want to get ahead of that.

Q Sounds like he might veto that if it comes to his desk.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I’m just — I’m just not going to make a prediction. I’m
certainly not going to make a prediction of what the President is going
to do, is not going to do. We’re having conversations with members of
Congress, and I will leave it there.

Q Thanks, Karine.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Thanks, everybody.

3:05 P.M. EST
