---
date: '2022-12-08'
modified_time: 2022-12-08 13:48:23-05:00
published_time: 2022-12-08 13:48:22-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2022/12/08/background-press-call-on-the-release-of-brittney-griner/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Background Press Call on the Release of Brittney\_Griner"
---
 
Via Teleconference

9:20 A.M. EST  
  
MODERATOR:  Good morning, everyone.  Thanks so much for joining us on
this background briefing.  We’re going to share some additional
information about the United States’ successful efforts to secure the
release of Brittney Griner.   
  
Just to start with some ground rules before we dive in: The call is
going to be on background, attributable to “senior administration
officials.”  It’s going to be embargoed until the end of the call.  
  
Not for attribution but for everyone’s awareness, our speakers this
morning are \[senior administration official\] and \[senior
administration official\].  
  
I’ll now turn it over to \[senior administration official\], who will
provide some important information for you all and this good news.  And
then he’ll turn it over to \[senior administration official\].  So — and
then we’ll take a few of your questions.     
  
So, with that, I’ll give it over to \[senior administration
official\].  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thank you so much.  And thanks to all
of you for joining us this morning, especially on pretty short
notice.   
  
I’ll cut to the chase.  After months of being wrongfully detained under
intolerable circumstances, Brittney Griner is on her way home to her
wife Cherelle and her family.  
  
We can confirm that Brittney is in good health and that she is being
offered a wide range of support options following her time wrongfully
detained.  
  
Let me start by putting today in context.  Throughout this
administration, President Biden has prioritized the safe return of all
Americans held hostage and wrongfully detained abroad.  We have, as an
administration, been gratified and proud to celebrate the return home of
American hostages and wrongful detainees from Afghanistan, from Burma,
from Haiti, from Russia, from Venezuela, from West Africa, and from
other parts of the world in cases that we have quite deliberately kept
discreet for particular reasons.    
  
Throughout our work in this area, we have engaged extensively with
families of detained Americans, as well as families of freed Americans,
as well as advocates for these causes.  And that’s, again, truly in the
very first days of this administration.   
  
I would also emphasize that in each particular case, as we worked
through the very challenging circumstances and complications on the way
to bringing someone home, we have continued to engage with families and
provide them with regular updates on our efforts to bring their loved
ones home.  
  
Now, today’s news — Brittney’s safe return home — is the product of
months and months of painstaking negotiations that ultimately, in their
success, reflected the culmination of extraordinary efforts across the
U.S. government.  
  
As the Secretary of State said publicly back in July, we had been and
continue to engage in difficult negotiations with Russia for the release
of both Brittney and Paul Whelan, who is very much on our minds today
and whom I’ll return to momentarily.  Through the summer, into the fall,
we followed up on our initial proposal that the Secretary of State
referenced at the time with constructive alternatives.  
  
Finally, in recent days, we were able to reach agreement on an option to
secure Brittney’s release, and the President — President Biden made the
difficult decision to accept that option because it resulted in the safe
return home of an American.  That is always our goal, of course: Get
wrongfully detained Americans home safely, then keep working for the
return of others.  
  
And more specifically, through multiple, multiple engagements, the
Russians made clear that the only route to securing Brittney’s return
was the release of a Russian national, Viktor Bout.  
  
As many of you know by this point, Bout has been in U.S. detention for
over 12 years.  He was convicted in 2011.  He’s been serving his
sentence, and he was scheduled for release in 2029.  Nothing can remove
the stigma of his guilty conviction in the U.S. justice system where, I
would emphasize, he received due process of law, access to counsel, and
a whole host of other rights and protections that Brittney was,
appallingly, denied in the sham proceedings she faced in Russia. 
Nothing can change the fact that Bout has spent over 12 years behind
bars in U.S. custody, paying a price for his crimes.  
  
In the last 48 hours, as this has all come together, Brittney was moved
from the penal colony, where she was being held, to Moscow.  And this
morning, she was brought to the United Arab Emirates, where she was met
by U.S. officials.  We, as a government, extend our deepest appreciation
to the UAE who assisted in facilitating the transfer today.  
  
Now, as we speak, Brittney is en route back to the United States where
she will be reunited with her family and, as I mentioned, will be
offered a wide range of additional support that the U.S. government
provides to returning hostages and wrongfully detainees.   
  
The President was with Brittney’s wife, Cherelle, this morning to relay
the very good news and indeed, as you all know at this point, to speak
with Brittney from the tarmac in the UAE.  
  
I want to speak directly to the very challenging nature of all of this,
even as we, of course, celebrate Brittney’s return.  Simply put,
negotiations for the release of wrongful detainees are often very
difficult, in part because the price paid for an American’s freedom can
be steep, and in part because the immediate results of this work can
feel unfair or arbitrary.  
  
So, while we celebrate Brittney’s homecoming, we remain committed to
seeing Paul Whelan likewise released.  We have been raising Paul
Whelan’s case with the Russians since the earliest days of this
administration.   
  
Yesterday, Paul’s extraordinary sister was visited in person by a senior
U.S. government official to share and talk through at length the news
about Brittney.  I would also emphasize that the President has made
clear to the Whelan family that when they are ready, he is eager to
personally convey his commitment to Paul’s case and his resolution to
keep them informed of our efforts.  
  
I would add that another senior U.S. official spoke at length today with
Paul from prison and talked through today’s news.  
  
Through every step of the process to secure Brittney’s release, we, as a
government, have sought to bring Paul Whelan home as well.  We did so in
good faith with the Russians and proposed multiple different options. 
Regrettably, due to the nature of the sham espionage charges Russia
levied against Paul, the Russians have treated — continue to treat his
situation differently from Brittney’s and rejected each and every one of
our proposals for his release.  
  
So I want to be very clear: This was not a situation where we had a
choice of which American to bring home.  It was a choice between
bringing home one particular American — Brittney Griner — or bringing
home none.   
  
We will never relent until we bring Paul home, too, along with other
Americans held hostage and wrongfully detained globally.  And at the
same time, we are deeply relieved, gratified that today we are bringing
Brittney Griner home to a family that loves her, a team that misses her,
and a country that has marveled at her strength and courage.  
  
I also want to thank those outside government who have engaged with us
constructively and worked to improve Griner’s conditions while detained
and to support government efforts to get — to reach this result,
including Governor Bill Richardson, as well as a number of others who’ve
shown a great deal of care and concern about this case.  
  
Finally, I want to emphasize that this administration sees our
responsibility in this area as a twofold challenge: to resolve current
cases, like Brittney’s, by bringing Americans home; and to prevent and
deter future cases from ever occurring in the first place.

We’ve had some pretty remarkable successes in the first category, as an
administration, including in the wide range of countries around the
world I mentioned earlier.   
  
I want to emphasize right now that we’re also working tirelessly on the
second piece.  That is why President Biden issued an executive order
this summer authorizing sanctions and visa prohibitions against those
who are linked to hostage-taking and wrongful detention.  It’s why
Secretary of State Blinken has put U.S. diplomatic weight behind a
Canadian-led initiative to bolster the international norm against
arbitrary detention and to build a coalition to make the use of human
beings as political pawns a thing of the past.  And it’s why the State
Department introduced, this summer, the “D” for wrongful detention
indicator, which warned, even more starkly and clearly, Americans
against traveling to countries where the threat of enduring the horrific
experience that Brittney has been through looms particularly large.  
  
Now I’ll ask my colleague, \[senior administration official\], to share
a bit of color from today’s events before my colleague and I take a few
of your questions.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks, \[senior administration
official\], for the detailed rundown.  And, again, I appreciate
everybody jumping on the call on such short notice.  Again, as you can
tell, it’s a very fast-breaking event, but was able to talk to
Ambassador Carstens to get a few details that we can provide.   
  
As you all well know, Roger was able to greet BG on the tarmac upon her
release this morning, specifically to let her know that he was there to
bring her home and was there on behalf of the President and Secretary
Blinken.   
  
As you all know, BG has gone through quite an ordeal.  That said, you
know, in an extremely upbeat mood, all smiles, and extremely grateful
for all the efforts, both USG and outside the government, that has been
put on to get her home.  Also expressed that she is very much looking
forward, obviously, to getting home to her wife Cherelle, her family and
friends, and the broader WNBA team.   
  
Aside from that, for privacy reasons, we’re not going to get into too
much more.  But, again, appreciate everybody on this call, our Emirati
partners for helping to broker this transaction, and the broader U.S.
government for all the efforts to get BG home.  
  
MODERATOR:  With that, we’ll start taking questions.  
  
Q    Hi, thanks so much for doing the call.  A couple of questions. 
One, when did it become clear that they would only accept the
one-for-one offer?  And have the Russians committed to continue the
negotiations on this matter?  Will they continue to negotiate for Paul? 
And how can the U.S. provide anything else, given they have given the
top incentive, Viktor Bout, already?   
  
And then, if I could ask: The Saudis are claiming they have played a
role in this.  Can you speak to that at all?  Thank you.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, thanks for the good questions. 
So, maybe I’ll take them in a slightly different order.   
  
So, there are a number of governments and countries that, throughout the
horrific ordeal that Brittney has been through and the horrific ordeal
that continues for Paul Whelan, we have asked to convey just how serious
we are about resolving these cases once and for all.  And I’ll leave the
details of that out.   
  
But I would say that we do engage with a wide range of countries so that
the Russians hear from a wide range of sources about our commitment to
resolving these and what a priority that is.  
  
Again, I’ll probably say a little bit vaguer than you might like,
Jennifer, but it became clear in recent weeks, I would say, that the
choice was, as I put it before, which is that it was a choice to bring
Brittney Griner home right now or bring no one home right now.  And that
was despite efforts that, as you know, go back weeks and months to try
to secure what we wished we’d been able to secure today, which is two
Americans coming home.  But we celebrate one coming home, and we keep
working to bring Paul and other Americans wrongfully held elsewhere.  
  
I think we have every reason to expect that the channel will remain open
to continue to negotiate for Paul Whelan’s release.  The Russians know,
directly from us in multiple channels, how unacceptable we find his
detention, how urgent we regard his release, and how committed we are to
breaking through the impasse and finding ways that will achieve the
result for him that we’re so glad to achieve — to have achieved for
Brittney today.  
  
Q    Yes, I have a couple of questions.  What precedent does this set
for the future, beyond the efforts for Paul Whelan?  Because we
understand that the United States, for decades, have said they’re not in
the negotiation process for hostages.  But what precedent does this
set?   
  
And when it comes to Paul Whelan, does this jubilation from the White
House, from the nation make it harder to bring him home?  Because, at
first, the thought was that if everyone showed a push for Brittney
Griner, that she would be viewed as a pawn.  What say you to both of
those, please?  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, thanks for the good questions. 
So, look, I would say, on the first one, that administrations have long
resisted, wherever possible, releasing individuals early from our
justice system who’ve earned their time in our law enforcement system.  
  
And at the same time, the administrations before ours also made
exceptions to that in extraordinary and rare cases where that had
proven, through extensive negotiations, the only way to bring an
American home.

Now, given how extremely rare this is, any inference that somehow this
has become the norm would be mistaken.  And I don’t think governments
around the world would be wise to draw that inference.  But in the rare
case when there is an imperative to bring Americans home, which is a
real priority for this President, there sometimes are no alternatives
left and a heavy price has to be paid.  
  
You know, I guess I would say that, with respect to Paul Whelan, we are
trying to do everything in how we approach everything possible to bring
him home.  And to the extent there’s jubilation today, it is very much
tempered by a real consciousness of how unacceptable his circumstances
are and how committed we are to finding the way to break through and
bring him home.  
  
And, of course, there is great relief in Brittney coming back.  But I
think what the Russians have heard from us, privately and publicly, and
what they will see today is our rejection of the way in which they have
treated him as they put him through sham proceedings that convicted him
of trumped-up espionage charges, and our insistence that we find a way
to resolve the situation and get him home where he belongs.  They’re
going to continue to hear that until we reach a point where he too is
coming home.  
  
Q    Hey, guys, thanks for doing this.  Two questions.  \[Senior
administration official, first on — several weeks ago, there was some
indication from a top Russian diplomat that things looked like they were
improving.  You all, in the U.S. government, shot that down and said
that was not true.  It sounds like maybe it was true though, at the
time, and you just didn’t want to talk about it.  Could you talk a
little bit about, sort of, you know, kind of how things — how and why
you think things changed?   
  
And then if you could talk a little bit more about the UAE.  You talked
about — somebody, I think, there just said the UAE helped — maybe
\[senior administration official\] said the UAE helped to broker the
deal.  Were they just a transit point?  Or did they — were they actively
involved in the, you know, discussions with the Russians that led to
this?  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, thanks, Mike.  I’ll take them in
the reverse order.  So, I think our gratitude is with the UAE for
providing that important transit site to facilitate the exchange.  
  
Now, I would emphasize what I said before, which is we have leaned on
countries around the world at various times in recent weeks and months
to convey to the Russians how serious we’ve been about resolving
wrongful detention matters.  And we appreciate when those countries
raise those issues as we’ve requested.   
  
But I think today our real focus is on the way in which the Emiratis
provided a site where this could occur, as it did just a couple hours
ago.   
  
And then, you know, I’ll zoom out slightly on the first question, but
I’ll just say this: What is said by the Russians publicly, whether it’s
the Russian government or Russian media, often does not match what, in
fact, is occurring in private channels as we work to resolve these types
of issues or, in some cases, talk about other matters where
appropriate.  And we tried to be very candid with all of you and with
the American public about that fact, even if sometimes things can get
made true later by other developments.  But we try to be candid that
there should be a real weariness about what the Russians say, because it
does not reflect reality sometimes.   
  
I’ll leave it there.  
  
Q    Hey, guys, thanks very much.  Let me go back to April’s line of
questioning.  And perhaps these are obvious questions that you’ve tried
to answer a little bit, but I want to just be specific about them.   
  
How was it acceptable to trade a woman who is wrongfully detained for a
criminal who is so notorious he has the nickname “The Merchant of
Death”?  And given the notoriety of Bout, how do you avoid governments
looking around the world and thinking, “Well, geez, if I just take one
of theirs, we can get back someone even bigger that’s one of ours?” 
Thanks.    
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, thanks, Nick.  So I guess we
start by asking ourselves this question: How is it acceptable for
someone like Brittney Griner to be put through sham proceedings and
forced to spend, as she was sentenced to, nine years in a Russian penal
colony in horrific circumstances that she did not deserve?  And we
regard that as unacceptable.   
  
And from there, we work to make it not so and to bring Americans home. 
We try to explore all sorts of alternatives.  We try to pay, of course,
as little a price as possible.  But ultimately, we feel there’s a moral
obligation, frankly, as well as a policy obligation to bring people who
are being held hostage or wrongfully detained home.   
  
And I would also emphasize that the best antidote to future predicaments
like that is avoiding these types of cases arising in the future.  And
so I’ll go back to what I mentioned earlier, which is we, as an
administration, have been very committed to deterring and preventing the
next set of potential cases from even happening to begin with.  That’s
why we’ve expanded the toolkit that we, as a government, can use to do
that, including the abili- — expanding our ability to impose serious
costs and consequences: sanctions, like visa bans, on governments, on
non-state actors, on individuals associated with governments and
non-state actors who are involved in hostage taking or in wrongful
detention.   
  
It is also why we have tried to make even starker, even clearer to the
American people and the traveling public where they are at risk.  So, in
addition to the particular language of travel advisories that have long
warned Americans about the risk of wrong detention by certain foreign
governments, that “D” for wrongful detention indicator, which joined a
previous “K” for kidnapping indicator, and has been applied to six
countries, are a — that represents part of that effort to guide
Americans away from the choices that can land them and us, as a
government, in this type of very challenging predicament in the first
place.  
  
Q    Yes, hi.  A couple questions.  I want to get a sense of when
exactly did President Biden make the decision.  How was the one-or-none
option presented to him?  And sort of on this Bout thing as well, has
the NSC done any sort of assessment on an increase in security risks now
that Bout would be back in Russia and able to do his work again?  Thank
you.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, thanks, Alex.  So, I’ll answer
each of those at a slightly higher level of generality, which is to say
that the President personally has tracked closely, for months now, the
negotiations — which, as I emphasized, are focused on getting both
Americans held wrongfully detained in Russia home — and was kept updated
on those.  
  
And, ultimately, as it became clear what the choice was, as I’ve
emphasized, that it was — which is bringing Brittney Griner home right
now or bringing no American home from Russia right now — I would say it
was in recent weeks that that materialized and that he made the very
painful decision to provide the clemency necessary to get this done and
indeed to get it done.   
  
I would also say, on your second question, that as we work through
different permutations and arrangements that are even conceivable to us
in hostage and wrongful detainee negotiations — even before they
necessarily are on the table with respect to a negotiating partner — we
think that through from a wide range of angles and perspectives.   
  
That includes the consequences of the type of release that was a
prerequisite to getting Brittney home today, and we factor that into the
analysis that we do on whether to proceed.  And, of course, we share
that with senior administration officials across the government.   
  
And I think I’ll probably — probably leave it at that.  
  
Q    Hi, thank you.  \[Senior administration official\], I just wanted
to ask you to — just stepping back a little bit — what do you think this
deal says about the ability of the United States and Russia to do
business at a moment where, you know, not only is there this very
intense tension over Ukraine and the speculation about the use of
nuclear weapons, but also, you know, an increasing amount of other
unrelated things that are grinding to a halt, like, you know,
cooperation in the Arctic and New START and everything like that?  What
do you think this says about the broader U.S.-Russia relationship?  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, thanks for the good question,
Missy.  So maybe I’ll say two things on that.  One is that, of course,
getting this done and reaching the result that is such a relief and that
it brings Brittney home in no way  
detracts from or minimizes how appalled we are at Russian aggression in
Ukraine, the atrocities that have been reported from there, and the way
in which the Russian military adventurism is disrupting peace and
stability in Europe and, frankly, elsewhere.  
  
But that leads me to point two, which is: Getting this done in the midst
of that — much as getting Trevor Reed home a number of months ago, as
this was unfolding as well — speaks to this administration’s commitment
to and ability to work through the return of Americans held hostage or
wrongfully detained with even some of the actors in the world we get
along least well with.  And that’s not just a coincidence.  It is often
the actors we get along with the least well who engage in the horrific,
appalling practice of using human beings as pawns, as bargaining
chips.  
  
But if we’re going to bring them home, it means talking to those
entities and it means ultimately working through an arrangement that
gets Americans where they should be: with their loved ones at home.   
  
And so that’s a couple of takeaways, Missy, that I hope are helpful.  
  
Q    Hey, thanks.  Thanks so much.  I wanted to just build on Missy’s
questions there.  In regards to, you know, reaching that agreement, in
addition or beyond just showing what the administration’s effort, but
does it signify that there is better dialogue in any way?  Is there now,
the fact that you’ve reached this agreement, some goodwill that can be
employed to make agreements on other factors — some of the other matters
that you were discussing before, such as Ukraine or some of these other
big issues?  Is there more opportunity for discussion in other areas?  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  So, I guess — here’s what I’d say,
which is neither quite a “yes” or a “no” to that, but these were very
targeted, very focused negotiations.  They concerned one very important
topic, but one narrow topic alone, which is: Americans who are being
wrongfully detained in Russia.   
  
And we are, of course, gratified to have achieved success in bringing
Brittney home.  And we do think, as I indicated before, it speaks to an
ability to get this sort of thing done even when we are in the midst of
very tough relations with a government like Russia.  But I also want to
emphasize that this was — this was targeted.  This was focused as a
dialogue.   
  
I should use that as an opportunity to emphasize that we have briefed
key partners, including Ukrainians, on this result so that they too
understood that this was about one thing and one thing alone: resolving
wrongful detention cases.  And that there are many other issues that we
have not broached with the Russians and would not broach with them out
of sync with those sorts of partners.  
  
Q    Hi, \[senior administration official\].  Thank you so much for
doing this.  I was wondering if you could talk a little bit in more
specifics about which American officials and which Russian officials
were involved in the official channels, negotiations, and also as well
about the specific role played by Governor Richardson and Mickey
Bergman.   
  
And then, more specifically, you mentioned that the U.S. had offered
alternative options as part of these negotiations, so I’m wondering if
you could talk a little bit about what else you were prepared to do and
then, I guess, what else Russia would have wanted that could have also
secured the release of Paul Whelan that perhaps the U.S. was not
prepared to do.  Thank you.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks, Eric.  And I’ll probably give
less detail on each of those than you’d like, but I’ll take a stab at
both, of course.   
  
So, I’ll stay away from kind of getting into the details of who
negotiated with whom because I want to leave that to the negotiators.  
  
But I am very, very grateful for a wide range of parts of the U.S.
government that collaborated on various pieces of this, from
negotiations to the facilitation of the exchange that actually occurred
today.   
  
And as I indicated before, there’s gratitude from the government to
outside advocates who raised their voices in support of Brittney, like
Governor Richardson, who tried to be constructive in keeping us informed
as to how they were thinking about the matter.  And we appreciate those
outside governments who care about these cases, just the way we care
about them, and who worked (inaudible) to resolve them the way we were
delighted to be able to do today.  
  
It won’t surprise you, Eric, that I’m going to stay away from specifying
alternatives discussed in sensitive negotiations.  But I would just
emphasize what I said before, which is: We explored a wide range of
alternatives and permutations that we felt were, frankly, quite generous
in resolving both cases as we sought so eagerly to do.  And, ultimately,
we were confronted by only the choice that I mentioned.  
  
But I will leave those to negotiators to pick up on as we do what we
need to do and what we will do, which is work tirelessly to get done the
piece that remains, which is bringing Paul Whelan home too.  
  
Q    Hi, it’s Peter Alexander from NBC News, using Sally’s dial-in. 
Appreciate you guys doing this call.  Could you help us with some of the
details about the tick-tock, the timeline about when she would have
departed from the penal colony, when she got to where, when she got to
UAE?  
  
And then, separately, upon Brittney’s arrival back in the U.S.,
specifically where she’ll be and what type of treatment — what the sort
of process looks like, strategic debriefing and what happens for someone
in a situation like this upon her return to the U.S.  
  
If you could walk us through the timeline, including when Cherelle
Griner would have got the indication and when she first flew back to the
White House to meet with the President and how it was first communicated
to her.  Appreciate it.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, thanks, Peter.  So, it was a
couple of days ago that — consistent with where conversations were going
with the Russians — they moved Brittney from the penal colony to Moscow
in preparation for what occurred today.  And then they flew her this
morning to the Emirates where, as I mentioned, the exchange occurred.  
  
She is now, as I indicated, in the air as she makes her return to the
United States.  She will be offered a wide range of support.  A program
has been developed, drawing on a tremendous array of expertise across
the U.S. government, to help those returning from being hostage or being
wrongfully detained deal with what they’ve been through and deal with
where they are now.  
  
And I will say I have spoken personally with returned detainees who’ve
been through that process and who have indicated to me how valuable they
find it, just how helpful it is to have expertise and guidance at
adapting from just horrific circumstances — different forms of horrific
circumstances, depending on where individuals have been held and how
they’ve been treated, but nonetheless horrific circumstances — to what
can be the daunting task of acclimating to a far better life, but
nonetheless a life that’s become unfamiliar.   
  
And so, Brittney will be, of course, offered that full range of
services.  It’s up to her as to whether to elect to take them.  How long
those last depend a bit on a person’s preferences and a bit on how the
experts feel it is proceeding.  And out of respect for her privacy, you
probably won’t hear much from us as a government as to those next
steps.   
  
But it is important that folks realize that not only do we work hard to
bring people home, but we work hard then to help them with that
transition back to being home.  And all of that is, of course, available
to Brittney the way it is to every American that we bring home.  
  
Q    Thank you, everybody, for having this call this morning.  I wanted
to — I have a actually two-part question.  One, Brittney Griner is an
African American person, so do you know if she experienced any
incidents, in particular, of racism whilst she was in prison?   
  
Secondly, will the U.S. be learning more from her about what the
prisoners held in Russia experience while being detained?  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, thank you for those questions. 
And, look, we will be keen to learn whatever she’s comfortable sharing.
 She will obviously be treated with — as all who return in these
circumstances do — with incredible dignity and respect.  But if and when
she is comfortable sharing that, we are, of course, eager to learn.  It
helps us as we — as we deal with these types of cases.   
  
And I can only begin to imagine some of what it must be like to be an
American held in a Russian penal colony, but she’s actually experienced
it.  And if and when she’s comfortable sharing that, we have a lot to
learn, I’m sure, from her with respect to racism, with respect to
whatever else she might have been subjected to in conditions that, as
you all know, we believe she should never have been subjected to in the
first place.  
  
Q    Hey, guys.  Thanks for doing this.  Just a couple quick ones.  The
Saudis are claiming credit alongside the UAE for helping facilitate the
deal and that the Crown Prince was involved.  Can you say what his role
was?  
  
And then, on Bout, I’m wondering — there’s some reports out of Russia
that he was pardoned before he was sent out.  Can you confirm if that’s
true?  
  
And then, just to get back to the broader question: If, you know, you
found in these negotiations he wasn’t enough to kind of spring the
release of Paul Whelan, do we feel like we have folks — you know,
Russians detained here or leveraged — to negotiate a deal for Paul
Whelan’s release?  Can you kind of talk out the extent to which you’re
worried that the deal — I mean, for the price for him has gone up?  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, thanks.  Maybe I’ll take the
questions in reverse order.  So, look, if we had exactly enough to bring
Paul Whelan home, he’d be home today, too.  It is an indication that we
don’t right now, or at least in the Russians’ view, we don’t.  
  
But that — it’s just a matter of continuing to negotiate and continuing
to explore options and alternatives and generate a point at which we do
bring him home.  
  
But it is, of course, a concern to us that — any American remains in
wrongful detention or held hostage is of concern to us.  And this — and
Paul is, of course, particularly on our minds, as I emphasized before,
today of all days.  
  
With respect to Bout, it’s an opportunity to emphasize what I said
before, which is to be cautious of what you read from the Russians.  But
what has to happen in an instance like this is a act of clemency from
the President, which ended Bout’s time in U.S. custody after the over 12
years he had spent in it, and it yielded his release sooner than his
otherwise scheduled release of 2029.  It is an act of clemency.  And the
guilt of his conviction remains.  
  
And then, finally, on your first question, I think I’ll revert to what I
said to Jennifer earlier, which is that in the course of getting to this
happy result with respect to Brittney, and in the course of working to
secure the release of Paul as we continue to do, we have and I’m sure
we’ll continue to lean on partners around the world to work this through
with us, to give us their ideas, and to impress upon the Russians how
important it is to us to resolve these sorts of cases.  And we
appreciate when those partners do help us in those efforts.  And I’ll
leave it there.  
  
MODERATOR:  All right.  And this concludes our call.  Thank you all so
much for the time.  Take care.  
  
9:57 A.M. EST
