---
date: '2022-12-06'
published_time: 2022-12-06 15:58:21-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2022/12/06/press-gaggle-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-and-national-economic-council-director-brian-deese-en-route-phoenix-arizona/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Gaggle by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre and National Economic Council\
  \ Director Brian Deese En Route Phoenix,\_Arizona"
---
 
Aboard Air Force One  
En Route Phoenix, Arizona

12:31 P.M. EST  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So we’re pleased to be joined by the National Economic
Council Director, Brian Deese, today — right behind me.  I’ll give you —
I’ll give a quick overview and then turn over — turn over the floor, or
the aisle, over to him.  
  
As you know, we are in route to Phoenix, Arizona, where President Biden
will discuss the American manufacturing boom at TSMC’s semiconductor
material manufacturing facility as the company makes two major
announcements about building advanced semiconductors in the U.S.   
  
To mark the importance of these announcements, the President will be
joined by a range of CEOs including Apple’s Tim Cook.  He’ll also be
joined by Secretary of Commerce Gina Raimondo, Arizona Governor Doug
Ducey, Governor-Elect Katie Hobbs, and several members of the state’s
congressional delegation.   
   
During his remarks, the President will discuss how TSMC’s new
investments in Phoenix are a result of his economic plan, including the
CHIPS and Science Act.  Today’s announcement is just another example of
how President Biden’s economic plan is growing the economy from the
bottom up and middle out, creating jobs, revitalizing manufacturing,
strengthening our supply chains, and giving families more breathing
room.  
  
And with that, I’ll turn it over to Brian Deese.  Okay.  
  
MR. DEESE:  Thank you so much.  I would note the one and only Mayor
Bottoms is here today too.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  She wanted to see what this was all about. 
(Laughs.)  
  
MR. DEESE:  This is pretty exciting.   
  
So I’ll be super brief and happy to get to your questions.  I think
you’re all tracking this, but I would just say, as we think about the
day and what we’re trying to accomplish, I think about it in sort of —
in four categories.   
  
The first is with respect to the TSMC facility that the President will
be visiting.  This is a — what I think is being referred to as a “First
Tool-In” ceremony where — it’s a term of art for semiconductor
facilities but not breaking ground.  They built the facility, but now
they’re starting to actually put together the operations inside this —
inside this production facility.  The President is excited to see that
progress up close and personal.   
  
Second is the announcement TSMC is making about its plan to expand to a
second fab and, in particular, a commitment to build those most
leading-edge chips at the three-nanometer level here in the United
States.   
  
For those of you who have been following this, a big part of the
motivation behind what became the CHIPS and Science Act, which the
President really started on in his first month in office working on, was
to try to re-position the United States leadership in that leading edge
of the semiconductor ecosystem where the United States has fallen to
having no production here in the United States.  So that’s the other big
component of this.   
  
The third is the opportunity to talk with the broad — the broad spectrum
of the semiconductor industry from consuming companies: Apple, which is,
you know, the single largest customer of TSMC; AMD, you know, another
big chip consumer; but also Micron is here — is a leading memory chip
producer; as well as NVIDIA, ASML.   
  
And to have all of these CEOs together to mark this occasion, I think,
is a reflection of the fact that this is about more than just one
groundbreaking, but how we build out this innovation ecosystem for
semiconductors in the United States.  And Secretary Raimondo and I will
be spending some time with those CEOs and the President, as well, to
really talk through where we are on our strategy, what we need to work
together on, and make sure that we are providing clear guidance to the
industry on issues, including on the export control side in addition to
the implementation of the CHIPS bill.  
  
And the last piece is that — you know, and I think the President will be
speaking to this — is that coming to Phoenix is about more than just
semiconductors, because what you’re seeing on the ground in the greater
Phoenix area — Secretary Raimondo was here back in August to announce
that Corning and AT&T are entering a partnership to build fiber optics
here in the Phoenix area to meet demand to build out broadband
deployment in the country.  
  
We’re seeing a major electric vehicle battery manufacturer, KORE Power,
who set up facilities here.  I was in New Mexico in September meeting
with the KORE Power CEO who was talking about this emerging ecosystem in
the southwest of battery manufacturing, et cetera.   
  
So that’s what the President will speak to, is that you — what you’re
seeing, you know, in economic terms, that’s the industrial strategy that
we’ve talked about, that’s investing in the country and laying the
foundation for private sector investment.  But in very practical terms,
this is what happens in a community if you are able to bring
manufacturing, innovation, job opportunities, and economic opportunities
for years to come as well.  
  
So that’s what we’ll be focused on here on the ground in just a little
while.  And with that, should we rock and roll?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  Go ahead, Aamer.  
  
Q    So, I just wanted to ask a little bit about generally a mood
question — a mood question about going into —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  (Inaudible.)  
  
Q    But you have the likely incoming House speaker talking about this
being — such bipartisan bills being corporate welfare.  Is this the
end?  Is this — are you guys essentially on a last hurrah for, sort of,
this kind of bipartisan legislation?  
  
MR. DEESE:  We certainly don’t believe that has to be the case.  I
think, you know, one of the things the President said the day after the
election in his post-election press conference was that he’s prepared,
he’s eager to sit down and work with anybody who has good ideas.  He’s
demonstrated his ability to do that, and he’s going to continue to do
that.  
  
It also will mean Republicans demonstrating that they want to work with
him.  So we’re going to have to — we’re going to — you know, we’re going
to have to see.  
  
You know, I guess I’d say two things.  One is: If you go back to early
in the administration, and you asked most people, you know, “Would it be
possible to actually get multiple historic bipartisan pieces of
legislation through this very narrow Congress in strong bipartisan
fashion?  Could we get infrastructure done after decades of not getting
it done?  Could you do something on chips and semiconductors?” — there
would have been a lot of skepticism, a lot of pessimism.   
  
So, you know, we’ll see.  We understand the reason for skepticism. 
We’re not in any way naïve to how challenging, you know, the
circumstance will be.  But there’s lots of places where — I think
there’s a lot of bipartisan appetite to get things done.  And so,
certainly that’ll be — you know, our (inaudible) will be to try to do
something.

Q    One of the first tests of that bipartisan relationship will be this
government spending bill.  Senator Shelby said the two sides still are
apart.  He suggested there might be a need for some kind of short-term
CR.  What’s the White House view on that?  And do you think you can
reach some kind of agreement before the December 16th deadline?  
  
MR. DEESE:  Yeah, look, I mean, those conversations are ongoing and
fluid.  And, you know, I — even — you know, even as — over the course of
the day today, the President had a productive lunch yesterday with
Chairman Leahy and Ranking Member Shelby, building on the conversation
he had last week with congressional leadership.  And I think his message
to them is — continues to be our message, which is: Keep working at it;
get something done.  Everybody agrees that having a stable, yearlong
funding bill is better for our country, it’s better for our economy,
it’s better for our national security.  
  
So we just want to — you know, we know that those legislative
conversations are happening in very real time, but, you know, we’re just
going to keep encouraging people to try to stay at it and get that
done.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Okay, sure.  I wonder if there’s anything in the President’s
remarks or if he tries to do anything to assuage people’s worries about
divided government, you know, with McCarthy saying, you know,
Republicans shouldn’t work with Democrats and all of that stuff, and if
all this stuff comes to a screeching halt.  
  
MR. DEESE:  Well, look, I think the President’s presence here today with
business leaders from across the country and around the world to
demonstrate commitment to implement a bill that was bipartisan in its
vision, bipartisan in the votes in both the House and the Senate, and
will be bipartisan in the implementation, I think, you know, underscores
what is possible if we actually keep the national interest in mind. 

You know, it was one — I remember back — it was one of the first
meetings that the President did with congressional leadership in late
January of 2021, right after the President came into office, where he
had Senator Cornyn, I believe Senator Young was there as well, others,
all focused on this idea that semiconductors was a place where we could
get things done.   
  
And there’s been a lot of skepticism over the course of 18 months about
whether something could actually get done.  A lot of points where people
said this isn’t going to happen, the politics are too hard and
complicated.   
  
And so, you know, I think the part of the President being here is — a
big part of the President being here is to underscore the importance of
implementation to make sure that we’re hitting our marks to talk
directly with CEOs, to be on the ground and understand what their needs
are, to be clear about what our approach is going to be.  But I think it
also, you know, sends a signal about the potential, the opportunity if
we actually, you know — if we stay focused on, you know, what the
American people want to stay focused on.  
  
Q    Brian, two other priorities, shifting gears.  One of them, the
outbound investment screening mechanism that you guys were, I think, at
some point trying to get out before the end of this year.  Is that
executive order still going to come before the end of the year, or is it
slipping into the new year?  
  
MR. DEESE:  So, I don’t have anything for you on the timing.  We’re
still working on it.  
  
Q    Okay.  And then the other one: The President has said that he’s
going to ask Congress to work with him on a windfall tax for the oil and
gas companies.  With the House obviously now in Republican control and
this likely being blocked, are there any other avenues that you could
address these, you know, “excess profits,” as the President calls it?  
  
MR. DEESE:  Well, it’s a great question.  I’m glad you gave me the
opportunity to answer it.  Because if you go back, what the President
said — and I believe that was — it was Monday or Tuesday, November —
early November; I think it was November 1st or November 2nd.  What the
President said was that the market dynamics we were seeing where you had
high retail prices that Americans were paying at the gas pump, and those
retail prices weren’t coming down as fast as wholesale prices — in an
environment where companies were generating record profits, that was not
an acceptable outcome.   
  
And that he — what — he reiterated what he had been saying for several
months, which was to call on the industry to take action to try to lower
prices, increase inventories, to try to give the American people a break
and increase the energy security in the United States.  And if we didn’t
see progress, then he was going to come back and work with Congress on
appropriate solutions.  That’s what he said.

And if you look, we’re now — just about a month later, the price at the
pump has come down by 40 cents a gallon.  The price of diesel is now on
the cusp — in the next couple of days is likely to fall below $5.00 a
gallon.  That’ll be the first time since March that the price of diesel
is down.  The price of gas at the pump is now lower than it was anytime
in 2022.

And we are starting to see that spread between wholesale prices — the
price that companies pay for the product — and the retail prices — what
we pay at the pump — closing as well.  

So, that’s progress.  And, ultimately, you know, the President’s
ultimate focus is on making sure that the American people are getting a
break.  So, I would note that progress. 

I would also say we continue to have conversations with members of
Congress and the industry to make sure that we’re looking at any and all
appropriate measures to include, for example, in the Northeast, where
we’ve been very concerned about low levels of inventories.  We’ve seen
some progress on that over the course of the next — over the course of
the last couple of weeks.  But we are paying very close attention to
that.  We’ll continue to monitor it.

Q    So, your threat worked and there’s no more need for a windfall tax
to work with Congress on that?

MR. DEESE:  No, I guess what I would say is that the President has been
consistent over the course of the last set of months of what outcome he
is encouraging and what he wants to see, which is that the American
people pay lower prices when the prices come down and that we make sure
that we’ve got enough resilience in our own energy system that we don’t
expose the American people to, you know, price shocks or supply
shortages.

That will continue to be our (inaudible), and we’ve made — you know,
over the course of the last month, we’ve — we’ve made some progress on
this one.

Q    I have a question about layoffs in the tech industry.  I know you
guys consistently say that you don’t see a recession happening now or
potentially not in the next several months.  But a reason that a lot of
these companies are giving is because of the glo- — uncertain global
economic outlook.

Given how you view the economy, would you encourage these companies to
avoid layoffs now and wait to see how things shake out?  Or what’s your
message to workers who are laid off and are wondering about the state of
the economy, given, what you say, how the economy is doing?

MR. DEESE:  So, you know, I — I’d start with — you know, I’d start with
Friday’s employment report.  So, that was for the month of November. 
And we saw continued, sort of, resilience in the labor market — 263,000
jobs created in — in the month. 

And, you know, we’ve been in a historically unique period in the
post-pandemic period.  But it’s worth remi- — you know, just orienting:
If you go back the decade prior to the pandemic hitting, so post-great
financial crisis — in that decade —  over the course of that whole
decade, average monthly job growth was 160,000.

So, you know — now, the 260 \[thousand\] that we saw in November is down
from the 600,000 a month that we were seeing earlier in the year, but
that’s what we expect and anticipate and want to see in the labor market
that is normalizing.

So, you know, we saw continued strong job growth.  If you look across
industries, you know, consi– continue to be solid across the board.

Obviously, individual companies will make their own decisions on that
front.  But we continue to have a historically strong labor market that
is generating job opportunities for people who are looking for jobs, who
are looking to change jobs and take a new opportunity.  With wages
rising and unemployment at, you know, 3.7 percent, it is a historically
good opportunity for workers in the labor market right now.

We’re obviously, you know, very focused on monitoring where we are and
where we think we’re going.  And there are, you know, lots of challenges
that we’re navigating through economically.  But I think that, you know,
the labor market and the resilience of the labor market overall, at a
macro level — and that’s what — we look at, you know, the economy
overall — continues to show a striking degree of resilience.

Q    What does the President want to hear from Tim Cook and the other
executives today?  And what does he want to tell them?

MR. DEESE:  Well, I think that what he wants to tell them is that the
United States, the federal government, is fully committed to doing its
part to invest in the country and to lay the foundation for a thriving
and growing semiconductor industry and, more broadly, a thriving and
growing set of industries connected to, you know, the core areas where
we see economic opportunity in the future to include clean energy.

And that they can operate now with a degree of certainty that would —
you know, so many operating company businesses tell me that what they
need is certainty.  And now, on the back end of the legislative efforts
that we have pushed through, they have long-term certainty that there
will be capital on the table; that there will be a partner for investing
in workforce and the training necessary to build — you know, to get the
talent that they need; and that there are long-term tax incentives for
them to build and grow in the United States.

So, that’s what he’s going to underscores to them.  And also to make
clear that he wants these companies to build and grow in America.

We’re seeing them make those announcement.  But he’s — he wants to — he
wants to see them continue to do that.  We’re going to be a partner to
that, but we’re also going to have high expectations for that. 

Some- — one of you mentioned this sort of — you know, the idea of — this
CHIPS bill is anything — you know, far from corporate welfare.  There
are strong requirements associated with any company that is going to
receive funding under this.  And we’re going to — and we’re going to
stick true to the legislative intent.

I think what he hopes to hear from them is, number one, to understand
their commitment and their plan, but also to hear, you know, as he often
does in these environments, to just hear very candidly from them what
are they concerned about, what do they see on the horizon, what are they
planning for, where do they see the biggest challenges, and where can we
more effectively partner together.

I was just talking to, you know, Senator Kelly, who’s here on the plane,
about how to — how — how, on the ground, the Arizona delegation is
helping unleash extraordinary educational resources that this state has
with ASU and community colleges and otherwise; that when you get states,
localities, universities, community colleges, businesses working
together, oftentimes you can make things happen that people previously
thought were, you know, hard to do or impossible to do.  So, that’s the
other thing he’s going to want to hear from them.

Q    Thank you.

Q    Can I ask about the backlog of oil tankers in Turkey?  I know this
is only a few days into the price cap.  But, one, is there any concerns
about the global oil supply with what we’re seeing with this backup? 
And then, just generally, with the caveat that we’re only a few days in,
what impact do you see the price cap having?

MR. DEESE:  Yeah.  Well, let me start with the latter and then go to the
former.  I mean, you know, our — we don’t ant- — we don’t anticipate
that the price cap is going to have any material impact on global
price.  And, you know, that was by design that, you know, if you dial
back, the price cap was a response to the EU insurance ban and an effort
to try to implement in a way that would reduce revenue for Putin and the
Russian regime without increasing global oil prices.  Obviously, early
days, but if you look at where the market is and also, you know,
futures, it would indicate that the market is digesting the price cap in
that way.

With respect to the issues in Turkey and elsewhere, we’re closely
monitoring situation, but I think it’s too early to make any — you know,
any judgments there.

Q    Can I ask you, on another issue, the — what you know about the
latest on the talks for a new labor contract for West Coast port
workers, and what’s the risk that these talks go similarly to the rail
talks that went back and forth and you ended up figuring it out but with
a lot of drama?

MR. DEESE:  So, it’s an issue that we have been following very closely. 
And for those of you who haven’t been paying super close attention, the
management and labor for the West Coast ports had a deadline of the end
of June to reach an agreement.  They both voluntarily came through that
deadline and said they would continue to operate without a lockout or
without a strike, and continue to stay at the table and negotiate in
good faith.   
  
They have continued to do that.  Secretary Walsh has continued to stay
very close to the parties, encouraged them to continue making progress
and to try to, you know, be helpful where we can.  These are, you know,
collective bargaining negotiations happening at the table as they
appropriately should.   
  
So, you know, that — that continues to be where we are.  I would — I
don’t have a — I don’t have a sort of — a super real-time update on
where things are other than to say that, you know, those parties remain
at the table, focused on trying to resolve their differences rather
than, you know, escalating.  
  
Q    What’s the current outlook on getting an extension on the Child Tax
Credit?  There’s some Senate Democrats who would like to see that, you
know, in this omnibus and are saying, essentially, there shouldn’t be
any of these corporate tax extenders if you’re not going to have a CTC
component to it.  
  
MR. DEESE:  Yeah.  You know, with respect to prospects, we’ll have to
see.  Right?  You know, a lot is up in the air right now, legislatively,
and there’s a lot — it’s like a 17-dimensional — lots of different
things going — you know, going on right now.  
  
On the — on the policy side, we certainly agree that — that if Congress
is going to do anything with respect to extending tax cuts for
companies, they should take action to try to help, you know, working
people and families.  So that — that certainly is where we are.  But
we’re going to have to see, you know, where these conversations unfold
over the course of the next several days.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  
  
Q    Thanks, Brian.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right, thanks, Brian.  Okay.  
  
Q    Thanks very much.  
  
MR. DEESE:  See you, guys.  Enjoy the ride — the long ride.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right, guys.  Aamer, what you got?  
  
Q    Two things.  On Georgia today, any action for the President to try
to get out the vote in the last minutes?   
  
And then secondly, do you have any update on the North American Leaders’
Summit next month and if it is indeed happening next month and the
President —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Say that one more time.  
  
Q    The North American Leaders’ Summit, is it —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, yeah, yeah.  So let me take that one first. 
We’re working — we’re working with — we’re working with the government
of Mexico on that.  I don’t have anything to share, or anything to
preview at this time.  But we’re in conversations, clearly, that — you
know, that relationship is very important to the President.  And — but
once we have something to preview, we certainly will share that.  
  
Q    And on Georgia?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, yes, on Georgia.  What was the question again? 
I’m so sorry.  
  
Q    Just what is the President up to today.  Is there any sort of
last-second, I don’t know, get-out-the-vote efforts?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So a couple — a couple of things.  I want to be really
careful.  I’m covered by the Hatch Act, so can’t really get into any
kind of — you know, lay out any strategy or planning on an election
that’s happening today, as we all know.   
  
But, look, I talked about this a little bit yesterday.  You saw — you’ve
seen what the President has done.  I think some of you traveled with us
to Boston last week where the President did phone banking.  He raised
some money for Senator — Senator Warnock.  He’s always said that he’s
willing to do whatever it takes, whatever Senator Warnock needs for him
to be helpful.   
  
And I’ll take it back a little bit further: If you look at the midterm
elections and you look at the role that the President had — I said this
yesterday a little bit in the briefing room — which is: Look, the
President was able to lay out what the messaging was — right? — what the
messaging was for the Democrats who are — who were — who were running at
the time, which is making that contrast with Republican officials and
laying out what they wanted to do, how they were going to take our
economy into a downturn by wanting to cut Social Security, by wanting to
put Medicare on the chopping block because they didn’t like the
Inflation Reduction Act, a piece of legislation that’s historic, that
was going to — that is going to lower cost for Americans.   
  
And let’s not forget, you know, fighting for our democracy.  We saw
voters and American public speak very clearly and say how important that
was to them.  
  
Their freedom — when you think about Roe and their rights, they were
very clear about how they wanted — they wanted — they wanted us to
continue to fight for that as well.   
  
So, look, again, I’m not going to get into too specifics about today. 
But — but I’ll just leave it there so not to get myself in trouble
here.   
  
Q    Ukraine has been striking deeper into Russia with drone attacks. 
Is that causing any concern in Washington?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So I don’t have any — any assessment on that.  So just
want to be really clear.  I know — I know the reports are out there.   
  
I want to — I want to just add one more piece to that: Look, I don’t
want to speculate about whether Ukraine is responsible for these
attacks.  But to be clear, there’s only one country — right? — and we —
you’ve heard us say this at the podium, you’ve heard us — the President
say this — who is — who’s responsible for this conflict, and that’s
Russia.   
  
And they continue to launch a barrage of attacks against Ukraine,
including against electric — electric grid — just yesterday, you heard
me talk about that in the podi- — at the podium as well — and that are
designed to increase human suffering.   
  
But one thing that we have seen from the Ukrainian people is that they
are — they are a brave people.  We stand with them as they continue to
fight for their freedom and as they continue to fight for their
sovereignty.  
  
Q    Can you talk about North Carolina, both the outages and what the
federal government is doing, and what — where the investigation into
whether this is domestic terrorism lies?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So I have a few — a few things to say about that.  I
know you guys asked me yesterday.  
  
So we condemn this apparent attack on critical infrastructure.  Federal
law enforcement continues to support the investigation, and we will
continue to monitor the situation as that investigation plays out.  
  
The Department of Energy is working with utilities in the region to
ensure they have everything they need to restore power as quickly and
safely as possible.   
  
As I’ve said, President Biden has made critical infrastructure security
and resilience to all hazards, both natural and manmade, a priority
since day one of his administration.  While we still have a long way to
go, the Biden-Harris administration is already following through on its
promise to deliver results through the initiatives like the Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law and the infla- — Inflation Reduction Act.  
  
And to protect against and limit the impacts of incidents like this,
we’ve worked closely with the private sector to strengthen resilience
against the full spectrum of potential threats, including through
utilizing new technologies and improving how government
<s>communities</s> \[communicates\] and shares that information with the
private sector, which owns the majority of our nation’s critical
infrastructure, as you all know.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    I wonder who was responsible.  Is there any idea?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I would refer you to the Department of Justice on that
and also to Department of Energy on any specifics.  
  
But what I can tell you is we condemn this apparent attack.  
  
Q    Arizona certified its election results this week.  Should we expect
the President to talk about the election in Arizona and specifically
urge the statewide Republicans to concede the race?  
  
And then secondly, I noticed that Senator Sinema was not on the list of
attendees.  Was she invited by the White House?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, we always invite — as you know, you guys have been
on a couple of trips with us.  When we go to a state, the President is
always happy to give those congressional members in that state a ride on
Air Force One to the state.  And, clearly, if you think about the CHIPS
and Science Act, it was a bipartisan piece of legislation.  It got a lot
of support from Democrats.  
  
I can’t speak to Senator Sinema’s schedule.  As you know, the Senate is
in session, so I would have to refer you to her office as to her
schedule for today.  
  
But on your question — so, look, the President, as you know, he feels
like it’s his duty to sound the alarm about continuing threats to our
democracy, attacks on the integrity of elections, and attempts by
politicians to choose their voters, and when it should always be the
other way around.  
  
So he spoke about the need to speak out against the dangerous conspiracy
theories, misinformation, and violent rhetoric — the need for all of us,
as “We the People,” to say in — to say in one voice that this is not a —
this is not normal.  This is extreme.  It’s not who we are.   
  
He was right to do that.  And the American people responded, as I said
earlier in this gaggle.  
  
Look, and it’s a testament to our mainstream values as a country that
the midterms affirmed the strength of our democracy.  Look, people spoke
out.  We saw this in the last midterm.  They were very clear that they
wanted — American people across the country wanted to make sure that our
democracy was protected and that we continue to fight for our
democracy.   And so we need to listen to that and make that very
clear.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    I’m sorry if I making you repeat yourself because I couldn’t hear
you.  I just wondered two questions.  What’s the President’s message to
Georgia voters?  Is he going to be talking about that at all today?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So I want to be really careful.  There’s — people are
voting right now.  And I am protected by the Hatch Act, so I’m not going
to really say more about that specifically.  
  
What I can point to, as I’ve been doing, is pointing to the midterms and
what the American people have been very clear about: protecting our
democracy; making sure we continue to deliver for the American people —
that’s something that Democrat officials, especially in Congress, has
been doing.  When you think about the Bipartisan Infrastructure, you
think about the Inflation Reduction Act, you think about when we walked
in — the President walked into the administration, he met the moment
with the American Rescue Plan, something that Republicans did not vote
for, and it helped our economy get back on its feet and it helped to
make sure that we got shots in arms.   
  
And that’s why you’re seeing the data points that we are seeing the last
couple of months with GDP, and, you know, inflation moderating and
seeing jobs — historic job growth.  And so all of those things are
important.  
  
And so what I can say is — what our message has been to the American
people — what I can say is, what the work that the President has done to
the American people and just lean into, you know, again, what we talked
about during the midterms and that contrast about what Republican
officials are trying to do.  They want to stop all of the gains that we
have been making.  
  
So I’m not going to get into, again, specifics into an election that’s
currently happening.  I’m covered by the Hatch Act.   
  
But I can lay out exactly, you know, the message that the President gave
just a couple of weeks ago, in the ending of the midterms — in the
midterms — as we were going into the midterms election.  
  
Q    And my other question was just on — I know the President’s not
going to talk about the border.  He’s not going to visit the border. 
But is the administration willing to extend Title 42 or are you going to
spend millions on border security so that DREAMers can have a pathway to
citizenship?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, what — did you ask me about Title 42?  I’m
sorry.  
  
Q    Yes.  It was, would you consider extending Title 42?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I’m not going to get into Title 42.  That’s
something that the Department of Justice is working through.  I know
I’ve been asked if they were going to appeal. That’s a — that’s in
litigation, so I’m not going to respond to that.  
  
Look, I’ll say this: When it comes to immigration reform, on the first
day of his administration, the President — one of — the piece — first
pieces of thing — one of the first things he did was put forth a
comprehensive immigration reform, which included DACA, which included
making sure we protect the border.  And he was very clear this was a
priority for him.   
  
And he was able to secure record funding for the Department of Homeland
Security to make sure that we had 23,000 extra agents, to make sure that
we stopped those smugglers that were taking advantage of migrants who
are — who were trying to, you know, looking for a better life, trying to
come into the country.  And he’s been very clear that he wants to work
on this.   
  
I just talked about the CHIPS and Science Act, how that was done in a
bipartisan way.  You know, why can’t Republicans work with us in a
bipartisan way to get immigration reform done?   
  
But the way — what we’ve been seeing from them is political stunts. 
That’s what they do, you know?  They — they do political stunts, do not
come up with solutions, and we have.  We have come up with solutions. 
We understand that there’s more work to do, and we’re continuing to do
that work.  
  
Q    Karine, on Saudi, the President said that he wants to review the
U.S. relationship with Saudi Arabia.  Now that Congress is back, can you
give us an update on these talks and whether you’re still interested in
potentially halting arms sales or looking at the NOPEC legislation?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have specifics to lay out on where we are on
the conversation about our Saudi relationship.   
  
Look, as you know, it’s been an 80-year relationship that we have had
with Saudi Arabia.  This is — you know, it’s been done in a bipartisan
way.  And so, look, I don’t have anything to share on conversations
that’s been had or what’s the path forward.  As soon as we have that,
we’ll be sure to share.  
  
Q    Can I follow up on that?  President Xi says that he’s going to
Saudi Arabia tomorrow.  As the — as President Biden reassesses the
relationship, how much is he factoring in China’s relationship with
Saudi Arabia?  And how concerned to see that by potentially reducing the
American involvement in Saudi Arabia that China could see an opening and
take advantage?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, just a couple things on that.  So, we don’t
tell our partner — our partners to choose sides.  That’s not something
that we do.  You’ve heard us say that before.  Each country has its own
bilateral relationships.  And so, we are focused on strengthening our
own partnerships in the Middle East and advancing our economic and
national security.  And so, that is what we — we are — you’re going to
see us continue to do.

I’m just not going to speak specifically about that particular bilateral
meeting.  Again, it is — we do not comment on that.  And it’s not up to
us on what they — what they see their relationships needs to be.

Q    And one more follow-up on China.  Do you think, as they’re
struggling, obviously, with their COVID-zero and winding that down, is
it time for them to ask for Western vaccines to finally beat that virus?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, you know — you know, we’re not going to
speak to a country’s policy.  We have been, as you know, the largest
provider of COVID — of COVID vaccines in the country.  And so, we are
always willing to assist and help. 

Look, the President is very focused on — you know, on his plan that he’s
had for the past two years and making sure that people get vaccinated.

One of the — that’s one of the reasons, again, that we’ve seen the
economy get back on its feet, is because when the President walked in,
he had a comprehensive vaccination plan, and it made a difference.  And
he had to kind of clean up what the last administration did. 

They didn’t have a plan.  They didn’t have a strategic, comprehensive
plan at all, and the President did.  And so now we’re seeing more than
two- — we’ve seen more than 200 million people who have gotten — who
have gotten fully vaccinated.

And the President’s message right now to the American people is to go
get your new vaccine.  It is important.  It is imperative.  As folks
think about the holidays and visiting families and visiting their
grandparents, it’s important to get that new vaccine so that we can — we
can continue to be in a place where we’re moving forward and — as we
deal with COVID.

Q    And it’s still accurate that the Chinese haven’t asked you guys for
any vaccines?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, again, I — you know, I don’t have anything to
share about any — any conversations that we’ve had on this.  But as I
said, we are the largest provider of COVID — COVID vaccines of — than
any other country.  And so we have been committed to doing that.

All right.

Q    Can I ask one more?  Governor Sununu has said that Biden’s
recommendation that South Carolina get the first primary, that it’s
government payback politics.  I wonder if the White House any — has any
comments on that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Governor payback politics?  Can you say —

Q    “Government payback politics,” I think was the quote.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  What does that mean?  I don’t know what that means. 
(Laughs.)

Q    (Inaudible) said earlier today.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  Look —

Q    And there’s another criticism, as well.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, okay.  What’s the other criticism?

Q    Basically, along the same thing, maybe not as scathing a quote. 
But, yeah.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay, I don’t know what he means by governor —
“government payback.”

Q    So, like, rewarding South Carolina for his first victory there —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, okay.

Q    — that term — yeah.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  So, I could say: No, that is not what that is. 
There were — there was — it had nothing to do with the primary results. 
And I can definitively say that. 

Look, I think when it comes to — I know there’s been — when it comes to
it more broadly, as — as we’re hearing from Republican governors and
others, their complaints, you know, it is — it is — it is surprising to
us that — that any governor would want to deny their constituents an
opportunity to — an opportunity to have a greater voice in the process. 
And that’s what — that’s what should be looked at. 

This is an opportunity to have a greater — a greater place in the
process.  And I’ll just leave it there. 

I’ll add one more thing.  You know, the President has always been clear
— and this is a political — I’m going to be very careful — it’s a
political process — right? — as we talk about the 2024 calendar.

But more broadly, the President has been very clear on making sure that
— you know, that we meet what the country looks like — right? — making
sure that, even in his administration, it looks like the country — the
diversity of the country.  And so, that’s the President’s commitment,
and that’s what you’ll conse- — continue to see him do.

All right.

Q    Should we expect him to stop by the Second Gentleman’s event
tomorrow on antisemitism?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, I was asked about that yesterday.  I don’t have
anything to preview or to share.  Certainly, I’ll look into that.  But
that’s a very good question.  I just haven’t looked into it at this
time.

Q    Hey, one other thing.  Ron Klain was telling a Wall Street Journal
forum that the President is going to make up his mind after the holidays
about running for reelection and have a decision, I guess, to announce
early in the year.  Is that — is that how you understand it?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, Ron echoed what — what you heard — what you heard
the President say, including shortly after he had the most successful
first — first midterm of any Democratic president in 40 years: that he
intends to run — you’ve heard me say that — that the President intends
to run and is going to be talking with his family about that and will
likely decide early — early next year.

I don’t have anything else to preview at this time.  But what Ron said
was certainly in line with what the President has said most recently
about 2024.

Q    Okay.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.

Q    (Inaudible) speak to — there’s been some reports that Russia is
running out of attack drones once again.  Is that the U.S. assessment?  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I don’t have anything to share on that
specifically.  I would just refer you to Department of Defense.  Don’t
have anything on that.

Q    Just one more.  The President was asked, as he was leaving the
White House, if he was going to go to the border.  He said he had —
“there are more important things going on.”  What — can you — can you
clarify those remarks?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, I’m happy to —

Q    Were — was he being dismissive (inaudible)?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, look, happy to.  Oh, absolutely not.  I mean,
I just laid out a couple moments ago, like, when the President first
walked into the administration, the first thing he did was put forth a
comprehensive immigration reform legislation.  So that showed his
commitment to dealing with that issue.  
  
Look, the President was clear that his top priority is investing in the
American economy and in American communities. And he’s focused on
outcompeting China and bringing back American jobs from overseas. 
That’s what you’re going to see today.   
  
And so if anyone believes that the President shouldn’t do — shouldn’t
make that his top priority, they should say that out loud, right?   
  
I mean, you’re going to see for yourselves.  When we land in Phoenix,
Arizona, we’re going to — the President is going to lay out why this
trip to Arizona is so important, why CHIPS and Science Act is so
important and what it’s going to do for the American people and the
people in Arizona — creating good-paying jobs.   
  
Since the Amer- — since the President has been in office, more than
700,000 manufacturing jobs have been created here alone.   
  
So just to step back, just to talk a little bit about the — what the
President has done at the border: The President is — has taken action to
secure our border and build a fair, orderly, and humane immigration
system.  He’s secured more funding than all of his predecessors to
support the men and women of the Department of Homeland Security.  He’s
put forth a comprehensive, as I just mentioned, immigration reform
proposal.   
  
He’s brought 20 world leaders — as some of you traveled with us to L.A.
— together to jointly manage the migration challenge impacting the
entire Western Hemisphere.  That — that came out of that trip that — the
summit that he had in L.A. not too long ago.  He focused on real
solutions, not — again, not political stunts.   
  
And if border security is such a top priority for Republicans officials,
voting against record funding for the Department of Homeland Security is
at odd — is an odd way to show that.  And that’s what we have been
trying to lay out, right?   
  
I mean, you have Republican officials who continuingly \[sic\] —
continuously do political stunt but do not put forward a solution.   
  
And so we’re solution-oriented.  We want to come to a place where we
fine — find answers, and they’re not doing that.  
  
All right, thanks, everybody.  
  
Q    Thank you, Karine.   
  
Q    Karine, can I — Karine, can I ask you one more thing?  Can I ask
you one more — this was the last day on the week ahead this week. 
What’s the President up to the rest of the week?  We didn’t have — we
didn’t have any more events.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I won’t have — we will have a layout of what the
President is going to be doing the next couple of days, and we’ll
certainly — we’ll share that with all of you.  Don’t have anything to
share at this time.  But, of course, we will share a — share out what
his events and what he’s going to be doing the next three days.  What’s
today?  Tuesday.  The next three days.  
  
All right.  
  
Q    Thank you.  
  
Q    Can I make one more request, Karine?  Is it possible, if the
results are known tonight, that the President might be willing to come
talk to us about his reactions?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Don’t have anything right now.  We’re — as you know,
he’s paying attention and watching like all of you.  And if anything
changes about speaking with you all on the record, we’ll certainly share
that as well.   
  
Q    You’d invite him to talk to us tonight?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — I hear you, Aamer.  I hear you.   
  
Q    Thank you.  
  
1:17 P.M. EST
