---
date: '2022-12-08'
modified_time: 2022-12-08 17:58:51-05:00
published_time: 2022-12-08 17:46:14-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2022/12/08/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-december-8-2022/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre, December 8,\_2022"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

12:50 P.M. EST

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Good afternoon, everybody.

Q Good afternoon.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: President Biden keeps his promises. And today he
fulfilled a deeply important promise to bring Brittney Griner home to a
family that loves her, a team that misses her, and a country that has
marveled at her strength and courage.

Brittney’s safe return home is the product of months and months of
painstaking negotiations that were the culmination of extraordinary
efforts across the U.S. government. Officials from the White House, the
State Department, and across the administration worked tirelessly and
relentlessly to see this moment through.

As the Secretary of State said publicly in July, we have been engaging
in intense negotiations with Russia, pursuing many different avenues
over the course of the last six months to secure Brittney’s release. And
we know Brittney fought tirelessly too.

Throughout her ordeal, we saw Brittney — a two-time Olympic Gold
medalist for Team USA — demonstrate strength, courage, and dignity. As
the President said this morning, she represents the best of America.

I had the opportunity to speak to Cherelle Griner a couple of hours ago,
who is looking forward to seeing Brittney as soon as she returns home
later today.

Cherelle, who herself has handled Brittney’s detention with incredible
strength, asked me to communicate once again her sincere gratitude to
everyone in the administration and in their broader — and in their own
broader support network, who made this day possible. She also wanted to
reinforce the commitment she and Brittney have made to stand up and
speak out for other Americans wrongfully detained abroad.

While we’re celebrating Brittney’s return home today, we have also
continued to be in touch with the Whelan family for whom this news
brings mixed emotions.

In recent weeks, it became clear that while Russians were willing to
reach an agreement to secure Brittney’s release, they continue to treat
Paul Whelan differently, given the nature of the totali- — totally
illegitimate charges they have levied against Paul. Unfortunately, the
choice became to either bring Brittney home or no one.

As the President said this morning, he will — he will never stop working
to secure Paul’s release and return home. And he will not give up.  
On a personal note, Brittney is more than an athlete, more than an
Olympi- — Olympian. She is an important role model and inspiration to
millions of Americans, particularly the LGBTQI+ Americans and women of
color. She should never have been detained by Russia. And we are — I am
— deeply proud of the work that the President has done, this
administration has done to get her home.  
With that, Seung Min.

Q So, a couple of questions on Brittney Griner. In his post-Election Day
press conference, the President said, quote, “My hope is that now that
the election is over, that Mr. Putin will be able to discuss with us and
be more willing to talk more seriously about a prisoner exchange.” So
can you discuss how precisely the end of — how the talks changed after
the midterms? Did Russia seem more — did their posture change? Were they
kind of cognizant that the campaign season was over?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: If you could bear with me for a second, I’m going to
give you all a timeline that will answer probably many of your questions
about what happened and when things changed.

So as you all know, over the past year, we have been pursuing many
different avenues, as I just stated at the top, to secure Brittney’s
release, as — and I mentioned what the Secretary said in July. But since
that time, U.S. officials continued to press Russia publicly and
privately to engage in good-faith negotiations pursuing a variety of
different options.

In recent weeks, though, it became clear that while the Russians were
willing to reach an agreement to secure Brittney’s release, they
continue to treat Paul differently, as I just stated, with their totally
illegitimate charge that they levied against Paul.

In this pa- — in this last week, the President approved moving forward
with releasing Viktor Bout in exchange for bringing home Brittney
Griner.

Over the last 48 hours, Brittney was moved from the penal colony where
she was held in Russia, to Moscow, and then flown to the UAE.

Bout conditional grant of clemency was not complete — completed until
today, when U.S. officials in the UAE verified Brittney was there too
and ready to return to the U.S.

Yesterday, U.S. officials met with Paul Whelan’s family to inform them
of the news. And I expect, as the President said earlier today, this
President will speak with them later or when they are ready to have that
conversation, understanding — and the President said this as well — how
difficult of a moment this is for the Whelan family.

And this morning, just to clear up some of the questions that you all
have had, Cherelle had been invited to the White House for a meeting
with the National Security Advisor, Jake Sullivan.

When she arrived, she was welcomed into the Oval Office by President
Biden, who personally delivered the news that Brittney would be
returning home today.

The President was joined in the Oval Office by Vice President Harris,
National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan, and also Secretary of State
Blinken.

Once Brittney lands in the United States, she will be offered
appropriate care and support from the U.S. government, including medical
screenings as well.

Look, I’m not going to get into specifics as to your question about what
was occurring to change the minds of Russia as it relates to the
midterms or af- — doing this after the midterms. I’m not in the business
of speculating how Mr. Putin thinks.

What we want to make sure that is very clear: The President made a
promise, and he kept his promise — and not just to Brittney Griner; he’s
keeping his promise — he’s going to do everything — his team is going to
do everything that they can to secure Paul’s return as well, and other
Americans that are — that are wrongfully detained abroad.

And so we have seen this happen — right? — just across the President’s
administration. And we’ve brought home — the President has been able to
secure about a dozen wrongfully detained or hostage individuals —
Americans — bringing them home. We know — we saw the situation with
Trevor Reed just this past April.

So this is a commitment that the President has, that his administration
has, and we will continue.

Q And can you discuss specifically what Russia wanted beyond Victor Bout
and what the — that the U.S. would not do? And what is it that the U.S.
was willing to offer in addition to Viktor Bout?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So here’s the thing: The Russians were not willing to
negotiate in good faith for the release of Paul Whelan at this time. And
in order to increase the chances for success, we’re not going to
certainly discuss more about the negotiations for his release publicly.
What — we are committed to securing Paul’s release, but we’re just not
going to get into specifics. But like I said, they were not operating in
good faith.

Q And one more question. I mean, obviously we’re all very happy to hear
the news that she’s coming home. But I’m wondering if the
administration’s concern about whether there’s any precedent set here
about what the U.S. government is willing to trade in exchange to
release Americans imprisoned abroad.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, look, this was not a decision that the President
made lightly, but he believed it was the right thing to do to secure
Brittney’s release.

And — and so, you know, this is a commitment that he had, a promise that
he made. And where we were left with is either we bring Brittney home or
no one at all. And so the — you know, had a — one of my colleagues in
the National Security Council said today he believed that there was a
moral obligation here to get her home. Does this not mean that this
President will stop with Brittney? He’s going to continue to make sure
that we secure Paul Whelan’s return, as well, and as well as other
Americans who are wrongfully detained abroad.

Go ahead.

Q Thanks, Karine. Was there a risk assessment to determine how dangerous
Bout may be now that he’s been released back into the world? And what is
the result, if there was one? How should people be thinking about the
fact that this man is free?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, look, again, this was not a decision that the
President made lightly. I just want to be very clear on that. We will
always stay vigilant about our national security. That’s something that
the promise — the President will always do, and we will act swiftly to
protect it. That — that was true yesterday. That is true today. And that
will be true after Mr. Bout’s release.

So that is a commitment that the President has to the American people.
But again, he believed this was the right thing to do in bringing
Brittney home.

Q But in making that decision, surely, he heard from officials, the
intelligence community, about how dangerous Bout is or is not. So I’m
just asking —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: No, I hear the question.

Q — the degree of the assessment.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I hear your question. I’m not going to get into
specifics about what the President was told by the intelligence
community. That is not something that we do from here, as you know, on
any specifics.

What I can say is that the President will continue to be vigilant about
our national security, and — and he will remain — we will remain to act
swiftly to protect it. Again, this is not a decision that he made
lightly.

Q And with regard to Whelan, David Whelan said in his statement that —
I’m guessing you’ve seen by now — that Paul “worked so hard to survive”
for nearly four years. And he questioned, “How do you continue to
survive, day after day, when you know that your government has failed
twice?” Essentially painting a pretty hopeless picture for his brother.
So are there any concerns that Paul Whelan will hurt himself? And are
there any measures that the U.S. can take to ensure his wellbeing?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, look, all very good questions. And the President
said this morning he understands how difficult a moment this is for the
Whelan family. It is not — certainly not lost on us. And as we have
said, we’ve been speaking with the Whelan family, including today, and
we’re not going to certainly betray any of that confidential
conversation. You clearly have heard from the family directly in the
statement.

But, look, what we are going to continue to do is we are going to
continue to work to secure Paul’s — Paul’s return, Paul’s release. You
know, I think you can understand why we won’t go into details.

But, of course — of course, we’re always concerned about the safety —
the safety and the health of any American that is being held —
wrongfully detained and held hostage. And I’m not going to get into
specifics on any, you know, future conversations that we might have with
Paul and how that’s going to — our interaction with him is going to look
like.

One thing that I can say is our consular office — officers in Moscow
were able to make contact with Paul on December 2nd. And as we — as we
know from that time, he was — he was feeling well. He was in good
health.

Q And just one more. And just to clarify, on December 2nd, he wasn’t
aware that this was happening? It wasn’t until today?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah, he was — we have made Paul Whelan aware of — of
this — of the exchange that happened today. He’s aware of it.

Q Okay. And one more on Brittney Griner. I understand how the deal went
down and what the Russians were willing to give. But how do you dispel
the public perception that if you are a celebrity or a professional
athlete, you get preferential treatment in a situation like this?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Look, I want to be very clear here. And I think we —
you know, we tried to lay this out in a clear way as well — the
President did and my colleagues, as you’ve heard from them, from the
NSC: This was not a choice for us on — of which American to bring home.
That was not the choice. It was a choice between bringing home one
American or bringing home none. And we brought one home today, and that
is important to note. And just like we were able to bring home Trevor
Reed back in April.

And through every step of this process, we have sought to bring Paul
Whelan home. And that will not change. That will continue to be our
commitment.

Again, regrettably, due to nature of the total — totally illegitimate
charges they levied against Paul, the Russians are treating this
situation differently than Brittney — Brittney’s situation, and we have
been unable to secure his release.

We made every possible offer available to us to secure Paul’s release,
but there was no way to bring Paul home right now. We would have
preferred, of course — of course, we’d have preferred to see them both
released. That’s what we’ve been calling on. That’s what you’ve been
hearing from me and the President these past — this past year. But we
did not want to lose the opportunity before us to secure the release of
one of them. And so that was the choice: one or none, and not “which
one.” It was either none or one.

And so, our efforts to bring Paul home will continue. It will not stop.
And, you know, the U.S. government continues to encourage the Russian
government through every — every contact with them, through every
channels to secure his release. And we want them to do it in good faith.

Go ahead.

Q I want to get your reaction to Paul Whelan’s own words in response to
this. He told one of our colleagues that he doesn’t understand why he’s
still sitting there, that he’s greatly disappointed that more has not
been done to secure his release. So can you respond directly to him? Can
you assure him that you are, in fact, now doing everything you can?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Look, I would refer — refer you to the words of the
President himself, right? This is something that it we are committed to
doing.

And again, I’ll repeat this because the President said this, and this is
just repeating the President as well: is, like, he understands how
difficult a time this is for the family — Paul’s family. He understands
that. There are mixed emotions today for them.

They also said that they were proud to see, you know, Brittney come home
today. And the President is going to do everything that he can, as we
have seen him do many times across this — his — across the time, his
tenure in the administration, to bring Paul home. And so, this is a
commitment that the President is giving to the family and to Americans.

Q And does the President have any plans to speak with Whelan’s family or
to try and speak with Paul Whelan himself?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, as he said himself, he’s looking to — he’s looking
forward to speaking to the Whelan family today or when they are ready to
have that conversation. He is open and ready to communicate with them.

Q And does the President — should we have any plans or any expectation
for him to meet with Brittney Griner?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I don’t have anything to preview at this time. Our —
our efforts right now, our focus is to get her home safely and — and to
get her back to her family, to her team, to her loved ones, and give her
all the necessary tools that she will need to reengage, to come back to
the U.S. in her — in the way that she chooses, right?

Q Thank you, Karine. A quick question on Saudi Arabia’s involvement in
securing Griner’s release. How do you view the Crown Prince’s
involvement here? Do you view this as an act of good faith? And how do
you think this will help them as the U.S. reevaluates its alliance with
Saudi?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, as I’ve said before, this negotiation was between
the U.S. government and Russia, and that’s how we were able to secure
Brittney’s — Brittney’s release. And I won’t have — I don’t have
anything further to share on that.

Q So there was — there were U.S. officials on the background call this
morning thanking the Emiratis, for example, but there was no explicit
mention of MBS and the role he played. I mean, is the administration
still extending their gratitude or a thank you to —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Again, the only countries that negotiated this deal
were the United States and Russia, and there was no mediation involved.
We are grateful for the UAE — as the President mentioned, as I am
mentioning now — for facilitating the use of their territory for the
exchange to take place.

We are also grateful to other countries, including Saudi Arabia, that
released \[sic\] the issue of our wrongfully detained Americans with
Russian government — that raised that issue.

But, again, I don’t have anything more to say. But when it comes to her
release, it was between the U.S. government and Russia.

Q And a quick one on the Whelan family saying that the United States
needs to be more aggressive in arresting Russian criminals so there is
more leverage during negotiations. One of the options is for the U.S. to
arrest more Russians that, you know, the government is sanctioning
already. Is that sort of a feasible path being floated? Is that — you
know, how would you respond to that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I don’t have anything more to share or anything to add
or preview on your question.

Look, as you know, the President recently put forward — the Biden
administration expanded their toolkit for the U.S. government can use to
make sure that, as we think about hostages that are wrongfully detained,
Americans that are being held, to deal with that issue, including the
ability to impose serious costs and consequences, such as sanctions and
visa bans on governments and non-state actors who are involved in
hostage taking and wrongfully — and wrongfully detentions.

So, the State Department has also introduced a new risk indicator to
their travel advisories to inform U.S. citizens about the risk of
wrongful detention by a foreign government in six countries that have
regularly engaged in this practice.

So, clearly, we have expanded our toolkit. We did that most recently.
And — and so that is showing how important this issue of Americans being
wrongfully detained abroad and held hostage is important to the
President and making sure that we bring them home, but also stop — stop
those actions that we’re seeing from those countries.

Go ahead.

Q Karine, just back to what Paul Whelan told my colleague earlier. He
said, “I don’t understand why I am still sitting here.” When the senior
officials spoke with Mr. Whelan earlier today, what was the explanation
that was given to him on why he is still in a Russian penal colony?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I mean, I laid it out. He’s — Paul Whelan is being
treated differently and — because of a totally illegitimate charges that
have been levied against him by the Russians. And, you know, the
Russians were not willing to negotiate in good faith for the release of
— of Paul Whelan at this time. And that is the reality. That is what
we’ve been sharing with all of you. But the President, again, is
committed — committed to securing Paul’s return.

I’m not going to get into details of negotiations of what that will look
like, just because, as you could imagine — you all understand — because
of security reasons here. But, again, this is — this is something that
we have worked for, worked on for the past several months — getting them
both home. That is something that the President wanted to do. But this
is what the Russians are doing. And so now we’re going to continue to
have those conversations and finding a way to bring him home.

Q And can you clarify: When the Saudis say that the Crown Prince, MBS,
was involved in mediation efforts to secure Griner’s release, is that
true?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Look, I don’t have anything else to share beyond of
what I’ve said. I’ll refer you — again, let them speak for themselves.
But I’m — I’m not going to comment beyond what I just laid out of — of
what we saw — who we’re thankful to and what we saw the — the
involvement.

Again — but it was — the deal was negotiated. The only countries that
actually negotiated this deal was the United States and Russia.

Q I guess, do you make anything of the fact that they are saying that
MBS was involved?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I’m just not — I’m just not going to say beyond — more
be- — outside of what I’ve just laid out.

Q Okay. Just a final one. Just revisiting Seung Min’s question on just
the precedent that this might possibly set, I guess, what would the
President’s message be to any foreign actor or rogue country that has
watched all of this unfold and might be thinking, “Okay, so this was
possible in this situation, so this is something that we might be able
to pull off too”?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Look, you know, Russia and — sadly, Russia and other
countries have already been willing to wrongfully detain U.S. citizens.
This is something that has been occurring for some time, as you know. So
we have been focused on how we can bring them home, and we make no
apologies for that. And that’s what you have seen us do today, and
that’s what you’ve seen us do with Trevor Reed and others.

And so, look, we’re going to continue to put — to put our efforts
forward. We have, again, expanded our toolkit to make sure we do
everything that we can to bring them home. But this is something that
has been happening for some time now.

Q But is there a concern of this kind of precedent being set?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Look, what I can say — again, this is — this is
something that we have seen not just Russia and other countries continue
to do. This is something that they’ve been willing to do, which is
wrongfully detained U.S. Americans.

We are going to do everything that we can to bring them home. We’re not
going to apologize about it. We are going to keep our commitment to
bring American citizens — again, who are being wrongfully detained, who
are being held hostage — safe — back home safely to their families,
where they should be.

Go ahead.

Q Thanks. Does the White House have any indication that this negotiation
is foundational and could lead to greater communication with Russia up
to and including about Ukraine?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, look, these — this — this release culminated after
an extraordinary amount of hard work by many people just across the U.S.
government, as I just laid out early on, and our national security team,
obviously. It was about securing Brittney’s — Brittney’s release, pure
and simple. That’s what this — this is — was about. That’s what this —
this particular action was about.

As we stated numerous — on numerous occasion, the U.S. government
engaged with Russian government through every available channel to bring
Griner and Paul Whelan home.

As it relates to — if you’re asking me about what we’re seeing in
Ukraine, the invasion in Ukraine by Russia, it’s not going to change our
commitment to the Ukrainian people to make sure that they are able to
fight against the — their aggressive — the aggression that they are
dealing with, with Russia, to fight for their freedom, to fight for
their democracy. That does not change.

But this — I would look at this particular issue specifically to what we
were trying to do: bringing home and — Americans back home safely.

Q And one more. The President indicated that he had talked to Brittney
Griner. Can you give us any more details about — about that
conversation, how long it was, what was talked about? And has he talked
to her again, since this morning?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I don’t have a new call, a conversation to read out to
you at this time. We have — basically has shared that, this morning, in
the Oval Office, as I kind of gave a little bit of a timeline moments
ago, when the President invited Cherelle Griner into the Oval Office to
let her know what was occurring today — that Brittney was coming home —
they called — I think there’s a photo out there that we tweeted — they
called Brittney together, along with the Vice President and Secretary
Blinken. And — and we have shared with all of you that she was in good
spirits.

I don’t have anything further to share. But, yes, there was a
conversation — I think we shared that earlier this morning — that he had
with Brittney Griner when she was on her way here, on the plane, when
she was able to have communications to have that conversation with her
wife, the President, the Vice President, and Secretary Blinken.

Go ahead.

Q Thanks. Just building on Cleve’s first question, it was a channel that
works — a channel of communication with the Russian government that was
successful in reaching this agreement. Is the admini- — does the
administration not think that that is an opportunity to make progress in
other areas, whether it’s Ukraine, whether it’s arms? There are so many
issues. Is that not an opportunity there though?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Look, totally understand the question about what else
can we po- — what other avenues can we potentially go through after this
— after this — after securing Brittney’s coming — return home.

But we just want to be — again, this was — we want to be really clear:
This was about securing Brittney’s release home, yes. But it was about
this particular issue, pure and simple. That’s what this was about.

I don’t want to get ahead of any potential conversation about Ukraine.
Don’t want to get ahead of any conversation about arms deal. I know
there’s a new treaty out there. I know you all have questions about
that. But this was about what the President’s commitment is and has
been, what the administration’s work has been, which is bringing home
American citizens who are wrongfully detained. And that has been our
focus with Brittney this past year.

Q On another one: You know — obviously we’re talking about Griner. You
also talk about efforts to reach to Paul Whelan’s family, as well as
Paul Whelan himself. I just wanted to ask: Have there been any similar
efforts regarding American Marc Fogel, who is also in Russia, also
arrested on marijuana charges? How is his case different? Or how does
the — why is the actions for Marc Fogel different than these?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, look, we take seriously our responsibility to
assist U.S. citizens abroad and are monitoring the situation. Any
specifics on Marc Fogel or any others, I would — I would refer you to
the State Department for additional information on those specific cases.

There are — every case is different. Every case — there are different
ways that I can talk about them, so I don’t want to get ahead of that.
So I would refer you to the State Department.

Q But you do see a difference between Griner’s case and Fogel’s case?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: No, that’s not what I’m saying. I’m saying that
sometimes we’re not able to talk about that particular individual, and
so I don’t want to get ahead of that. There are reasons for that — for
their own security, for their own privacy. So I would refer you to the
State Department.

Go ahead, Steven.

Q Thanks, Karine. The President said he expected that Brittney Griner
will be back in the U.S. in about 24 hours. Is it your expectation that
she’ll return home to Texas? Or —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: For privacy reasons and security reasons, I’m not going
to get ahead of or share any information on where — where she will be or
where she will be landing.

What I can say is she will be reunited with her family. I don’t want to
get, again, into details about timing or location, just to respect her
family’s wishes and for privacy, given — giving them the space and time
that is needed. At this moment, we would ask — you know, we ask all of
you to respect their privacy as well.

And — but I’ll share this: Typically upon arrival, people are offered a
wide range of additional support, including a full medical checkup and a
mental checkup, and — and anything that they potentially can need to
move forward.

Q I want to ask you — as you know, there’s some criticism of the release
of Victor Bout. And I know you said the President doesn’t take it
lightly; he weighed it very carefully. But we are talking about a man
who, when he was sentenced to 25 years, Preet Bharara — who at the time
was the top federal prosecutor in New York — said that this was someone
who had conspired to sell AK-47s that he knew would have been used to
kill Americans — American drug agents. Law enforcement officials may not
be happy with his release. What’s the President’s message to them and to
others who say, essentially, that this was a bad deal, that this is a
terrible man who has not fully paid his debt?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, look, negotiations for release of wrongful
detainees are often very difficult — that’s just a reality — in part
because of the price that must be paid to bring Americans home to their
loved ones and in part because of immediate results can feel unfair or
arbitrary — right? — to your point.

Viktor Bout, who served 12 years in U.S. prison facilities after being
convicted with due process, who was scheduled for release in 2029, has
been allowed to return to Russia as part of this arrangement, as you all
know.

While, you know — look, we celebrate Brittney’s homecoming, we remain
committed to seeing Paul Whelan’s like- — likewise release.

Through every step of this process, we sought to bring Paul Whelan home
as well, and we did so in good faith with Russians and proposing
different options. And I’ll say this again: You know, we’ll not stop to
do that.

But here — here it is — you know, and I said — my colleagues said this
earlier today: The President felt a moral obligation to bring Brittney
home. There was an opportunity to do that. It was either Brittney or no
one at all.

And — and, you know, we’re not going to apologize for that. And, again,
this is what we were able to do to get her home. And we are not going to
stop, we will — not going to stop to bring Paul Whelan home as well.
We’re going to continue to do the work — and also other Americans who
have been held — wrongfully detained.

Q Thanks, Karine. One, just housekeeping off the top. Has Brittney
Griner boarded the plane back to the U.S.?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yes, she’s on her way. She’s on her way home.

Q Okay. So, she’s on the plane now from the UAE?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah. She’s on the plane back. Yes.

Q Can you help us understand, were there any other concessions that were
offered as a part of this deal? Did the U.S. give anything or get
anything that has not been disclosed —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: No.

Q — as part of this deal?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: No.

Q And just to try again on a question that you’ve gotten: How does this
deal not send a message to Russia and to other governments that, if they
wrongfully detain American citizens, that they will have some of their
most dangerous criminals — in this case, the “Merchant of Death” —
released?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Look, I’ve answered this question multiple times. And
I’ve said this, and you’ve all reported this, and you have seen this as
well: Russia and other countries have already been willing to wrongfully
detain U.S. citizens.

Q But does this encourage them to continue doing it — to do it even
more?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Look, I cannot speak for other countries. That is not
something that I am able to do from here.

What I can tell you is the promise that this President has made, right?
We’re not going to — certainly not going to talk about diplomatic
conversations that may be occurring, right? I’m not going to do that.
But we want — we want American people to know that their safety and
security is among our highest priorities. And we continue to work
aggressively, using every available means to bring home all U.S.
nationals wrongfully detained or being held captive here.

This is a promise that the President has made and we are not going to
apologize for it.

Q And on the statement that was put out that the governments of the UAE
and Saudi Arabia were engaged in mediating this deal, some have drawn a
link between the fact that the lawsuit was dropped just days ago against
MBS for the killing of Jamal Khashoggi. What do you say to those who see
a link in this broader deal?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Look, this is a — this is — this negotiation was in the
works for months, as I just laid out. I just went through the timeline.
Right? We talked about Secretary Blinken being very public in July. We
have been committed throughout this year to bring home Brittney and
Paul, and we’ve laid out the timeline of how this has all worked out.

And this has been through painstakingly extraordinary conversations that
have been had and that has been the focus. It’s been specifically on
those negotiations, channels that have been, clearly, open — right? —
that were private, that were public. And I’m not just — I’m just not
going to get into details on negotiations and what was worked through.

Q One more, quickly. Leader McCarthy has called this, quote, a “gift to
Vladimir Putin,” saying it “endangers American lives.” Your message to
McCarthy?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Again, sadly, Russia and other countries have already
been willing to wrongfully detain U.S. citizens. This is — this is
something that they have been willing to do. And what —

Q But what do you say to his contention, “This is a gift to Vladimir
Putin”?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: What we have said — and basically, I’m just going to
repeat what I have been saying: The President is committed and has been
very clear — and we have seen his work, right? This is — we have brought
home people who’ve been held hostage and wrongfully detained over the
course of his administration and across different countries, as you all
know, as you all have reported on this.

He is committed to making sure or doing everything that he can to bring
home Americans who are being wrongfully detained abroad. And that is his
commitment: to bring them home safely, to bring them back home to their
families and their loved ones. That is the commitment that this
President has, and that’s the work that you have been seeing from this
administration.

Go ahead.

Q Thank you, Karine. In this prisoner swap, why did Russia get such a
better deal?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Look, you know, I’ve talked about this, and I’ll say
this again. Here were our choices. Our choices was: Brittney or no one
at all. Bring home one American or no American at all. And that’s —
that’s —

Q And they give up a professional athlete. We gave up a prolific arms
dealer who was convicted of trying to kill Americans, who is called the
“Merchant of Death.”

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: The professional athlete is also an American citizen —
so let’s not forget that — who deserved —

Q And Paul Whelan is an American citizen. So we could do this all day.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: And so — and — and I’ve explained how the Russians have
illegally treated — totally illegitimately treated his situation. I’ve
been very clear on that. We’ve laid that all — we laid that out for you.

And, again, the President felt that this was an opportunity to bring
Brittney home.

He is going to continue to do everything he can to bring Paul Whelan
home, just like he did with Trevor Reed — just like he was able to
secure Trevor Reed’s release.

Q How can you say that he’s going to do everything that he can if he
said, just a few days ago, he’s not going to call up Vladimir Putin
until further notice?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: We were able to do this through — through different
channels. Right? We were able to do this through — through different
avenues — folks from the U.S. government that were able to make that
negotiation, have those conversation and secure Brittney’s return.

So, we were — we have been able to do this. And the President has been
committed to getting this done. We are still working to secure Paul
Whelan. At this time, we were not able to make that happen. But that
does not stop us. That will not stop us in making sure that Paul returns
back home safely to his family.

Q And just one other topic. You’ve said a few times that you really
can’t talk about communications between the Biden campaign and Twitter.
Who is telling you that that’s off limits?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I’ve already had that conversation with you — with your
colleague, I believe, yesterday. I’ve already addressed this multiple
times this week, so I don’t have anything more to add.

Again, I — we’ve — we’ve litigated this all week. Don’t have anything to
add.

Q But it’s not a — so, not a campaign question, though, an
administration question —

Q Karine, in the back, please.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I’m going to the back. I’m going to the back. I’m going
to the back.

Go ahead.

Q Yeah, thanks, Karine. On a different topic —

Q That’s not the back. That’s the middle.

Q — so the incoming —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: We’ll keep — we’ll keep going.

Q The incoming — so —

Q Also, I’m the most hungover in the room, as you promised yesterday.
(Laughter.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Oh, are you? (Laughs.) Okay. I’m coming back.

Q My head is killing me. Wow.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: You’re right. I said that I would go to the most
hungover person in the room. You’re right. (Laughter.) Go ahead. That
was the promise I made last night. You’re absolutely right.

Go ahead.

Q So the incoming House leader has announced that he will create a
select committee on China, and I wanted to get the President’s thoughts
about this committee. Do we need another set of eyeballs on the U.S.
policies towards China?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, we’re going to — I would refer you to the committee
on its internal committee — committee process here — to Congress, I
would refer you to.

Under President Biden, we are more prepared to outcompete China, protect
our national security, and advance a free and open Indo-Pacific than
ever before. We look forward to continue working with Congress on these
priorities — priorities where — you know, important issues, our top
priority on this. But I refer you to Congress.

Q But there doesn’t need to be a review of the whole relationship with
China?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Again, I would refer you to Congress on their internal
process here. All right. All right.

Go ahead.

Q Thanks, Karine. A few questions. First, on Brittney Griner. You
mentioned that Brittney is a part of two communities: the Black
community and the LGBTQ+ community. There were, as you know, many
advocacy groups and civil rights organizations that were rallying for
her. To what degree was that helpful or impactful to the
administration’s work to bring her home?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, look, I will just refer to you — to what Cherelle
said — Cherelle Griner said at the — at the podium earlier today —
right? — in the Roosevelt Room. And you saw her speak to — to the folks
outside of her network, outside of the administration who were — who she
applauded and thanked for their support.

And, yeah, you know, does that matter? Of course that matters. But I
want to be very clear as well: The President has been committed to this.
He showed — he has shown his commitment just the past almost two years
of his administration, when it comes to bringing home Americans who have
been wrongfully detained. That is something that you’ve seen his
administration work through.

And so, I’ll leave it there. But I’ll, you know, kind of just — kind of
relay what Cherelle said and what I repeated moments ago.

Q And TheGrio learned that the administration has reached out to the
families of victims of police violence — those who were killed by police
officers — to update them on the executive order that President Biden
signed earlier this year in May. Do you have any update on the
implementation of this executive order?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, look, the passing — the George — let me just start
there — passing the George Floyd Justice in Policing Act has been a
priority for this President, and he’s going to continue to work with
Congress to get that done, to get this bill to his desk so he can sign
it.

At the same time, the entire administration, as you’re asking me,
remains committed to implementing the President’s executive order to
help strengthen public trust and public safety.

I don’t have anything specific on — to share with you, but we are
committed to execute — executing that.

Q Madam?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Sorry, I’ll move to the back in a second.

Q Thank you, Karine. The sister of Emad Sharghi, who is an
American-Iranian hostage in Tehran, gave an emotional interview this
morning. She said she was thrilled for the release of Brittney Griner,
but she’s disappointed that neither the President nor Jake Sullivan met
with her or her family. So —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Can you say the name one more time?

Q His name is Emad Sharghi. He’s an American-Iranian hostage. So, some
people accused the White House of double standard. Why until now she was
unable to meet with anybody in the White House? And what are you doing
to release Americans who are held in Iranian jail until now?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: You’re talking about Ibrahim Almadi, or are you talking
about someone else? I didn’t hear the name.

Q His name is Emad Sharghi.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Okay.

Q And his sister is called Neda Sharghi.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Okay. So, look, I don’t know that case specifically, so
I can’t speak to it from here at this time. I would have to check.

I would also refer you to the State Department to get an update on that
particular — particular situation. So don’t want to get ahead of what
the State Department might share.

Q But she wants to meet with the President at the White House, just like
—

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I understand. I completely understand your question. I
would need to talk to the State Department or even refer you to the
State Department on that particular — specific case. I don’t have
anything to share with you at this time.

What I can tell you is that the President is committed and continues to
be committed in getting American — American citizens back home who are
being held, who are wrongfully detained.

I don’t know the specific case, so can’t speak to it, can’t speak to
where we are internally or any — any outreach that has occurred.

Q Any update on the Iranian — on the Americans held in Iran? Hostages.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I don’t — I don’t have an update for you at this time.
I would refer you to the Department of State. Okay?

Q Thanks, Karine. Just two follow-ups on things you’ve said about Griner
today. You’ve said a couple times that, in recent weeks, it’s become
clear that the Russians were willing to reach an agreement to secure
Griner’s release but they continue to treat Whelan differently. When you
say “in recent weeks,” do you mean after the midterm elections?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I don’t have the specific timeline for you. What I was
able to share is “in recent weeks.” Don’t have two weeks, three weeks. I
can just say for sure “in recent weeks.”

But, look, you know, again, the President has — has worked tirelessly
and has — so has his administration to — to get — wanting to get both of
them home. We have said this over and over again. But, regrettably, the
Russians have treated Paul Whelan’s situation very differently, in a
totally illegitimate way.

And so they are not — were not operating in good faith, and we were left
in a situation where it was either bringing Brittney home or no one at
all. And so we took the opportunity of bringing Brittney home to her
family and her friends. And we are going to continue to work — going to
continue to keep it a priority to get Paul home.

Q Well, that leads to my follow-up, which was: You’ve also said the
Russians are not operating in good faith. You said that a couple of
times. What exactly do you mean by “not operating in good faith”?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I’m not going to get into specific negotiations. All I
can tell you: They were not — they’re not able to operate in good faith
at this time.

But, again, we are — in order to increase the chances for our success,
we’re not going to discuss more about the negotiations for his release
in public. I’m sure you understand why — that we’re not willing to do
that.

But, again, we are going to continue to work very hard. The President is
committed to this, in securing Paul’s return.

Q Hey, Karine. Back on Marc Fogel for a second. He’s doing a 14-year
sentence for less than an ounce of pot. Would you say he’s been
wrongfully detained? There’s some lawmakers who want to classify it that
way.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Again, I can’t — I can’t speak to any individual,
specific case at this time.

I would refer you to the State Department. Everyone has a different
classification. I don’t want to get ahead of — of what the State
Department is looking to move forward or how their diplomatic
conversations or how they’re looking to move forward with that
particular person.

But we want — we want Americans to know that their safety and security
is among our highest priorities.

Again, I don’t want to get into specific — specific individuals from
here.

Q And on Viktor Bout: Has the Kremlin had to give any assurances somehow
that he will not go back to arming despots and dictators?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I’m not going to get into negotiations from here — what
was discussed.

Q No, but that’s (inaudible) —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: But I’m not — but that’s kind of part of the specific
negotiations. I’m just not going to get into — into specifics from here
of what was discussed.

Go ahead. Go ahead. You.

Q You were asked previously about the security assessment regarding
Viktor Bout, and you said that the United States would stay vigilant. It
sounds like the administration still sees him as a security threat. No?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: We’re saying — the question is, and the question has
been placed to us, is do we have security concerns. Right? And what we
have said is that the President did not make this decision lightly. Just
want to make that very clear. But he believed this was the right thing
to do to secure Brittney’s release. And we are always going to stay
vigilant. That is something — when it comes to our national security,
that is something that the President and his administration will do, and
we will sif- — swiftly act to protect it, to protect our national
security. And that is true yesterday. That is true today. And that will
be true after Mr. Bout’s release. So that is a commitment that the
President has made.

Q So you still have security concerns?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I’m not going to — I’m — you know, I’m not the
Intelligence Committee here, so I’m not going to get into any
intelligence about that particular individual. What I can tell you is
our commitment and how this was not a decision that the President made
lightly.

Q And then, on a different topic: Amidst protests in China against the
CCP, and after Apple changed its AirDrop feature for Chinese iPhone
users, why was Tim Cook seated at the head table during the last state
dinner here at the White House?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I don’t have any specifics on — on who was invited, why
they were invited. Don’t have that to share with you.

As you know, Tim Cook was also in Phoenix, Arizona, when the President
was talking about the CHIPS and Science Act. Made a very important
announcement. Remember, the President’s priority here has been and
continues to be, as he’s — he is pushing his economic priorities, is to
make sure that we’re creating manufacturing jobs right here in the U.S.

And we have seen more than 700,000 manufacturing jobs created under this
President. And it is important. It is going to change the lives of
Americans across the country.

And we’ve heard from everyday people in Arizona talking about how — how
the announcement that the President made is going to do that, how the
CHIPS and Science Act is changing the lives of Americans.

I’m not going to speak to specific — every specific individual invites
that was made last week.

Q Thank you. As the year comes to an end, how do you see the
relationship between the U.S. and India in this year, 2022?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Say that — say that again.

Q As this year comes to an end now, how do you see the relationship
between the two countries, India and U.S., in 2022?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So we see our — the U.S. relationship with India is
strong. That’s what we believe. We see it as a strong relationship.
President Biden and all levels of U.S. government are in touch with our
Indian partners — or their counterparts.

We are grateful for their leadership at the — at the last G20 and look
forward to working closely with India as they’re new chair of the G20.

So we also look forward to continue working with India on a range of
important regional and global issues as well.

Q But you don’t have a U.S. ambassador to India for more than — about
two years now. What’s the status on that? When can you have the
ambassador there?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, look, as Secretary Blinken spoke to this very
recently, and we have a crucial and, as I just stated, a consequential
relationship with India. We continue to seek the ex- — the confirmation
of Mayor Garcetti. We want that to — we want to see that happen quickly,
who — who, as you know, was voted out of committee with strong
bipartisan support to serve as ambassador to India. And so we will
continue to — to — we have — we don’t have any updates on timing, but we
will continue to push that forward.

Q One final one. You know the President has quite often spoken about
people-to-people relationship between India and U.S. And right now, the
visa wait time period for people in India at the U.S. Embassy and
Consulate is more than 1,000 days. I think this is historic in nature.
Is the President aware about it? What’s this administration doing to
address this?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So I can say that the Biden administration is aware of
the issues. While we have made great strides, as you know — because you
cover this very closely — in recovering from the pandemic-related
closures and staffing challenges, we are still working to respond to the
significant demand of these visa services. That is something that we
will continue to do.

We are successfully lowering visa interview wait times — that’s around
the world. And we’ve doubled our hiring of U.S. foreign service
personnel to do this important work. Visa processing is recovering
faster than projected. And this year, we expect to reach pre-pandemic
processing levels. And any specifics or more about the visa process, I
would refer you to the State Department on that.

Go ahead. Go ahead. Go ahead.

(Cross-talk.)

Q Can you take a question on the U.S.-Africa Summit?

Q Thank you, Karine —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Go ahead.

Q Can you take a question on the U.S.-Africa Summit?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I — go ahead. Go ahead.

Q Karine, you’ve —

Q Karine, why is it so hard to take a question on the U.S.-Africa
Summit, when the President is meeting 50 African leaders — the biggest
gathering of leaders of his administration? Why is it hard for you to
give me a question?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: It is not hard. I’ve answered — I —

Q No, it is hard, because it’s been months. You don’t —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Would you let me answer the question? Or are you going
to —

Q I don’t want to yell, but you don’t give us (inaudible).

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Okay.

(Cross-talk.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Okay. I’m trying to answer your question.

Go ahead, sir. Go ahead.

Q Thanks. I have two —

Q Can I — can I ask a question?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I just tried. You wouldn’t let me.

Go ahead.

Q I have two quick questions —

Q No, but can I ask you a question?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I just tried, and you would not let me, sir —

Q I have two —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: — so your colleague is going to ask a question.

Go ahead.

Q So let — so let me ask you a question on the U.S.-Africa Summit.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: No, I just — I literally just tried to answer your
question. You shut me down. So now your colleague is going to —

Q Okay, so let me ask the question first, before you answer it.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Okay. Thanks, everybody. I’ll see you tomorrow.

1:41 P.M. EST
