---
date: '2022-04-22'
modified_time: 2022-04-22 15:13:51-04:00
published_time: 2022-04-22 15:13:50-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/04/22/a-proclamation-on-national-crime-victims-rights-week-2022/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Crime Victims\u2019 Rights Week,\_2022"
---
 
Forty years ago, the President’s Task Force on Victims of Crime was
established to help those who had experienced crime and their families —
an important step toward the protection of and support for victims’
rights.  Over the years, crime victims’ rights have evolved.  Dedicated
professionals have worked to develop support and services for survivors
that are more holistic, trauma-informed, and effective at overcoming
systemic barriers that certain communities face in prosecuting offenders
and obtaining justice.  However, more work remains to be done to advance
these goals.  During National Crime Victims’ Rights Week, our Nation
renews our commitment to providing survivors of crime the support they
need to heal.  We honor the dedicated victim service providers who
support crime victims, and we continue to advance this important cause
for all people. 

Delivering true justice requires that we provide all victims with the
support they need.  Persistent barriers still prevent many survivors
from receiving the services they need and the justice they deserve. 
Many crimes — including violent crimes, such as rape and sexual assault
— often go unreported to law enforcement because, among other concerns,
victims fear placing themselves in further danger and negative
interactions with the criminal justice system.  My Administration is
also working to tackle the epidemic of gun violence, which is a public
health and public safety crisis.  In the absence of necessary
Congressional action, my Administration is taking action to get illegal
guns — and those who would use them to commit crimes — off of our
streets. 

Victims of crime not only face physical and emotional costs, they often
suffer a serious economic toll as well, and this is another area in
which my Administration is making progress.  The Crime Victims Fund,
established through the Victims of Crime Act (VOCA), helps provide
critical resources for victim services and victim compensation programs
throughout the country.  That is why, last July, I signed the VOCA Fix
to Sustain the Crime Victim Fund Act into law to strengthen VOCA and
increase the revenues to support survivors of crime and victim services
organizations.  My Administration is supporting innovative programs like
sexual assault telehealth services and hospital-based victim assistance,
enabling providers to quickly reach more survivors and reduce repeated
victimization.  I am also proud to have recently signed into law the
reauthorization of the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA), which funds
programs that provide services to survivors of domestic violence, dating
violence, sexual assault, and stalking.  This reauthorization of VAWA
also expands the rights of victims of technology-facilitated
gender-based violence and also includes historic Tribal provisions to
protect Native communities and help them pursue justice. 

Strengthening public safety also means addressing the trauma and
inequality of victimization experienced by communities of color, Native
American communities, the LGBTQI+ community, the Asian American
community, and other historically marginalized groups.  People of color
suffer higher rates of victimization, and violence is disproportionally
concentrated in neighborhoods that have been harmed persistently by
racial discrimination, segregation, redlining, and disinvestment. 
Breaking the cycle of violence enhances public safety, public health,
and equity.  We also know that members of the LGBTQI+ community are more
likely to be victims of violent crime.  

My Administration is committed to using all tools at our disposal to
ensure every survivor of crime has equal access to the resources and
services they need to recover from their ordeals and regain a feeling of
safety.  To address a surge in hate crimes and bias-motivated attacks —
and to provide law enforcement with the resources to identify and
investigate hate crimes, I signed the COVID-19 Hate Crimes Act into law.
 As part of this law, we have funded a new Center for Culturally
Responsive Victim Services to help local programs better serve
historically marginalized communities.  

 In addition to supporting crime victims, we must also hold offenders
accountable.  That is why the Departments of Justice and Homeland
Security are committed to investigating and enforcing our criminal and
civil laws and ensuring that Federal, State, local, territorial, and
Tribal law enforcement officers and prosecutors receive the training and
resources they need to deliver justice to victims.

 It takes enormous courage and extraordinary strength to emerge from
life’s most painful moments.  As a Nation, let us all work together to
stop crimes before they happen and to give victims the support they need
to restore a sense of trust and safety and to move toward healing and
justice.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim April 24 through
April 30, 2022, National Crime Victims’ Rights Week.  I call upon all
Americans to observe this week by participating in events that raise
awareness of victims’ rights and services and by volunteering to serve
victims in their time of need.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-second day
of April, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-two, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
