---
date: '2022-04-15'
published_time: 2022-04-15 11:01:30-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/04/15/a-proclamation-on-national-park-week-2022/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Park Week,\_2022"
---
 
     From the Great Smoky Mountains in North Carolina and Tennessee, to
the wonderous sights of the Grand Canyon in Arizona, to the vast hidden
treasures of the Channel Islands in California, our cherished national
parks are home to so many of those most beautiful places on Earth,
places that astonish us, inspire us, and fill us with a sense of pride
and belonging.  During National Park Week, we celebrate the natural
splendor of our national parks and show our appreciation for the
Department of the Interior and National Park Service’s dedicated
stewardship of them.

     Last month, our Nation celebrated the 150th anniversary of
Yellowstone National Park — the world’s first national park and a place
that holds many treasured memories for me.  The desire to protect and
share the indescribable beauty, bountiful wildlife, and natural
resources of Yellowstone laid the foundation for what would become
America’s national parks system. 

     To protect our Nation’s outdoors and all of its marvels, I was
proud to launch the “America the Beautiful” initiative — the first-ever
voluntary national conservation effort with a goal to conserve 30
percent of our country’s lands and waters by 2030.  I have called for a
whole-of-government approach that supports locally-led efforts to
conserve and restore lands and waters across the country.  In doing so,
we will address the interconnected climate and biodiversity crises that
our planet faces and also allow more people in more communities to have
access to nature and the physical and spiritual nourishment it provides.

     Historic investments through the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law and
the Great American Outdoors Act are also allowing us to revitalize our
national parks and public lands by modernizing facilities and addressing
the extensive deferred maintenance and repair backlog.  These laws also
allow us to make progress on pollution clean-up, environmental
sustainability, climate resiliency, and green energy initiatives. 
Through these important upgrades and restoration efforts, we will make
it possible for more people to enjoy our national parks, today and for
generations to come.  

     My Administration is working to fully engage with Tribal Nations by
acknowledging their history and learning from their ancestral and modern
connections to our national parks.  By recognizing Native American
Tribes’ connection to this land since time immemorial and finding
opportunities to collaborate on managing our shared lands and waters, we
can preserve Native American Tribes’ rich histories while safeguarding
America’s national parks for future generations.  The National Park
Service is also working with stakeholders to connect more Americans to
our national parks, incorporating the experiences, backgrounds, and
history of every community that these sites represent. 

     As part of my Administration’s efforts to advance equity,
diversity, and inclusion, we have made a priority of creating equitable
access to our shared natural resources.  Through programs funded by the
Land and Water Conservation Fund, such as the Outdoor Recreation Legacy
Partnership, we are working with communities to develop and
preserve green space, reinvigorating existing national parks, and
expanding opportunities to forge connections between people and the
outdoors, particularly in economically underserved areas.  By tackling
the intersecting challenges of environmental and racial justice, we will
create a future where all Americans can enjoy everything that our
national parks have to offer.

     As we have learned throughout the COVID-19 pandemic, providing easy
and equitable access to the great outdoors is vital for our physical,
mental, and social health.  National parks, trails, and other
close-to-home public spaces create opportunities for us to get outdoors,
enjoy fresh air, and socialize or find sanctuary. 

     Our national parks serve as a source of recreation, inspiration,
and spirit.  They are, indeed, America’s best idea.  I encourage all
Americans to take some time during National Park Week to connect with
our national parks. 

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim April
16 through April 24, 2022, as National Park Week.   I encourage all
Americans to find their park, recreate responsibly, and enjoy the
benefits that come from spending time in the natural world.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this fifteenth day
of April, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-two, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
