---
date: '2022-04-22'
published_time: 2022-04-22 15:34:30-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/04/22/executive-order-on-strengthening-the-nations-forests-communities-and-local-economies/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "Executive Order on Strengthening the Nation\u2019s Forests, Communities, and\
  \ Local\_Economies"
---
 
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1.  Policy.  Strengthening America’s forests, which are home to
cherished expanses of mature and old-growth forests on Federal lands, is
critical to the health, prosperity, and resilience of our communities —
particularly in light of the threat of catastrophic wildfires.  Forests
provide clean air and water, sustain the plant and animal life
fundamental to combating the global climate and biodiversity crises, and
hold special importance to Tribal Nations.  We go to these special
places to hike, camp, hunt, fish, and engage in recreation that
revitalizes our souls and connects us to history and nature.  Many local
economies thrive because of these outdoor and forest management
activities, including in the sustainable forest product sector.

Globally, forests represent some of the most biodiverse parts of our
planet and play an irreplaceable role in reaching net-zero greenhouse
gas emissions. Terrestrial carbon sinks absorb around 30 percent of the
carbon dioxide emitted by human activities each year.  Here at home,
America’s forests absorb more than 10 percent of annual United States
economy-wide greenhouse gas emissions.  Conserving old-growth and mature
forests on Federal lands while supporting and advancing climate-smart
forestry and sustainable forest products is critical to protecting these
and other ecosystem services provided by those forests.

Despite their importance, the world’s forests are quickly disappearing;
only a small fraction of the world’s mature and old-growth forests
remains.  Here at home, the primary threats to forests, including mature
and old-growth forests, include climate impacts, catastrophic wildfires,
insect infestation, and disease.  We can and must take action to
conserve, restore, reforest, and manage our magnificent forests here at
home and, working closely with international partners, throughout the
world. 

It is the policy of my Administration, in consultation with State,
local, Tribal, and territorial governments, as well as the private
sector, nonprofit organizations, labor unions, and the scientific
community, to pursue science-based, sustainable forest and land
management; conserve America’s mature and old-growth forests on Federal
lands; invest in forest health and restoration; support indigenous
traditional ecological knowledge and cultural and subsistencepractices;
honor Tribal treaty rights; and deploy climate-smart forestry practices
and other nature-based solutions to improve the resilience of our lands,
waters, wildlife, and communities in the face of increasing disturbances
and chronic stress arising from climate impacts.  It is also the policy
of my Administration, as outlined in *Conserving and Restoring America
the Beautifu*l, to support collaborative, locally led conservation
solutions.

The Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act (IIJA) I signed into law
provides generational investments in ecosystem restoration and wildfire
risk reduction.  As we use this funding, we will seek opportunities,
consistent with the IIJA, to conserve our mature and old-growth forests
on Federal lands and restore the health and vibrancy of our Nation’s
forests by reducing the threat of catastrophic wildfires through
ecological treatments that create resilient forest conditions using
active, science-based forest management and prescribed fires; by
incorporating indigenous traditional ecological knowledge; and by
scaling up and optimizing climate-smart
reforestation.  My Administration also is committed to doing its part
to combat deforestation around the world and to working with our
international partners toward sustainable management of the world’s
lands, waters, and ocean.

Sec. 2.  Restoring and Conserving the Nation’s Forests, Including Mature
and Old-Growth Forests.  My Administration will manage forests on
Federal lands, which include many mature and old-growth forests, to
promote their continued health and resilience; retain and enhance carbon
storage; conserve biodiversity; mitigate the risk of wildfires; enhance
climate resilience; enable subsistence and cultural uses; provide
outdoor recreational opportunities; and promote sustainable local
economic development.  Science—based reforestation is one of the
greatest opportunities both globally and in the United States for the
land sector to contribute to climate and biodiversity goals.  To further
conserve mature and old-growth forests and foster long-term United
States forest health through climate-smart reforestation for the benefit
of Americans today and for generations to come, the following actions
shall be taken, in consultation with State, local, Tribal, and
territorial governments and the public, and to the extent consistent
with applicable law: 

(a)  The Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of Agriculture
(Secretaries) — the Federal Government’s primary land managers — shall
continue to jointly pursue wildfire mitigation strategies, which are
already driving important actions to confront a pressing threat to
mature and old-growth forests on Federal lands:  catastrophic wildfires
driven by decades of fire exclusion and climate change.

(b)  The Secretary of the Interior, with respect to public lands managed
by the Bureau of Land Management, and the Secretary of Agriculture, with
respect to National Forest System lands, shall, within 1 year of the
date of this order, define, identify, and complete an inventory
of old-growth and mature forests on Federal lands, accounting for
regional and ecological variations, as appropriate, and shall make such
inventory publicly available.  

(c)  Following completion of the inventory, the Secretaries shall:

(i)    coordinate conservation and wildfire risk reduction activities,
including consideration of climate-smart stewardship of mature and
old-growth forests, with other executive departments and agencies
(agencies), States, Tribal Nations, and any private landowners who
volunteer to participate;

(ii)   analyze the threats to mature and old-growth forests on Federal
lands, including from wildfires and climate change; and

(iii)  develop policies, with robust opportunity for public comment, to
institutionalize climate-smart management and conservation strategies
that address threats to mature and old-growth forests on Federal lands.

(d)  The Secretaries, in coordination with the heads of other agencies
as appropriate, shall within 1 year of the date of this order:

(i)    develop a Federal goal that charges agencies to meet
agency-specific reforestation targets by 2030, including an assessment
of reforestation opportunities on Federal lands and through existing
Federal programs and partnerships;

(ii)   develop, in collaboration with Federal, State, Tribal, and
private-sector partners, a climate-informed plan (building on existing
efforts) to increase Federal cone and seed collection and to ensure seed
and seedling nursery capacity is sufficient to meet anticipated
reforestation demand; and

(iii)  develop, in coordination with the Secretary of Commerce, with
State, local, Tribal, and territorial governments, and with the private
sector, nonprofit organizations, labor unions, and the scientific
community, recommendations for community-led local and regional economic
development opportunities to create and sustain jobs in the sustainable
forest product sector, including innovative materials, and in outdoor
recreation, while supporting healthy, sustainably managed forests in
timber communities. 

Sec. 3.  Stopping International Deforestation.  As described in
the *Plan to Conserve Global Forests:  Critical Carbon Sinks*, my
Administration has committed to deliver, by 2030, on collective global
goals to end natural forest loss and to restore at least an additional
200 million hectares of forests and other ecosystems, while showcasing
new economic models that reflect the services provided by critical
ecosystems around the world.  The plan recognizes that conserving and
restoring global forest and peatland ecosystems, particularly in the
Amazon, Congo Basin, and Southeast Asia, can provide significant global
greenhouse gas emissions mitigation, both by preventing the emissions
caused by deforestation and by increasing the amount of carbon dioxide
captured from the atmosphere and stored in soils and forest
biomass.  My Administration is also committed to combating illegal
logging and stopping trade in illegally sourced wood products pursuant
to the Lacey Act, as amended, 16 U.S.C. 3371 *et seq.*, and to
addressing the related importation of commodities sourced from recently
deforested land.  To further advance these commitments, conserve these
critical ecosystems, and address drivers of global deforestation —
including illegal forest clearing to produce agricultural commodities —
the following actions shall be taken:

(a)  within 1 year of the date of this order, the Secretary of State, in
consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury, the Secretary of
Agriculture, the Secretary of Commerce, the Secretary of Homeland
Security (through the Commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border
Protection), the Administrator of the Small Business Administration, the
Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development,
the United States Trade Representative, and the Special Presidential
Envoy for Climate, shall submit a report to the President evaluating
options, including recommendations for proposed legislation, for a
whole-of-government approach to combating international deforestation
that includes:

(i)   an analysis of the feasibility of limiting or removing
specific commodities grown on lands deforested either illegally or after
December 31, 2020, from agricultural supply chains; and

(ii)  an analysis of the potential for public-private partnerships with
major agricultural commodity buyers, traders, financial institutions,
and other actors to voluntarily reduce or eliminate the purchase of such
commodities and incentivize sourcing of sustainably produced
agricultural commodities. 

(b)  within 1 year of the date of this order, the Secretary of State, in
coordination with other appropriate agencies, shall submit a report to
the President on how agencies that engage in international programming,
assistance, finance, investment, trade, and trade promotion, can,
consistent with applicable law, accomplish the following:

(i)    incorporate the assessment of risk of deforestation and other
land conversion into guidance on foreign assistance
and investmentprogramming related to infrastructure development,
agriculture, settlements, land use planning or zoning, and energy siting
and generation;

(ii)   address deforestation and land conversion risk in new relevant
trade agreements and seek to address such risks, where possible, in the
implementation of existing trade agreements;

(iii)  identify and engage in international processes and fora, as
appropriate, to pursue approaches to combat deforestation and enhance
sustainable land use opportunities in preparing climate, development,
and finance strategies;

(iv)   engage other major commodity-importing and commodity-producing
countries to advance common interests in addressing commodity-driven
deforestation; and

(v)    assess options to direct foreign assistance and other agency
programs and tools, as appropriate, to help threatened forest
communities transition to an economically sustainable future, with
special attention to the participation of and the critical role played
by indigenous peoples and local communities and landholders in
protecting and restoring forests and in reducing deforestation and
forest degradation.

Sec. 4.  Deploying Nature-Based Solutions to Tackle Climate Change and
Enhance Resilience.  Just as forest conservation, restoration, and
adaptation generate broad benefits related to climate change and other
areas, other nature-based solutions can advance multiple
benefits.  These solutions include actions that protect coasts and
critical marine ecosystems, reduce flooding, moderate extreme heat,
replenish groundwater sources, capture and store carbon dioxide,
conserve biodiversity, and improve the productivity of agricultural and
forest lands to produce food and fiber.  To ensure that agencies pursue
nature-based solutions, to the extent consistent with applicable law and
supported by science, the following actions shall be taken:

(a)  The Chair of the Council on Environmental Quality, the Director of
the Office of Science and Technology Policy, and the Assistant to the
President and National Climate Advisor shall, in consultation with the
Secretary of Defense (through the Assistant Secretary of the Army for
Civil Works), the Secretary of the Interior, the Secretary of
Agriculture, the Secretary of Commerce (through the Administrator of the
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration), the Secretary of
Housing and Urban Development, the Secretary of Transportation, the
Secretary of Energy, the Secretary of Homeland Security (through the
Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency), the
Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, the Administrator
of the Small Business Administration, and the heads of other agencies as
appropriate, submit a report to the National Climate Task Force to
identify key opportunities for greater deployment of nature-based
solutions across the Federal Government, including through potential
policy, guidance, and program changes. 

(b)  The Director of the Office of Management and Budget shall issue
guidance related to the valuation of ecosystem and environmental
services and natural assets in Federal regulatory decision-making,
consistent with the efforts to modernize regulatory review required by
my Presidential Memorandum of January 20, 2021 (Modernizing Regulatory
Review).

(c)  Implementation of the United States Global Change Research Program
shall include an assessment of the condition of nature within the United
States in a report carrying out section 102 of the Global Change
Research Act of 1990, 15 U.S.C. 2932.

Sec. 5.  General Provisions.  (a)  Nothing in this order shall be
construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i)   the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency,
or the head thereof; or

(ii)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and
subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or
benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by
any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.

THE WHITE HOUSE,  
April 22, 2022.

    
