---
date: '2022-04-29'
published_time: 2022-04-29 12:50:19-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/04/29/a-proclamation-on-jewish-american-heritage-month-2022/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Jewish American Heritage Month,\_2022"
---
 
In 1654, a small ship carrying 23 Jewish refugees sailed into the port
of present-day New York City.  Fleeing oppression and discrimination,
these courageous women and men faced resistance from the colony’s
leaders.  Nevertheless, they secured the right to remain and became the
first Jewish communal presence to settle on American soil.  In so doing,
they expanded the frontier of religious freedoms that would help define
the bedrock principles upon which this Nation was built.  During Jewish
American Heritage Month, we honor these 23 refugees and the centuries of
successive generations of Jewish Americans, who — shaped by their own
encounters with prejudice, persecution, and the promise of a better
tomorrow — have emboldened our Nation to stand up for justice, equality,
and freedom.

The story of America was written, in part, by Jewish Americans who,
through their words and actions, embraced the opportunity and
responsibility of citizenship knowing full well that democracy is not
born, nor sustained, by accident.  Inspired by Jewish American communal
leadership, our Nation’s first President pledged that our Government
will “give to bigotry no sanction, to persecution no assistance.”
 Inspired by Jewish American poetry, our shores have welcomed millions
with the words “Give me your tired, your poor, your huddled masses
yearning to be free.”  Throughout our country’s history, Jewish
Americans have proudly served our Nation in uniform, in elected office,
and on our Nation’s highest courts.  They have made enormous
contributions to America’s cultural, scientific, artistic, and
intellectual life, and they have marched, petitioned, and boarded buses
to demand civil and political rights for all — from women’s rights to
voting rights to workers’ rights.

Today, we continue to strive to live up to our founding ideals.  As the
scourge of white supremacy and antisemitic violence rises, my
Administration remains committed to ensuring that hate has no safe
harbor.  That is why we have created new laws that give us more tools to
combat hate crimes; developed the first-ever National Strategy for
Countering Domestic Terrorism; provided assistance to religious
organizations, places of worship, and nonprofits to protect their
facilities and members; and named a new Special Envoy to Monitor and
Combat Antisemitism.  My Administration will use the full force of our
judicial system to confront bigotry and antisemitism wherever and
whenever it surfaces.

The Jewish American story, and the story of our Nation as a whole, is
fueled by faith, resilience, and hope.  It is a story defined by a firm
belief in possibilities, the resolve to make real the promise of America
for all Americans, and a commitment to perfecting our Union, heeding the
timeless words of Rabbi Tarfon, the first-century scholar who taught “It
is not your duty to finish the work, but neither are you at liberty to
neglect it.”

Three-hundred and sixty-eight years after those 23 brave Jewish refugees
arrived in America, Jewish Americans continue to help our country thrive
and prosper.  This month, we honor the timeless traditions, heritage,
and contributions of Jewish Americans that drive our progress as a
Nation each and every day.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim May 2022 as Jewish
American Heritage Month.  I call upon all Americans to visit
JewishHeritageMonth.gov to learn more about the heritage and
contributions of Jewish Americans and to observe this month with
appropriate programs, activities, and ceremonies.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-ninth day of
April, in the year two thousand twenty-two, and of the Independence of
the United States of America the two hundred and forty-sixth.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
