---
date: '2022-04-29'
published_time: 2022-04-29 12:50:05-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/04/29/a-proclamation-on-asian-american-native-hawaiian-and-pacific-islander-heritage-month-2022/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Asian American, Native Hawaiian, And Pacific Islander Heritage\
  \ Month,\_2022"
---
 
During Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander Heritage
Month, our Nation recognizes the innumerable contributions, vibrant
cultures, and rich heritage of Asian Americans, Native Hawaiians, and
Pacific Islanders (AA and NHPIs).  As some of the fastest-growing racial
and ethnic groups in the Nation, AA and NHPI communities represent a
multitude of ethnicities, languages, and experiences that enrich America
and strengthen our Union.  
  
AA and NHPIs have long played an essential role in writing the American
story.  From serving our country in uniform, advocating for civil
rights, starting new businesses, and winning Olympic medals, the
contributions of the AA and NHPI community touch the lives of Americans
every day.  AA and NHPIs serve with distinction at the highest levels of
Federal, State, and local government.  I am proud to have Vice President
Kamala Harris, the first person of South Asian descent to serve as Vice
President, and Katherine Tai, the first Asian American United States
Trade Representative, in my Administration.  
  
As we celebrate AA and NHPI communities, we must also redouble our
commitment to combating the surge of anti-Asian hate crimes.  The First
Lady and I shared the Nation’s outrage as we witnessed these crimes
increase by 339 percent last year compared to the year before in cities
across America.  Many other incidents of anti-Asian bias, xenophobia,
and harassment that surfaced throughout the COVID-19 pandemic were not
even reported.  We cannot allow these horrific acts to continue
threatening the safety of AA and NHPI Americans — especially women,
girls, and the elderly.  These acts are wrong; they are un-American; and
they must stop.   
  
In my first week in office, I directed all executive departments and
agencies to combat xenophobia, hate, and discrimination against AA and
NHPI communities.  I also signed into law last May the COVID-19 Hate
Crimes Act to provide law enforcement with resources to identify,
investigate, and report hate crimes and ensure that hate crimes
information is more accessible to AA and NHPI communities.  
  
As we work to ensure that hatred has no safe harbor in America’s future,
we must confront shameful chapters in our history.  That is why, for
example, I signed into law the Amache National Historic Site Act — to
memorialize the 10,000 Japanese Americans who were unjustly imprisoned
at Amache during World War II.  And we will continue to root out racial
injustices of our past and advance equity for all Americans as we move
forward.  
  
Toward that aim, my Administration is making long-overdue investments in
AA and NHPI communities.  I reestablished and expanded the President’s
Advisory Commission and the White House Initiative on Asian Americans,
Native Hawaiians, and Pacific Islanders.  The American Rescue Plan
helped reduce poverty among AA and NHPI families by approximately 26
percent.  We have increased access to capital, training, and counseling
for AA and NHPI entrepreneurs so their businesses can thrive.  We are
also working to ensure that healthcare resources are available to AA and
NHPI communities.  And we are rebuilding our immigration system so
everyone is treated fairly and humanely — including AA and NHPI
communities.  
  
This month, we celebrate our fellow Americans from AA and NHPI
communities and pay tribute to all they have done to help fulfill the
promise of America for all.  Together, let us recommit ourselves to
building a country in which every American — regardless of who they are,
where they come from, or what they look like — has an equal opportunity
to thrive.  
  
NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim May 2022 as Asian
American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander Heritage Month.  I call
upon all Americans to learn more about the history of AA and NHPIs, and
to observe this month with appropriate programs and activities.  
  
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-ninth day of
April, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-two, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
