---
date: '2022-04-29'
modified_time: 2022-04-29 12:55:34-04:00
published_time: 2022-04-29 12:55:33-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/04/29/a-proclamation-on-national-foster-care-month-2022/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Foster Care Month,\_2022"
---
 
Every May, we renew our commitment to ensuring that all youth in foster
care have the love, support, and resources they need to thrive.  We also
celebrate the families who provide safe and loving homes for our
Nation’s foster children.  We share our appreciation for the dedicated
volunteers and professionals who help our Nation’s foster youth find
permanent homes and connect with their biological families when
appropriate — many of whom are working hard to safely reunite with their
children.  
  
Today, nearly a third of children in foster care are being raised by kin
— many of whom are grandparents.  This helps children retain family
bonds and a sense of cultural identity, which are so important to a
child’s resilience and well-being.  As children and families of color
are disproportionately overrepresented in foster care, it is essential
that we invest in culturally supportive services to nurture all children
and families who are impacted by the child welfare system.  
  
The COVID-19 pandemic has had a disproportionate impact on young people
in foster care.  That is why my Administration implemented the
Supporting Foster Youth and Families through the Pandemic Act — helping
foster youth aging out of the system access services to stay in school,
participate in job training programs, pay rent and other bills, and
transition to adulthood.  My Administration also funded grants that help
agencies connect kinship caregivers and foster parents to programs and
services for children in their care and we continue to promote best
practices that identify and notify relatives when a child has been
placed into foster care.  
  
This month, we also recognize the history of injustice in America’s
foster care system — particularly against Black and Native Americans. 
Relative to their white peers, Black and Native American children stay
in foster care longer and are less likely to be adopted or reunited with
their birth parents.  Furthermore, foster care systems do not provide
children with disabilities or LGBTQI+ youth with the individualized
support, resources, and safety measures they need and deserve.  My
Administration stands with transgender youth in foster care and with all
families that love and care for their children.  
  
To improve our foster care system, I have proposed a significant funding
increase and a package of reforms to expand prevention services so more
children can remain safely in their own homes.  For children who need to
be placed into foster care, my proposal provides States with incentives
to place more children with relatives or adults with whom they are
emotionally bonded, when appropriate.  It will also increase resources
for youth who are aging out of foster care.  In addition, I have called
for competitive grants for States to advance racial equity, expand
prevention services, and improve education outcomes in our child welfare
system.  My proposal would also help more low- and moderate-income
families afford the costs of adoption and legal guardianship of children
who would otherwise be in foster care.  
     
National Foster Care Month is an opportunity for us to celebrate foster
youth and the people who provide them with love and support.  It is our
duty to help vulnerable children, and child welfare professionals and
the families they serve.  Through education, volunteering, and
partnerships, we can strengthen our communities and ensure that youth in
foster care have the support they need for a future they deserve.  
  
NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim May 2022 as
National Foster Care Month.  I call upon all Americans to observe this
month by reaching out in their neighborhoods and communities to the
children and youth in foster care and their families, to those at risk
of entering foster care, and to kin families and other caregivers.  
  
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-ninth day of
April, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-two, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth. 

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
