---
date: '2022-04-29'
modified_time: 2022-04-29 12:43:01-04:00
published_time: 2022-04-29 12:43:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/04/29/a-proclamation-on-national-building-safety-month-2022/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Building Safety Month,\_2022"
---
 
During National Building Safety Month, we renew our commitment to
strengthening our buildings so that all Americans are safe.  As our
Nation continues to mourn the loss of those who perished in the Surfside
condominium collapse and other building disasters, it is clear that the
quality and resiliency of our infrastructure has never been more
important.  This month we also show our appreciation to the dedicated
professionals who work tirelessly to create affordable, sustainable, and
structurally sound buildings for our communities.  
   
The impact of climate change and the increasing frequency and severity
of natural hazard incidents — injuring people and damaging property and
the environment — pose significant challenges for our infrastructure.
 Increasing our energy efficiency plays an important role in keeping
Americans safe.  Residential and commercial buildings account for more
than one-third of the climate-altering carbon pollution that America
releases each year — directly affecting our climate.  Although
hurricanes, floods, extreme heat, and wildfires impact communities
across the Nation, they disproportionately impact communities of color
and low-income communities that cannot necessarily afford to modernize
their buildings or prepare for and recover from climate hazards.  
  
The historic Bipartisan Infrastructure Law tackles these challenges head
on. It enables us to repair our Nation’s aging infrastructure, modernize
and electrify our buildings, and advance our climate resiliency. By
investing in infrastructure, we are investing in opportunities and
quality jobs for Americans — particularly in disadvantaged and
underserved communities. To further support these communities, we are
also providing grant funds for equitable disaster recovery.  
  
This year’s National Building Safety Month theme — “Safety for All:
Codes in Action” — is an important reminder that modern building code
adoption and enforcement is essential to keeping our homes, businesses,
schools, and other facilities safe.  By investing in our infrastructure,
modernizing our buildings, and adopting building codes, our buildings
will contribute less to climate change, protect more Americans, and be
better positioned to withstand extreme natural hazards in the future.  
  
As we recommit to effective safety standards this month, let us pay
tribute to building professionals nationwide — architects, engineers,
construction workers, inspectors, building officials, and others — who
help safeguard our communities.  Let us strengthen our collaboration
within and across the public, private, and non-profit sectors to address
building safety needs today so we can meet the infrastructure challenges
of tomorrow.  
  
NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim May 2022 as
National Building Safety Month.  I encourage citizens, government
agencies, businesses, nonprofits, and other interested groups to join in
activities that raise awareness about building safety.  I also call on
all Americans to learn more about how they can contribute to building
safety at home, work, and in their communities.  
  
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-ninth day of
April, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-two, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
