---
date: '2022-04-08'
published_time: 2022-04-08 11:25:45-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/04/08/a-proclamation-on-national-former-prisoner-of-war-recognition-day-2022/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Former Prisoner Of War Recognition Day,\_2022"
---
 
     On April 9, 1942, tens of thousands of American and Filipino
prisoners of war began what would become known to history as the Bataan
Death March.  Thousands died during the march, but the indomitable
spirit of those prisoners was never broken.  Eighty years later, our
Nation continues to honor their courage and recognize the more than half
a million service members who sacrificed their own freedom as prisoners
of war to ensure that our Nation and the values of freedom and democracy
always prevail. 

     Former prisoners of war stand among the bravest of our Nation. 
They fought valiantly and served with honor — and under often agonizing
conditions as prisoners, they demonstrated incredible personal courage,
love of country, and devotion to duty.  Through their extraordinary
sacrifices and selflessness, they helped ensure freedom for millions of
people.  They are heroes.

     I join all Americans in expressing our deepest gratitude to every
service member who has endured being a prisoner of war and to their
families, caregivers, and survivors.  Their service — knowing all the
risk and danger it could bring — is a credit to their character and to
our Nation.  On this day and every day, we remember the hardships of
captivity they survived in service to our Nation.  We also remember all
the brave women and men who died as prisoners in foreign lands during
our Nation’s past wars, and we grieve with those at home who prayed for
their loved ones’ return.  Their faith, love of family, and devotion to
our Nation inspire us all, and we will always remember their sacrifices.

     Today, our brave men and women in uniform carry on the rich legacy
of our former prisoners of war — unrelenting in battle, unwavering in
loyalty, unmatched in decency, and prepared to make the ultimate
sacrifice on behalf of our Nation.

     May God bless our former prisoners of war and their families, and
may God protect our troops.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim April
9, 2022, as National Former Prisoner of War Recognition Day.  I call
upon Americans to observe this day by honoring the service and sacrifice
of all former prisoners of war as our Nation expresses its eternal
gratitude for their sacrifice.  I also call upon Federal, State, and
local government officials and organizations to observe this day
with appropriate ceremonies and activities.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this eighth day of
April, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-two, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
