---
date: '2022-04-08'
published_time: 2022-04-08 11:22:08-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/04/08/a-proclamation-on-black-maternal-health-week-2022/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Black Maternal Health Week,\_2022"
---
 
Pregnancy and childbirth should be a dignified, safe, and joyful
experience for all.  For far too many mothers, however, complications
related to pregnancy, childbirth, and postpartum can lead to devastating
health outcomes — including hundreds of deaths each year.  This maternal
health crisis is particularly devastating for Black women, who are more
than three times as likely to die from pregnancy-related complications
as white women, regardless of their income or education.  During Black
Maternal Health Week, we renew our commitment to addressing the crisis
of Black maternal mortality and morbidity across the country.  
  
The Biden-Harris Administration remains fully committed to ameliorating
these unacceptable disparities and building a health care system that is
equitable and safe for Black families.  The inequities that Black
mothers face are not isolated incidents but, rather, the byproduct of
systemic racism in our society that has festered for far too long.  To
root it out, and improve health outcomes, we must address a broad range
of areas where unequal access persists along racial lines — including
access to health care, adequate nutrition and housing, toxin-free
environments, high-paying job sectors that provide paid leave, and
workplaces free from harassment and discrimination.  
  
That is why the American Rescue Plan gives States the opportunity to
provide 12 months of extended postpartum coverage to pregnant people
enrolled in Medicaid and the Children’s Health Insurance Program.  It is
also why I signed the Protecting Moms Who Served Act — part of the Black
Maternal Health “Momnibus” Act that Vice President Harris introduced
in the Senate — to address the maternal challenges that women veterans
face.  It is why Vice President Harris hosted the first-ever White House
Maternal Day of Action Summit and announced a nationwide call to action
to reduce maternal mortality and morbidity.  
  
To improve perinatal health outcomes and maternal health equity, the
Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services intends to propose the
first-ever hospital quality designation specifically focused on
maternity care.  In addition, the Substance Abuse and Mental Health
Services Administration recently accepted applications for the Services
Grant Program for Residential Treatment for Pregnant and Postpartum
Women — a program that provides pregnant and postpartum women and their
children with comprehensive substance use treatment and recovery support
services across residential and outpatient settings.  This year, the
program will also extend services to fathers, partners, and other family
members.  
  
In the year ahead, we must build on this work by further expanding
access to maternal care, lowering health care costs, and making new
investments to drive down mortality and improve maternal health.  We are
going to expand and diversify the maternal health workforce, improve
maternal mental health treatment, bolster community-based programs,
train providers, enhance research, and ensure that maternal care is
better coordinated.  This is more than just the right thing to do —
it is also a strategic imperative that makes all of us healthier and all
of us stronger.  When women — regardless of race — do not receive the
health care they need and deserve, it threatens the strength and
stability of our families, our communities, and our entire Nation.  
  
It is on all of us to ensure that no person’s race ever determines their
health outcomes and that every person preparing to give birth is treated
with dignity, safety, and respect in our health care system.  During
Black Maternal Health Week, we refocus on that effort and celebrate
America’s extraordinary maternal health care workforce — including
doulas and midwives, who offer crucial support for our Nation’s mothers
throughout pregnancy, childbirth, and postpartum and whose work is
essential to the health and well-being of all of our mothers
and children.  
  
NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim April 11 through
April 17, 2022, as Black Maternal Health Week.  I call upon all
Americans to raise awareness of the state of Black maternal health in
the United States by understanding the consequences of systemic
discrimination, recognizing the scope of this problem and the need for
urgent solutions, amplifying the voices and experiences of Black women,
families, and communities, and committing to building a world in which
Black women do not have to fear for their safety, their well-being,
their dignity, or their lives before, during, and after pregnancy.  
  
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
eighth day of April, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-two,
and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred
and forty-sixth.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
