---
date: '2022-04-05'
modified_time: 2022-04-05 15:03:22-04:00
published_time: 2022-04-05 15:03:21-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/04/05/executive-order-on-continuing-to-strengthen-americans-access-to-affordable-quality-health-coverage/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "Executive Order on Continuing to Strengthen Americans\u2019 Access to Affordable,\
  \ Quality Health\_Coverage"
---
 
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1.  Policy.  On January 28, 2021, I signed Executive Order 14009
(Strengthening Medicaid and the Affordable Care Act), establishing that
it is the policy of my Administration to protect and strengthen Medicaid
and the Affordable Care Act (ACA) and to make high-quality healthcare
accessible and affordable for every American.  It directs executive
departments and agencies (agencies) with authorities and
responsibilities related to Medicaid and the ACA to review existing
regulations, orders, guidance documents, policies, and any other similar
agency actions (collectively, agency actions) to determine whether such
agency actions are inconsistent with this policy.

Consistent with Executive Order 14009, agencies have taken numerous
actions to protect and strengthen Medicaid and the ACA, including:

(a)  facilitating the expansion of Medicaid in Missouri and Oklahoma to
individuals below 138 percent of the Federal poverty level, which is
projected to cover nearly half a million people;

(b)  extending Medicaid eligibility to new populations in order to allow
pregnant individuals to retain their Medicaid coverage for up to 1 year
postpartum, including through initiatives in Illinois, New Jersey,
Virginia, and Louisiana;

(c)  operating a Special Enrollment Period during 2021 that allowed 2.8
million Americans to newly enroll in coverage under the ACA;

(d)  extending the length of the HealthCare.gov Open Enrollment Period
by 1 month and operating the most successful Open Enrollment Period
ever, with a historic 14.5 million Americans enrolling in coverage
through the ACA Marketplaces and an additional 1 million people
enrolling in Basic Health Program coverage, resulting in a 20 percent
increase over the prior year across both programs combined;

(e)  increasing outreach and enrollment funding for organizations that
help Americans apply for ACA and Medicaid coverage, including
quadrupling the number of trained Navigators to more than 1,500 people
in States using HealthCare.gov;

(f)  lowering maximum out-of-pocket costs for consumers with employer
and ACA coverage by $400 in 2022;

(g)  reducing paperwork burdens for people enrolling in Medicaid and the
ACA by eliminating unnecessary documentation requirements;

(h)  allowing low-income Americans to enroll in affordable ACA coverage
year-round;

(i)  strengthening Medicaid and ACA section 1332 waiver policies to
partner with States to develop innovative coverage options, strengthen
benefits, and lower costs;

(j)  proposing rules that would better ensure comprehensive and
standardized coverage and improve the adequacy of ACA provider networks;
and

(k)  making efforts to improve the affordability of ACA coverage for
families by proposing rules to correct a regulatory gap that prevents
family members from accessing ACA subsidies despite very high premiums
for coverage through an employer.

On March 11, 2021, I signed into law the American Rescue Plan Act of
2021 (Public Law 117-2), which will further strengthen Medicaid and the
ACA in numerous ways, including by making ACA coverage more affordable
for 9 million Americans through enhanced ACA subsidies, incentivizing
States to adopt the ACA’s Medicaid expansion, making it easier for
States to extend postpartum Medicaid coverage, establishing new options
for States to establish mobile crisis intervention services teams to
help provide services to Medicaid beneficiaries experiencing a
behavioral health crisis, and increasing Medicaid funding for home- and
community-based services to strengthen and expand access to services for
millions of seniors and people with disabilities who need care as well
as to help States strengthen their programs.

My Administration has made significant progress in making healthcare
more affordable and accessible to millions of Americans.  From the end
of 2020 to September 2021, one in seven uninsured Americans gained
coverage, leaving the uninsured rate at nearly an all-time low.  Despite
this progress, nearly 4 million Americans continue to be locked out of
Medicaid expansion because they reside in 1 of the 12 States that have
failed to adopt the ACA’s Medicaid expansion.  In addition, millions
more continue to struggle to obtain the care they need, to go without
health coverage, or to be enrolled in coverage that is insufficient to
meet their needs.  The effects of being uninsured or underinsured can be
devastating financially, as families without access to affordable
coverage may accrue high levels of medical debt.

It remains the policy of my Administration to protect and strengthen
Medicaid and the ACA and to make high-quality healthcare accessible and
affordable for every American.  Agencies with authorities and
responsibilities related to Medicaid and the ACA are continuing their
review of existing agency actions under Executive Order 14009.

Sec. 2.  Agency Responsibilities.  In addition to taking the actions
directed pursuant to Executive Order 14009, agencies (as described in
section 3502(1) of title 44, United States Code, except for the agencies
described in section 3502(5) of title 44, United States Code) with
responsibilities related to Americans’ access to health coverage shall
review agency actions to identify ways to continue to expand the
availability of affordable health coverage, to improve the quality of
coverage, to strengthen benefits, and to help more Americans enroll in
quality health coverage.  As part of this review, the heads of such
agencies shall examine the following:

\(a\)  policies or practices that make it easier for all consumers to
enroll in and retain coverage, understand their coverage options, and
select appropriate coverage;

\(b\)  policies or practices that strengthen benefits and improve access
to healthcare providers;

\(c\)  policies or practices that improve the comprehensiveness of
coverage and protect consumers from low-quality coverage;

\(d\)  policies or practices that expand eligibility and lower costs for
coverage in the ACA Marketplaces, Medicaid, Medicare, and other
programs;

\(e\)  policies or practices that help improve linkages between the
healthcare system and other stakeholders to address health-related
needs; and

\(f\)  policies or practices that help reduce the burden of medical debt
on households.

Sec. 3.  General Provisions.  (a)  Nothing in this order shall be
construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i)   the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency,
or the head thereof; or

(ii)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law and
subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or
benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by
any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.

THE WHITE HOUSE,

    April 5, 2022.
