---
date: '2022-04-21'
modified_time: 2022-04-21 15:10:31-04:00
published_time: 2022-04-21 15:10:30-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/04/21/a-proclamation-on-earth-day-2022/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Earth Day,\_2022"
---
 
    Fifty-two years ago, millions of people gathered across our country
in a rally to protect our planet.  This collective action gave birth to
a new movement and spurred the creation of landmark environmental laws
that protect the air we breathe and the water we drink.  Today, we must
recapture that spirit and, as I said in my Inaugural Address, heed a cry
for survival that comes from the planet itself.   
  
     In their most recent report, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate
Change provided yet another round of evidence that climate change is no
longer in the distant future — it is here.  Last year, extreme weather
and climate disasters cost our communities $145 billion and claimed
hundreds of lives.  In the summer of 2021 alone, nearly 1 out of every 3
Americans experienced a weather disaster.  The climate crisis is
upending lives across the country and around the world.  Environmental
injustices continue to exact a toll on the health of communities of
color, low-income communities, and Tribal and Indigenous communities.  A
number of wildlife species in the United States and around the world are
facing an extinction crisis unparalleled in human
history.  The environmental challenges of our time call for historic
action, and we intend to meet the moment.   
  
     That is why my Administration has launched the most ambitious
environmental and climate agenda in history.  We have made the
bold commitment to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in the United States
by 50 to 52 percent by 2030, reach 100 percent carbon pollution-free
electricity by 2035, and achieve net zero emissions economy-wide by no
later than 2050.  To work toward these goals, we have taken action
across every sector of the economy, including setting the strongest-ever
standards for greenhouse gas emissions from passenger vehicles, tackling
super-pollutants like methane and hydrofluorocarbons, investing billions
in the deployment of clean technologies, and launching the American
offshore wind industry.   
  
     In addition, I was proud to start the “America the Beautiful”
initiative, our first-ever voluntary national conservation goal to
conserve 30 percent of America’s lands and waters by 2030.    
  
     The Bipartisan Infrastructure Law is a once-in-a-generation
opportunity to build on these actions and accelerate our Nation’s
ability to confront the environmental and climate challenges we
face.  It will allow us to remediate and reclaim abandoned mine lands
and oil wells leaking methane while putting Americans to work in good
paying jobs; invest in coastal wetlands and habitats that can protect
infrastructure and homes during storms; replace lead pipes that plague
underserved communities and remove dangerous chemicals from our drinking
water; restore watersheds and rivers; create fish passage to protect
iconic species, such as salmon; restore forests as carbon sinks; build
resilience to climate impacts including droughts, heat, floods, and
wildfires; and build a national network of electric vehicle charging
stations to accelerate our transition to electric mobility.    
  
     As my Administration implements this agenda, we are following
through on our commitment to ensuring that our investments advance
equity and justice and reach communities across the country — including
rural communities, communities of color, and low-income communities.  We
will be guided by the steadfast conviction of Earth Day founder Gaylord
Nelson, my friend and former colleague, that “every person has the
inalienable right to a decent environment,” including those who have
long been shut out of decisions that directly affect their lives and who
are most likely to bear the brunt of pollution and climate change.  
  
     The responsibility to confront the climate crisis is not solely on
the United States.  It requires leaders across the world committing to a
clean energy future.  On my first day in office, I fulfilled my promise
to rejoin our Nation to the Paris Agreement to tackle the climate crisis
at home and abroad.    
  
     For the future of our planet, for our health, and for our children
and grandchildren, we must act now.  Let us stand united in this effort
to save our planet and, in the process, strengthen our economy and grow
more connected to each other and the world we share.    
  
     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim April
22, 2022, as Earth Day.  I encourage all Americans to participate in
programs and activities that will deepen their understanding of
environmental protection, the urgency of climate change, and the need to
create a healthier, safer, more equitable future for all people.    
  
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-first
day of April, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-two, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
