---
date: '2022-04-29'
published_time: 2022-04-29 13:00:44-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/04/29/a-proclamation-on-national-hurricane-preparedness-week-2022/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Hurricane Preparedness Week,\_2022"
---
 
Each May, we raise awareness about the threat posed by hurricanes so
that Americans living in potentially affected areas are more prepared
for these powerful storms.  Over the last several years, hurricanes,
typhoons, and tropical storms have occurred with greater frequency and
intensity, causing tremendous destruction across the United
States.  From the Gulf Coast and Caribbean Territories to New England,
Hawaii, and the Pacific Territories, severe winds and flooding have cost
lives, damaged homes, and caused financial setbacks for families.
 During National Hurricane Preparedness Week, we recommit to improving
our Nation’s resilience to hurricanes and to stopping climate change
from exacerbating the impact of climate-related catastrophes in the
future.   
  
Last year was the third most active hurricane season — and one of the
costliest ever recorded in the Atlantic basin.  Hurricane Ida made
landfall in Louisiana and moved northeast, causing severe weather and
flooding across Pennsylvania and New York.  Hurricane Henri, the first
hurricane to hit the northeast in 30 years, killed more than a 100
people and caused billions of dollars in damages.  These and other
hurricanes devastated infrastructure, economies, and communities in
their path.  Hurricanes also take an emotional toll — especially on
low-income communities and communities of color, who are more likely to
live in areas that are vulnerable to climate and weather hazards.  I
witnessed the aftermath of these storms firsthand in Louisiana, New
Jersey, and New York as I walked with survivors through their devastated
communities.   
  
My Administration is committed not only to recovering and rebuilding in
the aftermath of these climate-related events but also to preparing for
them by strengthening the resiliency of our infrastructure and our
communities. That is why I was proud to sign the historic Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law last year. The Bipartisan Infrastructure Law includes
long-overdue investments in coastal resilience, advances our
understanding and forecasting of dangerous weather events, improves how
we communicate forecasts to the public, and enhances the resiliency of
underserved communities.  
  
In addition, I have proposed more than $18 billion for climate
resilience programs across the Federal Government in next year’s budget.
 Federal investments will also incorporate new flood standards so that
our communities are more resilient to flooding.  We are strengthening
Federal coordination on meteorological services.  We are working with
State and local governments to strengthen and adopt building codes so,
when disasters strike, buildings and the people in them are safer.   
  
But the Government cannot address hurricane and extreme weather
resilience alone — every individual and family living in a part of the
country that is threatened by these storms has an important role to
play.  Staying informed, making sure your insurance policies are up to
date, and having an emergency kit and plan ready are all important
preparation steps.  More information on how to prepare for hurricane
season is available on the Federal Emergency Management Agency’s
Ready.gov website.  
  
As we enter hurricane season, let us recommit to working together so
that we can save lives; reduce damage to our homes, communities, and
infrastructure; and recover more quickly when hurricanes and tropical
storms strike.   
  
NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim May 1 through May
7, 2022, as National Hurricane Preparedness Week.  I urge all Americans
to help build our climate-resilient Nation, so that individuals and
organizations are empowered to take action to make their communities
more resilient to weather disasters.  I call on our Federal, State,
Tribal, territorial, and local government agencies to share information
that will protect lives and property.  
  
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-ninth day of
April, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-two, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
