---
date: '2022-04-15'
published_time: 2022-04-15 10:56:30-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/04/15/a-proclamation-on-national-volunteer-week-2022/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Volunteer Week,\_2022"
---
 
Over the past year, we have seen that the American spirit of service is
alive and well.  Every day, Americans are giving their love and labor to
care for seniors, help communities rebuild after disasters, support
veterans and military families, tackle climate change, guide and mentor
our youth, serve and strengthen the democratic process, feed the hungry,
and keep communities healthy and safe.  Tens of millions of Americans
collectively volunteer billions of hours of their time each year.  This
commitment to service represents the best of who we are as Americans. 
During National Volunteer Week, we recognize the contributions that our
Nation’s volunteers make every day and encourage all Americans to
discover their path to making a difference.

     We also need to call on that spirit more than ever as we help our
Nation recover from the COVID-19 pandemic.  For example, we need
volunteers in education to help students get back on track, and I
encourage Americans to support our youth by serving as tutors and
mentors or in other critical roles. As we tackle the pandemic and so
many other challenges, government has a role to play, but our Nation is
stronger, more connected, and best prepared for the future when
government, nonprofits, community organizations, the private sector, and
the American people work together. 

     Volunteering also benefits the volunteers.  People who volunteer
develop new skills, build their personal and professional networks,
forge a deeper connection with their communities and service
organizations, and experience the joy of serving a larger cause.  The
opportunities to volunteer are seemingly limitless.  Students gain real
world experience, workers apply their skills to organizations that
benefit from their experience and often develop new skills in the
process, and older Americans improve their health and longevity.
 At every age and stage in life, volunteers experience the profound joy
of giving back.  

     Volunteerism is also a reinforcing cycle.  Volunteers are more
likely to become further involved in volunteer groups, participate in
civic organizations, attend public meetings, and lend a helping hand to
their neighbors.  Serving together in common purpose has the power to
unite us across the lines that sometimes divide.  As I pursue a unity
agenda in the Congress, volunteering serves as a unity agenda for our
national life.  

     Vice President Harris and I salute all of our fellow Americans who
take time to help others in need and the faith-based, nonprofit,
national service, military service, and community organizations that
make their service possible.  My Administration is committed to
encouraging and advancing volunteer service throughout our Nation and
the world.  Through AmeriCorps — a network of service programs across
our country that helps meet community needs — we are removing barriers
to service, expanding volunteer opportunities, and focusing on our
Nation’s toughest challenges.  AmeriCorps increased the living allowance
for national service members through funding from the American Rescue
Plan and is working with partners to recruit volunteers in underserved
communities so that service opportunities are more accessible.  To serve
communities abroad in their response and recovery efforts from the
pandemic, the Peace Corps has developed criteria and processes to return
volunteers around the world.  I encourage all Americans to learn how get
involved by visiting AmeriCorps.gov and peacecorps.gov/volunteer. 

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim April
17 through April 23, 2022, as National Volunteer Week.  I call upon all
Americans to observe this week by volunteering in service projects
across the country and pledging to make service a part of their daily
lives.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this

fifteenth day of April, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-two,
and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred
and forty-sixth.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
