---
date: '2022-04-29'
published_time: 2022-04-29 12:45:13-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/04/29/a-proclamation-on-loyalty-day-2022/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Loyalty Day,\_2022"
---
 
On Loyalty Day, we reaffirm our allegiance to the Nation we share and to
the principles of freedom, justice, equality, and dignity enshrined in
the Declaration of Independence and the United States Constitution.  
  
Our unity and common purpose as Americans — not hindered but
strengthened by our differences — is and has always been the source of
our limitless potential.  The weaving together of diverse cultures,
heritages, religions, backgrounds, and ideals across generations has
sparked our capacity to build the strongest, freest, and most prosperous
country the world has ever known.  And though we have not always fully
lived up to our founding promise of equality and justice for all, we
have never fully walked away from that promise either.  It is up to each
of us to heed the call of our Constitution — to do all that we can to
form a more perfect Union, coming together around the values and ideals
that make us one united people.  
  
Today, we salute the Americans whose hard work and sacrifice have
strengthened our Nation in common cause –including veterans who have
defended our country in uniform; abolitionists, suffragists, activists,
and advocates who have helped deliver the full promise of America to
more Americans; workers and entrepreneurs whose ingenuity and vision
have helped expand the possibilities of life in our Nation; and
countless others who have made America a beacon of hope for people
throughout the world.  
  
We also extend our deep and abiding gratitude to the members of our
Armed Forces, as well as to their families, caregivers, and survivors. 
We thank our dedicated educators for their essential work lifting up the
next generation of Americans, and we applaud our first responders and
other essential workers for their selflessness and determination every
day — especially throughout these past 2 years, as they have carried our
Nation on their backs.  May 1 is also International Workers’ Day — and
today, we honor the workers of every age and background who built this
country and who continue to help build a better America today.  Today
and every day, we are grateful to all of the workers who have organized
and fought to improve our Nation and create a fairer and more just
society for all.  
  
To celebrate our shared American spirit and the sacrifices so many of
our fellow citizens have made, the Congress, by Public Law 85-529, as
amended, has designated the first day of May each year as Loyalty Day. 
On this day, let us reaffirm our commitment to the values that bind us
together and honor all those who have defended our freedom and ideals.  
  
NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, do hereby proclaim May 1, 2022, as Loyalty Day.  This
Loyalty Day, I call upon the people of the United States to join in this
national observance, display the American flag, and pledge allegiance to
our Republic for which it stands.  
  
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-ninth day of
April, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-two, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.  
 

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
