---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2022-04-01'
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/04/01/a-proclamation-on-national-public-health-week-2022/
published_time: 2022-04-01 12:20:13-04:00
title: A Proclamation on National Public Health Week, 2022
---
 
Each year, National Public Health Week provides a chance for all of us
to come together to restore and strengthen the public health of our
Nation.  As we have seen so starkly over the past 2 years, public health
is essential to every part of our National life — not only to the safety
and well-being of our families and communities but also to our
prosperity.  This week, we celebrate the progress we have made to
revitalize our public health, recommit ourselves to the work that still
remains, and recognize all of the remarkable health care workers and
public health professionals whose extraordinary sacrifice and courage on
the front lines have carried our Nation through one of the most
difficult periods in our history.  
  
Thanks to our brave and dedicated public health and health care
workforce, the resilience of the American people, and our comprehensive
strategy to tackle COVID-19, our Nation is far better positioned today
than we were a year ago.  Vaccines and boosters have been proven to
offer the highest level of protection — and today, more than 250 million
Americans have stepped up to protect themselves and their communities by
getting at least one shot, saving more than a million American lives. 
We are ready with millions of antiviral treatments that reduce your
chance of ending up in the hospital by 90 percent.  We are continuing to
vaccinate the world, having sent over half a billion vaccine doses to
114 countries with more to come.   
  
My Administration has made hundreds of millions of tests available for
Americans to order directly to their homes for free.  We have
successfully reopened schools and businesses across the country, most
Americans can now go safely mask-free, and together we are moving
forward safely back to more normal routines.  We have positioned
ourselves well to detect and prepare for new variants and have more
tools to protect people than ever before — but making sure these tools
are readily available requires additional funding from the Congress.  We
urgently need the Congress to provide the funding we have requested to
maintain our preparedness against COVID-19 and ensure the American
people continue to have access to treatments, vaccines, and tests.  The
consequences of inaction are severe and immediate, and they will only
get more significant over time.  
  
While COVID-19 remains a top public health priority, we are committed to
a full range of efforts to improve the Nation’s general health, safety,
and resilience.  Last year, through the American Rescue Plan and other
actions, we expanded access to — and lowered the cost of — quality
health care for millions of Americans.  In addition, we made new
investments in mental health services; innovative health care
technologies; our public health and health care workforce; and maternal,
infant, and early childhood programs.  Through the Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law, we are also helping to address long-standing health
inequities that have burdened communities of color and low-income
neighborhoods for far too long.  Because of this law, we are beginning
to replace poisonous lead pipes so that every child, in every home and
school in America, finally has clean water to drink.  By making landmark
investments in public transit and delivering high-speed internet to
every single community in the country, we are also making health care
and telehealth services more accessible to each and every family.  
  
Of course, there is much more that we need to do to improve our public
health and build a better America.  As we continue our fight to defeat
the pandemic, we must also continue to expand health coverage and lower
the cost of health care for every family — including the cost of
prescription drugs like insulin.  We must make transformational
investments in our climate resilience and continue to address dangerous
environmental injustices that threaten public health and have hit
communities of color the hardest.  We must take commonsense steps to
address the public health epidemic of gun violence, which
disproportionately impacts Black Americans.  We must come together to
address the toll that the mental health epidemic takes on America’s
children, deliver the physical and mental health care that our veterans
and service members deserve, and make landmark investments to spark
breakthroughs in our fight against cancer, Alzheimer’s, diabetes, and
other diseases.  
  
During National Public Health Week, we recommit ourselves to reaching
these goals — to improve our public health and, in so doing, improve our
safety and security, our economic strength, the equity and fairness of
our Nation, and our quality of life.  Together, we share our
appreciation to all those who safeguard the Nation’s public health
through acts of service and those who seek to strengthen communities by
fostering equitable opportunities for all.  My Administration encourages
all Americans to do their part for public health — especially by getting
vaccinated and receiving a booster shot, if eligible.  It takes all of
us to preserve the health of our Nation, and together we are poised to
make tremendous progress to build a better, stronger, and healthier
America.  
  
NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim April 4 through
April 10, 2022, as National Public Health Week.  I call on all citizens,
government agencies, private businesses, non-profit organizations, and
other groups to take action to improve the health of our Nation.  
  
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this first day of April,
in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-two, and of the Independence
of the United States of America the two hundred and forty-sixth.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
