---
date: '2022-04-22'
modified_time: 2022-04-22 15:21:12-04:00
published_time: 2022-04-22 15:21:11-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/04/22/a-proclamation-on-days-of-remembrance-of-victims-of-the-holocaust-2022/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Days Of Remembrance Of Victims Of The Holocaust,\_2022"
---
 
On *Yom HaShoah*, Holocaust Remembrance Day, and throughout this week of
remembrance, we reflect on the horrors of the Holocaust when the Nazi
regime systematically murdered 6 million Jews and millions of other
innocents, including Roma, Sinti, Slavs, persons with disabilities,
LGBTQI+ individuals, political dissidents, and many others.  We stand
with Jewish people in the United States, Israel, and around the world in
grieving one of the darkest chapters in history.  We honor the memories
of the victims.  We embrace the survivors.  We commit to keeping alive
the promise of “never again.”

The world must never forget the truth of what happened across Europe
during the Holocaust or forget the horrific crimes and suffering the
Nazi regime inflicted on millions of innocent people.  Entire families
were wiped out.  Communities were shattered.  Survivors were left with
agonizing memories and fading tattoos etched into their skin by the
Nazis, reducing them to numbers.  It is forever recorded into the
history of mankind, and it is the shared responsibility of us all to
ensure that the *Shoah* is never erased from our collective memory —
especially as fewer and fewer survivors remain.  The truth must always
be known and shared with future generations in perpetuity.

I have taught my own children and grandchildren about the horrors of the
Holocaust, just as my father taught me.  I have taken my family to bear
witness to the darkness at the Dachau concentration camp so that they
could understand why we must always speak out against antisemitism and
hatred in all of its pernicious forms.  The legacy of the Holocaust must
always remind us that silence in the face of such bigotry is complicity.

Remembrance is our eternal duty, but remembrance without action risks
becoming an empty ritual.  As individuals, we must never be indifferent
to human cruelty and human suffering.  As nations, we must stand
together across the international community against antisemitism, which
is once again rearing its ugly head around the world.  We must combat
other forms of hatred and educate new generations about the Holocaust. 
We must reject those who try to deny the Holocaust or to distort its
history for their own ends.  We recognize that, just as the Holocaust
was an act of pure antisemitism, so too Holocaust denial is a form of
antisemitism.  We watch with dismay as the term “Nazi” is deployed to
make flawed historical parallels.  Efforts to minimize, distort, or blur
who the Nazis were and the genocide they perpetrated are a form of
Holocaust denial and, in addition to insulting both the victims and
survivors of the Holocaust, spread antisemitism.

My Administration has stepped up our efforts to counter all the ugly
forms antisemitism can take, including Holocaust denial and distortion. 
We co-sponsored a United Nations resolution that charged the
international community with combating Holocaust denial through
education.  We are partnering with the German government to improve
Holocaust education and counter Holocaust denial and distortion.  A
renowned scholar of the Holocaust and antisemitism, Deborah Lipstadt,
was recently confirmed as Special Envoy to Monitor and Combat
Antisemitism.

In addition to speaking out against the evils of antisemitism, I signed
— and my Administration continues to implement — legislation that gives
us more tools to combat crimes that are based on a victim’s actual or
perceived race, religion, national origin, sexual orientation, gender,
gender identity or disability.  We issued the first-ever National
Strategy for Countering Domestic Terrorism.  My Administration has
implemented increased funding for a program that helps threatened
nonprofits — including houses of worship and other religious affiliated
entities — to improve their safety and security.  On International
Holocaust Remembrance Day, I met with Bronia Brandman and the Vice
President met with Ruth Cohen — both Auschwitz survivors — at the White
House so we could bear witness to their stories, combat Holocaust denial
and distortion, and give life to the lessons of that most terrible
period in human history.

Those like Bronia and Ruth who survived the Holocaust and went on to
build new lives inspire our Nation and the world, and they are living
testaments to the enduring resilience of the human spirit.  It is the
responsibility of all of us to recognize the pain that they carry and to
support them by ensuring that the cruelty of the Holocaust is never
forgotten.  Today and every day, we stand against antisemitism and all
other forms of hate and continue our work to ensure that everyone can
live in a world that safeguards the fundamental human dignity of all
people.  

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim April 24 through
May 1, 2022, as a week of observance of the Days of Remembrance of
Victims of the Holocaust, and call upon the people of the United States
to observe this week and pause to remember victims and survivors of the
Holocaust.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-second day
of April, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-two, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
