---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2022-04-01'
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/04/01/a-proclamation-on-world-autism-awareness-day-2022/
published_time: 2022-04-01 12:17:25-04:00
title: A Proclamation on World Autism Awareness Day, 2022
---
 
On World Autism Awareness Day, we reaffirm our commitment to ensuring
that the more than 5 million Americans who live with autism are able to
make the most of their talents and participate fully in our society, and
we celebrate the contributions autistic Americans have made to our
families, our communities, our Nation, and the world.  
  
We have made significant progress in improving access to opportunity for
people with developmental disabilities in recent years.  However, many
autistic individuals still experience gaps in employment and income.
 The COVID-19 pandemic has compounded these inequities, creating unique
challenges and strains for people with autism and their families.  
  
That is why my Administration is committed to addressing the systemic
barriers people with autism face in their daily lives.  The pandemic
upended school routines for children and students living with
disabilities.  That is why the Department of Education is working
tirelessly to accelerate pandemic recovery for special education
programs.  In addition, the Department of Health and Human Services and
the Department of Housing and Urban Development are committed to
ensuring individuals with disabilities have access to affordable housing
as we come through this pandemic.  
  
In order to improve quality of life for people with autism and their
families in every community, my Administration is committed to funding
cutting-edge research to help us better understand, diagnose, and treat
autism, including funding research at the National Institutes of Health
and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention that seeks to better
understand the underlying mechanisms of autism from childhood through
early adulthood, improve methods of early identification and diagnosis,
and develop innovations in the delivery of interventions and services.  
  
My Administration remains committed to reducing barriers in access to
early diagnoses, interventions, and services for people with autism —
regardless of race, gender, ethnicity, culture, or geography — and to
incorporating the lived experiences of individuals with autism into
their research.  Last June, when I signed the Executive Order on
Diversity, Equity, Inclusion, and Accessibility in the Federal
Workforce, I promised to cultivate a Federal workforce that draws from
the full diversity of the Nation.  One of the ways we are delivering on
that promise is through a partnership between the Department of Labor
and the Administration for Community Living, which is expanding access
to competitive, integrated employment opportunities for people with
disabilities, including autism.  
  
In addition, my Administration will continue to build on the work done
by the Interagency Autism Coordinating Committee, the National Autism
Coordinator, and others to make certain that autistic Americans have
access to the care, services, and support they need, so they can pursue
their educational, career, and life interests without discrimination.  
  
Today and every day, we honor autistic people and celebrate the
meaningful and measureless ways they contribute to our Nation.  We
applaud the millions of educators, advocates, family members,
caregivers, and others who support them.  As we continue to build a
better America, we reaffirm our promise to provide Americans with autism
the support they need to live independently, fully participate in their
communities, and lead fulfilling lives of dignity and respect.  
  
NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim April 2, 2022, as
World Autism Awareness Day.  I call upon all Americans to learn more
about autism to improve early diagnosis, to learn more about the
experiences of autistic people from autistic people, and to build more
welcoming and inclusive communities to support people with autism.  
  
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this first day of April,
in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-two, and of the Independence
of the United States of America the two hundred and forty-sixth.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
