---
date: '2022-04-05'
modified_time: 2022-04-05 14:32:06-04:00
published_time: 2022-04-05 14:30:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/04/05/memorandum-on-addressing-the-long-term-effects-of-covid-19/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "Memorandum on Addressing the Long-Term Effects of\_COVID-\u206019"
---
 
MEMORANDUM FOR THE HEADS OF EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENTS AND AGENCIES

SUBJECT:      Addressing the Long-Term Effects of COVID-19 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered as follows:  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Section 1</span>.  <span
style="text-decoration: underline">Policy</span>.  My Administration has
made combating the coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) pandemic, and
guiding the Nation through the worst public health crisis in more than a
century, our top priority.  When I came into office, COVID-19 was
wreaking havoc on our country — closing our businesses, keeping our kids
out of school, and forcing us into isolation.  Today, America has the
tools to protect against COVID-19 and to dramatically decrease its
risks.  We move towards a future in which COVID-19 does not disrupt our
daily lives and is something we prevent, protect against, and treat.  
  
As we chart the path forward, we remember the more than 950,000 people
in the United States lost to COVID-19.  They were beloved parents,
grandparents, children, siblings, spouses, neighbors, and friends.  More
than 200,000 children in the United States have lost a parent or
caregiver to the disease.  Each soul is irreplaceable, and the families
and communities left behind are still reeling from profound loss.  Many
families and communities have already received support from Federal
programs that help with the loss they have experienced.  As we move
forward, we commit to ensuring that families and communities can access
these support programs and connect to resources they may need to help
with their healing, health, and well-being.  
  
At the same time, many of our family members, neighbors, and friends
continue to experience negative long-term effects of COVID-19.  Many
individuals report debilitating, long-lasting effects of having been
infected with COVID-19, often called “long COVID.”  These symptoms can
happen to anyone who has had COVID-19 — including individuals across
ages, races, genders, and ethnicities; individuals with or without
disabilities; individuals with or without underlying health conditions;
and individuals whether or not they had initial symptoms.  Individuals
experiencing long COVID report experiencing new or recurrent symptoms,
which can include anxiety and depression, fatigue, shortness of breath,
difficulty concentrating, heart palpitations, disordered sleep, chest
and joint pain, headaches, and other symptoms.  These symptoms can
persist long after the acute COVID-19 infection has resolved.  Even
young people and otherwise healthy people have reported long COVID
symptoms that last for many months.  These symptoms may be affecting
individuals’ ability to work, conduct daily activities, engage in
educational activities, and participate in their communities.  Our
world-class research and public health organizations have begun the
difficult work of understanding these new conditions, their causes, and
potential prevention and treatment options.  Our health care and support
programs are working to help meet the needs of individuals experiencing
the lasting effects of COVID-19.  To organize the Federal Government’s
response, executive departments and agencies (agencies) must work
together to use the expertise, resources, and benefit programs of the
Federal Government to ensure that we are accelerating scientific
progress and providing individuals with the support and services they
need.  
  
In addition, the American public is grappling with a mental health
crisis exacerbated by the pandemic. Too many have felt the effects of
social isolation, sickness, economic insecurity, increased caregiver
burdens, and grief.  My Administration has made significant investments
in mental health as well as substance use disorder prevention,
treatment, and recovery support for the American public, including by
expanding access to community-based behavioral health services.  We are
committed to advancing these behavioral health efforts in order to
better identify the effects of the pandemic on mental health, substance
use, and well-being, and to take steps to address these effects for the
people we serve.  
  
Our Nation can continue to protect the public — and spare countless
families from the deepest pain imaginable — if everybody does their
part.  Today, we have numerous tools to protect ourselves and our loved
ones from COVID-19 — from vaccines to tests, treatments, masks, and
more.  My Administration recognizes the toll of this pandemic on the
American public and commits to redoubling our efforts to support the
American people in addressing the long-term effects of COVID-19 on their
lives and on society.  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>. <span
style="text-decoration: underline">2</span>.  <span
style="text-decoration: underline">Organizing the Government-Wide
Response to the Long-Term Effects of COVID-19</span>.  (a)  The
Secretary of Health and Human Services (Secretary) shall coordinate the
Government-wide response to the long-term effects of COVID-19.  My
Administration will harness the full potential of the Federal
Government, in coordination with public- and private-sector partners, to
mount a full and effective response.  The Secretary shall report on the
coordination efforts to the Coordinator of the COVID-19 Response and
Counselor to the President and to the Assistant to the President for
Domestic Policy.  
  
     (b)  The heads of agencies shall assist and provide information to
the Secretary, consistent with applicable law, as may be necessary to
carry out the Secretary’s duties described in subsection (a) of this
section.  
  
     (c)  In performing the duties described in subsection (a) of this
section, the Secretary shall seek information from relevant
nongovernmental experts, organizations, and stakeholders, including
individuals affected directly by the long-term effects of COVID-19.  The
Secretary shall consider using all available legal authorities, as
appropriate and consistent with applicable law, to assist in gathering
relevant information, including a waiver under 42 U.S.C. 247d(f).  
  
<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>. <span
style="text-decoration: underline">3</span>.  <span
style="text-decoration: underline">Report on the Long-Term Effects of
COVID-19</span>.  The Secretary, supported within the Department of
Health and Human Services by the Assistant Secretary for Health and the
Assistant Secretary for Mental Health and Substance Use, shall publish a
public report within 120 days of the date of this memorandum outlining
services and mechanisms of support across agencies to assist the
American public in the face of the far-reaching and long-term effects of
COVID-19.  The report shall outline Federal Government services to
support individuals experiencing long COVID, individuals and families
experiencing a loss due to COVID-19, and all those grappling with mental
health and substance use issues in the wake of this pandemic.  The
report shall also specifically address the long-term effects of COVID-19
on underserved communities and efforts to address disparities in
availability and adoption of services and support for such communities.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>. <span
style="text-decoration: underline">4</span>.  <span
style="text-decoration: underline">National Research Action Plan on Long
COVID</span>.  (a)  Coordinated efforts across the public and private
sectors are needed to advance progress in prevention, diagnosis,
treatment, and provision of services for individuals experiencing long
COVID.  The Secretary, supported by the Assistant Secretary for Health
and in collaboration with the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of
Labor, the Secretary of Energy, and the Secretary of Veterans Affairs,
shall coordinate a Government-wide effort to develop the first-ever
interagency national research agenda on long COVID, to be reflected in a
National Research Action Plan.  The National Research Action Plan will
build on ongoing efforts across the Federal Government, including the
landmark RECOVER Initiative implemented by the National Institutes of
Health.  The Secretary shall release the jointly developed National
Research Action Plan within 120 days of the date of this memorandum.  
  
     (b)  The National Research Action Plan shall build upon existing
research efforts and include strategies to:  
  
          (i)     help measure and characterize long COVID in both
children and adults, including with respect to its frequency, severity,
duration, risk factors, and trends over time;  
  
          (ii)    support the development of estimates on prevalence and
incidence of long COVID disaggregated by demographic groups and
symptoms;  
  
          (iii)   better understand the epidemiology, course of illness,
risk factors, and vaccine effectiveness in prevention of long COVID;  
  
          (iv)    advance our understanding of the health and
socioeconomic burdens on individuals affected by long COVID, including
among different race and ethnicity groups, pregnant people, and those
with underlying disabilities;  
  
          (v)     foster development of new treatments and care models
for long COVID based on a better understanding of the pathophysiological
mechanisms of the SARS-CoV-2 virus;  
  
          (vi)    inform decisions related to high-quality support,
services, and interventions for long COVID;  
  
          (vii)   improve data-sharing between agencies and academic and
industry researchers about long COVID, to the extent permitted by law;
and  
  
          (viii)  specifically account for the pandemic’s effect on
underserved communities and rural populations.  
  
Sec. 5.  General Provisions.  (a)  Nothing in this memorandum shall be
construed to impair or otherwise affect:  
  
          (i)   the authority granted by law to an executive department
or agency, or the head thereof; or  
  
          (ii)  the functions of the Director of the Office of
Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or
legislative proposals.  
  
     (b)  This memorandum shall be implemented consistent with
applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.  
  
     (c)  This memorandum is not intended to, and does not, create any
right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in
equity by any party against the United States, its departments,
agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other
person.  
  
     (d)  The Secretary is authorized and directed to publish this
memorandum in the *Federal Register*.  
  

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
