---
date: '2022-04-21'
modified_time: 2022-04-21 10:44:01-04:00
published_time: 2022-04-21 10:44:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/04/21/a-proclamation-on-the-declaration-of-national-emergency-and-invocation-of-emergency-authority-relating-to-the-regulation-of-the-anchorage-and-movement-of-russian-affiliated-vessels-to-united-states-po/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on the Declaration of National Emergency and Invocation of\
  \ Emergency Authority Relating to the Regulation of the Anchorage and Movement of\
  \ Russian-Affiliated Vessels to United\_States\_Ports"
---
 
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, including the National Emergencies
Act (50 U.S.C. 1601 *et seq*.) and section 1 of title II of Public Law
65-24, ch. 30, June 15, 1917, as amended (Magnuson Act) (*46 U.S.C.
70051),* I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States of
America, hereby find and proclaim that:

The policies and actions of the Government of the Russian Federation to
continue the premeditated, unjustified, unprovoked, and brutal war
against Ukraine constitute a national emergency by reason of a
disturbance or threatened disturbance of international relations of the
United States.  In order to address this national emergency and secure
the observance of the rights and obligations of the United States, I
hereby authorize the Secretary of Homeland Security (Secretary) to make
and issue such rules and regulations as the Secretary may find
appropriate to regulate the anchorage and movement of Russian-affiliated
vessels, and delegate to the Secretary my authority to approve such
rules and regulations, as authorized by the Magnuson Act.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Section 1</span>.  I hereby
prohibit Russian-affiliated vessels from entering into United States
ports.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec. 2</span>.  The prohibition
of section 1 of this proclamation applies except:

     (a)  to Russian-affiliated vessels used in the transport of source
material, special nuclear material, and nuclear byproduct material for
which, and for such time as, the Secretary of Energy, in consultation
with the Secretary of State and the Secretary of Commerce, determines
that no viable source of supply is available that would not require
transport by Russian-affiliated vessels; and

     (b)  to Russian-affiliated vessels requesting only to enter United
States ports due to force majeure, solely to allow seafarers of any
nationality to disembark or embark for purposes of conducting crew
changes, emergency medical care, or for other humanitarian need.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec. 3</span>.  For the
purposes of this proclamation:

     (a)  the term “Russian-affiliated vessels” means:

          (i)    vessels of Russian registry (i.e., the vessel is
Russian flagged);

          (ii)   vessels that are Russian owned (i.e., the legal title
of ownership of the vessel that appears on the ship’s registration
documents is the Government of the Russian Federation or a Russian
company, citizen, or permanent resident); or

          (iii)  vessels that are Russian operated (i.e., a Russian
company, citizen, or permanent resident is responsible for the
commercial decisions concerning the employment of a ship and decides how
and where that asset is employed).

     (b)  the term “byproduct material” has the same meaning given to
that term in section 11(e) of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended
(AEA) (42 U.S.C. 2014(e)).

     (c)  the term “source material” has the same meaning given to that
term in section 11(z) of the AEA (42 U.S.C. 2014(z)).

     (d)  the term “special nuclear material” has the same meaning given
to that term in section 11(aa) of the AEA (42 U.S.C. 2014(aa)).

<span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec. 4</span>.  The prohibition
set forth in this proclamation shall be effective as of 12:01 a.m.
eastern daylight time on April 28, 2022, and shall be immediately
transmitted to the Congress and published in the *Federal Register*.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-first day of
April, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-two, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
