---
date: '2022-04-11'
modified_time: 2022-04-11 11:15:39-04:00
published_time: 2022-04-11 11:15:38-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/04/11/a-proclamation-on-education-and-sharing-day-usa-2022/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Education and Sharing Day, USA,\_2022"
---
 
As we work together to build a better America, we must remember that
education is the key to achieving greater opportunity, prosperity,
stability, and equality both here and around the world.  A high-quality
education develops the mind, opens the heart, nurtures our talents, and
fortifies our character.  Through education, we learn to recognize
ourselves in our neighbors and cherish the dignity of our shared human
experience.  No one understood this better than the man whose life and
legacy we celebrate on this day:  Rabbi Menachem Mendel Schneerson, the
Lubavitcher Rebbe and leader of the Chabad-Lubavitch movement.  

The Rebbe’s devotion to educating people worldwide and his profound
respect for diversity, inclusiveness, and equal justice have set a
strong example for generations of Americans and people across the
globe.  Having survived one of history’s cruelest chapters, the Rebbe
emerged determined to help heal the soul of humanity.  He left his mark
as a thinker, leader, and teacher who recognized the limitless potential
of every human being regardless of their background.  His outreach is
still felt today in countless houses of worship, centers of education,
cultural exchanges, and service communities worldwide.

The Rebbe’s work reminds us, in the words of the Prophet Amos, to “hate
evil, love good, and establish justice in the gate.”  We each share a
responsibility to live up to those words — in and out of the classroom —
and to plant the seeds of love, kindness, and empathy in the hearts and
minds of every child in America.  

To ensure that our children are provided every opportunity to learn and
grow, my Administration provided resources through the American Rescue
Plan for schools to safely reopen for in-person instruction.  Today,
thanks to our COVID-19 strategy and the resilience of local communities,
more than 99 percent of America’s schools are open again.  But if we are
truly going to build a better America, we must continue to make
transformational investments in education — including making
high-quality pre-school available to every 3- and 4-year old in America
and coming together to address the invisible toll on children’s mental
health that was exacerbated by the pandemic.

Today — on what would have been the Rebbe’s 120th birthday — let us
celebrate all the educators, advocates, and pioneers who teach young
people the lessons that create caring neighbors and closer
communities.  Let us commit to learning together, sharing the best we
have to offer, and working in unity for the common good. 

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim April
12, 2022, as Education and Sharing Day, USA.  I call upon all government
officials, educators, volunteers, and all the people of the United
States to observe this day with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and
activities.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this eleventh day of
April, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-two, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.                               

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
