---
date: '2022-04-29'
modified_time: 2022-04-29 12:47:48-04:00
published_time: 2022-04-29 12:47:47-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/04/29/a-proclamation-on-national-physical-fitness-and-sports-month-2022/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Physical Fitness and Sports Month,\_2022"
---
 
Throughout the pandemic, Americans have found creative ways to maintain
their physical fitness through sports or other forms of physical
activity.  During National Physical Fitness and Sports Month, we renew
our commitment to staying active and encourage all Americans to
participate in activities that improve their well-being and lead to
healthier lifestyles.  
  
Thanks to our dedicated health care professionals and millions of
Americans who have gotten vaccinated and boosted, schools, gyms, and
businesses across the country have reopened.  Stadiums are, once again,
filled with fans cheering on their favorite sports teams and athletes.  
  
But for the past few years, rates of physical activity have decreased —
especially among groups at high risk for COVID-19.  Socioeconomic
disparities, including a lack of opportunities to participate in sports
and fitness programs, have exacerbated the problem.  The environments
where people live, learn, work, and play also affect physical
activity.  Other barriers to regular physical activity, such as time,
money, safety, and accessibility, impact the health and well-being of
children and adults in every community.  We must seek out equitable
solutions to ensure that all Americans can live a more active, healthier
lifestyle.  
  
Fitness and sports are not only good for our physical health, they also
improve the quality of our lives overall.  Experts agree that even small
amounts of physical activity can make a significant difference in a
person’s physical and mental health.  For example, it can reduce the
risk of chronic diseases, blood pressure, and anxiety while improving
sleep — among other health benefits.  
  
Every sector has a role to play in removing barriers and increasing
opportunities for Americans to participate in physical activities.  That
is why I issued an Executive Order to renew the President’s Council on
Sports, Fitness & Nutrition, focusing on the importance of mental health
related to physical fitness and nutrition.  Through the Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention’s “Active People, Healthy Nation”
initiative, we are providing an evidence-based blueprint to help 27
million Americans become more physically active by 2027.  Additionally,
the Department of Health and Human Services’ “Move Your Way” campaign is
informing Americans about activities they can do to stay healthy through
the Physical Activity Guidelines for Americans.  
  
This month, let us all find ways to become more physically active in our
daily lives.  Take a walk, hike in your favorite park, try a new fitness
class, join a local sports team, or volunteer at a community
race. Whatever physical activity you choose, fitness will lead to better
and healthier lives for all Americans.  
  
NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim May 2022 as
National Physical Fitness and Sports Month.  I call upon the people of
the United States to make daily physical activity a priority, to support
efforts to increase access to sports opportunities in their communities,
and to pursue physical fitness as an essential part of healthy living.  
  
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-ninth day of
April, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-two, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.  

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
