---
date: '2022-04-29'
published_time: 2022-04-29 12:40:22-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/04/29/a-proclamation-on-older-americans-month-2022/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Older Americans Month,\_2022"
---
 
During Older Americans Month, we honor our Nation’s seniors and the
tremendous impact they have made in helping build a more perfect Union.
 Older Americans contribute their time and wisdom to make our
communities stronger, more informed, and better connected.  They are our
loved ones, friends, mentors, essential workers, volunteers, and
neighbors.  We celebrate their achievements and recommit to providing
our elders with the support and services they need to thrive and age
with dignity.  
  
Older adults have always been a vital source of strength and resilience
in America.  During the pandemic, many seniors came out of retirement to
serve their communities in health care and education roles, filling job
vacancies in critical shortage areas.  Moving forward, we must ensure
that older Americans have the appropriate resources to maintain their
independence and stay connected to their communities.  
  
My Administration is committed to keeping older Americans safe and
healthy as they age.  The American Rescue Plan allocated $1.4 billion to
providing older adults with services for nutrition, health promotion,
disease prevention, caregiver support, and long-term care.  It also
provided additional Medicaid funding to support millions of older adults
with disabilities and to help States improve the quality of caregiving
jobs.  My Administration is also dedicated to improving the safety and
quality of care in nursing homes — ensuring that they have sufficient
staff, that families have the necessary information to support their
loved ones, and that poorly performing nursing homes are held
accountable.  
  
This year, we celebrate the 50th anniversary of the Older Americans Act
Nutrition Program — the first Federal program to support the well-being
of older Americans through meal deliveries, nutrition services,
educational programs, and counseling.  We also celebrate the 10th
anniversary of the National Plan to Address Alzheimer’s Disease and
recommit to building upon this important work.  
  
During Older Americans Month, let us pay tribute to the seniors who
raised and guided us throughout our lives, and let us renew our
commitment to honoring their contributions by giving them the fullest
care, support, and respect they deserve.  
  
NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim May 2022 as Older
Americans Month.  This month and beyond, I call upon all Americans to
celebrate older adults for their contributions, support their
independence, and recognize their unparalleled value to our Nation.  
  
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-ninth day of
April, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-two, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.  
 

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
