---
date: '2022-04-08'
published_time: 2022-04-08 11:13:05-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/04/08/a-proclamation-on-pan-american-day-and-pan-american-week-2022/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Pan American Day And Pan American Week,\_2022"
---
 
On April 14, 1890, 18 nations of this hemisphere came together to form
the International Union of American Republics — the oldest regional
international organization in the world and the precursor to the
modern-day Organization of American States.  Today, the Organization of
American States consists of 35 independent States from North America,
Central America, South America, and the Caribbean and is dedicated to
the principles of advancing peace, prosperity, and democracy throughout
the Western Hemisphere.  On Pan American Day and during Pan American
Week, we recognize the strength of this regional community and celebrate
our unity and shared values.  

This year, as the United States prepares to host the Ninth Summit of the
Americas — my Administration reaffirms our commitment to collectively
addressing the challenges and opportunities we share with our regional
neighbors.  The theme of this year’s summit, “Building a Sustainable,
Resilient, and Equitable Future” focuses on working together with our
partners to produce better outcomes and strengthen our ability to
respond to critical issues that affect all our nations.  We need to
emerge from the pandemic and bolster global health security, build
strong and inclusive democracies, advance a joint approach to regional
migration management, ensure humanitarian protection, and root out the
corruption that reduces our ability to make progress.  We will seize
opportunities to address the climate crisis and accelerate the green
energy transition.  We will foster a transformation that will expand
access to digital technologies, support independent media and civil
society organizations, and ensure that economic growth is equitable
and inclusive.

My Administration’s Build Back Better World initiative will play an
important role in the Pan American region’s recovery from the economic
impact of the pandemic, promoting the highest labor, environmental,
social, and technical standards. In addition, our Call to Action, a
public-private partnership supporting long-term development in Central
America, will continue to generate private sector interest and build
upon its $1.2 billion investment in the region. 

It is in our economic and national security interest and the entire Pan
American region for our nations to advance a secure, economically
prosperous, healthy, and democratic hemisphere for all our people.  We
can reach that future if we unite around principled and democratic
leadership, anchored in the rule of law.  The people throughout the
region want governments that are accountable to voters and deliver real
benefits including jobs, education, security, equal opportunity, and
fundamental human and political rights.  Support for democracy and
respect for human rights is at the heart of all of the United States’
engagement with our neighbors throughout the Americas.  Twenty years
after approval of the Inter-American Democratic Charter — affirming a
collective commitment to strengthen democracy in the region — there is
more work to do to fortify democratic institutions and prevent
democratic backsliding in this hemisphere. 

We will continue to build on the commitments made at the 2021 Summit for
Democracy, in which 26 governments in the Western Hemisphere
participated, to forge a more inclusive and democratic future.  We will
work with hemispheric leaders — incorporating the recommendations of
diverse voices from youth, marginalized communities, the private sector,
independent media, and civil society — to fulfill our commitments and
drive our momentum forward. 

This is the time to take bold collective action to address our shared
challenges.  Climate change, the pandemic, repression, corruption, and
democratic backsliding have created migration and refugee flows
unequaled in the modern history of the region.  This is bigger than any
one country and any one border.  Coordinated regional efforts are
essential to respond to urgent humanitarian needs, provide legal
alternatives to irregular migration, address root causes, counter
corruption, and crack down on human smuggling networks that exploit the
most vulnerable.  As we approach the Summit of the Americas, our goal is
to chart a new regional approach to improve how we jointly manage
migration across the region for the coming decade. 

My Administration will continue to work tirelessly to address these and
other challenges, and to achieve our shared goals in the Pan American
region. 

During this Pan American Day and Pan American Week, we celebrate our
close ties and shared values with the region, and we come together in
the spirit of unity and optimism for a resilient, sustainable, and
equitable future for all people of the Americas.  

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim April 14, 2022, as
Pan American Day and April 10 through April 16, 2022, as Pan American
Week.  I urge the Governors of the 50 States, the Governor of the
Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and the officials of the other areas under
the flag of the United States of America to honor these observances
with appropriate ceremonies and activities.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this eighth day of
April, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-two, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
