---
date: '2022-04-29'
modified_time: 2022-04-29 12:52:31-04:00
published_time: 2022-04-29 12:52:30-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/04/29/a-proclamation-on-national-mental-health-awareness-month-2022/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Mental Health Awareness Month,\_2022"
---
 
Each May we raise awareness about the importance of mental health and
its impact on the well-being of all Americans, including children,
adults, families, and communities across our Nation.  We also give
thanks to the dedicated mental health providers whose service and
support improve the lives of so many Americans.  We stand in solidarity
with those who are experiencing mental health conditions, renewing our
commitment to providing them with the support they need and deserve.   
  
Even before the pandemic, millions of Americans were experiencing
stress, trauma, anxiety, and heightened levels of depression.  The
COVID-19 pandemic exacerbated those conditions, creating an
unprecedented mental health crisis across our country. Communities of
color, frontline workers, health care workers, and individuals with
eating disorders have been disproportionately impacted, and the rate of
depression across the country has more than tripled compared to rates in
2019.  
  
Mental health challenges among our youth have also been particularly
acute due to disruptions in routines, increased social isolation, and
learning loss.  Research has shown that social media plays a central
role in increasing mental health challenges among young people —
especially young women.  Emergency department visits for attempted
suicide among girls in 2021 increased by more than 50 percent compared
to 2020.  American Indians, Alaska Natives, Black youth, and LGBTQI+
youth also face a disproportionate risk of suicide.  
  
Despite these disturbing trends, less than half of Americans struggling
with mental illness receive the treatment they need — even fewer within
Black and Brown communities. A variety of factors contribute to this
problem. For example, too many communities lack sufficient numbers of
mental health providers.  Even where there are enough mental health
providers, our fragmentated system makes it difficult for people to
access them.  Tragically, too, many Americans feel ashamed to reach out
for help, or are stigmatized for seeking care.  
  
My Administration is committed to transforming mental health care for
all Americans. The American Rescue Plan laid the groundwork for this
effort, investing nearly $5.5 billion nationwide to strengthen mental
health and substance use care. It also invested billions of dollars in
our Nation’s schools, including mental health treatment for students and
staff.  
  
But far more needs to be done. That is why in this year’s State of the
Union Address, I outlined my vision for bolder investments to address
our national mental health crisis. My strategy includes actions that
will broaden the pipeline of behavioral health professionals in areas of
greatest need, integrate mental health and substance use treatment into
primary care, and expand access through more virtual care options.  
  
In addition, last year the Surgeon General released an Advisory on
Protecting Youth Mental Health that underscored the growing harms of
digital technologies — especially social media — on the mental health of
our youth.  It is time to strengthen privacy protections, ban targeted
advertising to children, and demand that technology companies stop
collecting the personal data of our children.  We must also continue
researching the impact of social media on the mental health of our
children, expand services in school to promote their well-being, and set
them up for success so they can thrive as adults.  
  
As my Administration works to expand suicide prevention and strengthen
crisis care infrastructure within our communities, those who need
immediate assistance can call the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline
at 1-800-273-TALK — which will transition to a simple three-digit
number, 988, in July.  
Each of us has an important role to play in supporting our fellow
Americans who are living with mental health conditions.  Learn the
warning signs of emotional distress and suicide.  Engage affected loved
ones in supportive dialogue.  Fight the prejudice and negative attitudes
that discourages those in need from seeking mental health support.
 Above all, let us collectively ensure that all children and adults
experiencing mental health challenges are treated with the compassion,
respect, and understanding they deserve.  
  
NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim May 2022 as
National Mental Health Awareness Month.  I call upon citizens,
government agencies, private businesses, non-profit organizations, and
other groups to join in activities and take action to strengthen the
mental health of our communities and our Nation.  
  
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-ninth day of
April, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-two, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.

                                 JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
