---
date: '2025-07-28'
modified_time: 2025-07-28 06:15:50-04:00
published_time: 2025-07-28 06:15:49-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefings-statements/2025/07/presidential-message-on-national-korean-war-veterans-armistice-day/
tags: briefings-statements
title: Presidential Message on National Korean War Veterans Armistice Day
---
 
Beginning just days after the first shots of the Korean War, in the
summer of 1950, nearly 2 million Americans embarked on a daring crusade
across the Pacific to halt the spread of communism in Asia and restore
dignity and independence to the people of South Korea.  This National
Korean War Veterans Armistice Day, we pay tribute to every American hero
who ventured to unfamiliar lands to face some of the most gruesome
combat in the history of our country—and we renew our resolve that
forces of freedom will always prevail over tyranny and oppression.

Just 5 years after the end of World War II, what is today known as the
“Forgotten War” began on June 25, 1950, when the North Korean People’s
Army crossed the 38th parallel in a full-scale invasion of South Korea. 
In response, legions of American troops were commissioned to repel
communist aggression on the Korean Peninsula, defend our national
interests, and maintain America’s status as communism’s most formidable
enemy in the Western world—leading to more than 3 years of brutal and
relentless warfare.

Starting that June, American soldiers endured 38 months of unimaginable
horrors and merciless conditions against North Korean and Chinese
combatants prepared to fight to the death.  From Heartbreak Ridge to
Pork Chop Hill to the Chosin Reservoir, United States service members
withstood incessant waves of attacks, treacherous terrain, frigid
winters, and oppressive heat—culminating in one of the bloodiest wars in
human history.  In the end, the cost was staggering.  More than 32,000
Americans perished in combat, nearly 93,000 were wounded, and thousands
more were captured or missing in action.

Yet, on July 27, 1953, the grit, resolve, and indominable spirit of our
warfighters won the day when the United Nations, North Korea, and China
signed the Korean Armistice Agreement, establishing a ceasefire and
dealing a crippling blow to the communist movement.

More than seven decades after the armistice was signed at Panmunjom, a
demarcation line separating North and South Korea remains at the
demilitarized zone on the 38th parallel.  During my first term in
office, I was proud to become the first sitting President to cross this
demilitarized zone into North Korea.  My first Administration also
maintained a maximum pressure campaign and enforced sanctions on North
Korea to negotiate denuclearization, the release of American hostages,
and the return of the remains of American heroes.

Although the evils of communism still persist in Asia, American and
South Korean forces remain united in an ironclad alliance to this day. 
Guided by my Administration’s foreign policy of peace through strength,
we remain steadfastly committed to safeguarding the Korean Peninsula and
working together for the noble causes of safety, stability, prosperity,
and peace.

This National Korean War Veterans Armistice Day, we honor the patriots
who fought and died in Korea so that freedom might endure both on our
land and beyond our shores.  We vow to rebuild our military, support our
veterans, and stand strong against forces of tyranny.  Above all, we
proudly remember every American hero who shed their blood to defend our
home, our heritage, and our glorious way of life.  Their valiant legacy
will never be forgotten.
