---
date: '2025-07-05'
modified_time: 2025-07-06 08:11:49-04:00
published_time: 2025-07-05 13:40:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefings-statements/2025/07/presidential-message-on-the-211th-anniversary-of-the-battle-of-chippawa/
tags: briefings-statements
title: Presidential Message on the 211th Anniversary of the Battle of Chippawa
---
 
On July 5, 1814, on the plains of Chippawa, near the shores of Lake
Ontario, the United States left its adolescence as a nation, and took
its place among the great powers of the world, with a stirring victory
over the British Army.  At the Battle of Chippawa, a seminal battle in
the War of 1812, the true might of the United States Army was revealed
in full glory in a victory that rekindled American pride and respect for
the Army, and foreshadowed the rise of the United States as the greatest
military power that the world has ever seen.

When the first shots of the War of 1812 were fired, the United States
Army was outmatched and underprepared to fight the then-greatest power
in the world, Great Britain.  To reform our Nation’s military, Secretary
of War John Armstrong Jr. established “Camps of Instruction” in New York
to instill readiness and discipline in his troops.  Guided by strong
military leadership and rigorous training from the likes of General
Winfield Scott and General Jacob Brown, the United States Army was
transformed from ragtag regiments into a finely-honed professional
force—changing the course of the war and paving the path to unrivaled
American military dominance.

On the morning of July 5, 1814, the British launched a surprise attack
in Chippawa along the Niagara River in Ontario, Canada.  General Scott’s
brigade of regulars wore the gray uniforms of American militiamen,
leading the British to believe that they were facing undisciplined
troops who would quickly retreat, unable to match British battlefield
prowess honed over years of conflict in the Napoleonic Wars.  And yet,
as the two armies exchanged volley after volley of musket fire and
artillery barrages, the intrepid American Soldiers were the ones who
heroically held the line, and it was the British who were forced into an
embarrassing retreat.  Recognizing his grave error, the British General
Phineas Riall famously cried out, “Those are regulars, by God!”

That day, the American Army decisively defeated the enemy, protected the
American homeland, and inspired a new wave of unity, patriotism, and
urgently-needed military morale in our war-weary nation.  America’s
resounding victory at Chippawa will forever be remembered as the moment
that the United States Army took its place among the great armies of the
world, and showed itself to be capable of defeating any threat to the
safety and security of the great American nation.

As we commemorate this epic battle, we honor the memory of the valiant
warriors who fought and died to defend the sovereignty of our young
Republic.  To this day, the proud legacy of the Battle of Chippawa
endures in every Soldier who proudly wears the uniform of the United
States of America.
