---
date: '2025-07-31'
modified_time: 2025-08-01 10:22:55-04:00
published_time: 2025-07-31 17:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefings-statements/2025/07/the-white-house-announces-restoration-of-the-presidential-fitness-test-and-revitalization-of-the-presidents-council-on-sports-fitness-nutrition/
tags: briefings-statements
title: "The White House Announces Restoration of the Presidential Fitness Test and\
  \ Revitalization of the President\u2019s Council on Sports, Fitness & Nutrition"
---
 
WASHINGTON, D.C. — Today, President Donald J. Trump signed an Executive
Order restoring two iconic pillars of American youth: the Presidential
Fitness Test and the President’s Council on Sports, Fitness & Nutrition.
This historic action underscores the Administration’s commitment to
ending the childhood chronic disease epidemic and ensuring the strength,
vitality, and excellence of future generations of Americans.

President Trump was joined by Vice President JD Vance, Health and Human
Services Secretary Robert F. Kennedy, Jr., as well as legendary American
athletes including golfing greats Bryson DeChambeau and Annika
Sörenstam, National Football Association icon Lawrence Taylor, Kansas
City Chiefs kicker Harrison Butker, and wrestler Triple H.

With this Executive Order, President Trump is bringing back a
time-honored tradition that inspired millions of American children to
strive for their best—physically, mentally, and civically. The
Presidential Fitness Test, which will be administered by Secretary
Kennedy, reestablishes a gold standard for youth physical fitness across
the United States.

“We are building a nation of strong, proud, and unstoppable young
Americans. The Presidential Fitness Test is not just about physical
strength—it’s about character, competition, and confidence,” President
Trump said. “Together, we are making fitness fun, competitive, and cool
again.”

The revitalized President’s Council on Sports, Fitness & Nutrition will
create school-based programs that reward excellence in physical
education and support the development of a Presidential Fitness Award.
By working in close partnership with athletes, coaches, sports teams,
and schools nationwide, the Council will champion access to fitness and
healthy living for all Americans.

President Trump also announced that the Council will play an important
role in helping to restore tradition to college sports, including
reforming the broken transfer portal and keeping men out of women’s
sports.

The Trump Administration is laying the groundwork for an American sports
renaissance. Thanks to the efforts of President Trump, the United States
in the next three years will host the Ryder Cup, the President’s Cup,
the FIFA World Cup, and the Olympic Games. The year 2026 will also mark
the 250th anniversary of the America’s founding and the 70th anniversary
of the original President’s Council on Youth Fitness.

“This is a movement about discipline, strength, and excellence,” said
President Trump. “The more we empower our kids to push harder, reach
higher, and strive together, the more we secure America’s greatness for
generations to come.”

For more information about the Executive Order and the President’s
Council on Sports, Fitness & Nutrition, visit whitehouse.gov.
