---
date: '2025-07-04'
modified_time: 2025-07-04 11:51:54-04:00
published_time: 2025-07-04 11:51:53-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefings-statements/2025/07/presidential-message-on-the-249th-anniversary-of-the-adoption-of-the-declaration-of-independence/
tags: briefings-statements
title: Presidential Message on the 249th Anniversary of the Adoption of the Declaration
  of Independence
---
 
On July 4, 1776, the cause of American liberty was enshrined in ink when
56 patriots gathered in what is now known as Independence Hall in
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, to sign the Declaration of Independence.
They enshrined a divine truth that changed the world forever when they
declared, “all men are created equal.”

As we honor 249 glorious years of American independence, we celebrate
these rights upon which our nation was built—and we pay tribute to the
titans of freedom who risked their lives, fortunes, and sacred honor to
secure our sovereignty.

In June 1776, Thomas Jefferson began drafting what would later become
one of the core foundational documents of the United States.  After 17
days of writing and several days of deliberations, revisions, and
scrutiny over every line and every phrase, on July 4, 1776, Jefferson
and his fellow signatories formally adopted the Declaration of
Independence.

Though the consequences of their actions were far from certain, the
Second Continental Congress pressed forward with fierce determination,
clarity of purpose, and an unshakable faith in God’s divine providence. 
Our Founding Fathers boldly proclaimed “We hold these truths to be
self-evident, that all men are created equal, that they are endowed by
their Creator with certain unalienable Rights, that among these are
Life, Liberty and the pursuit of Happiness.”

To this day, these words give life to our Republic, stir the hearts of
every citizen, and animate our way of life.  The Declaration of
Independence was not just a statement of political protest but a
revolution in moral and political thought.  For nearly two-and-a-half
centuries, there has been no greater barrier to tyranny and oppression
than these mighty words, rooted in “the Laws of Nature and of Nature’s
God.”

As we approach 250 years of independence, one year from today, my
Administration continues to work tirelessly to revive our sovereignty,
restore our strength, and reclaim the sacred ideals articulated in the
Declaration of Independence.  Today, we summon the courage of every
legend of liberty who bravely signed his name to the Declaration of
Independence 249 years ago—and we invoke the spirit of 1776 to propel
our Nation into a new era of restoration, renewal, confidence, and
strength.
