---
date: '2022-03-28'
modified_time: 2022-03-28 11:12:52-04:00
published_time: 2022-03-28 11:12:51-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/blog/2022/03/28/taking-on-gun-crime-and-violence-with-a-whole-of-government-approach/
tags: blog
title: "Taking on Gun Crime and Violence with a Whole-of-Government\_Approach"
---
 
In his State of the Union
[address](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2022/03/02/remarks-by-president-biden-in-state-of-the-union-address/)
earlier this month, President Biden highlighted his comprehensive
strategy to reduce gun violence. He emphasized the $350 billion in
American Rescue Plan funds that we’ve made available for cities,
counties, and states that enable them to hire more police and invest in
proven strategies like community violence intervention. He talked about
our efforts to crack down on difficult-to-trace “ghost guns,” part of an
aggressive array of executive actions to reduce gun violence, taking
more steps than any other Administration in its first year. And he
repeated his call for Congress to take further action tackle the gun
violence epidemic that continues to take more than 100 lives each day.

We have made strong progress by rolling out and executing on the
President’s comprehensive gun crime reduction strategy. This strategy
contains five key components:

-   Stemming the flow of firearms used to commit violence,
-   Supporting local law enforcement with federal tools and resources to
    put more cops on the beat and address violent crime
-   Investing in evidence-based community violence interventions
-   Expanding summer programming, employment opportunities, and other
    services and supports for teenagers and young adults to give them
    pathways away from crime
-   Helping formerly incarcerated individuals successfully reenter their
    communities instead of re-offending.

You can read a full summary of the progress we’ve made
[here](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/03/01/fact-sheet-president-bidens-historic-actions-to-make-our-communities-safer-by-reducing-gun-crime/).
We are pulling all of the levers of the federal government to address
this crisis. For example:

-   The President secured a bipartisan investment in fighting gun crime,
    including a new $50 million initiative to expand community violence
    interventions, additional funding for community policing, and the
    resources the Bureau of Alcohol Tobacco and Firearms (ATF) needs to
    continue to enforce our existing gun laws.
-   The Administration made American Rescue Plan funds available for
    fighting gun crime, and cities and states across the country have
    taken up this opportunity.
-   The Justice Department is taking regulatory action to rein in the
    proliferation of “ghost guns”—unserialized, homemade firearms that
    are difficult for law enforcement to trace.
-   The Justice Department launched five new law enforcement strike
    forces focused on addressing firearms trafficking, including on the
    “Iron Pipeline” – the illegal flow of guns sold in the south,
    transported up the East Coast, and found at crime scenes from
    Baltimore to New York City.
-   In part due to action by the U.S. Department of Health and Human
    Services, Connecticut and Illinois enacted legislation that allows
    Medicaid to reimburse providers for hospital-based gun violence
    prevention services.

That progress is made possible by the dedicated gun violence prevention
team we have at the White House, working to combat gun violence—every
day, from every angle. Under the leadership of Domestic Policy Advisor
Susan Rice, I coordinate the White House’s gun violence work. The
solutions to gun violence are interdisciplinary, which is why we have
built a multi-faceted, 12-person team of experts here in the heart of
the Domestic Policy Council who have teamed up to drive forward our gun
violence reduction agenda.

**Chiraag Bains** (Deputy Assistant to the President for Racial Justice
and Equity), **Vanessa Chen** (Special Assistant to the President for
Criminal Justice and Guns), and **Stephonn Alcorn** (Associate Director
for Racial Justice and Equity) all bring their expertise in criminal
justice reform and racial justice to help guide our work to expand
community violence interventions. I work side by side with this team,
along with **Erin Murphy** (Senior Policy Advisor for Criminal Justice),
on broader issues related to public safety that often intersect with gun
violence.

Vanessa leads our interagency policy council on school safety, working
closely with **Mo-Tracey Mooney**, Special Assistant to the President
for Education and the Domestic Policy Council’s expert on K-12
education.

We’re also fortunate to have **Terri Tanielian** (Special Assistant to
the President for Veterans Affairs), who specializes in veteran issues,
mental health, and suicide prevention, supporting our work on reducing
access to lethal means through methods such as safe storage.

And, **Pronita Gupta** (Special Assistant to the President for Labor and
Workers), ensures that job training and job opportunities for young
adults and formerly incarcerated individuals are a core component of our
comprehensive approach to reducing gun crime.

**Jessica Schubel**, Director for the Affordable Care Act and Health
Care, contributes her expertise in utilizing Medicaid and private
insurance to support violence intervention programs.

**Priya Singh,** Deputy Chief of Staff and Senior Policy Analyst, and
**Clarence Wardell**, Senior Advisor for Delivery, specialize in
bridging the gap between policy and people, including making sure that
our investments in community violence intervention are having an impact
on the ground.

Last but not least, **Erin Pelton**, Special Assistant to the President
and Chief of Staff for the Domestic Policy Council, helps shape our
legislative, public engagement, and intergovernmental affairs
strategies.

All of us on the Domestic Policy Council work closely with our
colleagues in the **White House Counsel’s Office**, the **Office of
Public Engagement**, the **Office of Legislative Affairs**, and the
**Office of Intergovernmental Affairs**. And each of us coordinates with
our counterparts in key agencies across government, from the Department
of Justice to the Department of Education to the Department of Veterans
Affairs. Together, we convene multi-agency meetings to coordinate on a
specific goal, hold one-on-one meetings to drive the work of a
particular agency, and meet with gun violence survivors and experts, as
well as state and local policymakers.

The strength of this integrated approach is that it enables us to see
*across* issue areas, and avoid the silos that too often stymie
progress. When the President’s top advisors were hammering out the
details of his Build Back Better Agenda, our team ensured that it
included a historic $5 billion across the Department of Justice and
Department of Health and Human Services to invest in community violence
intervention. When workforce training was on the agenda, we were able to
work with the Department of Labor to prioritize employment for formerly
incarcerated individuals to reduce recidivism. After Medicaid policy
advisors at the White House and the Department of Health and Human
Services briefed states on how Medicaid funds could be used to reimburse
CVI programs, Connecticut and Illinois became the first two states to
adopt this promising approach. Policymakers often talk about taking a
“whole-of-government” approach to an issue. This is what a
whole-of-government effort truly looks like in practice.

Driven by President Biden’s career-long commitment to combating gun
violence, and guided every day by the President’s top advisor on
domestic policy, our team is able to combine a deep focus on this issue
with the ability to deliver on it across the White House and the
Administration as a whole. That’s how we’ve been able to carry out a
comprehensive gun crime reduction strategy that’s done more through
executive action than any President in their first year in history, and
how we’ve backed it up with historic amounts of funding for cities and
states to make their communities safer. And that’s also how we’ve
continued to amplify the voices of survivors and advocates and elevate
them with the President’s bully pulpit – from the halls of Congress to
the Rose Garden – the vital need for Congress to act on common sense gun
violence prevention measures.

As the President acknowledged in his State of the Union remarks, there
is much more to do, which is why this team wakes up every day eager to
advance this essential work. The President will continue to implement
his comprehensive gun crime reduction strategy. Just as he did in his
State of the Union Address, he will continue to call on Congress to
takes steps that cannot be achieved through executive action and do not
violate the Second Amendment – like universal background checks, a ban
on assault weapons with high-capacity magazines, and repeal of the
liability shield for gun manufacturers and dealers. He will continue to
increase investments in community policing and community violence
interventions. And we will help him get the job done in order to save
lives.

*Stefanie Feldman is Deputy Assistant to the President and Senior
Advisor to the Domestic Policy Advisor*
