---
date: '2023-05-02'
published_time: 2023-05-02 08:32:41-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/05/02/remarks-by-homeland-security-advisor-dr-liz-sherwood-randall-to-the-anti-defamation-league/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Homeland Security Advisor Dr. Liz Sherwood-Randall to the Anti-Defamation\_\
  League"
---
 
*As Prepared For Delivery:*

Good morning. It’s my honor to be here with each of you today.  When
Jonathan asked if I would give keynote remarks at this gathering, I
eagerly agreed – because of the vital mission of this organization, the
partnership that we have built in the Biden Administration, and the
urgent issues facing our community. 

Jonathan’s vision and innovation are defining what it means to lead an
international civil rights organization in these very challenging times.

As President Biden’s Homeland Security Advisor – a West Wing role
created just after 9/11 –it’s my job to deal with the threat to our
homeland that antisemitism represents.  But for me, it’s also personal. 

My great-grandparents fled oppression in Eastern Europe to build a new
life in America where they could practice their faith without fear and
seek opportunities denied to them in their homelands because they were
Jewish. 

Still, my mother was chased home from elementary school in Omaha as a
little Jewish girl. Her family moved West to seek a more open-minded and
tolerant place.  She met my father in high school in Los Angeles, where
they subsequently married at Wilshire Boulevard Temple.

At that time, my father was considering entry level job offers from
several law firms after finishing Harvard Law School and a Supreme Court
clerkship.  One offer was from the most esteemed, blue-chip firm in the
community, which had no track record of making Jews partners. 

Another was from a firm established by Jewish leaders that welcomed
young lawyers of Jewish faith into very successful practices.  When my
father was trying to choose between the two, his peers at the Jewish
firm reached out and implored him not to accept their offer and instead
go to the place where he would blaze a new trail for others to follow.

That story was told to me to emphasize the need to build bridges rather
than walls to the greatest degree possible – to be integrated rather
than segregated, to know the other and to have the other know us –
across faiths and races.

My father experienced anti-Semitic discrimination long into adulthood. 
But he chose repeatedly, just like with his choice of a law firm, to
build bridges from the Jewish community to other groups confronting
discrimination and hate, including the Black and Asian communities in
Southern California and beyond.  

As Martin Luther King said, “The ultimate tragedy is not the oppression
and cruelty by the bad people — but the silence over that by the good
people.”

Or, as we say in our faith, it is our obligation to do “tikkun olam”. 
We <span style="text-decoration: underline">must</span> use our lives to
heal a broken world.

I take that imperative seriously. I know you do, too. And every day, I
see how what is broken seems even more jagged than it used to be.

Ethnic and religious hatred is being normalized in our melting pot.
Antisemitism is being normalized – its more mainstream, it’s out in the
open. And, most disturbingly, violence against Jews is being normalized.

Jews are being targeted in their neighborhoods, synagogues, schools,
homes, and online. By whatever measure you choose to employ, we have not
seen this level of hatred towards Jews since Europe before the second
world war. 

For example, last month the ADL’s annual audit reported that 2022
represented a **<u>34% increase in antisemitic</u>** incidents in the
U.S. over the previous year—the highest number recorded since ADL began
tracking these incidents in 1979.

To say this is concerning is a profound understatement.

So it was with urgency that President Biden charged us with crafting
this country’s **<u>first-ever National Strategy for Countering Domestic
Terrorism.  </u>**We started this work on literally the first day of the
Administration. Then, as part of that larger effort, we embarked on the
first National Strategy to Counter Antisemitism specifically.

We expect to complete this work by the end of May.  The White House
Domestic Policy Council Director Susan Rice, my co-chair in in this
vital work, will speak more about the strategy later today.

Among its many initiatives is the one that to me is most urgently
needed—the restoration of safety for Jews in our country.

And that goal means working in partnership with you, to address three
pressing issues simultaneously. 

**First, we will continue to improve the security of synagogues and
Jewish institutions.**

The Biden Administration has **<u>expanded security assistance for
houses of worship</u>** and religious institutions – for example,
increasing the funds to improve physical security of buildings from 180
million dollars two years ago to 305 million dollars today. And we have
asked Congress to continue to increase these funds.

We’re also sharing more information with law enforcement and community
allies, creating partnerships between them, and training congregations
to confront threats.

We saw how this work can make a difference in January of 2022 in
Colleyville, Texas, when a rabbi and four members of his congregation
were taken hostage. Ahead of time, the synagogue had already mapped out
its floor plan and submitted it to local officials and the FBI. They had
installed security cameras so law enforcement could see what was
happening in real-time. As a result, they could move quickly to mount a
rescue operation. And when there was an opportunity to escape, the
hostages relied on their active shooter training to take decisive action
and flee safely.

Colleyville’s then-Rabbi, Charlie Cytron-Walker, said after the hostage
crisis that – quote – “over the years, my congregation and I have
participated in multiple security courses from the Colleyville Police
Department, the FBI, the Anti-Defamation League, and Secure Community
Network. We are alive today because of that education.”

**Second, we need to reduce the threat itself and decrease hate-driven
violence and harassment.**

This brings me back to my father’s lesson – to build the bridges within
our communities that make it hard for hate to flourish. That was the
Administration’s aim last year when the President convened the United We
Stand summit.

The summit mobilized Federal agencies in new and renewed ways.  For
example, the Justice Department has improved the reporting of hate crime
incidents, to address the problem of underreporting by victims,
witnesses, and law enforcement agencies.

Another takeaway from the summit was the benefit of community-based
prevention efforts that see teachers, coaches, pastors and many others
working together to steer individuals away from hate and violence –
works that takes time and trust and seeing each other as human beings
living in the same community – wherever possible.

And when these efforts are insufficient, we will rely on our law
enforcement partners to prioritize the investigation and prosecution of
those who harass, abuse, and harm Jews and Jewish communities. 

On this point, strong partnerships between the government and diverse
community groups can have a real impact.  Let me give you an example. 
  

Last November, the Community Security Initiative, a community-based
security organization, detected a social media threat to – quote –
“shoot up a synagogue” in New York City. They relied on their strong
ties to law enforcement and reported the threat to the FBI and NYPD, who
quickly determined the threat was credible and identified two men as
suspects. That information was shared widely with local authorities and
houses of worship, which resulted in the swift apprehension of the men —
after a local transit worker recognized them in Penn Station and alerted
the police. 

The police arrested the suspects and found a handgun and a large
capacity magazine in their possession. All this was possible because a
community group had strong relationships in place with law enforcement.

So – whether you are working to strengthen ties within your community,
or helping us address harassment, abuse, and threats, it matters. You
are making a difference in the fight to end antisemitism.

**Third**, while we enhance protections in the short term… and expand
prevention efforts to reduce the threat over time… we also need to
address the creeping normalization of antisemitism in our everyday
lives, especially through online media. 

That includes tackling the ways in which antisemitic and other hateful
views circulate online and mix with conspiracy theories and
disinformation that can lead some people to undertake violence.

We need to ensure that those who spread lies and conspiracy theories
remain outside the mainstream. And we have to do this in a way that
protects not just members of the Jewish faith but members of all
religious denominations. That is how we will build common cause against
those who seek to divide us.  

That means speaking out forcefully and clearly when we encounter
expressions of hatred for Jews and other community groups, which is
something President Biden has done throughout his presidency and his
career in public service. Hate speech should never go unchallenged.

We as a Federal government are taking actions to address this.  For
example, the Departments of Commerce and Education are using model
curricula and grant programs to help Americans recognize online hate
speech and reduce its spread.

Through entities like the Global Internet Forum to Counter Terrorism, we
are sharing information with technology companies, to ensure they
understand the threat of antisemitism and more effectively enforce their
terms of service.  This is critical given the algorithms that suck
people into more sinister conversations that we know may lead to
incitement of violence.

And two years ago, after the prior Administration refused to join, we
announced our decision to join the Christchurch Call, an international
partnership among 56 governments and 10 technology companies, including
Facebook, Twitter, and YouTube, to develop new solutions to eliminating
terrorist content online while safeguarding free expression.

For example, when the perpetrator of the Buffalo supermarket murders
last May tried to livestream his attack, the Christchurch Call and GIFCT
worked swiftly to terminate the livestream. Then, they ensured it was
neither posted online nor shared widely, which meant the content was far
less widely circulated than we have seen in prior attacks, diminishing
the prospects of incitement, motivation by example, or copy-catting.

We know we need to go much further than this, and we are working with
Congress to do that.  As the President called for earlier this year, we
are looking to Congress to reform the laws to ensure technology
companies are responsible for the malign content they spread and the
algorithms they use.

As I hope all these examples illustrate – we cannot do this alone.  We
in government will do everything we can to improve the safety of Jews
and other religions, races, and ethnic groups who face threats and
discrimination.  But we need to do this work with you all.

We need the public to understand antisemitism and rally against it in
all its forms, while standing shoulder to shoulder with other
communities targeted by hate.

We need community groups, law enforcement, schools, houses of worship,
businesses and others to work together – both to rally against hate and
to use all of their tools to prevent hate-driven violence.

We need leaders at the local and state levels to join us in speaking out
and condemning antisemitism and hate whenever it arises.

And we need the Anti-Defamation League. And we will continue to work
alongside you. Because whether it’s the ADL’s COMBAT plan to fight
antisemitism in our communities… your REPAIR plan to address online
hate… or many of the other remarkable initiatives you have underway…. we
share the ADL’s comprehensive approach to end the defamation of the
Jewish people and to secure justice and fair treatment to all.

Coming back to the lessons I learned from my family’s experience –
fleeing hate and violence, starting new lives in a new land, making
their way despite skepticism and sometimes outright hostility, and
always looking for ways to lift up others and heal the world – I would
leave you with this final thought:  Turn understandable fear into
empowering action. 

Rabbi Marc Katz of Temple Ner Tamid in Bloomfield, New Jersey recently
put this best when he wrote that – quote – *“There will always be bad
actors, hateful people, bad agents. But they need not derail our lives.
Every triumph, no matter how small, takes up the room in our psyche that
was once full of our anxieties. We need to ask not what will happen
tomorrow but what we can do today. Then, when tomorrow comes, we arrive,
realizing we have been so busy fixing our broken world that we had no
time to be afraid.”*

Thank you for allowing me to join you this morning, and I look forward
to doing *tikkun olam* together with you in the days, months and years
ahead.
