---
date: '2023-05-18'
published_time: 2023-05-18 07:24:56-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/05/18/remarks-by-president-biden-and-prime-minister-kishida-fumio-of-japan-before-bilateral-meeting/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden and Prime Minister Kishida Fumio of Japan Before\
  \ Bilateral\_Meeting"
---
 
RIHGA Royal Hotel Hiroshima  
Hiroshima, Japan

6:02 P.M. JST

PRIME MINISTER KISHIDA: (As interpreted.)  Joe, the last time we met in
person was in January upon my visit to the U.S.  And it is indeed a
great pleasure to see you again in person and especially to welcome you,
Joe, here in my hometown.

The Japan-U.S. alliance is the very foundation of peace and security in
the Indo-Pacific.  Japan and the United States have a strong
relationship not only in the area of security, we have close and strong
cooperation in all areas.  We very much welcome that the cooperation has
evolved by leaps and bounds. 

Here in Hiroshima, the U.S. company Micron is engaged in leading
semiconductor research, development, and manufacturing.  And this is a
great case of Japan-U.S. semiconductor cooperation, and Japanese
government will continue to support Micron’s efforts.

And based upon our vision to develop an ecosystem for innovation and
startups in deep tech as we plan to create a global startup campus in
central Tokyo, joint study with the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology — the MIT, one of the leading universities of the United
States — has commenced.  By gaining cooperation from the United States,
we will materialize such vision.

Today, Joe and I will go over what we intend to discuss at the G7
Hiroshima Summit and engage in last-minute coordination.  And at the
summit, I am confident that the G7 will demonstrate our unwavering will
to uphold free and open international order based on the rule of law — a
concept that we both share.

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Well, Mr. <s>President</s> \[Prime Minister\], it’s
wonderful to see you again and here in your own hometown.  The — and
thank you for hosting the G7 Summit here. 

Under Japan’s leadership, we’ve already delivered progress on the G7
agenda this year.  And I’m looking forward to our meetings in the days
ahead.

As you said back in January when you were at the White House, I think
the quote is: We face the most — one of the most complex environments in
recent history — security environments.  And I couldn’t agree with you
more.

But I’m proud that the United States and Japan are facing it together. 
And, you know, we stand up for the shared values, including supporting
the brave people of Ukraine as they defend their sovereign territory and
holding Russia accountable for its brutal aggression.

And we’re tracking the global challenges — from strengthening our
community and our commitment to nuclear nonproliferation, to ensuring a
free and open Indo-Pacific.  That’s at the heart of all this.

And, you know, we’re — it seems to me we’re — we’re deepening our
cooperation on emerging technologies, including — including new
partnerships between the United States and Japanese companies and, as
you mentioned, universities as well in area- — in areas like quantum
computing and semiconductors.  And I want to thank you for Japan’s
commitment to increase investment in these areas.

The bottom line, Mr. Prime Minister, is that when our countries stand
together, we stand stronger.  And I believe the whole world is safer
when we do.

So, thank you again for having me here today.  And we look forward to
the next several days.

6:06 P.M. JST
