---
date: '2023-05-16'
modified_time: 2023-05-17 14:03:12-04:00
published_time: 2023-05-16 20:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/05/16/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-at-the-2023-we-are-emily-gala/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris at the 2023 We Are EMILY\_Gala"
---
 
*The Anthem*

*Washington, D.C.*

7:26 P.M. EDT

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Good evening, everyone.  Oh, good evening.
 Laphonza, you did your thing!  Look at this.  (Laughs.) 

My goodness, when I look out at this room, I know the future of our
country is bright. (Applause.)

Let me start by thanking the leader of EMILYs List, a dear, dear friend
to me and so many of us, Ms. Laphonza Butler.  (Applause.)  As Laphonza
said, we have known each other for so many years; we have worked
together. 

And I have seen, as I hope many of you have, the effort — the tireless
effort that Laphonza puts into her extraordinary role of leadership. 
And I will tell you, you and we are fortunate to have a leader of EMILYs
List who understands the mission and the purpose so deeply and
sincerely.  Because as I will discuss in a moment, there are so many of
our fundamental freedoms that are under attack.  And to have a leader
like Laphonza, as demonstrated with what she did and what EMILYs List
did during the midterms to elect the — an historic number of women
governors — (applause) — we applaud and thank you Laphonza Butler. 
(Applause.)

So it is good to see everyone.  I want to thank the board, including my
sister, Maya Harris, who is here.  (Applause.)

I want to thank the incredible Ellen Malcolm, Rebecca Haile, and the
whole board of EMILYs List.  Thank you for your leadership of this
organization.

And congratulations — a special congratulations to someone that I’ve had
the — the pleasure and the honor of working with over the course of the
last year and this year’s “Rising Star” leader, Fentrice Driskell. 
(Applause.)  There she is.  I can’t wait to see what you will do next.

So, as many of you know, I often quote my mother and one of her sayings
in particular, which was, “Kamala, you may be the first to do many
things.  Make sure you are not the last.”  (Applause.)  Well, because of
the mission and the work of EMILYs List, I know I won’t be the last.  I
know that.   This is a room full of firsts and those who are committed
to breaking these ceilings and showing what leadership looks like.

So, that being said, there’s a lot of business to cover tonight,
including the first order of business in my mind, which is to joyfully
celebrate a great woman, a great leader, and a great speaker: our
friend, Speaker Emerita Nancy Pelosi.  (Applause.)

So, I will tell you —

(Rumbling noise heard in room.)  No carpet in this room.  (Laughter.)

As a point of personal privilege — as a point of personal privilege, I
will tell you that among the many joys I’ve had serving as Vice
President, one of them in particular was the evening when our President,
Joe Biden, delivered his first State of the Union.  And that evening, I
couldn’t help but think about Ellen Malcolm and EMILYs List.  Because,
you see, I sat there, side by side with the first woman Speaker of the
House of Representatives as I serve as the first woman Vice President of
the United States.  (Applause.)

And to be sure, this Speaker is historic not only because of her gender
but, importantly, because of her leadership.  It is because of the
leadership of Speaker Pelosi that we have the Affordable Care Act. 
(Applause.)  It is because of her leadership that 100 million Americans
with pre-existing conditions will not now be denied coverage. 
(Applause.)  Because of her leadership, millions more Americans have
health insurance coverage.

And in the last two years, because of her partnership, the President and
I have made historic progress.  And I’m talking about the largest
investment in economic recovery since President Franklin Roosevelt. 
(Applause.)  The largest infrastructure investment since President
Eisenhower.  (Applause.)  The largest climate investment in America’s
history.  (Applause.)  But just to name a few.

Nancy, you are a dear friend, and you are an historic American leader. 
And I thank you on behalf of all of us for all you continue to do. 
Thank you.  (Applause.)  Thank you.

And so, EMILYs List, we are here again tonight, and in this room are the
defenders of democracy and the fighters for freedom.  (Applause.)  You,
the people in this room, fight every day to make our country better,
stronger, and more fair.  And right now, that work is more important
than ever.

You know, it seems like yesterday, but it was actually a year ago this
month when we were all together at this dinner and the Dobbs decision
had just been leaked.  And there were three words on my mind that night:
How dare they.  (Applause.)

How dare they attack our healthcare system.  How dare they attack our
fundamental rights.  How dare they attack the freedom of the women of
America to make decisions about their own bodies.  (Applause.)

And so we remember, a year ago at this dinner, we braced ourselves for a
world without Roe.  And sadly, we rightly predicted what would happen. 
Since that night, in states across our nation, extremist so-called
leaders have proposed and passed laws that ban abortion, some out right
from the moment of conception and others effectively with a ban as early
as six weeks. 

And on the six-week ban, everyone here knows many women don’t even know
they’re pregnant at six weeks — which, by the way, friends, tells us
most of these men don’t even understand how a woman’s body works. 
(Applause.)  Come on.

Since last year, when we were together, these extremists have proposed
and passed laws that make no exception, even for survivors of the crimes
of rape or incest.  They passed laws that turn women away from emergency
rooms in the middle of a miscarriage and prevent doctors from providing
care to women unless they are close to death.  These are the cases we’ve
been seeing, and these are only the ones we know about.

And all the while, these extremists dare — dare to posture that these
laws will protect mothers and babies.  Well, I say this: If they really
want to protect mothers and babies — (applause) —  well, Black women are
three times as likely to die in pregnancy than other women.  Native
women are twice as likely to die.  Rural women, one and a half times as
likely to die. 

And all over our country, including over half of the counties in
Georgia, Oklahoma, and Texas, have no OBGYN.  I did not say “a few.”  I
said “none.”  So to them, I say: Don’t come talking to us about the
health of women and babies when you have not treated maternal mortality
as the crisis it is.  How dare you.  (Applause.)

And, EMILYs List, do note: These extremist so-called leaders are on the
attack against our healthcare system as a whole.  They have tried to ban
the abortion pill mifepristone.   
  
Now, we know and realize the FDA has been approving medications for over
80 years — peer-reviewed, scientific processes to determine the health
and safety of medicines, including medicines for asthma, for high blood
pressure, for diabetes.  
  
Well, mifepristone has proven to be safe and effective as a medicine for
abortion and miscarriage care for over 20 years.  (Applause.)  But these
extremist so-called leaders suggest that lawyers and politicians, not
doctors, should determine which medication is best.   
  
Okay.  So I would urge them to look in their medicine cabinet to
understand the implications of what they are doing.  I would ask them to
look in the privacy of their home, in the privacy of their bathroom, in
their medicine cabinet, and I would ask them how much do they want
politicians getting in their business.  (Laughter and applause.)

Understand where this could go.  Understand where it could go.  Because
this is what will happen if extremists get their ways.   
  
 EMILYs List, I do believe it is critical that we also take a step back
to clearly see the moment we are in, see this moment in the context of
the history we have lived, and see it in the context of the future we
must shape, because this fight is not only about the people of Florida
and Texas.   
  
Let’s see where this is headed.  These extremists have a plan to take
their agenda national.  Their blueprint is to attack hard-won fights,
hard-won rights, and freedoms state by state, to attack the right to
vote as they limit drop boxes and reject mail-in ballots, to prevent the
teaching of America’s full history with book bans.  (Applause.)  Can you
imagine book bans in this year of our Lord 2023?  While they try to
condemn Americans for loving who they love openly and with pride.   
  
 And most recently — (applause) — most recently — I know we’re all
paying attention — and most recently, they even want to eliminate
classes that teach, quote, “gender ideology.”  
  
Well, so what are we talking about here?  Classes that teach women’s
history, women’s equality?  The study of the fact that there are still
only 25 women in the United States Senate in a body of 100?  (Applause.)

Do they want to eliminate the study of pay equity?  That women make 84
cents on the dollar?  That Black women make about 63 cents on the
dollar, Native women make about 60 cents, Latinas about 55 cents? 
(Applause.)   
  
Are they saying, “Don’t teach that.  Don’t learn that.  Don’t address
that”?   
  
Are we talking about saying that we shouldn’t be teaching about how, not
very long ago, women were excluded from casting a ballot or opening a
bank account?  
  
Again, I say: How dare they make a mockery of these issues.  We’re not
falling for it.  We are not falling for it.  (Applause.)   
  
And of course, again, a year later, we are here.  And it is clear that
these extremists, as part of their national agenda, want a nationwide
abortion ban.   
  
But I have news for them: We’re not having that.  (Applause.)  And
here’s the thing that everyone here knows: Part of what is behind our
posture and position and our fight is we love our country.  We love our
country, and we will not allow you to destroy the basic rights and
principles upon which our nation was founded.  (Applause.)

And, by the way, the majority of Americans are with us.  Just look at
the recent elections, where Americans of every background in every
community made their voice heard through their vote.   
  
From Kentucky to California, voters protected reproductive rights.  In
Michigan, they reelected Governor Gretchen Whitmer, who signed —
(applause) — the law to repeal the state’s anti-abortion law.  In
Kansas, they reelected Governor Laura Kelly, who has vetoed bills —
(applause) — that will restrict abortion.  In New Mexico, they reelected
Governor Michelle Lujan Grisham — (applause) — who has signed a bill to
protect abortion providers.  
  
Elections matter.  Say it with me, EMILYs List: Elections matter.  And
organizing matters.  (Applause.)  And in 2024, so much is at stake.   
  
For two years, because of your support, I have been honored to serve as
Vice President of the United States of America.  (Applause.)

Thank you.  Thank you.  (Applause.)  Oh, wow.  (Applause.)  Thank you. 
Thank you.  Thank you.  (Applause.)  Thank you, thank you.  (Applause.) 
Thank you.  (Applause.)  Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you, thank you,
thank you.  (Applause.)  Please, thank you.  (Applause.)

(Rumbling noise heard in room.)  Still no carpet.  (Laughter.)   
  
And for two years — and for two years, President Joe Biden and I have
fought to uphold and protect the fundamental freedoms of the American
people — (applause) — and now we need to finish the job.  (Applause.)  
  
For two years, we have stood together with all of you in defense of
freedom and democracy, in defense of civil rights, for human rights, for
women’s rights.  And I do believe, when you know what you stand for, you
know what to fight for.   
  
So, EMILYs List, again, I will ask you: Stand if you are in the fight
for the right of all people to express their vote through their voice,
use their voice for their vote.  (Applause.)   
  
Stand if you believe and are in the fight for people to love who they
love openly, and be free from gun violence!  (Applause.) 

  
Stand if you are in the fight for the right of our children to learn the
history of America — (applause) — if you agree you don’t have to abandon
your faith or deeply held beliefs to agree the government should not be
telling her what to do with her body!  (Applause.)  
  
Stand if you are in the fight for the expansion of the Child Tax Credit
— (applause) — and paid family leave and medical leave — (applause) —
and affordable childcare, and Medicare and Social Security! 
(Applause.)  
  
Stand if you are in the fight to renew the assault weapons ban —
(applause) — and to pass the John Lewis Voting Rights Advancement Act! 
(Applause.)   
  
Stand if you are prepared to fight for our democracy.  (Applause.)  
  
And, EMILYs List, look at us.  Look at us as we stand and we fight based
on our love of our country.  And, EMILYs List, when we fight, we win. 
(Applause.)

Thank you.  God bless you, and God bless America.  (Applause.)  Thank
you.  
  
                                 END               7:46 P.M. EDT
