---
date: '2023-05-03'
published_time: 2023-05-03 22:35:56-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/05/03/remarks-by-president-biden-at-dinner-for-combatant-commanders/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden at Dinner for Combatant\_Commanders"
---
 
*Cross Hall*

7:00 P.M. EDT

THE PRESIDENT:  Again, welcome.  And thank you for all — all for being
here.  Folks, this is something we look forward to since we’ve become
President, and we appreciate you all coming.

Just last week, Jill and I had a chance to host another group: the Air
Force Academy football team.  Now, I notice there’s only about a quarter
of you cheering.  (Laughter.)

But these young cadets are just starting out.  They had the same — but
they had the same sense of pride, they had the same sense of purpose and
the passion — and you could see it in all of them — the same passion
that you all possess.  You — I don’t — you probably don’t even realize
what you exude — your confidence in our capacities.

And I told them that they’d soon be joining a long line of American
service members, each a link in a chain of honor.  And that’s how I
think about it, when I think of our son.  I think of it as a just a
chain of honor.  Each one.

Over the years, that chain has grown stronger thanks to the generation
of military leaders you’ve all trained.  And — 75 years of a
desegregated military.  Seventy-five years of women — full integration. 
Fifty years of an all-volunteer force.  And that’s hard to believe,
because I remember most of that.  (Laughter.)  Worrisome.  Worrisome.

As I said at the — at the dinner for the — with the Correspondents
Dinner, I said, “You know, when Jimmy Madison wrote the Con- — that
amendment in the Constitution, I was there.”  (Laughter.)  And everybody
said, “Yeah, he probably was.”  I mean — (laughter).

But all kidding aside, each one of you over the years — this chain has
grown stronger.

And — and a mark of these milestones, as a consequence, I challenge you
to keep strengthening that chain in big and small ways — to keep
sharpening our military edge in the field and across the forces, to keep
taking on the challenges of today and tomorrow.  You know, I mean, when
you think about it, there’s no question — there’s never been in each our
minds — but there’s no question we have the finest military in the
history of the world — and that’s not hyperbole; that’s literally true —
in the history of the world.  (Applause.)

And I think other leaders around the world who don’t share the same view
as we do are beginning to understand that.

In return, you know, the — the fact is, in return, I promise that I will
always, always have your back.  And our military women and men — we have
sacred obligation — and I know I’ve said it many, many times — to
prepare those we send into harm’s way and take care of them and their
families when they come home, and to care for them in a way that they
deserve.  And that’s a little bit in dispute right now, but I think
we’ll get that straightened out, too, politically.

And I also want to take a moment to acknowledge the impressive
leadership in these last few months.  You’ve armed, you’ve equipped, and
you trained a proud and brave Ukrainian army and helped them preserve
their liberty and their democracy.

I spent months in the Ukraine prior to all this happening.  And I spoke
with to the Rada and — when they were having their debates about who
among the strongmen would lead. 

But I was the — I have to admit to you, I was a little bit surprised
just how — how courageous, how amazingly brave not only the military is
but the — but the Ukrainian people.  They’re just doing an incredible
job.  And it’s because of you. 

Your efforts to evacuate our embassy as well as — in — in Sudan —
American citizens — to facilitate that.  And the treatment and
capabilities and commitments of our armed forces helping American people
anywhere in the world.  

I don’t — you probably don’t think about it, but you’re just remarkable,
remarkable, remarkable group of people.  I mean that sincerely.  Except
for Milley.  I’m not so sure.  (Laughter.)  But —

Actually, I don’t want to — I’ve embarrassed him.  I said, “You know,
I’m going to really miss you.”  He said, “I’m not going anywhere yet.” 
(Laughter.)  “Don’t get sentimental on me, Biden.  I’m from Boston.”

But, you know, you continue to take terrorists off the battlefield with
pro- — with precision and professionalism, protecting our nation and our
allies and interests against the enduring threat. 

And each and every day, you — you put our nation in the strongest
possible strategic position around the world.  And that, again, is not
hyperbole; that’s a fact. 

Not just in moments of crisis, where you deliver as only Americans can,
but in critical day-to-day work strengthening our alliances from NATO to
Japan and the Republic of Korea, the Philippines, and Australia.  I
think the last several years, we’ve had a pretty good run, in terms of
people stepping up and other nations stepping up.

And — and anticipation of new threats in areas like the space and cyber
and building new partnerships like AUKUS.  And, you know, taking on the
hard missions and tran- — that transcends all our borders.

I mean, it’s — it’s just amazing.  From responding from the global
pandemic, to addressing historic levels of migration around the world.

In fact, our two combatant commanders, General Cavoli, head of the
European Command, and General Langley of the African Command couldn’t be
with us tonight because they’re standing guard right now.  They’re
running — they’re doing their job at a critical place in critical ways. 
They’re at their post, dealing with the war in Europe and the crisis in
Sudan. 

And as you’ve heard me say before many times — I apologize for repeating
it — but America is at — the world is at an inflection point. 

I used to have a professor in undergraduate school who said an
inflection point is where you’re going down a highway at 50 miles an
hour and you take an abrupt turn right or left — 10, 12 degrees.  You
can never get back on the road you were on.  And it’s happening again.  
  
We’re at a place where the decisions we made in the last few years, the
next three or four years are going to determine what this world is going
to look like — not figuratively, literally — the next three, four, five
decades.   
  
So, there’s a great deal at stake.  A great deal at stake.  And — and
most of it is in your hands.  You’ve shouldered the unique demands that
come with these changes. 

And, you know, together, we face new challenges, complex threats, and
you’ve remained unflinching — unflinching — in your pride, your purpose,
and your passion.

And that includes all the leaders who will be changing — changing out
this summer.  General Milley, who I really will miss.  He’s one of the
best I think I’ve ever served — been with.  General Berger — and the
Marines are going to be missing you, pal.  And General — General
McConville, Admiral Gilday, General VanHerck, and General Dickinson.

You know, gentlemen, thank you for your service, and thank you from the
bottom of our heart.  You have our deepest respect and gratitude.

And finally, I want to thank another important group that’s here
tonight: your spouses and your families.

You know, there’s that — you also serve.  You also sacrifice.  And I
mean that sincerely.  It’s not hyperbole.  You also strengthen our
nation.  
  
The British poet John Milton once wrote, “They also serve who only stand
and wait.”  
  
When Beau was in Iraq for a year — before that, he was in Kosovo — I’d
watch my wife, who’d get up and go to school.  She left a little before
me.  And she’d be standing by the — by the sink, and she’d be mouthing a
prayer that the head of the National Guard in Delaware’s wife had given
her.  
  
Many of you had to wait for that phone call.  You wonder what’s going
on.  And you just — but you’re there.  You’re there.  You allow it to
work.  Whether you’re a male or female spouse, you’re doing something
that is — you’re — you’re serving the country.  It wouldn’t work without
you.

So, tonight, I’d like you to please join me in raising your glass.  I
want to make a toast.

To our servicemen and their families, to the chain of honor they create,
may it continue to grow stronger generation after generation.  
  
Here, here.  
  
(President Biden offers a toast.)  
  

AUDIENCE:  Here, here.  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  God bless America.  
  
7:09 P.M. EDT
