---
date: '2023-05-01'
published_time: 2023-05-01 21:58:25-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/05/01/remarks-by-president-biden-at-a-reception-to-celebrate-eid-al-fitr-2/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden at a Reception to Celebrate Eid\_al-Fitr"
---
 
East Room

5:52 P.M. EDT

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  We love you!  (Laughter.)

THE PRESIDENT:  Welcome to your home.  Welcome, everyone.  Eid Mubarak —

AUDIENCE:  Eid Mubarak!

THE PRESIDENT:   — to one and all.

I — I just asked —

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  Thanks, Uncle Joe.  (Laughter.)

THE PRESIDENT:  (Laughs.)

I just asked whether or not prayer was supposed to start at six o’
clock.  (Laughter.)  It is now — five minutes.  This will be the
quickest speech I ever made in my entire life.  (Laughter.)  But I’m
told it’s not a — actually has to be at six.  Is that right?

Well, thank you, Doug and Kamala, for being here.

And thank you, Ronnie, for sharing your music with us.

And, Imam, thank you for that introduction and creating a place of
connection and belonging for Muslims here in Washington, D.C.

And thank all of you for joining us in the White House.  It is the
People’s House, for real.  It’s your house.  It’s your house.

It represents an incredibly diverse contributions of — that Muslims have
made to our nation as teachers, as engineers, as doctors, lawyers,
business owners, congresswomen, congressmen.

Muslims surveyed and served very, very bravely in the U.S. Armed Forces
and law enforcement in putting —

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  Woo!  (Laughter.)

THE PRESIDENT:  What branch?

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  Army, sir.

THE PRESIDENT:  Army?  All right.

Putting their lives on the line to keep our communities and our country
safe.  (Applause.)

You’ve led civil society groups, helping refugees and

people with disabilities, creating opportunities for women, and standing
up against hate.

Muslim culture is woven throughout the American culture in music, film,
literature, fashion, and the arts.

And the cheer from Muslim — we cheer for Muslim athletes, like Kareem
Alj- — Alj- — Abdul-Jabbar.  I know him, and I still mispronounced his
name.  (Laughter.)  But he calls me “Joe *Bid-en*” once in a while. 
(Laughter.)

Remains and — and think of all the great Muslim athletes we saw in the
Final Four. 

Folks, look, he remains an inspiration.  And there are even Muslim
superheroes now, like Mrs. Marvel. 

AUDIENCE:  Wooo!

THE PRESIDENT:  Mrs. Marvel. 

On that note, I want to mention one special guest tonight, a huge
superhero fan from Lexington, Massachusetts: Omar Masood.

Omar, where are you?  There you are, Omar.  (Applause.)  The owner of
Omar’s World of Comics.

All right.  There you go.  You’re looking good, man.

He sells comic books, hosts gaming tournaments, and most importantly, he
offers job training for students with disabilities.  (Applause.)

Omar — Omar has Down syndrome.  And his store is a place where everyone
is welcome — everyone is welcome — everyone is valued, and everyone can
make a contribution.

We’re really proud of you, Omar.  Thank you for being here, buddy. 
(Applause.)

We also have members of the House of Representatives here. 

Congresswoman Omar.  Where are you, Congresswoman Omar?

REPRESENTATIVE OMAR:  Right here.

THE PRESIDENT:  There you go.  God love you.  (Laughter.)

I’m not supposed to — I’ll get in trouble for saying this, but you look
beautiful tonight.  (Applause.)

And Congresswoman Tlaib.  Where’s — where’s the congresswoman?  There
you are.  Okay.  So do you!

And Congressman Carson.  (Applause.)  There you are.  I don’t know, man,
what to say.  (Laughs.)

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  He’s — he’s our dean!

THE PRESIDENT:  He’s your dean?  I know he’s a dean.  Are you kidding
me?  I just didn’t want to comment on his looks; I’d get in trouble. 
(Laughter.)

And, by the way, there are more Muslims — Muslim Americans serving in
Congress today than ever in American history.  (Applause.)

And it’s great for democracy.  It’s great for democracy when Congress
looks like America.

I want everyone — of all the elected officials here who serve in city,
county, state governments across the nation, I want to compliment you. 
Some of you are the first Muslims ever to hold the seats you have. 
(Applause.)  Thank you.  And I’m so proud to see this during my time as
President of the United States.

Finally, I want to recognize all the members of my administration here
today.  Thank you for being on the team.

Muslim Americans in my administration are working on everything from
making sure our veterans get quality healthcare, to meeting the climate
crisis, to representing Americans overseas as members of our diplomatic
corps.

You know, I’ve appointed Muslim Americans to positions all across the
government, including reinstating the Muslim Liaison position in the
Office of Public Engagement here in the White House.  (Applause.)

To everyone who serves in my administration, working hard every day to
help the American people on behalf of them: Thank you, thank you, thank
you.

You —

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  We also have the first federal judge –Muslim federal
judge.  The only one. 

THE PRESIDENT:  Hey, judge, how are you?  (Laughter.)

I don’t know why you wanted the job, man.  (Laughter.)  I appoint all
those federal judges, but, you know, thank you for serving.  I’m not
kidding.

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  (Inaudible.)

THE PRESIDENT:  You want to come and make a speech?  (Laughter.)  Hush
up, boy.  (Laughter.)  As my mother would say. 

Look, folks, I hope — (laughs) — you had a blessed Ramadan.

Fasting from dawn to dusk is not easy.  No food.  No water. 
Sleep-deprived from late-night prayers, waking up early before dawn. 
It’s a period of testing and sacrifice that brings you closer to others
who suffer and strengthens those — your resolve to help build a better
world.  It demands patience and determination.

In that way, it’s not so different than we Catholics have Lent.  We do
it for 40 days, but not nearly as hard your time.  (Laughter.)  It’s a
little longer than Ramadan, but we get to eat and drink — (laughter) —
during the day, which makes a big difference to say the least.

In the end, Ramadan brings you closer to God and to each other, because
Ramadan is something you experience together.  That’s the important
piece of it.  You support each other through their daily fasts.  You
show generosity by giving alms to hungry people.  You gather with
friends and family and for iftars each night.

And then, at the end of the month, you celebrate Eid with new clothes —
(laughter) — brightly decorated homes, delicious sweets, which I’m
waiting for.  (Laughter.)  

All told, Ramadan is a time to slow down, reconnect, and remember what
matters most.

And even after Ramadan is over, you carry those lessons for the rest of
the year.

At this point, we look ahead to the work that remains.  We remember
Muslim communities around the world that are enduring conflict, poverty,
hunger, disease, and those that are

displaced from their homes.

And we recommit to the tireless work of building peace and standing up
for the rights and dignity of all people.  All people. 

And we’re determined to confront all forms of hate, including
Islamophobia, which is important to me.  (Applause.)  This is a priority
for my administration, which is why I established an interagency task
force to address attacks on Muslims and anti-Muslim bias and
discrimination.

And this was a focus of United — the “United We Stand” summit we
convened last September.

Standing up against anti-Muslim hate is essential to who we are as a
country founded on freedom and justice for all.

Let me close with this.  Muslims have been part of the United States
from the very start.  Muslims fought along the patriots during the War
for Independence.

One of the first countries to recognize the United States as an
independent nation was a Muslim country, Morocco.  (Applause.) 

Today, there are 3.5 million of you in the United States.  You come from
different ethnicities, races, speak different languages, but you’re
united all as Americans.

You know, the Quran teaches that, “One of His \[highest\] signs is the
creation of the heavens and earth and the diversity of our languages and
colors.”  Well, I believe that to be true.

That same idea echoed in the motto of our nation, “E Pluribus Unum.” 
Out of many, one.

That’s who we are as Americans.  We’re the most unique country in the
world.  We’re the only country based on not ethnicity, not on race,
religion, but based on an idea.  An idea that’s confident, that’s shared
by all major faiths.  And that is that we hold these truths to be
self-evident that all men and women are created equal, endowed by their
Creator with certain inalienable rights.

You know, just ask someone who’s here with us today, Khizr Khan.  Mr.
Khan, it’s so good to see you, man.  It really is.  (Applause.)

He studied the Cons- — the U.S. Constitution as a law student in
Pakistan; immigrated to America with his wife and their young family,
fully believing in the promise of this nation.

They watched their middle son enlist in the United States Army, who,
like mine, ultimately sacrificed himself to save, in this case — in his
case — his fellow soldiers.

In late November of 2016, at a time when the oldest and darkest forces
of hate had emerged in new ways, I invited Mr. and Mrs. Khan to the Vice
President’s Residence in the Naval Observatory for a Diwali reception. 
Okay?

An Irish Catholic Vice President, a Muslim Gold Star family in a
reception observing Hindu holidays.  (Laughter.)  But that’s what
America — that’s the America we both know.

Last summer, right here in this room, I presented Mr. Khan with the
Presidential Medal of Freedom.  And he deserved it.  (Applause.)  That
medal rests next to his son’s Bronze Star and Purple Heart. 

And Mr. Khan still carries a copy of the Constitution in his pocket as a
reminder of the charge to keep.

Folks, thank you — all of you — for your contributions to our nation,
for your patriotism, for your community spirit, for your commitment to
the shared values that make us great.  And —

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  Mr. President, I’m a mother of a proud U.S. Marine. 
And he just wanted to say hello.  And he loves you.  (Laughter.)

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, thank you very, very much.  (Laughter.) 

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  First Muslim to city council in Boston.  We love you. 

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, thank you.  (Laughs.)

And so I don’t get in trouble holding prayer too long — (laughter) —
Happy Eid Mubarak. 

And God bless you all.  (Applause.)  And may God protect our troops. 
Thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you.  (Applause.)

So enjoy the evening.  The House is yours.  Thank you. 

6:03 P.M. EDT
