---
date: '2023-05-24'
published_time: 2023-05-24 16:10:47-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/05/24/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-at-the-jewish-democratic-council-of-america-leadership-convening/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris at the Jewish Democratic Council of America\
  \ Leadership\_Convening"
---
 
The Pendry  
Washington, D.C.

10:05 A.M. EDT  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Hi, everyone.  Please have a seat.  Have a seat. 
Hi.  Let me first start by thanking Halie.  As she said, we worked
together in the U.S. Senate.  She was my national security advisor.  And
I remember when you decided to take this position and you were so
excited about the potential and what it would mean, and always
understanding the opportunity of a moment but also the responsibility in
that moment to lead.   
  
And I just want to say in front of all of the friends: Halie is an
extraordinary leader.  She is so committed.  She is so committed. 
(Applause.)  She is smart as a whip.  She is committed.  She works so
hard.  She has passion about all that is right.  She’s a fighter for
justice and a dear friend and advisor.  So, thank you, Halie, for all
you have done.  (Applause.)  Thank you.  
  
So, I’m so glad to see all of the friends.  The first Second Gentleman
of the United States brings you his best after seeing you last night,
and he really enjoyed being with everyone last night.  And I just wanted
to stop by to thank you all for the work that you are doing.  
  
You know, Doug — he has — he’s been traveling the world to fight against
hate and fight against antisemitism.  And one of the — the things that
he has been saying — he just came up with it.  But he said and talks
about — and in particular with young people — about the importance of
living openly as a Jew.   
  
And for any of you who have seen him when he does this — in particular
with young people, but people of every generation — it’s really so
important for people to hear those words and understand what that
means.  Because in our fight against hate, what we are also fighting
against is powerful forces that aim to suggest that we are alone and
without community and without support — those who aim to make people
feel powerless and unsafe.  
  
And so, the work that we do is, yes, to fight against those forces, to
call them out where they exist.  And sadly, we are seeing them in many
places around our country and the world.  But in that fight, it is also
important to remind people that they are not alone and that we all stand
together and that it is a sign of our collective strength to say no one
will be made to fight alone.  
  
And so, that’s how I think about this moment.   
  
I will tell you, I am deeply concerned about what we are seeing in our
country in terms of hate and, in particular, antisemitism.   
  
As many of you know, in my career, I was an elected DA of San Francisco
and did a lot of work prosecuting hate crime.  When I was Attorney
General of the State of California, I ran the second-largest Department
of Justice in the United States, second only to the U.S. Department of
Justice.  And I issued hate crime reports every year.  
  
And therefore, tracking with empirical data what we were seeing in terms
of the hate that was manifesting itself in threats of violence and acts
of violence against various people in our communities, including the
antisemitism we were seeing in a state like California.

And now, as Vice President of the United States, when I travel the
country and meet with folks and hear the stories — stories from
students, stories from grandmothers, and everyone in between — we know
this is an issue that we have to remain vigilant about.

You know, I often quote Coretta Scott King, and I’ll paraphrase.  And
she famously said that the fight for justice, for civil rights, for
equality, must be fought and won with each generation. 

And I think what she meant were — there were basically two things.  One,
that these fights will produce gains, but those gains will never be
permanent.

So, the second point, then, isn’t an admonition; it’s the very nature of
it.  Whatever gains they — that we make, they will not be permanent
unless we are vigilant — unless we are vigilant to preserve what we have
achieved. 

And in that admonition, I think what she was saying is: Understanding it
is the nature of it all, let us not be overwhelmed.  Let us not be
living in a state of fear.  Let us not throw up our hands when it’s time
to roll up our sleeves.

And that is the work of this organization and each of you: understanding
we must be vigilant, we can take nothing for granted.  We have known
this, and history has shown this to us.

And so, we are prepared then to do what is necessary to fight back
against hate and to speak up for the pride and the strength that we each
share, in terms of thinking about what all of this represents.

And I must say, Halie, thinking about it, and we’ve — so many of us work
together when it comes to the work that we do to fight antisemitism in a
variety of ways, including the work that is happening here around
elections.   
  
And so, first, let me congratulate this group for the midterms and what
happened there, in terms of the activism that resulted.  You know, it
was supposed to be this wave, they said.  It was just a foregone
conclusion.  Well, it didn’t happen because we were not willing to sit
back and let it happen, and created a counterforce that was based on
fighting for our ideals — not fighting against anything, fighting for
something.  
  
And elections matter.  Elections matter.  Elected leaders, whatever
their level — local, state, federal — usually have a bouquet of
microphones in front of them.  And with that, I think we all agree, the
responsibility to elevate public discourse, to educate the public about
how they should be thinking about history, the present, and the future,
in addition to so many other things.   
  
And so, we want to make sure that when people then achieve these elected
offices, they will use these microphones in a way that is responsible
and reflective of what we all expect from leaders.   
  
You know, what’s really been bothering me a lot, I must say, is the tone
out there these days amongst some elected leaders who are suggesting
that it is a sign of weakness to have empathy.   
  
It is a sign of strength to have empathy, to have a level of concern,
much less a sense of connection to those who are suffering or have been
wronged.  
  
But we’re working in an environment in this year, 2023, where there are
people who are going around pounding their chests about how strong they
are when their measure of strength is based on who they beat down.  But
our measure of strength is based on who you lift up — (applause) — who
you lift up.  
  
And so, that is the work we are doing to support those folks who
understand what we, I think, know and history has always shown to be the
attributes of true leaders, especially in times like this where there
are concerted efforts to divide us as a nation, when we know truly that
our best moments is when we have understood, as I wrote in Yad Vashem —
when we know and we remember and hold dear that the vast majority of us
have so much more in common than what separates us.  
  
So, with that, I say again thank you, everyone here, for the work you
are doing, the work you continue to do.  This is work that is fueled by
optimism.  Every success we have achieved is because we are optimistic
and know and believe in what is good and what is right and that it is
achievable.  
  
So, let’s let that continue to fuel us as we do our work going
forward.  
  
Thank you all very much.  (Applause.)

                                                                       
                 END                10:16 A.M. EDT

\###
