---
date: '2023-05-25'
published_time: 2023-05-25 16:26:14-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/05/25/remarks-as-prepared-for-delivery-by-first-lady-jill-biden-at-the-reagan-institute-summit-on-education/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks as Prepared for Delivery by First Lady Jill\_Biden at the Reagan Institute\
  \ Summit on\_Education"
---
 
Washington, D.C.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Thank you, Fred. And thank you for the warm welcome at this conference.
I’ve really enjoyed getting to know you through our work with the White
House Historical Association—and it’s wonderful to see you again.

I’m glad to be back with the Reagan Institute today. When I spoke here
five years ago, I talked about how much I’ve learned from my students
over the years. How they remind me, every day, of just how much
education matters. And as your First Lady, that lesson has only been
reinforced.

As I’ve traveled the country, I’ve visited red states and blue states.
And I’ve found that the common values that unite us are deeper than our
divisions. I’ve seen how a kind word or gesture can relax someone’s
shoulders just a bit—can open their heart to what you have to say, even
if we’ll never agree. I’ve seen how, despite our differences, most
people want the same things: the chance to work hard and build a good
life for our families.

Many of our leaders know that too. Not long ago, I was in Colorado,
talking with state legislators from both sides of the aisle about bills
that would provide free and reduced-cost job training for in-demand
careers. And Governor Polis signed those bills last week.

I’ve met with Republican leaders in Vermont, Indiana, and Arizona to see
the incredible ways they’re working to pioneer similar work.

So today, I’d like to talk to you once again about a place where I think
America has so much common ground: The future of education.

When I was growing up, success meant one thing: getting a four-year
degree. I’m sure that’s how it was for most of you as well. Many
Americans still feel that way.

As some of you know, I teach at a community college not far from here.
And while some of my students are working towards their bachelor’s
degree, that path just isn’t right for all of them.

My husband, Joe, understands that, for most people, a high school
diploma alone isn’t enough to find a great career. But that doesn’t mean
there’s only one path to success. That’s why we’re bringing together our
entire government—along with incredible allies like all of you—to bridge
the gap between learning and earning. Students can take college courses
in high school or enroll in Registered Apprenticeships. They can train
in growing industries and find great jobs with associate degrees.

Now, a lot of these programs aren’t new. But here’s what is: Jobs.

Through the Biden Administration’s Investing in America agenda, we’re
strengthening our nation’s infrastructure. We’re creating millions of
jobs in growing industries like clean energy and manufacturing.

Recently, I met a 16-year-old welding student in Seattle who told me he
was making $25 an hour thanks to the dual-enrollment training he got at
his high school. I met a young man from Texas who, when he finishes his
advanced manufacturing apprenticeship next year, will be able to take a
job right away with a starting salary of more than $50,000. I met a
young woman in Arizona earning a degree in construction management. She
will graduate into a field where workers could make nearly $100,000 a
year.

This work pays well and often doesn’t require four years of college.

That’s the Biden education pathway: our nation’s next horizon. It starts
with free, high-quality universal preschool and creates a high school
experience that prepares students for their next steps. It provides two
years of affordable community college and opens up avenues to a
four-year degree.

This is the future of our workforce—how we grow our economy from the
bottom up and the middle out.

And in a time when we often can’t agree, it’s an area where we have so
many values in common. We all want hardworking students to be
successful, even if a four-year degree isn’t the right path.

We want them to be able to access learning that connects to the careers
that pay well and are shaping our future. And businesses want more
skilled workers who are excited about their field. We can have those
things when we work together.

You know that because this organization has worked for so many years to
bring together people from all walks of life, leaders from across the
ideological spectrum to share ideas and best practices. It’s why you’re
here today.

So I’m asking you to keep going.

Find innovative ways to connect students and employers, so every
student, in every community, can find the path that works for them.
Together, we will help Americans from all walks of life thrive in the
jobs of the future.

Through the Biden education pathway, we can fundamentally transform what
it means to make a living and make a life here in America.

Thank you.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
