---
date: '2023-05-01'
published_time: 2023-05-01 14:23:04-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/05/01/remarks-by-president-biden-at-a-national-small-business-week-event/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden at a National Small Business Week\_Event"
---
 
Rose Garden

12:32 P.M. EDT  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Good morning, or af- — good afternoon.  (Laughter.)  
  
Bes- — before we start, I’m pleased to say that the regulators have
taken action to facilitate the sale of First Republic Bank and ensure
that all depositors are protected and that taxpayers are not on the
hook.  
  
These actions are going to make sure that the banking system is safe and
sound, and that includes protecting small businesses across the country
who need to make payroll for workers and their small businesses.  
  
And so, let me be very clear: While depositors are being protected,
shareholders are losing their investments.  And, critically, taxpayers
are not the ones that are on the hook, as I said earlier.  (Applause.)  
  
But going forward, I’ve called on Congress to give regulators the tools
to hold bank executives accountable.  And I’ve called on regulators to
strengthen regulations and supervision of large and regional banks.  
  
And, folks, we have to make sure that we’re not back in this position
again, and I think we’re well on our way to be able to make that
assurance.  
  
And as I said to my introducer, Jill, a moment ago, she’s really
impressive, isn’t she?  (Applause.)   
  
And the guy sitting next to her — if you disagree with me, it’s her
husband, and you’re in deep trouble.  (Laughter.)  Welcome, man. 
Speaking of small business, you got your own small business.  And I want
to thank you.  
  
Look, folks, we — we’ve got a lot to do.  And the most immediate thing
we can do is ensure the continued reliance of our economy and the
financial system.  
  
The most important thing we have to do in that regard is to make sure
the threat by the Speaker of the House to default on the national debt
is off the table.  
  
For over 200 years, America has never, ever, ever failed to pay its
debt.  To put in the capital — in colloquial terms, America is not a
deadbeat nation.  We have never, ever failed to meet the debt.  
  
Now, as a result, we’re one of the most respected nations in the world. 
We pay our bills, and we should do so without reckless hostage-taking
from some of the MAGA Republicans in Congress.  
  
And, folks, now for the reason we’re here: We’re all here today because
I want to thank Jill and all of you — and Jill was last year’s winner,
as you all know — for her introduction and for the hope your business
gives so many families that so badly need it.  They really do.  
  
My daughter is a social worker, working with abused women in
Philadelphia, and — it’s her passion.  But there’s so much we can do if
we just have the wherewithal to reach out.  
  
You know, thanks to Administrator Guzman for leading this historic
effort to support small businesses all across America.  
  
And I want to thank Vice President Harris, who’s doing such an expanded
entrepreneurship \[in\] underserved communities throughout America,
talking about what impact it has on those underserved communities.  
  
And congratulations — (applause) — and congratulations to the National
Small Business Week Award winners.  
  
You’re models of grit, heart, drive, and determination, all the virtues
— and it’s not hyperbole — that literally built America.  
  
This week, we celebrate that same unstoppable spirit in every
entrepreneur nationwide.  
  
Small businesses are the engine of our economy, the glue — they really
are — the glue, the heart and soul of communities.  And most citizens
don’t know it — is that you small-business owners, you account for 40
percent — let me say it again — 40 percent of the gross domestic product
of America.  Small businesses.  Not mega corporations.  Small
businesses.  
  
You enjoy nearly half — employ nearly half of all private sector
workers.  And that’s — I don’t think people know that.  I don’t think
they understand the consequence — the economic consequence.  
  
You’re involved in and you’re innovative across every single, solitary
industry.  
  
You know, we saw it here at the White House last month when I hosted the
annual Women’s Business Summit to celebrate the critical contributions
that women entrepreneurs make to our economy.  
  
And we see it here again today in companies like — and I hope I
pronounce it right — A- — AmePower?  Is it “*Ame*”?  
  
PARTICIPANT:  Yep.  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  I believe that’s right, yeah.  AmePower, Florida’s Small
Business winner — award winner.  Business Week winner.  You won. 
(Laughter and applause.)  Well, it’s a big deal.    
  
Founded by immigrants from Latin America, it designs hai-pa- —
high-power energy converters to help fuel our shift to a clean-energy
future.  
  
And we see it in businesses like Begin <s>With</s> \[Within\] Therapy,
the Illinois winner.

Give her — let’s clap for that one, too.  (Applause.)  
  
It started eight years ago in one room in Chicago’s South Side and now
provides 20,000 mental health care appointments a year, helping change
the community for the better.  
  
Every business here has a story.  And the Small Business Administration
has helped tell those stories — your stories — and to grow your
businesses.  And it’s one of the best investments — it’s not hyperbole —
one of the best investments America can make.  
  
That’s why supporting small business is at the heart of my plan to grow
our economy from the middle out and the bottom up.  
  
You know, I came from a working-class family, and not a whole lot
trickled down.  A trickle-down economy — not a whole lot dropped on my
dad’s kitchen table. 

And so we’re building it from the middle out and the bottom up.  And I
really mean it.

When I took office, our economy was reeling.  Small businesses were
getting crushed.  Hundreds of thousands of small — literally, hundreds
of thousands of small businesses across America had been closed and
closed forever.  Millions more were hanging by a thread.  
  
Many of you remember that fear of not only losing your livelihood but
losing your dream, your life’s savings, your hopes of leaving something
behind for your kids.  
  
So we moved fast.  
  
Within weeks, we reformed the Paycheck Protection Program to get
game-changing help to thousands of small businesses, some right here on
this lawn, that had been shut out during the prior administration.  
  
I signed the American Rescue Plan.  In sum total, we delivered $450
billion in relief — (applause) — to 6 million small businesses,
including many of yours.  And, by the way, you generated, with your
business, more of that in revenue than you got help on — with.  You pay
your bills, you paid your workers, you kept your doors open.  You grew
the economy.  
  
We gave additional support to 100,000 restaurants and 220,000 childcare
centers, which so many working parents rely on.  
  
And imagine if we didn’t do that, what the impact on the economy was. 
How many of those 220,000 women and men would be able to continue to
work?

And, by the way, not a single Republican voted for that bill.  
  
Next, I signed the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law.  How can we be the
strongest nation in the world without the strongest infrastructure in
the world?  We’re making intersections safer.  We’re making sure
communities can connect the Inter- — to the Internet affordably and
reliably.  Making sure the water you drink is safe, protecting one of
the most important things we can do by eliminating lead pipes in America
so you can su- — assure that the 400,000 schools in America, when your
kid turns on that faucet to take a drink, they’re not getting sick.

Look, we’re making a whole economy stronger for years to come.  
  
We passed the CHIPS and Science Act, one of the most significant
investments ever — ever in American history — in manufacturing and
research and development.  
  
We attracted over $400 billion in less than two years in private sector
investment, creating tens of thousands of jobs now and in the future.

We’re going to lead the world again in manufacturing and sale of
semiconductors.  We invented them.  We made them smaller.  We made them
more technically capable.  And we ended up at — because of the last 15
years, getting down to having only 10 percent of the market.

It’s building the industries of the future and the small-business supply
chains to support them right here at home.  
  
I signed the Inflation Reduction Act, the most aggressive action to
fight climate ever, anywhere in the world, creating new markets for
small clean-energy companies.  
  
Put all that together, and our plan is quite simple: Invest in America.

You know, if I could hold a second here, you know, the fact is —
(applause) — I want to make something clear.

We’re in a situation where, back in the ‘30s, there was a proposal that
we could invest any money the President spent of taxpayers’ money, he
could insist to be made by American manufacturers and use American
products.  But not many people had the willingness to do it, but I
changed that.

The fact is — (applause) — we’re making it in America, we’re building it
in America, and we’re using American products, and we’re using American
work.

And that investment is being led by all of you here, America’s small
businesses.  And it’s led by — it’s led to a small business boom.

Today, we’re in the midst of the strongest economic recovery on
record.  
  
In less than two years, we’ve created 12.6 million new jobs — more jobs
in two years than any President has created in his first four years in
office.  (Applause.)  
  
Unemployment is near a 50 <s>percent</s> \[year\] low.  Inflation is
slowing down 40 percent since last year.  
  
We have more to do.  
  
It’s a historic turnaround, and it’s giving people confidence to risk
starting a new enterprise.  
  
And, by the way, a record 10.5 million new business applications were
filed in my first two years, the largest number ever on record in a
two-year period, and we’re tracking it.  (Applause.)  
  
Every time someone starts a new business, you know what it is.  It’s an
act of hope.  It’s an act of hope.  It really matters.  It’s about who
we are.  
  
One year ago, I unveiled the administration’s small-business strategy. 
Today, we’re releasing a report card on the progress we’ve made.  Maybe
I should say the progress you made — you made.  
  
We’ve seen — we’ve set a record for federal contracts spending —
contracts spending on small businesses, making sure they benefit from
the historic investment in America’s infrastructure, industry, and the
economy.

And we’re working hard to expand access to capital to help promising
businesses continue to grow.  
  
The Small Business Administration last year provided $43 billion in
low-cost loans to many of you here on this lawn and all across
America.  
  
I finalized new rules to expand credit to rural, minority-, women-,
veterans-owned enterprises by working with non-traditional lenders, like
nonprofits.  
  
And invested $10 billion in state-level small-business programs, drawing
tens of billions more from private funding and small — for small
companies.  
  
We’ve made all this progress while — believe it or not, if you don’t
listen to the other team — by being fiscally responsible.  
  
Unlike the last guy, my first two years, we cut the deficit 1.7 billion
dollars — trillion — trillion — trillion dollars — (applause) — not
billion, trillion dollars — in less than two years.   
  
And we’re — and we’re going to bring it down hundreds of billions more
in the decades ahead by making the super-wealthy and big corporations
begin to pay their fair share, just their fair share.  
  
By the way, you know, we have about a thousand billionaires.  You know
what their average tax rate is?  Eight — E-I-G-H-T — percent. 
(Laughter.)  Yeah, that’s what I think too.  Eight percent.  It’s such a
burden.  Such burden on them.  
  
And, by the way, folks, how many of you think — it’s a serious
question.  Press can participate if they want to, too.  How many of you
think the tax system we have today is fair?  Notice all the hands that
went up.  (Laughter.)  
  
Folks, that’s why we instituted a corporate minimum tax of 15 percent —
15 percent.  Hell, schoolteachers pay a hell of a lot more than 15
percent.   
  
Look, now small businesses can finally start to compete on a level
playing field.  
  
And, by the way, one of the reasons we were able to keep that debt down
to $1.7 trillion and reduce the debt was because all that we did — you
paid — remember you’d hear — you got tired of hearing me speak in the
last two years about the 550 American corporations that made a half a
billion — $40 — $400 billion and didn’t pay a penny in taxes.  
  
Somehow, people thought, like me, that wasn’t a fair thing to do.  So we
got change.  We set a 15 percent tax.   
  
What a burden.  It paid for everything, and now the other team wants to
repeal it because they think it’s unfair to them.  
  
Folks, look, all of that is a sharp contrast to our friends on the other
side.  
  
Last week, Speaker McCarthy passed a partisan bill that would claw back
billions of dollars meant for small businesses.  
  
It would gut training and support, make it harder for veterans-owned
businesses to win federal contracts.  
  
Slash funding for the Small Business Administration’s Inspector General
to fight fraud and abuse to keep this president on — this program on the
level.  
  
Their extreme MAGA plan would cut critical funding for education, public
safety, including cut 60,000 public schoolteachers, take healthcare and
food assistance away from millions of working families.  Moody’s
suggested it would cost us 780,000 jobs lost if it passed — not me,
Moody’s.  It would put the entire economy at risk by refusing to pay our
nation’s bills.  
  
Let me be clear: Our nation’s debt has taken over 200 years to
accumulate.  That’s what we’re paying.  We’re not paying for what we’re
spending right now.  The 200 years — 200 years of debt.  
  
And, by the way, in the previous four years, the last guy increased the
entirety of the national debt by 40 percent. 

Threatening default now would be totally respons- — irresponsible.  It
would lead to higher interest rates, higher credit card rates; mortgage
rates would skyrocket.  Working people, the middle class, and seniors
would pay the price.  
  
Let me close with this.  You’ve made so much progress in the last two
years.  Now it’s time for us to finish the job.  Expand opportunities so
people with great ideas can launch strong businesses, help grow our
economy, and leave no one behind.  
  
That’s what entrepreneurs here today do what you’re doing and continue
to do.  You see possibilities to make this all real.  
  
You’re the big reason why I’ve never been — and I mean this sincerely —
I’ve never been more optimistic about our future than I am today.  
  
We just have to remember who we are.  I really mean it.  Think about
it.  We are the United States of America.  There is not a damn thing
beyond our capacity if we do it together.  
  
We have never, ever, ever failed when we’ve set a goal and done it
together.   
  
So, folks, let’s keep it going.   
  
God bless you all.  And may God protect our troops.  Thank you. 
(Applause.)

12:49 P.M. EDT
