---
date: '2023-05-10'
modified_time: 2023-05-11 13:22:43-04:00
published_time: 2023-05-10 20:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/05/10/remarks-by-president-biden-at-a-democratic-national-committee-reception-6/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden at a Campaign\_Reception"
---
 
Private Residence  
New York, New York

6:33 P.M. EDT  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you.  (Applause.)  Well, first of all, I don’t
know why you married this guy Tony.  He’s opening up your home again. 
And, you know, I think maybe the worst sentence in the English language
is: The President is coming.  (Laughter.)  It creates a lot of
problems.  But thank you both very much for everything and thank your
whole family.  
  
You know, Pete — I warned Pete when it was — when I got the nomination
that if I won, I was coming for him — not a joke — that I needed him in
the administration.   
  
I’ve been around — I know I don’t look it, but I’ve been around for a
lot of administrations.  (Laughter.)  And he’s one of the brightest guys
I’ve ever worked with, in any administration.  And the best thing about
him is he has enormous character.  He does what he says and says what he
does, and he makes no apologies about it and gets it done.  
  
And, you know, I want to thank everyone here for the help. Without you
guys, I wouldn’t be standing here.  Some of you go back a long way.  And
I remember — you know, I was talking to, you know, Ted Kaufman, the
former senator who ran my office for years — one of the finest men I’ve
ever known in my whole life. And — and we were talking, and — and we
talked about how — he said, “You know, this campaign is going to be
tough.  It’s going to be, in many cases…” —  
  
And I know the press is here, so I’m going to choose my words so it
can’t be taken — not that they would ever really take them out of
context — but so they couldn’t be taken out of context.  
  
And that is that “…it could be a pretty ugly campaign maybe coming up.” 
I doubt whether any of us would have ever predicted that we’d be — you’d
be voting in a campaign where the circumstances were such that they
exist as they do today, particularly on the other side.  People say,
“Well, you know, congratulations on bringing back a little bit of this
or that to administration.”  It wasn’t a very high bar.  
  
But I tell you what, the bar still — still has to be crossed.  You know,
when I decided — and it wasn’t an automatic decision about running
again, not because I didn’t think there was more to do but because I
thought to myself, you know, four more years, I mean, six more years is
— is a long time.  It’s a legitimate thing to raise the question of age.
And I think it’s totally legitimate.  
  
And one of the things that is what Ted Kaufman said to me, my friend —
he said, “Joe, you were the second-youngest man in history ever to start
the United States Senate about a century ago, not quite.”  (Laughter.) 
“And you’re going to be the oldest President in American history right
now.”  
  
And, you know, there have been good parts of being the youngest and good
parts of being the oldest.  And I hope what I’ve been able to bring to
this job and will continue to bring is a little bit of wisdom — a little
bit of wisdom.  
  
When I decided to run this time, I made it very clear that I was going
to do what I thought was right regardless of the political
consequences.  And I mean that sincerely.  Not that I don’t take
people’s — I want to know what they think.  I want to know what is on
their minds and make a legitimate judgment.  But I’m not going to walk
away from anything that that I don’t think is the best thing to do.  
  
And I’m sure many decisions I’ve made and will make again won’t be the
best decisions, but I think we’ve made some pretty solid decisions.   
  
And the most important decision that I made when I ran this time, with
Pete’s help and others in the administration, is that I decided that we
were — I was going to be certain — excuse me — I was decided that I was
going to have an administration that leveled the playing field a little
bit more, gave everybody a bit of a fighting chance.  
  
You know, I come from a household — we weren’t poor. My dad was a
hardworking guy and did very well when he was a young man and lost
everything and fought his way back.  And my dad would get up every
morning, and every single morning was going to be the best day of the
year — best day the year.  
  
My dad was one of those guys when we — he ended up — when it all —
everything died in Scranton in terms of the economy, he went — didn’t
work in the mines, although my mom’s side of the family, they did.   But
he was — he moved to Delaware, where he had been raised as a kid.  
  
And we moved down there, and he was a salesperson. Got a decent job, but
started off, you know, cleaning inside of boilers or (inaudible)
motors.  And my dad was a — if my dad were alive and I wanted you to
meet my dad at home, if I didn’t call him and give him time to put on a
suit before you came over, not a joke, then I’d be in real trouble.  No,
I’m not joking.  
  
My dad was — was a quintessential gentleman.  Matter of fact, when I
graduated from college, we had the usual lunch after graduation, you
know, the parents take their families to.  And he said, “I’m taking you
up to Sardi’s.”  He said — I said, “Why’s that, Dad?”  He said, “I
haven’t taught you how to tip a maître d’.”  (Laughter.)  
  
But my point is this.  We lived in a three-bedroom house in a
development called Mayfield.  It was when suburbia was being developed
in the Wilmington, Delaware, area and a lot of suburban areas like
that.  And we had four kids and a grandpop living with us.  
  
And — and we never thought there was any — you know, we weren’t poor. 
My dad ended up managing an automobile dealership.  And I guess we were
just kind of typically middle class where we couldn’t — we had to figure
out how to get all four kids to college kind of thing.  Wasn’t — we
never thought we were missing anything.  
  
But my dad used to say, “Joey, remember…”  He said, “Joey, a job is
about a lot more than a paycheck.  It’s about your dignity. It’s about
respect.”  This is — my word as a Biden — this is a quote.  “It’s about
your dignity.  It’s about respect.  It’s about being able to look at a
child in the eye and say, ‘Honey, it’s going to be okay’ and mean it.”  
  
An awful lot of people the last three, four decades have gotten the
short side of that because of the policies that we changed — Democrat
and Republican administrations.  We decided it was a hell of a lot
cheaper to send — go abroad to make a product because labor was cheaper
and import a product that was more expensive because it was made abroad
because you could make more profit.  Not — not evil, but just —  
  
But I decided that wasn’t going to happen on my watch.  What was going
to happen on my watch was we were going to build from the middle out and
the bottom up.  
  
And when that happens, everybody does well.  You all do very well.  The
wealthy do very well; no one gets hurt.  Everybody has got to pay a
little bit of their fair share.   
  
And so, what happened was I decided that that’s what we’re going to do. 
And we did.  We focused on providing for bringing back manufacturing to
the United States, making sure that we had jobs that paid a decent wage,
making sure that we have access to education and healthcare.  
  
The idea that — I remember being down in suburban Virginia.  I think you
and I talked about this, Pete.  This woman stood up and said, “I have
two daughters with Type 1 diabetes.  And the prescription drug costs for
the insulin is expensive.”  I think she said at the time it was like
$900 a month.  And she said, “I don’t have enough private insurance to
do it, and we don’t cover it.”  
  
Well, I’ve been fighting Big Pharma for a long, long time as a U.S.
senator.  So we started an effort to make sure that we had — we pay more
for pre- — the same prescription drug invented here in the United
States, sold in Toronto or Paris or London or Rome, is significantly
more expensive here for no reason other than they don’t get the bargain
for the price here.  
  
So, we finally decided we’re going to have — make sure the Medicare
could — that if they’re going to pay for the drugs, they could say —
just like they can with veterans benefits — they could bargain and say,
“We’re only going to pay so much.”  
  
So, all of a sudden, what happened was we’re now in a situation where,
as of January 1, if you have — anybody know anybody who nee- — has Type
1 or Type 2 diabetes?  Everybody knows somebody.  Imagine being that
parent, spea- — deprived of your dignity, like that woman was in
suburban Virginia at the town meeting.  Has two kids, and looked at her
kids and know she can’t afford — she cannot afford to provide the
insulin they need.  She talked about how they would split it.  
  
So, folks, you know, guess what?  Well, it only costs 10 bucks to make
that insulin.  It was invented 100 years ago.  The guy who invented it
didn’t want to patent it because he didn’t want to monopolize it.  It
costs about 13, 14 bucks max to package it and the rest.  Well, guess
what?  Now we got the bill passed, and it’s 35 bucks.  Thirty-five
bucks.  
  
But more important than just saving people, guess what it does to
people’s peace of mind?  The ability to be able to just know that you’re
going to be okay.  Well, that didn’t occur until January because of the
way we got — had to get the law passed.  
  
Well, beginning this February — this next January, no one on Medicare is
going to be a- — have to pay more than $3,300 a year for drugs — all the
drugs they have, including cancer drugs that cost 14-, 15-, 16,000 bucks
a year.  They’re not going to have to pay more than that.  And by the
following year, no more than $2,000.  
  
And guess what?  Pharma is going to still make a good profit.  And guess
what?  (Whispers into the mic.)  It’s going to save the federal
government billions of dollars.  (Laughter.)  No, no, think about it.  
  
We’re in this fight about the debt ceiling.  I point out that’s how you
cut the debt.  I just cut it $169 billion — billion — just on insulin. 
(Applause.)  Because the government is not paying it out.  
  
Well, another $200 billion is in the works because now — now, if they
charge — if they charge more than — more than the cost of inflation for
the drug without investing more in what they did to make it better, then
guess what?  They have to pay it back.  
  
My generic point is that it’s changing people’s lives, but it’s also
smart government.  It is reducing the price of — the tax burden to the
American people.  
  
We came along and said let’s talk about the environment.  We passed the
legislation.  Well, we have $368 billion in environmental — the single
largest investment to deal with climate change anywhere — and not just
the United States, but the world, and all of human history.  And guess
what?  It’s working.  It’s working.  
  
For example, read the New York Times front-page article on Monday.  It
points out Texas has the highest percentage of wind, solar, biofuels, et
cetera.  And guess what?  It’s working.  And it’s cheaper than renew- —
than — renewables are cheaper — cheaper, cheaper — than fossil fuels. 
But guess what?  They want to get rid of it.  Why do you think this new
— this new outfit in the House wants to get rid of the legislation? 
Because it’s, quote, “costing the government money,” giving a company —
it’s the first time I’ve ever heard them be upset giving a country a tax
break — a company a tax break.  
  
But gue- — so, my point is that it’s beginning to take hold.  The only
existential threat any of us face, and our children and grandchildren
face, is climate.  If we, in fact, go above 1.5 degrees Celsius over the
next period of time, it’s not — you’re not turning it around.  
  
And, by the way, all of a sudden, everyone — as they say in the southern
part of Delaware — *talk at you like this*.  (Said in southern accent.) 
You know what I mean?  Everybody’s had an altar call.  They’ve seen the
Lord.  
  
I have flown over more — since I’ve become President, I’ve flown over
more burned timber and woodland than exists in the –than the size of the
entire state of Maryland.  And that goes from Arizona to Montana and all
the way across that crescent.  
  
And I know you know we don’t have any problems with climate change,
right?  No, all this is just normal what’s going on.  
  
My point is that there’s practical things we can do that don’t raise
people’s taxes.  Everybody still can make a significant profit in what
they’re doing.  And at the same time, we can save the government money,
to have money to spend on things that people need.  
  
Look, the idea that somebody is going to come along and not be able to
have — afford the Medicaid, be able to — you know, it costs them 800
bucks more to have the Medicaid benefits they need.  And the idea that
that — they want to get rid of that and cut that — why?  Why?   
  
At the same time — and this is not — I’ve been doing this a long time,
so I know it’s not smart with a group of very generous, wealthy people
to talk about taxes.  (Laughter.)  But guess what?  We’re in a situation
right now where if you — the idea that — for example, the gas and oil
industry last year made $200 billion, and that’s good.  But they’re
getting a $30 billion subsidy?  They need that?  They’re talking about
cutting the cost of government.  
  
We have a situation where — you know, I’m the only President in American
history that’s cut the deficit in two years in a row by 1 trillion 700
billion dollars.  No one has come close — not close — in all of American
history.  
  
The last guy increased the federal budget for the 200 years it’s been
being kept by 40 percent.  A tax cut not a penny of which was paid for. 
That was okay.  No problems there.  
  
My generic point is: What happened was, the reason I was able to cut
that much money and pay for all the programs I’m talking about — and,
actually, for the debt — the deficit, not the debt.  Guess what?  It was
easy, because there were 55 corporations — the Fortune 500 — that made
$40 billion; didn’t pay a penny in tax.  And I was so mean: minimum tax
of 15 percent.   Whoever cleans this house or this apartment, or my
house, ends up having to pay more tax than that.  
  
So all I’m saying is a lot of this is — I think the vast majority of
Republicans in the Senate still, and a significant portion of the House,
are still the guys and women I grew up with in the Senate.  We disagree
on fundamental things, but we don’t — there’s still a basic camaraderie,
a trust, a decency with which we treat each other.  
  
I’ve literally now had 12 senators I used to serve with — 12 — over the
last two years — actually, last 18 months — the first 18 months — say to
me, “Joe, I agree with you.”  And I committed I’d never tell the names
and I’ll go to my grave with never telling the names.  Some have already
spouted out they’ve said it, but I’m not going to say it.  “Joe, I agree
with you.  But if I vote with you, I’m going to — it’ll cost me my
seat.  And we’re going to get a primary, and the MAGA Republicans are
going to come and they’re going to defeat me.”  
  
Now, we don’t call that political courage, but it’s honesty.   
  
Let me — I’m taking too much of your time.  Let me just maybe —  
  
I’ve never been more optimistic in my life, though.  I really haven’t. 
We’re at a point in history — one of those — when I was deciding whether
or not to run again, I started –when I was a professor at the University
of Pennsylvania.  And — and I — and they gave me not only professorship
— paid me more than I get paid as President — (laughter) — which I get a
lot as President, but also gave me a several-million-dollar budget to
hire persons in what was — they calling the Biden School.  So I hired
our present Secretary of State.  I hired a lot of people who were
consequential.  
  
And in the process of all of this, what happened was I started to think
about, well, I was going to write another book.  I wrote a book about my
son, because I — I wrote a couple books, and they did well.  They were
in the best seller list and so on.  
  
But the one book about my son, Beau, I wanted — I wanted his siblings, I
wanted his children, his grandchildren, his great-grand- — to know what
an incredible man this — he should be the one speaking to you, not me. 

And the end result was that I made more money than I ever made in my
entire life.  For real.  I kn- — the entirety of my entire life — and I
— I did fine.  I wa- — I made 45,000 bu- — 48,000 bucks as a senator at
the time, which was good money, and then more as I went along.  And I —
I never struggled.

But the point was that what happened in the process of this: I wanted to
under- — wanted people to understand what it is that we can do.  
And I started writing a third book before I decided to run — and I’ll
end with this — and it was going to be what — we’re — I — because I
think we’re at a major inflection point in world history.  It occurs —
every 3 to 10 generations it occurs, where the decisions made in a short
period of time determine the outcome of what the next three, four, or
five decades are going to look like.  And we’re at one of those moments
in history. 

Post-war era is finished.  It’s done.  We have enormous opportunities,
enormous problems we face, whether it’s keeping Europe united — I mean,
I’ve known Putin well for over 25 years.  We’ve had many discussions.  I
know who he is.  That’s why I announced to the world he was about to
invade.  I checked to make sure no so- — no sources and methods would be
compromised.  Because no one believed the 185,000 troops he had at the
border, he was going to invade. 

“That’s not going to happen in the 21st century.”  Well, it did. 

And the reason I bother to say that is — and if you think about the
changes that are taking place — one of the discussions I had with Putin,
he was talking about how strong Russia was.  And I said, “Yeah.”  I
said, “But how about what…” — I was trying to get him to do two things —
this was two years ago — to talk about space weapons, weapons in space,
and making sure they didn’t happen.  And secondly, talking about the
environment. 

And I said, “You’re in eight time zones.  But guess what?  The tundra is
melting.  Melting.  It’s releasing more methane, which is four times
more toxic than anything else that’s being released, than CO2.  And what
are you going to do about it?  It’s not going to refreeze.  So what’s —
what’s your answer, pal?  What are you going to do?”

Even if he was a good guy, he’s got a real problem.  That’s why we’re
seeing competition for the Arctic Circle.  That’s why we’re seeing so
much competition in the north. 

And look what’s happening in the — in the Southern Hemisphere, what’s —
what’s going on. 

You know, you have — you’re going to have a billion people in Africa,
which we haven’t paid a whole hell lot of attention to.  If we don’t get
it right, we’re going to — talk about global warming.  How are you going
to control it? 

That’s why I convinced the G7 to decide on we were going to provide for
— G7+ — we’re going to — we’re the ones that cause global warming, but
we should help them deal with their — they didn’t cut down their
forest.  They didn’t —

We should help them.  So we’re, for example, investing money in Algeria
where we’re going to have the largest wind farm in — excuse me — solar
facility in the world. 

The point is there’s so much we can do.  I’m optimistic we can — because
now everybody is aware of what’s going on.  And there’s enormous,
enormous, enormous opportunity. 

I was asked — and I apologize, because the press heard me say this
earlier today as well.  I was asked by the — a — a serious columnist:
“If I could change one thing, if I could fix one thing, what would you
do?”  I said, “I’d — I’d fix cancer.  I’d get a cure.” 

And they looked at me, “That’s a strange thing.”  It’s not because my
son died of cancer.  Not be- — because a simple reason: It’s viewed as
impossible.  In America, we never crossed anything off the list. 

As I said when I was with Xi Jinping in the Tibetan Plateau — I asked
him — he said, “Define America for me.”  I said, “I can do it in one
word: possibilities.”  Possibilities. 

That’s why we’re the “Ugly Americans.”  We believe we can do anything. 
But we can, and we have. 

There’s not a damn thing we set our mind to, when we’ve worked together,
we haven’t accomplished.  Nothing. 

We walk around like we’re somehow paralyzed.  We’re not.  We’re not. 
And I think the rest of the world is waiting for us to step up. 

They checked out how many times — how many hours I spent with the
leaders of NATO.  Because remember, Putin believed that once he
attacked, he’d break up NATO, we’d never respond, we’d never stay
together. 

I spent over 190 hours with the NATO heads — NATO heads of state, either
on Zoom or in person.  And we’re holding it together.  No one — he never
thought we could hold it together.  Never.

Look what’s happening.  We’re able to change things in the South Pacif-
— I mean, excuse me, in the Indian Ocean and in — in the Pacific. 

I’ve gotten — it sounds awful, but I did — I’ve gotten India, Japan,
Australia, and the United States to form the Quad.  A fundamental shift,
changing the balance of power in that region.

China views as a threat.  Xi keeps telling me, “You’re trying to hold us
down.”  I’m not trying to hold you down.  I’m just trying to make sure
we understand what the international rules are, in terms of what waters
you can float in and what air you can fly in. 

Think about what’s happening.  When we talked about Europe and that —
what I kept being asked by Putin was — he wants to see the
Finlandization of Europe.  And I told him — and you may remember my
saying this publicly — I said, “No, you’re going to have the NATOization
of Finland.”  (Laughter.)

What happened, folks?  Eight hundred miles — 800-mile border along the
Russian border with a — with a country that has military capacity. 

And right after that, what happened?  Along came Sweden.  “Could I come
and see you in the Oval Office?”

My generic point is there are so many opportunities, not for war, but to
have things that are — in fact, provide for more opportunities around
the world. 

And, look, I haven’t even talked about — for example, this guy —
(gestures to Secretary Buttigieg) — has a small budget of a trillion 200
billion dollars.  (Laughter.) 

And one of the things we have to do — and I’ll end with this.  One of
the things we have to do — I’m getting exaggerated credit by a number of
presidential historians writing about “Biden’s done more in two years,”
et cetera. 

Granted, we were able to create over 12 million jobs.  We were able to
be in a position where we had 800,000 manufacturing jobs.  We’ve created
more jobs in two years than any President has in four, in the entire
history of the United States.  Not because I’m — it’s not that
complicated.  We gave America a chance.  We decided we’re going to
invest in America.  Invest in America. 

There was a law passed in the 1930s, when Roosevelt was President.  It’s
called “Buy America.”  Totally consistent with ever- — with every —
every trade agreement we’ve had in worldwide — around the world. 

Any taxpayer dollars being spent by the President of the United States,
on the behalf of the Cong- — the Congress gave them the money to spend
it — the President can insist that all of it be spent with American
manufacturing, with — with American products, and with American
personnel.   
  
There used to be — and that’s been the law.  But up to now, most
presidents said, “Well, as long as it’s 40 percent.”  With me it’s 100
percent, unless it’s extreme.  Well, guess what?  That’s why we have
800,000 manufacturing jobs.  When I get to spend $600 billion, and I’m
going to have to build new aircraft carrier decks, and I’m not going to
do anything other than with American workers and American products.   
  
That’s why Black unemployment is the lowest it’s ever been.  That’s why
it’s the second lowest rate for American unemploy- — there’s — I don’t
mean there’s not problems, but inflation, that is a worldwide
problem.   
  
But my generic point is this: There’s so many opportunities we have.   
  
And the truth of the matter is I think we can all, the vast majority of
Democrats and Republicans — mainstream Republicans and Democrats agree
that we can — we can argue within the — within the boundaries.  But this
new crowd doesn’t want —  
  
I know you’re telling me I got to go.  (Laughter.)   
  
But what we can — we can have this argument within the boundaries.  But
now we got folks who want to be outside the boundaries.  They want to
get rid of this.  They want to — the status quo ante.  When you think
about it, it’s about making no fundamental change.   
  
So if anyone thinks that the environment is not a threat, that the — all
the major, major scientists in the world saying, if we let the
temperature go above 1.5 degrees Celsius over the next several years,
that we’re never going to be able to return.  Well, if you think that’s
malarkey, then I get it.   
  
Most people who think it’s malarkey aren’t people who really don’t
believe it, but who think that they’re going to benefit by having to
continue things the way they are.  
  
On that score, I got — and, by the way, there’s a young woman in this
room belonging to this family who knows a lot about the environment and
cares a great deal about it.   
  
One of the stories they didn’t tell you upstairs was the following: I
found myself in a circumstance where everyone was saying, “Why hadn’t
Biden,” who — and introduced the first major environmental law in
American history, trading debt for forest, along with a guy named Dick
Lugar, a Republican — “Why hadn’t he introduced his position on — talked
about his position on the environment?”  Because — so what I did: I
brought all the automobile manufacturers to the South Lawn.  Not a
joke.  Number one.  
  
Number two, I had all the major unions in America show up.  And I
pointed out to them there’s more jobs in going green.  No, I’m serious. 
Not a joke.  There are more jobs.  There’s more opportunity.   
  
I got a call af- — I guess it was five days after the meeting with the
automobile industry, with the gentle- — the gentlelady, as I say in the
House of Representatives.  The gentlelady happens to be the Chairman of
the Board of General Motors.  She was suing California for having a
higher standard out of a tailpipe of a vehicle than the federal
standards, saying you couldn’t do that.   
  
I got a phone call out of the blue — not out of the blue, but out of —
you know, a few weeks later, saying, “I’ve dropped my suit, and I commit
we will go all electric by the year 2035.”  
  
It’s just smart business.   
  
When I went around saying I was going to attract — we invented the
computer chip.  We invented it here in the United States when we went to
the Moon.  We made it much more sophisticated than anybody did.  We used
to have a bulk on the market.  We’re down to 10 percent of the
market.   
  
So I said we’re going to fra- — attract private — private business.  So
we did the CHIPS and Science act.  We used to lead the world in the
percentage of investment we put into science: 2 percent of our GDP. 
It’s down to seven tenths of 1 percent of our GDP.  Well, guess what?  I
went to private industry.  The commitment: $450 billion off the
sidelines.  
  
Right here in New York State, up in Poughkeepsie, up in Syracuse, $400
billion committed to be spent to build these fabs — the factories.  And
guess what?  It’s not only the cost of building the factories, which is
the size of football fields, but — and that’s going to bring a lot of
good-paying jobs.   
  
But the permanent jobs within the factories, they don’t require a
college degree, and the average salary is going to be $100,000 a
year.   
  
My generic point is: There’s so much we can do.  We can’t lose sight,
though, of why we’re doing it.   
  
And I know I make some liberals angry.  I make some — I make everybody
angry.  (Laughter.)  But there’s a way to get this done — a way to get
this done — and get it done in a way that allows America to be what we
have to be — not what we just want, we have to be — the remainder of
this century.  And that is the leading nation in the world.   
  
Again, I’ll end where I began.  The former Secretary of State, who’s
passed away, said, “We’re the essential nation.”  She is absolutely,
positively right.  The essential nation.   
  
And, folks, like I said, everybody worries about China.  Do you know any
world leader who would trade place with Xi Jinping?  I’m not joking. 
Literally.  Literally.   
  
So, we have so much to do.  And the reason I’m running again is because
I want to finish the job.  Just get this next phase finished.  Nail it
down.  There’s a lot more we can do.  I think we can do it without it
being an ideological war.   
  
We can do it in a way that doesn’t require us to renege on the national
debt, which no one’s ever held hos- — held — held the whole Congress
hostage, saying, “If you don’t do what I want to do, which is go back to
the 2022 budget and make sure that we cut 22 percent across the board in
every single thing except defense…” — which means then you got to raise
it to 30 percent to cut across the board and eliminate all these
programs — “…then guess what?  We’re going to renege on the national
debt.”   
  
Over my dead political body.  (Laughter.)   
  
And if I do — if it happens, I will be a dead political body. 
(Laughter.)    
  
But anyway, thank you for giving me an opportunity to speak with you.  I
wish I could stay and take questions.  They tell me if I don’t leave 10
minutes ago, that I’m blocking —  
  
Oh, I — one thing I want you to do.  Come here.  I want you to introduce
you-  
  
I’m going to embarrass her.  Excuse me.  (Laughter.)   
  
This is my granddaughter.  I have — I have four granddaughters. 
(Applause.)  And they’re crazy about me.  (Laughter.)  Every single day
I text with them or speak to them.   
  
And I — the oldest one is a married lady.  You probably — we had the
wedding at the White House.  And she works for one of the mega firms —
the 6 million law firm peo- — you know, people law firm.  The largest
law firm in America.  To show how old I am, there was 102 people when I
got — anyway.   
  
But — and then this one, my number two — Finnegan Biden.  She works for
an outfit you’ve probably — maybe heard of, Bloomberg Environmental. 
Anyway, she travels around the world helping set up these COP
meetings.   
  
Number three graduates — she — my — I call her my — my — my all-American
girl.  She’s all-state in two sports.  She’s graduating from Penn in
four days.  And it’s — and I worry about her because she said, “Pop, I
don’t want to play sports.”   “You got scholarship offers to play in
college.”  She says, “It’s a 40-hour-week job, Pop.  I don’t know that I
can do the work.”  She’s graduating a 2.91 — a 3.91 from Penn.  And —
but she’s playing club —   
  
And then I have another granddaughter — my deceased son’s daughter.  She
just got — she only — she said, “I’m not going to college unless I go to
the college my pop went to.”  And she transferred, and she is now going
to start next year as a freshman at the University of Pennsylvania.   
  
And then I have a grandson who is going to be a senior in high school. 
And named after his — his dad — his deceased dad named after his uncle —
her dad.  And so, I’m a lucky man.  
  
Anyway.  Thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you.  (Applause.)  
  
7:08 P.M. EDT
