---
date: '2023-05-08'
modified_time: 2023-05-08 16:21:33-04:00
published_time: 2023-05-08 16:20:42-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/05/08/remarks-by-president-biden-on-airline-accountability/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden on Airline\_Accountability"
---
 
South Court Auditorium  
Eisenhower Executive Office Building

2:04 P.M. EDT

THE PRESIDENT: Thank you, Secretary Buttigieg. Thank you all for being
here. Please, sit down.

As we approach Memorial Day this weekend and — Memorial Day Weekend —
I’m rushing it — and a busy summer travel season, I’m here to talk about
steps my administration is taking to make air travel better for all
Americans.

The airline industry is a key part of our economy. And they’ve been
critical partners in a number of important initiatives, from requiring
employees to get COVID vaccines to addressing the supply chain problems
over the last couple of years.

But I know how frustrated many of you are with the service you get from
your U.S. airlines, especially after you, the American taxpayer, stepped
up in 2020, in the last administration, in the early days of the
pandemic, to provide nearly $50 billion of assistance to keep the
airline industry and its employees afloat.

I get it.

That’s why our top priority has been to get American air travelers a
better deal. We’ve made real progress, some of which you just heard.

Historically, when delays and cancellations are the airline’s fault, the
law has only required airlines to refund customers the price of their
flight ticket but not the cost of meals or hotels or transportation when
you get left in limbo.

In fact, a year ago, almost no major airline guaranteed any compensation
beyond the price of the ticket if they caused a delay — the delay was
their fault. No reimbursement for a hotel after a canceled flight or a
meal after a delayed flight.

But then we challenged them to do better. And, in fact, they did.
Airlines started to change their policies when they’re at fault for
canceling or delaying a flight.

Now, 9 major airlines cover hotels, 10 cover meals, 10 rebook for free.
And that’s real savings for middle-class and working-class families.

For example, to rebook fees, it could run as high as $200 per ticket.
Now you don’t have to pay anything to rebook for most airlines. And that
200 — that $200 is back in your pocket — even more if you’re traveling
with your family. But — but that’s not all.

At my State of the Union Address, I pointed out airlines charging up to
$50 a ticket just so you could sit next to your child. As I said,
baggage frees \[sic\] are — fees are bad enough without you knowing the
cost. Airlines can’t just treat a child like a piece of baggage.

Well, guess what happened? Major airlines changed their ways. American
Airlines, Alaskan Airlines, and Frontier Airlines — they agreed to
address family seating so parents can sit with their children without
paying an additional charge.

United Airlines also took important steps towards guaranteeing free
family seating beyond not — in other words, no cost beyond the cost of
the — the original cost of the ticket.

For families, that’s money back in your pocket. And that good — that’s a
piece — that gives you peace of mind. That’s progress. But there’s more.

Last fall, the Department of Transportation proposed a rule that will be
finalized this year. If finalized as proposed, it would require airlines
to show you the full ticket price upfront before you purchase it,
including fees for baggage, for Internet, for changing your seat. That
way you can get a fuller, more accurate price before you purchase your
ticket, and you can compare prices and pick the best deal.

But we’re not stopping there. We know how frustrating delays,
cancellations, and rebookings are for travelers.

Last holiday season, travelers were stranded for days and had to
scramble to find other ways to — for reaching their destinations. Many
missed family gatherings, spent Christmas at an airport, waited
countless hours in line or on the phone because there weren’t enough
pilots, there weren’t enough personnel. That’s unacceptable.

And while flight delays and cancellations have come down since then,
there’s still a problem. American air travelers deserve better, and
that’s what we’re going to do — that’s what we’re doing here today.

And I’m proud to announce two critical steps that my administration is
taking to protect American air passengers.

First, we just launched a new website: FlightsRight.gov
\[FlightRights.gov\]. FlightsRight.gov \[FlightRights.gov\].

It features a dashboard we created last fall to give travelers more
transparency into airlines’ compensation policies.

So, if it’s the airline’s fault and your flight was cancelled or
delayed, you can check the dashboard to see how the airline should be
compensating you, like rebooking a flight or accommodating your hotel
room or — and your meals.

And today, we’ve expanded that dashboard to include airlines
guaranteeing an additional compensation like cash, miles, or travel
vouchers.

But here’s the deal: If you look at the dashboard today, you’ll find
that only two airlines guarantee additional compensation beyond the
ticket refund.

If your flight is very delayed or cancelled and the airline could have
prevented that from — you deserve more than just being — getting the
price of your ticket. You deserve to be fully compensated. Your time
matters. The impact on your life matters.

That’s why I’m announcing a second critical step today to protect
American consumers.

Later this year, my administration will propose a historic new rule that
will make it mandatory, not voluntary — but mandatory for all U.S.
airlines to compensate you with meals, hotels, taxis, ride shares, or
rebo- — and rebooking foo- — fees, and cash, miles, and/or travel
vouchers whenever they are the ones to blame for the cancellation or
delay. And that’s all on top of refunding the cost of your ticket.

Airline passengers in Canada, for example, and the European Union and
other places already get these compensations. And guess what? It works.

One study found that the European Union required airlines to compensate
passengers for flight delays; the number of flight delays went down.

I appreciate Secretary Buttigieg’s leadership on this issue. And I hope
and expect the Department of Transportation to move as quickly as it can
to put this new rule in place. It matters.

I know these things may not matter to the very wealthy, but they matter
most to middle-class families and people struggling to get the cost in
the first place of getting that airline.

And — and so, look, these actions are in addition to other progress
we’ve been making to lower costs for American families, holding
corporations accountable, and grow our economy from the bottom up and
the middle out, not just the top down.

I signed a groundbreaking executive order on competition that is helping
us do everything from lowering the cost of hearing aids to banning
non-compete clauses. And in my State of the Union Address, you may
recall, I called for an end to junk fees — that is those hidden
surcharges that you see at hotels, concerts, and credit card bills that
you didn’t know about before you got the ticket.

I continue to call on Congress to pass the Junk Free \[Fee\] Prevention
Act, because that’s what American consumers deserve.

I’m going to close with this: We’re making progress, but we have more to
do to re- — to reverse decades of concentrated corporate power and to
continuing to lower prices and increasing opportunities for families,
workers, and small-business owners and entrepreneurs.

So let’s finish the job and remember who we are. As I’ve said many
times, we’re the United States of America. There’s nothing beyond our
capacity when we do it together. This is just about being fair. It’s
about being fair.

God bless you all. And may God protect our troops. Thank you.

2:12 P.M. EDT
