---
date: '2023-05-28'
published_time: 2023-05-28 20:11:54-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/05/28/remarks-by-president-biden-on-the-bipartisan-budget-agreement/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden on the Bipartisan Budget\_Agreement"
---
 
Roosevelt Room

6:27 P.M. EDT

THE PRESIDENT: I’m sorry to keep you waiting, but we’ve got good news.
We’ve got a — I just spoke with Speaker McCarthy, and we’ve reached a
bipartisan budget agreement that we’re ready to move to the full
Congress.  
And I think it’s a really important step forward — excuse me — (clears
throat) — and it takes the threat of catastrophic default off the table;
it protects our hard-earned and historic economic recovery.

And the agreement also represents a compromise, which means no one got
everything they want. But that’s the responsibility of governing.

And the — this is a deal that’s good news for, I believe you’ll see, for
the American people.

The agreement prevents the worst possible crisis: a default for the
first time in our nation’s history — an economic recession, retirement
accounts devastated, millions of jobs lost.

It also protects key priorities and accomplishments and values that
congressional Democrats and I have fought long for — long and hard for.

Investing in America’s agenda — that’s creating goods jobs in
communities throughout the country. It protects Social Security,
Medicare, and veterans, and so much more.

The Speaker and I made clear from the start that the only way forward
was a bipartisan agreement.

That agreement now goes to the United States House and to the Senate.
And I strongly urge both — both chambers to pass that agreement.

Let’s keep moving forward on meeting our obligations and building the
strongest economy in the history of the world.

I’ll take a few questions.

Q Mr. President, you said at the beginning that the debt ceiling was not
negotiable. Isn’t that what you’ve just done here? And isn’t that what
you’ve (inaudible)?

THE PRESIDENT: You guys — look, we’re not negotiating the debt ceiling.
Here’s the deal: They passed — they said they’re going to — if they pass
the debt ceiling, and they said they’d only do it on a condition that it
have all these cuts in it. I said, “I’m not going to do that. You pass
the debt ceiling, period. I’ll negotiate with you on the cuts — what you
say what’s going to happen, what the budget is going to look like.”

That’s what we are negotiating in order to get to them deciding that
they’re going to go along with a new debt ceiling, meaning that it’s not
attached. Something totally different attached that wasn’t attached
before.

But if you want to try to make it look like I made some compromise on
the debt ceiling, I didn’t. I made a compromise on the budget.

Q But that’s what they wanted, is you to make a compromise on the
budget, and that’s what you’ve done, even though you haven’t gone as far
as they wanted. Isn’t that right?

THE PRESIDENT: Sure. Yeah. Well — (laughs) — can you think of an
alternative?

Q Mr. President, what do you say to members of your own party who say
you’ve made too many concessions in this deal?

THE PRESIDENT: They’ll find I didn’t.

Q Mr. President, on your allies and adversaries to America, would you be
willing to say about what you think this process said to those
adversaries and allies? You have a deal now, but what does the process
say? What does the struggle say to them?

THE PRESIDENT: Well, it says we’ve been through this more than once, and
it’s just the nature of the way we handle the deficit and handle whether
we’re going to, each year, going to pay our debts. And it’s happened
more than once. It will probably happen again. But it’s not going to
happen at least for another two years here. And I don’t think beyond — I
think beyond that, it won’t either.

Q Mr. President, do you think it’s time for the U.S. to get rid of the
debt limit? That this is — you know, for that — the reason you just laid
out?

THE PRESIDENT: No, I think it would cause more controversy getting rid
of the debt limit, although I do — I am exploring the idea that we would
at a later date, a year or two from now, decide whether or not the 14th
Amendment — how that actually would impact on whether or not you need to
reduce the debt limit every year. But that’s another day.

Thank you all.

Q Mr. President, do you believe Speaker McCarthy has the votes? And did
he negotiate in good faith?

THE PRESIDENT: I think he negotiated with me in good faith. He kept his
word. He said what he would do. He did what he said he’d do. And I have
no idea whether he has the votes. I expect he does, or I don’t think he
would have made the agreement.

Q Mr. President, do you have a comment on the elections in Turkey? Have
you spoken with President Erdoğan?

THE PRESIDENT: I have not spoken to him yet.

Q Some of your Democratic colleagues are saying that this policy will
lead some people to go hungry. What is your response to that?

THE PRESIDENT: It’s a ridiculous acer- — assertion.

Q Do you wish you had started these negotiations sooner?

THE PRESIDENT: No, it wouldn’t have made any difference.

6:33 P.M. EDT
