---
date: '2023-05-20'
published_time: 2023-05-20 06:25:34-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/05/20/remarks-by-president-biden-at-the-partnership-for-global-infrastructure-and-investment-meeting/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden at the Partnership for Global Infrastructure and\
  \ Investment\_Meeting"
---
 
Grand Prince Hotel  
Hiroshima, Japan

5:42 P.M. JST

THE PRESIDENT: Well, thank you very much, Mr. Prime Minister.

Nearly one year ago, we made a commitment to commit not only to build a
better infrastructure but to build a better future, one rooted in
opportunity, security, and prosperity for all.

And thanks to all the public and private partners around this table and
many more around the world, we’ve already begun to deliver.

Together, we’ve initiated quality and sustainable infrastructure
projects across Africa, Asia, and the Americas. And we’re strengthening
our shared climate security, health security, and food security, and
economic security. All four are critical.

We started to engage more private investors to better de-risk and
leverage additional capital. And I see at least two from the United
States here that are de-risking a lot. (Laughs.)

And I’m proud to announce that the United States has already mobilized
more than $30 billion in investments to date. And we’re just getting
started.

Together, we have a lot of work to do to close the infrastructure gap
and for — in low- and middle-income countries. And as we begin the next
year, our partnership — we need to find new ways — new ways to maximize
investments — our investments.

That’s why, moving forward, the United States will enhance our focus on
investing in key economic corridors. In practice, that means making
game-changing investments in regions that could lead to positive impacts
across multiple sectors in multiple countries.

We’ve already started working with our partners to make this happen. For
example, in Sub-Saharan Africa, the U.S. Development Finance Corporation
is looking to invest in this first railway project on the continent. The
rail line would extend from the western shores of Angola to the border
of the DRC and Zambia, with the goal of ultimately reaching the Indian
Ocean, connecting the continent east to west for the first time.

This project would not only quickly promote trade and create jobs. Over
time, in my view, it will strengthen supply chains, incentive — and
incentivize investments in agriculture, and promote food security. And
it’s going to enable, in my view, us to better access clean energy and
digital connectivity across the entire region, creating more security,
more prosperity, more opportunities for generations to come.

That’s what our focus on the key economic corridors is all about:
investing in near-term solutions that pay long-term dividends.

It’s not only in Africa. We’re starting similar work in Costa Rica,
Ecuador, Indonesia, and other places I won’t bore you with now.

And let me close with this. During the G7 meeting, we’re addressing a
range of issues: climate change, food security, gender inequality,
economic resilience, digital connectivity, and global security. We’re
tracking these challenges together, and I think we’re beginning to make
some important progress.

But if we don’t move to do more to strengthen infrastructure in low- and
middle-income countries, if we don’t do more to help nations deliver
opportunities and prosperity for their people, our impact is going to be
limited.

That’s how the crit- — how critical this partnership is. That’s how
important our investments are.

So, today, as we began the PGII’s second year, let’s all find ways to
maximize our investment — maximize it — because it will do a lot not
only for that particular undertaking but it has an impact across the
entire regions, in my view, and — to unlock even more public and private
capital.

And together, let’s recommit to showing that democracies can deliver.
Let me say it again: Democracies can deliver. We have to deliver to
people around the world.

I want to thank you all for your partnership and leadership on this
vital issue.

And now I’m going to turn it back to the Prime Minister. Thank you.

5:46 P.M. JST
