---
date: '2022-08-19'
modified_time: 2022-08-22 11:09:26-04:00
published_time: 2022-08-19 07:56:37-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/blog/2022/08/19/united-we-stand-countering-hate-fueled-violence-together/
tags: blog
title: "United We Stand: Countering Hate-Fueled Violence\_Together"
---
 
*By Domestic Policy Advisor Susan E. Rice*

Hate must have no safe harbor in America—especially when that hate fuels
the kind of violence we’ve seen from Oak Creek to Pittsburgh, from El
Paso to Poway, and from Atlanta to Buffalo. When we cannot settle our
differences of opinion peacefully, and when ordinary Americans cannot
participate in the basic activities of everyday life—like shopping at
the grocery store, praying at their house of worship, or casting a
ballot—without the fear of being targeted and killed for who they are,
our democracy is at risk.

That’s why, on Thursday, September 15, President Biden will host the
United We Stand Summit at the White House to counter the corrosive
effects of hate-fueled violence on our democracy and public safety,
highlight the response of the Biden-Harris Administration and
communities nationwide to these dangers, and put forward a shared,
bipartisan vision for a more united America.

President Biden decided to run for president after the horrific violence
that erupted in Charlottesville, Virginia, in 2017. Since taking office,
his Administration has consistently taken steps to counter
hate-motivated violence—from signing the bipartisan COVID-19 Hate Crimes
Act, to releasing the first-ever National Strategy for Countering
Domestic Terrorism, to signing the Bipartisan Safer Communities Act, the
most significant legislation in three decades to reduce gun violence.

Even as our nation has endured a disturbing series of hate-fueled
attacks, Americans of all beliefs and political affiliations remain
overwhelmingly united in their opposition to such violence. The United
We Stand Summit will bring together heroes from across America leading
work in their communities to build bridges and address hate and
division, including survivors of hate-fueled violence. The summit will
include bipartisan federal, state, and local officials, civil rights
groups, faith and community leaders, technology and business leaders,
law enforcement officials, former members of violent extremist groups
who now work to prevent violence, gun violence prevention leaders, media
representatives, and cultural figures. It will feature a keynote speech
from President Biden as well as bipartisan panels and conversations on
countering hate-fueled violence, preventing radicalization and
mobilization to violence, and fostering unity.

And, we hope it will also include *you*. Communities across the country
will be invited to watch the summit live and engage in a national
conversation about standing together against hate-fueled violence.

**Nominate a “Uniter” in your community**

Across America, Americans are working to bring their communities
together across lines of racial, religious,  political and other
differences to prevent acts of hate-fueled violence, promote healing
where such violence has had devastating consequences, and foster unity.
These “Uniters” are bipartisan faith leaders and teachers, police
officers and mayors, civic leaders and volunteers, and everyday members
of our communities. Many of these Uniters are themselves survivors of
hate-fueled violence who have turned their pain into purpose. They hold
together our communities together and lift us up in the hardest times.

By September 1<sup>st</sup>, 2022, we invite you to nominate an
extraordinary Uniter in your community to be recognized by the White
House. Please visit <https://wh.gov/ope/unitedwestand> to share
information on a leader in your community who inspires change by
building bridges and countering hate-fueled violence.

As President Biden said in Buffalo after the horrific mass shooting
earlier this year, in the battle for the soul of our nation “we must all
enlist in this great cause of America.” The United We Stand Summit will
present an important opportunity for Americans of all walks of life to
take up that cause—together.
