---
date: '2022-04-14'
modified_time: 2022-04-15 10:44:26-04:00
published_time: 2022-04-14 08:11:38-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/blog/2022/04/14/getting-the-child-tax-credit-right-for-puerto-rico-the-american-rescue-plans-permanent-historic-changes-to-tax-relief-in-puerto-rico/
tags: blog
title: "Getting the Child Tax Credit Right for Puerto Rico: The American Rescue Plan\u2019\
  s Permanent, Historic Changes to Tax Relief in Puerto\_Rico"
---
 
*By Gene Sperling, American Rescue Plan Coordinator and Senior Advisor
to the President*

------------------------------------------------------------------------

A deeply troubling truth in the American tax system over the last 25
years is that the children of Puerto Rico were never given equal status
when it came to the Child Tax Credit.

Since its passage in 1997, the Child Tax Credit was expanded and made
gradually larger and more refundable for families with children in the
50 states and the District of Columbia. But it never reached the vast
majority of Puerto Rico’s children – because Puerto Rico families were
only eligible for the Child Tax Credit if they had three or more
qualifying children. This limited eligibility meant less attention and
focus and awareness even among families who were eligible.

The sad reality is that while well over 50% of Puerto Rico’s children
were in poverty, [only
10%](https://www.cbpp.org/blog/tax-credit-expansions-expected-to-significantly-reduce-poverty-in-puerto-rico)
of the commonwealth’s families with children were eligible for the Child
Tax Credit.

That all changed with the passage of the American Rescue Plan. For the
first time ever, this year, all families in Puerto Rico – regardless of
the number of children in their family – are eligible for the Child Tax
Credit on the same basis as families in the 50 states and the District
of Columbia. The difference is extraordinary. This tax filing season,
[97% of Puerto Rico’s
families](https://mcusercontent.com/35b40b9cf147af1ed5717180c/files/812ac348-c1a4-ce60-c924-7856ccbe747e/Child_Tax_Credit_impacto_trascendental_a_las_familias_conmenores_IDJ_enero_2022_.pdf)
are eligible for the expanded credit.

Ensuring all families in Puerto Rico file to receive the expanded Child
Tax Credit this filing season is especially critical because in addition
to increasing the Child Tax Credit to $3,600 for children under 6 and
$3,000 for older children for tax year 2021, the American Rescue Plan
made the Child Tax Credit fully refundable for all children. That means
that the families of nearly [27 million
children](https://home.treasury.gov/news/press-releases/Treasury-and-IRS-Announce-Families-of-Nearly-60-Million-Children-Receive-%2415-Billion-Dollars-in-First-Payments-of-Expanded-and-Newly-Advanceable-Child-Tax-Credit)
nationwide – including [roughly
half](https://www.cbpp.org/research/federal-tax/build-back-betters-child-tax-credit-changes-would-protect-millions-from)
of Black and Latino children – are receiving the full expanded Child Tax
Credit, who would have previously received just a partial or no credit
because they earned too little. And because Puerto Rico’s families were
not able to receive monthly payments in 2021, those filing will receive
the entire expanded credit as a lump sum, making filing this year all
the more critical.

Perhaps what is most consequential and not fully understood is that the
American Rescue Plan *permanently* ensures that, from now on, the
children of Puerto Rico will be on equal footing with children elsewhere
in the United States for the Child Tax Credit. While the Child Tax
Credit in Puerto Rico will be more impactful with the President’s
proposal to extend the expansion of the Child Tax Credit, and
particularly full refundability, the principle of equal treatment is in
law, forever, due to the American Rescue Plan.

This comes at a time when we have at long last ensured that workers in
Puerto Rico will also be treated more fairly by the Earned Income Tax
Credit (EITC). Before this year, Puerto Rico’s locally administered
EITC, when it was available, had never received federal support – and as
a result, the credit was significantly smaller than the federal EITC.
While Puerto Rico workers will still claim their EITC through their
commonwealth government, the American Rescue Plan is helping Puerto Rico
fund a dramatic expansion of the credit. The American Rescue Plan is
providing $600 million in annual federal dollars on top of $200 million
in Puerto Rico tax dollars, allowing Puerto Rico to more than triple
available EITC benefits for workers. This expansion increased the
maximum EITC for a family with two children from $1,500 to $5,500 –
bringing the credit broadly in line with the maximum benefit available
to a similar family living elsewhere in the United States.

That’s why getting the word out in Puerto Rico about the importance of
filing has been a top priority for the Government of Puerto Rico, major
non-profit advocates, and those of us involved in the implementation of
the American Rescue Plan. It is why the White House and the Treasury
Department have worked with the Governor of Puerto Rico and Mayors and
in constant partnership with key groups including the Youth Development
Institute (IDJ), Espacios Abiertos, United Way of Puerto Rico, and the
Hispanic Federation. And it is why we co-host a weekly call with
UnidosUS that brings together government officials and non-profits and
foundations from Washington D.C. to San Juan to coordinate outreach and
work through barriers to getting wide sign up for the Child Tax Credit
and the Earned Income Tax Credit.

The process hasn’t been perfect, but this working group of government
officials and non-profits in Washington and Puerto Rico has stayed at
it. The data we have so far shows dramatic improvement. We now expect
ten times as many families with children to have filed for the Child Tax
Credit this tax season as in previous years. This alone should have a
major impact on lowering the child poverty rate in Puerto Rico.

That’s also why this week, First Lady Jill Biden, Education Secretary
Miguel Cardona, House Chairwoman Nydia Velazquez, Deputy Secretary of
the Treasury Wally Adeyemo, and I held an event along with the leading
non-profits in Puerto Rico to do a final push for Puerto Rico families
to file for the expanded Child Tax Credit and Earned Income Tax Credit
benefits before the filing deadline.

And for families who do not file over the next week, we are working with
Code for America to launch a simplified filing portal for families to
claim the Child Tax Credit that will be available through the fall. The
more successful we are in ensuring every eligible household in Puerto
Rico gets the Child Tax Credit and the Earned Income Tax Credit, the
more we meet the President’s goal to lift up every American, to ensure
parents in Puerto Rico have, as the President says, “a little more
breathing room” when raising their children, and the more we will
significantly reduce the number of children living in poverty.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
