---
date: '2025-04-22'
modified_time: 2025-04-24 11:46:23-04:00
published_time: 2025-04-22 11:42:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/remarks/2025/04/remarks-by-vice-president-vance-on-the-u-s-and-indias-shared-economic-priorities/
tags: remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Vance on the U.S. and India\u2019s Shared Economic\
  \ Priorities"
---
 
  
Rajasthan International Center  
Jaipur, India

  
  3:17 P.M. IST  
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Hello.  Good to see everybody.  How we
doing?   
  
AUDIENCE:  Good.   
  
     THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Good.  Good.   
  
     Well, it’s an amazing privilege to be here in Jaipur.  I’m thrilled
to address the Ananta Centre’s India-U.S. Forum, and I’m thrilled to
have you all here with me.  Thanks to all of you, the business leaders,
decision-makers, and, of course, the students for being here.  And
thanks to our great team at the U.S. embassy for everything that you
guys do for our country.  
  
     In the United States, we’re proud of the deep connection between
our nations — between India and the United States.  Prime Minister Modi,
as most of you probably know, was one of the first visitors welcomed
into the Oval Office during President Trump’s second term.  And like
President Trump, the prime minister inspires remarkable loyalty because
of the strength of his belief in his people and in his country.   
  
     Now, we’re so grateful for Prime Minister Modi’s hospitality, as
well as the reception that he and everyone else in this country have
given us on this first trip for me to India.  This is my first time
visiting the birthplace of my wife’s parents, and she’s, of course, in
the front row there.  There you are, Usha.  (Applause.)   
  
     You — she’s a bit of a celebrity, it turns out, in India.  I think
more so than her husband.  But I haven’t been here long, but already
I’ve been fortunate enough to visit the Akshardham Temple — did I
pronounce that right, honey? — I did okay? — all right — with my family
this morning, as a matter of fact.  And last night, Prime Minister Modi
welcomed me, Usha, and our three small children at his beautiful
home.   
  
     I’ve been amazed by the ancient beauty of the architecture of
India, by the richness of India’s history and traditions, but also by
India’s laser-like focus on the future.  And those things, I think —
this appreciation for history and tradition, and this focus on the
future — is very much something that I think animates this country in
2025.  
  
     Now, in other countries I visited, it sometimes feels like there’s
a flatness, a sameness, a desire to just be like everyone else in the
world.  But it’s different here.  There’s a vitality to India, a sense
of infinite possibility, of new homes to be built, new skylines to be
raised, and lives to be enriched.  And there’s a pride in being Indian,
a feeling of excitement about the days that lie ahead.   
  
     Now, it’s a striking contrast with too many in the West, where some
in our leadership class seem stricken by self-doubt and even fear of the
future.  To them, humanity is always one bad decision away from
catastrophe.  The world will soon end, they tell us, because we’re
burning too much fuel or making too many things or having too many
children.  And so, rather than invest in the future, they too often
retreat from it.   
  
     Some of them pass laws that force their nations to use less power. 
They cancel nuclear and other energy generation facilities, even as
their choices — the choices of these leaders — lead to more dependence
on foreign adversaries.  Meanwhile, their message to their friends, to
countries like India, is to tell them that they are not allowed to
grow.   
  
     Well, President Trump rejects these failed ideas.  He wants America
to grow.  He wants India to grow, and he wants to build the future with
our partners all over the globe.  (Applause.)  
  
     And when I look at this audience or when I visit this incredible
country over these last couple of days, I see a people that will not be
held back.   
  
     Now, the most profound responsibility I believe that all of us have
is not to ourselves but to the next generation, to make sure we leave
them with a better society than the one that our parents and our
grandparents gave us.  And this is the world that America seeks to
create with you.   
  
     We want to build a bright new world, one that’s constantly
innovating, one that’s helping people to form families, making it easier
to build, invest, and trade together in pursuit of common goals.   
  
     Now, I believe that our nations have much to offer one another, and
that’s why we come to you as partners looking to strengthen our
relationship.   
  
     Now, we’re not here to preach that you do things any one particular
way.  Too often, in the past, Washington approached Prime Minister Modi
with an attitude of preachiness or even one of condescension.  Prior
administrations saw India as a source of low-cost labor on the one hand,
even as they criticized the prime minister’s government — arguably the
most popular in the democratic world.  And as I told Prime Minister Modi
last night, he’s got approval ratings that would make me jealous. 
(Laughter and applause.)   
  
     But it wasn’t just India.  This attitude captured too much of our
economic relationship with the rest of the world, so we shipped
countless jobs overseas and, with them, our capacity to make things —
from furniture, appliances, and even weapons of war.  We traded hard
power for soft power, because with economic integration, we were told,
would also come peace through sameness.  Over time, we’d all assume the
same sort of bland, secular, universal values no matter where you
lived.  The world was flat after all.  That was the thesis, and that was
what they told us.   
  
     And when that thesis proved false or at least incomplete, leaders
in the West took it upon themselves to flatten it by any means
necessary.  But many people across the world — and I think your country
counts among them — they did not want to be flattened.  Many were proud
of where they came from: their way of life, the kind of jobs they
worked, and the kind of jobs their parents worked before them.  And that
very much includes people in my own country, the United States of
America.   
  
     Now, some of you are aware of my own background.  I actually didn’t
plan to talk about my background at all until last night at dinner,
while my children mostly behaved — we gave them A-minus for behavior
with the prime minister — the prime minister said, “I have one request. 
I want you to talk a little bit about your background.”  And so, I
wanted to do that — for those of you who don’t know anything about me, I
wanted to talk about it.   
  
     I come from — and I’m biased — the greatest state in the Union, the
state of Ohio: a longtime manufacturing powerhouse in the United States
of America.  My home, specifically, is a place called Middletown.  Now,
it’s not a massive city by any means — it’s not Jaipur — but it’s a
decent-sized town and a place where people make things, which has been a
point of pride in Middletown for generations.   
  
It’s filled with families like my own, some of whom called us
“hillbillies” — Americans who came down from the surrounding hills and
mountains of West Virginia, Tennessee, and Kentucky to cities like
Middletown in pursuit of the manufacturing jobs that were creating
widespread prosperity for families all across America.  They came to
Middletown in search of what we call back home “the American dream.”  
  
     In Middletown, my parents raised me, my grandparents raised me. 
They taught us to work hard.  They taught me to study hard, and they
taught me to love God and my country and always be good to your own.   
  
     My granddad, who I called “Papaw” growing up, he typified that. 
Late into life, he worked as a steelmaker at the local mill, and I know
India has a lot of those.  Papaw’s job gave him a good wage, stable
hours, and a generous pension.  All that allowed him to support not just
him and my grandmother but his own daughter and grandkids with him. 
Now, by the time I came around, money was awfully tight, but he worked
hard to make a good living for all of us.   
  
     Now, I know Papaw and Mamaw were grateful for the way of life their
country made possible.  Their generation bore witness to the formation
of America’s great middle class, and by creating an economy centered
around production, around workers who build things, and around the value
of their labor, our nation’s leaders then transformed their country and
made thousands of little Middletowns possible.   
  
     The government supported its labor force.  We created incentives
for productive industries to take root and struck good deals with
international partners to sell the goods made in the United States of
America.   
  
     But as America settled in to world historic prosperity it
generated, our leaders began to take that very prosperity and what
created it for granted.  They forgot the importance of building, of
supporting productive industry, of striking fair deals, and of
supporting our workers and their families.   
  
And as time went on, we saw the consequences.  In my hometown, factories
left, jobs evaporated.  America’s Middletowns ceased to be the lifeblood
of our nation’s economy.  And the United States — as it became
transformed, those very people — the working class, the background of
the United States of America — were dismissed as backwards for holding
on to the values their people had held dear for generations.   
  
Now, Middletown’s story is my story, but it’s hardly unusual in the
United States of America.  There are tens of millions of Americans who,
over the last 20 or so years, have woken up to what’s happening in our
nation.  But I believe they woke up well before it’s too late.   
  
Now, like you, we want to appreciate our history, our culture, our
religion.  We want to do commerce and strike good deals with our
friends.  We want to found our vision of the future upon the proud
recognition of our heritage, rather than self-loathing and fear.   
  
I work for a president who has long understood all of this.  Whether
through fighting those who seek to erase American history or in support
of fairer trade deals abroad, he has been consistent on these issues for
decades.  And as a result, under the Trump Administration, America now
has a government that has learned from the mistakes of the past.   
  
It’s why President Trump cares so deeply about protecting the
manufacturing economy that is the lifeblood of American prosperity and
making sure America’s workers have opportunities for good jobs.  
  
As we saw earlier this month, he will go to extraordinary lengths to
protect and expand those opportunities for all Americans.   
  
And so, today, I come here with a simple message: Our administration
seeks trade partners on the basis of fairness and of shared national
interests.   
  
We want to build relationships with our foreign partners who respect
their workers, who don’t suppress their wages to boost exports but
respect the value of their labor.   
  
We want partners that are committed to working with America to build
things, not just allowing themselves to become a conduit for
transshipping others goods.   
  
And finally, we want to partner with people and countries who recognize
the historic nature of the moment we’re in, of the need to come together
and build something truly new — a system of global trade that is
balanced, one that is open, and one that is stable and fair.   
  
Now, I want to be clear: America’s partners need not look exactly like
America, nor must our governments do everything exactly the same way,
but we should have some common goals.  And I believe, here in India, we
do in both o- — economics and in national security.   
  
And that’s why we’re so excited.  That’s why I’m so excited to be here
today.  In India, America has a friend, and we seek to strengthen the
warm bonds our great nations already share.   
  
Now, critics have attacked my president, President Trump, for starting a
trade war in an effort to bring back the jobs of the past, but nothing
could be further from the truth.  He seeks to rebalance global trade so
that America, with friends like India, can build a future worth having
for all of our people together.   
  
And when President Trump and Prime Minister Modi announced in February
that our countries aim to more than double our bilateral trade to $500
billion by the end of the decade, I know that both of them meant it, and
I’m encouraged by everything our nations are doing to get us there.   
  
As many of you are aware, both of our governments are hard at work on a
trade agreement built on shared priorities, like creating new jobs,
building durable supply chains, and achieving prosperity for our
workers.  
  
In our meeting yesterday, Prime Minister Modi and I made very good
progress on all of those points, and we are especially excited to
formally announce that America and India have officially finalized the
terms of reference for the trade negotiation.  I think this is a vital
step.  (Applause.)  Thank you.  I believe this is a vital step toward
realizing President Trump’s and Prime Minister Modi’s vision because it
sets a roadmap toward a final deal between our nations.   
  
I believe there is much that America and India can accomplish together. 
And on that note, I want to talk about a few areas of collaboration
today, how India and the United States can work together: first, perhaps
most importantly, to protect our nations; second, to build great things;
and finally, to innovate the cutting-edge technologies both our
countries will need in the years to come.   
  
Now, on defense, our countries already enjoy a close relationship — one
of the closest relationships in the world.  America does more military
exercises with India than we do with any other nation on Earth.   
  
The U.S.-India COMPACT that President Trump and Prime Minister Modi
announced in February will lay the foundation for even closer
collaboration between our countries.  From Javelins to Stryker combat
vehicles, our nations will coproduce many of the munitions and equipment
that we’ll need to deter foreign aggressors — not because we seek war,
but because we seek peace, and we believe the best path to peace is
through mutual strength.  And the — launching the joint Autonomous
Systems Industry Alliance will enable America and India to develop the
most state-of-the-art maritime systems needed for victory.   
  
It’s fitting that India, this year, is hosting the Quad Leaders’ Summit
this fall.  Our interests in a free, open, peaceful, and prosperous
Indo-Pacific are in full alignment.  Both of us know that the region
must remain safe from any hostile powers that seek to dominate it.   
  
Growing relations between our countries over the last decade are part of
what led America to designate India a Major Defense Partner — the first
of that class.  This designation means that India now shares, with the
UAE, a defense and technology infrastructure and partnership with the
United States on par with America’s closest allies and friends.  
  
But we actually feel that Indir- — India has much more to gain from its
continued defense partnership with the United States, and let me sketch
that out a little bit.   
  
We, of course, want to collaborate more.  We want to work together
more.  And we want your nation to buy more of our military equipment,
which, of course, we believe is the best in class.   
  
American fifth-generation F-35s, for example, would give the Indian Air
Force the ability to defend your air space and protect your people like
never before.  And I’ve met a lot of great people from the Indian Air
Force just in the last couple of days.   
  
India, like America, wants to build, and that will mean that we have to
produce more energy.  That’s more energy production and more energy
consumption.  And it’s one of the many reasons why I think our nations
have so much to gain by strengthening our energy ties.   
  
As President Trump is fond of saying, America has once again begun to
“drill, baby drill.”  And we think that will inure to the benefit of
Americans but it will also benefit India as well.  
  
Past administrations in the United States of America, I — I think
<s>motifated</s> \[motivated\] by a fear of the future, have tied our
hands and restricted American investments in oil and natural gas
production.  This administration recognizes that cheap, dependable
energy en- — is an essential part of making things and is an essential
part of economic independence for both of our nations.   
  
Of course, America is blessed with vast natural resources and an unusual
capacity to generate energy, so much that we want to be able to sell it
to our friends, like India.  Well, we believe your nation will benefit
from American energy exports and expanding those exports.  You’ll be
able to build more, make more, and grow more, but at much lower energy
costs.   
  
We also want to help India explore its own considerable natural
resources, including its offshore natural gas reserves and critical
mineral supplies.  We have the capacity and we have the desire to help. 
Moreover, we think energy coproduction will help beat unfair competitors
in other foreign markets.   
  
But India, we believe, can go a long way to enhance energy ties between
our nations.  And one suggestion I have is maybe consider dropping some
of the nontariff barriers for American access to the Indian market.  
  
     Now, I’ve talked about this, of course, with Prime Minister Modi. 
And, look, President Trump and I know that Prime Minister Modi is a
tough negotiator.  He drives a hard bargain.  It’s one of the reasons
why we respect him.  (Applause.)   
  
     And — and we don’t blame Prime Minister Modi for fighting for
India’s industry, but we do blame American leaders of the past for
failing to do the same for our workers, and we believe that we can fix
that to the mutual benefit of both the United States and India.  
  
     Let me give an example.  American ethanol, we believe, made from
the finest corn in the world, can play a tremendous role in enhancing
our partnership.  And I know our farmers would be delighted to support
India’s energy security ambitions.  
  
     We welcome the Modi government’s budget announcement to amend
India’s civil nuclear liability laws, which currently prevent U.S.
producers from exporting small modular reactors and building larger
U.S.-designed reactors in India.  
  
     There’s much that we can create, much that we can do together.  
  
     We believe that American energy can help realize India’s nuclear
power production goals — and this is very important — as well as its AI
ambitions.  Because, as the United States knows well and I know that
India knows well, there is no AI future without energy security and
energy dominance.  
  
     And that brings me to my final point of collaboration.  I believe
that the technological collaboration between our countries is going to
extend well beyond defense and energy.  
  
     The U.S.-India TRUST initiative that President Trump and Prime
Minister Modi have launched will be a cornerstone of the partnership in
the future.  It’ll build on billions of dollars of planned investments
that American companies have already announced across India.  
  
     In the years to come, we’re going to see data centers,
pharmaceuticals, undersea cables, and countless other critical goods
being developed and being built because of the American and Indian
economic partnership.  
  
     And I’ll say it again, I think that our nations have so much to
gain by investing in one another: America investing in India and, of
course, India investing in the United States of America.  
  
     And I know that Americans, our people are excited about that
prospect and that President Trump and I are looking forward to stronger
ties.   
  
     Americans want further access to Indian markets.  This is a great
place to do business, and we want to give our people more access to this
country.  And Indians, we believe, will thrive from greater commerce
from the United States.  This is very much a win-win partnership and
certainly will be far into the future.  
  
     And as I know this audience knows better than most, neither
Americans nor Indians are alone in looking to scale up their
manufacturing capacity.  The competition extends well beyond cheap
consumer goods and into munitions, energy infrastructure, and all sorts
of other cutting-edge technologies.  I believe that if our nations fail
to keep pace, the consequences for the Indo-Pacific, but really the
consequences for the entire world, will be quite dire.  
  
     And this, again, is where India and the United States have so much
to offer one another.  We’ve got great hardware — the leading artificial
intelligence hardware in the world.  You have one of the most exciting
start-up technology infrastructures anywhere in the world.  
  
     There’s a lot to be gained by working together, and this is why
President Trump and I both welcome India’s leadership in a number of
diplomatic organizations, but, of course, in the Quad.  
  
     We believe a stronger India means greater economic prosperity but
also greater stability across the Indo-Pacific, which is, of course, a
shared goal for all of us in this room and is a shared goal for both of
our countries.  
  
     I want to close with — with one last story, or maybe a couple of
stories.  So, you know, my — my son Ewan is seven years old.  He’s our
firstborn son.  And yesterday, after we — we had dinner at the prime
minister’s house, the food was so good and the prime minister was so
kind to our three children that Ewan came up to me afterwards, and he
said, “Dad, you know, I think maybe I could live in India.”  (Laughter
and applause.)   
  
     And — but I think after about 90 minutes in the Jaipur sun today at
the great palace — (laughter) — he suggested that maybe we should move
to England.  (Laughter.)  So, you take the — the good with the bad
here.  
  
     But I — I want to talk about Prime Minister Modi because I think
he’s a special person.  I first met Prime Minister Modi at the AI Action
Summit in February, and we had a lot of important discussions on AI and
other policies to prepare for.   
  
     The prime minister also managed to figure out that my son Vivek was
actually turning five years old on the trip.  This was in Paris just a
couple of months ago.  
  
     So, think about this.  Amid a huge international policy conference,
he took the time to stop by where I was staying; wish our second son,
Vivek, a happy birthday; and even bring him a gift.  Usha and I were
both genuinely touched by his graciousness, and we have been even more
impressed by his warmth since we arrived in India.  
  
     Now, it’s interesting.  Some of you may know that when you’re a
politician, your kids spend almost as much time in the limelight as you
do.  And the — the great things about kids is they are brutally honest. 
They’re brutally honest with everybody, whether you want them to be or
not.   
  
     And our seven-year-old, our five-year-old, and then our — our
three-year-old baby girl, Mirabel — it’s interesting.  They have only
really been — they’ve only really attached themselves to; they’ve only
really liked, I should say; they’ve only really built a rapport with —
with two world leaders.   
  
     The fors- — first, of course, is President Trump.  He just has a
certain energy about them — about him.  But Prime Minister Modi, it’s
the exact same thing. Our kids just like him.  And I think that because
kids are such good <s>strong</s> \[judge\] of characters, I just like
Prime Minister Modi too, and I think it’s a great foundation for the
future of our relationship.  (Applause.)  
  
     I could tell then — I could tell when Prime Minister Modi came over
a couple of months ago and I believe today that he is a serious leader
who has thought deeply about India’s future prosperity and security, not
just for the rest of his time in office but over the next century.  
  
     And I want to end by making a simple overarching point.  We are now
officially one quarter into the 21st century — 25 years in, 75 years to
go.  And I really believe that the future of the 21st century is going
to be determined by the strength of the United States-India
partnership.  I believe — (applause) — thank you.  
  
     I believe that if India and the United States work together
successfully, we are going to see a 21st century that is prosperous and
peaceful.  But I also believe that if we fail to work together
successfully, the 21st century could be a very dark time for all of
humanity.   
  
     So, I want to say, it’s — it’s clear to me, as it is to most
observers, that President Trump, of course, intends to rebalance
America’s economic relationship with the rest of the world.  That’s
going to cause — fundamentally will cause profound changes within our
borders in the United States, but, of course, with other countries as
well.  
  
     But I believe that this rebalancing is going to produce great
benefits for American workers, it’s going to produce great benefits for
the people of India, and because our partnership is so important to the
future of the world, I believe President Trump’s efforts, joined, of
course, by the whole country of India and Prime Minister Modi, will make
the 21st century the best century in human history.  Let’s do it
together.  
  
     God bless you.  And thank you for having me.  (Applause.)  
  
                             END                3:42 P.M. IST
