---
date: '2023-10-03'
modified_time: 2023-10-03 20:13:01-04:00
published_time: 2023-10-03 20:11:47-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/10/03/readout-of-meeting-with-lin-manuel-miranda-and-the-professional-non-profit-theater-coalition-on-the-biden-harris-administrations-commitment-to-the-arts-and-humanities/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Readout of Meeting with Lin-Manuel Miranda and the Professional Non-Profit\
  \ Theater Coalition on the Biden-\u2060Harris Administration\u2019s Commitment to\
  \ the Arts and\_Humanities"
---
 
Last week, Senior Advisor to the President and Director of the Office of
Public Engagement Stephen Benjamin, Domestic Policy Council
Director Neera Tanden, Office of Management and Budget Director Shalanda
Young, National Economic Council Director Lael Brainard, Senior Advisor
and Infrastructure Coordinator Mitch Landrieu, and National Endowment
for the Arts (NEA) Chair Maria Jackson met with Lin-Manuel Miranda and
the Professional Non-Profit Theater Coalition. 

This National Arts and Humanities Month, the Biden-Harris
Administration reaffirms its commitment to promoting the arts and
humanities as part of broader efforts to restore the soul of
America. The American Rescue Plan invested over $1 billion to help
theaters, concert halls, libraries, and other venues, and the
Administration has invested hundreds of millions more into strengthening
the NEA and the National Endowment for the Humanities (NEH). A year
ago, President Biden signed an [Executive
Order](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/09/30/executive-order-on-promoting-the-arts-the-humanities-and-museum-and-library-services/) to
make art more accessible to people from underserved communities, elevate
new voices through the arts and humanities, and expand opportunities for
artists and scholars. The Executive Order also re-established the
President’s Committee on the Arts and the Humanities to promote
excellence in the arts, humanities, and museum and library services and
demonstrate their importance to our nation’s health, economy, equity,
and civic life. 

During the meeting, Lin-Manuel
Miranda highlighted the challenges facing the non-profit theater
industry and the impact on both artist employment and the broader
economy. Director Benjamin affirmed the Administration’s commitment to
American arts culture and theater. Director Tanden affirmed the nexus
between theater and community, and the importance of theater for mending
the social fabric and civic culture. Director Brainard emphasized the
role of theaters in supporting the economic vitality of urban downtown
areas and the Administration’s pandemic assistance to theaters
especially through the Small Business Administration’s Shuttered Venue
Operators Grant program. Director Young highlighted the Administration
budgetary support of the NEA which has grown to a historic high. Senior
Advisor and Infrastructure Coordinator Landrieu discussed the connection
between arts and job creation and the need to maintain the creative
economy. Chair Jackson provided an overview of NEA’s grant programs,
research efforts, and convenings to support the non-profit theater
industry and the arts overall. 

Participants of the Professional Non-Profit Theater Coalition included: 

• Oskar Eustis, Artistic Director, The Public, New York, New York 

• Danny Feldman, Artistic Director, Pasadena Playhouse, Pasadena,
California 

• Maria Manuela Goyanes, Artistic Director, Wolly Mammoth Theatre,
Washington, D.C.

• Leslie Ishii, Artistic Director, Perseverance Theater, Juneau, Alaska

• Chris Moses, Artistic Director, Alliance Theatre, Atlanta, Georgia

\###  
