---
date: '2023-10-27'
published_time: 2023-10-27 10:18:24-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/10/27/first-lady-jill-biden-announces-new-virtual-white-house-tour/
tags: statements-releases
title: "First Lady Jill\_Biden Announces New Virtual White\_House\_Tour"
---
 
**Virtual Tour Available on
[WhiteHouse.gov/VirtualTour](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=693654164e35d23cf57d8c4a6&id=cef6e8893d&e=e1243347e5)**

WASHINGTON, D.C. – Today, on National Civics Day, First Lady Jill Biden
is launching a new virtual tour of the White House.  The White House,
Google Maps, and Google Arts & Culture have collaborated to create a new
virtual tour of the White House using Google Street View technology. It
will live
on *[WhiteHouse.gov/VirtualTour](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=693654164e35d23cf57d8c4a6&id=a1d1843d1d&e=e1243347e5)*,
as well as on both Google Maps and the Google Arts & Culture page.   
  
“Since day one of this Administration, the First Lady has worked to open
the doors of the White House wider and wider, using technology and
digital platforms to bring the “People’s House” to as many people as
possible.  Not everyone can make the trip to Washington, DC to tour the
White House, so she is bringing the White House to them.  We especially
hope teachers everywhere can use this in their classrooms as a new
interactive tool to educate their students about the White House – both
past and present,” said **Elizabeth Alexander, Communications Director
for the First Lady. **  
  
This is the first Google virtual tour of the White House with available
Spanish translation and audio captions for those with disabilities. 
Audio captions were narrated by White House Social Secretary Carlos
Elizondo. The opening video on the virtual tour of the President and the
First Lady is the same video that plays at the White House Visitors
Center, so those who come for the virtual tour will get the same
experience and message as those who come in-person. 

  

*\###*
