---
date: '2023-10-27'
published_time: 2023-10-27 21:32:43-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/10/27/letter-to-the-speaker-of-the-house-and-president-pro-tempore-of-the-senate-consistent-with-the-war-powers-resolution-public-law-93-148-4/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Letter to the Speaker of the House and President pro tempore of the Senate\
  \ consistent with the War Powers Resolution (Public Law\_93-148)"
---
 
Dear Mr. Speaker:   (Dear Madam President:)  
  
As I have reported previously, militia groups affiliated with Iran’s
Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC) have perpetrated a series of
attacks against United States personnel and facilities in Iraq and
Syria.  Since October 17, 2023, these militia groups have conducted
numerous attacks using unmanned aerial systems and indirect fire,
injuring several United States service members.  A United States
contractor suffered a fatal cardiac incident while moving to shelter
during one of these attacks.  These attacks have placed under grave
threat the lives of United States personnel and of Coalition forces
operating alongside United States forces.

In response to this series of attacks and continuing threats of future
attacks, at my direction, on the night of October 26, 2023, United
States forces conducted targeted strikes against facilities in eastern
Syria.  The precision strikes targeted facilities used by the IRGC and
IRGC-affiliated groups for command and control, munitions storage, and
other purposes.  The strikes were intended to establish deterrence and
were conducted in a manner to limit the risk of escalation and avoid
civilian casualties.  I directed the strikes in order to protect and
defend our personnel, to degrade and disrupt the ongoing series of
attacks against the United States and our partners, and to deter Iran
and Iran-backed militia groups from conducting or supporting further
attacks on United States personnel and facilities. 

I directed this military action consistent with my responsibility to
protect United States citizens both at home and abroad and in
furtherance of United States national security and foreign policy
interests, pursuant to my constitutional authority as Commander in Chief
and Chief Executive and to conduct United States foreign relations.  The
United States took this necessary and proportionate action consistent
with international law and in the exercise of the United States’
inherent right of self-defense as reflected in Article 51 of the United
Nations Charter.  The United States stands ready to take further action,
as necessary and appropriate, to address further threats or attacks. 

I am providing this report as part of my efforts to keep the Congress
fully informed, consistent with the War Powers Resolution (Public Law
93-148).  I appreciate the support of the Congress in this action.

                             Sincerely,   
  
                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
