---
date: '2023-10-11'
modified_time: 2023-10-10 23:45:09-04:00
published_time: 2023-10-11 06:30:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/10/11/first-lady-jill-biden-announces-girls-leading-change-honorees/
tags: statements-releases
title: "First Lady Jill\_Biden Announces \u201CGirls Leading Change\u201D\_Honorees"
---
 
*In celebration of International Day of the Girl, the First Lady is
honoring 15 young women who are leading change and shaping a brighter
future in communities across the United States*

  
Today, in honor of International Day of the Girl, First Lady Jill Biden
will celebrate 15 young women leaders, selected by the White House
Gender Policy Council, who are leading change and shaping a brighter
future in their communities across the United States.    
  
As an educator for more than 30 years, Dr. Biden has continued to be a
champion for young people at home and abroad. Together with the White
House Gender Policy Council, Dr. Biden is hosting the first-ever “Girls
Leading Change” celebration at the White House to recognize the profound
impact young women are having on their communities and their efforts
strengthening our country for generations to come.   
  
“It is my honor to celebrate this exceptional group of “Girls Leading
Change” at the White House,” s**aid First Lady Jill Biden**. “These
young women are protecting and preserving the earth, writing and sharing
stories that change minds, and turning their pain into purpose.
Together, they represent the potential of young people across the
country, and it is my hope that others can learn from the power of their
innovation, strength, and hope.”  
  
In addition, the Biden-Harris Administration is
[announcing](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/10/11/fact-sheet-white-house-celebrates-international-day-of-the-girl-and-announces-new-actions-to-support-youth-in-the-u-s-and-abroad/)
a series of new actions that build on the Administration’s investment in
young people and expand opportunities for women and girls at home and
abroad. Since day one in office, the Administration has been committed
to ensuring women and girls have the opportunities and resources they
need to ensure their safety, education, health, and wellbeing.  
  
*“Girls Leading Change” will begin at 3:00PM ET today, October 11th, and
be available via livestream at wh.gov/live*  
  
**2023 Girl Leading Change Honorees**  
  
**Breanna & Brooke Bennett (Montgomery, Alabama)**  
  
Breanna and Brooke Bennett, age 16, are dedicated to ending period
poverty and ensuring everyone has access to the menstrual supplies they
need. When they were 12 years old, Breanna and Brooke were inspired to
give period supplies to girls in a public housing project in Montgomery,
Alabama, kicking off what became their organization, Women in Training,
through which they have distributed more than 30,000 kits with sanitary
pads and toiletries. Breanna and Brooke have also successfully advocated
for the passage of HB 50, a state law in Alabama that provides funds for
school staff to provide sanitary pads to students in need. They are
committed to building on that success and eliminating period poverty at
the national level.  
  
**Jazmin Cazares (Uvalde, Texas)**  
  
Jazmin Cazares, age 18, is a leading activist for gun violence
prevention at the state and national level. After her sister Jackie was
killed in the shooting at Robb Elementary in Uvalde, Texas, Jazmin spent
her senior year of high school traveling across the country and sharing
Jackie’s story. Jazmin spoke alongside March for Our Lives leaders at
the Texas State Capitol and testified before lawmakers. There, she
called for tighter background checks, extreme risk protection order
laws, and for lawmakers to “do something” to prevent future mass
shootings. Jazmin plans to obtain a master’s degree in psychology and to
continue fighting for her sister’s legacy.  
  
**Mona Cho (Redondo Beach, California)**  
  
Mona Cho, age 15, is dedicated to combatting online harassment and abuse
and the harm it poses to youth and teens. She serves on the Beach Cities
Health District’s Youth Advisory Council and is also part of the
District’s newly created Youth Health & Safety Committee, where she
leads a team of five students in a campaign to spread awareness on how
to stay safe on social media, and to prioritize mental health online. As
part of this work, she created a short film that follows real-life
stories of the impact of damaged digital footprints. Through the Plan
USA Youth Leadership Academy, she leads the Digital Online Safety and
Empowerment Initiative. Mona hopes to continue deploying film as a tool
to promote online safety and call for change.  
  
**Julia Garnett (Hendersonville, Tennessee)**  
  
Julia Garnett, age 17, is dedicated to fighting against book bans and
promoting educational freedom in public school and county public
libraries. In her school district, she advocated successfully for
student representation on book review committees and served on her own
high school’s committee. At the national level, Julia has provided
testimony before Congress on book bans and volunteers with Student
Advocates for Speech, a partnership with the National Coalition Against
Censorship. She is an organizer and leader on multiple issues, planned a
Ruby Bridges Walk to School Day, led a student walkout in protest of gun
violence, and served as the President of her school’s Gay-Straight
Alliance. Julia is committed to ensuring that youth grow up free from
censorship, with access to books that fully represent the diversity of
their communities and the world.  
  
**Logan Hennes (New York, New York)**  
  
Logan Hennes, age 16, is committed to combatting antisemitism in
communities across the country. Through the American Jewish Committee,
Logan has created and taken on a leadership role in supporting students
like herself who are working to address antisemitism in their schools
and communities, such as Logan’s community in New York City. As the
leader of her high school’s Jewish Affinity Group, she has hosted
speakers to raise awareness of rising antisemitism and supported her
peers in similar organizing and advocacy work across other communities
and issues. Logan plans to pursue a career in international relations
and U.S. foreign policy.  
  
**Anja Herrman (River Forest, Illinois)**  
  
Anja Herrman, age 17, is a disability rights activist and advocate for
equity and inclusion. She has led grassroots disability advocacy work,
including as a member of the Personal Protective Equipment for People
with Disabilities (PPE4PWD Coalition), which helped secure personal
protective equipment for people with disabilities during the COVID–19
pandemic. Since 2021, she has served as the youngest appointed member of
the Village of River Forest’s Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Advisory
Group. Anja is emerging as a national leader through her research,
speaking engagements, and publications. She authored a white paper that
highlights the need for school shooting plans that account for the
safety of students with disabilities through a fellowship program at the
Disability EmpowHer Network.  
  
**Leela Marie Hidier (Yarmouth, Maine)**  
  
Leela Marie Hidier, age 18, is a climate social justice advocate and
published author. Her award-winning debut novel, Changes in the Weather,
features four teenagers displaced by climate change in the U.S., coming
of age in a world and time of uncertainty. Leela Marie has been invited
to read from her work and speak at community centers, schools, climate
conferences, the Maine State House, and across her state. Currently on a
gap year, she is working in the nonprofit sector in Maine before
beginning college next year. She aspires to become an educator, and to
continue using art as a form of activism  
  
**Elisa Martinez (Las Vegas, Nevada)**  
  
Elisa Martinez, age 17, is an organizer dedicated to civic engagement,
particularly within the Latino community. She founded her school’s
Latino Student Union and mobilizes students on issues such as climate
justice and gun violence prevention. Elisa volunteers as a poll worker
to assist Spanishspeaking voters and ensure they understand their
rights. After losing her friend to a fentanyl overdose, Elisa has spoken
out about beating the opioid crisis and has joined the Trial by Peers
program to advocate for juveniles in the criminal justice system. Elisa
hopes to become a public defender.  
  
**Gabriella Nakai (Phoenix, Arizona)**  
  
Gabriella Nakai, age 17, is a Navajo and Choctaw leader dedicated to
furthering food security and sustainability, indigenous sovereignty, and
youth advocacy. For her work in growing sustainable, heirloom Native
produce and promoting seed saving and propagation, Gabriella was honored
by the Center for Native American Youth at the Aspen Institute as a 2023
Champion for Change. Gabriella works with Native American Connections on
addressing youth homelessness and mental health in Phoenix. She founded
the Native American club at her school, is a leader in her student
government, and hopes to continue serving her tribal community through
nonprofit work.  
  
**Zahra Rahimi (Alexandria, Virginia)**  
  
Zahra Rahimi, age 17, arrived in the U.S. four years ago from
Afghanistan, and has since dedicated herself to supporting refugee
resettlement in her local community, including access to English as a
Second Language services in Alexandria schools. As student
representative to the Alexandria City Board of Education, Zahra
organized cultural events and staff trainings to ensure the school was
prepared to receive new refugee families from Afghanistan. Zahra
partnered with Northern Virginia Resettling Afghan Families Together to
establish a special literacy program to support her largely female
middle and high school peers who were reading below a second-grade
level. In addition to her refugee resettlement efforts, Zahra is a
passionate advocate for advancing women’s rights globally, especially in
areas of conflict.  
  
**Gitanjali Rao (Highlands Ranch, Colorado)**  
  
Gitanjali Rao, age 17, is a freshman at the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology. She is a scientist and inventor whose groundbreaking lead
contamination detection tool won her an EPA Presidential Award and
America’s Top Young Scientist by Discovery Education/3M. Her book Young
Innovator’s Guide to STEM, which offers a prescriptive five-step
innovation process, is used as a STEM curriculum globally in selected
schools. Time Magazine’s first-ever Kid of the Year, Gitanjali is
committed to not only continuing her career as a scientist and inventor,
but expanding her STEM education initiative, which has already touched
more than 80,000 elementary, middle, and high school students.  
  
**Avery Turner (Colorado Springs, Colorado)**  
  
Avery Turner, age 17, is a high school senior and calls herself a
“seasoned mover,” having moved 10 times before her father recently
retired from the Air Force. Avery is committed to supporting military
teens, and currently serves as the Director of Programs at Bloom, an
organization started by military teens dedicated to promoting their
belonging within the military community and amplifying their voices. A
prolific writer, as well as a nationally-ranked competitive springboard
diver, Avery writes about her experiences trying to find her place in
the ever-changing landscape of military teen life in the hopes of
providing connection and community.  
  
**Sandra Ukah (Lake Mary, Florida)**  
  
Sandra Ukah, age 18, a freshman at the University of Florida, is
committed to civic education and community organizing. She was
co-founder and co-president of Seminole High School’s Black Student
Union, the first Black Student Union (BSU) in Seminole County, and she
later consulted with district members to establish BSU chapters in all
of the county’s high schools. Sandra served on her city’s Youth Council
for two years and became president, during which time she launched an
initiative on civic education to teach her community about the role of
local government, host voter registration drives, and connect government
to the community. Sandra hopes to work in civil rights and
constitutional law.  
  
**Rania Zuri (Morgantown, West Virginia)**  
  
Rania Zuri, age 18, is a third-generation West Virginian and the founder
and CEO of The LiTEArary Society, a nonprofit organization focused on
ending “book deserts” for disadvantaged preschool children. Since Rania
founded the organization at 13 years old, it has grown to donate books
to over 28,000 preschool children in federal Head Start programs across
all 50 states. The organization has received funding and partnerships
from Pilot Pens, Hershey’s, Scholastic, Starbucks, and others. Rania
plans to continue this work with the belief in the power of reading to
transform lives.
