---
date: '2023-10-25'
published_time: 2023-10-25 16:21:16-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/10/25/fact-sheet-white-house-calls-on-congress-to-support-critical-domestic-needs/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: White\_House Calls on Congress to Support Critical Domestic\_\
  Needs"
---
 
The Biden-Harris Administration is delivering on its promises – lowering
costs for families, protecting American lives from the devastating
impacts of challenges like the climate crisis and the opioid epidemic,
and ensuring America can compete to win in the global marketplace. At
the same time, additional resources are needed to meet the needs of the
American people, support our communities, and protect our nation and its
interests.  
   
The Administration continues to call on Congress to reach a
comprehensive, bipartisan agreement to fund the Government, which is
critical for a number of bipartisan priorities – including child care,
nutrition assistance, public health, research and development, and
national security. The Administration also recently communicated with
Congress about critical funding needs for the Special Supplemental
Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children (WIC), the Student
Aid Administration, and the Social Security Administration to prevent
harmful impacts on women and children, students, seniors and individuals
with disabilities in the coming year, and we expect Congress to address
these needs as well as today’s supplemental funding request.  
   
**In the meantime, in order to advance critical domestic priorities and
address urgent needs, the Biden-Harris Administration is calling on
Congress to provide [additional domestic
resources](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/10/Summary-of-Funding-Request-to-Meet-Critical-Needs.pdf) that
will:**

***<u>Support Communities Facing Extreme Weather and Climate
Disasters</u>***  
  
As the President has said repeatedly, the Administration will stand with
communities as they recover from extreme weather and climate disasters
for as long as it takes. The Administration’s request is based on
current estimates of need in communities affected by recent disasters,
and the Administration will work with Congress to continue to assess
these needs to fully support recovery and rebuilding. To meet our
commitment to communities facing flooding, extreme heat, catastrophic
wildfires, drought, and other severe weather events over the past
year, **the Administration is requesting:**

-   **Funding for the Disaster Relief Fund** to enable FEMA to continue
    supporting critical response efforts and recovery projects in
    communities across the country.
-   **Support for specific disaster-recovery needs,** including
    wildfires on Maui, the Guam typhoon, hurricanes in Florida and the
    southeastern United States, floods in California and Vermont,
    tornadoes in Mississippi and other natural disasters across the
    country.
-   **Resources for rural residents, farmers, highway repairs, housing,
    businesses, K-12 schools, and institutions of higher
    education** adversely affected by disasters nationwide.
-   **Funding to implement permanent, comprehensive pay reform for
    wildland firefighters** through the end of the fiscal year. Without
    congressional action, our nation’s heroic Federal wildland
    firefighters will face a pay cliff starting as soon as November,
    with salaries being cut by $20,000 or, in some cases, as much as 50%
    of base pay.
-   **Funding to minimize the economic and employment impacts of
    disasters,** including support for workers to meet cleanup and
    recovery needs following disasters, and for employment and training
    services to help Americans who have been dislocated or otherwise put
    out of work due to disaster-related impacts.
-   **Additional funding to states, territories and Tribes through the
    Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP)** to help cover
    home heating costs, settle unpaid utility bills, and make
    cost-effective home energy repairs to lower families’ heating and
    cooling bills. Last year alone LIHEAP served more than six million
    households. This funding is critical to preventing drastic service
    and benefit cuts compared to last year.

***<u>Prevent Families from Losing Child Care</u>***  
  
The American Rescue Plan provided the largest one-time investment the
country has ever made in child care, bringing vital relief to the child
care sector, which was already on the brink of crisis prior to the
pandemic. These resources enabled all 50 states and D.C. to make
payments to over 220,000 child care providers, serving as many as 10
million children, that were at risk of closing—supporting the creation
of more child care slots across the country, reducing family child care
costs, increasing compensation to recruit and retain staff, and helping
parents, especially mothers, return to work or enter the workforce.  
  
Without congressional action, the expiration of child care stabilization
funding at the end of September threatens to undo recent gains and
destabilize the child care sector. There are already reports of
providers needing to raise parent fees to help cover operating costs
that were subsidized by child care stabilization funding, or reduce
staff wages, exacerbating challenges in hiring and retaining qualified
staff. Some providers may be forced to close without additional
resources. If this trajectory continues, hardworking families will pay
the price—parents will be left with fewer child care options higher
costs—preventing parents from working and holding back our entire
economy. Addressing this challenge requires congressional action and
dedicated resources in addition to the existing Child Care and
Development Block Grant (CCDBG), which provides child care subsidies to
low-income families. As Congress works to reach an agreement on
full-year CCDBG appropriations, **the Administration is also requesting
an additional year of child care stabilization funding to help keep
child care providers afloat, mitigating the likelihood that providers
will close or raise costs for families.**

***<u>Continue to Expand Access to High-Speed Internet Across
America</u>***  
  
In the 21<sup>st</sup> century, affordable, reliable high-speed internet
is a necessity for Americans to do their jobs, participate equally in
school learning, access health care, and stay connected. But too often,
high costs create a barrier and tens of millions of families, students,
and seniors are left without access to high-speed internet, or have to
sacrifice other necessities to pay their internet bill, exacerbating
underlying inequities. The [Affordable Connectivity
Program](https://www.whitehouse.gov/getinternet/), enacted under the
Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, is already helping over 21 million
households save over $500 million per month on their monthly internet
bills. The program is also critical for the Administration’s high-speed
internet deployment programs for rural, remote, and Tribal communities.
Without this funding, tens of millions of people would lose this benefit
and would no longer be able to afford high-speed internet service
without sacrificing other necessities. **The Administration is
requesting additional funds to strengthen the program by extending free
and discounted high-speed internet for eligible households through
December 2024.  
  
*<u>Protect American Security and Bolster Energy Independence</u>***  
  
Alongside the [Administration’s
request](https://www.whitehouse.gov/omb/briefing-room/2023/10/20/letter-regarding-critical-national-security-funding-needs-for-fy-2024/) for
funding to address the challenges we face abroad, the Biden-Harris
Administration is calling on Congress to provide supplemental funding to
strengthen our security at home, including by protecting communities at
high-risk of attack, safeguarding our communications infrastructure, and
strengthening our energy independence. **The requested funding will:**

-   **Increase grants under FEMA’s Nonprofit Security Grant Program** to
    nonprofit organizations, including synagogues, mosques, and other
    places of worship, that are at high risk of attack. As the President
    has said, there is no place in America for hate against anyone.
    Grant funds would pay for strengthening facility security and
    increase coordination between nonprofit organizations and state and
    local governments.
-   **Fully reimburse eligible communications providers** for the
    ongoing removal of insecure equipment and software from
    communications infrastructure that may pose a national security
    threat to the United States.
-   **Mitigate domestic vulnerabilities and enhance U.S.
    competitiveness** in the global market for isotopes used in public
    health, energy, and national security sectors.
-   **Improve long-term, domestic enrichment capabilities for
    low-enriched uranium and high-assay low-enriched uranium**. This is
    a national security priority as dependence on Russian sources of
    uranium creates risk to the U.S. economy and the civil nuclear
    industry that has been further strained by Russia’s war in Ukraine.
    Without action, Russia will continue its hold on the global uranium
    market to the detriment of U.S. allies and partners. To be
    successful, this initiative would also require a long-term ban on
    enriched uranium product imports from the Russian Federation into
    the United States.
-   **Make capital improvement to the Strategic Petroleum Reserve** to
    improve the operational readiness and crude transportation
    capabilities, better positioning the SPR to combat global oil supply
    disruptions such as those caused by Russia’s illegal invasion of
    Ukraine and other global events.

***<u>Save Lives by Countering the Fentanyl Crisis</u>***  
  
Thanks to historic funding and bipartisan efforts, the rate of overdose
deaths is slowing after a period of exponential increase, access to
treatment is expanding, and historic amounts of fentanyl are being
seized at our borders. But our work to beat the overdose epidemic is far
from over and additional resources are needed to continue the
Administration’s aggressive action to save lives. As part of the
Administration’s *National Drug Control Strategy *supported by
the [National Security Supplemental
package](https://www.whitehouse.gov/omb/briefing-room/2023/10/20/letter-regarding-critical-national-security-funding-needs-for-fy-2024/) released
last week to crack down on the trafficking of illicit fentanyl, **the
Administration’s Domestic Supplemental request includes funding for
grants to States, Territories and Tribes through the Department of
Health and Human Services’ State Opioid Response (SOR) grant program**.
This critical program provides funding for opioid use disorder
treatment, evidence-based harm reduction services, overdose prevention
measures like naloxone, and recovery support services in all States and
territories. Since 2018, the SOR grant program has provided treatment
services to over 1.2 million people, and states have purchased nearly 9
million overdose reversal medication kits using SOR grant funds and
helped reverse approximately 500,000 overdoses.

***<u>Provide Food Aid to Support Emergency Needs Abroad and Farmers at
Home</u>***  
  
Humanitarian needs worldwide remain at unprecedented levels due to more
frequent and severe natural disasters and worsening food security.
Putin’s war on Ukraine is having a devastating impact on global food
availability and costs. Alongside the [$10 billion in humanitarian
aid](https://www.whitehouse.gov/omb/briefing-room/2023/10/20/letter-regarding-critical-national-security-funding-needs-for-fy-2024/) in
the National Security Supplemental request, **the Administration is also
requesting funding that will:**

-   **Help respond to emergency food needs around the world**. Funds for
    the Food for Peace program help combat malnutrition, improve the
    livelihoods of vulnerable groups, and mitigate the impact of
    disasters which are occurring with greater frequency. The Food for
    Peace Program uses food commodities grown in the United States by
    U.S. farmers to feed vulnerable populations in the poorest corners
    of the world.
-   **Provide resources for the McGovern-Dole Food for Education
    program**, which provides for the donation of U.S. agricultural
    commodities, as well as financial and technical assistance, to
    support school feeding and maternal and child nutrition projects in
    low-income, food-deficit countries around the globe.  
     

\###
