---
date: '2023-10-31'
modified_time: 2023-10-30 17:49:19-04:00
published_time: 2023-10-31 05:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/10/31/fact-sheet-president-biden-to-announce-new-actions-to-protect-retirement-security-by-cracking-down-on-junk-fees-in-retirement-investment-advice/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: President\_Biden to Announce New Actions to Protect Retirement\
  \ Security by Cracking Down on Junk Fees in Retirement Investment\_Advice"
---
 
*New proposal builds on Biden-Harris Administration’s work to eliminate
junk fees and promote competition—a key pillar of Bidenomics*

America’s families spend a lifetime saving so they can retire with
dignity. But junk fees are chipping away at their savings, going to
financial advisers with conflicts of interests instead of to American
families, and making retirements less secure.  
  
Right now, when a financial adviser provides retirement advice, they may
be paid by the saver or by the firm who makes the investment product
they recommend. Responsible retirement advisers deserve to be paid for
their important work. But when a firm pays a retirement adviser more to
recommend a specific investment product, that creates a conflict of
interest that often leads to Americans selecting an investment product
recommended to them that generates lower returns. And these conflicts of
interest are meaningful: an adviser may receive a commission as high as
6.5 percent to recommend some insurance products. When the saver pays
for advice that is not in their best interest, and it comes at a hidden
cost to their lifetime savings, that’s a junk fee.  
  
These costs add up. Requiring advisers to make recommendations in the
savers’ best interest can increase retirement savers’ returns by between
0.2% and 1.20% per year. Over a lifetime, that can add up to 20% more
retirement savings—potentially tens or even hundreds of thousands of
dollars per impacted middle-class saver that could otherwise have been
lost to junk fees. For example, advice rooted in conflicts of interest
regarding the sale of just one investment product—fixed index
annuities—may [cost retirees as much as $5 billion per
year](https://www.whitehouse.gov/cea/written-materials/2023/10/30/fiduciary-rule/).
This hurts workers, families, and the American economy.  
  
**That’s why today, as part of his broader Bidenomics agenda to grow the
economy from the middle out and bottom up, President Biden is announcing
that the Department of Labor will propose a new rule to close loopholes
and** **require that financial advisers provide retirement advice in the
best interest of the saver, rather than chasing the highest payday.**
This step would minimize junk fees in retirement products, promote
competition, and protect American workers’ retirements. Specifically,
the rule would:

-   **<u>Close loopholes so that recommendations to purchase any
    investment product must be in the savers’ best interest.</u>** Under
    the Securities and Exchange Commission’s (SEC) Regulation Best
    Interest, advice to purchase securities like mutual funds must
    currently be in the saver’s best interest. However, the SEC’s
    authority and rule does not generally cover commodities or insurance
    products like fixed index annuities, which are often recommended to
    retirement savers. Instead, advice to purchase these insurance
    products is governed by state law, which often varies state by
    state. These inadequate protections and misaligned incentives have
    helped drive sales of fixed index annuities up 25 percent
    year-to-date. The proposed rule would ensure that retirement
    advisers must provide advice in the saver’s best interest,
    regardless of whether they are recommending a security or insurance
    product and where they are giving advice.  
-   **<u>Cover advice to roll assets out of an employer-sponsored plan
    like a 401(k).</u>** Under the Employee Retirement Security Act
    (ERISA), the federal law governing retirement plans, advice that is
    provided on a one-time basis, such as advice to rollover assets from
    a 401(k) plan into an Individual Retirement Account (IRA) or
    annuity, is typically not presently required to be in the saver’s
    best interest. Yet, one-time advice is often the most important
    advice the retirement investor will ever receive and affects roughly
    5 million savers per year who are rolling their money out of 401(k)s
    and into IRAs. There is real money at stake. In 2022 alone,
    Americans rolled over approximately $779 billion from defined
    contribution plans, such as 401(k)s, into IRAs. The proposed rule
    will close this loophole to ensure this advice is in the saver’s
    best interest.  
-   **<u>Cover advice to plan sponsors about which investments to make
    available as options in 401(k)s and other employer-sponsored
    plans.</u>** When advisers make recommendations to plan sponsors,
    including small employers, about which investments to include in
    401(k) and other employer-sponsored plans, that advice is not
    subject to the SEC’s Regulation Best Interest and right now is not
    required to be in the customer’s best interest. Since most Americans
    primarily save for retirement through their employers, making sure
    the investments available to them are in their best interest is
    critically important.

The proposed rule builds on the Biden-Harris Administration’s efforts to
eliminate junk fees, putting cash back in the pockets of Americans.
The Federal Trade Commission proposed a rule that would ban businesses
from charging hidden and misleading fees and require them to show the
full price up front and a “click-to-cancel” rule making it as easy to
sign up for a service as to cancel it. The Consumer Financial Protection
Bureau took action to require large banks and credit unions to provide
basic information to consumers without charging fees. The Department of
Transportation has proposed several new rules that would lead to more
transparent pricing by airlines and reimburse customers when there are
significant changes to their flight.  
  
Today’s announcement also builds on important actions the Biden-Harris
Administration has taken to protect the retirement of hardworking
Americans. In December 2022, President Biden signed Secure 2.0 into law,
which encourages more employers to offer retirement plan benefits to
their workers and makes it easier for Americans to save. Additionally,
as part of the American Rescue Plan, President Biden signed the
Butch-Lewis Emergency Pension Plan Relief Act, which protects the
pensions of 2 to 3 million workers.

\###
