---
date: '2023-10-25'
published_time: 2023-10-25 15:22:44-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/10/25/united-states-australia-joint-leaders-statementbuilding-an-innovation-alliance/
tags: statements-releases
title: "United\_States-Australia Joint Leaders\u2019 StatementBuilding an Innovation\_\
  Alliance"
---
 
We, President Biden and Prime Minister Albanese, inaugurated a new era
of U.S.-Australia strategic cooperation during the Prime Minister’s
Official Visit and State Dinner in Washington, D.C., today.    
  
Our nations are inseparably linked by our common democratic values and
the three pillars of our alliance: defense, economic, and climate and
clean energy cooperation. As our alliance cooperation reaches new
heights, we are expanding our partnership into new domains to reflect
the evolution of our relationship and the growing complexity of global
and regional challenges. At the core of our cooperation is a shared
commitment to a peaceful, open, stable, and prosperous Indo-Pacific. We
reaffirm our commitment to work with Indo-Pacific partners and
institutions to respond to shared challenges and ensure a region that is
thriving, connected, resilient, and secure. These commitments are based
on respect for international law, including as it pertains to the
protection and promotion of human rights, and the sovereignty and
territorial integrity of states.  
  
Today we announce the pursuit of new areas of cooperation on science and
critical and emerging technologies so that we can build an “Innovation
Alliance.” These initiatives will augment and complement our robust
economic cooperation and trade; our foundational security and defense
ties; our newly inaugurated cooperation on climate, critical minerals,
and clean energy; and our enduring people-to-people connections.     
  
Steadfast in these values, we condemn in the strongest possible terms
Hamas’ heinous terrorist attack on Israel. The terrorist actions of
Hamas can have no justification, no legitimacy, and must be universally
condemned. We call for the immediate and unconditional release of all
hostages. Hamas offers nothing but terror and bloodshed. It does not
represent the Palestinian people, nor their legitimate needs and
aspirations.  
  
Our countries will support Israel as it defends itself and its people
against such atrocities. We affirm Israel’s inherent right to defend
itself. In doing so, in line with the values we share as democracies, we
call on all parties to act consistent with the principles of
international law and to protect civilians as an utmost priority. We are
concerned at the humanitarian situation in Gaza and call on all actors
to ensure the provision of humanitarian supplies to populations in
need.  
  
Our two countries support equal measures of dignity, freedom, and
self-determination for Israelis and Palestinians alike and we mourn
every civilian life lost in this conflict. We continue to support
Palestinian aspirations for a state of their own and consider a
two-state solution as the best avenue towards a lasting peace.    
  
**Promoting Advanced Technology and Space Cooperation**  
  
We welcome the announcement of a $3 billion investment in Australia by
Microsoft, which will expand the company’s data center and Artificial
Intelligence (AI) infrastructure in Australia over the next two years,
train more than 300,000 Australians with the skills required for a cloud
and AI-enabled economy, and create the Microsoft-Australian Signals
Directorate Cyber Shield to harden Australia from cyber-threats to
individuals, businesses, and governments. We also welcome the close
partnership between the U.S. National Science Foundation (NSF) and
Australia’s Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation
(CSIRO), including bilateral cooperation through the NSF’s Global
Centers initiative with up to $16.3 million for climate and clean energy
research, and an AI partnership supported by a combined $6.2 million in
grants to drive ground-breaking research. Additionally, the development
of a Memorandum of Understanding between Los Alamos National Laboratory
and the Australian National University intends to strengthen cooperation
in research and education between the United States and Australia.  
  
Our focus on innovation also extends to space, where we look forward to
tomorrow’s signing of a space Technology Safeguards Agreement that
creates the potential for new space-related commercial opportunities
while providing the legal and technical framework to protect sensitive
U.S. space launch technology and data in Australia consistent with our
shared non-proliferation goals. We also welcome progress in negotiations
of a bilateral space framework agreement, and encourage further joint
commercial investment across all sectors, including space situational
awareness and commercial space stations.  
  
**Building Clean Energy Supply Chains and Addressing the Climate
Crisis**  
  
In May, we launched the historic *Australia-United States Climate,
Critical Minerals, and Clean Energy Transformation Compact *(the
Compact), which affirmed our shared determination to make climate and
clean energy cooperation the third pillar of our alliance and counter
the threat to global security and prosperity posed by climate change. We
recognize that achieving the goals of the Paris Agreement will require
rapid deployment of clean energy and decarbonization technologies, and
increased electrification in our countries this decade, alongside the
phasedown of unabated coal power.  
  
Under the Compact, we convened the ministerial-level United
States-Australia Clean Energy Dialogue between the U.S. Department of
Energy (DOE) and Australia’s Department of Climate Change, Energy, the
Environment and Water. As part of our enhanced cooperation, we plan to
collaborate on clean energy supply chains with the intent to leverage
our comparative advantages and sovereign capabilities, beginning with a
battery supply chain working group to explore the deepening of both
countries’ manufacturing capability and work on battery technology
research and development. We also announced our intention for a
Memorandum of Understanding between the U.S. DOE Office of Clean Energy
Demonstrations and Australian entities. Australia and the U.S. DOE
intend to establish the Australia-United States Clean Energy Industry
Council, which will draw on the expertise of business and public finance
leaders to advise our governments on clean energy industry development
and cooperation.     
  
Recognizing that climate change poses the single greatest threat to the
livelihoods, security, and wellbeing of people and ecosystems in the
Indo-Pacific, we announce today that the United States and Australia are
working to jointly develop an Indo-Pacific Net-Zero Transition bond
series to mobilize funding for small-medium sized enterprises with a
focus on clean energy transition.  
  
The United States and Australia intend to work to enhance access to the
resources of the Green Climate Fund, and other relevant multilateral
funds, especially for those most vulnerable to the adverse effects of
climate change, including least developed countries (LDCs) and small
island developing states (SIDS). This effort will be advanced, including
through targeted bilateral technical assistance from USAID to LDCs and
SIDS, and in coordination with DFAT’s program of support to Pacific
Island countries

Recognizing the central role of critical minerals in the clean energy
transformation, we also applaud the successful launch of the
U.S.-Australia Critical Minerals Taskforce, led by the U.S. National
Security Council in partnership with the U.S. Department of Commerce,
and Australia’s Department of Industry, Science and Resources.
Leveraging the growing economic connections between both countries, the
Taskforce identified areas in which the U.S. and Australian Governments
can take joint action to increase investment in critical minerals mining
and processing projects in our respective countries and enhance market
transparency in this sector. A new Memorandum of Understanding between
CSIRO and the United States Geological Survey around critical minerals
aims to deepen relationships between U.S. and Australian researchers,
including on minerals processing.  
  
Prime Minister Albanese reiterated his support for President Biden’s
request of Congress to add Australia as a “domestic source” within the
meaning of Title III of the U.S. Defense Production Act, which would
streamline technological and industrial base collaboration and build new
opportunities for United States investment in the production and
purchase of Australian critical minerals, critical technologies, and
other strategic sectors. Taken together, these initiatives will further
our efforts to build more diverse and resilient supply chains.  
  
Recognizing the imperative to address non-CO2 pollutants as a key driver
of global climate change, we intend to continue to take strong action at
home on methane mitigation and consider opportunities to support
developing countries in the Indo-Pacific with capacity building
assistance on methane mitigation. The United States commends Australia’s
robust action underway at home to address all greenhouse gases,
including methane, as demonstrated in its comprehensive reporting of its
climate policies and measures in its upcoming climate change statement.
Under the Climate Compact, we plan to strengthen our cooperation on
non-CO2 gases in the coming years. Together, we are committed to
supporting the Montreal Protocol Multilateral Fund’s work to enhance
support for early action to reduce HFC consumption and for improved
energy efficiency for the HCFC phase-out and HFC phase-down in order to
maximize the climate benefits of Montreal Protocol implementation.  
  
**Advancing Prosperity and Resilience in the Pacific and Southeast
Asia**  
  
We are working through existing regional architecture, including the
Pacific Islands Forum as the pre-eminent institution for Pacific Island
Countries, to help the region meet its needs and aspirations, including
as articulated in the *2050 Strategy for the Blue Pacific Continent*.
 Australia welcomes the U.S.-Pacific Islands Forum Summit held in
Washington, D.C. last month. Signifying that commitment, today we
announce that the United States and Australia plan to co‑finance
critical maritime infrastructure projects in Kiribati, including the
rehabilitation of Kanton Wharf and Charlie Wharf in Tarawa.   
  
The U.S. Government, working with the U.S. Congress, and Australia
through the Australian Infrastructure Financing Facility for the
Pacific, intend to provide $65 million to finance future submarine cable
connectivity for Pacific Island countries, to assist access to global
markets and realization of regional connectivity goals. We plan to work
collaboratively with commercial cable providers Google and Hawaiki Nui,
in partnership with Pacific Island countries, to provide branching units
for Federated States of Micronesia, Kiribati, Marshall Islands, Nauru,
Papua New Guinea, Solomon Islands, Timor-Leste, Tuvalu, and Vanuatu.
Building on existing support to the region, this work will position all
Pacific Island countries to achieve primary connectivity and for
countries with existing access to secure options for critical
redundancy.   
  
Together, the United States and Australia will engage Pacific Island
nations to develop and deploy a pilot initiative in the region to
increase national cyber resilience, to include upgraded data services
and cloud-based back-ups. Australia also welcomes the U.S. International
Development Finance Corporation (DFC) and the U.S. Agency for
International Development (USAID) announcement at the U.S.-Pacific
Islands Forum Summit to launch an up to $50 million Pacific Islands
Microfinance Partnership that would facilitate lending for small
businesses in the Pacific Islands region.     
  
The United States and Australia remain committed to evolving
multilateral development banks to better address global challenges as
part of their contribution to reducing poverty, boosting sustainable and
inclusive growth, and helping achieve the Sustainable Development Goals.
We commit to raising the level of ambition to deliver more headroom and
concessional finance to boost the World Bank’s capacity to support low-
and middle-income countries in addressing global challenges and to
provide strong support for the poorest countries. The United States and
Australia will step up efforts to this end. Both countries continue to
cooperate through the World Bank and Asian Development Bank to promote
transparent, high-quality investment, including use of competitive
procurement focused on value for money and strong development outcomes,
that creates more opportunities for local employment and skills
development across the Indo-Pacific, particularly the Pacific
Islands.   
  
We also remain committed to working with Pacific Island countries to
maintain access to enduring banking services. Today, we jointly launch a
new Pacific Banking Forum, in consultation with Pacific Island
countries, to bring together our public and private sectors to address
the causes of de-risking, and we affirm our plan to provide new and
additional technical assistance to improve the region’s access to
financial services. We further intend to work with the Pacific to
address the costs and accessibility of correspondent banking
relationships, including by addressing jurisdiction-specific challenges
and exploring regional approaches to aggregate payment flows, as
appropriate.    
  
Australia welcomes the United States Coast Guard’s decision to forward
deploy a cutter to the Pacific in early 2024 to provide an increased
presence and support regional organizations to address maritime security
priorities, including illegal, unreported, and unregulated fishing.
Australia plans to support the Coast Guard’s increased regional presence
through logistical support during its periodic deployments to the
region.    
  
Recognizing the importance of greater cultural, business, and
educational exchanges with the Indo-Pacific, the United States welcomes
Australia’s establishment of a new Pacific Engagement Visa, to respond
directly to requests from Pacific Island countries and Timor-Leste for
access to Australia.  
  
We reiterate our enduring commitment to deepen our respective engagement
with Southeast Asia. As Comprehensive Strategic Partners of ASEAN, we
reaffirm our commitment to ASEAN centrality and ASEAN-led regional
architecture, and to supporting the implementation of the ASEAN Outlook
on the Indo-Pacific. We express our gratitude for Indonesia’s leadership
of ASEAN during its 2023 ASEAN Chair year, including the East Asia
Summit, and commit to support Laos as ASEAN Chair in 2024.   
  
We also commit to work together, and with like-minded partners, to
support Southeast Asia’s economic, development, and security priorities.
We resolved to align implementation of the Indo-Pacific Economic
Framework and *Invested: Australia’s Southeast Asia Economic Strategy to
2040* to boost investment in energy transition and other strategic
sectors and build supply chain resilience. The United States and
Australia also plan to support cooperation with regional countries to
promote a fair, open, inclusive, and sustainable digital economy.
Recognizing the importance of regional food security, the U.S. and
Australia plan to support ASEAN’s efforts to build long-term resilient,
inclusive, and sustainable agrifood systems, including through
strengthening regional agricultural research and development. We look
forward to furthering joint cooperation in Southeast Asia with regional
partners, including Japan and the Republic of Korea.  
  
**Enhancing Defense and Security Cooperation**  
  
Recognizing the historic and strategically significant defense
announcements made at AUSMIN 2023, we welcome the progress on the
delivery of our ambitious trajectory for Enhanced Force Posture
Cooperation, including the rotation of U.S. Army Watercraft in Australia
commencing in July, and scoping of upgrades at key Australian bases in
the north. We also welcome the completion of a new fuel facility at RAAF
Base Darwin in support of Enhanced Air Cooperation between the United
States and Australia. We strongly endorse the work under way to
establish guided weapons co-production, as a first step towards higher
volumes of industrial production for the alliance. We applaud the
implementation of the Australia-Japan Reciprocal Access Agreement, which
has already deepened exercise collaboration and capabilities
integration, paving the way for Australia’s first ever participation in
Exercises YAMA SAKURA and KEEN EDGE in Japan. Today, we announce our
intention to explore trilateral cooperation with Japan on Unmanned
Aerial Systems. Our cooperation aims to enhance interoperability and
accelerate technology transfer in the rapidly emerging field of
collaborative combat aircraft and autonomy.  
  
We also affirm our commitment to bilateral cooperation on collaborative
combat aircraft. Our cooperation will enhance interoperability and
accelerate technology transfer in the rapidly emerging field of Unmanned
Aerial Systems. In addition, Australia welcomes the U.S. decision to
acquire the E-7A Wedgetail, and continued U.S. cooperation with
Australia to ensure we can jointly develop and operate advanced military
capabilities.  
  
We note the substantial progress being made to support Australia’s
acquisition of conventionally-armed, nuclear‑powered submarines through
the trilateral AUKUS partnership while ensuring that these activities
set the highest nuclear non-proliferation standard and are consistent
with the partners’ international and domestic obligations and
commitments. Since we stood together in San Diego and announced the
pathway for Australia to acquire conventionally-armed, nuclear-powered
submarines (SSNs) in March, the first Australian military personnel have
graduated from U.S. nuclear power school, and the U.S.S. North Carolina
has completed the first SSN port visit to Australia in support of AUKUS.
We also strongly support our deepened cooperation on advanced
capabilities under AUKUS. We continue to make progress across our
current capability development programs, including holding the first
demonstration of AUKUS artificial intelligence and autonomous
capabilities. As our work progresses on these and other defense and
security capabilities, we will seek opportunities to engage allies and
close partners. Our efforts through AUKUS are one of the many ways we
are working together to deter aggression and support a free and open
Indo-Pacific that is secure and stable.  
  
We welcome the momentum and significant steps underway to streamline
defense trade controls and information sharing between our nations, as
part of our shared commitment to maximizing the strategic and
technological advantage of the Alliance and to maximize the full
potential of AUKUS. Australia acknowledges the U.S. Administration’s
significant steps in this regard, including the Biden Administration’s
bold proposal to Congress that would transform export controls
laws. Australia is also examining its export controls framework to
streamline the flow of defense information and technology and is taking
steps to realize this ambition. Collectively these actions are designed
to enhance and expedite collaboration between and among AUKUS
partners to help us maintain our capability edge, while strengthening
our ability to protect the sensitive technologies that underpin our
security. Furthermore, we reiterate our joint commitment to
strengthening security standards to safeguard sensitive technology and
information.  
  
We also affirm the importance of strengthening our cyber security in
response to increasing global threats. The United States and Australia
have a shared interest in promoting a safer and more secure cyberspace
bilaterally and in multilateral forums, including with the Partners in
the Blue Pacific, the Quad, and the International Counter Ransomware
Initiative.  
  
At AUSMIN 2011, both governments recognized that in the event of a
cyberattack that threatens the territorial integrity, political
independence, or security of either of our nations, under the ANZUS
Treaty, the United States and Australia would consult together and
determine appropriate options to address the threat. Today, we reaffirm
that international law applies in cyberspace and that a cyberattack on
our nations could constitute an armed attack under Article IV of the
ANZUS Treaty. A decision as to when such a cyberattack would lead to the
invocation of Article IV would be made on a case-by-case basis through
close consultations between the United States and Australia.   
  
We affirm that States should take appropriate measures to ensure the
responsible development, deployment, and use of their military AI
capabilities, including those enabling autonomous functions and
systems.  
  
**Strengthening our Economic Security and Resilience**  
  
We affirm our intention to continue increasing cooperation to build our
shared economic security and resilience, including by promoting open,
fair, and rules-based trade, countering non-market policies and
practices, and deterring and addressing economic coercion. We intend to
increase our cooperation to address these practices, including with
other partners and allies.  
  
As we strengthen and integrate our innovation ecosystems, we have a
shared interest in enhancing our technology protection toolkits to
ensure sensitive advanced technologies critical to military
modernization cannot be used to undermine international peace and
security. Australia acknowledges the strategic rationale of the U.S.
Executive Order to advance a targeted set of controls on outbound
investments in sensitive technologies with a core national security
nexus. Australia regularly reviews its investment settings to ensure
they remain fit for purpose to deal with emerging risks. We intend to
maintain close consultations and communicate clearly to the private
sector regarding our joint resolve and shared objectives in this area,
including our long-standing commitment to investment and open and fair
trade.    
  
The United States and Australia have a deep and long-standing trade and
investment relationship, underpinned by the Australia-U.S. Free Trade
Agreement. We continue to work together to promote diversified supply
chains and fair and open, rules-based trade. We share a commitment to
the rules-based multilateral trading system, with the World Trade
Organization (WTO) at its core. We continue to work together to reform
the WTO so that it is better equipped to achieve its foundational
objectives and address modern day challenges, and remain committed to
conducting discussions with a view to having a fully- and
well-functioning dispute settlement system accessible to all members by
2024. We look forward to a successful Thirteenth WTO Ministerial
Conference and will continue to work constructively to ensure positive
outcomes, including on reform issues.     
  
We are committed to delivering strong outcomes on the Indo-Pacific
Economic Framework for Prosperity (IPEF). Together with other IPEF
partners, the United States and Australia are tackling new and emerging
economic challenges, including by strengthening trade connectivity and
regional supply chains, unlocking green trade and investment to support
the clean energy transition, accelerating anti-corruption, and enhancing
tax cooperation efforts in the region.  
  
Throughout the U.S. host year of APEC, we continue to advance a free,
fair, and open economic policy agenda that empowers our workers and
benefits all our people. We look forward to a successful APEC Economic
Leaders’ Week next month in San Francisco, which will make further
progress towards a more resilient, inclusive, and sustainable future for
us all.  
  
**Promoting Global and Regional Peace and Stability**  
  
We are committed to upholding a global order underpinned by
international rules and norms, with the United Nations (UN) at its
heart. The United States and Australia are steadfast in their commitment
to upholding international law, including the United Nations Charter and
call for all countries to uphold its purposes, principles, and
obligations arising under the Charter, including refraining from the
threat or use of force against the territorial integrity or political
independence of any State.  
  
We condemn in the strongest possible terms Russia’s illegal and
unprovoked war against Ukraine. Russia’s war violates international law,
including the UN Charter, and is driving global food and energy
insecurity.  We once again call on Russia to immediately, completely,
and unconditionally withdraw its forces from within the internationally
recognized borders of Ukraine. The United States and Australia are
committed to supporting Ukraine to empower it to resolve this conflict
on its own terms.  
  
In addition to support to Ukraine, Australia responded to a request from
the United States to deploy a Royal Australian Air Force E-7A Wedgetail
aircraft to Germany, which starts operations this week. The Australian
deployment will bolster the multilayered protection of the international
flow of assistance to Ukraine by providing early warning of a threat
against the gateway of assistance. The United States also welcomes
Australia’s recent announcement that it will provide an additional $13
million in military assistance to Ukraine, including counter-drone and
demining equipment.  
  
Furthermore, we reaffirm our commitment to the complete denuclearization
of the Korean Peninsula. We strongly condemn the Democratic People’s
Republic of Korea’s (DPRK) unprecedented number of ballistic missile
launches, including multiple intercontinental ballistic missile
launches, that pose a grave threat to peace and security on the Korean
Peninsula and beyond. We reiterate our commitment to the global nuclear
non-proliferation and disarmament regime and its cornerstone, the Treaty
on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. We reaffirm our commitment
to practical efforts to reduce nuclear risks and to the ultimate goal of
a world without nuclear weapons.  
  
We reaffirm our steadfast commitment to the Quad and its shared vision
of an open, stable, and prosperous Indo-Pacific. We will continue to
deliver on the Quad’s positive and practical agenda, guided by the
priorities of regional countries and responding to the regions’ needs.
We reiterate the Quad’s unwavering support and respect for regional
institutions, including ASEAN, PIF, and the Indian Ocean Rim
Association. The United States applauds the success of Australia hosting
the 2023 Quad Leaders’ Summit in Hiroshima and we look forward to the
next Quad Leaders’ Summit being held in India.  
  
We emphasize the importance of all States being able to exercise rights
and freedoms in a manner consistent with international law as reflected
in the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS),
including freedom of navigation and overflight. We strongly oppose
destabilizing actions in the South China Sea, such as unsafe encounters
at sea and in the air, the militarization of disputed features, the
dangerous use of coast guard vessels and maritime militia, including to
interfere with routine Philippines maritime operations around Second
Thomas Shoal, and efforts to disrupt other countries’ offshore resource
exploitation. We also recognize that the 2016 South China Sea Arbitral
Award is final and legally binding on the parties in that proceeding,
and we are concerned about China’s excessive maritime claims that are
inconsistent with international law, as well as unilateral actions that
may raise tensions and increase the risk of miscalculation in the
region. We resolve to work with partners to support regional maritime
security and uphold international law.   
  
We reaffirm the importance of maintaining peace and stability across the
Taiwan Strait and our shared opposition to unilateral changes to the
status quo. We call for the peaceful resolution of cross-Strait issues
through dialogue without the threat or use of force or coercion.  
  
We emphasize the importance for all countries of promoting open channels
of communication and practical measures to reduce the risk of
misunderstanding and miscalculation and to prevent conflict in the
Indo-Pacific.  
  
**Strengthening People-to-People Ties**  
  
We acknowledge the richly diverse cultures of Indigenous Peoples in the
United States and Australia, and both Governments reiterate our
commitment to working in partnership with Native Hawaiians, Native
American Tribes, and First Nations Peoples.    
  
The United States and Australia have a shared interest in ensuring that
our trade and investment agenda delivers inclusive economic growth and
benefits for everyone. Today we have also committed to work together,
and in genuine partnership with Indigenous businesses and stakeholders
from both the United States and Australia, to grow opportunities for our
Indigenous Peoples to enjoy the economic prosperity created by our
two-way trade and investment. We welcome the opportunities that will be
created by the U.S. announcement of new funding that will work with
Australian government programs to support ongoing dialogue,
knowledge-sharing, and increased business opportunities for our
Indigenous Peoples over the coming months and years.  
  
The United States is pleased to begin initial discussions with its
international partners, including Australia, to explore a U.S.
Transportation Security Administration “One Stop Security” pilot
program. “One Stop Security” would streamline security screening
requirements and shorten transit times for covered passenger
populations. We appreciate Australia’s interest in this pilot
opportunity and look forward to continuing conversations based on
security commensurability.  
  
We reaffirm our commitment to gender equality, including through
achieving Sustainable Development Goal 5, promoting women’s leadership,
and advancing women’s economic empowerment globally, as well as
countering efforts to push back against women’s and girls’ human rights.
We emphasize the importance of working with partners to combat all forms
of gender-based violence—online and offline—and fully implement the
Women, Peace and Security agenda, especially in the Indo-Pacific. We
commit to reinforce this coordination through our annual bilateral
strategic dialogue on gender equality and as founding members of the
Women in the Sustainable Economy Initiative. We also recommit to working
together to promote children’s online safety, including through
strengthening bilateral coordination to advance awareness, prevention,
and response to child sexual exploitation and abuse online.  
  
This visit serves to reaffirm the commitment of the United States and
Australia to build on our existing cooperation to enhance an Innovation
Alliance that will benefit our two countries and the entire
Indo-Pacific.

\###
