---
date: '2023-10-31'
modified_time: 2023-10-31 19:07:13-04:00
published_time: 2023-10-31 19:07:12-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/10/31/fact-sheet-president-biden-announces-over-5-billion-to-support-rural-communities-during-investing-in-rural-america-event-series/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: President\_Biden Announces Over $5 Billion to Support Rural Communities\
  \ During Investing in Rural America Event\_Series"
---
 
Today, President Biden will travel to Northfield, Minnesota to visit
Dutch Creek Farms to lead his Administration’s Investing in Rural
America Event Series and highlight investments from the Biden
Administration in Rural America. **During the visit, President Biden
will announce over $5 billion in new investments from his Investing in
America agenda** – including the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law and the
Inflation Reduction Act – to advance rural prosperity, economic
development, competition, and sustainability. President Biden will also
discuss how Bidenomics and his Investing in America agenda are ensuring
rural Americans do not have to leave their hometowns to find
opportunity.

Over the course of two weeks, President Biden, Cabinet members, and
Senior Administration Officials are barnstorming across the country as
part of the Investing in Rural America Event Series to highlight how the
Biden-Harris Administration’s investments are bringing new revenue to
farms, increased economic development in rural towns and communities,
and more opportunity throughout the country.

To lead the Biden-Harris Administration’s Investing in Rural America
Event Series, President Biden will announce over $5 billion in new
investments in rural America, including:

**$1.7 Billion in Investments in Climate-Smart Agriculture:** The U.S.
Department of Agriculture (USDA) is announcing nearly $1.7 billion in
funding to support the adoption of climate-smart agriculture practices,
which have direct climate mitigation benefits, advance a host of other
environmental co-benefits, and offer farmers, ranchers and foresters new
revenue streams. Dutch Creek Farms, where President Biden will visit
today, is a family farm that grows corn and soybeans and raises hogs.
Under the Biden-Harris Administration, Dutch Creek Farms has used
several climate-smart agriculture techniques to make their farm more
sustainable, including growing crops that naturally sequester carbon and
improve soil quality, farming in a way that limits soil disturbance, and
creating riparian buffers to protect nearby waterways from pollutants.

The funding President Biden will announce includes an unprecedented $1.1
billion investment across 81 projects through the [Regional Conservation
Partnership
Program](https://www.nrcs.usda.gov/programs-initiatives/rcpp-regional-conservation-partnership-program)
(RCPP), which takes a voluntary approach to expand the reach of
conservation efforts and climate-smart agriculture through
public-private partnerships. The announcement also includes fiscal year
2023 investments from the Inflation Reduction Act that are helping
farmers adopt [climate-smart agriculture
practices](https://www.farmers.gov/loans/inflation-reduction-investments).
Through the Inflation Reduction Act, USDA has enrolled more farmers and
more acres in voluntary conservation programs than at any point in
history, following a backlog that has existed for years. In 2023, USDA
enrolled nearly 5,300 additional producers in conservation programs
across all 50 states (above what otherwise would have been possible
through Farm Bill and appropriations funding), which will provide
significant climate mitigation benefits. Today’s announcement includes:

-   $100 million through the Agricultural Conservation Easement Program
    (ACEP);
-   $250 million through the Conservation Stewardship Program (CSP); and
-   $250 million through the Environmental Quality Incentives Program
    (EQIP).

**$1.1 Billion in Investments in Rural American Infrastructure:** USDAis
announcing $1.1 billion across 104 loan and grant awards to upgrade
infrastructure in rural communities that will bring new jobs, clean
water and fuel, and reliable electricity to people in nearly every
state. This funding includes $5 million from the Inflation Reduction Act
to further increase the availability of renewable, homegrown biofuels.
The announcement is part of President Biden’s Investing in America
efforts to rebuild the physical infrastructure of our country to grow
the economy for decades to come, create good-paying jobs, and better
position rural America to compete in a global economy.

**$2 Billion in Investments to Partner with Rural Communities to Create
Jobs and Support Rural-led Economic Development:** USDA is announcing $2
billion across 99 economic development projects in [Rural Partners
Network](https://www.rural.gov/community-networks) (RPN) communities in
nine states and Puerto Rico – funding that will create jobs and build
infrastructure as well as increase access to quality health care,
affordable housing, and clean water and energy. RPN is transforming the
way the federal government partners with rural communities by putting
federal employees on the ground to help rural communities access federal
resources. Last year, the Biden-Harris Administration launched
[Rural.gov](https://www.rural.gov/) to help connect all rural
communities to federal resources. Today, the Administration is
announcing it is piloting a new resource clearinghouse function on
Rural.gov with funding opportunities for rural communities to facilitate
access to federal programs.

**$274 Million to Expand Critical Rural High-Speed Internet
Infrastructure:** USDAis announcing nearly $274 million across 16 grant
and loan awards to expand access to high-speed internet for people
living and working across eight states. These investments include $260
million as part of the fourth round of the [ReConnect
Program](https://www.usda.gov/reconnect) funded by the Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law, which provided a total of $65 billion to ensure
every American has access to affordable, reliable high-speed internet.
In total, the Biden-Harris Administration is investing $90 billion to
deliver affordable high-speed internet to everyone in America, including
in rural communities that often lack access to high-speed internet.

**$145 Million to Expand Access to Renewable Energy and Lower Energy
Costs for Rural Americans:** USDAis announcing $145 million in funding
for 700 loan and grant awards through the [Rural Energy for America
Program](https://www.rd.usda.gov/inflation-reduction-act/rural-energy-america-program-reap)
(REAP) to help agricultural producers and rural small business owners
make energy efficiency improvements and renewable energy investments to
lower energy costs, generate new income, and strengthen the resiliency
of their operations. This funding is made possible in part by President
Biden’s Inflation Reduction Act – the nation’s largest-ever investment
in combatting the climate crisis.

These announcements build on billions of dollars in investments the
Biden-Harris Administration has already made to support rural America,
including through expanding access to markets and increasing competition
for farmers and producers. Under the Biden-Harris Administration, USDA
has committed $1 billion to expand independent meat and poultry
processing capacity to give farmers more market options and fairer
prices, and reduce reliance on a small handful of large meat and poultry
corporations. USDA has also made available $900 million to spur the
production of independent, American-made fertilizer, create jobs in
rural America, and give farmers more options. These investments were
funded in part by the President’s American Rescue Plan and USDA’s
Commodity Credit Corporation.

To learn more about the Biden-Harris Administration’s historic
investments in rural America, visit
[here](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/10/29/fact-sheet-president-biden-to-visit-minnesota-to-highlight-investments-in-rural-america-lead-administration-wide-rural-event-series/).

\###
