---
date: '2023-10-14'
published_time: 2023-10-14 20:43:15-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/10/14/remarks-as-prepared-for-delivery-by-first-lady-jill-biden-at-the-national-italian-american-foundation-gala/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Remarks as Prepared for Delivery by First Lady Jill\_Biden at the National\
  \ Italian American Foundation\_Gala"
---
 
Washington, D.C.

\*\*\*

Thank you, John. You, Robert, and the entire NIAF leadership team do so
much to keep our heritage alive.

Thank you for supporting extraordinary Italian Americans, like these
five incredible honorees, and inspiring the next generation of leaders.

And the crowd that’s here is a testament to the power of that work, and
shows us how high this community can rise, from Congress and the Supreme
Court to businesses and non-profits.

And how wonderful is it to have the Italian Airforce Band with us
tonight?

I’m so proud to be Italian American, and to celebrate that heritage
together.

Recently, I had the opportunity to visit Ellis Island, to walk on the
little piece of land where my great-grandparents first stepped onto the
United States, where they took the first strides into their new lives,
far from everything, and everyone, they had ever known.

As I walked into the same great hall they did, with a soaring arched
ceiling and half-moon windows that let the sunlight stream in, shining
off the red brick floor—it was hard to not imagine how they must have
felt, chasing the hope of this country’s unlimited promise.

I had known that my family had passed through the island, but I was
surprised to find their records there—the story they left behind in
black and white, a story that has gone on to become a part of our
family’s mythology.

And in the loops and swirls of their handwriting, I watched as their
ages shifted and reformed, dates adjusting to fit the story they wanted
to tell, as they signed their names to begin a new life—names that
eventually transformed from Gaetano and Conchetta Giacoppa to Gaetano
and Conchetta Jacobs.

And even though their names changed, the values they brought across the
Atlantic stayed the same: Loyalty. Generosity. Kindness. Faith.

I brought those values with me to the White House. And it is my absolute
honor to serve as the first Italian American First Lady.

Our ancestors’ values live on in each of us—they breathe—they beat
inside of us.

In every artist and dreamer who pushes us beyond the limits of our
imaginations, in every advocate and lawyer fighting injustice, in every
business owner who welcomes customers in with the warmth of home, in the
children and grandchildren and great grandchildren who put their
shoulders back and find their courage, even when they’re most afraid.

And we kept those values alive even as Sicilians were dragged from their
cells and killed in New Orleans by an angry mob, even as signs went up
that said “Italians need not apply,” even in families like mine, where
my dad was never quite accepted by my mom’s family because he was
Italian.

My husband, President Biden, is working to build on what this community
has accomplished—and help us, and all communities, keep reaching for
that bright future our ancestors were searching for. That’s why he’s
growing our economy from the middle out and the bottom up—so families
can carve out a good life.

Because everyone deserves that chance.

It’s why we work so hard to pass on our ancestors’ values to our
children, isn’t it? So they too can draw on them during those hard days,
so they can work hard, and make their own way.

Generation after generation we’ve woven our art and music and stories
and culture so deeply into the fabric of this country, that the dividing
lines blur—a piece of our homeland in our home.

Think of how our ancestors would feel if they saw this room today.

This is what they hoped to give us when they signed their names at Ellis
Island—a future where we can work hard and reach for every possibility.

So, let us continue to share this country we call home—living out their
hope and passing on their dreams and values to our children.

Thank you.

\###  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
