---
date: '2023-10-09'
published_time: 2023-10-09 16:17:05-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/10/09/statement-from-president-joe-biden-on-american-citizens-impacted-in-israel/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Statement from President Joe\_Biden on American Citizens Impacted in\_Israel"
---
 
As we continue to account for the horrors of the appalling terrorist
assault against Israel this weekend and the hundreds of innocent
civilians who were murdered, we are seeing the immense scale and reach
of this tragedy. Sadly, we now know that at least 11 American citizens
were among those killed—many of whom made a second home in Israel.

It’s heart wrenching. These families have been torn apart by inexcusable
hatred and violence. We also know that American citizens still remain
unaccounted for, and we are working with Israeli officials to obtain
more information as to their whereabouts. My heart goes out to every
family impacted by the horrible events of the past few days. The pain
these families have endured, the enormity of their loss, and the agony
of those still awaiting information is unfathomable.

The safety of American citizens—whether at home or abroad—is my top
priority as President. While we are still working to confirm, we believe
it is likely that American citizens may be among those being held by
Hamas. I have directed my team to work with their Israeli counterparts
on every aspect of the hostage crisis, including sharing intelligence
and deploying experts from across the United States government to
consult with and advise Israeli counterparts on hostage recovery
efforts.

For American citizens who are currently in Israel, the State Department
is providing consular assistance as well as updated security alerts. For
those who desire to leave, commercial flights and ground options are
still available. Please also take sensible precautions in the days ahead
and follow the guidance of local authorities.

This is not some distant tragedy. The ties between Israel and the United
States run deep. It is personal for so many American families who are
feeling the pain of this attack as well as the scars inflicted through
millennia of antisemitism and persecution of Jewish people. In cities
across the country, police departments have stepped up security around
centers of Jewish life, and the Department of Homeland Security, the
Federal Bureau of Investigation, and other federal law enforcement
partners are closely monitoring for any domestic threats in connection
with the horrific terrorist attacks in Israel.

In this moment of heartbreak, the American people stand
shoulder-to-shoulder with Israelis. We remember the pain of being
attacked by terrorists at home, and Americans across the country stand
united against these evil acts that have once more claimed innocent
American lives. It is an outrage. And we will continue to show the world
that the American people are unwavering in our resolve to oppose
terrorism in all forms. 

The United States and the State of Israel are inseparable partners, and
I affirmed to Prime Minister Netanyahu again when we spoke yesterday
that the United States will continue to make sure Israel has what it
needs to defend itself and its people.

\###
