---
date: '2023-10-19'
modified_time: 2023-10-19 11:17:08-04:00
published_time: 2023-10-19 11:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/10/19/biden-harris-administration-releases-report-of-the-h-2b-worker-protection-taskforce/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Releases Report of the H-2B Worker Protection\_\
  Taskforce"
---
 
Today, the Biden-Harris Administration released the
[](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/10/Final-H-2B-Worker-Protection-Taskforce-Report.pdf)
[report](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/10/H-2B-Worker-Protection-Taskforce-Report.pdf)
of the H-2B Worker Protection Taskforce (the Taskforce). The report
announces new actions to be taken by four federal agencies—the
Departments of Homeland Security (DHS), Labor (DOL), and State, as well
as the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID)— to strengthen
protections for vulnerable workers.

The H-2B program permits employers to temporarily hire noncitizens to
perform nonagricultural labor or services in the United States. Workers
in the H-2B program work alongside U.S. workers in some of our country’s
most critical occupations. Too often, H-2B workers face significant
challenges and structural disincentives to report or leave abusive
conditions, and they often lack power and resources to exercise their
rights when exploitative employment situations arise. This vulnerability
not only harms H-2B workers, but also undermines wages and working
conditions for all workers.

To address these issues, in October 2022, the Administration
[announced](https://www.dhs.gov/news/2022/10/12/dhs-supplement-h-2b-cap-nearly-65000-additional-visas-fiscal-year-2023)
the creation of the White House-led H-2B Worker Protection Taskforce to
develop solutions to help address three challenges: (1) threats to H-2B
program integrity; (2) H-2B workers’ fundamental vulnerabilities,
including their limited ability to leave abusive employment without
jeopardizing their immigration status; and (3) the illegal use of the
program to avoid hiring U.S. workers. As part of developing its actions,
the Taskforce held listening sessions and gathered recommendations from
key stakeholders, including worker advocates, immigration groups,
unions, experts, and researchers.

“The Department of Homeland Security is committed to maintaining strong
economic growth and meeting the labor demand in the United States, while
strengthening worker protections for U.S. and foreign workers,” said
**Secretary of Homeland Security Alejandro N. Mayorkas**. “We are acting
swiftly to bolster the resiliency of our industries and will continue to
take steps to strengthen protections for workers and safeguard the
integrity of the H-2B program from unscrupulous employers who would seek
to exploit workers by paying substandard wages and maintaining unsafe
work conditions.”

“The Biden-Harris Administration is committed to protecting all workers,
including migrant workers who are particularly vulnerable to
exploitation,” said **Acting Secretary of Labor Julie Su**. “We know
that when one group of workers is allowed to remain vulnerable to abuse,
their lack of power undermines all workers’ rights. The actions outlined
in the H-2B Worker Protection Taskforce report will help to ensure that
workers in the H-2B program are treated with dignity and respect, and
that they have the resources and support they need to exercise their
rights.”

“The Department of State is invested in taking meaningful steps to
protect workers throughout the recruitment and employment process and
looks forward to meeting our commitments to the H-2B Worker Protection
Taskforce,” **said Secretary of State Antony Blinken**. “We know that as
people increasingly leave their homes and embark on perilous journeys to
search for safety and opportunities, we must seek ways to make migration
safer and more orderly. As we expand legal pathways for migration, we
cannot ignore the ways in which such pathways, including the United
States’, can exacerbate workers’ vulnerabilities to exploitation.”

“The strengthened protections announced today send a clear signal of the
Biden-Harris Administration’s commitment to protect all workers in the
United States. USAID will continue to work in partnership with the
governments of northern Central America to connect workers transparently
and ethically with opportunities here in the United States—empowering
workers to improve their livelihoods without having to rely on
unscrupulous recruiters,” **said U.S. Agency for International
Development Administrator Samantha Power.**

The Taskforce report announces more than a dozen action items to be
taken by DHS, DOL, State, and USAID to advance protections for H-2B
workers. In select cases, these deliverables will also apply to H-2A
temporary agricultural workers, who often suffer the same
vulnerabilities. These include:

-   **Protecting H-2B and H-2A workers engaged in labor disputes with
    their employers,** including by clarifying that a worker who has
    remained in the U.S. longer than initially permitted due to a
    workplace labor dispute will be protected from certain adverse
    immigration consequences; expediting prosecutorial discretion for
    such workers where appropriate; and ensuring enforcement agencies
    are informed about an existing interagency process that enables them
    to request that a worker outside of the United States, who has been
    identified by an enforcement agency as willing and needed to support
    an investigation or other enforcement interest, be paroled back into
    the United States.  
-   **Leveraging existing data to increase transparency and reduce the
    vulnerability of H-2B and H-2A workers,** including by improving
    interagency data sharing; improving publicly available data to
    inform outreach and advocacy efforts, including through new
    anonymized quarterly data reports and on DHS’s [H-2B Data
    Hub](https://www.uscis.gov/tools/reports-and-studies/h-2b-employer-data-hub);
    and by publishing anonymized, aggregated data by gender, sector, and
    occupation to provide an additional transparency to the H-2 programs
    and aid efforts to prevent gender discrimination.  
-   **Reducing workers’ vulnerability to exploitation from labor
    recruiters and employers,** including increasing data sharing
    between agencies on allegations of impermissible recruitment
    practices to strengthen enforcement; and creating a debriefing
    survey for workers returning home in select countries to help
    identify recruitment or worksite misconduct they may have
    experienced.  
-   **Empowering workers by improving their access to information,**
    including by improving workers’ understanding of their labor rights
    and access to information on DHS’s deferred action process for
    workers engaged in labor disputes; strengthening pre-departure
    training for workers on their rights; enhancing workers’ access to
    information on their current immigration status and the status of
    pending petitions filed by their prospective employers; exploring
    ways to provide workers real-time information about available job
    opportunities with employers who have already received a labor
    certification through a new or updated website; and facilitating the
    return of wages owed to workers as a result of a labor enforcement
    action to workers recruited through labor ministries in select
    countries.  
-   **Establishing a standing Interagency H-2 Worker Protection Working
    Group,** led by the White House, which will serve as stakeholders’
    point of contact in the Administration on the H-2 programs, deliver
    briefings, and guide implementation of the actions in the Taskforce
    report.

The actions in the Taskforce report will build upon and complement other
recent Biden-Harris Administration actions to improve outcomes,
strengthen program integrity, and better protect workers in both the
H-2B and H-2A programs. These actions include two Notices of Proposed
Rulemaking (NPRMs) from
[DHS](https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2023/09/20/2023-20123/modernizing-h-2-program-requirements-oversight-and-worker-protections)
and
[DOL](https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2023/09/15/2023-19852/improving-protections-for-workers-in-temporary-agricultural-employment-in-the-united-states)
that would significantly strengthen worker protections in the H-2
programs, as well as DHS’s [Process Enhancements for Supporting Labor
Enforcement
Investigations](https://www.dhs.gov/news/2023/01/13/dhs-announces-process-enhancements-supporting-labor-enforcement-investigations)
that helps ensure noncitizen workers who are victims of, or witnesses
to, violations of labor rights can access a streamlined and expedited
deferred action request process in support of labor agency enforcement
interests. 

Read the full Taskforce report
[here](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/10/H-2B-Worker-Protection-Taskforce-Report.pdf).

\###
