---
date: '2023-10-31'
published_time: 2023-10-31 10:12:33-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/10/31/what-they-are-saying-president-biden-issues-executive-order-on-safe-secure-and-trustworthy-artificial-intelligence/
tags: statements-releases
title: "WHAT THEY ARE SAYING: President\_Biden Issues Executive Order on Safe, Secure,\
  \ and Trustworthy Artificial\_Intelligence"
---
 
Yesterday, President Biden issued a landmark Executive Order to ensure
that America leads the way in seizing the promise and managing the risks
of artificial intelligence (AI). The Executive Order establishes new
standards for AI safety and security, protects Americans’ privacy,
advances equity and civil rights, stands up for consumers and workers,
promotes innovation and competition, advances American leadership around
the world, and more.  
  
For more on the Biden-Harris Administration’s work to advance AI, and
for opportunities to join the Federal AI workforce,
visit [AI.gov](https://ai.gov/).  
  
*Members of Congress, leading technology companies, and civil society
leaders applauded the Biden-Haris Administrations Executive order on
safe, secure, and trustworthy artificial intelligence. See what they are
saying below:*  
  
  
**Members of Congress**  
  
**Colorado Senator John Hickenlooper**: “This historic executive order
is a massive step forward in our work to harness the incredible
potential of AI, while also implementing safety standards to better
protect American consumers and workers.”
\[[Tweet](https://x.com/SenatorHick/status/1719060072829948351?s=20),
10/30/23\]  
  
**Connecticut Senator Richard Blumenthal**: “. @POTUS ’ comprehensive
Executive Order on AI—mirroring our bipartisan framework—is a critical
step in protecting consumers, national security, & an innovative
economy. The White House has an important role in leading by example,
but Congress must also act to enshrine these initiatives & standards
into law. I look forward to building on this Executive Order by
introducing legislation based on our framework.”
\[[Tweet](https://x.com/SenBlumenthal/status/1719065525798461903?s=20),
10/30/23\]  
  
**California Congressman Ted Lieu**: “I commend @POTUS for issuing this
important Executive Order to manage the risks and benefits of AI. In our
July letter to OMB, @RepZoeLofgren @RepHaleyStevens and I requested that
the Administration use the NIST AI Risk Management Framework across
agencies and vendors. Very pleased that in today’s EO, the
Administration is (1) adapting and incorporating the NIST AI RMF into
relevant safety and security guidelines for use by critical
infrastructure owners and operators, (2) requiring minimum
risk-management practices for government uses of AI that impact people’s
rights or safety, including those derived from the NIST AI RMF, and (3)
leading a coordinated effort with key international partners to
implement AI-related consensus standards and ensure that such efforts
are guided by the NIST AI RMF and U.S. Government National Standards
Strategy for Critical and Emerging Technology.”
\[[Tweet](https://x.com/tedlieu/status/1719070460468744472?s=20),
10/30/23\]  
  
**New York Congressman Adriano Espaillat**: “Artificial Intelligence
(AI) is here to stay and we’ve witnessed its impact on our workforce,
labor market, and the American people. I commend @POTUS for today’s
actions on the use of this technology to ensure safety, accountability,
security, and trust.”
\[[Tweet](https://x.com/RepEspaillat/status/1718987230918619388?s=20),
10/30/23\]  
  
**Virginia Congressman Don Beyer**: “President Biden’s Executive Order
announced today is an ambitious and comprehensive strategy for
responsible innovation that builds on the Administration’s previous
efforts to ensure the safe, secure, and trustworthy development of AI.”
\[[Tweet](https://x.com/RepDonBeyer/status/1719081682752467161?s=20),
10/30/23\]  
  
**Washington Congressman Suzan DelBene:** “The United States must be in
the driver’s seat as artificial intelligence expands around the world
and President Biden clearly understands that. I welcome the president’s
executive order to ensure AI is implemented in a safe and secure way,
especially his focus on consumer privacy protections. But executive
action can only take us so far. Congress’ delay in passing a strong
national data privacy standard risks the U.S. falling further behind
other countries and dilutes America’s longstanding global technology
leadership. Privacy goes beyond just artificial intelligence and would
set clear rules of the road to protect Americans and their data in our
increasingly digital world. This effort has had bipartisan momentum, and
I will continue to work with my colleagues on both sides of the aisle to
get this over the finish line.”
\[[Statement](https://delbene.house.gov/news/documentsingle.aspx?DocumentID=3691),
10/30/23\]  
  
**Industry Leaders**  
  
**Brad Smith, President, Microsoft: **“Today’s executive order is
another critical step forward in the governance of AI technology. This
order builds on the White House Voluntary Commitments for safe, secure,
and trustworthy AI and complements international efforts through the G7
Hiroshima Process. AI promises to lower costs and improve services for
the Federal government, and we look forward to working with U.S.
officials to fully realize the power and promise of this emerging
technology.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/BradSmi/status/1719006411089449166),
10/30/23\]

**Kent Walker, President, Google: “**The G7 Code of Conduct marks an
important step toward responsibly developing and deploying AI in ways
that benefit everyone. We support the Code and look forward to working
with governments, industry, and civil society to get this critical
moment right.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/Kent_Walker/status/1719010885392552054),
10/30/23\]

**Riley McCormack, President & Chief Executive Officer, Digimarc**:
“Digimarc Corporation fully supports the bold actions taken today by the
Biden Administration as it works to balance protecting the rights of
Americans while seizing the tremendous innovative potential of
Artificial Intelligence (AI). We are encouraged to see the
administration’s guidance include clear direction regarding the role
watermarking must play in this critical effort. Harnessing proven
technologies will go a long way to ensure that the power of AI is
safeguarded.”
\[[Statement](https://www.digimarc.com/blog/statement-digimarc-ceo-riley-mccormack-executive-order-artificial-intelligence),
10/30/23\]

**Dana Rao, General Counsel & Chief Trust Officer, Adobe:** “It’s great
to see the White House investing in AI’s growth by creating a framework
for responsible AI practices.”
\[[Statement](https://www.technologyreview.com/2023/10/30/1082678/three-things-to-know-about-the-white-houses-executive-order-on-ai/),
10/30/23\]

**Aaron Levie, CEO, Box:** “Biden’s AI Executive Order is the gold
standard for how governments should be regulating AI right now.
Thoughtful but scoped oversight focused on practical risks, emphasis on
privacy and security, focus on R&D across the ecosystem, and encouraging
use of AI in the government.”
\[[Statement](https://twitter.com/levie/status/1718989188610339054),
10/30/23\]

**Navrina Singh, Founder, Credo AI: **“It’s the right move for right now
because we can’t expect policies to be perfect at the onset while
legislation is still discussed. I do believe that this really shows AI
is a top priority for government.”
\[[Statement](https://www.theverge.com/2023/10/30/23914507/biden-ai-executive-order-regulation-standards),
10/30/23\]

**Tom Quaadman, Executive Vice President, U.S. Chamber’s Technology
Engagement Center: **“The Chamber appreciates the priorities outlined in
the Executive Order, such as attracting highly skilled workers,
bolstering resources needed for intra-government coordination, and
speeding up the development of standards.”
\[[Statement](https://www.uschamber.com/technology/ai-executive-order-addresses-important-priorities-but-needs-more-work),
10/30/23\]

**Joint Statement by Leading AI Security Innovative Companies –
OpenPolicy, Armis, Kiteworks, Cranium.AI, Axonius, HiddenLayer,
Protect.AI, Astrix Security, Cybeats:** “The Executive Order is a
welcomed and necessary step forward in ensuring both the trusted
deployment of AI and seizing U.S. competitiveness and leadership in AI
development. Supporting the trusted deployment and development of AI
entails supporting the development of cutting-edge innovative solutions
needed to protect government, industry, and society from emerging AI
threats. The undersigned are innovative companies of all sizes that
stand forefront of developing leading security, safety, and trustworthy
AI and privacy solutions. We believe that the Biden-Harris
Administration’s Executive Order provides a sound framework for
addressing the emerging security and safety AI threats and ensuring that
AI is developed and used in a safe, secure, and trustworthy manner.”
\[Statement, 10/30/23\]

**Joshua Bolten, CEO, Business Roundtable:** “AI’s continued advancement
and adoption is poised to benefit society and the economy. Business
Roundtable members, whose companies are leading developers and users of
AI, are committed to building trust in AI by responsibly developing and
deploying these technologies. We appreciate the Biden Administration’s
focus on this important issue and encourage policymakers to work closely
with the business community to maximize the societal, economic and
security benefits of AI, while addressing risks.”
\[[Statement](https://www.businessroundtable.org/business-roundtable-statement-on-biden-administrations-artificial-intelligence-executive-order),
10/30/23\]  
  
**Union and Labor Leaders**  
  
**Liz Shuler, President, AFL-CIO: **“Today, the Biden–Harris
administration reaffirmed its commitment to America’s workers through a
pioneering executive order on artificial intelligence (AI). The AFL-CIO
applauds the centrality of workers’ rights and values within this
order—including the right to collectively bargain—while acknowledging
there is much ground to cover in enshrining accountability, transparency
and safety as bedrocks of AI. Poll after poll confirms America’s workers
fear the impacts AI will have on our jobs and livelihoods if intentional
guardrails are not applied, instead allowing corporate-driven profits
dictate the evolution of this technology. Workers, especially workers of
color and women, time and again witness technology developed without our
input or consideration; inevitably undermining our agency and economic
security. AI must be developed and assessed within clearly articulated
frameworks that put human values—not corporate profits—at its center. To
accomplish this foundational goal, we need federal policies that
substantively and continuously engage workers’ on-the-ground experience
and expertise.”
\[[Statement](https://aflcio.org/press/releases/afl-cio-president-liz-shuler-executive-order-lays-foundation-substantive-worker),
10/30/23\]  
  
**The Screen Actors Guild-American Federation of Television and Radio
Artists  (SAG-AFTRA)**: “Thank you @POTUS for signing a groundbreaking
Executive Order today on AI. For strong, safe & responsible AI
development & use, it is imperative that workers & unions remain at the
forefront of policy development. We look forward to working together for
a human centered approach.”
\[[Tweet](https://x.com/sagaftra/status/1719080139177525456?s=20),
10/30/23\]  
  
**Claude Cummings Jr., President, CWA:** “President Biden’s executive
order on AI recognizes the risks to workers, and directs the development
of principles and best practices to mitigate the harm and maximize the
benefits of AI for workers. Working people have already begun this
process, and their voices must be heard. American workers, from call
centers to newsrooms to technology companies, are already our most
valuable experts on AI’s labor-market impacts. I am deeply encouraged to
see President Biden’s recognition that collective bargaining is an
essential safeguard in managing the changes and challenges that AI will
bring to America’s jobs and workplaces. Collective bargaining and a
union contract give workers a voice in how AI is implemented within
their jobs. When we address challenges together, guided by the voices of
America’s workers, we can promote American innovation that builds on
workers’ expertise and protects rights and dignity in the workplace.”
\[[Statement](https://cwa-union.org/news/releases/cwa-statement-response-president-bidens-executive-order-ai#:~:text=CWA%20President%20Claude%20Cummings%20Jr.%20issued%20the%20following,the%20destabilizing%20effects%20of%20AI%20in%20the%20workplace.),
10/30/23\]  
  
**Randi Weingarten, President, American Federation of Teachers:** “This
is a game-changer—and it comes at exactly the right time. President Joe
Biden has stepped up and shown real leadership in the face of both the
limitless opportunities and the existential threat posed by AI. With any
new technology, regulation and growth are two sides of the same coin.
The immense potential of AI can only be realized responsibly, and this
executive order takes concrete steps to embed that ethos from the
federal government on down. Appropriate regulation and transparency will
mean that people, not machines, are in charge in America. This executive
order erects meaningful guardrails that will uphold individual rights
and set standards on data privacy, cybersecurity, discrimination, and
fairness.”
\[[Statement](https://www.aft.org/press-release/afts-weingarten-president-bidens-pathbreaking-executive-order-ai),
10/30/23\]  
  
**Community and Advocacy Organizations**  
  
**Maya Wiley, President and CEO of the Leadership Conference on Civil
and Human Rights: **“The White House Executive Order on Artificial
Intelligence is an important next step to get federal agencies better
prepared to use its decision-making power in a way that increases
protections, rather than letting AI run unchecked. We are gratified that
the administration took seriously the concerns of the civil rights
community.”
\[[Statement](https://civilrights.org/2023/10/30/white-house-ai-executive-order-is-promising-first-step-comprehensive-legislation-is-still-needed/),
10/30/23\]  
  
**Damon Hewitt, President and Executive Director of the Lawyers’
Committee on Civil Rights Under Law: **“This executive order is a
critical step to help guard against algorithmic bias and
discrimination.  It can be the beginning of a pathway to a future where
AI empowers instead of oppresses.”
\[[Statement](https://www.lawyerscommittee.org/lawyers-committee-for-civil-rights-under-law-commends-biden-executive-order-on-artificial-intelligence-as-meaningful-step-forward/),
10/30/23\]  
  
**Center for Democracy and Technology:** “📢 📢 Today, the @WhiteHouse
will release its long-awaited Executive Order on \#AI, marking a new
milestone in the Biden Admin’s efforts to advance safe and trustworthy
\#ArtificialIntelligence. In advance, the White House fact sheet here
👇👇 :”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/CenDemTech/status/1718957631161663858),
10/30/23\]  
  
**Alondra Nelson, Distinguished Senior Fellow, Center for America
Progress: **“This ambitious executive order offers the guidance we need
to ensure that AI will be developed and used in a safe and effective
manner. The Biden administration should be commended for acting quickly,
decisively, and within the full range of its authority to issue an order
that addresses the potential harms that AI poses, especially to
vulnerable and marginalized communities.”
\[[Statement](https://www.americanprogress.org/press/statement-caps-alondra-nelson-praises-executive-order-on-artificial-intelligence/),
10/30/23\]

**Dan Correa, CEO, Federation of American Scientists:** “We applaud the
Biden Administration for taking action to direct the development and use
of this critical technology to the best outcomes,” says Dan Correa, CEO
of FAS. “Our organization was founded in 1945 when scientists understood
the tremendous ramifications of atomic energy; while we don’t think AI
represents that kind of existential threat, we do see AI as a rapidly
evolving technology with massive societal implications that demands the
public’s attention now, especially when applied to government
services.”\[[Statement](https://fas.org/publication/biden-artificial-intelligence-executive-order/),
10/30/23\]  
  
**Graham Brookie, Vice President and Senior Director, Atlantic Council’s
Digital Forensic Research Lab:** “The Biden administration’s executive
order on AI is a simple, pragmatic step forward in coherent and
connective tech policy.”
\[[Statement](https://www.atlanticcouncil.org/blogs/new-atlanticist/experts-react/experts-react-what-does-bidens-new-executive-order-mean-for-the-future-of-ai/),
10/30/23\]

**Lloyd Whitman, Senior Director, Atlantic Council’s GeoTech
Center: **“The Biden-Harris administration has taken strong action with
the comprehensive executive order on safe, secure, and trustworthy AI.”
\[[Statement](https://www.atlanticcouncil.org/blogs/new-atlanticist/experts-react/experts-react-what-does-bidens-new-executive-order-mean-for-the-future-of-ai/),
10/30/23\]

*\###*
