---
date: '2023-10-06'
published_time: 2023-10-06 13:29:52-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/10/06/statement-from-president-joe-biden-on-iranian-activist-narges-mohammadi-winning-the-nobel-peace-prize/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Statement from President Joe\_Biden on Iranian Activist Narges Mohammadi Winning\
  \ the Nobel Peace\_Prize"
---
 
I join with people around the world in congratulating Narges Mohammadi
on being awarded the 2023 Nobel Peace Prize and in celebrating her
unshakable courage. Ms. Mohammadi’s commitment to building the future
that women and all people in Iran deserve is an inspiration to people
everywhere who are fighting for human rights and basic human dignity.
She has endured repeated arrests, persecution, and torture at the hands
of the Iranian regime, yet Ms. Mohammadi’s advocacy and determination
has only grown stronger. This award is a recognition that, even as she
is currently and unjustly held in Evin prison, the world still hears the
clarion voice of Narges Mohammadi calling for freedom and equality. I
urge the government in Iran to immediately release her and her fellow
gender equality advocates from captivity.

Sadly, Ms. Mohammadi’s award comes the same week that horrifying reports
have emerged about Iran’s so-called morality police assaulting
16-year-old Armita Geravand for not wearing a headscarf.  The people of
Iran refuse to be silenced or intimidated as they fight for a free and
democratic future for their nation, and their peaceful movement— “Woman,
Life, Freedom”—demanding respect for their human rights has brought hope
to people the world. We will continue to honor the bravery of all human
rights defenders as well as the memory of Mahsa Amini and all those who
have been killed, wounded, or imprisoned by the regime. The United
States will continue working to support Iranians’ ability to advocate
for their own future, for freedom of expression, for gender equality,
and to end gender-based violence against women and girls everywhere.

As part of these efforts, the United States is continuing to lead a
diplomatic initiative at the United Nations to highlight, condemn, and
promote accountability for Iran’s abuses.  We’ve also deployed
anti-censorship tools to make it easier for tens of millions of Iranians
to access the internet and sanctioned more than 100 Iranian individuals
and entities responsible for supporting the regime’s oppression of its
people.

The United States will continue to stand with Ms. Mohammadi, with the
brave people of Iran, and with all those around the world who are
working with resilience and resolve to make our world more equal and
more free.

\###
