---
date: '2023-10-06'
modified_time: 2023-10-05 23:25:58-04:00
published_time: 2023-10-06 05:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/10/06/fact-sheet-to-launch-investing-in-america-tour-the-biden-%e2%81%a0harris-administration-kicks-off-sprint-to-catalyze-workforce-development-efforts-for-advanced-manufacturing-jobs-and-careers/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: To Launch Investing in America Tour, the Biden-\u2060Harris Administration\
  \ Kicks off Sprint to Catalyze Workforce Development Efforts for Advanced Manufacturing\
  \ Jobs and\_Careers"
---
 
Today, to launch the [third Investing in America
tour](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/10/05/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-to-kick-off-third-investing-in-america-tour-tout-historic-investments-benefitting-communities-across-the-country/),
the Biden-Harris Administration is hosting a White House convening to
officially kick off its Advanced Manufacturing Workforce Sprint—an
intensive drive to build a diverse, skilled pipeline of workers for good
jobs, including union jobs, in advanced manufacturing. The President’s
historic Investing in America agenda—including the Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law, CHIPS and Science Act, Inflation Reduction Act, and
American Rescue Plan—is creating strong demand for the skilled advanced
manufacturing workers in clean energy, biotechnology, semiconductors,
and more.  
  
The nationwide sprint is bringing together employers, unions, education
and training providers, community-based groups, philanthropic
organizations, and state and local governments to take concrete steps to
help more Americans train for and succeed in this growing field. Over
the next two weeks, as part of the third installment of the Investing in
America tour, President Biden and senior Administration officials will
travel to communities across the country to highlight the impact of the
President’s Bidenomics agenda—including how his Administration is
creating manufacturing jobs in industries of the future. To celebrate
the official kickoff of the Investing in America tour and the Sprint,
President Biden will deliver remarks marking Jobs Day and National
Manufacturing Day, citing the 800,000 manufacturing jobs created under
his Administration. First Lady Jill Biden is also visiting Dutchess
Community College in Fishkill, New York today to attend the launch of a
new mechatronics training lab funded in part by the President’s American
Rescue Plan.  
  
The Advanced Manufacturing Sprint will continue beyond the Investing in
America tour and through the end of 2023. The White House invites all
interested organizations to join the Sprint by submitting a
commitment [at this
link](https://46eop.my.site.com/Surveys/survey/runtimeApp.app?invitationId=0Ki3d0000006wKH&surveyName=advanced_manufacturing_workforce_sprint&UUID=02efcd8f-9a18-41d1-9649-d01515d38d4f).  
  
The Sprint builds on significant actions and investments that the
Administration has already made to train students and workers for
advanced manufacturing jobs and careers—many of which do not require a
four-year college degree. In September alone, federal agencies awarded
more than $200 million in projects that support the goals of the
Sprint—including training the next generation of talent in the
semiconductor industry, expanding high-quality workforce pathways into
clean energy, and supporting experiential learning in biomanufacturing
and other emerging occupations.  
  
The convening coincides with the following new actions to expand
high-quality pathways into good advanced manufacturing jobs and careers,
including:

-   The Department of Labor (DOL) is announcing an Advanced
    Manufacturing Registered Apprenticeship Accelerator Series that will
    support hundreds of employers to speed the development and launch of
    Registered Apprenticeship programs in high-demand occupations, such
    as industrial manufacturing technicians, robotics technicians, and
    industrial maintenance mechanics. Since the beginning of this
    Administration, the number of apprentices in advanced manufacturing
    Registered Apprenticeship programs has increased by 10 percent—and
    this effort will build on that growth.  
     
-   BioFabUSA is launching a new Registered Apprenticeship program for
    biofabrication technicians. This program will provide apprentices,
    including veterans, with the skills and knowledge essential to earn
    industry-recognized credentials and advance in a career in
    healthcare innovation.  
     
-   DOL will convene a national table of leading labor, industry and
    workforce organizations in the manufacturing sector and support them
    to develop and lift up workforce solutions that equitably build and
    grow the next generation of a manufacturing workforce. To support
    this cross-sector effort, the AFL-CIO Working for America Institute
    will work with other organizations to develop, scale, and adopt a
    first-of-its-kind pre-apprenticeship curriculum and standards to
    provide a pathway for workers and students to a variety of good
    manufacturing jobs and careers.  
     
-   The AFL-CIO Working for America Institute has created a [new
    brief](https://www.workingforamerica.org/system/files/brief/_advancing/_partnerships/_final.pdf) to
    offer best practices and real-world examples of workforce
    development—including union-community college collaborations—within
    the building trades and manufacturing industries.  
     
-   The American Federation of Teachers (AFT)—with its affiliates the
    New York State United Teachers and the United Federation of
    Teachers—is working with Micron to help students get ready for the
    thousands of new technical careers in the semiconductor industry.
    Through the cooperation, AFT and its affiliates are piloting a
    new framework, teacher training, and work-based learning
    opportunities. After piloting the framework, it will be made widely
    accessible—enabling other communities to scale this program that
    supports the alignment of education and workforce development
    programs, including for K-12 students and underrepresented
    students.  
     
-   The National Science Foundation (NSF) and DOL will work together to
    ensure the incorporation of equity, job quality, and worker
    empowerment in advanced manufacturing research and workforce
    development programs across the federal government, including by
    providing technical assistance to awardees as appropriate.  
     
-   The Cybersecurity Manufacturing Innovation Institute (CyManII) has
    committed to developing and launching a new education and training
    program for advanced manufacturing professions that will reskill up
    to 10,000 students through an Introduction to ICS Cybersecurity
    training for the manufacturing sector. This commitment supports the
    National Cyber Workforce and Education Strategy, in addition to the
    Sprint.

The convening will also highlight existing efforts to ensure workforce
development programs effectively meet the needs of workers and
employers, such as:

-   The Investing in America Workforce Hubs—announced in five cities
    across the country in May that are seeing significant public and
    private sector investment and job creation in key
    industries—continue to make progress expanding pathways in advanced
    manufacturing jobs and careers in those regions. For example:  
    -   In the Pittsburgh Workforce Hub, the Advanced Robotics for
        Manufacturing (ARM) Institute and New Century Careers will
        launch a new rapid short-term, employer-driven training program
        to help dislocated workers re-enter the workforce in good
        quality, high-demand manufacturing jobs.  
         
    -   In July, in the Columbus Workforce Hub, Columbus State Community
        College [announced](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/07/12/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-launches-workforce-hub-in-columbus-ohio-and-announces-new-commitments-to-help-more-workers-access-good-jobs/) that
        it will work with allies across the state to quadruple the
        number of students trained for engineering technology jobs over
        the next five years.  
         
-   In August, Siemens’ non-profit arm, the Siemens Foundation,
    committed $30 million to fund EVeryone Charging Forward, an
    initiative to advance inclusive workforce development in the EV
    charging sector with a focus on accessible training opportunities in
    underserved and underrepresented communities.

Recent federal investments to support advanced manufacturing workforce
development include:

-   In September, NSF announced nearly $100 million in funding including
    with support from the CHIPS and Science Act and across programs that
    push the frontiers of research, expand workforce development and
    experiential learning, and support industry collaboration to ensure
    that the future manufacturing workforce is developing skills needed
    for today and tomorrow.  
    -   The NSF Future of Semiconductor (FuSe) program, a public-private
        partnership with Intel, IBM, Ericsson and Samsung to train the
        next generation of talent in the semiconductor industry,
        announced $45.6 million in awards for 24 research and workforce
        development projects across 47 institutions.  
         
    -   The NSF Future Manufacturing program, which makes targeted
        investments in advanced manufacturing research and workforce
        development, awarded $35 million to 21 projects across 40
        institutions in 25 states for a variety of research and
        workforce development programs, including manufacturing in space
        and underwater, AI-based manufacturing, and biological
        therapeutics. Over the past four years, this program has
        supported an estimated $137 million in awards.  
         
    -   The NSF ExLENT program, a first-of-a-kind training initiative to
        provide current professionals in any field an experiential
        learning opportunity that builds the skills and competencies
        they need to pivot into careers in technologies critical to the
        nation’s long-term competitiveness, announced the inaugural
        project cohort of $18.8 million to 27 teams working to build
        cooperation between research and workforce development in
        microelectronics, biomanufacturing, energy, and other emerging
        occupations.   
         
-   Last week, DOL awarded [$94
    million](https://www.dol.gov/newsroom/releases/eta/eta20230926) in
    Building Pathways to Infrastructure Jobs funding to 34 grantees, 30
    of which will target renewable energy and transportation sectors
    that can include advanced manufacturing occupations.  
     
-   This summer, DOL awarded 19 states more than [$35
    million](https://www.dol.gov/newsroom/releases/eta/eta20230719) through
    the State Apprenticeship Expansion Grants that will focus on
    advanced manufacturing as a target sector for expanding Registered
    Apprenticeship programs.  
     
-   In September, the Department of Defense awarded six Defense
    Manufacturing Community Support Program (DMCSP) grants totaling
    approximately $30 million from the Office of Local Defense Community
    Cooperation. The DMCSP makes long-term investments in critical
    skills, facilities, workforce development, research and development,
    and small business support to strengthen the national security
    innovation base.

During the convening, Lael Brainard, Director of the National Economic
Council, Neera Tanden, Director of the Domestic Policy Council, and Dr.
Arati Prabhakar, Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy
will join senior leaders from companies, unions, community colleges,
Manufacturing USA institutes, and other organizations to discuss how to
leverage the Sprint to continue to build collaborations to enhance the
quality of advanced manufacturing jobs and ensure workforce development
programs effectively meet the needs of workers and employers.  
  
The Biden-Harris Advanced Manufacturing Sprint builds on the
Administration’s prior workforce sprints, which have driven commitments
to equitable workforce development and job quality improvement to
address critical needs. These include efforts to expand Registered
Apprenticeships
in [trucking](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/04/04/fact-sheet-the-biden-administrations-unprecedented-actions-to-expand-and-improve-trucking-jobs/) and [cybersecurity](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/11/15/fact-sheet-biden-%E2%81%A0harris-administration-accomplishes-cybersecurity-apprenticeship-sprint/),
and to build pathways into good jobs and careers in broadband,
electrification, and construction through the [Talent Pipeline
Challenge](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/11/02/fact-sheet-president-biden-celebrates-new-commitments-toward-equitable-workforce-development-for-infrastructure-jobs/).
It also supports the goals of [the
plan](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/06/Building-the-Bioworkforce-of-the-Future.pdf) to
expand education and training opportunities to biotechnology and
biomanufacturing released in July.
