---
date: '2023-10-23'
published_time: 2023-10-23 10:30:08-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/10/23/fact-sheet-implementation-plan-for-the-united-states-national-strategy-for-the-arctic-region/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Implementation Plan for the United\_States\u2019 National Strategy\
  \ for the Arctic\_Region"
---
 
The Biden-Harris Administration continues to take bold action to meet
the urgency of the climate crisis and to protect our lands and waters
for future generations. This ambitious climate and conservation agenda
is evident in the recently released National Strategy for the Arctic
Region (NSAR), which sets an affirmative U.S. agenda for the Arctic over
the next ten years. An update of its 2013 predecessor, the NSAR
addresses the climate crisis with greater insistence and directs new
investments in sustainable development to improve livelihoods for Arctic
residents, while conserving the environment. It also positions the
United States to effectively balance the need for continued cooperation
and collaboration in the region with increasing strategic competition,
exacerbated by Russia’s unprovoked war in Ukraine and the People’s
Republic of China’s escalating efforts to garner influence in the
region.

Today, the Administration is releasing the Implementation Plan for the
NSAR (NSARIP). The NSARIP serves as a blueprint for an approach to
realizing the vision set out in the NSAR and ensures continued
collaboration with the wide array of stakeholders with interests in the
Arctic. The NSARIP details more than 30 objectives and 200 discrete
actions that advance the four mutually reinforcing pillars of the
National Strategy.  
  
Each strategic objective in the NSARIP assigns lead and supporting
agencies, potential external partners, timeline for completion, and
measures for progress. Like the National Strategy, the Implementation
Plan benefitted from input from a wide range of stakeholders concerned
about the Arctic Region, both in the United States and in other
nations.  The United States Government will continue to update the
Implementation Plan periodically as conditions in the Arctic evolve.  
  
[*Read the full National Strategy here; Read the full Implementation
Plan
here*](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/10/NSAR-Implementation-Plan.pdf)

\###
