---
date: '2023-10-30'
modified_time: 2023-10-29 20:11:18-04:00
published_time: 2023-10-30 11:30:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/10/30/fact-sheetbiden-harris-administration-announces-historic-investment-to-bolster-nations-electric-grid-infrastructure-cut-energy-costs-for-families-and-create-good-paying-jobs/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET:Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Announces Historic Investment\
  \ to Bolster Nation\u2019s Electric Grid Infrastructure, Cut Energy Costs for Families,\
  \ and Create Good-paying\_Jobs"
---
 
Across the country, the electric grid connects 145 million households
and businesses. But many parts of the nation’s grid are over a century
old and in dire need of upgrades. Last year, the United States
experienced 18 separate natural disasters that resulted in millions of
American families losing power. These outages hurt the economy –
the [Department of Energy
estimates](https://www.energy.gov/ne/articles/department-energy-report-explores-us-advanced-small-modular-reactors-boost-grid) that
power outages cost American businesses $150 billion annually.
Additionally, increased transmission is necessary to enable more clean
energy that will reduce home energy costs and cut emissions.  Now more
than ever, it is critical to invest in a clean, reliable electric grid –
to ensure that communities don’t lose power when a major storm hits, to
lower energy costs for hardworking families, and to achieve President
Biden’s goal to deliver 100% clean electricity by 2035.  
  
**That’s why President Biden’s Investing in America agenda, a key pillar
of Bidenomics, is delivering the largest electric grid infrastructure
investment in history – more than $30 billion from the Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law and Inflation Reduction Act.** Through this historic
investment in America’s electric grid, the Biden-Harris Administration
is catalyzing development of thousands of miles of new and upgraded
transmission lines that will reduce electricity costs for hardworking
families and small businesses, prevent power outages in the face of
extreme weather made worse by the climate crisis, strengthen America’s
energy security, create good-paying jobs, and drive innovation and
deployment of renewable energy technologies.  
  
As part of this unprecedented commitment, **the Department of Energy
today announced a new **[**$1.3
billion**](https://www.energy.gov/gdo/transmission-facilitation-program)** commitment
in three transmission lines crossing six states – Arizona, Nevada, New
Hampshire, New Mexico, Utah, and Vermont – **to deliver affordable,
reliable power to households across the country, creating more than
13,000 direct and indirect high-quality local jobs – many of them union
jobs. Additionally, to ensure that transmission buildout is done
efficiently, the Department of Energy today released the
final [**National Transmission Needs
Study**](https://www.energy.gov/gdo/national-transmission-needs-study),
which provides insight into where the grid – and American communities –
would benefit from increased transmission, by assessing current and
anticipated future capacity constraints and congestion on the Nation’s
electric grid.

This announcement comes on the heels of the nearly [**$3.5
billion**](https://www.energy.gov/articles/biden-harris-administration-announces-35-billion-largest-ever-investment-americas-electric)** investmentannounced
last week by the Department of Energy to strengthen grid reliability and
resilience** across 44 states, sparking a combined public-private
investment of $8 billion, and bringing more than 35 gigawatts of new
renewable energy online—enough to power about 30 million households. The
58 new projects supported by this investment will create and maintain
good-paying and union jobs, including through labor partnerships with
the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers. In addition, the
Department of Energy has recently announced more than [**$748
million**](https://www.energy.gov/gdo/grid-resilience-statetribal-formula-grant-program) in
formula funding to states, territories, and tribes through the Grid
Resilience State and Tribal Formula Grants program to strengthen and
modernize America’s power grid against wildfires, extreme weather, and
other natural disasters that are exacerbated by the climate crisis.

Through these investments, the Biden-Harris Administration is working
to:  
  
**Expand capacity and unlock renewable energy resources:** Electrifying
homes, buildings, and vehicles will reduce greenhouse gas emissions and
reducing costs.

-   The Joint Targeted Interconnection Queue Transmission Study Process
    and Portfolio (JTIQ) will coordinate the planning and construction
    of transmission projects across seven Midwest states—Iowa, Kansas,
    Nebraska, North Dakota, Minnesota, Missouri, and South Dakota. This
    project is receiving up to $464 million to unlock approximately 30
    gigawatts of renewable generation, lower energy costs, and enhance
    community engagement and workforce development.  
     
-   The Confederated Tribes of Warm Springs Reservation of Oregon and
    Portland General Electric (PGE) will upgrade transmission capacity
    and connect PGE customers with the currently isolated renewable
    resources east of the Cascade Mountains, including those on the Warm
    Springs Reservation—building a bridge to up to 1,800 megawatts of
    carbon-free solar resources.  
     
-   The Southline Project will connect wind power in New Mexico to
    cities in Arizona to meet burgeoning demand for clean energy.  
     
-   The Twin States Clean Energy Link Project will connect to existing
    transmission lines to allow clean energy from Canada to reach New
    England, and vice versa.  
     
-   The Cross-Tie Project will facilitate the delivery of renewable
    energy in the West between Idaho, Wyoming, and the Midwest to Nevada
    and Utah.

**Reduce the frequency and duration of power outages: **Investments in
grid hardening—like strengthening critical transmission lines, hardening
electric poles with stronger materials, and improving flood
mitigation—will ensure that communities have power when natural disaster
strikes and that power outages do not last long when they do occur.
Recently announced investments will also support more than 400
microgrids, which can continue to operate if the main grid is affected
by an extreme weather event.

-   In southeastern Pennsylvania, PECO Energy Company will increase grid
    reliability and resilience through substation flood mitigation,
    upgrading monitoring systems, deploying battery systems for backup
    power, replacing aging infrastructure, and installing advanced
    conductors to increase grid capacity. These investments will
    decrease power outages and provide energy resources for faster
    system recover and response.  
     
-   In Detroit and surrounding communities, DTE Energy will deploy
    adaptive networked microgrids, which will adapt to changing energy
    demands and supply conditions in real-time, especially after extreme
    weather events. The microgrids will have new sensing and
    communication tools that will enhance reliability and reduce the
    number and total duration of outages in the microgrid areas. 

**Mitigate risk of wildfire: **By investing in projects that move
overhead power lines that are threatened by high winds or heavy snow,
removing hazard trees, and making technology-based upgrades and
improvements, utilities can better predict when and where there are
high-risk conditions for wildfires, better detect wildfires earlier on,
and reduce the need to proactively shut off power in regions that are
at-risk for wildfires.

-   Hawaiian Electric will use up to $95 million to harden electric
    grids across Hawaii, which includes wildfire mitigation efforts like
    undergrounding power lines, removing hazard trees, and installing
    monitoring systems for outage notifications and smoke detection.  
     
-   Holy Cross Energy, in conjunction with NRECA Research, will launch a
    wildfire mitigation project with 39 small, rural, not-for-profit
    electric co-ops in areas that are at high risk for wildfires. The
    project will enable members to harden their networks by deploying
    fire-resistant grid infrastructure, undergrounding lines, or
    upgrading overhead lines to reduce risk of catastrophic wildfires
    and to increase wildfire resilience. 

Additionally, the Biden-Harris Administration is accelerating
transmission by modernizing permitting, advancing next-generation
planning, and more. Key actions include:

-   **Breaking Ground on Ten Major Transmission Projects: Breaking
    Ground on Ten Major Transmission Projects: **Since 2021, ten
    high-capacity transmission projects have begun construction,
    expected to connect 19.5 GW of new generation to the grid and
    representing over $22 billion in investment. Federal permitting
    progress by the Biden-Harris Administration helped achieve this
    milestone. The Department of the Interior has successfully
    shepherded several major transmission projects on public lands
    through environmental reviews to approvals including: [Gateway
    South](https://www.blm.gov/press-release/biden-harris-administration-approves-construction-energy-gateway-south-transmission), [Gateway
    West](https://www.blm.gov/press-release/blm-approves-segments-gateway-west-transmission-line-wyoming), [Ten
    West](https://www.doi.gov/pressreleases/biden-harris-administration-celebrates-groundbreaking-new-transmission-line-delivering), [TransWestExpress](https://www.doi.gov/pressreleases/biden-harris-administration-celebrates-groundbreaking-new-transmission-line-0),
    and the [SunZia Southwest Transmission
    Project](https://www.doi.gov/pressreleases/biden-harris-administration-advances-sunzia-southwest-transmission-project).  
     
-   **Accelerating Federal Permitting: **The Department of Energy
    proposed a rule to establish the [Coordinated Interagency
    Transmission Authorization and Permits (CITAP)
    Program](https://www.energy.gov/gdo/articles/biden-harris-administration-proposes-rulemaking-streamline-and-set-deadlines-federal) to
    accelerate federal permitting of transmission infrastructure, with a
    two-year timeline to improve efficiency while ensuring meaningful
    stakeholder engagement. This proposal follows
    an [MOU](https://www.energy.gov/sites/default/files/2023-05/5-04-2023%20216h%20Transmission%20MOU.pdf) between
    nine federal agencies to facilitate timely, responsible, and
    equitable transmission permitting – part of the Biden-Harris
    Administration’s [Permitting Action
    Plan](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/05/11/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-releases-permitting-action-plan-to-accelerate-and-deliver-infrastructure-projects-on-time-on-task-and-on-budget/).  
     
-   **Launching Additional Transmission Programs: **The U.S. Department
    of Agriculture opened applications for the [Empowering Rural America
    (New ERA)
    program](https://www.rd.usda.gov/programs-services/electric-programs/empowering-rural-america-new-era-program),
    with $9.7 billion from the IRA for rural electric cooperatives to
    help rural Americans benefit from clean, affordable and reliable
    energy – including by improving transmission systems. Additionally,
    the Department of Energy is currently accepting applications through
    the new Inflation Reduction Act (IRA) funded [Transmission Siting
    and Economic Development (TSED)
    program](https://www.energy.gov/gdo/transmission-siting-and-economic-development-grants-program).
    This new initiative is designed to overcome challenges to expanding
    transmission capacity while also supporting communities along major
    new and upgraded lines. The Department of Energy is accepting
    concept papers through November 17, 2023 at 5 p.m. ET.  
     
-   **Improving Interconnection Process: **The Federal Energy Regulatory
    Commission issued a [final
    rule](https://www.ferc.gov/news-events/news/fact-sheet-improvements-generator-interconnection-procedures-and-agreements) to
    improve the process of connecting energy projects to the
    transmission grid, with reforms to address long wait times for
    interconnection by helping ready-to-go projects get reviewed more
    quickly and in more efficient clusters, and by increasing
    consideration of advanced technologies that can help solve
    interconnection challenges.  
     
-   **Expanding Financing for Transmission Reconductoring: **The
    Department of Energy issued guidance for how [$250 billion in loan
    guarantee
    authority](https://www.energy.gov/lpo/articles/lpos-updated-title-17-clean-energy-financing-program-guidance-connects-eligible) can
    support Energy Infrastructure Reinvestment Projects, specifying
    eligibility for transmission reconductoring projects that replace
    the cores of existing transmission lines in order to increase
    capacity without requiring permitting of a new route.  
     
-   **Advancing Offshore Wind Transmission: **The Department of Energy
    and the Department of the Interior issued a [comprehensive action
    plan](https://www.energy.gov/articles/biden-harris-administration-releases-roadmap-accelerate-offshore-wind-transmission-and) to
    connect the first generation of Atlantic offshore wind projects to
    the electric grid and increase transmission over the next several
    decades. This plan lays out steps to collaborate across
    jurisdictions on transmission planning, technological development,
    economic support, and siting and permitting. The Department of
    Energy
    also [established](https://www.energy.gov/gdo/offshore-wind-transmission-federal-planning-support) a
    new [Tribal Nation Offshore Wind Transmission Technical
    Assistance](https://www.energy.gov/gdo/tribal-nation-offshore-wind-transmission-technical-assistance-program) Program,
    launched a [West Coast Offshore Wind Transmission
    Study,](https://www.energy.gov/gdo/tribal-nation-offshore-wind-transmission-technical-assistance-program) and
    initiated a Gulf of Mexico Offshore Wind Transmission Literature
    Review and Gaps Analysis.

\###
