---
date: '2023-10-16'
modified_time: 2023-10-15 18:45:37-04:00
published_time: 2023-10-16 05:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/10/16/president-biden-to-visit-largest-wind-tower-manufacturer-in-the-world-highlight-how-bidenomics-is-driving-record-investments-in-congresswoman-lauren-boeberts-district/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden to Visit Largest Wind Tower Manufacturer in the World, Highlight\
  \ How Bidenomics Is Driving Record Investments in Congresswoman Lauren Boebert\u2019\
  s\_District"
---
 
*President Biden will discuss how the Inflation Reduction Act is
creating clean energy jobs in communities across the country, as extreme
Congressional Republicans try to repeal the law and deny the impacts of
climate change*

Today, President Biden will visit CS Wind in Pueblo, Colorado — the
largest wind tower manufacturer in the world — to highlight how his
Bidenomics agenda is creating jobs and opportunities in Colorado’s third
congressional district. CS Wind recently announced it is expanding
operations and creating hundreds of jobs as a direct result of the
Inflation Reduction Act — which extreme Congressional Republicans like
Representative Lauren Boebert called “dangerous for America,” a “massive
failure,” and “bad for Colorado’s Third District.”  
  
The President’s visit is part of his Administration’s [Investing in
America
tour](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/10/05/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-to-kick-off-third-investing-in-america-tour-tout-historic-investments-benefitting-communities-across-the-country/),
where Administration leaders are traveling across the country to
highlight how Bidenomics and the President’s Investing in America agenda
are delivering for communities across the country and confronting the
climate crisis, while Republicans in Congress try to undermine the
President’s investments in their communities, deny climate change, and
work to block their constituents from good jobs and opportunity.  
  
**Since President Biden took office, companies have announced **[$5
billion](http://www.invest.gov/)** in investments in Colorado —
including hundreds of millions of dollars of investments in
Representative Boebert’s district. But if extreme Congressional
Republicans like Representative Boebert had their way, Colorado would
lose out on billions of dollars of those investments, jobs, and
opportunities:**

-   **Earlier this year, CS Wind broke ground on an over $200 million
    expansion to their Pueblo facility and directly attributed their
    investment to the Inflation Reduction Act **and the President’s
    Bidenomics agenda. The investment to expand the largest wind tower
    manufacturing facility in the world will create 850 new jobs in
    Colorado’s Third District by 2026 and expand the facility to meet
    the increased demand for wind tower manufacturing, bring clean
    energy supply chains to the United States, and create clean energy
    jobs. Since beginning the expansion, CS Wind has more than doubled
    their workforce in Pueblo, hiring 500 new employees so far.
    -   **But Representative Boebert said voting against the Inflation
        Reduction Act would be “**[**the easiest no vote
        yet**](https://twitter.com/RepBoebert/status/1556677231975571457)**,” **even
        though the law is bringing over 800 new jobs to her district
        from this one project alone.  
         
-   **Last October, Primergy Solar announced a $400 million investment
    to build a 1,900-acre solar field in Pueblo that could power up to
    56,000 homes and create 250 jobs.**
    -   **Representative Boebert still called the Inflation Reduction
        Act a “massive failure”** nearly one year after Primergy made
        their announcement, which could benefit tens of thousands of
        people in Rep. Boebert’s district.  
         
-   **Outside groups estimate that the Inflation Reduction Act has
    helped create over 3,500 good-paying clean energy jobs in Colorado
    in the one year since the law was signed.**
    -   **Representative Boebert called the Inflation Reduction Act
        “**[**dangerous for
        America**](https://boebert.house.gov/media/newsletters/fighting-deep-state)**”
        and said it “**[**needs to be
        repealed**](https://twitter.com/laurenboebert/status/1574927219138318336)**”
        — **which would put in jeopardy thousands of jobs it has already
        created in her home state.

And if Representative Boebert had her way, Colorado would have lost out
on over $4.6 billion in infrastructure projects already announced in
Colorado, including over $1 billion in funding for high-speed internet
from President Biden’s Bipartisan Infrastructure Law:

-   The Bipartisan Infrastructure Law provided nearly **$17 million to
    redesign streets **and better connect the West Side to downtown in
    Pueblo and **$13.2 million to revitalize Main Street** in Delta,
    Colorado — both located in Colorado’s Third District
    -   **Representative Boebert called the Infrastructure Law
        “garbage,” and “wasteful” —** proudly leading opposition to the
        law.  
         
-   The Bipartisan Infrastructure Law also invested $160 million in the
    Arkansas Valley Conduit — a 103-mile water pipeline that starts in
    Pueblo and will bring water to 50,000 people across southeastern
    Colorado.
    -   **Representative Boebert called the Infrastructure Law a “scam,”
        and claimed it was “punishment for rural America.”**

President Biden made a commitment that he would be president for all
Americans, regardless of political party, and he’s kept that promise.
The Biden-Harris Administration will continue to deliver for workers and
families in Colorado’s Third District and across the country — even if
extreme Congressional Republicans put politics ahead of jobs and
opportunities created by Bidenomics.

\###
