---
date: '2023-10-29'
modified_time: 2023-10-30 11:15:34-04:00
published_time: 2023-10-29 08:15:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/10/29/fact-sheet-president-biden-to-visit-minnesota-to-highlight-investments-in-rural-america-lead-administration-wide-rural-event-series/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: President\_Biden to Visit Minnesota to Highlight Investments in\
  \ Rural America, Lead Administration-Wide Rural Event\_Series"
---
 
On Wednesday, November 1, President Biden will travel to Minnesota to
lead his Administration’s Investing in Rural America Event Series. Over
the course of two weeks, President Biden, Cabinet members, and Senior
Administration Officials will barnstorm across the country to highlight
how Bidenomics and the President’s Investing in America agenda are
ensuring rural Americans do not have to leave their hometowns to find
opportunity. The Administration’s investments, including climate smart
agriculture, are bringing new revenue to farms, increased economic
development in rural towns and communities and more opportunity
throughout the country.  
  
During the Event Series, President Biden and leaders across the
Administration will travel to rural communities across the country that
are benefitting from President Biden’s Investing in America agenda. This
includes rural communities that are leveraging Bipartisan Infrastructure
Law funding to support critical infrastructure such as high-speed
internet, safe roads and bridges, modern wastewater systems, clean
drinking water, and reliable and affordable electricity. This also
includes rural communities that are expanding access to clean energy and
lowering energy costs for rural Americans through the Inflation
Reduction Act and the CHIPS and Science Act. The Event Series will also
highlight farmers benefitting from the climate-smart agriculture
investments supported by the Inflation Reduction Act, as well as
American Rescue Plan funding that is strengthening local food systems,
creating new and better markets opportunities, and enhancing competition
for farmers. It will highlight how the Investing in America agenda has
delivered for Tribal communities—from the American Rescue Plan, which
made the largest infusion of federal funding into Indian Country ever to
the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, which made the largest investment in
Tribal infrastructure ever. Lastly, the series will highlight various
efforts to improve the health care rural Americans receive at lower
costs, and expand access to health care services in rural communities.  
  
During the Event Series, the President and leaders across the
Administration will showcase how investing in America means equitably
investing in *all* of America – leaving no one behind.  
  
As part of the Investing in Rural America Event Series:

-   **President Biden and Secretary of Agriculture Tom Vilsack** will
    visit a family farm in Minnesota to highlight the Biden-Harris
    Administration’s investments in rural America and efforts to support
    local farmers and communities.
-   **Secretary Vilsack** will also travel to Indiana to speak with FFA
    about opportunities for the next generation of agricultural leaders,
    as well as to Wyoming and Colorado to discuss how the Biden-Harris
    Administration is investing in Rural America, and helping protect
    and conserve our lands for future generations.
-   **Deputy Secretary of Agriculture Xochitl Torres Small** will travel
    to Wisconsin and Michigan, to highlight the Biden-Harris
    Administration’s efforts to boost rural economic development and
    create new opportunities for rural families.
-   **Secretary Haaland** will travel to New Mexico to highlight rural
    water infrastructure investments from the Biden-Harris
    Administration and Colorado to highlight Bipartisan Infrastructure
    Law-funded projects to remediate abandoned mine lands in rural
    communities. She will also focus on rural investments during remarks
    at the Western Governors Association meeting in Wyoming.
-   **Secretary of Energy Jennifer M. Granholm** will travel to Arizona
    to highlight how the Biden-Harris Administration is making historic
    investments to upgrade the electric grid to deliver clean energy to
    rural communities across the Southwest and the entire United States.
-   **Secretary of Veterans Affairs Denis McDonough** will travel to
    Iowa to highlight how the Biden-Harris Administration is supporting
    our nation’s veterans who live in rural communities by ensuring they
    have access to quality medical care.
-   **Deputy Secretary of Veterans Affairs Tanya** **Bradsher** will
    travel to Washington State and Oregon to highlight how the
    Biden-Harris Administration is improving access to health care for
    veterans in rural communities.
-   **Small Business Administrator Isabel Guzman** will travel to
    Georgia, to highlight the Biden-Harris Administration’s efforts to
    support rural small businesses, including loans for small
    businesses.
-   **Secretary of Education Miguel Cardona** will travel to New
    Hampshire to highlight how community colleges are preparing rural
    Americans for good jobs in industries across the country, and how
    the Biden-Harris Administration is working to increase access to
    career pathways for more students and families.
-   **Secretary of Health and Human Services Xavier Becerra** will
    travel to North Carolina to highlight the Administration’s efforts
    to deliver quality health care to rural Americans, including access
    to vaccines and support for substance use disorder.
-   **Acting Secretary of Labor Julie Su** will travel to Pennsylvania
    to highlight how the Biden-Harris Administration is helping workers
    in rural America access good jobs, including union jobs, without
    having to leave their hometowns.
-   **USTR Ambassador Katherine Tai** will travel to Indiana to
    highlight the Biden-Harris Administration’s efforts to support rural
    communities through international trade by ensuring that the
    benefits of trade reach farmers and producers.
-   **Housing and Urban Development Deputy Secretary Adrianne Todman**
    will travel to rural Southwest Georgia to speak about affordable
    housing and promote broadband connectivity for HUD-assisted
    families.
-   **GSA Administrator Carnahan and Senior Advisor to the President
    John Podesta** will travel to Kansas to tout the Biden-Harris
    Administration’s work to spur demand for lower-carbon construction
    materials, invest in American innovation, and create good-paying
    jobs.

The Investing in Rural America Event Series will focus on existing and
new investments the Biden-Harris Administration has made to grow the
economy from the bottom-up and middle-out, and to create opportunity for
local producers, families, and communities. This includes:  
  
**Creating New and Better Agricultural Markets to Increase
Competition**  
  
Under the Biden-Harris Administration, USDA has invested $1 billion to
expand [independent meat and poultry processing
capacity](https://www.usda.gov/meat) to give farmers more market options
and fairer prices, and reduce reliance on a small handful of large meat
and poultry corporations. These investments are also providing consumers
with more choices and affordable prices at the grocery store. This is
part of the Biden-Harris Administration’s [Action Plan for a Fairer,
More Competitive, and More Resilient Meat and Poultry Supply
Chain](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/01/03/fact-sheet-the-biden-harris-action-plan-for-a-fairer-more-competitive-and-more-resilient-meat-and-poultry-supply-chain/).
USDA has awarded nearly $366.9 million to help more than 300 businesses
[build or expand new meat and poultry processing
facilities](https://www.usda.gov/meat) in rural areas, or to help them
achieve a federal grant of inspection so they can serve more
customers.  
  
To spur production of independent, American-made fertilizer, USDA has
also made $900 million available through the [Fertilizer Production
Expansion
Program](https://www.usda.gov/media/press-releases/2023/10/16/usda-highlights-progress-partnering-farmers-increase-innovative),
increasing innovative domestic fertilizer production, creating jobs in
rural communities, and giving farmers more options. USDA has awarded
more than $121 million in more than 30 projects to create a stronger,
more sustainable fertilizer supply chain, helping mitigate increases in
fertilizer costs caused by Russia’s illegal invasion of Ukraine.  
  
**Investing in Climate-Smart Agriculture**  
  
The Biden-Harris Administration is helping farmers become more resilient
in the face of climate change while sequestering carbon and reducing
greenhouse gas emissions, allowing them to tap into new revenue streams
and market opportunities.  These investments are creating new income and
opportunity to family farms. Through its groundbreaking [Partnerships
for Climate-Smart
Commodities](https://www.usda.gov/climate-solutions/climate-smart-commodities)
initiative, USDA is investing more than $3.1 billion for 141 projects
that seek to build and expand market opportunities for American
commodities produced using climate-smart practices. Through the
Inflation Reduction Act, which provided a [record $19.5 billion for USDA
conservation
programs](https://www.usda.gov/media/press-releases/2023/09/19/usda-sees-record-interest-conservation-and-clean-energy-programs),
hundreds of thousands of farmers and ranchers will have the resources to
apply practices like cover cropping, conservation tillage, wetland
restoration, prescribed grazing, nutrient management, tree planting, and
more to millions of acres of land. This has direct climate mitigation
benefits and advances a host of other environmental co-benefits, in
addition to offering farmers, ranchers and foresters new revenue
streams.  
  
**Investing in Rural American Infrastructure**  
  
For far too long, critical infrastructure needs in rural communities
have been ignored. Building on an initial investment provided by the
American Rescue Plan, the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law delivers on the
President’s promises to provide high speed internet, safe roads and
bridges, modern wastewater systems, clean drinking water, reliable and
affordable electricity, and good paying jobs in every rural community. A
generational investment in rural America, the Bipartisan Infrastructure
Law is investing billions of dollars to revitalize and rebuild rural
communities across the country. This funding also represents the single
largest investment in Tribal infrastructure ever. The Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law provides $65 billion to ensure every American has
access to affordable, reliable high-speed internet through a historic
investment in broadband infrastructure deployment. That includes a $2
billion program at the Department of Commerce to invest in high-speed
internet on Tribal lands. Since 2021, USDA has announced over $2 billion
to 107 projects that will expand access to high-speed broadband to more
than 300,000 people through its [ReConnect
Program](https://www.usda.gov/reconnect), which provides the
construction, improvement, or acquisition of facilities and equipment
needed to provide high speed internet service in rural areas.  
  
The Bipartisan Infrastructure Law also provides an historic $8.25
billion investment to reduce wildfire risks for communities, better
detect wildfires, and institute workforce reforms and landmark pay
increases for federal wildland firefighters. Through the [Community
Wildfire Defense Grant
program](https://www.fs.usda.gov/managing-land/fire/grants) USDA has
awarded $197 million to 99 project proposals across 22 states and 7
tribes, which will assist with planning for and mitigating wildfire
risks. USDA is also making [$150 million
available](https://www.usda.gov/media/press-releases/2023/08/22/biden-harris-administration-invests-150m-connect-underserved-and)
to help underserved and small acreage forest landowners connect to
emerging voluntary climate markets. These markets can provide economic
opportunities for landowners and incentivize improved forest health and
management.  
  
Additionally, the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law invests billions of
dollars to make sure rural families can get where they need to go,
including through a $4.58 billion investment in Rural Area Formula
Grants at the Department of Transportation. This program will support
1,300 rural transit systems by enabling them to purchase transit
vehicles and infrastructure, plan transit more effectively, and fund
operations. And $5 billion in funding over 5 years is supporting local
initiatives to prevent roadway injuries and fatalities and make rural
roads safer. This program benefits local communities and Tribes all
across the nation and is a key part of DOT’s National Roadway Safety
Strategy, with a goal of reducing roadway fatalities to zero.  
  
**Delivering Clean, Reliable Water to Rural America**  
  
Too many communities in the United States are still living without the
basics—including safe and reliable drinking water and wastewater
systems. An estimated 2.2 million people in the U.S. lack basic running
water and indoor plumbing in their homes. The Bipartisan Infrastructure
Law’s transformative $55 billion investment in our water and wastewater
infrastructure will fundamentally change quality of life for millions of
people in rural America by eliminating lead pipes, providing critical
access to sanitation, ensuring access to affordable clean drinking
water, and reducing drought. That includes a $3.5 billion investment in
the Indian Health Service to build out a safe supply of drinking water,
reliable sewage systems, and waste disposal facilities across Indian
Country. EPA and USDA, in collaboration with the states of Alabama,
Kentucky, Mississippi, New Mexico, North Carolina, West Virginia, as
well as the tribal nations of Santo Domingo Pueblo and San Carlos
Apache, are working together on the Closing America’s Wastewater Access
Gap Community Initiative to leverage technical assistance resources to
help historically underserved communities identify and pursue federal
funding opportunities to address their rural wastewater needs.  
  
The Bipartisan Infrastructure Law is also creating good-paying jobs
cleaning up pollution in rural areas by investing $4.7 billion to plug,
remediate, and restore dangerous orphan well sites across the country;
nearly $11.3 billion to create good-paying jobs, including union jobs,
and catalyze economic opportunity by reclaiming abandoned mine lands;
and $1 billion to initiate cleanup and clear the backlog of 49
previously unfunded Superfund sites and accelerate cleanup at dozens of
other sites across the country.  
  
In addition, the Biden-Harris Administration is leading a
[whole-of-government
effort](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/04/06/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-new-investments-to-protect-the-colorado-river-system/)
to make Western communities more resilient to climate change and the
ongoing megadrought by harnessing the full resources of the President’s
historic Investing in America agenda. The Inflation Reduction Act and
Bipartisan Infrastructure Law together include $15.4 billion to enhance
the West’s resilience to drought through water-saving projects and other
conservation efforts.  
  
**Lowering Energy Costs and Strengthening the Grid**  
  
President Biden’s Inflation Reduction Act made nearly $13 billion
available to support clean energy infrastructure for rural America
through USDA Rural Development programs. The [Empowering Rural America
(New ERA)
program](https://www.rd.usda.gov/programs-services/electric-programs/empowering-rural-america-new-era-program)
is the largest increase in investment in rural America’s electric system
since President Franklin Delano Roosevelt signed the Rural
Electrification Act in 1936. It invests $9.7 billion to help
member-owned rural electric cooperatives provide their communities with
clean, reliable energy that is also affordable. The [Powering Affordable
Clean Energy (PACE)
program](https://www.rd.usda.gov/programs-services/electric-programs/powering-affordable-clean-energy-pace-program)
will fund new clean energy and energy storage projects to make it more
affordable for rural Americans to use clean, reliable energy to heat and
cool their homes, run their businesses, and power their cars, schools,
and hospitals. The [Rural Energy for America (REAP)
program](https://www.rd.usda.gov/programs-services/energy-programs/rural-energy-america-program-renewable-energy-systems-energy-efficiency-improvement-guaranteed-loans)
– which received a $2 billion boost through the Inflation Reduction Act
– is also helping farms and small businesses invest in renewable energy
and energy efficiency improvements that will lower their energy costs,
generate new income, and strengthen the resilience of their
operations.  
  
The Bipartisan Infrastructure Law also invests billions of dollars to
improve resilience, reliability, safety, and availability of energy in
rural America. Last week, the Department of Energy announced nearly $3.5
billion through the Grid Resilience and Innovation Partnerships Program
to strengthen grid reliability and resilience across 44 states,
including several major rural grid resilience projects. This funding is
spurring private investment, bringing public-private investment to $8
billion to deliver affordable, clean electricity to all Americans and
ensure that communities across the nation have a reliable grid that is
prepared for extreme weather worsened by the climate crisis.  
  
And, by expanding the availability of homegrown biofuels, the
Biden-Harris Administration is also strengthening our energy
independence while bringing good-paying jobs and other economic benefits
to rural and farm communities. For example, up to $500 million from the
Inflation Reduction Act is being made available through the [Higher
Blends Infrastructure Incentive Program
(HBIIP)](https://www.usda.gov/media/press-releases/2023/06/26/biden-harris-administration-announces-funding-homegrown-biofuels)
to increase the availability of domestic biofuels and give Americans
additional, cleaner fuel options at the pump. Through this funding, USDA
has provided $25.8 million in grants to 59 projects.  
  
**Strengthening Local and Regional Food Systems**  
  
The Biden-Harris Administration is investing in local and regional food
systems, which adds value for both agricultural producers and consumers,
and spurs economic activity locally — helping communities that have been
left behind by the current agricultural models and supporting
good-paying jobs throughout the supply chain. USDA has helped created
[Twelve Regional Food Business
Centers](https://www.usda.gov/media/press-releases/2023/05/03/usda-announces-finalists-twelve-new-usda-regional-food-business)
across the country that are providing coordination, technical assistance
and capacity building to help farmers, ranchers and other food
businesses reach local customers and navigate federal state and local
resources. USDA is also investing [up to $125
million](https://www.usda.gov/media/press-releases/2023/04/19/usda-announces-funding-availability-expand-meat-and-poultry)
to improve Tribal nations’ food and agriculture supply chain resiliency
by developing and expanding value-added infrastructure related to meat
from indigenous animals like bison, reindeer or salmon, and has
announced [a new, interagency pilot
project](https://www.usda.gov/media/press-releases/2023/10/12/usda-invests-bison-purchase-pilot-incorporating-indian-country)
aimed at offering more localized ground bison meat for Tribal
communities through the Food Distribution Program on Indian Reservations
(FDPIR). In addition, the [Organic Transition Initiative
(OTI)](https://www.farmers.gov/your-business/organic/organic-transition-initiative)
is a $300 million effort through which USDA is offering tools to support
farmers in transitioning to organic and build and strengthen organic
markets so more farmers can participate. **Improving Access to Health
Care and Lowering Health Care Costs for Rural Communities  
**  
The Biden-Harris Administration is lowering health care costs for rural
Americans and supporting access to high quality care in rural America. 
Rural seniors are seeing lower drug costs, four states have expanded
Medicaid since President Biden took office, reducing the risk of rural
hospital closure by half, and the Administration continues to work to
expand access to health care.  The Biden-Harris Administration has
launched the new Rural Emergency Hospital designation to provide a new
option to some struggling hospitals, and it is investing in training the
next generation of health care providers to serve rural communities. The
Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) has also extended several
grant opportunities to support rural communities, including $28 million
to provide direct health services and expand infrastructure, $16 million
to provide technical assistance to rural hospitals facing financial
distress, and $161 million in awards for Emergency Rural Health Care
grants – in an effort to help maintain access to health care services
within rural communities. Lastly, recognizing the critical role nurses
play in providing primary care, mental health and maternal health care
services, particularly in rural areas, HHS
[announce](https://www.hhs.gov/about/news/2023/08/10/biden-harris-administration-announces-100-million-grow-nursing-workforce.html)d
more than $100 million in awards to address the increasing demand for
registered nurses, nurse practitioners, certified nurse midwives and
nurse faculty.  
  
**Partnering with Rural Communities to Create Jobs and Support Rural-led
Economic Development**  
  
The Rural Partners Network (RPN) is transforming the way the federal
government partners with rural communities to spur inclusive,
sustainable economic growth. Launched in April 2022, RPN staff on the
ground are now supporting 36 [community
networks](https://gcc02.safelinks.protection.outlook.com/?url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.rural.gov%2Fcommunity-networks&data=05%7C01%7C%7Ca37283e452f8408a532e08db56334ceb%7Ced5b36e701ee4ebc867ee03cfa0d4697%7C0%7C0%7C638198551092283397%7CUnknown%7CTWFpbGZsb3d8eyJWIjoiMC4wLjAwMDAiLCJQIjoiV2luMzIiLCJBTiI6Ik1haWwiLCJXVCI6Mn0%3D%7C3000%7C%7C%7C&sdata=bNx5C8APFh8ejD97GdrNTasaHErdcJgUY6MNuTDHxXc%3D&reserved=0) in
10 states and Puerto Rico. Since its inception, USDA has awarded $831
million to 138 projects addressing critical infrastructure, economic
development, and housing needs and more in RPN community networks. In
addition, in February 2021, President Biden established the [Interagency
Working Group on Coal and Power Plant Communities and Economic
Revitalization](https://energycommunities.gov/) to identify and deliver
resources to the coal, oil and gas, and power plant communities that
have powered our country for generations. Since then, member agencies
have helped drive nearly $18 billion in federal investment to these
communities.

\###
