---
date: '2023-10-30'
modified_time: 2023-10-30 12:08:31-04:00
published_time: 2023-10-30 12:08:30-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/10/30/what-they-are-saying-wide-range-of-community-advocates-and-industry-applaud-president-joe-bidens-efforts-to-extend-the-affordable-connectivity-program/
tags: statements-releases
title: "WHAT THEY ARE SAYING: Wide Range of Community Advocates and Industry Applaud\
  \ President Joe\_Biden\u2019s Efforts to Extend the Affordable Connectivity\_Program"
---
 
The White House is requesting additional funds to strengthen the
Affordable Connectivity Program program by extending free and discounted
high-speed internet for eligible households through December 2024.
Lowering costs – including internet costs – for American families is a
key part of the President’s Bidenomics agenda.

In the 21st century, affordable, reliable high-speed internet is a
necessity for Americans to do their jobs, participate equally in school
learning, access health care, and stay connected. But too often, high
costs create a barrier and tens of millions of families, students, and
seniors are left without access to high-speed internet, or have to
sacrifice other necessities to pay their internet bill, exacerbating
underlying inequities.

The Affordable Connectivity Program, enacted under the Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law, is already helping over 21 million households save
over $500 million per month on their monthly internet bills. The program
is also critical for the Administration’s high-speed internet deployment
programs for rural, remote, and Tribal communities. Without this
funding, tens of millions of people would lose this benefit and would no
longer be able to afford high-speed internet service without sacrificing
other necessities.  
  
*A wide range of elected officials, community advocates, public interest
groups, industry associations, internet service providers are
celebrating the Biden-Harris Administration’s commitment to affordable,
reliable, high-speed internet through the Affordable Connectivity
Program. Here’s what they are saying:*

**<u>Elected Officials</u>**

**California Congresswoman Doris Matsui:** “Today, President Biden
outlined a robust funding package that will help us secure our
technological future and deliver for the American people. Fast, reliable
broadband access determines who gets to participate in the modern
economy. That is why I have been such a staunch advocate of the
Affordable Connectivity Program, which has proven its ability to help us
close the digital divide and get Americans online. It is imperative that
we do not let this program lapse.”
\[[Statement](https://matsui.house.gov/media/press-releases/matsui-commends-president-biden-including-affordable-connectivity-program-rip),
10/25/2023\]

**African American Mayors Association:** “It is great to see the Biden
@WhiteHouse fighting to fund ACP. Black communities are
disproportionately impacted by the broadband affordability gap. ACP is
the best tool we have to close the digital divide. We need Congress to
extend funding.”
\[[Statement](https://twitter.com/OurMayors/status/1717939222894579919),
10/27/2023\]

**National Black Caucus of State Legislators (NBCSL):** **“**We urge
Congress to fund critical domestic needs to support families, expand
connectivity, and contribute to disaster relief aid.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/NBCSL77/status/1717622580390055985),
10/26/2023\]

**<u>Public Interest and Digital Advocacy Groups</u>**

  
**Executive Director of the National Digital Inclusion Alliance, Angela
Siefer:** “Along with librarians, digital navigators, and nonprofit
leaders from 1,500 organizations nationwide, NDIA celebrates the White
House’s renewed commitment to providing internet for all.”
\[[Statement](https://www.digitalinclusion.org/blog/2023/10/25/white-house-asks-congress-for-6-billion-to-keep-acp-going/),
10/25/2023\]

**Distinguished Fellow at the Georgetown Law Institute for Technology
Law & Policy and Benton Institute Senior Fellow, Gigi Sohn:** “Kudos to
the White House for including $6 billion in the domestic supplemental
for the Affordable Connectivity Program, the monthly broadband subsidy
for low-income, tribal and high cost households. It’s critical that
*everyone* is connected to the Internet!”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/gigibsohn/status/1717283571373617479),
10/25/2023\]

**Open Technology Institute:** “The @WhiteHouse just urged Congress to
fund the \#AffordableConnectivityProgram through December 2024.
Congress: The ball is in your court. Act now to help millions of
American households get connected—and stay connected—with high-speed
\#broadband.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/oti/status/1717294986847305821?s=46),
10/25/2023\]

**R Street Institute, Jonathan Cannon:** “ACP has proven itself to be
one of the better broadband programs and has made strides to addressing
the affordability gap of the digital divide. With funds due to lapse,
Congress is in a position to improve and continue this program that
could replace other programs.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/JMLCannon/status/1717561649836535844?s=20),
10/26/2025\]

**Chief Advocacy and Engagement Officer of AARP,** **Nancy A. LeaMond:**
“AARP, which advocates for the more than 100 million Americans age 50
and older, urges you to support critical funding, included in the
President’s domestic supplemental request, for the Affordable
Connectivity Program (ACP). ACP is essential to millions of households’
ability to participate in all parts of modern digital life. From remote
work, virtual education and upskilling, telehealth, and even paying
bills, being online is an integral part of our daily lives. Affordable
high-speed internet service is especially important for older Americans,
many on fixed incomes, who have too often been left behind. The ACP,
created by the bipartisan Infrastructure Investment and Jobs Act, has
helped more than 21 million households—including 9.3 million age 50 and
older—get and stay online. Unfortunately, if the funding for ACP is
allowed to run out, millions of older Americans will once again lose
access to affordable internet service. Without ACP, despite spending
billions of dollars on broadband infrastructure, there will be fewer
customers on the other end who can afford the service. AARP is strongly
committed to ensuring affordable high-speed internet service is within
reach for older Americans who rely on it for so much of their daily
lives.”
\[[Letter](https://www.aarp.org/content/dam/aarp/politics/advocacy/2023/10/affordable-connectivity-program-support.pdf),
10/26/2023\]

**EducationSuperHighway**: “21M households rely on the Affordable
Connectivity Program to get internet service and stay online. We applaud
@whitehouse $6B domestic funding request to extend the \#ACP, which is
critical to closing the \#broadband affordability gap and
\#digitaldivide.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/EdSuperHighway/status/1717312065335947697?t=z84p2j1_SrPX4gUHxzWpdQ&s=19),
10/25/2023\]

**Founder and CEO of Common Sense Media, James P. Steyer:** “Common
Sense Media applauds the Biden Administration for its continued support
of the ACP and FCC Chairwoman Rosenworcel for her work to ensure the ACP
can meet its commitments to the 21 million American households that rely
on the program. If Congress lets the funding dry up, millions of
low-income Americans would be cut off from the connectivity they need
for their family’s education, health care, job opportunities, or access
to critical online services. Our research also found that the loss of
the ACP would have a negative impact on America’s recent investments in
broadband infrastructure that are critical to ensuring every home and
business in America has affordable connectivity. Congress and the
President must work together now to keep this from happening. The
President’s request to Congress is a critical step in the right
direction, but we must continue our efforts to make the ACP and internet
affordability permanent.”
\[[Statement](https://www.commonsensemedia.org/press-releases/statement-from-common-sense-media-in-support-of-white-house-request-to-fund-critical-domestic-needs),
10/25/2023\]

**Executive Director of the Benton Institute for Broadband & Society,
Adrianne B. Furniss:** “There is no question that access to affordable,
reliable, high-speed broadband is essential to full participation in
modern life in the United States. Although the many benefits of
broadband adoption should be broadly enjoyed by all, the digital divide
disproportionately affects communities of color and lower-income and
rural areas. Affordability is a major barrier to broadband adoption.
Today, the Biden Administration again demonstrated its commitment to
getting and keeping everyone connected. Now we ask Congress to deliver
on that commitment by continuing to fund the very successful, very
popular, very bipartisan ACP. The investment we make now will strengthen
families and communities, and help ensure the success of the historic
support the federal government has made available for deploying
broadband networks.”
\[[Statement](https://www.benton.org/content/benton-institute-supports-additional-funding-keep-americans-connected-internet),
10/25/2023\]

**Senior Policy Counsel for Next Century Cities, Ryan Johnston:** “This
funding request is an essential step forward. For months municipal
officials and community-based organizations have been grappling with the
‘what ifs’ of the ACP’s potential end. Congress must work quickly to
grant this funding request to prevent the disconnection of millions of
Households.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/NextCentCit/status/1717306101090099709),
10/25/2023\]

**Executive Director of the Project to Get Older Adults onLine (Project
GOAL), Debra Berlyn:** “Great news that the White House has called on
Congress for funding to continue the Affordable Connectivity Program
(ACP) through 2024 to help connect low-income households, including many
who are older adults.”
\[[Statement](https://www.linkedin.com/feed/update/urn:li:activity:7123391321913925633/),
10/26/2023\]

**Hispanic Federation**: “We are thrilled that the @WhiteHouse has
announced a funding package that includes an additional $6 billion of
support for the \#ACP.  We thank the Biden Administration for this
important request. and will continue to speak with our elected leaders
in Congress!”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/hashtag/ACP?src=hashtag_click&f=live),
10/25/2023\]

**Hispanic Technology & Telecommunications Partnership (HTTP**): “HTTP,
the leading national Latino voice on telecommunications and technology
policy and CEO roundtable of national Latino organizations, applauds the
White House for including $6B to strengthen the Affordable Connectivity
Program in the supplemental funding request to Congress. In the
Administration’s request for “critical domestic needs,” the ACP is a
critical component in closing the digital divide and connecting Hispanic
households to high-speed broadband. The ACP has brought about many
benefits: allowing Latinos and all marginalized communities to connect
to low cost internet for their future education, workforce development,
employment, and quality healthcare Latinos specifically have benefitted
from the ACP as they are overrepresented in the digital divide. Thus
far, the ACP benefit has resulted in increased employment rates and
earnings, creating more than $2,200 in economic benefit for low-income
households. The ACP bolsters the U.S. economy by creating more
opportunities for Latino participation in the digital ecosystem. The
program has not only opened new doors for previously disconnected
Latinos, but by getting them online, the U.S. economy has flourished.
This is why HTTP wrote to Congress in July along with 15 influential and
national Latino organizations, underscoring ACP’s impact on the digital
divide. We thank the Administration for its continued commitment to
bringing internet to all and HTTP will continue to urge Congress and
work with leadership to sustain and fund the Affordable Connectivity
Program.”
\[[Statement](https://www.httppolicy.org/blog/supports-additional-funding-request-acp),
10/26/023\]

**Schools, Health & Libraries Broadband Coalition:** “The Schools,
Health & Libraries Broadband (SHLB) Coalition welcomed the White House’s
request to Congress for $6 billion in funding to extend the Affordable
Connectivity Program (ACP) through 2024 yesterday. The ACP is a vital
program that provides low-income households with discounts on their
internet bills and devices, helping them access high-speed broadband and
participate in the digital economy. The SHLB Coalition advocates for
programs like the ACP and other broadband policies that benefit anchor
institutions and the communities they serve. SHLB commends the Biden
administration for taking this step forward to preserve the ACP as a
source of affordable broadband. We also thank President Biden, Vice
President Harris, and the bipartisan group of lawmakers who collaborated
to pass the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, which created and funded the
ACP. We commend the Federal Communications Commission for swiftly and
effectively implementing the ACP, which has assisted over 21 million
households. While funding the ACP through 2024 is a critical first step
to keeping families online, SHLB also urges the White House and Congress
to recognize the need for stable, permanent, affordable internet
solutions through sustained ACP funding in the future. The SHLB
coalition will continue to work with the Administration, Congress, and
the FCC to ensure that all Americans have access to reliable,
affordable, high-speed internet, especially those living in unserved and
underserved areas. We believe that broadband connectivity is essential
for education, health care, economic development, and social inclusion.
We look forward to seeing more progress and innovation in this critical
sector.” \[Statement, 10/26/2023\]

**President and CEO of Multicultural Media, Telecom, and Internet
Council (MMTC), Robert E. Branson:** “The Biden-Harris Administration’s
$6 billion funding request will strengthen the Affordable Connectivity
Program (ACP) by extending free and discounted high-speed internet for
eligible households through December 2024. This funding will support
tens of millions of people who could lose the APC benefit and access to
affordable high-speed internet service. It will also help MMTC and the
Black Churches 4 Digital Equity Coalition encourage unconnected
households to het online…The program has helped train and organize
leaders as advocates to get their communities connected, and to advance
digital equity through the ACP. MMTC believes this funding request is a
critical step towards permanent broadband funding.”
\[[Statement](https://twitter.com/mmtconline/status/1717564334820229402),
10/26/2023\]

**Leadership Conference on Civil and Human Rights:** “Yesterday,
@WhiteHouse released a funding request to Congress for several domestic
priorities, including $6B to continue the Affordable Connectivity
Program. ACP has been critical in getting 20M+ households connected.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/civilrightsorg/status/1717568043134374073),
10/26/2023\]

**UCC Media Justice Ministry:** “Great news @POTUS is seeking funding
for \#AffordableConnectivityProgram through December 2024. 21 million
people are counting on it to \#getinternet !”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/UCCMediaJustice/status/1717354721227211252),
10/25/2023\]

**Digital First Project:** “We are encouraged to see efforts from both
sides of the aisle to reauthorize this efficient program.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/digitalfirstprj/status/1717558981973958715),
10/26/23\]

**Link Health:** “By extending and strengthening the ACP, we can ensure
that more individuals and families, regardless of their economic
situation or location, can benefit from the lifesaving potential of
telehealth. Let’s not forget that the impact of extending the ACP
reaches beyond healthcare. It also fosters economic opportunity,
education, and social inclusion. It’s time for us to come together and
advocate for the expansion of the Affordable Connectivity Program.
Together, we can bridge the digital divide, improve healthcare access,
and build a more equitable future for all.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/Link_Health_org/status/1717705070366658888),
10/26/2023\]

**Heartland Forward:** “The \#AffordableConnectivityProgram is needed to
expand access to affordable internet service & devices. Almost 8.5m
heartlanders depend on the program –– we can’t “disconnect” them when
current funding runs out. The \#ACP is not a nice-to-have, it’s a
need-to-have.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/HeartlandFwd/status/1717674612618670441),
10/26/2023\]

**LGBT Tech:** “The digital divide in America has long been a concern
for LGBTQ+ communities. With the pandemic underscoring the absolute
necessity of reliable broadband access for work, education, and
healthcare, it’s evident that ensuring connectivity for all LGBTQ+
individuals is of paramount importance. We commend President Biden’s
forward-thinking request to Congress to extend funding for the
Affordable Connectivity Program (ACP). We stand in full support of
President Biden’s appeal to Congress and believe that with consistent
funding and collaboration, the ACP can make significant strides in
ensuring digital inclusivity for LGBTQ+ Americans. Let’s champion a more
connected, informed, and equitable society.”
\[[Statement](https://www.lgbttech.org/post/statement-of-lgbt-tech-supporting-the-continued-funding-of-the-affordable-connectivity-program-acp),
10/26/2023\]

**American Consumer Institute:** “There are few government programs that
have proven to be as effective as the Affordable Connectivity Program,
which provides affordable internet to more than 21 million consumers
nationwide. With Program funds running out, we applaud the White House
for its new $6 billion funding request supporting the ACP to ensure
lower-income Americans remain online. High-speed internet has become
essential to participating in modern life, and we should not continue to
keep the future of the ACP uncertain. Considering the fact that ACP is
efficiently administered and effective, it isn’t a surprise that the
Program is widely popular among the general public, with support that
transcends political lines. According to polling, a majority of
Democrats, Republicans, and Independents all support extending the
program. At the same time, lawmakers in both political parties have
recognized the unique success of the ACP and how it helps the smallest
of small communities, big cities, and everywhere in between. With a new
Speaker of the House, Congress should waste no time in funding this
critical broadband subsidy program.”
\[[Statement](https://www.theamericanconsumer.org/2023/10/aci-applauds-efforts-to-fund-acp-and-keep-millions-of-americans-online/),
10/26/2023\]

**<u>Labor</u>**

**Communications Workers of America (CWA):** “Yesterday President Biden
submitted a request to Congress for an additional $6 billion to continue
to make affordable, high-speed internet service available to tens of
millions of households through the Affordable Connectivity Program
(ACP). CWA members have a longstanding commitment to making sure that
every household in America has reliable high-speed internet service, and
we have been strong advocates for the Affordable Connectivity Program.
We are proud of the contribution we make by building, maintaining, and
supporting our nation’s communications infrastructure, and we have seen
firsthand the impact that the digital divide has had on low income,
rural and tribal communities. Without this additional funding, millions
of families will be cut off from critical healthcare services,
educational resources, and job opportunities. Broadband infrastructure
projects could be curtailed if fewer customers are able to afford
service. We urge Congressional leaders to support this funding request
and to work with us to ensure that internet service remains affordable
for everyone.”
\[[Statement](https://cwa-union.org/news/releases/cwa-supports-additional-funding-affordable-connectivity-program-and-other-urgent),
10/26/2023\]

**<u>Internet Service Providers</u>**

**Executive Vice President of Public Policy and Executive Vice President
of Digital Equity, Comcast Corporation, Broderick D. Johnson:** “The
Biden Administration’s budget request for the Affordable Connectivity
Program (ACP) is the first step to ensure that the program continues to
connect more than 21 million households already enrolled and others
eligible for the ACP. We hope Congress will support this request in a
bipartisan manner.”
\[[Statement,](https://corporate.comcast.com/press/releases/biden-domestic-budget-request-to-congress)
10/25/2023\]

**AT&T:** “We appreciate the action the White House took today to
support continued funding for the Affordable Connectivity Program. The
program plays a critical role in connecting America, with more than 21
million households enrolled. We look forward to working with Congress
and the FCC to continue this program to keep Americans connected to
reliable broadband.”
\[[Statement](https://www.attconnects.com/att-statement-on-acp-funding/),
10/25/2023\]

**Charter Communications**: “Charter welcomes the Biden Administration’s
request for additional funding to protect high-speed internet for more
than 21 million American families that rely on the Affordable
Connectivity Program. Few things matter more than continuing this
progress and connecting the millions of Americans in need who still
aren’t online. We urge Congress to provide additional funding for
consumers participating in the program, which will empower millions of
families in rural and urban communities alike to maintain the
connectivity helping to improve their lives, in addition to making
broadband deployment programs more efficient.”
\[[Statement](https://policy.charter.com/charter-statement-on-the-biden-administrations-request-for-additional-funding-for-the-affordable-connectivity-program),
10/25/2023\]

**SVP Public Policy and Government Affairs, Verizon, Kathy Grillo:**
“The bipartisan Affordable Connectivity Program (ACP) is helping over 21
million urban, suburban, and rural low-income households access
affordable, high-speed internet service. Today’s request from the White
House for additional funding for the ACP recognizes the urgency and
importance of keeping millions of vulnerable households connected to the
internet. Verizon has been a proud ACP participant since day one, and we
encourage Congress to provide additional funding for the program as soon
as possible.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/VerizonPolicy/status/1717312036370051548),
10/25/2023\]

**Vice President of Federal Government Relations, T-Mobile, Tony
Russo:** “@TMobile proudly participates in the Affordable Connectivity
Program and additional funding will keep millions of underserved
Americans connected to the internet. We encourage Congress to take quick
action.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/twoclubchampion/status/1717570113522557234),
10/26/2023\]

**<u>Industry Associations</u>**

**President and CEO, Fiber Broadband Association, Gary Bolton:** “Access
to affordable, reliable high-speed internet is critical for Americans to
fully participate in and take advantage of social and economic
opportunities. Today the White House requested $6B in additional funding
from Congress for the bipartisan Affordable Connectivity Program.
Millions of people in communities across the country rely on this
program for internet access; we cannot risk this money running out. We
thank the Administration for their leadership on this issue and request
that Congress support this request which impacts every Congressional
District.”
\[[Statement](https://fiberbroadband.org/advocacy/fba-official-statement-regarding-additional-funding-request-for-the-bipartisan-accordable-connectivity-program/),
10/25/23\]

**NCTA – The Internet and Television Association:** “As the nation
continues the important mission of connecting every citizen to reliable
high-speed internet service, the Affordable Connectivity Program has
been one of the most successful voluntary initiatives ever, helping over
21 million households so far. The cable industry is proud to support
these efforts and welcomes the Administration’s request for additional
funding that will extend this worthy program, help get all Americans
connected to the internet, and encourage further broadband expansion.”
\[[Statement](https://www.ncta.com/media/media-room/statement-of-ncta-the-internet-television-association-regarding-the-white-house-request-for-more-affordable-connectivity-program-funding),
10/25/2023\]

**INCOMPAS:** “Great to see the White House include more money for the
Affordable Connectivity Program in their supplemental request. More than
21 million households are connected under ACP, Congress must act to fund
this critical program. \#ACP”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/INCOMPAS/status/1717285893323555035?s=20),
10/25/2023\]

**CTIA:** “We thank the White House for supporting more funding for the
Affordable Connectivity Program. More than 20 million American
households rely on this program today, with more than half using it to
subscribe to wireless broadband – underscoring the unique role that
wireless plays in ensuring low-income Americans can access the internet
for work, school, telehealth, and more. We look forward to working with
Congress to fund this important program to keep Americans connected.”

**Information and Technology Industry Council (ITI):** “Thank you
@WhiteHouse for including critical funding for \#broadband adoption and
securing American communications networks in @POTUS domestic funding
request. Fully funding the \#AmericanConnectivityProgram and
\#RipandReplace is vital for continued American competitiveness.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/ITI_TechTweets/status/1717565419546931396),
10/26/2023\]

**President and CEO, USTelecom, Jonathan Spalter:** “The Affordable
Connectivity Program is a critical part of reaching our shared goal of
universal connectivity. We applaud the Administration’s request for
additional funding for the ACP. The program has already enabled more
than 21 million low-income households to participate in our digital
economy. We urge Congress to find a long-term solution to sustain this
vital program.”
\[[Tweet](https://x.com/fiberbroadband/status/1717319908537569444?s=20),
10/25/2023\]

**NTCA—The Rural Broadband Association:** “NTCA members have been active
participants in the Affordable Connectivity Program, and a number of
their customers rely upon the support this program provides to pay for
broadband services month after month. The ACP program is also poised to
play a critical part in addressing affordability as part of deployment
programs just now getting underway. NTCA therefore applauds the White
House for identifying the need for additional funding to prolong the
effectiveness of the ACP program in its supplemental appropriations
request, and we hope that this program that enjoys such widespread
support will continue to play an important role in keeping Americans
connected.”
\[[Statement](https://www.ntca.org/ruraliscool/newsroom/press-releases/2023/25/ntca-applauds-biden-acp-supplemental-request),
10/25/2023\]

**Senior Vice President of Government & Industry Affairs, WTA, Derrick
Owens**: “ACP is an important program that helps keep Americans
connected to the Internet. Ensuring every American can afford broadband
is vital for communication, business, education, health care, and more.
We encourage Congress to act so that the program does not run out of
funding and look forward to working with policymakers to put the program
on a stable footing long-term.”
\[[Statement](https://w-t-a.org/wta-applauds-white-house-supplemental-request-for-affordable-connectivity-program/),
10/25/2023\]

**Wireless Infrastructure Association:** “Access to broadband is
critical for Americans to live and participate in the modern economy.
WIA is pleased to see that the Administration has requested additional
funds to extend the Affordable Connectivity Program.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/WIAorg/status/1717346752318087532?s=20),
10/25/2023\]

**Chair of the National Lifeline Association, David B. Dorwart:** “NaLA
commends the White House for recognizing the importance of the
Affordable Connectivity Program (ACP) and for asking Congress for
emergency funding to avert the program’s looming funding cliff. This
funding and additional tranches of emergency funding will be needed as
work continues to establish permanent funding for the ACP. Without such
support, more than 21 million households would face the grim prospect of
losing access to affordable mobile and fixed broadband solutions
essential to full participation in our society and economy.”
\[[Statement](https://www.nalalifeline.org/member-news/nala-applauds-white-house-call-for-acp-funding/),
10/25/2023\]  
  

*\###*
