---
date: '2023-10-30'
published_time: 2023-10-30 17:05:39-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/10/30/g7-leaders-statement-on-the-hiroshima-ai-process/
tags: statements-releases
title: "G7 Leaders\u2019 Statement on the Hiroshima AI\_Process"
---
 
We, the Leaders of the Group of Seven (G7), stress the innovative
opportunities and transformative potential of advanced Artificial
Intelligence (AI) systems, in particular, foundation models and
generative AI. We also recognize the need to manage risks and to protect
individuals, society, and our shared principles including the rule of
law and democratic values, keeping humankind at the center. We affirm
that meeting those challenges requires shaping an inclusive governance
for artificial intelligence. Building on the progress made by relevant
ministers on the Hiroshima AI Process, including the G7 Digital & Tech
Ministers’ Statement issued on September 7, 2023, we welcome the
Hiroshima Process International Guiding Principles for Organizations
Developing Advanced AI Systems and the Hiroshima Process International
Code of Conduct for Organizations Developing Advanced AI Systems
(Attached).  In order to ensure both documents remain fit for purpose
and responsive to this rapidly evolving technology, they will be
reviewed and updated as necessary, including through ongoing inclusive
multistakeholder consultations. We call on organizations developing
advanced AI systems to commit to the application of the International
Code of Conduct.

We instruct relevant ministers to accelerate the process toward
developing the Hiroshima AI Process Comprehensive Policy Framework,
which includes project based cooperation, by the end of this year, in
cooperation with the Global Partnership for Artificial Intelligence
(GPAI) and the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development
(OECD), and to conduct multi-stakeholder outreach and consultation,
including with governments, academia, civil society, and the private
sector, not only those in the G7 but also in the economies beyond,
including developing and emerging economies. We also ask relevant
ministers to develop a work plan by the end of the year for further
advancing the Hiroshima AI Process.

We believe that our joint efforts through the Hiroshima AI Process will
foster an open and enabling environment where safe, secure, and
trustworthy AI systems are designed, developed, deployed, and used to
maximize the benefits of the technology while mitigating its risks, for
the common good worldwide, including in developing and emerging
economies with a view to closing digital divides and achieving digital
inclusion. We also look forward to the UK’s AI Safety Summit on November
1 and 2.

\###
