---
date: '2023-10-30'
modified_time: 2023-10-30 12:41:04-04:00
published_time: 2023-10-30 16:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/10/30/the-president-and-first-lady-welcome-trick-or-treaters-to-the-white-house-for-hallo-read/
tags: statements-releases
title: "The President and First Lady Welcome Trick-or-Treaters to the White\_House\
  \ for \u201CHallo-READ!\u201D"
---
 
***The First Lady’s theme, “Hallo-READ!,” highlights famous literary
tales and characters, ghost stories, and the spooktacular thrill of
reading  ***

On Monday, October 30th, the President and First Lady are hosting a
Halloween event that will welcome local public school students and
military-connected children to the White House for trick-or-treating.  A
teacher for more than three decades, including years spent as a reading
specialist, First Lady Jill Biden created this year’s theme,
“Hallo-READ!,” with the White House’s festive décor featuring famous
literary characters, ghoulish tales, and ghost story time. Dr. Biden’s
theme encourages families and children to grab a flashlight, pick out
their favorite Halloween book, and relish in the spooktacular thrill of
reading together. 

Children will trick-or-treat along the South Lawn of the White House up
to the South Portico to receive both candy and books from the President
and First Lady, as well as other White House friends and neighbors,
including representatives from: the Department of Education, Department
of Transportation, Department of State, Department of Agriculture,
Department of the Treasury, Department of Veterans Affairs, Department
of Energy, Department of Housing and Urban Development, FEMA, NASA,
National Science Foundation, National Endowment for the Humanities,
Environmental Protection Agency, Office of the U.S. Trade
Representative, United States Secret Service, White House staff, and the
White House Military Office.  Children will also get to participate in
spooky story time with special guests reading their favorite books of
the season. 

Approximately 8,000 guests will participate in this year’s Halloween
event at the White House, with each family receiving chocolate and candy
treats provided by the National Confectioners Association and its member
companies. In a nod to this year’s “Hallo-READ!” theme, each family will
also receive donated books from Scholastic to read and enjoy. Instacart
is providing overall support for the Halloween celebration, in addition
to supplying Halloween tote bags and treats to each child. In the spirit
of hands-on learning, the company will also distribute recipe cards to
teach children and their families how to make deliciously spooky, easy
Halloween-themed treats together. Costumed characters will stroll the
South Lawn for the Halloween festivities, including Clifford the Big Red
Dog, Greg Heffley from Diary of a Wimpy Kid, as well as Disney friends
Doc McStuffins, Vampirina, and Darth Vader and the Stormtroopers.

The White House will be decorated with autumnal foliage, stacks of
books, and multi-dimensional displays of ghoulish literary characters
and tales.  A spooky story time corner will also be a part of the
Halloween festivities this year, featuring author Brad Meltzer and
illustrator Chris Eliopoulos, author Jeff Kinney, Librarian of Congress
Dr. Carla Hayden, Secretary of Education Miguel Cardona, White House
Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre, and other special guests.    

\###
