---
date: '2024-02-16'
published_time: 2024-02-16 10:50:11-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/02/16/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-at-the-munich-security-conference-munich-germany/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris at the Munich Security Conference | Munich,\_\
  Germany"
---
 
Hotel Bayerischer Hof  
Munich, Germany

2:38 P.M. CEST

VICE PRESIDENT HARRIS:  Good afternoon.  Good afternoon.  (Applause.) 
Thank you, thank you.  
  
Thank you, Christoph.  Thank you.  Thank you for your leadership.  
  
Before I begin today, we’ve all just received reports that Aleksey
Navalny has died in Russia.  This is, of course, terrible news, which we
are working to confirm.   
  
My prayers are with his family, including his wife, Yulia, who is with
us today.   
  
And if confirmed, this would be a further sign of Putin’s brutality. 
Whatever story they tell, let us be clear: Russia is responsible.   
  
And we will have more to say on this later.  
  
As Christoph said, this is my third time here, and I’m honored to be
with so many friends.

This year, we gather amid an increased instability and conflict in the
Middle East.  We gather amid Russia’s ongoing aggression in Ukraine,
China’s efforts to reshape the international order, transformative
technological change, and, of course, the existential threat of the
climate crisis.

In this context, I know that there are questions here in Europe and
around the world about the future of America’s role of global
leadership.   
  
These are questions the American people must also ask ourselves: Whether
it is in America’s interest to continue to engage with the world or to
turn inward.  Whether it is in our interest to defend longstanding rules
and norms that have provided for unprecedented peace and prosperity or
to allow them to be trampled.  Whether it is in America’s interest to
fight for democracy or to accept the rise of dictators.  And whether it
is in America’s interest to continue to work in lockstep with our allies
and partners or go it alone.

Today, I will explain how President Biden and I answer these questions,
with full knowledge that how America responds will affect the American
people, the people of Europe, and people around the world.

I believe it is in the fundamental interest of the American people for
the United States to fulfill our longstanding role of global leadership.

As President Biden and I have made clear over the past three years, we
are committed to pursue global engagement, to uphold international rules
and norms, to defend democratic values at home and abroad, and to work
with our allies and partners in pursuit of shared goals.

As I travel throughout my country and the world, it is clear to me: This
approach makes America strong, and it keeps Americans safe.

However, there are some in the United States who disagree.  They suggest
it is in the best interest of the American people to isolate ourselves
from the world, to flout common understandings among nations, to embrace
dictators and adopt their repressive tactics, and abandon commitments to
our allies in favor of unilateral action.

Let me be clear: That worldview is dangerous, destabilizing, and indeed
short-sighted.  That view would weaken America and would undermine
global stability and undermine global prosperity.

President Biden and I, therefore, reject that view.

And please do understand, our approach is not based on the virtues of
charity.  We pursue our approach because it is in our strategic
interest.   
  
I strongly believe America’s role of global leadership is to the direct
benefit of the American people.  Our leadership keeps our homeland safe,
supports American jobs, secures supply chains, and opens new markets for
American goods.

And I firmly believe our commitment to build and sustain alliances has
helped America become the most powerful and prosperous country in the
world — alliances that have prevented wars, defended freedom, and
maintained stability from Europe to the Indo-Pacific.  To put all of
that at risk would be foolish.

President Biden and I have demonstrated there is a smarter way. 

When it comes to America’s national security, our approach starts with
our historic, direct investment in the working people of America, an
investment which has helped build a resilient and innovative economy.

We are clear: We cannot be strong abroad if we are not strong at home.

We have made a once-in-a-generation investment to rebuild our roads and
bridges and ports and highways with more than 40,000 infrastructure
projects across all of our 50 states.  We’re bringing semiconductor
manufacturing back to America, which will secure our supply chains and
enable the future of technology.  And we have invested $1 trillion to
address the climate crisis and build a new clean energy economy, reduce
emissions, and meet our global climate commitments.

Our economic vision has ensured America’s economy remains the strongest
in the world, with historic job creation, historic creation of small
businesses, and broad-based economic growth.   
  
And over the past three years, backed by this strong track record at
home, we have implemented our National Security Strategy.

In the Indo-Pacific, we have invested heavily in our alliances and
partnerships and created new ones to ensure peace and security and, of
course, the free flow of commerce.

We have responsibly managed competition with China, standing up to
Beijing when necessary and also working together when it serves our
interest.

In the Middle East, we are working to end the conflict that Hamas
triggered on October 7th as soon as possible and ensure it ends in a way
where Israel is secure, hostages are released, the humanitarian crisis
is resolved, Hamas does not control Gaza, and Palestinians can enjoy
their right to security, dignity, freedom, and self-determination. 
(Applause.)   
  
This work — while we also work to counter aggression from Iran and its
proxies, prevent regional escalation, and promote regional integration.

In addition, we have strengthened our partnerships on the continent of
Africa, understanding that the innovation happening on the continent
will shape the future of our world.  We have also worked with partners
in the Caribbean and throughout Latin America to increase private sector
investment, address the climate crisis, and address the root causes of
migration.

And the Biden-Harris administration has led the world to respond to the
climate crisis and ensure AI is developed in service of the public
interest.   
  
We have also worked to advance and uphold rules and norms for outer
space and to empower women around the globe.

And here in Europe, we have joined forces with our friends and allies to
stand up for freedom and democracy.

Christoph, I reflect on two years ago, when I first stood on this stage
on the eve of Russia’s invasion of Ukraine.  Many of — of us will recall
that time when many thought Kyiv would fall within days.   
  
Yet, the skill and the bravery of the people of Ukraine, along with the
leadership of President Zelenskyy and the 50-nation coalition the United
States has led, has allowed Ukraine to achieve what so many thought was
impossible.

Today, Kyiv stands free and strong.  (Applause.)

The world has come together, with leadership from the United States, to
defend the basic principles of sovereignty and territorial integrity and
to stop an imperialist authoritarian from subjugating a free and
democratic people.

Make no mistake, Putin’s war has already been an utter failure for
Russia.

Ukraine has regained more than half the territory Russia occupied at the
start of the conflict thanks, in part, to a massive supply of American
and European weapons.

The Russian military has suffered severe setbacks.  It has lost two
thirds of its tanks and more than a third of its fleet in the Black Sea.

Because of Putin’s aggression and recklessness, Russia has also suffered
over 300,000 casualties.  Remember, that’s more than five times what it
lost in 10 years in Afghanistan.  And now it forces conscripts onto the
frontlines with as little as two weeks of training.

We have also imposed economic costs on Russia for its aggression.  And
together with our G7 partners, we have frozen Russia’s sovereign assets
and made clear Russia must pay for the damages it has caused to Ukraine.

I applaud the recent $54 billion commitment the EU made to support
Ukraine on top of the more than $100 billion our European allies and
partners have already dedicated.

You have made clear that Europe will stand with Ukraine, and I will make
clear President Joe Biden and I stand with Ukraine.  (Applause.)

In partnership with supportive, bipartisan majorities in both houses of
the United States Congress, we will work to secure critical weapons and
resources that Ukraine so badly needs.  And let me be clear: The failure
to do so would be a gift to Vladimir Putin.

More broadly, NATO is central to our approach to global security.  For
President Biden and me, our sacred commitment to NATO remains ironclad. 
And I do believe, as I have said before, NATO is the greatest military
alliance the world has ever known.  
  
NATO was founded on a very simple premise: An attack on one is an attack
on all.  And when it comes to conflict between nations, NATO has
deterred aggression against its members to the benefit of the security
of the American people.

For the past 75 years, NATO members have maintained this solemn pact,
including on 9/11 when terrorists attacked America and for the first and
only time, NATO invoked Article 5, the collective defense clause.  And
NATO stood by America’s side.

Nevertheless, recall, before the President and I took office, some
questioned the usefulness of NATO, suggested it was, quote, “obsolete.”

Some in my country also questioned the value of our commitment to NATO’s
collective defense and called for the withdrawal of U.S. troops from
Germany.

Now, thanks to the leadership of the United States, NATO is stronger,
larger, more unified, and more effective than ever before.

We have reinforced NATO’s eastern flank with more weapons and forces,
including air defense and fighter coverage, a sustained presence of army
brigades, and a permanent U.S Army headquarters in Poland.

And, of course, Europeans are also stepping up.  Since President Biden
and I took office, the number of NATO members that have met the goal of
spending 2 percent of GDP has doubled.  NATO has also added one new
member, and we’re on track to add another.  And we look forward to
welcoming both Finland and Sweden to Washington for NATO’s 75th
anniversary summit this summer.  (Applause.)

Around the world, we have made great progress.  But ultimately, I do
believe none of the gains we have made will be permanent unless we are
vigilant.  And let us remember, none of these gains were inevitable.

I ask you: Imagine if America turned our back on Ukraine and abandoned
our NATO Allies and abandoned our treaty commitments.  Imagine if we
went easy on Putin, let alone encouraged him.

History offers a clue.  If we stand by while an aggressor invades its
neighbor with impunity, they will keep going.  And in the case of Putin,
that means all of Europe would be threatened. 

If we fail to impose severe consequences on Russia, other authoritarians
across the globe would be emboldened, because you see, they will be
watching — they are watching and drawing lessons.

History has also shown us: If we only look inward, we cannot defeat
threats from outside.  Isolation is not insulation.

In fact, when America has isolated herself, threats have only grown.

I need not remind the people of Europe of a dark history when the forces
of tyranny and fascism were on the march, and then America joined our
allies in defense of freedom and to safeguard our collective security.

So, I’ll close with this.  In these unsettled times, it is clear:
America cannot retreat.  America must stand strong for democracy.  We
must stand in defense of international rules and norms, and we must
stand with our allies.

That is what represents the ideals of America, and the American people
know that is what make us strong.  
  
And make no mistake, the American people will meet this moment, and
America will continue to lead.

I thank you very much.  (Applause.)  
  
AMBASSADOR HEUSGEN:  Th- — thank you.  Thank you very much, Madam Vice
President, for these strong words, for this strong commitment to
NATO.   
  
And tonight, we will honor, again, one of the strongest Republicans who
has been here with the Munich Security Conference for many, many years,
John McCain.  I think, if he were to listen — his wife is here — would
be very grateful for your bipartisan words.   
  
We are running late.  So, I have to — afraid I cannot go into a long
discussion.  But I want to pick up on the one issue, besides Ukraine,
which you have covered very long — on the Israel-Palestine issue.   
  
From your perspective — you touched briefly on that — what is the
long-term vision for the Israelis and Palestine — Palestinians?  And how
will they live with each other?  Will it be possible, what we mentioned
earlier — also with respect to Rwanda, where there was a genocide — is
this possible to come instead of revenge to reconciliation?  How do we
get from here to there?  How do we get to where — what you said about
two-state solution, living by — side by side?  Is it actually
achievable?  
  
VICE PRESIDENT HARRIS:  The short answer is yes, I do believe it is. 
But we must then put the discussion in context, starting with October
7.   
  
On October 7th, Hamas committed a terrorist act that was about
slaughtering over 1,200 Israelis, innocent people, many of them young
people who were attending a concert.  Women were horribly tortured and
raped — rape being used as a tool of war.   
  
And it is important that we remember what that was and, I will say,
understand that Israel then had a right to defend itself.  We would.  We
would.  And — (applause) — and how it does so matters.   
  
We have also been clear that far too many innocent Palestinians have
been killed, that Israel must do better to protect innocent
civilians.   
  
We have seen what has been happening in terms of the images that we see
on a daily basis of the human suffering and the need for humanitarian
aid.  And the President and our administration and I have been very
adamant about getting that humanitarian aid in.   
  
We look at the circumstances of what’s happening: There are tunnels
under hospitals and — and what that means in terms of this conflict and
— and how it is implemented.   
  
But ultimately, Christoph, to your point, to get to the day after,
hostages need to be released.  We must understand the importance of the
principles that should be applied to the day after, including no
reoccupation of Gaza, no change of its geographic territory, no return
of — of terrorism by Hamas. 

And ultimately, apply certain principles to how the day after will look,
including the importance of security for Gaza and the region, both
interim and permanent; what must be done in terms of governance for
Gaza; and then rebuilding Gaza.  
  
We’ve been very clear that we believe that the PA should be the
authority on that, with so- — reform — but that that should take place. 
There cannot be, in my opinion, peace and security for that region — for
the people of Israel or the Palestinians and the people of Gaza —
without a two-state solution.  And we cannot give up on that. 
(Applause.)    
  
But how we get there is going to matter.  And most recently, just this
week, actually, I was with the King of Jordan in — in my West Wing
office in Washington.  Previously, at the end of last year, I was with a
number of Arab leaders in Dubai.  And the work that will happen among
nations to help with these ultimate goals will be critically important —
critically important.   
  
AMBASSADOR HEUSGEN:  Thank you.  Thank you very much.  Last question.   
  
After Munich last year, you remember, we discussed about the Global
South and how important it is.  You actually traveled to Ghana, to — and
we just had the president here, too — Tanzania and Zambia.  What was
your impression?  There seems to be a growing transactional mindset. 
How do we react to this?  How can we — the U.S. and Europe — win them
over?  
  
VICE PRESIDENT HARRIS:  Well, I’m going to challenge the premise of your
question.  That for — on behalf of the United States, I will tell you
that I believe that we must think differently about the relationship
between the United States and the continent of Africa.  And I’m frankly
very excited about what is happening on the continent and my trip being
further reinforcement of that point.  
  
We look at the — the future of the continent and how it will affect the
future of the world: It is indisputable, there will be a direct
impact.   
  
The median age on the continent of Africa is 19.  By 2050, it is
estimated that one in four people occupying place on Mother Earth will
be on the continent of Africa.   
  
So, when we think of it in terms of the future, we must see the
innovation that is currently happening there and partner with African
leaders and nations and change the way we are thinking in a way that it
is not about aid, but about partnership; not what we do for the
continent, but what we do with the continent and its leaders.   
  
When I was there, I was in — at Ghana, for example, meeting with a
number of business leaders — leaders in the clean energy economy. 
Afrobeats and what culture of Africa is doing to impact the world in
terms of how it thinks about the arts is profound.  So, the future has
to be about partnership and investment.   
  
To your point about tran- — the transactional issue, certainly, when I
was there, the press asked me almost every day: Are you here because of
China?  And my answer was, “No, we are here because of the Afri- — the
people on the Af- — continent of Africa and what the partnership will
mean.”   
  
And let’s not forget ever the interconnected history between the United
States and Africa and what that means in terms of how we should think
about the relationship and how we should think about our commitment to
the African nations.   
  
AMBASSADOR HEUSGEN:  Thank you.  Thank you very much for this.   
  
We have to move on to our next session.  But we have a change in
program, and I would like you to stay seated for our next speaker, who
will be a bit of a surprise.   
  
So, thank you very much, Vice President.  (Applause.)  
  
                              END                 3:06 P.M. CEST
