---
date: '2024-02-28'
published_time: 2024-02-28 16:07:20-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/02/28/remarks-by-president-biden-on-his-actions-to-fight-crime-and-make-our-communities-safer/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden on his Actions to Fight Crime and Make our Communities\_\
  Safer"
---
 
State Dining Room

1:59 P.M. EST  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Chief White, thank you for that introduction.   
  
And, you know, every day, you and your fellow officers put on that
shield, walk out the door, and your families worry about receiving that
phone call.  But thank you for your service and, I mean this sincerely,
your sacrifice and the sacrifice of that of your family.  It’s not just
you — your families as well.   
  
And thanks to the law enforcement and community leaders here today who
have helped bring down violent crime rates in their cities to historic
lows.   
  
That’s right.  We’re — we’re about to talk about what’s going to happen
now.  You know, you just heard from the chief, and they salute these
cities who are making historic progress here.   
  
Last year, the United States had one of the lowest rates of all violent
crime — of all violent crimes in more than 50 years.  Murder, rape —
murder, rape, aggravated assault, robbery all dropped sharply, along
with burglary, property crime, and theft.  And it matters.  
  
As President, public safety — public safety and crime reduction is a top
priority for my administration and for me.  And it has been for a long
time, back when I was chairman of the Judiciary Committee.    
  
You know, since day one, my administration has been working with law
enforcement, mayors, and community leaders to do what we know works to
keep people and communities safe.   
  
As was referenced, during the pandemic, states and cities saw violent
crime rising, and their budgets were strained as they faced deep cuts in
law enforcement and public safety.  But we stepped up.  
  
Thanks to my American Rescue Plan, which I might note not a single
person on the other team voted for, we provided $350 billion — $350
billion that was available to deal with these issues.  You know, and the
fact is that we find ourselves — they could use it to — this money to
keep law enforcement on the beat and communities safe from violence.   
  
We invested $15 billion — $15 billion to make their communities safer,
and we added billions more in grants to help.  The Justice Department
invested in law enforcement and community violence interruption
programs.  
  
Because of the American Rescue Plan, we have the largest federal
investment of fighting crime and preventing violent crime in any time in
our history.  And that’s a big deal.  
  
You know, we’re — we know being in law enforcement is harder than ever. 
But — and we expect you to be everything to everybody.  That’s why we’ve
invested in more crisis responders who work alongside police officers —
as Chief said, mental health and social workers — to respond to
non-violent crimes as well.   
  
More investments in recruiting, retaining, and training officers.  More
investments in violence prevention to get guns off the streets.   
  
And on top of that, we’re hiring more U.S. attorneys, recruiting more
U.S. marshals, and investing in more technology and training to clear
the court backlogs, solve murders, and deal with apprehending violent
fugitives.   
  
And we’re also working hard to ensure bonds of trust between officers
and the people you all serve.  My budget calls for more officers on the
street trained in community policing, walking the beat, working hard
hand in hand with community leaders and partners and public — to gain
public trust and advance public safety.  
  
The chiefs in this room know that when their communities trust the
police, we can solve a hell of a lot more crimes a hell of a lot
faster.   
  
That’s why I signed the historic executive order to advance
<s>executive</s> \[effective\] and accountable community policing, and
it’s very effective so far.  You know, and I’m going to continue to call
on Congress to pass the George Floyd Policing and Justice — the Justice
in Policing Act so we can make police reform the law of the land.  
  
We’ve also made historic investments in proven strategies to interrupt
and prevent crime and violence in the first place.  These programs use
trusted messengers, including people — people who are in the
neighborhood, people who have — have been incarcerated and are released
now, people who have been through it, people who know what they’re
talking about.   
  
And we have a track record of reducing violent crime, as a consequence
of that, by 30 to 60 percent where those programs exist.  
  
And finally, my plan goes after the scourge of gun violence in America. 
I’ve taken more executive actions to stop the flow of illegal guns than
any other administration in history.  And we beat the NRA when I signed
the most significant gun safety law in nearly 30 years.   
  
And we’re going to finish the job.  We’re going to ban assault weapons
and high-capacity magazines next time around because it has to be
done.   
  
I formed the — the first-ever White House Gun Violence — White House
Office of Gun Violence Prevention, and I thank Vice President Harris for
overseeing this important effort.   
  
Let me close with this.  Our plan is working, but we still have much
more to do, as everyone at this table knows.  And that’s why we’re here
today.   
  
My administration is going to choose progress over politics, and
communities across the country are safer as a result of that policy. 
There is no greater responsibility than to ensure the safety of
families, children, communities, and our nation.   
  
And with that, I want to turn this over to Neera Tanden, my Domestic
Policy Advisor, and we’ll get this discussion going.  Okay?  Thank you. 
(Applause.)  
  
(Cross-talk.)   
  
MS. TANDEN:  Thank you.  I would like to invite the press to exit before
we start our discussion.  
  
(Cross-talk.)  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Louder.  Louder.  Can’t hear you.  
  
MS. TANDEN:  I would like — (laughs).  
  
(Cross-talk.)  
  
Q    Mr. President, how did — how did your physical go today?  Are you
okay?  Everything good?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  All right.  Everything is squared away.  
  
Q    Anything concerning that Americans should know about, about your
health?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Well, they think I look too young.  (Laughter.)   
  
Q    They think you look too young?  How —  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you.   
  
No, there is nothing different than last year.  
  
Q    Everything is great?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Everything is great.  
  
(Cross-talk.)  
  
Q    What about on McConnell stepping down?   
  
Q    On McConnell stepping down?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  I’m sorry to see McConnell step down.  He and I — I
trusted him.  We’ve had a great relationship.  We fight like hell, but
he never, never, never misrepresents anything.  I’m sorry to hear of him
stepping down.  
  
Thank you.  
  
2:06 P.M. EST
