---
date: '2024-02-09'
modified_time: 2024-02-09 17:58:15-05:00
published_time: 2024-02-09 17:58:13-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/02/09/remarks-by-president-biden-and-chancellor-olaf-scholz-of-germany-before-bilateral-meeting/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden and Chancellor Olaf Scholz of Germany Before Bilateral\_\
  Meeting"
---
 
Oval Office

3:12 P.M. EST

PRESIDENT BIDEN: Well, welcome back, Olaf. Thank you very much for
making the effort to be here.

And, you know, it was about two years ago you and I met here, and you
said the United States and Germany have to act together and — and do
what’s necessary together. And we’ve been doing that. We got to continue
to do it.

And, you know, Congress — we have to pass a national security spending
package now. Our House members are being somewhat reluctant — and
hopefully, it’s more politics than real, but — including funding for
Ukraine and to help them continue to be able to defend themselves
against the brutal aggression of Russia.

But I want to thank you, Olaf, for your leadership from the very
beginning. And you’ve done something no one thought could get done:
You’ve doubled Germany’s military aid to Ukraine this year. And it’s
really important. We got to step up and do our part now.

Today, we’ll also discuss the work to — just that we’re going to be
doing together to strengthen NATO ahead of the 75th NATO Summit this
summer here. So, you got to come back.

And also, the latest developments in the Middle East, including hostage
release — we have negotiations going on; increase in lifesaving
humanitarian assistance to ci- — to civilians in Gaza — in the Gaza
Strip; and preserve the space for an enduring peace for a two-state
solution down the road. I think it’s possible. It’s going to take a lot
of work, but I think we can do it.

So, Olaf, thank you very, very much for being here. We got a lot to talk
about.

And the floor is yours, man.

CHANCELLOR SCHOLZ: Yeah, thank you for having me and for having the
chance to continue our conv- — conversations we have continuously all
the time.

And, yes, Germany and the United States have to play a role to keep
peace in the world. This is especially so looking at the Russian
aggression against Ukraine, which is still ongoing. And when we saw this
ridiculous interview Putin gave shortly, we understand that he is always
telling a lot of lies about the history of this war, because it’s so
easy to understand why he’s doing it. He wants to get the part of the
territory of its neighbors. Just imperialist — imperialism. And I think
it is necessary that we do all our best to support Ukraine and to give
them the chance to defend their country.

And so, I’m very happy that in Europe we made, now, decisions to give
the necessary financial support to the budget, also that Germany was
ready to increase its support with weapon delivery.

And hopefully, the —

PRESIDENT BIDEN: (Holds up crossed fingers.)

CHANCELLOR SCHOLZ: — Congress will — the House will follow you and make
a decision on giving the necessary support, because without the support
of United States and without the support of the European states, Ukraine
will have not a chance to defend its own country.

I really think that it’s very good that we are working together looking
at the situation in the Middle East and especially working on the
two-state solution, which is necessary for a lasting peace. And I’m sure
that the United States and Germany are aligned intensely.

PRESIDENT BIDEN: We are. We are.

But I — especially want to — I’d like to add another point: The failure
of the United States Congress, if it occurs, not to support Ukraine is
close to criminal neglect. It is outrageous.

Kissinger was right when he said: Not since Napoleon has Europe not
looked over its shoulder and worried about Russia — until now.

You and I helped put NATO together in a way it hadn’t been a long time.
So much is at stake, so they better step up.

Thank you all very much.

(Cross-talk.)

Thank you. Thank you.

3:16 P.M. EST
