---
date: '2024-02-22'
modified_time: 2024-02-23 12:31:14-05:00
published_time: 2024-02-22 23:00:00-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/02/22/remarks-by-president-biden-at-a-campaign-reception-los-altos-hills-ca/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden at a Campaign Reception | Los Altos Hills,\_CA"
---
 
Private Residence  
Los Altos Hills, California

2:34 P.M. PST  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Hello, hello, hello.  (Applause.)   
  
Thank you.  Thank you.  (Applause.)  
  
Thank you, thank you, thank you.  I think I should go home now. 
(Laughter.)   
  
Well, first of all, Bob and Danielle, thank you for hosting us today. 
It matters a lot to me, and I want to especially thank you for your
philanthropy advancing medical research, including for cancer.   
  
You know, the same goes for so many of you around this country,
including our great Vice President, Kamala Harris.  She’s an incredible
partner, and I’m not sure what I’d be able to do without her.   
  
You know, we’ve made clear from day one of our administration that we
believe in science, which the other guy is not quite sure exists. 
(Laughter.)  But, you know, think of if he had moved on the pandemic
earlier, how many people — how many chairs would not be empty at kitchen
tables these days.    
  
It got us through the pandemic and, on behalf of everyone else, a belief
that we can do just about anything we set our minds to.   
  
You know, I truly believe we can end cancer as we know it.  I’ve
believed that for a long time.  (Applause.)  No —  
  
I had the opportunity when I was vice president and subsequent to that
to visit every major cancer research facility in the world — in the
world.  And there’s so much — so much going on and so much more we can
do if we fund it and provide the effort to make — make it a priority.  
  
Some of you may remember, I got in a little bit of trouble when I was
asked — no one ever doubts in me when I say I sometimes say all that I
mean, though.  (Laughter.)  But when I — I said — they asked me when I
first got elected, if I can do any one thing, what would I do.  I said
I’d end cancer.  And they looked at me like there are other things —
ending nuclear war, a whole range of other things that would be
consequential.  
  
And I said for two reasons: First of all, America used to believe we
could do anything — anything we set our mind to.  And that fa- — that —
that image began to fade; people began to wonder what we can do.  We
started to downplay America’s capacity.   
  
And I said if we — if we we’re able to take one thing and end cancer,
it’d communicate to all of America that there is nothing beyond our
capacity when we work together.  I believe that.   
  
That’s why, when I was vice president, I asked Barack to let me start a
Cancer Moonshot.  Because, you know, as President, I reinvigorated that,
what we call ARPA-H.  I got that from, you know, a way to fundamentally
change the way we approach cancer.   
  
And, you know, one of the things is that it’s a — a cure for cancer
isn’t going to come based on a timetable.  One day, a scientist — one of
you is going to walk into the lab and you’re going to find it.  I said
it doesn’t happen, like, on a schedule.  But it happens with constant,
unrelenting work.  
  
And, you know, I designed this ARPA-H with billions of dollars at the
Department of Health after my work in the area of for- — of foreign and
defense policy.  There’s an outfit at the Department of Defense called
DARPA.  And DARPA is the ones that came up with — transformed our nation
by creating the early GPS warning systems so far — that we’ve
invested.   
  
And I said if you had one thing that just focuses on what the most
essential need at the moment is within the Defense Department, you’d get
enormous results.  And — and it just gets funded almost separately.  But
it’s a focus.  
  
And I wanted the same thing to happen at NIH.  And that’s why I came up
with ARPA-H.  Now, we’ve only gotten $3 billion there so far, but it’s
$3 billion that wasn’t there before.  And it matters.  
  
Look, folks, you know, we’ve come through one of the toughest periods in
modern American history.  And I’d like to talk about the future and how
we finish the job we started.   
  
You know, “finishing the job” means beating Big Pharma again.  When I
was a senator for 270 years — (laughter) — you know, I was at an event
yesterday, and they said, “And I want to read from Ari-” — someone said,
“I want to read from Aristotle.  Now, here’s Joe.”  And I said, “I knew
him well.”  (Laughter and applause.)  “I knew him well.”  
  
But all kidding aside, you know, from when I was a senator all those
years, we tried to take on Big Pharma.  You all know this.  You’re an
incredibly sophisticated audience.  If I put you on Air Force One with
me, and you have a prescription — no matter what it’s for, minor or
major — and I flew you to Toronto or flew to London or flew you to
Brazil or flew you anywhere in the world, I can get you that
prescription filled for somewhere between 40 to 60 percent less than it
costs here.  
  
I think everybody should make a — be able to make a buck for what they
do.  But it’s ridiculous what’s going on.   
  
And so, we wanted to make sure we changed the law.  We finally got it
changed as president.  (Applause.)   
  
So — and it was a simple proposition.  You know, we had a circumstance
where if you want to — want to supply veterans the — in the Department
of Veteran Affairs and the hospitals, they’re able to negotiate the
prices they’re going to pay.  Well, guess what?  Why in the hell can’t
Medi- — the — why can’t that be done now, in terms of dealing with what
we’re talking about?  And so, we started this effort.   
  
And some of you know — and you certainly know; my host knows — about
diabetes and other issues that require insulin.  Well, you know, it was
costing people — the average person — somewhere between 4- and 500 bucks
a month.  Now, they cannot charge more than $35 a month.  (Applause.)  
  
And, folks, they’re still making 350 percent profit.  The guy who came
up with that insulin said he didn’t want to patent it because he wanted
it available to everyone.  It costs 10 bucks to make and 13 bucks to
package, maximum — 35 bucks.   
  
And we also changed the law — we changed the law for the future,
beginning in <s>2024</s> \[2025\], every — no senior is going to have to
pay more than $2,000 a year for their combined prescription costs, even
if — and some of these cancer drugs, as you all unfortunately know too
well, are $10-, $12-, $14,000 a year.    
  
And — but it’s not just it saves the patients money. And saves — but it
saves the — it reduces the deficit.  You know, the one thing we’ve done
so far — you know how much they’re going to cut the deficit by?  $160
billion — 160 — because Medicare doesn’t have to pay out.  They have to
pay out 35 bucks instead of — 38 bucks or 40, instead of paying out 400
bucks for one prescription.  
  
So, anyway.  We wanted everyone to make it.  We wanted to make it for
everybody.  And we did get that passed initially, but as we went through
the renegotiation process for the next budget, my MAGA friends in the
Republican Party cut it out.  So, to finish the job, I want to make sure
35-bucks insulin is for everybody — not just Medicare, everybody. 
(Applause.)  
  
And the deal we were able to put into law: We’re — every year, we’re
going to be able to get dozens of other prescription drugs.  Six — six a
year — new drugs can be picked.  Six a year.  And it also <s>serves</s>
\[saves\] taxpayers billions of dollars.  
  
Look, Trump and his MAGA friends are promising again to get rid of the
Affordable Care Act.  As our host has told you, that law protects
millions of Americans with pre-existing conditions who are not well
off.  They cannot afford to get insurance.   
  
This will be — Trump has announced they’re going to do it again.  This
will be the — the 51st time that the MAGA Republicans have tried to
eliminate this.   
  
“Finish the job” means protecting and expanding the Affordable Care Act
and doing it now.  You know, look, it means protecting and strengthening
Social Security and Medicare.  The fact is, Republicans want to put it
on the chopping block.   
  
You may remember the last State of the Union message.  I was able to
spontaneously embarrass them into saying they wouldn’t try it last
year.  You remember that?  They were booing me.  And I said, “How many
of you out there are for cutting Me-…”  (Laughter.)  And I said, “Well,
raise your hand if you’re going to commit to you’re not going to do
anything to Medi-…”  (Laughter.)  
  
Well, they’re back at it.  Medicare has to be dealt with, but not the
way they’re proposing it.   
  
Trump wants to do away with the most historic action ever on climate. 
We’re going to finish the job with the Inflation Reduction Act.  We
should have called it the “Climate Act.”  But, you know, it calls for
$368 billion — more money than ever, in all of history, to be spent on
climate.  And it’s beginning to work.  Some of you are deeply involved
in the climate fight, and you know we’re on the cusp of a lot of
breakthroughs — a lot of breakthroughs.  
  
And we’re going to build clean energy here — here in America — invest
here in America.  It’s on its way.  
  
“Finish the job” means making housing more affordable and more
accessible.  You know, we made progress with tax fairness.  The — I come
from the corporate capital of the world: Delaware.  More of you are
incorporated in Delaware than — (laughter) — and I got elected six times
in Delaware, so — (laughter).  I’m not anti-corporation, but you got to
pay your taxes.  (Laughter.)  
  
And so, folks, look, making tax fairness is the big- — and the biggest
corporations begin to pay their fair share.  Right now we have — I was
able to increase the tax to a minimum tax of 15 percent.  That paid for
every one of the programs I got passed through and, plus, cut the
deficit by $7 billion.  
  
But, look, here — here’s what we’ve got to do: Trump’s $2 trillion
dollar tax cut — not a penny of which is paid for — some of you were
able to benefit from that.  I’m sure it wasn’t what you asked for, but
some of you.  But the vast — vast majority of American people, including
— by the way, I’ve not increased taxes for anybody over 400- — 4- —
under $400,000 a year, period.   
  
But the point is we’re in a situation where it’s gotten out of hand, and
the deficit increased — it ballooned under Trump, overwhelmingly
benefiting — and — but, look, to finish the job, in my view, means
getting rid of Trump’s tax cut, which expires next year, and closing the
loopholes.   
  
Now, I hope some of you in here are billionaires.  I’m a capitalist. 
(Laughter.)  No, I mean it.  But paying an average of 8.2 percent ain’t
enough.  I don’t know anybody in America wouldn’t trade — say, “Want to
trade for 8.2 percent for whatever you’re paying?”  I don’t know
anybody.  
  
But if we just had a billionaire minimum tax of 25 percent, guess what? 
That would raise $440 billion over the next 10 years — $440 billion —
allow us to pay for everything from — it would grow the economy, from
childcare, to long-term care, and so much more.   
  
And it’s not confiscatory to anybody.  It’s just being a little bit
fair.   
  
You know, it’s good for families, but it’s also good for the economy.  I
asked the Treasury Department to do a study on whether or not there was
— what would happen if we did this.  It grows the economy.  It grows the
economy because you got — women are able to go out and work because they
have childcare.  You got — I won’t go through it all because I’m
supposed to make this short.  (Laughter.)  
  
But, look, Trump and his MAGA friends are determined to take away your
fundamental freedoms.   
  
“Finish the job” means passing the John Lewis Voting Rights Act,
finally.  (Applause.)  
  
Trump brags about having taken away Roe v. Wade by the Court he appo- —
he appointed — a woman’s freedom to choose.  Well, now a new report is
out there.  He’s saying that he wants to limit what any state can — what
any state — number they can set — limit the ni- — the — the right to
choose across the board.   
  
Well, guess what?  I made it real clear.  If our MAGA Republican friends
do that, I will veto it.  (Applause.)  I will veto it.   
  
And if you elect Kamala and me and we take back the House and a little
bigger majority in the Senate, I promise you: We will fully restore Roe
v. Wade — (applause) — fully restore Roe v. Wade.   
  
I kept my promise to appoint the first Black \[woman\] Supreme Court
justice.  And then, what I didn’t realize is — I said I wanted an
administration that looked like the American people.  One of you said —
I will — I will not use the exact phrase she used in the — in the line —
but I should pay more attention to women’s issues.  I pointed out I
wanted an administration that looked like America.  I have more women in
my Cabinet then men.  (Laughter and applause.)  There’s more women in my
administration than men — in my administration — across the board.  
  
In addition to that — in addition to appointing the first Black woman to
the Supreme Court, I have appointed more women to the appellate courts
than every other president in American history combined.  (Applause.) 
They’re part of the 177 federal judge we’ve appointed so far.  And
“finish the job” means getting more judges on the bench while we can,
now.  
  
All this progress matters to the American people and positions us to win
in 2024, in my view.  
  
And that brings me to my second point: We have to make — we have to make
constant and crystal clear the choice here.  I am often quoted as saying
what my dad would say: “Don’t compare me to the Almighty; compare me to
the alternative.”  Well — (the President makes the sign of the cross.) 
(Laughter.)  
  
But, look, time and again, Republicans show they’re part of a — part of
a party of chaos and division.  Think about this.  The Republican party
this year has no platform.  No, I’m not — I’m not jok- — I’m not
joking.  There is no place you can go and get the Republican
platform.   
  
Look what they’re doing with the bipartisan immigration border law.  We
worked for five months to get that.  The border is in chaos.  The bord-
— and the first bill I ever introduced as a pres- — as President of the
United States was on the border, on immigration.  We need somewhere in
an order — in excess of 2,000 additional personnel at the border — from
judges to ICE to just the Border Patrol.  They don’t have the
personnel.  
  
And, by the way, the idea the Border Patrol endorsed me this time out,
if I’m so — so much of chaos.  (Laughter.)  Well, look — and so, we — we
came up with a proposal.  It did everything I wanted, and I promised I’d
come back for it.  It didn’t deal with the issue — which I think we
should be dealing with — which has to do with minors who have come
here.  Anyway.  I won’t go into it.   
  
But there’s — we can all — we can pick that all up.  But in the
meantime, we’ve got to get the personnel at the border.  They won’t even
give us the money for the technology to identify the fentanyl that’s
coming through.  We have machines that can determine and find it.  
  
Look, you know, and it looked like it was going to pass –pass through
the Senate.  You know what Trump did?  I’m told he was on the telephone
calling House members, threatening with retribution if they voted for
it.  Why?  Because, quote, “It would help Biden.”  
  
Like I said, I’ve been around a long time, but I don’t ever remember a
time when the opposition was driven by the prospect, even if it’s a good
pre- — proposal, that “Don’t do it because it would help the incumbent
president.”   
  
Look what they’re doing to the national security supplemental.  That’s
that — I used the Senate terms; I shouldn’t — some of the money for
Ukraine, Israel, and the Palestinian people.  The Palestinian people
need more help.  And they’re doing nothing.  Won’t even let it come up
for a vote.  Why?  Because Donald Trump tells them not to do it.  
  
It’s outrageous.  He’s even gone further.  And I — when I — I knew this,
but when I said it before, people looked at me like I was crazy until it
got all over television.  He invites Putin to invade NATO countries — to
invade NATO — do whatever the hell you want, take them down if you’re
not paying your dues.   
  
He has no notion of history.  Imagine, had we had — not had NATO the
last seven decades, what would be — what would be the situation in
Europe now.  We need it as badly as Europe needs it.  It’s crazy.  
  
The bottom line is Republicans have to decide who they serve.  Do they
serve Donald Trump, or do they serve the American people?  Are they here
to solve problems or just to weaponize them as political issues? 
Because that’s literally what it’s come to.  I’m not — not a joke.  Not
a joke.  
  
There’s still a lot of good Republicans.  This is not your father’s
Republican Party, though.  There’s a lot of good Republicans in the
Senate — House and Senate.  I’ve had seven — I will not name them; I
promised I never would, and I won’t.  Over the last three years, seven
senators I worked with when I was a senator have come in saying, “Joe…”
— individually — “Joe, I agree with you, but I can’t — I can’t do it
because they’ll primary me, and I’ll be lost.”  It does not say much
about political courage, but it says about what the state of the party
is right now.  
  
Look, I’m here and you’re here helping out to serve the American
people.  It sounds ridiculous to have to say that.  When we make it
clear — we’re going to make that actually clear to the American people,
we’re going to win.   
  
Just look at 2020.  In 2020, we were supposed to get shellacked. 
Remember?  And I made that speech that became very famous at the
Independence Hall about democracy being at stake.  And the press, who’s
in the room here, a lot of them asked, “What’s he talking about
democracy for?”  Well, 66 percent of the American people agree with me:
It’s at stake.  It’s at stake.  
  
2022, we were supposed to get blistered.  Remember?  In the off year,
the only — we were the on- — of all the presidents who, in an off year
for them, didn’t lose.  Remember the red wave was coming?  Well, guess
what?  The lowest amount of wins for the party that’s out of office in —
I think, ever, but I don’t want to — I can’t guarantee that — but than
anybody ever thought.  
  
2023, we were supposed to clobbered.  We won every critical race out
there but one — every one: governors, senators, as well as off-year
elections that occurred.  
  
Look, this gets me to my final point.  We can’t take anything for
granted.  Trump and his friends are doing one thing: deliberately trying
to divide us.  It’s about dividing the country.   
  
When I ran the first time, I said I was running for three years — for
three reasons in my first term out.  I said I was running because I
wanted to restore the soul of the nation.  That wasn’t hyperbole.  I
meant the sense of decency and honor, being able to know what your
leaders are telling you are truthful.   
  
I said, secondly, I want to do — I want to run for a second reason:
because I want to change the dynamic of how we build the middle class. 
Because when you build the middle class, everybody does well.  I was
tired of trickle-down economics.   
  
A lot of you are economists and run multibillion-dollar companies.  Name
me a time when you thought we were going to be as well off in terms of
economics as we are today.  Raise your hand if you thought, like I
thought from the beginning, we would not have a recession, that we would
be, in fact — I won’t go through it all.  
  
But the fact of the matter is, when you build from the middle out and
the bottom up, the poor have a shot, the middle class do well, and the
wealthy still very, very well.   
  
You know, these guys want to drag us back to the future.  I’m trying to
pull us into — I mean, excuse me — drive us back to the past.  I want to
pull us into the future.  
  
Refusing to accept the results of the last election, still; seeking, as
Trump says, to, quote, “terminate” elements of the Constitution.  He is
saying it out loud — terminate elements — he thinks he has the right to
terminate elements of the Constitution.   
  
He embraces political violence.  No president since the Civil War has
done that: embracing it, encouraging it.  You saw what he did, he — with
the January 6th insurrectionists.  He calls them “patriots” and saying,
if he gets elected, he’s going to pardon them all.  These guys killed
cops.  They killed people.  
  
I was at the first meeting of the G7 with the European leaders when — in
February after I got elected.  And I sat down, and I was sitting next to
Macron.  And I said, “Well, America is back.”  He looked at me and said,
“For how long, Joe?”  Not a joke.   
  
The German Chancellor spoke up and said, “Joe, what would you say if
tomorrow we picked up the London Times and you read in London that they
broke down the doors of the Parliament to stop the election of a Prime
Minister, and three bobbies were killed?  What would you think?”  What
would we think?  I mean, just put yourself — what would we think?  
  
We are the leader of the free world, God darn it.  We are looked to. 
(Applause.)  No, I mean it.  We are.  The rest of the world looks to
us.  They look to us.   
  
Doesn’t mean we have the responsibility of doing everything, but we have
a responsibility of doing what we can, and we can do more than any other
country can.  
  
When he calls immigrants the “vermin” who poison the blood of the
country, threatening our very democracy, as he says.  Folks, no wonder
the survey of 150 presidential scholars done a couple of weeks ago rates
him as the worst president in American history.  These are presidential
scholars, his- — presidential historians.  
  
Look, folks, we have to make it clear that the America we believe in
still believes in honesty, still believes in decency and dignity,
respect.  We believe everyone deserves just a fair shot — no guarantees,
just a fair shot — an even opportunity.  We leave nobody behind.  
  
My dad, who was a really well-read man — he got into Johns Hopkins when
he was out — getting out of school, but the war came along so he never
went.  My dad used to have an expression.  I mean this; I give you my
word as a Biden.  He’d say, “Joey, remember, a job is about a lot more
than a paycheck.  It’s about your dignity.  It’s about respect.  It’s
about being able to look your kid in the eye and say, ‘Honey, it’s going
to be okay’ and believe he has a shot.”   
  
Where’s the dignity and respect shown to working people in this country
until recently?  Where is it?   
  
You know, in America, we’ve never before given hate to safe harbor. 
This guy gives safe — safe harbor.  
  
And as I said earlier, I believe in science.  You believe in science. 
This guy — we’ve made more progress in three years than most presidents
have made in eight, so far, with your help and with the help of a lot of
smart people in my administration.  But it can all be wiped out.  Not
hyperbole.  It can all be wiped out in this election.  
  
So, we have to stay focused on what we do — have to do to win.  We have
to get out the vote.  We have to keep the White House, we have to keep
the Senate, and we have — must bring — win back the House.   
  
If we do that, we can say something that few generations of electors
have ever been able to say: We will have saved democracy.   
  
I’m — I’m tempted to go on, but I won’t.  
  
Here’s the deal.  Think about it.  Think about what happens if Donald
Trump wins this election.  Think about all the things you’ve worked
for.  Not a joke.  Just ask any of the MAGA Republicans who are out
there.  
  
And, by the way, not all Republicans — a lot of decent Republicans —
Republican senators and congressmen, governors.  But these guys, they
control the party.  About 32 percent of them control it.  If they win,
it’s a different world.  
  
Katie, there’s two of your former colleagues — not at the same network —
who have told me personally that, if he wins, they have to leave the
country because he has threatened to put them in jail for things they’ve
— he’s — they’ve said about him.  This is the United States of
America.  
  
So, folks, we just remember who in the hell we are.  We’re the United
States of America — the United States of America.  There is nothing —
nothing beyond our capacity — not a damn thing in — when we all work
together — not a damn thing.  And that’s not hyperbole.  
  
As I said earlier, name me a country that’s come out of every crisis
stronger than it went in, other than the United States.  Name me one. 
Name me one.  
  
So, folks, we have enormous opportunities — enormous, enormous
opportunities.  And I’m not the gift of all presidents, but I’m sure in
hell better than the last guy.  (Laughter and applause.)  
  
Thank you very much.  (Applause.)  
  
3:01 P.M. PST
