---
date: '2024-02-21'
modified_time: 2024-02-21 19:49:47-05:00
published_time: 2024-02-21 20:00:00-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/02/21/remarks-by-president-biden-on-the-saving-on-a-valuable-education-plan-culver-city-ca/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden on the Saving on a Valuable Education Plan | Culver\
  \ City,\_CA"
---
 
Culver City Julian Dixon Library  
Culver City, California

1:18 P.M. PST

THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you, thank you, thank you.  (Applause.)

Well, Dr. Saint-Paul, thank you very much for that introduction.  But,
you know, you’re — you’re like thousands of others who — who took out
loans for undergraduate school and graduate school and — because you
wanted to serve your community, and you have.

But, in the meantime, that $90,000 you borrowed grew to $145,000, even
though you kept paying on a monthly basis.

Folks, I’m happy to have been able to forgive these loans because when
we realize and relieve Americans of their student debt, they’re free to
chase their dreams.

And, Doc, you’ve got one of your dreams: your baby girl.  And a — and by
the way, an awful lot of people with student debt are putting off
whether they can have a child, whether they can — a whole range of
basic, basic, fundamental issues.

And, Mayor Bass, thank you for your partnership and, more importantly
for me, your friendship.

And I want to thank the Culver City Mayor.  Where are you, Mayor?

MAYOR MCMORRIN:  Right here.

THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you.  (Laughter.)  Thank you, thank you, thank
you. 

It’s great to — and it’s great to be joined by members of Congress: Alex
in the Senate and Sydney in the House.  I really appreciate you being
here.  It’s a busman’s holiday for you guys to come hear another public
official speak, but thank you.

And I know our great Vice President sends her love to all her California
friends.  She constantly — all I hear about is California, you know? 
(Laughter.)  No, I’m glad to be here.  When I was vice president, all I
heard about was Chicago, you know?  (Laughter.)  But I’m making — trying
to make sure they hear about Delaware, but it ain’t working yet. 
(Laughter.)

Look, Kamala and I ran to lead this country.  We made a commitment to
fix our broken student loan system.  That was one of the things we both
talked about in the beginning.  Because while a college degree is still
a ticket to a better life, that ticket is too expensive.   And too many
Americans are still saddled with unsustainable debt in exchange for a
college degree.

So, there was a student loan program to be able to afford a college
degree, but a lot of people didn’t take advantage of it.  What — and I
wanted to make sure they did.

The ability to repay, though, has become so burdensome, a lot of people
can’t even repay.  And they try.  They — they don’t miss payments.  They
work like the devil every month to pay their bills.  But even if they
pay their loans, their debt increases.  It doesn’t diminish because of
interest rates.

And I thought I’d — make a lot more sense to relieve student debt for
families and it would grow our economy. 

Well, there’s a — were existing programs in the law.  To fix and adjust
the programs, we had — we had to change them to make people actually —
make them available for — make people eligible.  And that’s what I’ve
done when the Supreme Court said I couldn’t go ahead and relieve all the
debt.

It helps everyone, not just the people whose debt is relieved.  But when
people with student debt are re- — student debt relieved, they buy
homes, they start businesses, they contribute.  They engage in the
community in ways they weren’t able to before.  That actually grows the
economy.  It grows the economy.

That’s why my — my administration is taking significant action to
provide student debt relief to so many borrows — borrowers that — many
of whom didn’t know they were — they were able to get relief, and do it
as quickly and as — as possible.

Look, early in my term, I announced a major plan to provide millions of
working families with debt relief for their college student debt.  Tens
of millions of people in debt were literally about to be canceled —
their debts.  But my MAGA Republican friends in the Congress, elected
officials, and special interests stepped in and sued us.  And the
Supreme Court blocked it.  They blocked it.

But that didn’t stop me.  I announced we were going to pursue
alternative paths for student debt relief for as many borrowers as
possible.  And that’s the effort that’s been underway the last two
years.

I fixed what’s called the “SAVE Plan.”  It existed, but I fixed it to
make it the most affordable repayment plan ever.

Before I took office, student borrowers had to pay 10 percent of their
discretionary income on a monthly basis.  If they made less than — if
they didn’t have enough to do that, they were able to not have to pay
that month, but the interest continued.  A lot of people don’t have the
means to do that, though.

Under my SAVE Plan, we’re cutting in half to 5 percent the undergraduate
borrowers — what undergraduate borrowers have to pay after their living
expenses are accounted for.

That means no one with an undergraduate loan, whether it’s a community
college or a four-year college, will have to pay more than 5 percent of
their discretionary income to repay those loans starting in July.  And
that’s income after you pay the ne- — for necessities like food and
housing. 

Already 7.5 million Americans have enrolled in this so-called SAVE
Plan.  And there’s more than 4 million of those borrowers had their
monthly payments drop to zero if they’re living paycheck to paycheck,
below a certain level.

This plan is the most generous repayment program ever, and today we’re
doing it even faster and quicker than ever before.

I’m proud to announce our SAVE plan.  We are immediately canceling the
debt loans for over 150,000 borrowers nearly six months ahead of
schedule.

Starting today, we are canceling student debt for borrowers who are
enrolled in the SAVE Plan and have been paying student loans for as
little as 10 years.  If they took less than tw- — if they borrowed less
than $2,000, it’s forgiven — they — $12,000, excuse me, it’s for- — the
loan is forgiven.

This action will be a huge help to graduates of community college and
borrowers with smaller loans, putting them back on track faster for debt
forgiveness than ever before. 

And this builds on other progress I’ve made in canceling student debt
for close to 4 million Americans through various actions. 

For example, we fixed what was called the Public Service Loan program —
Loan Forgiveness program, which was designed to make sure that school
teachers, firefighters, law enforcement officers, social workers, public
servants get their student loans forgiven if they make payments for 10
years in a row and the 10 years of public service at the same time.

When I took office, there were 7,000 public servants who had taken
advantage of this program and had them forgiven, but thanks to the
reforms we made in the program, now there are nearly 800,000 have had
their debts forgiven — 800,000.  (Applause.) 

Look, let me close with this.  This is — kind of relief can be
life-changing for individuals and for their families.  And it’s good for
the economy as a whole.

By freeing millions of Americans from the crushing debt of student loan
programs, it means they can finally get on with their lives instead of
getting — their lives being put on hold.  They can think about buying a
house, starting a home, starting a family, having a family future that
they can enjoy, or saving for the family’s future — saving and being
able to put away a little bit of money.

I’m proud to have been able to give borrowers, like so many of you, the
relief you earned.  I promise you I’m never going to stop fighting for
hardworking American families. 

 So, if you qualify, you’ll be hearing from me shortly.  Thousands of
people per month are eligible — about 25,000 a month are eli- — or every
two months — it will be paid at a 50,000 basis — but are eligible for
relief, and they’ll be getting a letter from me letting them know
they’re qualified.  And when they get that letter, your debt is going to
be forgiven.

Look, folks, and it’s also helping you who don’t go to college.  It’s
not just — you know, people say to me sometimes, “Well, Joe, that’s
great, you’re helping people get into college, but how about all those
hardworking people you grew up with in the neighborhood?  How about all
those folks in labor unions?  How about all those hardworking people
that work with their hands, why should they…”

Well, just today, my Labor Department announced 200 — this is not the
student loan program, but $200 million in grants for registered —
registered apprenticeship programs around the country — while you can
learn a skilled trade and lead to good-paying jobs.

You know, everybody thinks if you’re an electrician, you — you say, “I
want to be electrician,” and you’re all — you got to go to school,
basically.  These apprenticeship programs are four and five years before
you qualify to have a license.  They work like hell to get these
licenses. 

And guess what?  If you work with your hands, you ought to be able to
make a decent living.  And that’s why they’re doing it now with my prop-
— my — my position on organized labor.

So, it matters.  All of this matters.

My dad used to say, “Joey, a — a paycheck is about more than — a job is
about more than a paycheck.  It’s about your dignity.  It’s about
opportunity.  It’s about being able to look your kid in the eye and say,
‘Honey, it’s going to be okay.  You got a chance.’” 

That’s all we’re doing — and people are taking advantage of it — giving
people a chance, a fighting chance to make it, because no one who’s
willing to work hard in America should be denied the opportunity to have
that chance.

And so, I — how many of you had student loans forgiven here? 

All right.  (Laughter.) 

I tell you what, how about anybody over $10,000?  $30,000?  $50,000?

AUDIENCE MEMBER:  Next month.

THE PRESIDENT:  Next month?  Okay. 

Anyway.  Seriously, thank you. 

And people have to understand: You not only did the right thing by
busting your neck and going back to school and doing as well as you did
in school, but you’re breaking your neck for people.  You’re doing it
through programs that benefit the society — benefit the American
people. 

Just like I got criticized not long ago for being too favorable on
organized labor and unions.  Well, they’re the best workers in the
world.  They’re the most qualified technicians in the — no, they really
are.  They really are.  

And — (applause) — and the economy is growing.  It’s growing — jobs,
income — across the board.  We have the most advanced economy of any
major nation in the world.

We’ve got a lot more to do, but with the help of all of you college
graduates who — who have paid off your student loans now, I’m confident
we’re going to get it all done.

Thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you.  Appreciate it.  (Applause.)

Q    Do you worry this will get shut down in court?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  I don’t have a worry at all.  
  
1:29 P.M. PST
