---
date: '2024-02-13'
modified_time: 2024-02-13 15:45:37-05:00
published_time: 2024-02-13 15:45:36-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/02/13/remarks-by-president-biden-on-senate-passage-of-the-bipartisan-supplemental-agreement/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden on Senate Passage of the Bipartisan Supplemental\_\
  Agreement"
---
 
State Dining Room

2:13 P.M. EST

THE PRESIDENT: Good afternoon.

Q Good afternoon.

THE PRESIDENT: Before we begin, I’m going to make this statement and let
it stand on its own. I’m not going to take any questions, but I’ll be
taking questions tomorrow or the next day. But I don’t want anything to
get in the way of this statement, to be very blunt about it. Not that
you wouldn’t just focus on the statement.

Earlier this morning, the United States Senate, as you all know, voted
overwhelmingly, by a margin of 70 to 29, to move forward with a
bipartisan national security bill.

Now — now it moves to the House, and I urge Speaker Johnson to bring it
to the floor immediately — immediately.

There is no question that if the Senate bill was put on the floor in the
House of Representatives, it would pass. It would pass. And the Speaker
knows that.

So, I call on the Speaker to let the full House speak its mind and not
allow a minority of the most extreme voices in the House to block this
bill even from being voted on — even from being voted on. This is a
critical act for the House to move. It needs to move.

And the bill provides urgent funding for Ukraine so it can keep
defending itself against Putin’s vicious, vicious onslaught.

We’ve all seen the terrible stories in recent weeks: Ukrainian soldiers
out of artillery shells, Ukrainian units rationing rounds of ammunition
to defend themselves, Ukrainian families worried that the next Russian
strike will permanently plunge them into darkness or worse.

This bipartisan bill sends a clear message to Ukrainians and to our
partners and to our allies around the world: America can be trusted,
America can be relied upon, and America stands up for freedom. We stand
strong for our allies. We never bow down to anyone, and certainly not to
Vladimir Putin. So, let’s get on with this.

Remember, the United States pulled together a coalition of nearly 50
nations to support Ukraine. We unified NATO; we expanded it. We can’t
walk away now. That’s what Putin is betting on. He’s ve- — he just
flatly said that.

Supporting this bill is standing up to Putin. Opposing it is playing
into Putin’s hands.

As I have said before, the stakes in this fight extend far beyond
Ukraine. If we don’t stop Putin’s appetite for power and control in
Ukraine, he won’t limit himself just to Ukraine and the costs for
America and our allies and partners is going to rise.

For Republicans in Congress who think they can oppose funding for
Ukraine and not be held accountable: History is watching. History is
watching. History is watching. Failure to support Ukraine at this
critical moment will never be forgotten.

I want to be clear about something, because I know it’s important to the
American people: While this bill sends military equipment to Ukraine, it
spends the money right here in the United States of America in places
like Arizona, where the Patriot missiles are built; and Alabama, where
the Javelin missiles are built; and Pennsylvania, Ohio, and Texas, where
artillery shells are made.

And the way it works is we supply Ukraine with military equipment from
our stockpiles, and then we spend our money replenishing those
stockpiles so our military has access to them — stockpiles that are made
right here in America by American workers. That not only supports
American jobs and American communities, it allows us to invest in
maintaining and strengthening our own defense manufacturing capacity.

Look, this bill meets our national security priorities in the Middle
East as well. It includes greater support for our troops serving in the
region who continue to defend against mili- — militia attacks backed by
Iran.

It also provides Israel with the — what it needs to protect its people
against a terrorist group like Hamas and Hezbollah and others. And it
will provide lifesaving humanitarian aid to the Palestinian people, who
desperately need food, water, and shelter. They need help.

And finally, this bill includes critical funding for our national
security priorities in Asia, because even as we focus on the conflicts
in Gaza and Ukraine, we must not take our eye off our national security
challenges in the Pacific.

It’s the responsibility of a great nation. And we are a great nation
that the rest of the world looks to. And I mean that: The rest of the
world looks to us.

The stakes were already high for American security before this bill was
passed in the Senate last night. But in recent days, those stakes have
risen. And that’s because the former President has set a dangerous and
shockingly, frankly, un-American signal to the world.

Just a few days ago, Trump gave an invitation to Putin to invade some of
our Ally — NATO Allies. He said if an Ally didn’t spend enough money on
defense, he would encourage Russia to, quote, “do whatever the hell they
want,” end of quote.

Can you imagine a former President of the United States saying that? The
whole world heard it. And the worst thing is he means it.

No other president in our history has ever bowed down to a Russian
dictator. Well, let me say this as clearly as I can: I never will.

For God’s sake, it’s dumb, it’s shameful, it’s dangerous, it’s
un-American.

When America gives it word, it means something. When we make a
commitment, we keep it. And NATO is a sacred commitment.

Donald Trump looks at this as if it’s a burden. When he looks at NATO,
he doesn’t see the alliance that protects America and the world. He sees
a protection racket.

He doesn’t understand that NATO is built on the fundamental principles
of freedom, security, and national sovereignty, because, for Trump,
principles never matter. Everything is transactional. He doesn’t
understand that the sacred commitment we have given works for us as
well.

In fact, I would remind Trump and all those who would walk away from
NATO: Article 5 has only been invoked once — just once in our NATO
history — and it was done to stand with America after we were attacked
on 9/11. We should never forget it.

You know, our adversaries have long sought to create cracks in the
Alliance. The greatest hope of all those who wish America harm is for
NATO to fall apart. And you can be sure that they all cheered when they
heard Donald Trump — when they heard what he said.

I know this: I will not walk away. I can’t imagine any other president
walking away. For as long as I’m president, if Putin attacks a NATO
Ally, the United States will defend every inch of NATO territory.

Let me close with this. You’ve heard me say this before. Our nation
stands at an inflection point — an inflection point in history — where
the decisions we make now are going to determine the course of our
future for decades to come. This is one of those moments.

And I say to the House members, House Republicans: You’ve got to decide.
Are you going to stand up for freedom, or are you going to side with
terror and tyranny? Are you going to stand with Ukraine, or are you
going to stand with Putin? Will we stand with America or — or with
Trump?

Republicans and Democrats in the Senate came together to send a message
of unity to the world. It’s time for the House Republicans to do the
same thing: to pass this bill immediately, to stand for decency, stand
for democracy, to stand up to a so-called leader hellbent on weakening
the American security.

And I mean this sincerely: History is watching. History is watching.

In moments like this, we have to remember who we are. We’re the United
States of America. The world is looking to us. There is nothing beyond
our capacity when we act together. In this case, acting together
includes acting with our NATO Allies.

God bless you all. May God protect our Speaker.

And I promise I’ll come back and answer questions later.

Thank you.

2:21 P.M. EST
