---
date: '2024-02-12'
published_time: 2024-02-12 19:21:49-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/02/12/remarks-by-president-biden-and-his-majesty-king-abdullah-ii-of-jordan-after-a-meeting/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden and His Majesty King Abdullah II of Jordan After\
  \ a\_Meeting"
---
 
Cross Hall

4:22 P.M. EST  
  
PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Good afternoon.  Let me start by welcoming His
Majesty, the King of Jordan.  He’s been a good friend.  Abdullah,
welcome back to the White House, man.  Welcome back.  And, by the way,
Barack is looking at you in the corner over there.  
  
And along with Qree- — Queen <s>Riana</s> \[Rania\], who is meeting with
Jill now, and the Queen — and the Crown Prince Hussein.  Where — is the
Prince out here?  I thought he was coming out.  Any rate.   
  
We’ve known each other for many years.  And His Majesty has been a good
friend all those years, a steadfast partner alongside the Queen, and a
beloved leader to their people.  The partnership between the United
States and our ally Jordan is strong and it is enduring.   
  
Today, the King and I discussed with our senior foreign policy staffs
what — the issue that’s front and center in the Middle East and well
beyond: the war between Israel and the terrorist organization Hamas. 
Over four months ago, on October the 7th, Hamas attacked Israel in an
act of sheer evil, massacring more than 1,200 innocent women, men, and
children — the deadliest day for the Jewish people since the
Holocaust.   
  
More than 250 hostages were taken.  A hundred and thirty-four are still
being held hostage by Hamas.  We don’t know how many are still alive. 
The anguish that their families are enduring week after week, month
after month is unimaginable.  And it’s a top priority for the United
States to bring them home.   
  
I’ve made clear the United States shares the goal of seeing Hamas
defeated and ensuring long-term security for Israel and its people.  
  
After the October 7th attacks, Hamas retreated back into Gaza, where its
leaders live in underground tunnels, stretching for over 100 miles
beneath civilian infrastructure, including — including schools,
playgrounds, and neighborhoods.   
  
The past four months, as the war has raged, the Palestinian people have
also suffered unimaginable pain and loss.  Too many — too many of the
over 27,000 Palestinians killed in this conflict have been innocent
civilians and children, including thousands of children.  And hundreds
of thousands have no access to food, water, or other basic services.  
  
Many families have lost not just one but many relatives and cannot mourn
for them or even bury them because it’s not safe to do so.  It’s
heart-breaking.   
  
Every innocent life \[lost\] in Gaza is a tragedy, just as every
innocent life lost in Israel is a tragedy as well.  We pray for those
lives taken — both Israeli and Palestinian — and for the grieving
families left behind.   
  
Not only do we pray for peace, we are actively working for peace,
security, and dignity for both the Palestinian people and the Israeli
people.  And I’m working on this day and night with the King and others
in the region to find the means to bring all these hostages home, to
ease the humanitarian crisis, and to end the terror threat and to bring
peace to Gaza and Israel — an enduring peace with a two-state solution
for two peoples.   
  
As the King and I discussed today, the United States is working on a
hostage deal between Israel and Hamas, which would bring immediate and
sustained period of calm into Gaza for at least six weeks, which we
could then take the time to build something more enduring.  
  
Over the past month, I’ve had calls with Prime Minister Netanyahu, as
well as the leaders of Egypt and Qatar, to push this forward.  The key
element of the deals are on the table.  There are gaps that remain, but
I’ve encouraged Israeli leaders  
to keep working to achieve the deal.  The United States will do
everything possible to make it happen.   
  
The King and I also discussed the situation in Rafah.  As I said
yesterday, our military operation in Rafah — their — the major military
operation in Rafah should not proceed without a credible plan — a
credible plan for ensuring the safety and support of more than one
million people sheltering there.  Many people there have been displaced
— displaced multiple times, fleeing the violence to the north, and now
they’re packed into Rafah — exposed and vulnerable.  They need to be
protected.   
  
And we have also been clear from the start: We oppose any forced
displacement of Palestinians from Gaza.  
  
Today, the King and I also discussed in detail how to get more
humanitarian aid into Gaza.  From the very beginning, my team and I have
relentlessly worked to get more aid in.  I urged Congress for months to
make sure that our nation’s support for Israel and — also includes
urgently needed aid for Palestinians.  And I’ve spoken repeatedly with
partners across the region, including the King, to help facilitate the
flow of such aid into Gaza as much as possible and that will actually
get to the people that there — that are — need it.    
  
We worked to get the Rafah Crossing open.  We worked to get Kerem Shalom
open.  And we insist that we remain — it remain open — both remain
open.  We’re working to open other routes as well.  And we’re also
working relentlessly to make sure aid workers can get the aid where it’s
needed once it gets through.  
  
I want to recognize Jordan and the King specifically for all he has done
to provide humanitarian aid to Gaza, including just a few days ago.  He
personally got in a plane and helped conduct an air drop of urgently
needed medical supplies into Gaza.   
  
I understand that two of his children have also joined those air drops. 
They helped fly humanitarian supplies in.  And for years, the Queen has
been passionate — a passionate advocate for the Palestinian people,
particularly women and children.  Your family’s leadership, Your
Majesty, and humanitarian commitment are commendable.   
  
And at the same time, we’re working to create the conditions for a
lasting peace, as we talked a lot about upstairs, with the Israeli
security guaranteed and Palestinian aspirations for their own state
fulfilled.  I say this as a long — lifelong supporter of Israel.  That’s
the only path that guarantees Israel’s security for the long term.  To
achieve it, the Palestinians must also seize the opportunity.   
  
As I discussed with the King today, the Palestinian Authority must re- —
urgently reform so it can effectively deliver for the Palestinian people
in both the West Bank and Gaza.  Once Hamas’s control of Gaza is over,
they must prepare to build a state that accepts peace, does not harbor
terrorist groups like Hamas and Islamic Jihad.   
  
And together, we will keep working to complete what has — what we
started: to integrate the region, to bring about peace between Israel
and all its Arab neighbors, including a Palestinian state.  That effort
was already underway before the October 7th attacks.  It’s even more
urgent today.   
  
No one — no one understands better than our allies and partners in the
region, including the King, what we need.  I’m grateful to him for his
friendship, including his and Jordan’s unique role — unique role:
custodian of the holy sites in Jerusalem.   
  
We’re grateful for this friendship.  We saw that again just two weeks
ago when three brave American servicemembers were killed in an attack at
a military outpost in Jordan, close to the Syrian border, by radical
militant groups backed by Iran, operating in Syria and Iraq.  Since
then, U.S. military forces have struck targets in Iraq and Syria, and
our response will continue.   
  
We’re grateful for our partners and allies like the King who work with
us every single day to advance security and stability across the region
and beyond.  It’s difficult times like these when the bonds between
nations are more important than ever.   
  
And Jill and I are pleased to welcome him and the Queen and the Crown
Prince to the White House today.   
  
Your Majesty, over to you.  
  
KING ABDULLAH II:  Thank you, sir.  
  
(President Biden moves from one side of the podium to the other.)  
  
Mr. —  
  
PRESIDENT BIDEN:  I switched sides on you.  
  
KING ABDULLAH II:  Sorry.

Mr. President, thank you for your gracious hospitality accorded to me
and my delegation today.

My visit today carries an added meaning as our countries this year mark
75 years of exemplary strategic partnership.  However, we had hoped we
would be marking this major milestone during better circumstances in my
region and the world.

Unfortunately, one of the most devastating wars in recent history
continues to unfold in Gaza as we speak.  Nearly 100,000 people have
been killed, injured, or are missing.  The majority are women and
children.

We cannot afford an Israeli attack on Rafah.  It is certain to produce
another humanitarian catastrophe.  The situation is already unbearable
for over a million people who have been pushed into Rafah since the war
started.

We cannot stand by and let this continue.  We need a lasting ceasefire
now.  This war must end.  We must urgently and immediately work to
ensure the sustainable delivery of sufficient aid to Gaza through all
possible entry points and mechanisms.  And I thank you, Mr. President,
for your support on this.

Restrictions on vital relief aid and medical items are leading to
inhumane conditions.  No other U.N. agency can do what UNRWA is doing in
helping the people of Gaza through this humanitarian catastrophe.

Its work in other areas of operation — especially in Jordan, where 2.3
million are registered — is also vital.  It is imperative that UNRWA
continues to receive the support it needs to carry out its mandate.

The potential threat of Palestinian displacement beyond the borders of
Gaza and the West Bank is something we view with extreme concern and
cannot be allowed.

At the same time, we must ignore — we must not ignore the situation in
the West Bank and in the holy sites in Jerusalem.

Nearly 400 Palestinians have been killed in the West Bank since October
7th, including almost 100 children, and over 4,000 injured. 

Continued escalations by extremist settlers in the West Bank and
Jerusalem’s holy sites and the expansion of illegal settlements will
unleash chaos on the entire region.

The vast majority of Muslim worshippers are not being allowed to enter
Al-Aqsa Mosque.  Christian churches have also voiced concerns about
increasing and unprecedented restrictions and threats.

It is also important to stress that the separation of the West Bank and
Gaza cannot be accepted.

Seven decades of occupation, death, and destruction have proven beyond
any doubt that there can be no peace without a political horizon. 

Military and security solutions are not the answer.  They can never
bring peace.  Civilians on both sides continue to pay for this
protracted conflict with their lives.

All attacks against innocent civilians — women and children — including
those of October 7th, cannot be accepted by any Muslim, as I have
previously stressed.

We must make sure the horrors of the past few months since October 7th
are never repeated nor accepted by any human being.

We must together, along with Arab partners and the international
community, step up efforts to reach a ceasefire in Gaza and immediately
start working to create a political horizon that leads to a just and
comprehensive peace on the basis of the two-state solution — an
independent, sovereign, and viable Palestinian state with East Jerusalem
as its capital but living side by side with Israel in peace and
security.  This is the only solution that will guarantee peace and
security for the Palestinians and the Israelis, as well as the entire
region.

Your leadership, my dear friend, Mr. President, is key to addressing
this conflict.  And Jordan is ready to work, as always, with you towards
peace. 

Thank you.

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Thank you.

4:36 P.M. EST
