---
date: '2024-02-07'
modified_time: 2024-02-08 17:34:47-05:00
published_time: 2024-02-07 22:00:00-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/02/07/remarks-by-president-biden-at-a-campaign-reception-new-york-ny-6/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden at a Campaign Reception | New York,\_NY"
---
 
Mandarin Oriental Hotel  
New York, New York

4:43 P.M. EST  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Whoa.  I have never been with so many doctors — medical
doctors, Gov — (laughter) — since I was four months in a hospital. 
(Laughter.)  God love you all.   
  
Well, please sit, sit, sit, sit, sit, sit.  
  
I — let me start off: Ramon, for that — thank you for that
introduction.  And, Henry — Henry Muñoz, my old buddy, thank you for all
you’ve done for me for a long, long time.  (Applause.)   
  
And, Governor Hochul, if there wasn’t that barrier between us, I’d ask
you to come up on this stage with me, because you are an incredible
governor.  I mean it.  (Applause.)  You are an incredible governor.  
  
You know why I care so much about her?  I mean this sincerely.  She has
absolute total integrity — integrity.  She does what she — she says what
she does, and she does what she says.  And she’s an incredible leader. 
Gov, thank you very, very much.  (Applause.)  
  
And that guy sitting on the end, Meeks, he and I spent a lot of time on
foreign policy when he was chair.  He’s going to be — we’re going to get
you back as chairman again, man.  (Applause.)  Thank you.   
  
Well, you know, the — a lot of you don’t have seats, huh?  So, I’ll cut
this in half.  (Laughter.)  
  
Folks, look, the — the fact is that there’s been — you’ve all been great
champions of change and democracy in this country.  I’ll start with the
simplest message: Thank you.  Thank you, thank you, thank you.  
  
You are literally the reason I’m President of the United States.  You’re
the reason Kamala Harris is a historic first Vice President of
(inaudible).  You’re the reason Donald Trump is a defeated former
President.  (Applause.)  And you’re the reason we’ll make Donald Trump a
loser again.  (Applause.)  
  
In 2020, I ran because I thought everything this country stood for,
everything we believed in, everything that made America “America” was at
risk.  We’re a diverse country.  We’re unique in all the world.  And I
mean it sincerely.  (Coughs.)  Excuse me.  Unique in the sense that
every other country is a consequence of ethnicity, religion — a common
denominator.   
  
In the United States, though, we’re the only country built on an idea. 
The idea is that we hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men
and women are created equal, endow- — that’s — that’s our — that’s what
makes us different.  It’s an idea — an idea we’ve never fully lived up
to, but we’ve never walked away from.   
  
You know, people thought I was being hyperbolic when I said, when I ran,
that our democracy was at risk in 2020.  They’d say, “What do you mean
that we’re in a battle for the soul of America?”  Well, people don’t say
that anymore.  
  
Just think of the mess Donald Trump left this country in.  The pandemic
was raging.  The economy was reeling.  Look how far we’ve come.   
  
I said when I got elected I was going to make — have an administration
that looked like America — a representation that reflected who we are. 
We have more women and people of color in my administration than any
other administration in American history.  We have more people in
Cabinet positions — (coughs).  Excuse me.  I swallowed a cough drop. 
(Laughter.)  It’s rea- — as you can see, it’s really helping me. 
(Laughter.)  
  
But we vaccinated America to get the pan- — through the pandemic.  And
at the time, a lot of us said — and many of you docs said — we’re just
going to — we’re not sure what price we’re going to have to pay for that
pandemic, because a lot of people were in trouble.   
  
The effect of that pandemic: over a million people dead — over a million
people dead.  The data and statistics we’ve worked up is for every one
person who died, there are 8 to 10 people who have lost them — meaning
mother, father, brother, sister, aunt, uncle, husband, wife.  They get
up every morning and look at that empty chair.  
  
We’re only now beginning to — that’s why I picked a psychiatrist, a guy
name Vivek Murthy to be the Surgeon General, because we’re going to need
a lot of help, and a lot of our kids need help too.  
  
But here’s the deal.  Like — because of people like you, I got support
to do the things we had to do.  We’ve got a lot more to do.  
  
We created nearly 15 million new jobs, more than any president ever has
in three years.  Latino small businesses are starting up at the fastest
rate in over a decade.   
  
We sent checks, as a consequence of the first bill we passed, of $1,400
to put in people’s pockets who were in trouble.  On top of that, $300
checks per child per family per month for hardworking families with
limited income.  That’s thousands of dollars in people’s pockets to get
them through a real crisis.  
  
We cut Latino child poverty by 43 percent — by 43 percent. 
(Applause.)  
  
We know — we know we have more to do, but inflation is now lower in
America than any other major economy in the world — in the entire
world.  And in recent weeks, we’re seeing real evidence that American
consumers are feeling real confidence in their economy beginning to
build again.  It’s just beginning to sink in.  
  
A recent Washington Post headline, quote, was “Falling inflation and
rising growth give the United States the world’s best recovery.”  
  
And let me tell you who else is noticing: Donald Trump.  (Laughter.)  He
recently said, “When there’s a crash…” — I can’t imagine a former
President running again looking for a crash — “When there’s a crash, I
hope it’s soon — hope it’s in the next couple of months.”  Because —
it’s unbelievable, but that’s what he said.  How can anyone, especially
a former President, wish for an economic crash that would devastate
millions of people?  
  
But here’s what he really means.  Donald Trump knows the economy we’re
building is strong and getting stronger, particularly for people who
have been left behind.  And he knows that while it’s good for America,
it’s bad for him politically.  
  
Trump also said — he’s the one president he said he didn’t want to be. 
He didn’t want to be Herbert Hoover.  But I got bad news for him.  It’s
too late.  (Laughter.)   
  
There are only two presidents in American history who left office with
fewer jobs than when they came into office: Herbert Hoover — yes, Donald
“Herbert Hoover” Trump.  (Laughter.)  
  
But that’s not all.  Months ago, I instructed my team to begin
negotiations with a bipartisan group of senators — Democrats and
Republicans — to finally fix our immigration system so it’s fair and
controllable.  The result was a bipartisan agreement that represents the
most fair, humane reforms to our immigration system in a long time.   
  
The first bill I introduced as a senator was to fix the immigration
system.  The very first thing — and I said — and I said “senator” — as
President — as President, I introduced.  It would make the country
safer, make our border more secure, but treat people fairly, ensure
legal immigration consistent with our values as a nation and our
international obligations.  But Senate Republicans have blocked it
now.  
  
Just months ago, Republicans were asking for this exact same bill.  They
were asking for the exact same bill.  And now they’re saying, “Never
mind.  No, we don’t want it.”  Why?  Because Donald Trump thinks it’s
bad for him politically.   
  
Seriously, that’s what he’s saying.  He’s on the phone two nights ago
calling every sen- — every House member he could to vote “no” — and
senator.  He’d rather weaponize the issue than actually solve it.   
  
So, now Republicans have to decide: Who do they serve –Donald Trump or
the American people?  Are there — are they here to solve problems or
just to weaponize the problems for political attacks?   
  
I know my answer, like yours.  We’re here to serve the American people. 
We’re here to solve problems.   
  
Every day between now and November, the American people are going to
know that the only reason the border isn’t secure and we don’t have
access for DREAMers to become citizens and all the rest that I want to
do is Donald Trump and the Republican Party.  And that’s not hyperbole. 
They just flat out made it clear.  
  
They all changed — I can’t imag- — standing up and saying they’re for
this, working through holidays to get it done, busting their necks.  And
then when Donald Trump calls them, they back off, Gov.  They’ve actually
— after saying things even 24 hours earlier, how critical this was, they
back off.  
  
Folks, I promised when I got elected that I’d finally be able to — with
the help of my colleague from New York here — beat big pharmaceutical
companies.  I think everybody should be able to make a decent profit. 
But guess what?  They charge exorbitant prices.  They charge more for
prescription drugs in America than anywhere else in the world.   
  
If you have a prescription, I can — get on Air Force One with me.  I can
take you to London, and you’ll get it for 40 to 60 percent less than it
— the same prescription, same pharmaceutical company.  I can take you to
Berlin, I can take you to Rome, I can take you to all acro- — I can take
you to Toronto, and you’ll pay a hell of a lot less.  I said we’re going
to beat them, and we did.   
  
I was at a town meeting in Northern Virginia, and a very — a very
together lady stood up with her two daughters and said, “My daughters
have <s>stage 2</s> \[Type 1\] diabetes.  They need insulin.  And I — I
have insurance, but I can’t afford what it’s costing me — $700 a month
for two of them.  We have to — we have to cut the insulin.  We have to
share it with them.  They can’t do it.”  
  
My dad used to say, as I said, “A job is about a lot more than a — than
a paycheck.  It’s about your dignity.  It’s about respect.  It’s about
people being able to look you in the eye and treat you as — as an
equal.”   
  
Well, imagine how a parent is deprived of dignity — looking at their
daughter, their husband, their wife, their son and knowing they can’t
even provide — can’t even provide the insulin needed to deal with their
diabetes.  
  
Guess what?  Now it’s $35 a month.  That’s the maximum they’re being
charged.  (Applause.)   
  
We’re also capping the cost of prescription drugs at a maximum of $2,000
a year for people on Medicaid.  And that includes whether you have a —
you’re spending $10-, $12-, $14-, $16,000 a year for cancer-saving
drugs.  It not only saves — this not only saves patients money — and, by
the way, initially when I got it passed, it affected all people, but now
it’s just seniors.  But we’re going to get back the second time around
here and affect everybody.  
  
But here’s the deal.  You know, not only does it save the person who
needs the help, it saves the taxpayer billions of dollars.  This is —
I’m serious.  We don’t think of it this way.   
  
You know how much just what I’ve done so far has cut taxes — cut the
taxpayers’ cost?  One hundred and sixty billion dollars, because
Medicare doesn’t have to pay out those exorbitant costs.  They’re your
tax dollars that are going to Medicare — your tax dollars.  So, we’re
saving $160 billion a year.   
  
Republicans are saying they’re concerned about the deficit.  Give me a
break.  (Laughter.)  Give me a break.  The fact of the matter is they’re
not concerned about the deficit.   
  
You know, we tried to make it a — 35 bucks for everyone, not just
seniors.  But Republicans, as I said, blocked us.  But with your vote in
2024, we’re going to make it happen for everybody in America —
everybody.  It’s going to reduce the federal deficit even more.  
  
You know — if you can hold a second — when we had that last crisis —
they always created these crises.  Did you ever think you’d see a
Republican Congress like this?  I mean, for real.  I never — and I
served a long time in the United States Senate.  
  
Well, what’s happening now, the situation is that you have a
circumstance where they use what is needed for the public but would
benefit whoever is in power.  They use it as a weapon.  Going to deny
that done because it’ll benefit — Biden will look better if this
happens.  That’s not happened before in American politics on a grand
scale.  
  
Look, for example, I promised to help ease accumulated student debt. 
How many of you know of some student who has gone to school, busted
their neck, and ended up with a significant debt they haven’t been able
to pay?  Raise your hand if you know anybody.   
  
Well, guess what?  The Supreme Court said that — that, you know, I
couldn’t do it.  Well, guess what?  I went to work.  I found a way. 
I’ve been able to forgive debt for 3.7 million people — relief in — $130
billion in relief and still counting.   
  
How?  Well, that includes fixing the program pro- — providing relief for
public servants — teachers, nurses, firefighters, social workers — that
existed that wasn’t handled very well by the bureaucracy.  So, I
personally got engaged and made sure it immediat- — it only had
(inaudible) 70,000 people up to that point.  
  
And here’s what we did.  We changed — we made it work.  We — we took the
— all the impediments out of the — out of the — out of the whole
system.  And now I kept my promise.  We are now providing — and, by the
way, there’s more coming.  A lot of student debt is still available for
relief — $25 billion a year.  
  
And you know how we’re going to do it?  I’m sending a — we’re sending a
note now through the Department of Education to everyone who qualifies
through this volunteer work they’ve been doing.  If you pay for 10
years, you’re involved in a social project — whether you’re a cop,
firefighter, et cetera — you’re able to get your debt forgiven after 10
years.  
  
Well, guess what?  We’re going to do that now.  That $25 billion is
going out — the names of people are going to — being sent from the
Department.   
  
And guess what?  One thing I learned from Donald Trump, Gov: My name is
on it.  (Laughter.)  I am saying — (applause) — you qualify — you
qualify, and you must respond, and you’ll get the check.  Folks, it’s a
life changer.   
  
And guess what?  It’s not an expense.  It is an expense, but it wasn’t
going to be paid because they don’t have the money to pay it.  And,
number two, it generates economic growth.  It generates economic
growth.  People have jobs, people are able to get — buy their first
home, be able to buy their first automobile.   
  
And, by the way, I kept my promise that I was going have an
administration, I said, that looked like America.  But I also said I was
going to appoint the first African American woman to the Supreme Court. 
Her name is Justice Ketanji Brown Jackson.  And guess what?  She’s
smarter than all (inaudible).  (Applause.)  
  
All told, I’ve been able to get 175 judges confirmed, including 32
Latino judges, representing a third of all active Latino federal
judges.  (Applause.)  
  
Thanks to the CHIPS and Science Act, which I — you know, they told me
that — you know, we invented that little computer chip — that computer
chip that does everything to deal with atonic — atomic weapons to
automobiles and your cell phone.  We used to make 40 — we invented it,
because of the Moonshot.  We invented it.  We made it soph- — we
sophisticated it.   
  
But when — we used to produce 40 percent of it.  But corporate America
decided it was cheaper to find the cheapest labor you could in the
world, send it over there to be made, and send the product back and
(inaudible).  Or when they had a supply chain problem, it doesn’t come
back at all.  
  
So, I got in a plane.  My staff, I think, thought I was crazy, Gov.  I
got in a plane and went to South Korea.  And I said, “You know, I think
you could do better in the United States.”  And I met with Samsung. 
They’re investing over — going to invest over $100 billion in building
these — these facilities here in the United States.  They built what
they call “fabs.”  They look like great, big stadiums.   
  
And guess what?  You know what the average pay is in those fabs that
make these computer chips?  A hundred and ten thousand dollars a year,
and you don’t need a college degree.  (Applause.)   
  
Well, here’s the deal.  It’s called the CHIPS and Science Act.  New
York’s Hudson Valley is going to become the epicenter of quantum
computing — the most advanced, fastest computing system ever.  That’s
going to transform everything that we create, from new medicines to how
we power artificial intelligence.   
  
Thanks to the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, we’re building a new Hudson
River Tunnel and a — on the Northeast Corridor.  Going to be billions of
dollars — gigantic effort, gigantic input.  It’s a multibillion-dollar
project and one of the biggest, most consequential projects in America. 
And it’s creating thou- — will create thousands of jobs, generating
significant economic growth all across the region.  
  
Just like FDR signed the Rural Electrification Act that provided
electricity to every home and farm because it was necessary at the time,
in the late ‘30s, we’re bridging the affordable high-speed Internet, and
we’re building it everywhere in America.  Because Internet is just as
essential as electricity so your children don’t have to sit in a — in a
McDonald’s parking lot doing their homework.  
  
Businesses are able to thrive.  Farmers and ranchers are able to sell
their products.  It’s critical.  And we’re providing it for millions of
people all across America because of the — of the legislation we
passed.  
  
And, by the way, we’re ripping out every poisonous lead pipe in
America.  Ask any doc here the impact on a child’s brain when they turn
on the faucet and drink water with lead in it.  Every child should be
able to drink clean water without worrying about the brain damage.  And
the cost of ripping out these lead pipes and putting in other pipes is
inpredi- –incredibly expensive, but it’s necessary.  
  
We passed the most si- — significant gun safety law in decades.  I’m not
going to stop, though, until, once again, I’m able to ban assault
weapons in the United States of America.  (Applause.)  I did that once
with Dianne Feinstein, and we’re going to do it again.  
  
We’re saving the planet with the most significant investment in climate
change ever, anywhere in the history of the world — ever.  There’s so
much more we can do together — so much more.  
  
Now imagine the nightmare if Trump is returned to office.  After a
recent deadly school shooting in Perry, Iowa, where two people died and
— a sixth-grader and the school principal — what did Trump say?  This is
what — I’m not making this up.  These are quotes from Trump.  He said —
it’s hard to believe what he said, but he said, just “get over it.”   
  
Just get over it?  What the hell is he doing?  Just “get over it.”  The
pain so many people have suffered as a consequence of indiscriminate
shooting with a hundred rounds in a — I mean, we’re not going to get
over.  We’re going to stop it.   We’re going to stop it.  (Applause.)  
  
Trump and his friends — MAGA friends want to repeal our historic climate
legislation.  And now, after trying and failing more than 60 times,
Trump and his MAGA Republic- (inaudible) are — are — his MAGA friends
are promising again to get rid of the Affordable Care Act, which we just
increased by 200,000 folks — making it available.  
  
By the way, the vast majority of people on the Affordable Care Act have
preexisting conditions.  They could not qualify for insurance, even if
they had the money, if they did not — if — because they have preexisting
conditions.  The law is the only reason that people all over the country
who have these — have preexisting conditions can’t have it taken away. 
Seniors all across America know this.  
  
Trump and his MAGA friends are determined to take away the $35-a-month
insulin, as well as the $2,000 cap on prescription drugs and Social
Security.  And they’re going to — they want to decimate it — they’re
straight about it — decimate Social Security and Medicare.  
  
I don’t know if you remember my State of the Union address, when I
challenged them all on that floor of the United States Congress.  They
said, “No, no, no, we’re not going to do that.”  Well, that’s what
they’re going to do again.   
  
They look at a multibillion-dollar tax cut for people at the top quarter
— 1 percent.  And guess who pays for it?  Guess where comes from?   
  
Trump and his MAG- — and his MAGA friends are determined to take away
your fundamental freedoms.  Voting rights are under attack.  You all
know that, particularly if you are an immigrant from another country.   
  
Trump is bragging about how he overturned Roe v. Wade in the Supreme
Court — a woman’s right to choose.  I’m a practicing Catholic.  I don’t
want abortion on demand, but I thought Roe v. Wade had it right.  The
three trimesters, a doc should be part of it, and then a woman should
have her choice early on.   
  
Well, we’re — they’re now planning a national ban on the right to
choose.  They want every country — every state to get enough votes to
say, “In my state — in my state, you cannot have an abortion under any
circumstance, including whether it’s rape, incest, or regardless of your
age.”  
  
But I made it clear to the MAGA Republicans: If they try to pass a
national ban on the right to choose, I will veto it.  (Applause.)   
  
And if you elect — if you elect me and Kamala, we’re going to take back
the House with a bigger Democratic Senate and restore Roe v. Wade as the
law of the land across the land again.  (Applause.)   
  
Folks, look, let me close with this.  Trump and his friends — his MAGA
friends are dividing us, not uniting us; refusing to accept the results
of legitimate elections; seeking, as Trump says, quote, to “terminate” —
his words, not mine — “terminate” elements of the United States
Constitution — “terminate”; embracing political violence as a legitimate
tool; calling January 6th insurrectionists “patriots” who he’s going to
free, even though a lot of these folks have pled guilty.  
  
You were probably on the floor when that happened.  Police officers
killed.   
  
As I said, I — when I first got elected President, I went to a G7
meeting of the seven heads of state in Europe — in Great Britain.  And I
sat down, and I said, “Well, America is back.”  And the President of
France looked at me and said, “For how long?”  And I never thought of it
this way.  And then Helmut Kohl of Germany looked at me and said, “What
would you say, Mr. President, if you picked up the London Times tomorrow
morning and learned that a thousand people had broken down the doors of
— the doors of the British Parliament, killed some bobbies on the way
in, to deny the rise of their elected Prime Minister to take office?”  
  
It made me think.  What would — what would we think as a nation if that
happened?  
  
This guy is amazing — calling immigrants “vermin” — “vermin” — his
words.  These are words he’s using out loud.  “Vermin” who, quote,
“poison the blood of our country.”  
  
Look, guys, what makes us who we are is we’re the most diverse country
in the world.  We benefit from every background.  That’s why we’re who
we are.  That’s why we’re strong.  That’s America.  He’s threatening our
very democracy.   
  
And, folks, we have to make clear that we will stand with the truth and
we’ll defeat the lies; that we still believe in honesty in America; that
decency, dignity, and respect still matter.  We believe that we’re all
created equal and deserve to be treated equally throughout our lives.   
  
We leave nobody behind.  We — we believe everybody deserves just a fair
shot — just a shot.  And we give hate no safe harbor.  That’s what
America has been.  
  
Folks, we believe in America.  And when we do that, we’ll be able to
look back and say something few generations have been able to say: When
American democracy was at risk — and it is at risk — like it is now, we
saved it.  That’s what they’ll write about.  We saved it.  
  
We just have to remember who we are.  We’re the United States of
America, for God’s sake.  (Applause.)  There is nothing — there is
nothing at all that’s beyond our capacity when we act together.   
  
We’re the only nation in the history of the world that’s come out of
every crisis stronger than we went into that crisis.  That’s who we
are.  We never give up.  We never give in.  We never bend.  We never
bow.   
  
We are the United States of America, and let’s act like it.  Let’s make
sure he doesn’t come back.  (Applause.)  
  
Thank you very much.  Appreciate it.  
  
AUDIENCE:  Four more years!  Four more years!  Four more years!

5:09 P.M. EST
