---
date: '2024-02-22'
modified_time: 2024-02-23 13:44:25-05:00
published_time: 2024-02-22 21:43:00-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/02/22/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-in-press-gaggle-grand-rapids-mi/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris in Press Gaggle | Grand Rapids,\_MI"
---
 
*Della Soul Records  
Grand Rapids, Michigan*  

4:29 P.M. EST  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT: So, let me start by saying I am so happy to support
a local small business. And this is an example of the many small
businesses that I have visited around the country where you have
individuals who have — they’re inspired by an idea, they are inspired by
understanding how they can make a difference in a community.  
  
I have always found — and here is no different — that you have somebody
who is a business leader but is also a civic leader who is engaged in
the community — she has the intention of building a community garden
next door.  She is hiring locally.  And that’s really part of the
backbone of who we are as a country but also of — of our economy.  
  
And the President and I believe very much in building a broad-based
economy, and this is an example of how we do that: supporting small
businesses.  
  
And so, I know you want to know what I bought.  So, you want to know
that I got the George Clinton doll.  Does everybody know who George
Clinton is?  Do you know P-Funk?   
  
No?  Okay.  Well, there is lessons to be taught, like Bootsy Collins. 
Anybody know who Bootsy Collins is?   
  
Okay.  So, there’s some education that needs to be done.  I can see
that.  
  
I got a Miles Davis album and then a couple of cards.  
  
Now, as — you have now asked about the women of Alabama.  The decision
by the court in Alabama is shocking and, at the same time, post the
Dobbs decision, not surprising.  I talked about it from the beginning,
when the Dobbs decision came down, that we were looking at what
potentially would be the beginning of the erosion of so many fundamental
rights — in particular, around reproductive freedom.  
  
And so, we have seen that states around our country have taken
everything from an individual’s ability to make decisions about their
own body to access to reproductive healthcare, limiting how people can
get access to reproductive healthcare in — in very substantial ways. 
We’ve seen clinics close, things of that nature.  We have seen laws that
would criminalize doctors and nurses, provide up to prison for life for
administering reproductive healthcare.  
  
And — and we knew that IVF was always very much on the table.  And so,
what we have seen now Alabama is — sure enough, it has now been
attacked, and the access to reproductive healthcare through IVF is being
taken from countless individuals and families.  
  
And this is about an individual’s right, but it also affects entire
families.  And the irony of it all is that, on the one hand, these
proponents are — are suggesting that an individual and a woman does not
have the right to end an unwanted pregnancy and, on the other hand, does
not have the right to become pregnant if that is her choice and her
desire and her dream.  
  
So, I think that everyone should understand we each have a
responsibility and the ability to change this trajectory.  And elections
matter.   
  
President Biden has been very clear: If Congress puts back in place the
rights that the Court took away, that — which means putting back in
place the protections of Roe v. Wade — Joe Biden will sign it.   
  
So, elections matter.  
  
                          END                      4:32 P.M. EST
