---
date: '2024-02-16'
published_time: 2024-02-16 23:24:57-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/02/16/remarks-by-president-biden-on-supporting-the-community-in-east-palestine-ohio-east-palestine-oh/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden on Supporting the Community in East Palestine,\
  \ Ohio | East Palestine,\_OH"
---
 
Brave Industries  
East Palestine, Ohio

4:39 P.M. EST  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Good afternoon, folks.  Mayor Conaway, thank you for the
welcome and, more importantly, for your leadership.  I really mean it. 
We talked outside there.  
  
MAYOR CONAWAY:  Thank you, sir.  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  You’ve been through hell.  
  
And I also want to thank the EPA Administrator here with me, EPA
Administrator Regan, as well.  
  
We just concluded a briefing about the herculean efforts — and that’s
not a hyperbole — the herculean efforts that were made in the year since
this tragedy.  But what’s happening in the morning, the evening of, and
the next day and the weeks following is amazing.  It’s absolutely
amazing what this community rose to.  
  
You know, I — I want to thank the folks of East Palestine to know — I
want them to understand that we’re not going home, no matter what, until
this job is done.  And it’s not done yet.  There’s a lot more to do. 
The vast majority has been done, but we’re going to stay until the very
end, every need is met.  
  
And I want to — we continue to hold Norfolk Southern accountable and
make sure they make your community whole now and in the future.  And
what they do not make whole, what they cannot make whole, what isn’t
made — the government will make whole.  We have an obligation.  We have
an obligation.  
  
I can already see this derailment won’t define you.  It just — it
defined you in a different way: your courage, the resilience of this
community, and the compassion that you’ve shown for all your fellow
citizens.  
  
Let me be clear: While there are acts of God, this was an act of greed
that was 100 percent preventable.  Let me say it again: an act of greed
that was 100 percent preventable.  We were pushing railroads to take
more precautions, to deal with braking, to deal with a whole range of
things that were not dealt with.  Norfolk Southern failed its
responsibility.   
  
You know, multimillion-dollar railroad companies transporting toxic
chemicals have responsibility to do it safely.  And, again, Norfolk
Southern failed.  
  
My administration was on the ground within hours, working closely with
the governor, the mayor, the senators, the house members, community
leaders to make sure you have everything you need.    
  
My administration ordered Norfolk Southern to clean up the mess it
created and ensure it was done right.  That includes an executive order
I signed to continue our priority to hold Norfolk Southern fully
accountable for this disaster and any long-term effects that are able to
be identified as time goes on — not just here but also in Darlington,
Pennsylvania, where I just visited a few hours ago — an hour or so
ago.   
  
Working with the state, we’ve tested the air, the water, the soil
quality; deployed teams of health experts; provided emergency loans for
local businesses.  But it’s not done yet.  There’s more to do.  
  
Today, I’m announcing the award of six National Institutes of Health
grants to some of America’s best research universities to study the
short- and long-term impacts of what happened here.  That includes just
north of here at Case Western University, so you’ll have a top
researcher with you as long as you need, as long as has to go on.   
  
I also want to restate my support for the bipartisan rail safety la- —
bill — Senator Brown, Senator Vance, and the congressman from
Pennsylvania and others — that require stronger protective measures when
trains are carrying hazardous waste.   
  
Storage tank cars — we argued about this for years.  They should be
stronger.  They should be able to survive crashes without exploding.   
  
Unda- — un- — <s>undated</s> \[updated\] brakes that meet higher safety
standards.  The fact of the matter is, there was a lot of discussion
ahead of time, before this occurred, about the safety of the braking
systems of many of these railroads — trains.   
  
More staffing on trains so that there are more people to respond
immediately to a crash and to do so much more (inaudible) safety of
transportation.   
  
And it’s important that the Senate follow the House and pass the tax
reform bill, which makes sure that folks who don’t get hit with a tax —
a surprise tax bill for compensation owed them by the railroad, that
it’s not taxable income to them.  We’ve got to make sure that that
occur, that no one is taxed for anything that is reimbursed or received
from Norfolk Southern.   
  
It’s not right.  I support the ta- — this tax reform bill, and we’ve got
to get it done.   
  
All told, we’ve done in one year what would ty- — typically take many
years, and we’re going to keep going.   
  
Like I said, your compassion and resilience of leadership of this
community and the people of this community — the courage of your
firefighters, law enforcement officers, first responders who run into
danger to save others — they deserve the care and resources we owe them
to be followed and their health needs followed as well.  Because that’s
what we do.   
  
It doesn’t matter if you’re a Democrat, a Republican, or an
independent.  What matters is we’re all Americans — everyone, everyone. 
We look out for one another.  We leave no one behind.  And we come back
stronger than before.    
  
That’s what you’re doing here.  That’s what’s happening right here in
this community.  That’s what’s going on downtown, in your parks as
well.  You’re now — your downtown is reopened and the parks are
reopened.  Students were frustrated opposing schools wouldn’t travel
here for sports events, but now you’re playing home games again,
finally.   
  
That’s pride.  That’s also progress.   
  
But we have other obligation, and that’s here — to stay here as long as
it takes to get everything done and be sure no one is left behind.  
  
In moments like this, let’s remember who we are.  We’re the United
States of America, for God’s sake.  We have obligations to one another. 
There’s nothing beyond our capacity when we do it together.  And we’re
going to stay here and do it together as long as it takes.  
  
May God bless you all and may God protect our troops.  
  
We have a lot to do.  
  
Now, let me turn this over to EPA Administrator, Michael Regan, and
he’ll have a few things to say as well.   
  
Michael.  
  
4:46 P.M. EST
