---
date: '2024-02-16'
modified_time: 2024-02-16 15:42:14-05:00
published_time: 2024-02-16 15:42:13-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/02/16/remarks-by-president-biden-on-the-reported-death-of-aleksey-navalny/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden on the Reported Death of Aleksey\_Navalny"
---
 
Roosevelt Room

12:37 P.M. EST  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Good afternoon.  I — I’m heading off to East Palestine
in — in a moment, but I wanted to say a few things this morning about
Aleksey Navalny.  
  
You know, like millions of people around the world, I am literally both
not surprised and outraged by the news — the reported death of Aleksey
Navalny.  
  
He bravely stood up to the corruption, the violence, and the — the — all
the — all the bad things that the Putin government was doing.   
  
In response, Putin had him poisoned.  He had him arrested.  He had him
prosecuted for fabricated crimes.  He sentenced him to prison.  He was
held in isolation.  Even all that didn’t stop him from calling out
Putin’s lies.  Even in prison, he was a powerful voice of the truth,
which is kind of amazing when you think about it.  
  
And he could have lived safely in exile after the assassination attempt
on him in 2020 — which nearly killed him, I might add.  And — but he —
he was traveling outside the country at the time.  Instead, he returned
to Russia.  He returned to Russia knowing he’d likely be imprisoned or
even killed if he continued his work.  But he did it anyway, because he
believed so deeply in his country — in Russia.    
  
Reports of his death, if they’re true — and I have no reason to believe
they’re not — Russian authorities are going to tell their own story. 
But make no mistake — make no mistake, Putin is responsible for
Navalny’s death.  Putin is responsible.    
  
What has happened to Navalny is yet more proof of Putin’s brutality.  No
one should be fooled — not in Russia, not at home, not anywhere in the
world.  Putin does not only target <s>his</s> \[the\] citizens of other
countries, as we’ve seen what’s going on in Ukraine right now, he also
inflicts terrible crimes on his own people.   
  
And as people across Russia and around the world are mourning Navalny
today because he was so many things that Putin was not: He was brave. 
He was principled.  He was dedicated to building a Russia where the rule
of law existed and of — where it applied to everybody.  Navalny believed
in that Russia — that Russia.  He knew it was a cause worth fighting for
and, obviously, even dying for.    
  
This tragedy reminds us of the stakes of this moment.  We have to
provide the funding so Ukraine can keep defending itself against Putin’s
vicious onslaughts and war crimes.   
  
You know, there was a bipartisan Senate vote that passed overwhelmingly
in the United States Senate to fund Ukraine.   
  
Now, as I’ve said before, and I mean this in the literal sense: History
is watching.  History is watching the House of Representatives.  The
failure to support Ukraine at this critical moment will never be
forgotten.  It’s going to go down in the pages of history.  It really
is.  It’s consequential.  
  
And the clock is ticking.  And this has to happen.  We have to help
now.  You know, we have to realize what we’re dealing with with
Putin.   
  
All of us should reject the dangerous statements made by the previous
president that invited Russia to invade our NATO Allies if they weren’t
paying up.  He said if an Ally did not pay their dues, he’d encourage
Russia to, quote, “Do whatever the hell they want.”   
  
I — let me — I guess I should clear my mind here a little bit and not
say what I’m really thinking.   
  
But let me be clear: This is an outrageous thing for a president to
say.  I can’t fathom.  I can’t fathom.  From Truman on, they’re rolling
over in their graves hearing this.  
  
As long as I’m President, America stands by our sacred commitment to our
NATO Allies as they have stood by their commitments to us repeatedly.   
  
Putin and the whole world should know: If any adversary were to attack
us, our NATO Allies would back us.  And if Putin were to attack a NATO
Ally, the United States will defend every inch of NATO territory.  Now
is the time for even greater unity among our NATO Allies to stand up to
the threat that Putin’s Russia poses.  
  
You know, I send my deepest condolences to Aleksey’s staff and
supporters who are going to continue his work despite this loss, despite
all of Putin’s desperate attempts to stamp out the opposition.   
  
And most of all, to his family, especially to his wife, his daughter,
and his son, who have already sacrificed so much for their family and a
shared dream for a better future for Russia.   
  
So, I just want to say God bless Aleksey Navalny.  His courage will not
be forgotten.  And I’m sure it will not be the only courage we see
coming out of Russia in the near term.   
  
Thank you.  I’ll be happy to take a couple questions.  
  
Q    Sir, first, was this an assassination?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  The answer is, I — we don’t know exactly what happened,
but there is no doubt that the death of Navalny was a consequence of
something that Putin and his — and his thugs did.   
  
Q    And to be clear, you warned Vladimir Putin when you were in Geneva
of “devastating” consequences if Navalny died in Russian custody.  What
consequences should he and Russia face?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  That was three years ago.  In the meantime, they faced a
hell of a lot of consequences.  They’ve lost and/or had wounded over
350,000 Russian soldiers.  They’ve made it into a position where they’ve
been subjected to great sanctions across the board.  And we’re
contemplating what else could be done.   
  
But the — the — what we were talking about at the time there were no
actions being taken against Russia.  And that — look at all that’s
transpired since then.  
  
Q    Can you say whether you’re —  
  
Q    How do you think this —  
  
Q    — whether you’re looking at increasing sanctions on Russia right
now?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  We’re looking at a whole number of options.  That’s all
I’ll say right now.  
  
Q    Is there anything you can do to get ammunition to the Ukrainians
without the supplemental from Congress?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  No, but it’s about time they step up — don’t you think?
— instead of going on a two-week vacation.  Two weeks they’re walking
away.  Two weeks.  What are they thinking?  My God, this is bizarre.   
  
And it’s just reinforcing all the concern and — and almost — I won’t say
“panic,” but real concern about the United States being a reliable
ally.  This is outrageous.   
  
Q    Are you more confident now that you’ll get the Ukraine aid given
what’s happened today?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Well, I hope to God it helps.  But I mean, the idea we
need anything more to get the Ukraine aid — I mean, — I mean, this is —
in light of a former president’s statement that — saying Russia, if — if
they haven’t paid their dues to us, go get them.   
  
Come on.  What are these guys doing?  What are they doing?  
  
Q    Sir, how concerned are you about the anti-satellite capability that
Russia is developing?  And what is your administration planning to do in
response?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  First of all, there is no nuclear threat to the people
of America or anywhere else in the world with what Russia is doing at
the moment.  Number one.  
  
Number two, anything that they’re doing and/or they will do relates to
satellites and space and damaging those satellites, potentially.   
  
Number three, I — there is no evidence that they have made a decision to
go forward with doing anything in space either.  So, what we found out:
There was a capacity to launch a system into space that could
theoretically do something that was damaging.  Hadn’t happened yet.  And
my expect- — I — my hope is it will not.   
  
Q    Mr. President, just quickly —  
  
AIDE:  Thank you all.  Thank you.  
  
(Cross-talk.)   
  
Q    Quickly, Mr. President, have —  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  I’ll — I’ll take one more.  
  
Q    Thank you, Mr. President.  Switching gears for a moment.  Have the
Israelis presented a credible evacuation plan for the nearly 1.5 million
displaced Palestinians sheltering in Rafah?  And what would the
consequences be for Israel if they move ahead with a full-scale ground
invasion without clear measures to protect civilians there?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Well, first of all, I’ve had extensive conversations
with the Prime Minister of Israel over the last several days — almost an
hour each.  And I’ve made the case — and I feel very strongly about it —
that there has to be a — a  
temporary ceasefire to get the prisoners out, to get the hostages out. 
And that is underway.  I’m still hopeful that that can be done.   
  
And in the meantime, I don’t anticipate — I’m hoping that that you —
that the Israelis will not make any massive land invasion in the
meantime.  So, it’s my expectation that’s not going to happen.   
  
There has to be a ceasefire temporarily to get those hostages — and, by
the way, there are — we’re in a situation where there are American
hostages, American citizens that are being held hostage.  It’s not just
— not just Israelis; it’s American hostages as well.   
  
And, you know, my hope and expectation is that we’ll get this hostage
deal.  We’ll bring the Americans home.  And the deal is been negotiated
now, and we’re going to see where it takes us.  
  
(Cross-talk.)  
  
Q    An FBI — an FBI informant — an FBI informant at the center of the
impeachment inquiry into you has been indicted for allegedly lying. 
Your reaction to that, and should the inquiry be dropped?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  He is lying, and it should be dropped.  And it’s just
been a — it’s been an outrageous effort from the beginning.  What he did
—  
  
(Cross-talk.)   
  
THE PRESIDENT:  No, I’m serious.  
  
(Cross-talk.)   
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you.  Thank you, all.   
  
See you in Ohio.   
  
12:47 P.M. EST
