---
date: '2024-02-22'
published_time: 2024-02-22 20:26:58-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/02/22/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-before-roundtable-conversation-on-the-national-fight-for-reproductive-freedoms-tour-grand-rapids-mi/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris Before Roundtable Conversation on the National\
  \ \u201CFight for Reproductive Freedoms\u201D Tour | Grand Rapids,\_MI"
---
 
*Fountain Street Church  
Grand Rapids, Michigan*

2:11 P.M. EST

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Governor.  (Applause.)  Thank you, thank
you, thank you.   
  
Let me start by thanking the governor.  The last time I saw you, we were
together at my home.  And your leadership in this state and your
national leadership has been extraordinary.  And you and I have been
talking about many issues over the years in our collective fight to
secure the rights and the freedoms of the American people.  
  
And you and your legislature — the Michigan legislature have been
extraordinary and a real role model for the country about what
leadership looks like on this and so many other issues.  So, it’s my
honor and pleasure to be with you, Governor.   
  
I also want to recognize Senator Stabenow, who I had the great honor of
working with in the United States Senate.  I think Michigan knows the
senator well, but she really is extraordinary.  She is such a fighter. 
I worked with her — I — everybody is laughing because they know her,
right?  (Laughter.)    
  
Debbie Stabenow, I’m telling you, whether the cameras are on or whether
they’re off, she’s the same person.  She cares so deeply about the
working people of America, the women of America.  And you’ve been a dear
friend to the President and me and such a courageous national leader, as
well as a leader here in Michigan, Debbie.  So, thank you.  It’s great
to be with you.   
  
And Representative Scholten, today is her birthday.  (Laughter and
applause.)  I will not lead the press in singing “Happy Birthday” to
you.  (Laughter.)  But I — I want to thank you as well for your courage
in the United States Congress and the work you are doing on this and so
many other issues.   
  
The congresswoman also, as we were — she — she honored me by driving in
from the airport with me to — to be here at the church today, Reverend,
and made a point of looking out the window and telling me everything
that she would like to make sure that we are addressing from Washington,
D.C.  (Laughter.)  So, she is definitely doing the people’s work.   
  
And — and to all the leaders who are here, I thank you, each of you. 
The Administrator, I want to thank you always.  
  
ADMINISTRATOR BROOKS-LASURE:  Yes, thank you.  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Freedom is fundamental to the promise of America. 
And what we saw over a year ago is the highest court in our land, the
United States Supreme Court — the Court of Thurgood and RBG — took a
constitutional right that had been recognized from the people of
America, from the women of America.   
  
And since that ruling came down, we have seen states across our country
— thankfully, not Michigan — but states across our country proposing and
passing laws that criminalize doctors and nurses.  Some provide for
prison for life for healthcare professionals providing reproductive care
to their patients.   
  
We have seen laws being passed that make no exception even for rape and
incest, which means these so-called leaders who are extremists are
telling a survivor of a crime of violence to someone’s body — a survivor
of a violation to their body that they — that survivor — have no right
to make a decision about what happens to their body next, which, in my
opinion, is immoral.   
  
We know that, on this issue, the American people — the majority of
American people agree with the leaders at this table, by the way, which
is that one does not have to give up or — or in any way abandon their
faith or deeply held beliefs to agree the government should not be
telling her what to do with her body.  If she chooses, she will consult
with her priest, her pastor, her rabbi, her imam.  But it should not be
the government telling people what to do with their bodies.   
  
And what we have seen on this issue is, over the course of now a year
and almost a half, people who are suffering every day in our country as
a result of this.   
  
So, not only is it about freedoms that have been taken and what that
means in a country that prides itself on being a democracy that upholds
and fights for freedoms and liberty.  It means that in states across our
country, people have been suffering.   
  
And we must be explicit about what that is, because this is not a
hypothetical point.   
  
Women have been giving — having miscarriages in toilets in our country,
have been denied access to emergency care because of what has been
happening.   
  
And then, as the governor said most recently, putting access to IVF at
risk.  Think about that.  Individuals, couples who want to start a
family are now being deprived of access to what can help them start a
family.   
  
So, on the one hand, the proponents are saying that an individual
doesn’t have a right to end an unwanted pregnancy and, on the other
hand, the individual does not have a right to start a family.   
  
And the hypocrisy abounds on this issue when you also consider that in
the top 10 states with maternal mortality, there are abortion bans.  I
have often challenged the folks in those states who propose to say that
an abortion ban is in the best interest of women and children.  Ask them
why have they been so silent on an issue like maternal mortality, where,
in our country, Black women are three to four times more likely to die
in connection with childbirth than other women; Native women, twice as
likely; women in rural America, similarly, more likely.  
  
So, this is an issue that is about fundamental freedoms and liberty. 
And it is an issue about harm — real harm that is happening to people
every day in our country.  And one must then ask, “Well, okay, how did
this happen?”  And I would say: Ask who’s to blame.  And I’ll answer
that question.   
  
When you look at the fact that the previous President of the United
States was clear in his intention to handpick three Supreme Court
justices who would overturn the protections of Roe v. Wade, and he did
it.  And that’s what got us to this point today.  
  
And that same individual, the previous President of the United States,
then openly talks about how he is proud of what has resulted.  Proud of
the fact that doctors and nurses can be jailed for giving reproductive
care?  Proud of the fact that women are being forced into situations
where they could — literally, their life is at stake in terms of having
a miscarriage and not being able to have the — the medically required
treatment?  Proud of the fact that so many young women in America now
have fewer rights than their mothers and grandmothers?  
  
So, this is a very real issue.  And I thank, again, the governor and the
Michigan legislature for all you have done.   
  
But do understand: The people of Michigan cannot sit back and take
comfort without also understanding that elections matter and that there
is a full-on, concerted effort to pass a national ban, which would mean
the people of Michigan would not be as safe.   
  
And so, let’s understand the connection between all of these issues and
the responsibility and the role that we each have to protect these
fundamental freedoms and — and the people of America to be able to make
decisions about their own lives and — and the future of their family.  
  
And, with that, I want to thank everyone again.  And I’m going to turn
it over to Representative Scholten to moderate our discussion.  
  
END                 2:30 P.M. EST
