---
date: '2024-02-15'
modified_time: 2024-02-15 08:09:22-05:00
published_time: 2024-02-15 08:45:00-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/02/15/remarks-by-national-economic-advisor-lael-brainard-todays-strong-recovery-is-laying-solid-foundations-for-the-future/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by National Economic Advisor Lael Brainard: Today\u2019s Strong Recovery\
  \ Is Laying Solid Foundations for the\_Future"
---
 
*At the 40th Annual NABE Economic Policy Conference*

*As Prepared for Delivery*

It is a pleasure to join NABE in its annual assessment. It is a good
moment to assess our economy’s recovery. There is broad agreement that
the strong U.S. recovery has exceeded expectations following the
devastation of the pandemic and the Putin price shock to food and
energy. Beyond this, there are preliminary indications the recovery is
laying strong foundations for the future—with business dynamism, labor
force engagement, and key categories of business fixed investment
exceeding pre-pandemic trends—catalyzed by President Biden’s historic
legislation.

**Today’s Recovery  
**  
The U.S. economy is healthier today than was forecast just one year ago,
stronger than the same stage of previous recoveries, and better on
growth and inflation than our peers. There has been a large decline in
inflation toward its 2 percent target alongside solid growth and low
unemployment. Indeed,
[headline](https://fred.stlouisfed.org/series/DPCERL1Q225SBEA) and
[core](https://fred.stlouisfed.org/series/PCEPILFE) PCE inflation have
been around 2 percent for the past half year. Inflation has declined
even as growth was around 3 percent over the year, and unemployment
remained below 4 percent for 2 years, the longest stretch since the
1960s.  
Looking to history, we have never had a year where inflation has
declined this fast, alongside robust growth and a stable, low
unemployment rate. Remember the Bloomberg headline of October 2022:
[*Forecast for US Recession Within Year Hits
100%*](https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2022-10-17/forecast-for-us-recession-within-year-hits-100-in-blow-to-biden)?
Just one year ago, forecasters simply did not believe inflation could
fall by this much without a jump in the unemployment rate.

Rather than necessitating the output and employment costs associated
with the Phillips Curve, as some anticipated, the resolution of a
perfect storm of [supply
shocks](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/cea/written-materials/2023/11/30/disinflation-explanation-supply-demand-and-their-interaction/)
and other pandemic distortions bears primary responsibility for the
rapid decline in inflation. In part, this reflects the Administration’s
efforts in partnership with the private sector to fix broken [supply
chains](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/11/27/fact-sheet-president-biden-announces-new-actions-to-strengthen-americas-supply-chains-lower-costs-for-families-and-secure-key-sectors/)
in areas like [ocean
shipping](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/02/28/fact-sheet-lowering-prices-and-leveling-the-playing-field-in-ocean-shipping/),
[trucking](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/12/16/fact-sheet-the-biden-%E2%81%A0harris-administration-trucking-action-plan-to-strengthen-americas-trucking-workforce/),
[semiconductors](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/08/09/fact-sheet-one-year-after-the-chips-and-science-act-biden-harris-administration-marks-historic-progress-in-bringing-semiconductor-supply-chains-home-supporting-innovation-and-protecting-national-s/),
and [at the
ports](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/11/09/fact-sheet-the-biden-harris-action-plan-for-americas-ports-and-waterways/)
as distortions unwound. As [supply chain
pressures](https://www.newyorkfed.org/research/policy/gscpi#/overview)
fell from record highs to pre-pandemic lows, disinflation followed close
behind, and the United States experienced both a [stronger recovery and
faster
disinflation](https://home.treasury.gov/news/featured-stories/the-us-economic-recovery-in-international-context-2023)
than our peers.

**Foundations for the Future  
**  
More broadly, the U.S. recovery has seen improvements relative to
pre-pandemic trends in labor market expansion, business dynamism and key
categories of business fixed investment, reflecting the President’s
economic plan. These improvements augur well for future potential growth
and help lay the foundation for achieving the President’s goal of more
durable and broadly shared economic growth over the long-term.

*First, business dynamism has risen*. There’s a small-business boom
taking root across America. Sixteen million [business
applications](https://fred.stlouisfed.org/series/BABATOTALSAUS) have
been filed since the President took office, making these the strongest
three years on record for new business applications in 20 years. Out of
this surge in entrepreneurship, many applications are leading to new
businesses hiring workers. That’s especially true for small businesses,
which have added an average of 739,000 new jobs each quarter since the
President entered office. Women and minority owned businesses have
played an important role in this surge as well.

President Biden secured unparalleled support for small businesses and
startups through
[dozens](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/12/20/fact-sheet-president-biden-to-highlight-how-his-investing-in-america-agenda-has-led-to-a-black-small-business-boom/)
of initiatives, ranging from expanding access to credit and federal
procurement to ensuring universal access to high speed internet.

In the decades preceding the pandemic, [business
dynamism](https://www.aeaweb.org/articles?id=10.1257/aer.20190680), in
particular new business entry and job reallocations, were declining.
Prior research drew a connection between this and dampened aggregate
[productivity
growth](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S0304393217301113)
as the economy shifted toward [fewer young, small, and innovative
firms](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S0014292116300125).
Since the pandemic, new business entrants are increasing, especially
outside central business districts, and we are seeing more workers being
hired by
[smaller](https://www.federalreserve.gov/econres/notes/feds-notes/business-entry-and-exit-in-the-covid-19-pandemic-a-preliminary-look-at-official-data-20220506.html)
and [new
firms](https://www.brookings.edu/wp-content/uploads/2023/09/4_Decker-Haltiwanger_unembargoed.pdf?mod=djemRTE_h).
This is a sign of confidence in the economy and, if sustained, could
yield returns over the longer term.

*Second, the strong labor market recovery has drawn more people into the
labor force and led to a substantial reallocation of jobs and workers*.
In February 2021, as President Biden was taking office, the
Congressional Budget Office (CBO) projected that unemployment would be
at [4.6
percent](https://www.cbo.gov/system/files/2021-02/56965-Economic-Outlook.pdf)
at the end of 2023. Instead, unemployment has been [below 4
percent](https://fred.stlouisfed.org/series/UNRATE) for two years
running, thanks to this Administration’s actions.

Many economists worry about permanent labor market scarring effect
associated with deep recessions. It seems likely that this recovery
avoided much of the scarring associated with past recessions, as the
[employment level](https://fred.stlouisfed.org/series/PAYEMS), [labor
force participation rate](https://fred.stlouisfed.org/series/CIVPART),
and level of [real GDP](https://fred.stlouisfed.org/series/GDPC1) are
higher now than the CBO projected even before the pandemic, in January
2020.

In addition to supporting a strong labor market recovery through the
American Recovery Plan, the Administration’s efforts helped enable labor
supply to expand to meet demand. [Prime age labor force
participation](https://fred.stlouisfed.org/series/LNS11300060) has
continuously exceeded its pre-pandemic level since February 2023, just
three years after the pandemic downturn began, while it took more than
12 years to reach its prior peak after the global financial crisis.

[Administration
policies](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/cea/written-materials/2023/11/07/child-care-stabilization/)
enabled record numbers of people to come back into the labor
force—including by providing vital support for [child
care](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/11/Child-Care-Stabilization.pdf)
and other support to household balance sheets. [Prime age employment for
women](https://www.hamiltonproject.org/publication/post/prime-age-women-are-going-above-and-beyond-in-the-labor-market-recovery/)
was at its highest level on record for much of 2023, reflecting shifts
in work patterns coming out of the pandemic as well as the President’s
support for child care.

There has been substantial
[reallocation](https://pubs.aeaweb.org/doi/pdfplus/10.1257/pandp.20211110)
of [jobs and
workers](https://www.brookings.edu/wp-content/uploads/2023/09/4_Decker-Haltiwanger_unembargoed.pdf?mod=djemRTE_h)—with
high rates of job switching leading to stronger real wage growth, new
skills, and upgraded opportunities.

While the data is volatile, [strong productivity
growth](https://fred.stlouisfed.org/series/PRS85006092) over the last
year has returned productivity to its pre-pandemic trend after declining
earlier in the business cycle. Meanwhile, productivity growth measured
as output per worker has outpaced all other G7 economies in this cycle
so far.

The combination of inflation coming down alongside a strong job market
has led to measurable gains for household balance sheets. This has been
the [strongest recovery on
record](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/02/13/statement-from-president-joe-biden-on-the-january-consumer-price-index/)
for real wage growth in over 50 years with real wages rising a
cumulative 3.4% over the business cycle. We have also seen the [largest
increase in median wealth on
record](https://www.federalreserve.gov/publications/files/scf23.pdf), up
37% from 2019. And, unlike in prior recoveries, households were able to
[lower credit card and student loan debt
payments](https://www.federalreserve.gov/econres/scfindex.htm).

*Finally, business investment has been strong*. Together, President
Biden’s signature legislative achievements—the Bipartisan Infrastructure
Law (BIL), CHIPS and Science Act, and Inflation Reduction Act
(IRA)—represent the most significant public commitment to [investing in
America](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/invest/?utm_source=invest.gov) in a
generation. Even after President Biden had signed his historic Investing
in America laws, professional forecasters projected non-residential
fixed investment would stagnate in 2023. Instead, [non-residential fixed
investment](https://fred.stlouisfed.org/series/PNFIC1#0) grew by 4.1% in
real terms last year, including the [largest
contribution](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/cea/written-materials/2024/01/25/q4-gdp-advance-estimate-context-for-todays-strong-report/)
on record from manufacturing. In fact, inflation-adjusted [manufacturing
construction](https://www.census.gov/construction/c30/c30index.html)
spending has more than doubled in the United States, and
inflation-adjusted construction of computer, electronic, and electrical
manufacturing facilities has increased by more than 1,000% since
President Biden took office.

The increase in investment is strong relative to prior economic cycles.
Four years after the global financial crisis, businesses investment had
not recovered, in contrast with the current cycle, which has seen real
[businesses investment](https://fred.stlouisfed.org/series/GPDIC1) up by
10% and [non-residential fixed
investment](https://fred.stlouisfed.org/series/PNFIC1#0) up by even
more. Compared to our G7 peers, U.S. gross private domestic investment
has outpaced nearly all other economies.

This is in contrast to the previous administration’s unconditional
corporate tax cuts in the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (TCJA) in 2017. NABE
Surveys found that only 4 percent of businesses said they had redirected
hiring and investment to the United States in response to the 2017 TCJA
tax cuts, whereas 83 percent of goods-producing businesses reported they
had redirected hiring or investment to the United States in response to
the IRA, and 16 percent of businesses overall.

There is also preliminary evidence that investment is increasing in
communities that have previously been left behind—consistent with the
President’s commitment to investing in all of America. For instance, the
Treasury Department found that more than [70% of clean energy
investments](https://home.treasury.gov/news/featured-stories/the-inflation-reduction-act-a-place-based-analysis)
announced since the Inflation Reduction Act are going to communities
with below-average median household incomes, college graduation rates,
and employment-to-population ratios.  
**  
Conclusion  
**  
The evidence is increasingly clear that we have achieved a strong,
broad-based recovery, while inflation has fallen rapidly towards its 2
percent target. Current improvements in business dynamism, labor force
engagement, and investment could lay the foundation for durable, broadly
shared economic growth over the longer term. In the President’s words,
this is the kind of bottom up, middle out growth that provides working
families more breathing room and more opportunity.

\###
