---
date: '2024-02-16'
published_time: 2024-02-16 17:56:00-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/02/16/remarks-as-prepared-for-delivery-by-first-lady-jill-biden-at-a-career-connected-learning-round-table/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks as Prepared for Delivery by First Lady Jill\_Biden at a Career-Connected\
  \ Learning Round\_Table"
---
 
Green Bay, WI

Thank you, Miguel. Joe promised he would choose a Secretary of Education
who came from the classroom and we could not have asked for a better one
than you.

And it’s amazing to be here with another educator: Governor Evers.
You’ve been a remarkable leader for this state. Joe and I are grateful
for your partnership and we can’t wait to host you and Kathy at the
White House next week for the National Governor’s Association Meeting.

Mayor Genrick, thank you for welcoming me to your wonderful city once
again – and for all you do for this community.

Chairman Hill, thank you for taking the time to be with us today.

I’m in Green Bay today because something special is happening here,
something transformative. And we want other parts of the state and
country to follow your example.

You elected my husband, President Biden, because he wanted to rebuild
the middle class. But what does that look like? And how do you do it?

It looks like what’s happening here. Where President Biden and state
leaders are transforming education, reimagining middle school and high
school classrooms and turning them into places where students can try
out different careers, explore their interests, and discover how to turn
those interests into good-paying jobs. It looks like classrooms that
aren’t only traditional spaces with desks, but that are kitchens where
students learn culinary skills…greenhouses where students learn how to
grow vegetables and plants…metal shops and fabrication labs, where
students learn how to build things.

A curriculum that combines learning in a school with hands-on learning;
real-world experience working at a credit union or in the city parks
department or at a hospital.

This is what it means to prepare students for careers. And when done
well, hundreds of students graduate each year with the skills they need
to fill the jobs that pay well and are right here, in their hometown.

Nearly 60 percent of graduating high school students don’t go directly
to a four-year college. Six out of every ten students. Some will start
working. Some will go to community or technical colleges. Some won’t
know what they want to do next.

That’s why our education system needs to adapt, it needs to transform.

You’re leading that change here in Northeast Wisconsin. Thank you. I
know it takes an entire community – it takes partners like the Green Bay
Chamber, and local businesses like Bellin Health…it takes school leaders
like Sara Greenwood and Mike Snowberry. It takes a governor like
Governor Evers, and a mayor, like Mayor Genrick, who are supporting
career-connected learning. And it takes students, like Katelyn and Adam
and Mason, who are taking advantage of these opportunities to work
toward their goals.

I want you to know that President Biden is your partner in these
efforts. He knows that education is about setting students up for
success in life. And success has many paths. That’s why his vision for
education involves students learning not only in a traditional
classroom, but also outside in the community and on the job, where
students can gain hands-on experience and build skills for a lifelong
career.

And that vision is coming alive here in Northeast Wisconsin, because of
the people in this room. You are providing students with an incredible
education, an opportunity to discover what they love to do, and a solid
foundation for their future.

I can’t wait to hear more about the work you’re doing. Thank you.

\###
