---
date: '2024-02-23'
published_time: 2024-02-23 15:29:51-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/02/23/remarks-as-prepared-for-delivery-by-first-lady-jill-biden-at-the-national-governors-association-winter-meeting/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks as Prepared for Delivery by First Lady Jill\_Biden at the National\
  \ Governors Association Winter\_Meeting"
---
 
The White House  
 

Thank you, Tom.

Governor Cox, Mr. Chairman, thank you for your work and your efforts to
foster a more constructive, respectful dialogue in our debates. Joe is
grateful for your leadership, and I’m grateful to you and Abby for the
warm welcome in Utah last month.

Good morning. It’s great to be here with all of you.

Governor Scott, when I visited Vermont last year, what you said stayed
with me. You said, “pure \[…\] partisan politics has never contributed
to real solutions.” And that, we “can, and should, prioritize progress
over politics, especially on issues where the majority of Americans
agree.”

That majority is an exhausted one, as Governor Cox often points out.

They’re frustrated by a Congress that is often mired in gridlock, and
those who too often treat government like a sport, with an “us versus
them” mindset and a knee-jerk reaction to oppose anything the other team
supports.

But this room shows the nation something very different, and I wish some
lawmakers on the Hill would follow your lead.

You show that we can turn down the volume, stop the shouting, and
actually listen to one another, that, yes, as Governor Cox says, we can
disagree without being disagreeable.

As many of you know, I’ve been teaching writing for 40 years. One day, a
student named Harry, who wanted to be an auto-mechanic, raised his hand.

“Dr. B,” he said, “the only thing I need to learn how to write is ‘needs
brakes.’”

He was joking, of course. But he had a point: he wasn’t just there to
learn the art of writing – he was there to prepare himself for a
good-paying job.

For most people, a high school diploma alone isn’t enough to find a
great career. But they often don’t need a four-year degree to pursue
their passions either. And as technology brings changes to so many
industries, these kinds of learning paths are more important than ever.

Since he took office, my husband, President Biden, has been focused on
rebuilding the middle class. And today, millions of new jobs in
infrastructure, clean energy, and manufacturing are being created.

We will need to train a new generation of workers to fill them.

These positions pay well. And many of them require associate degrees,
certificates, or other hands-on instruction, not four years of college.

Still, a lot of high school students don’t necessarily know how to get
from earning their diplomas to earning a living. They may not even know
what roles are out there.

That’s why we need to transform education, so that it does a better job
of preparing students for careers.

Nearly 60 percent of graduating high school students don’t go directly
to a four-year college. Six out of every 10 students.

Are high schools designed to meet the needs of those students – the
majority – who won’t go directly to a four-year university?

Too many schools aren’t.

Yes, we should still expand access and affordability for students who
want to go immediately to a four-year college after high school.

But we also need to dramatically expand the opportunities we provide for
students who may pursue something else. And that means that everyone
needs a chance to explore future careers in high school.

Career-connected learning meets that need.

I’ve seen it around the country.

In Wisconsin, Governor Evers is scaling a model for starting
apprenticeships in high school in fields from finance to nursing. In
Vermont, Governor Scott is investing in dual enrollment and free
community college. And in Indiana, I saw how students are getting
training for careers in clean energy.

These states show us what it looks like when students have access to
comprehensive career advising, when they are able to take community
college courses in high school and even earn a credential, and when they
can earn high school course credit for working at a job.

I believe in evidence-based models, not just theories. We know this
works.

An Oregon study found that students who concentrated in a particular
career area graduated high school at higher rates and went on to earn
higher wages as adults.

So, what can you do?

You can build out and grow career-connected programs in your state.

I know many of you are already doing this work. Some of you are
providing comprehensive career advising.

Some are prioritizing access to dual enrollment. Some have impressive
programs that allow students to work in real workplaces as part of their
high school curriculum.

And some states are expanding credentialing opportunities, so that
students can work toward obtaining a career qualification while in high
school.

But not enough states are doing all of these, all at once, for every
student. And that’s what’s crucial to unlocking the potential of
career-connected learning.

So, I’m asking you to lean in.

Go to your businesses and tell them how apprenticeships can boost
productivity and reduce turnover. Go to your community college and K-12
leaders and work with them to expand dual enrollment opportunities that
connect all students to good-paying jobs.

And use my office as a partner – and a resource. Reach out to us. Let us
know how we can help you and lift up the great work you’re doing.

And I hope that when this group gathers next, we have even more
successes to show.

Thank you.

\###
