---
date: '2024-02-06'
modified_time: 2024-02-07 13:50:50-05:00
published_time: 2024-02-06 23:20:00-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/02/06/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-at-a-reception-in-recognition-of-black-history-month/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris at a Reception in Recognition of Black History\_\
  Month"
---
 
*East Room *

5:40 P.M. EST  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Good afternoon.  (Applause.)  Good afternoon,
everyone.  Good afternoon, and Happy Black History — (applause) —
celebration.   
  
It is an honor to be with the incredible leaders and dear friends who
are here today, including, of course, our extraordinary President, Joe
Biden — (applause); our First Lady, Dr. Jill Biden — (applause); the
first Second Gentleman of the United States, my husband, Doug Emhoff —
(applause); and the esteemed members of the Congressional Black Caucus,
who, of course — (applause) — are a conscience not only of the United
States Congress but of our country.  
  
So, during Black History Month, we come together as a nation to honor
and celebrate our history — the history of Black excellence and
leadership, culture and creativity, resilience and resistance.   
  
During Black History Month, we tell the stories of the heroes of our
nation’s past and of our present, leaders across our country and here in
this room who shape our future.  
  
This month and every month, we celebrate Black history as America’s
history — living, breathing history that we create every day —
(applause); history that must be taught in full.  (Applause.)   
  
History has also taught us that we must see clearly and speak truth
about the moment we are currently in.  And today, that means we must
speak truth about the full-on attack we witness in states across our
nation on our most fundamental freedoms, including the freedom to learn
and acknowledge our nation’s true and full history.  
  
Across our nation, we have witnessed extremists who try to erase our
history.  They censor history textbooks and cancel history classes. 
Tracie Hall, the first Black woman to serve as executive director of the
American Library Association, reminded us last year, “Free people read
freely.”  
  
And yet, today, we see extremists who pass book bans — book bans in this
year of our Lord, 2024.  And these extremists not only try to erase the
past but to rewrite it.   
  
In Florida, the third-largest state by population in our nation,
so-called leaders intend to teach our children that enslaved people
benefited from slavery.  They insult us in an attempt to gaslight us. 
And as I said in Florida last summer, this is an abject and purposeful
and intentional policy to mislead our children and to divide and
distract our nation with unnecessary debates.  
  
Let us be clear, and I know we are: To build a brighter future for our
nation, we must learn from our past.  Let us not be seduced into
believing that somehow it will be better to forget — if we edit out the
bad parts.   
  
No, we will be stronger when we remember.  We will be better when we
remember.  Only if we learn the lessons of our history can we ensure
that the wrongs and injustices will not be repeated.  
  
So, let history remind us of the strength of the movements for progress
and freedom in our nation — that America’s most sacred principles have
been realized and strengthened when we, the people, fought for them
generation after generation.   
  
And now, let us all play part in the relay race that makes history,
knowing that it is we who have been passed the baton.  And the challenge
for us is how well we run the race when the baton is in our hands. 
(Applause.)  
  
So, in this moment, where we know there is a coexistence between all
that is about the history of struggle and the history of celebration,
knowing of our successes, during this month and always, let us celebrate
the heroes and the excellence as we fight for our country and its most
sacred ideals, knowing we are made for this moment and so was our
President, Joe Biden — (applause) — a leader who has the strength, the
skill, the courage, and the compassion not just to fight but to win.  
  
And now, to introduce our President, it is my great honor to welcome an
extraordinary young leader — I can’t wait for you to get to know him —
Nijel Murray.  (Applause.)  
  
END                       5:46 P.M. EST
