---
date: '2024-02-23'
modified_time: 2024-02-23 13:56:31-05:00
published_time: 2024-02-23 13:56:30-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2024/02/23/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-at-the-national-governors-association-winter-meeting/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris at the National Governors Association Winter\_\
  Meeting"
---
 
*East Room *

11:14 A.M. EST  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Good morning, everyone.  And I want to thank NGA
Vice-Chair Polis for the introduction and for your friendship, and it
really has been my joy and honor to work with you.  And I send best from
Doug as well.  And I thank you for your principled and powerful
leadership in Colorado.  
  
And to all the governors here today, thank you for your work and for
continuing to uphold important traditions, including the important
tradition of us working together across party lines.  I think this is
one of the few remaining professional organizations among elected
leaders where there is meaningful bipartisan work that is happening, and
I thank you for that.

As demonstrated by our administration’s record over the past three
years, there are few leaders as committed to bipartisan collaboration
than Joe Biden.  
  
President Joe Biden knows how to work across the aisle and across every
level of government to make progress.  Globally and domestically, he has
a bold vision for our future.  And he has the strength — and I see it
every day — and the skill and the courage and the determination to make
that vision real.  
  
We are here today because we are all united by a common and collective
purpose: to create opportunity, prosperity, and progress for the
American people.  
  
As a former statewide elected leader — the Attorney General of
California for two terms — I know firsthand the importance of state and
federal collaboration.  And as Vice President, I have worked closely
with many of you on issues like infrastructure, emergency response, and
clean energy, and on two issues that I will address briefly today,
access to capital and maternal mortality.  
  
So, first, access to capital for small businesses.  
  
I don’t need to tell the governors and the leaders here America’s small
businesses employ tens of millions of workers and generate trillions of
dollars for our economy every year.  And their strength, then, is
essential to a broad-based economic policy of growth — growth which
benefits businesses of all sizes.  
  
Small-business owners are business leaders, and they are civic leaders. 
And so, building on work that I helped lead in the United States Senate,
we have increased access to capital for the small businesses of
America.  
  
President Biden and I are giving a total of $10 billion to states across
our nation to invest in small businesses.  
  
And as Vice President, I have had the honor of visiting almost half the
states that are represented here today, and I’ve seen firsthand the
vitality of small business and knowing that that is essential to the
vitality of our communities as a whole, not to mention how the growth of
these small businesses generate tax revenue, which makes up, of course,
a significant portion of the annual revenue of your states.  
  
So, for these reasons, our focus has been to nurture the ambition and
ans- — aspirations of everyone from young entrepreneurs to
multi-generational families to help them with their success.  And since
taking office, we have seen a record number of small businesses in terms
of their growth — the most small businesses ever created, in fact, in
any three years in history — which is indicative of the overall growth
of our economy.  
  
In addition to access to capital, together, we have also taken on the
issue of the maternal mortality crisis.  It is something we cannot talk
about enough, in terms of the significance of this crisis.  
  
For years, federal public policy has not adequately addressed that
before, during, and after childbirth, American women die at a higher
rate than in any other wealthy nation in the world.  The women of
America die at a higher rate than the women of any other wealthy nation
in the world.  
  
Over the years, I have spoken with too many people who have suffered
because of this crisis — mothers who have lost babies, men who have lost
their spouse, children who have lost a parent.  
  
And of the many factors that contribute to this crisis, one of the most
significant is that millions of women in America — in particular, in
low-income communities — do not have access to adequate postpartum
care.  
  
In fact, when we took office, the vast majority of American women on
Medicaid were only entitled to two months of coverage for postpartum
care — meaning two months after giving birth, she could lose access to
lifesaving care, such as cardiac screenings, mental health counseling,
and vaccinations.  
  
When the President and I took office, only three states offered 12
months of care.  And so, I issued a challenge to every state in our
nation: Extend Medicaid postpartum coverage from 2 months to 12 months.

And thanks to the leaders in this room, the governors in this room, so
far, a total of 44 states have answered that challenge — (applause) —
yes — including, as of today, Alaska.  And two more states are in the
process of extending coverage.  And so, we — we call on the remaining
states to please do the same.  
  
In closing, these two seemingly unconnected issues, through the
collaboration between our administration and the governors who are here,
have contributed to the overall strength of our nation and the
well-being of millions of Americans.  And I thank you for your work.  
  
And now, I will welcome a leader who has been a great partner on
maternal mortality and mental health, the Chairman of the NGA and
Governor of Utah, Spencer Cox.

Thank you.  (Applause.)  
  
                               END                 11:20 A.M. EST  
