---
date: '2023-05-18'
modified_time: 2023-05-18 15:55:02-04:00
published_time: 2023-05-18 16:01:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2023/05/18/background-press-call-previewing-day-one-of-the-g7-summit/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Background Press Call Previewing Day One of the G7\_Summit"
---
 
Via Teleconference

  

7:57 A.M. EDT  
   
MODERATOR:  All right.  I think we’ve got folks here.  We’ll go ahead
and get started.  Apologies for the delay, everyone, and thanks for
hopping on the call.

As a reminder, this call is on background, attributable to a senior
administration official.  For your awareness and not for your reporting,
here with me is \[senior administration official\]. 

And this call is embargoed until 8:30 — sorry, it’s embargoed until 5:00
a.m. Japan time tomorrow, May 19th, and 4:00 p.m. Eastern on May 18th,
for those of you stateside.

And with that, I’ll turn it over to \[senior administration official\]
for some thoughts at the top, and then we’ll take some of your
questions.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks, everyone, for joining.  Again,
apologies for starting late.  And good evening.

I wanted to start off by taking a quick step back and reiterating our
main goals out of the G7 this year.

Of course, since President Biden took office, revitalizing our alliances
and partnerships and reestablishing America’s leadership around the
world has been one of his top priorities.

And thanks in no small part to his hard work, you will see this on
display during the G7 Summit in Hiroshima over the next couple of days. 
You will see on display that the G7 is, really, you know, more united
now than ever.

This is true, of course, when it comes to our support for Ukraine, as
the whole world has seen since the beginning of Russia’s brutal
invasion.  But it’s also true in a range of other issues: how we’re
approaching the PRC, how we’re protecting economic security, how we’re
taking steps to address the climate crisis and accelerate the clean
energy transition, and how we’re providing an affirmative agenda for the
developing world.

You will see that unfold day by day here in Hiroshima.

Zeroing in on tomorrow, we have a packed agenda, so I’m going to start
and really kind of dive deep on what we have on deck just over the next
24 hours.

One of the main areas of focus tomorrow will be showing our shared and
continuing support for Ukraine.

Over the last 15 months, since Russia’s brutal invasion began, the G7
has stood in solidarity with Ukraine.

Tomorrow, you will hear a powerful statement of unity, strength, and
commitment in our response to Russia’s war of aggression.

We have taken an array of actions to hold Russia accountable.  In
coordination with our G7 partners, we’ve put in place the largest set of
sanctions and export control actions ever imposed on a major economy.

This is quite a feat, and I’d also remind folks that it was just a
little less than a year ago, at the G7 Summit in Elmau last June, that
leaders agreed to pursue a policy to cap the price on Russian oil and
petroleum products. 

And over the last six months, since that policy was implemented under
the guidance the leaders provided in Elmau, we successfully implemented
this policy.  It’s achieving its goals, our goals of limiting Russian
revenue while also promoting stability in global energy markets.  It’s
also driving steep discounts, benefiting low- and middle-income
countries that consume oil and energy products.

We remain committed to upholding the price cap.  That includes effective
monitoring and enforcement, while also avoiding spillover effects and
maintaining global energy security.

Our commitment to continue tightening the screws on Russia remains as
strong as it was last year.  And so I think tomorrow you will see new
steps taken to economically isolate Russia and to weaken its ability to
wage war.

We’re — specifically you’ll see additional commitments in the Ukraine
statement to this effect.  You’ll see, one, some significant efforts to
further disrupt Russia’s ability to source inputs for its war.  Two,
you’ll see efforts to close evasion loopholes.  Three, you’ll see
further steps to reduce reliance on Russian energy.  Four, you’ll see
continued efforts to squeeze Russia’s access to the international
financial system.  And, five, you’ll see an ongoing commitment to keep
Russia’s sovereign assets immobilized until the end of the war.

There will be actions to back up those principles that will be
articulated in the Ukraine statement.  All G7 members are preparing to
implement new sanctions and export controls.  I won’t get into the
specifics of what partners are doing, but the United States will be
rolling out a substantial package of our own.

So, bottom line is: We’re upping the economic pressure on Russia.

We will continue to expand export controls to make it even harder for
Russia to sustain its war machine.  Among other things, this involves
extensively restricting categories of goods key to the battlefield, and
also cutting off roughly 70 entities from Russia and third countries
from receiving U.S. exports by adding them to the Commerce blacklist.

Moreover, we will announce upwards of 300 new sanctions against
individuals, entities, vessels, and aircraft.  These will go after
circumvention.  These will go after financial facilitators, as well as
future energy and extractive capabilities of Russia and other actors
helping to support the war.  This will include designations across
Europe, the Middle East, and Asia.

We’ll also expand our sanctions authorities to additional sectors of the
Russian economy key to its military-industrial complex and impose new
bans to prevent Russia from benefiting from our services.

As part of all of these efforts, you will see us take significant steps
to align our actions even more closely with the ones imposed by the EU
and the UK to ensure that, as the G7, we remain as coordinated as
possible in our response to their bru- — to Russia’s brutal actions.

Just one more important note before we move to your questions. 
President Biden and the other leaders are here in Hiroshima to
participate in the G7, but tomorrow Prime Minister Kishida will take
them to the Hiroshima Peace Memorial Park and Museum.  They will pay
their respects to the people who lost their lives in this city 78 years
ago.

And tomorrow, President Biden will also reaffirm the U.S.’s commitment
to a nucle- — to nuclear nonproliferation, as reflected in the sessions
here in Hiroshima.

And now I’ll turn to answering some of your questions.  Thank you.

MODERATOR:  Thanks.  First, we’ll go to the line of Demetri.

Q    Hi.  Can you hear me?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yep, can hear you.

Q    Hey, thanks very much.  Good evening.  I want to ask you about the
communiqué on Sunday.  And can you give us a sense of how the language
on China is going to compare with the language in the G7 communiqué last
year?  How much tougher will it be?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  So I don’t want to get out ahead of the
language in the communiqué, which is still being worked on and worked
through.  But I do think what you will see is, again, a historic degree
of unity across the G7 across a range of issues, but importantly on the
People’s Republic of China as well.

And I think that the types of — the types of principles that you’ve
heard from a number of G7 leaders in recent months — the idea that we’re
for de-risking, not decoupling; the idea that we have an important need
to invest in our own economic vitality, as well as the security and
resilience of our supply chains; that we have concerns around the PRC’s
non-market policies and practices, their efforts at economic coercion;
that we want to protect a narrow category of sensitive technology that
can lead to military modernization — I think those types of topics you
will ultimately see reflected in the communiqué and, again, underscore
the historic degree of alignment the G7 as a whole brings to its
approach on China, I think, again, also reflecting the President’s
strong leadership in this regard.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thank you.  Next up we’ll go to the
line of Zeke Miller.

Q    Thanks for doing this.  I was wondering if you can speak to
tomorrow.  In particular, will President Zelenskyy be having any direct
participation in the meeting?  What will that look like?  Will that be
virtual with all the leaders or something separate?

And then secondly, since we’re embargoed here until the morning anyway,
is there any way you can give some more details on some of these new
sanctioned entities and these export controls, just so we can flesh out
our stories for the morning?  Thanks.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Sure.  I mean, I want to be, on the
second question, you know, careful there to not get ahead of the
specific announcements.  
You know, I think what I would do is just, you know, kind of reiterate
what I said in the topper, which is, you know, this is going to be a
significant effort that will extensively restrict Russia’s access to
goods that matter for its battlefield capabilities.  It will cut off
roughly 70 entities from Russia and third countries from receiving U.S.
exports by adding them to the Commerce blacklist.  And there will be
upwards of 300 new sanctions against individuals, entities, vessels, and
aircraft.

I think, you know, beyond that — you know, I think I would just sort of
also highlight the principles that the Ukraine standalone statement will
lift up, you know, not just around diminishing Russia’s ability to wage
war through its access to key industrial and military inputs but also
closing off evasion loopholes, continuing to squeeze both the financial
sector as well as the capacity of Russia to produce energy out over the
medium to long term, and, importantly, keeping its sovereign assets
immobilized as well.  
   
MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Next up we’ll go over to Kevin Liptak.  
   
Q    Yes, thank you.  Wondering how much you expect the President —
President Biden’s counterparts to raise the debt ceiling issue in their
meetings tomorrow.  Do you expect it to come up at all?  And if it does,
can the President — what will his message be if these leaders express
some concern about a potential default?  Thank you.  
   
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Sure.  I mean, I think that — I think
that, you know, the President I think will convey what he has been
conveying for some significant time, which is, you know, the G7 is a
moment when the United States comes together with its key allies and
partners to help shape an agenda to make a difference in the world —
make a difference for our own economic vitality, the prosperity of our
citizens, to address emerging challenges in the world, to address
ongoing conflicts like what we see in Ukraine.  
   
And our ability to do that as a G7 is, of course, you know, kind of
undergirded by, you know, ongoing leadership from the United States.   
   
And, of course, you know, to the extent that debt ceiling brinkmanship
that Republicans are driving in Washington, D.C., undermines American
leadership, undermines the trustworthiness that America can bring to not
just our allies and partners but to the rest of the world, undermines
the ongoing centrality of the U.S. financial system in the global
economy by calling into question the full faith and credit of the U.S.
Treasury — all of those things reduce America’s capacity to lead; reduce
our ability to do things like deliver tough sanctions of the kind that
we will deliver tomorrow, which are predicated on that ongoing
centrality of the U.S. financial system; and will, as a result,
undermine the capacity of the G7 to really continue shaping the world
and delivering for its own citizens but also citizens of the world more
broadly.  
   
So, I do think that it will be an opportunity to highlight just how
central it is that Republicans work to get this done expeditiously with
the President, because a lot is — a lot is riding on ensuring that the
United States continues to lead and lead alongside the G7.  
   
MODERATOR:  Thank you.  And our last question will go to Annie Linskey. 
You should be able to unmute yourself.  
   
Q    Thank you so much.  I just — I wanted to follow up, honestly, on
Zeke Miller’s question from earlier about whether or not — what the
participation level will be for President Zelenskyy.  
   
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  So, you know, President Zelenskyy has
always participated in sort of prior — prior G7 leaders’ engagements on
Ukraine.  We would expect that in one way, shape, or form, you know,
over the summit, that we’ll have a chance for leaders to engage with
President Zelenskyy, just as has been true in every occasion that G7
leaders have gotten together since the start of the war 15 months ago.  
   
MODERATOR:  Thanks, everyone.  That’s all the time we have.  I
appreciate you joining.  As a reminder, the call is embargoed until 5:00
a.m. Japan time on May 19th and 4:00 p.m. Eastern, May 18th, in the
U.S.  Thanks again, everyone.  Have a good night.  
   
8:12 A.M. EDT  
 

  
 
