---
date: '2023-05-09'
published_time: 2023-05-09 19:12:22-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2023/05/09/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-33/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine\_Jean-Pierre"
---
 
1:23 P.M. EDT

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Good afternoon, everybody.  Okay.  Let’s get to it.   
  
As you know, tomorrow the President will travel to New York to drive
home the impact of current discussions on the economy to real
hardworking American families.  After his meeting, it’s important to the
President that Americans across the country know what is at stake
here.  
  
Default threatens 8 million jobs, a recession, retirement accounts, and
Social Security and Medicare payments.  
  
The House Republican Default on America Act will cut veterans’
healthcare visits, teachers and school support staffs, and Meals on
Wheels for seniors.   
  
The President has a different vision: prevent default and invest in
America while reducing the deficit by nearly $3 trillion and cutting
wasteful spending on special interest. 

Now, just a few minutes ago, a while ago, we announced that President
Biden will be making a historic stop in Papua New Guinea while traveling
from the G7 Leaders’ Summit in Hiroshima, Japan, to the Quad Leader
Summit in Sydney, Australia — Australia later this month.  
  
While in Papua New Guinea, President Biden will meet with Prime Minister
Marape of Papua New Guinea and other Pacific Island Forum leaders to
follow up on the first-ever U.S.-Pacific Islands Summit in Washington,
D.C., this past fall.  
  
The leaders will discuss ways to deepen cooperation on challenges
critical to the region and to the United States, such as combating
climate change, protecting maritime resources, and advancing resilient
and inclusive economic growth.  
  
As a Pacific nation, the United States has deep, historical, and
people-to-people ties with the Pacific Islands.  And this visit — the
first time a sitting U.S. President has visited a Pacific Island country
— further reinforces this critical partnership.   
  
This week marks, as you all know, the anniversary of the — of the end of
World War Two in Europe and the victory of the United States and Allied
forces over fascism and aggression on the continent.  
  
President Putin had the — had the rema- — had remarks for the occasion
by launching another wave of cruise missiles and armed drones at the
Ukrainian people.  
  
Since Russia launched its brutal invasion of Ukraine last year,
thousands of Ukrainian civilians have been killed and millions have been
driven from their homes.  
  
The European continent now faces new aggression.  
  
The United States has rallied the world in response, and we will
continue to support the people of Ukraine as they defend their
independence and their democracy.  
  
As part of those efforts, today we are announcing a significant new
security assistant package that will help build the capacity of
Ukraine’s armed forces and to defend Ukraine’s territory and deter
Russian aggression over the long term.  
  
The package includes additional air defense systems that will help
Ukraine protect its people against Russia’s missiles and drone attacks,
as well as <s>artillerary</s> \[artillery\] rounds and support to enable
Ukraine to better maintain its systems and equipment.  
  
Victory Day is supposed to be about peace and unity in Europe.  It’s
supposed to be about the end of war and bloodshed and suffering.  
  
Instead, Mr. Putin promised only more violence and spewed only more lies
about a war he fo- — falsely claims has been unleashed against Russia.  
  
Make no mistake, Russia is the aggressor here.  Mr. Putin started this
unprovoked, unjustified war against the people of Ukraine, and he could
end it at any moment.  He could end it today, if he chooses.  
  
Unless or until he does, we and our allies and partners will work to
help Ukraine achieve the peace and security they deserve.  
  
With that, Josh, welcome.  Good to see you, my friend.  How are you?  
  
Q    Good to see you, Karine.  I’m good.  How are you?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m doing well.  It’s a big day today.   
  
Q    Yes.  So, three subjects.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Sure.  
  
Q    First, what’s the White House’s reaction to Imran Khan’s arrest in
Pakistan?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, just a couple of things I’d like to say about
that.   
  
Just give me a second here.  Yikes.  
  
Okay.  So, as you can — as you know, we’re aware of the arrest of former
Pakistani Prime Minister Imran Khan.  As we have said before, the United
States does not have a position on one political candidate or party
versus another.  We call for the respect of democratic principles and
the rule of law around the world.  So I would refer you to the Pakista-
— the government of Pakistan for any further information on that.   
  
Q    Secondly, as part of the debt limit talks, the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce today called for an agreement that includes discretionary
spending caps.  Does the White House see all spending caps as a
negative, or just the spending caps that are part of the House GOP
bill?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So I’m going to be very clear here.  The President is
going to have a conversation with the four leaders, as you all know. 
That’s going to happen in a couple of hours, at 4:00 p.m. local time,
clearly.  And we’re going to stay focused on what Congress needs to be
doing here — their congressional duty — which is to prevent a
default.   
  
That’s what we’re going to be clear about.  I just laid out at the top
how this can cost almost 8 million jobs if — if House Republicans get
their way.  It could also lead us to a recession — trigger a recession. 
And we’ve listed over and over again what this could be if they continue
to hold the American economy hostage.  
  
That’s going to be our focus, that’s going to be the President’s focus
today, to make that clear to the leaders that they have to do their con-
— congressional duty.  And that’s what’s expected not just of him but of
the American people.  And I’m just going to leave it there.  
  
Q    And then, lastly, the Writers Guild of America tweeted out the
President saying that he wants the striking writers to get a fair
deal.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So I’m just going to reiterate what — echo what the
President said last night from his yesterday — yesterday’s remark: We
“sincerely hope that the writers’ strike in Hollywood gets resolved and
the writers are given the fair deal they deserve \[and\] as soon as
possible.”  And that is what you heard directly from the President
yesterday. 

Q    Is he on their side?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I think his words — his words from last night make it
clear where the President stand on this issue.  
  
Go ahead, Mary.  
  
Q    Given the conversation that is happening today, that it is not
negotiations, as you’ve made very clear, how is the President going into
this?  How is he viewing success in this meeting?  What will he consider
to be a successful meeting?  Is it simply just conveying his message to
them and having them receive it?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, look, what we — what we convey as success — I
mean, people have asked, “Well, will the President give — give Speaker
McCarthy an off-ramp, an exit strategy?”  The exit strategy is very
clear: Do your job.  Congress must act, prevent a default.  That’s what
a success — not for him.  It’s not about the President; it’s about the
American economy, it’s about the American people.  That’s what the
President view as success.  That’s the way that it should be done.   
  
Regular order.  This is regular order.  
  
What House Republicans are saying is that they are — they want to
potentially, if they get their way, threaten their — the country’s first
default, something that has never happened before.  That’s what they’re
threatening.  
  
Again, could lead to — trigger a recession.  Eight million jobs
potentially lost.  That is what they are threatening.  
  
So it’s very easy.  It’s very, very simple: Do your job, go back to
regular order, do what you’re supposed to do.  It’s been done 78 times
and — since 1960.  And that’s what he’s expecting from Congress.  
  
Q    The Speaker says the President is ignoring the problem.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  The President is not ignoring the problem.  We have —
the four leaders are going to be here today at four o’clock to have this
conversation.  
  
The President is going to make himself very clear.  The President has
been clear since February.  Since February, he has said over and over
again: We cannot be a country that defaults.  And most recently, he has
said we cannot be a deadbeat nation, something that we have never done
before — never done before.   
  
And so they need to take action.  Congress has to do their job.  Super
simple.   
  
They are — they are manufacturing — manufacturing a crisis.  
  
Q    And just one on immigration.  The Mexican President said that he
had plans to talk with President Biden this morning.  Has that
conversation taken place?  Can you give us any sense of what was
discussed?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I can confirm that the — the President spoke to
President AMLO this — earlier today, this morning.  We will have a
readout later on.  And then that — we’ll — we’ll certainly share that
readout to all of you so I can confirm.

Go ahead, Steve.

Q    Does the President plan to postpone his foreign trip in order to
deal with the debt ceiling?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, the President could be a president
anywhere.  It doesn’t matter if it’s domestic or international.  He is
always President, even when he travels.

Look, this is something that Congress can take care of today, if they
choose — is do their job, do their constitutional duty.

Q    And what happens after today’s meeting, from your standpoint?  Will
you set up more meetings or is this a one-off?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m not going to get ahead of today’s conversation,
discussion.  The President hopes it’s a productive conversation.  We’ll
see how it goes.

Again, the President is going to make it very clear to the — to the
congressional leaders that they must act and not — and avoid default.

Q    And lastly, there are some estimates that are 150,000 migrants
waiting to cross the border when Title 42 expires.  Is the U.S. prepared
to deal with this onslaught of people?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, as you know, Steve — I’ve said this many times; I
said it yesterday.  Look, actually, let me just give you guys a little
bit of an update on the briefings that are coming up.

Q    Thank you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  The State Department and Department of Homeland
Security will be holding a call on our plan later today.  Secretary
Mayorkas and the State Department will also be holding a press
conference tomorrow.  And Secretary Mayorkas will be joining me at the
podium on Thursday.

We want to make sure that we are transparent about the plan, how we’re
moving forward.  So he’ll be here to certainly take all of your
questions on what’s — what’s ahead.

But we’ve been very clear.  We have a multi-agency process.  We believe
we have a robust process to deal with what is going to occur after Title
42 lifts.

Again, we’re using the tools that are available to us because Congress
refuses to do their job when it — as it relates to the border.  Again, a
system that has been broken for decades.

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  Senator Manchin this morning sharply criticized
the President’s handling of these debt ceiling talks.  He said it’s,
quote, “not rational, it’s not reasonable, it’s not practical,” in terms
of his refusal to negotiate over raising the debt limit.  What’s the
White House’s response to that?  And — and to what extent does it weaken
the President’s position to not have Democrats in lockstep with him?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  It’s not rationable — it’s not rational — rationable —
it’s not reasonable and it’s not practical for Congress to do — to be
doing what they’re doing, for House Republicans to be holding this up,
for threatening default.  That’s is where the problem should be and
that’s who should be called out.

Speaker McCarthy is going to be here.  And he — you know, what we’re
seeing from House Republicans, from MAGA Republicans, is that they are
making — they are manufacturing a crisis.  That shouldn’t be.  That
shouldn’t be. 

The President doesn’t want to see this happen either.  He doesn’t want
to see our economy held hostage.  He does not want to see this.  That’s
why he’s having these leaders here.  And he’s going to make himself
very, very clear.  And that’s the discussion that they’re going to
have. 

And, you know, I’m not going to get ahead of what’s going to come out of
that.  And we’ll see.

Q    Given how unified Republicans have been around Speaker McCarthy, do
you have any concern about, you know, Democrats not — you know, that
there may be some wavering among some Democrats about the President’s
position on the debt ceiling?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, look, the Democrats have been very clear as
well that we need to deal with — deal with the debt limit.  We’ve been
all very clear about that; so has Leader Jeffries and so has Leader
Schumer.  They’ve — we’ve been all on the same page when the — with the
leadership — is that Republicans in Congress need to do their job.  And
that’s what we’re going to see today.

Q    And then, in terms of the situation on the southern border, there
have been — yesterday there were nearly 10,000 migrant encounters on the
southern border.  There are around 27,000 migrants currently in CBP
custody.  I know that the administration — you guys talked a lot about
the surge that you anticipated after Title 42 would expire.  Did the
administration expect there to be a surge before?  And how is that going
to impact your preparedness if there’s still another surge expected
after May 11th?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So what you can expect from us is that we’re going to
do everything that we can and use every available tool to us, as we have
been, to deal with this issue in a humane — in a humane way, manage it
humanely.  And that’s what we’ve been very clear about.

Our focus when it — as it relates to managing the border is we’re going
to do this through enforcement, deterrence, and diplomacy.  And that’s
what you have seen. 

And we’ve been working with our regional partners, and we have just few
tools that are available to the President, you know?  And that’s because
Congress has failed to act.  So right now we believe we have a robust
plan, a multiagency plan to do this in a humane way.

And we’re going to have Secretary Mayorkas here with us in the Briefing
Room on Thursday, and he’ll certainly lay out the plan in a more deeper
way, a more in-depth way.  You all will be able to ask him this
question.  He was at the border very recently.  He’s held multiple press
conferences on this issue. 

You’ve heard from the State Department.  You’ve heard from Homeland
Security — clearly, Mayorkas, as I just mentioned.  You’ve heard from
the Pentagon, who did a briefing just last week.  And we’re going to
continue to inform the American people and continue to inform all of you
on how we’re moving forward.  And that’s what you could expect from this
administration.

Q    But to my question, did you anticipate the current numbers that we
are seeing right now, before?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, I can’t — I — I can’t get into hypotheticals
about the numbers and what they were going or going to be.  That’s not
something I’m going to do here.

What I can say is that we knew, clearly — we knew from the Court that
Title 42 was going to lift on Thursday.  That’s something that we were
clearly very well aware — aware of since — since earlier this year.  We
have put plans in place and processes in place to deal with this very
moment.

And so that’s what you — I can only speak to what you can expect from
us.  And we’ve been very transparent about that, and we’ll continue to
be.

Go ahead, Joey.

Q    Thank you.  Speaker McCarthy said today he doesn’t support a
short-term debt ceiling increase.  “Let’s just get this done now,” he
told reporters.  Does the White House agree with him, with the Speaker,
on this — this point?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, a short-term extension is not our plan either. 
That is not our plan.

This is — can be easily resolved.  This is a manmade crisis that the
Speaker is leading.  We can get this done.  We want to make sure that we
move the threat of default.  And that’s what the President is going to
be making clear about.  This is not negotiable.  Default is not
negotiable.

Q    And a second question.  On the Writers Guild strike that the may- —
that the President weighed into, he says he wants a — to see a fair
deal.  What is a fair deal in the President’s view?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We’re certainly not going to get into a back-and-forth
on what a fair deal looks like.  We’re going to continue to encourage
both sides to come together, to come to the table and have that
discussion.  I’m just not going to get ahead of that.

Q    Okay.  Thanks.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  I mean, does the — I wanted to ask: Secretary
Mayorkas is going to come speak with us.  Thanks for that.  Just, what
about the President?  Will the President speak out about Title 42, share
a message that Mayorkas has given or, you know — you know, something to
that effect?  Will we hear from the President on Title 42?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, I would say you heard from the President just
this past Friday.  He did a — he did an interview, a sit-down interview,
with one of the networks and talked about Title 42, talked about
immigration.  So the American people did hear directly from the
President on this issue.

I don’t have anything else to share in the next couple of days about the
President’s schedule, so I’ll just leave it there.   
  
But he was asked a question, and he answered it.

Go ahead, Josh.

Q    One more please, if I could.  I mean, should Americans anticipate
or expect an orderly process on the border?  Or does the administration
want Americans to know that this is going to be a challenging moment and
there could be some hiccups or there could be some challenges and to
give a little bit of patience as the transition is made?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, what we have been very clear about is that we do
want to put a process in place that’s orderly, that’s humane, and using
the tools that the President has in front of him to do just that.

I’ve said very clearly, we want enforcement, deterrence, and diplomacy. 
That’s what we’re — that’s how we’re moving forward.  Those are the
three steps that we’re taking to get this done. 

There are challenges at the border.  This is something that the
President has taken seriously, from day one, putting forth a
comprehensive piece of legislation to deal with immigration reform,
something that has been a problem for the past several decades.  The
system has been broken for the past several decades. 

And again, the President would like to do more.  He ha- — he’s using the
tools in front of him, but Congress refuses to act.  Instead, many
Republican official want to make a political case out of this.  They’re
not looking to meet us at the table to actually deal with this issue. 
They want to turn this into a political stunt.   
  
And so that’s not what we’re trying to do.  We’re trying to deal with
this issue.  We’re trying to deal with this challenge.  And again, we’ve
been doing this since day one.

Go ahead, Josh.

Q    Can you say what will happen if Congress doesn’t act on the debt
limit?  Speaker McCarthy hasn’t budged yet.  The President hasn’t moved
his position.  Will he let this go off a cliff if the Speaker doesn’t do
anything?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, the Speaker has to do his job; Congress has to
do their job.  That’s what we’re —

Q    (Inaudible) the President doesn’t have any job to do?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  The President — historically, 78 times since 1960,
this is what Congress has done.  They have done their constitutional
duty — is to deal with the debt limit.  That is something that they have
done.  This is regular order.  This is the process that they have used. 
And we’re asking them to go back into — to — to that process.

And look, what they — what could potentially happen, as I just laid out,
is a potential recession — 8 million jobs lost.  That is something that
Congress could avoid.  They can easily avoid this and do their jobs.

So I’m not going to get ahead of what’s going to happen today at four
o’clock or get into hypotheticals from here.  But the President has been
very clear.  He’s been very, very clear.  They have to get this done. 

And what they’re threatening is, and what they’re saying to us is, we
have to take their whole entire agenda — which is extreme; a lot of
Americans do not agree with that agenda — or they’re going to hold the
economy hostage.  That’s what they’re putting forward.

Remember, a lot — 22 percent cut on veterans, on healthcare, on Meals on
Wheels, all the things that we have listed out over and over again —
Americans don’t agree with that.  And it’s going to hurt American
families.

So we’re going to be very clear.  The President is going to be very
clear with — with — with the leaders today that they have to act.

Q    And you’ve been talking today about two subjects where Congress
hasn’t acted.  One is immigration.  And you’re saying you — we’ll use
all the tools available to us because Congress refuses to act on the
border.  They also, so far, haven’t acted on the debt ceiling.  So I
guess I’m trying to figure out what will happen if they continue to not
act and we get closer to the deadline, which could be enforced as early
as June 1st or as late as August.   
  
Will the President — does he think he has any tools to use if Congress
continues to not do its job?  Because it’s not clear that Speaker
McCarthy can really move — right? — that he has a lot of leeway in his
caucus to (inaudible).

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, that’s for Spea- — that’s for Speaker McCarthy
to speak to.  I can’t speak about the leeway and the pull —

Q    Right.  But what happens if he doesn’t — I guess, if he can’t?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I know.  I — no, I hear you.

You mentioned Speaker McCarthy.  I can’t speak for him.  I can speak for
the President. 

And it is Congress’s job.  And I get your question, Josh, but this is
their — literally their constitutional duty.  They take an oath, and
this is what they’re supposed to do.  They’re supposed to deal with the
debt limit — one of the many things that they have that they’re supposed
to deal with.

And this is something that we — a first-ever default?  That’s what
they’re threatening?  This is what they’re saying that they want to take
us down the road on? 

This is — a first-ever default would trigger a recession, erase millions
of job.  It’s very simple.  The exit ramp for them is to do their job —
is to do their job.  The President will make that very clear in his
meeting.  I’m not going to get ahead of what’s going to come out of that
meeting.  But the President has been really, really clear here.

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  Going back to Steve’s question.  When the
President does leave for Japan and Australia next week, he’s not slated
to return until just before that June deadline that the Treasury
Secretary has talked about.  If we get to next week and there is no plan
in place to raise the debt ceiling, will the President delay or cancel
his trip?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, Nancy, appreciate the question.  I understand the
question.  I’m not going to get ahead of today’s meeting.  Let’s see how
the meeting goes at four o’clock.

Certainly, our goal here is to make sure that Congress does their
constitutional duty and to prevent default.  Just not going to get into
hypotheticals.  Let’s see how the meeting goes.  It’s going to happen
very shortly, at 4:00.  And let’s see how it turns out, what comes out
of that.

Q    Who’s going to be handling these discussions from the White House
while the President is overseas?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, look, the President could be president
anywhere.  These are issues that — certainly that he will be very aware
of and very involved in getting updates from his — his team.

As you know, the office of — when it comes to legislative things and
things that are dealt with Congress, that’s the Office of Leg Affairs. 
They play point on this.

But the President, again, can be president wherever he is, in —
domestically or out of the country.

Q    Should the Vice President be involved in today’s meeting since
she’ll be here in the country while the President is away?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So the President is closely — has been closely
consulting with the Vice President on this.  They have had several
conversations on this issue.  And so, again, when it comes to issues
that matter to the American people, they’re very much partners. 

Q    What message does it send to the world that we’re now three weeks
away from a potential default and it is still completely unclear how
this is going to be resolved?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, the United State is not a deadbeat nation. 
The President ma- — has made that very clear.  We have never failed to
pay our bills, and we should not do this now.  Congress must do its job
and prevent a default. 

And, look, this — if there was a default, it would be a gift to China,
to Russia, and to other competitors.  That’s what we’re saying here. 
That’s what House Republicans are saying.  If they were to default, it
would be a gift to them.  
  
Let me just give you a little bit about what the Director of National
Intelligence, Avril Haines, said, who, as you all know, the head of the
intelligence community.  
  
She testified last week to Congress, and she said the following: Both
Russia and China would look to use a default to demonstrate “the chaos
within the United States, that we’re not capable of functioning as a
democracy…”  Default would “create global uncertainty about the value of
the U.S. dollar and the U.S. institutions and leadership, leading to
volatility in currency and financial markets and commodity markets that
are priced in dollars.”  China and Russia “would look to take advantage
of the opportunity” if we were to default.  
  
That’s what congressional Republicans are threatening.  That’s what they
are potentially going to really put us into a tailspin if they don’t
actually do their jobs — really simple — do their jobs and avoid
default.

Go ahead.  
  
Q    On matters of the economy, the public often holds the President
accountable for the outcomes here.  Does the President have a sense that
he will be blamed by the American public if default actually occurs?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, Republicans are holding the entire economy hostage
and saying, unless their entire agenda gets done, they’re going to cause
an unprecedented default.  
  
What the President is doing is the opposite of that.  He wants to make
sure that we take that off the table and have a separate conversation —
a separate conversation on the budget, something that he put forth on
March 9th, which shows how he values the way moving forward, what cou- —
to show how he sees our economy moving forward, building on the
successes that he’s had these last two years, making sure that we cut
the deficit by $3 trillion for the next 10 years.   
  
So, to your question — I have an answer to your question — polling from
2011 and 2013 makes clear that congressional Republicans were to blame
for their threats to default.  And polling now shows Americans want
spending and default handled separately, as does the President.  
  
That said, when it comes to threatening default, people should not be
looking at polling.  They should be looking at how they’re going to be
delivering for the American people.  They should be looking at their
constituents whose jobs and retirements could be crushed by recession if
they — if this is truly going to move forward in the way that they
seemingly want to go, which is manufacturing a crisis.  
  
So, again, you know, this is something that the President wants to
avoid.  He wants to make sure that this is not on the table, that we
take default off the table.  And that’s a conversation that he’s going
to have very clearly with congressional members today — leaders today.  
  
Q    There have been other instances of brinksmanship on Capitol Hill
with government shutdowns, and the public has seen that.  They’ve seen
11th hour resolution to things.  
  
This is a very different beast, in terms of the potential negative
impact; as you’ve pointed out, never happened before.  Do you think the
public has a sense of what is at stake for them, their retirement
accounts, their job security, the overall economy?  And do you
anticipate the President will have to speak out about this in a — in a
bigger way than the daily communication that he’s done or that you
speaking on his behalf?  Is there a speech to be had?  Is there a moment
coming?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So the President is going to go to New York.  He’s
going to visit a district that he won in 2020.  He’s going to talk
directly to — to constituents and, clearly, Americans in — in that
district, and have a very clear conversation and be — lay this out very
clearly, as he’s done many times.   
  
I had mentioned the polling in 2011 —  
  
Q    I was thinking — nighttime is, I guess, where I was going with
that.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I see.  (Laughs.)  I — I mentioned —  
  
Q    So — I’m sorry.  That wasn’t clear.  I knew —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No —  
  
Q    — I know he’s going to New York.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yep.  No, no.  I totally understand.  I mentioned the
polling from 2011 and 2013, how congressional Republicans were blamed by
the American people about what they tried to do in those two instances. 
And the President is going to continue to talk about this.  
  
Don’t have a nighttime, primetime speech to lay out for you or to
preview at this time.  But, look, let’s see what happens at 4:00.  Let’s
see how this conversation goes.   
  
And, you know, we’ve been very clear, Secretary Yellen has been clear,
the President has been clear, many — many economists who work here in
the administration has been clear, businesses have been clear: This
would be catastrophic.  And it does not have to happen.  It does not
have to happen.  This could be avoided.   
  
We have never, ever defaulted before.  We cannot be a deadbeat nation. 
So we can avoid this.  The President is going to make that very clear
today.

  
Q    Hey, Karine.  Thank you.  You mentioned that the President is going
to be going to New York tomorrow.  You mentioned that he’s going to a
district that he won in 2020.  It also happens to be a district that is
represented by a Republican currently.   
  
Can you talk about the decision to target this specific district and
what the President plans to say?  And also, can you address the fact
that the Republican member of Congress, Mike Lawler, agreed to the White
House’s invitation to appear alongside the President and what that means
for the President’s remarks?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, I’m going to let the congressman speak for
himself.  He can do that.  He’s able to do so.  
  
I mentioned this at the top: The President is going to drive home the
impact of these current discussions that we’re having — the economy; how
it affects real hardworking Americans.  That’s what you’re going to hear
from the President.  He’ll be very clear about that.  He’ll be clear
about what could potentially happen.   
  
And, yes, you know, we’ve talked about default and what that could look
like — recession, <s>trigging</s> \[triggering\] a recession,
potentially 8 million jobs lost.   
  
But let’s not forget the other piece of the act that Republicans in the
House has put forward.  Let’s not forget veterans.  Let’s not forget
healthcare.  Let’s not forget schools, to support staff.

Those things are also embedded or part — a 22 percent cut to these
programs that families really, truly need.  So he’s going to talk about
that.

I’m going to let the congressman speak for himself.  The President is —
loves to travel across the country to different district, different
states.  And that’s what you’re going to see from this President
tomorrow.

Q    The President has talked about, you know, having a sense of unity
and not questioning people’s motives and sort of bringing the
temperature down in politics.  We’ve seen him on the stumps — we’ve seen
his stump speech.  We’ve seen how aggressive it can be about quote,
unquote, “MAGA Republicans.”  You are going to have a Republican member
in front of his constituents, right there alongside the President.  Will
that change the way the President addresses the crowd in (inaudible)?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  The President is always going to be honest with the
American people.  There’s a — there’s a real question about where our
economy is going to be  going.  Right?  And that is something that the
President is going to lay out for the American people.

And so, look, when the President speaks, it’s not just to the people who
are in front of me — in front of him, pardon me — or the people in that
district or in that state.  He’s speaking to the nation, and sometimes
to the world, when he’s at the podium or when he’s speaking — when the
President speaks just in general.  Like, everyone listens, and you all
cover it, you all write about it.

And so this is a message that he’ll have to the American people about
what’s at stake.  Americans need to know what’s at stake.  You know,
it’s basically — to Kelly O’s question — they need to know what’s at
stake here, where we’re headed with our economy. 

The President has worked the last two years to rebuild our economy, as
we’ve always said, from the middle out, bottom up, and we’ve had some
successes.  If this occurs, it’s going to take us back.  It’s going to
take us back. 

And so the President is going to be very honest, very upfront with the
American people.  That’s what you’ll hear from him, as he always is when
he speaks.  And so he’ll lay out — again, lay out what’s at stake.

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks.  Just a quick follow-up.  On — can you just give a bit more
specifics on why the President chose Hudson Valley for — to give this
speech?  And does he think that giving this speech on avoiding the
default and going after the Republican plan that they passed would
actually convince them to pass a clean debt limit increase?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So I’m not going to get ahead of the President.  He’ll
lay out why he’s there, as he always does, why he’s in front of the
audience that he’ll be speaking to tomorrow.  So I’m going to let him
speak to that.

But what I can say is, again, kind of what I just said to your
colleague: The President is going to be very clear about what’s at
stake, the impact of the current discussions that we’re having, the
impact of this budget and this default that House Republicans have
connected.  He’s going to make it very, very clear this is going to hurt
American families.  It’s going to hurt our economy, and it’s going to
hurt American families.

We’re talking about American families that need these programs that are
having the 22 percent cut.  They need it just to make ends meet.  So
he’s going to lay that out, as he has many times when he talks about the
economy, when he talks about what MAGA Republicans are doing.   
  
He’s mentioned that before; he’s talked about that before over the last
— especially the last two weeks.  And so now he’s going to be doing it
in New York in front of an audience, again, speaking to — speaking to
the country, as he does every time he speaks, as President of the United
States.  And I’ll let him speak to why now, why New York, and what is it
that he wants — wants the American people to know.

Go ahead, Karen.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  Two questions on Title 42 and governors.  I know
you were asked yesterday about when the President — if the President had
spoken to Governor Abbott about the Allen, Texas, shooting.  But when
was the last time the President spoke to Governor Abbott about the
border situation?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have any timeline of calls to lay out to the
governor.  You’ve seen the governor and the President together many
times over the past, I would say, year when the President visited
Texas.  I don’t have anything to lay out on the timeline of conversation
or the last time he’s spoken to the governor.

Q    And any plans for them to talk this week?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have anything to preview at this time.

Q    Okay.  And Arizona Democratic Governor Katie Hobbs said Monday that
she’s afraid the federal government is unprepared to meet the demands of
the expected influx at the border.  And she said that her recent request
to the White House and to the DHS Secretary asking what the plans are
and for more help have not been met with an adequate response.  What is
the response to the governor?  And why hasn’t the administration
responded to what she’s asking for?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, we welcome the additional steps that
Governor Hobbs announced.  And teams in our administration remain in
close contact with border communities, including Arizona, to provide
tam- — timely information and resources.  Just this past Friday, DHS
provided $45.5 million to organizations in Arizona supporting migrants.

Look, we’re — continue to have those conversations with her.  We’ll
continue to stay in touch.  I just mentioned the — the funding that we
provided — that DHS provided on Friday. 

We are putting forth a robust plan, and we’re putting that in place to
do this in a humane- — humane way, to do this in an orderly way through
enforcement, deterrence, and diplomacy.  We’ve been very clear about
that not just today, not just yesterday, not just last week, but for the
past several months.

We’re going to have Secretary Mayorkas, who is kindly going to be
joining us in the briefing on Thursday.  He’s going to take your
questions.  He’s going to lay out very clearly, again, what we’ve been
doing.  We want to provide all the information that we can, that we have
to all of you.  We have been doing that not just here, State Department,
DHS, and Pentagon as well.

And so we’re going to continue to have those conversation.  Again, we
appreciate and welcome the additional steps that was provided by the
governor, and we’ll continue to stay in close touch.

Go ahead.

Q    Thank you.  Forty-three Republican senators signed on to a letter
opposing raising the debt ceiling without budget reforms, and 217
members in the House voted for that bill to raise the debt limit with
cuts to spending.  Does the White House consider all of those members to
be dangerous MAGA Republican extremists?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Do they understand what the cuts that they’re voting
for is going to do?  Do they — do — that’s the question.  I mean,
Republicans in Congress, in the House specifically, voted for cuts
that’s going to hurt American families.  I mean, we can’t say this
enough: 22 percent cuts to veterans, healthcare, schools.  That’s what
they voted for.  That’s what — and — and this not —

Q    (Inaudible) off — off the table.  But —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  But this not — this is not just — this is their
constituents.  This is what they voted for.

Q    And those constituents that they’re voting on behalf of have said
that they are concerned about their retirements, about the effects of
inflation.  And those members represent more than half of the country in
the House.  I mean, those — that’s the majority of districts in the
country that they’re voting on behalf of those constituents who are
expressing concern about where the economy is.

So, I guess, how can the White House continue to use messaging in
calling this the “Default on America Act” and — and paint this
legislation in such a way without having a conversation about the budget
when you’ve got half the country saying that they want that
conversation?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, House Republicans are threatening a first-ever
default.  They want the President to agree on a plan in its entirety
that includes cuts — that includes cuts to programs that are incredibly
important for the American family — because they want to hold the
American economy hostage.  Because that’s what they’re saying that they
want to do by threatening — by threatening a default.

Q    Their bill would raise the debt limit.  They passed a bill to raise
the debt limit.  So they’re — the conversation —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  They’ve connect- — I hear you, but they are connecting
passing whatever — this debt limit — to cuts: 22 percent cuts to
veterans, to seniors.  That’s what they are threatening, cuts to our
schools.  That’s what the twen- — that’s what is connecting.  That’s
what their budget plan is.

Q    The bill doesn’t have any appropriations in it, actually.  And the
— the Speaker has, you know, ruled out a number of those things,
including defense, veterans’ benefits, senior entitlement programs. 
When you have Mitt Romney saying that there has to be a conversation
here, is he a MAGA Republican extremist?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  What I’m saying is House Republicans have been very
clear.  They voted on a bill that’s going to cut programs that are very
important to American families: law enforcement — cutting programs to
law enforcement; cutting program to veterans — veteran care; cutting
program to our school system.  That’s what Republicans have voted on.

So those are extreme.  Those are very extreme.  These are things that
the American people don’t want.  Just look at twenty- — 2022, what they
voted for.  They voted for — to protect — to protect their retirement
accounts.  That’s what the American people want to see. 

And so, they’re connecting those two.  They want the President to agree
on its entire agenda of an extreme budget.  It is an extreme budget,
something that Americans do not want.  And, you know, that’s something
for them to answer to.  This is — this is also speaking to their —
they’re speaking to their constituents when they’re voting for something
like that.

And so, look, the President put forth a budget where it also cuts
spending, but not hurting American families.  We’re trying to make sure
that we lower the deficit by saying that we’re going to cut the deficit
by $3 trillion over 10 years.

But he put forth something that is actually responsible.  Remember: Show
me your value.  Show me your budget, and I’ll tell you what you value. 
That’s what the President said.  They showed their value by showing
veteran — cutting veterans’ program, cutting school programs, cutting
healthcare — 22 percent.  That’s what they value?  That’s something that
they have to answer to the American people about.

Go ahead, Ed.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  So if cutting government spending would help
reduce inflation faster, in this meeting today, is the President open to
hearing other viewpoints?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, look, as you know, Ed, because you asked me this
question many times, when it comes to the economy, when it comes to a
priority that the President have for the American people, lowering costs
for families is a top priority.  He talks about that often.

You’ve heard him talk about lowering prescription drug costs, which we
have been able to do; capping insulin at 35 bucks a month for seniors;
allowing Medicare to negotiate lower prices.  That’s why Inflation
Reduction Act was so critical and important.  Only — only Democrats
voted for that.  Helped lower energy bills, another — another component
of the Inflation Reduction Act.  I just talked about how he put forth a
budget that’s going to lower the deficit by $3 trillion over the next 10
years. 

And, again, I was very clear with Jacqui: They have put forth the
opposite.  They want to go the opposite direction.  They want to cut
programs that’s going to lower cost.  They want to take our economy
hostage with a default.  They want to bring back failed trickle-down
economy, which we know doesn’t work.

So, look, the President is always going to try and figure out how he can
lower costs for the American people.  He has actually taken action and
been able to put policies forward; pass legislation with Democrats —
with the help of Democrats in Congress; signed that legislation to deal
with issues that really matter to the American people.

Q    (Inaudible.)  One more on — on a different subject, if I could. 
So, after Title 42 ends, does the President then want to go back to the
border to see the situation for himself?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have any trips to — to preview for you.  As
you know, the President has gone to the border more than once.  We have
put forth a robust multiagency plan to humanely deal with the border in
a way that leads with enforcement, deterrence, and diplomacy.

I’m going to have Secretary Mayorkas here on Thursday.  He’ll be glad to
take your questions.  That’s why he’s joining us.

We’ve had multiple briefings from the different agencies that are
involved in this process.  We’ll continue to do that and answer your
question and put out information on how we’re dealing with the real —
with the — the challenges that we’re seeing at the border.

Again, the President is using the tools that he has in front of him
because Congress refuses to act.

Go ahead.

Q    Yes, Karine.  On the COVID-19 public health emergency ending on
Thursday, obviously, we know COVID is not over.  And, in fact, CDC data
shows that there’s a disproportionate share of hospitalizations and
infections and deaths for Black, Hispanic, and Indigenous populations. 
These are also populations that are overrepresented in lack of access to
healthcare, unemployment, poverty levels.  Is the administration
concerned that these communities could be left behind as we move away
from the public health emergency, especially when you think about long
COVID?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So there’s a couple questions there with long COVID,
and I’ll take that first. 

Look, we’ve seen the progress that has been made last year that HHS has
led on, and that’s deliver high-quality care for individuals
experiencing long COVID; provide information and resources to help
people struggling with long COVID, including our nation’s veterans;
employ employers — employees, pardon me, in — in the workplace.  And
we’ve invested in care for people in underserved communities who have
been disproportionately impacted by long COVID.

We are going to — there’s going to be an office that’s going to be set
up, as you know, that — because of the omnibus fiscal year of twenty- —
in 2023.  Certainly that would be a space where we’ll continue to deal
with this — with the pandemic, even though we’re in a different stage of
the pandemic.  As you said, COVID is still here.  So we’ll — we’ll
certainly deal with that in an appropriate way.

And so, look, there’s the Project Next Generation as well.  That’s a way
to stay ahead of the rapidly evolving virus that causes COVID.  We need
to continue to support the development of a new generational —
generation of tools, and that’s what you’re going to see from Project
Next Gen. 

So we are taking all of this very seriously.  And we’ll certainly have
more to share in the next day or two.

Q    And more broadly, could you give a sense of how the administration
is feeling coming out of the public emergency — public health emergency
— given where we were two, three years ago?  Does the administration see
this as a success in terms of combating COVID or a sense of a sigh of
rel- — of relief at all?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look — look, we are definitely at a different
point in the pandemic.  Over the last two years, the administration has
— has made significant progress in ability — in an ability to manage
COVID-19 in a way that protects life and health and no longer
meaningfully disrupts our lives.  And that’s because of this President’s
leadership.

Again, we’re not out of the pode- — pandemic; we’re certainly in a
different place.  And that’s because of what this President has been
able to do — when you think about how COVID deaths have declined by 95
percent, new COVID-19 hospitalizations are down nearly 88 percent, and
COVID-19 cases and deaths globally are at its lowest levels since the
start of the pandemic. 

You heard from the World Health Organization, saying COVID — COVID
pandem- — pandemic no longer qualifies as a global health emergency. 

So, look, let the numbers speak for itself.  The President — over 270
million people have at least one shot in arms because of the
comprehensive plan that this President and his administration has put
forward.  And so — look, again, let the numbers speak for itself. 

The President has taken this very seriously since day one.  And now
we’re in a — it’s good.  It’s actually good that we’re in a different
stage of this pandemic.

One more.  Go ahead, Courtney.

Q    Thank you.  I wanted to ask about the Labor Department.  They — the
department hasn’t testified before Congress yet about its budget.  I
know that Acting Secretary Julie Su is also up for a nomination.  Is
there a reason that she hasn’t gone before Congress about the budget in
her acting role or that you haven’t sent someone else to take questions?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  That’s a very good question.  I would refer you to the
Department of Labor about their process and being in front of Congress
and speaking to their budget.  I would just refer you to them.

Q    Also, on Title 42, there’s a bill emerging on Capitol Hill this
week that Republicans are pushing in the House.  I understand that
broadly you disagree with that bill.  But can you talk about if you see
any points of agreement with the GOP on places of tension or problems
related to the border that you agree on that you can move forward with? 
Maybe there’s parts of that bill you do agree with or other solutions
that you know would have broad support?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So I laid out yesterday why we don’t agree with that
bill.  Certainly that —

Q    (Inaudible.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, no, no —

Q    Yeah.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — that — nothing changes there.  That still stands. 
What we have seen is Congress cut — Republicans cut — wanting to cut
resources to — cutting 2,000 in law enforcement to be at the border. 
They have not done anything to be helpful in this process.  They’ve done
politi- — they’ve taken political stunts.  What they put forward is not
going to help the issue at all, and we’ve taken this very seriously. 

On day one, the President put forth an — a comprehensive immigration
reform legislation to really have this conversation about how do we put
more resources to deal with this challenge.  And instead, they want to
take away resources.  That’s what they’ve — they’ve told us. 

And so if they want to seriously have a real conversation, we’re willing
to have that conversation.  But they haven’t proven that.  They haven’t
proven that they want a real conversation.  They want to actually make
the situation — the challenges that we see at the border — worse. 
That’s what their legislation shows.  That’s what it tells the American
people.

Q    So I take it you don’t —

Q    Thanks, Karine.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.

Q    — see a specific area of agreement then?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, I’ve been very clear.  I li- — I literally
went almost line by line about the things that we disagree about with
this — in this — that legislation yesterday.  It’s going to make the
situation worse.  It’s not going to help.  And, look, they want to play
political games, and that’s not what the President wants to do.  He
wants to do the opposite. 

All right, everybody, I’ll see you on Thursday.  Thank you.

2:10 P.M. EDT
