---
date: '2023-05-08'
published_time: 2023-05-08 20:27:04-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2023/05/08/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-32/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine\_Jean-Pierre"
---
 
2:56 P.M. EDT  
  
Q    Good afternoon.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Good afternoon, everyone.  Happy Monday.  Let’s get
straight to it.   
  
Good afternoon.  Today is Monday, May 8th.  That mean it is the 128th
day of 2023.  And yesterday, according to leading accounts, we witnessed
the 201st mass shooting in this country this year.  That means we are
averaging more than one a day.  More than 200 mass shootings in 128
days.  Credible estimates show that more than 14,000 people have died
this year from gun violence.   
  
This is a crisis.  It is a crisis that the Republicans in Congress are
refusing to address.  We are talking about the number-one killer of kids
in America, and Republicans in Congress are saying there is nothing that
we can do about it.  
  
Schools, shopping malls, churches, movie theaters, grocery stores,
temples — places that are a part of our everyday lives, that are
essential to our everyday lives — day after day are coming under attack
from weapons of war that have no place — no place on our streets.   
  
This is about protecting our kids, our places of worship. This is about
protecting our everyday life.   
  
Congress must address this crisis.  Yesterday, the President once again
— once again asked Congress to send him a bill banning assault weapons
and high-capacity magazines, ending immunity for manufacturers,
requiring safe storage, enacting universal background checks.  It’s just
common sense.  It’s just common sense.  And it’s what the American
people want — majority of the American people want.  
  
When we have 200 mass shootings in less than 130 days — more than one a
day — this is a crisis.  Congress must do something about it.  
  
Now, as many of you are tracking, we have multiple agencies and multiple
countries working together to humanely manage the border when Title 42
public health order lifts on Thursday, just — in just a couple of
days.  
  
Now, given all that House Republicans have had to say about our plan,
you would think they’d have some grand alternative.  But think again.   
  
Earlier this month, House Republicans voted to fire 2,000 Border Patrol
— Patrol agents.  And this week, they’re taking up a bill that once
again demonstrates that House Republicans are more interested in
campaigning on immigration than actually solving it.    
  
The bill, H.R. 2, would be a disaster for border security and Christmas
morning gift for human smugglers.  It would lead to more unlawful
migration by blocking off lawful pathways to protection.  It would
trample on our nation’s core values and international obligations in a
boon to dictators around the world.    
  
And instead of providing the needed resources for more border security
technology and asylum officers and judges, it would waste taxpayer
dollars on an ineffective wall — again, an ineffective wall that can’t
even withstand heavy winds, let alone sophisticated criminal smuggling
networks.   
  
If the President were presented with H.R. 2, he would veto it.  He won’t
let House Republicans make things worse despice \[sic\] — despite their
best efforts.   
  
Finally, a short time ago, as you all saw yourselves, the President and
Secretary Buttigieg announced plans for new regulations that would
require airlines to compensate passengers and cover expenses for meals
and hotels when airlines are at fault for travel disruptions.    
  
A year ago, no major U.S. airline would guarantee any compensation
beyond the price of just the ticket.  Thanks to President Biden’s
urging, 9 major airlines cover hotels, 10 airlines cover meals, and 10
airlines now rebook passengers for free.   
  
During the State of the Union, President Biden also called on airlines
to guarantee free — fee-free family seating, and several major airlines
rose to the occasion, including American Airlines, Alaska Airlines,
Frontier Airlines, and United Airlines.    
  
These announcements build on the Biden-Harris administration’s efforts
to promote competition in the American economy and lower costs for
hardworking Americans.  
  
With that, Chris, the floor is yours.  
  
Q    Sure.  I wanted to see if the President has been briefed on the
investigation into the shooting in Texas, allegations there may have
been ties to white supremacists or white supremacist ideology involved. 
What updates has the President received on that?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Just a few things about the shooting — the horrible
shooting that we saw.  Eight Americans, including children, were killed
this weekend in the latest act of gun violence to devastate — to
devastate our nation.  Several others are still fighting for their
lives.  
  
The President and the First Lady are praying for the victims that — that
are injured, their families, and for the broader community in Allen,
Texas.  And we are grateful to the first responders who acted quickly
and courageously to save lives.  
  
We have federal, state, and law enforcement — local law enforcement are
working closely together to investigate — continuing to investigate this
attack.  
  
Over the weekend, as you all know, the President directed federal
agencies to provide any additional needed support to the local community
there.   
  
As far as — as far as the shooter, it is an ongoing investigation, and
so I would certainly refer you to the federal law — federal, state, and
local law enforcement who are coordinating to investigate the attack.  
  
But broadly speaking, as it relates to the right-wing organization that
he was connected to — or has been reported to be connected to — we have
spoken out consistently about the concerning rise in hate-fueled
violence in this country.  
  
And as you know, the President has talked about this in great length,
including in discussing how we need to restore the soul of this nation. 
And so that’s why the President directed homeland security team on his
first day in office to begin developing what began — what became the
first-ever National Strategy for Countering Domestic Terrorism. 

The President continues to certainly stay abreast and briefed on the
situation, but certainly not going to get ahead of the investigation
that’s currently happening on the ground.

Q    And which right-wing organization are you referring to?  And,
specifically, has the President been briefed on possible, you know,
reasons for the attack?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  As I just stated, the President continues to — to be
briefed on what’s going on on the ground.  I’m not going to go beyond
what the reporting is to the ties to right-wing organization.  I’m just
saying, more broadly, what we have done in this administration the last
two years, how seriously this President takes it. 

You heard him speak many times about the soul of the nation and the
importance of fighting for the soul of the nation.  And that’s something
that he’s going to continue to work on.  Homeland Security, clearly, has
a team put in place that the President directed them to — to — to — to —
to lead on his first full day of office. 

Q    Also, a government employee union is arguing a lawsuit that the
debt limit unconstitutional.  What is the White House’s response to
this?  And does the White House welcome this lawsuit, given how it could
affect negotiations?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m not going to speak to any ongoing lawsuit.

Q    Then one last thing.  The Amba- — Ambassador Burns has met with the
Chinese foreign minister.  It’s a high-level meeting; the highest since
the President met with President Xi.   Could this, you know, signal an
unfreezing of communication?  And, you know, could the Secretary of
State’s visit get back on track?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, as we’ve spoken — and I’m going to get to your
last question first — the — Secretary Blinken has said this as well: He
— his visit to PRC will be rescheduled when we — when — when conditions
allow, when we believe the time is right. 

We anticipate that there are a number of engagement that U.S. official —
officials in due course.  We’ve talked about Secretary of Treasury, the
Secretary of Commerce also visiting China at some point when we believe
the time is right. 

And we have always called — to your first question now, Chris — we have
always called for reliable channels of communication between the United
States and the PRC.  And so I’ll just leave it there for now.

Go ahead, Mary.

Q    Leader McConnell has made it pretty clear that there’s little room
for the Senate to be involved in negotiations over the debt limit, that
this has to be worked out between the President and the Speaker.  What
does the President make of McConnell’s hands-off approach here?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, we’ve been very clear.  Look, there shouldn’t
be negotiations on the debt — on the debt limit.  This is something that
they should get to regular order and get to work on.  We should not have
House Republicans manufacturing a crisis on something that has been done
78 times since 1960. 

This is their constitutional duty.  Congress must act.  That’s what the
President is going to make very clear with — with the leaders tomorrow. 

Congress must avoid default without conditions — without conditions — as
they did three times before in the last administration.  Re- — Democrats
joined Republicans, put their po- — politics aside — Democrats did — and
made sure that that occurred, that happened. 

So this is — the President is not going to, you know, change course
here.  We’ve been very, very clear that they need to do — they need to
do their job.

Q    What I’m getting at is that the President has a good relationship
with Mitch McConnell.  You know, they have been through this before,
certainly.  His relationship, by the President’s own admission, with
McCarthy is not very strong.  They have not done this before.  So the
fact that Mitch McConnell is — is taking a bit of a back seat here and
saying that this is something that has to be worked out between the
President and Speaker, is that a problem for the President?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  The Leader — well, Leader McConnell is going to be
here tomorrow.  He’s actually going to be joining the other three
leaders with the President to have a conversation about how important it
is for the — for the Congress to do their job.  He’s actually going to
be here to have this discussion. 

Look, I’m not going to speak for Leader McConnell.  All I can tell you
is what the President has said over and over again: When it comes to —
when it comes to the debt limit, we should not default, we should not be
a deadbeat nation.  We have never been a deadbeat nation.  We’ve always
— Congress has always done the right thing, done their constitutional
duty, and gotten this done. 

This is a — they are manufacturing — House Republicans are manufacturing
a crisis.  They should get back to regular order, which is dealing with
the debt limit, as Congress must do.

Go ahead.

Q    And —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, I’m so- — go ahead.  Go ahead, Mary.

Q    Just a super quick one on Title 42.  Secretary Mayorkas has said
that he’s not worried about Title 42 expiring, that you are prepared,
that he feels confident.  Is the President confident that you are doing
everything you can to be prepared for this incoming surge?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We are confident that with the tools that we have in
front of us, that we are doing everything that we can.  We have a robust
multiagency plan to humanely manage the border through enforcement,
deterrence, and diplomacy.  And we’re implementing that plan with our
regional partners using the few tools we have remaining because, again,
Congress has failed to act. 

The President had — has taken action on this issue of the border since
day one — since day one.  And what we’re seeing from Republican
officials, what we’re seeing from Congress — Republicans in Congress —
is they want to play politics.  That’s what they want to do.

They want to play politics and actually not deal with an issue that we —
that has challenged us for decades.  This is nothing new.  But it has
challenged us for decades.  And so the President is doing everything
that he can in his power, but he needs Congress to act.

Go ahead.

Q    What are the President’s expectations for the substance of the
meeting tomorrow?  He’s got a very hardened position, as you have
articulated.  Speaker McCarthy has as well.  Do you expect that there
will be some form of trying to move the ball?  And will the American
people have a chance to see any of this through our presence — the pool
— or the President being willing to take questions about the meeting or
anything like that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, there’s going to be a pool spray at the top
for all of you.  And — and so, clearly, you will be able to capture at
the top the meeting.  It’s going to be in the Oval Office.  So I can
share all of that with — with all of you.  And it’ll be at 4:00 p.m.
tomorrow.

So you have that information of the when, where, what, and why.

The President — we’ve been very clear, and he’s going to make it clear:
Congress — it’s Congress’s constitutional duty to act, to prevent
default.  That’s what the President is going to be very clear about. 
And that’s what we hope.  That’s what we hope comes out of this, is that
Speaker McCarthy does the right thing — something that he did three
times — three times in the last administration.  
  
Q    Being present in a room together, is there an expectation that that
simple act of coming together and being in the Oval Office will somehow
move the ball?  Because what you’re talking about is the same position
the President has held for a while and McCarthy has too.  So do you have
an expectation of movement?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I want to step back for a second.  And I really
appreciate the question.  
  
But for — let’s look at this for the American people who are trying to
figure out — who may not know what is it that we’re talking about.  So
let’s look at it through the American families’ eyes for a second.  
  
If you buy a car, you are expected to pay the monthly payments.  If you
buy a home, you are expected to pay the mortgage every month.  That is
the expectation.  That is the spending that you put forth or spending
that you may have done before, and now you’re paying every month.  
  
If you do not pay your car payment, if you do not pay your mortgage
payment, then your credit is going to be bad.  It’s going to hurt your
credit.  
  
So let’s look at Congress for a second.  This is spending that they’ve
already done, they’ve already spent.  Let’s not forget the $2 trillion
Trump tax cuts that they were willing and happy to vote for.  
  
So we’re telling them — or saying to them: Do your job.  Pay for
something that you’ve already spent on.  That’s it. 

This is spending that has already occurred.  They need to do the right
thing that has been done 78 times since 1960.  It’s that simple.  It is
very, very simple.  It is the right thing to do.  It is their
constitutional duty.  It is not complicated at all.  
  
And so the question is, really, to Speaker McCarthy: Why did you bring
us here?  Why are you manufacturing a crisis that should not exist? 
That is the question for him to answer.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Do you expect the President to arrive at this meeting tomorrow with
any proposals other than a clean debt limit increase?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  The President is going to be as clear as he’s been
these last several months, as clear as I’ve been, as clear as other
administration has been — members of the administration has been, which
is: They need to do their job.  They need to get this done on behalf of
the American people and do their jobs.  
  
Q    And does he think that he can successfully convince Kevin McCarthy
to change his position in this meeting?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  They’re going to have a conversation.  The President
is going to make himself very clear, as he’s done for several, several
months now, since almost the beginning of this year.  And he’s going to
be really clear about it.  
  
Look, they’ll also discuss a separate process for budget and
appropriations.  Remember, that’s regular order.  That is the way that
we’re supposed to be doing this — having a negotiation on budget, not
connecting it to the debt ceiling.  That’s not what we’re supposed to be
doing here.  
  
So, you know, the President has laid out a plan to grow the economy and
cut the deficit by $3 trillion over a decade.  He’s actually put forth a
plan that shows how he’s going to cut spending — that’s what he has done
— not tied it to the debt limit, as Speaker McCarthy and House
Republicans have done.  
  
Go ahead, Steven.  
  
Q    So if they are operating on two separate tracks, is there any
signal the President is prepared to give tomorrow that perhaps, when it
comes to the question of fiscal 2024, that perhaps the President would
be willing to accept some sort of federal spending reduction in exchange
for an immediate clean debt ceiling?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, Steve, I hear the question.  I understand the
question.  The President said to Speaker McCarthy, “On March 9th, I’m
going to put forward what I value, what I believe is important to the
American people, how we’re going to move forward in fiscal year 2024.” 
He did that.  He showed how he’s going to decrease the debt by $3
trillion over 10 years — the deficit by $3 trillion over 10 years. 

He did that.  He was very clear.  And he didn’t connect it to the debt
limit.  It’s not something that we’re supposed to be doing.  It is
regular order to have that conversation, without attachment, about
budget and appropriations.  
  
So the President is willing to have that conversation, but they have to
do their job.  They have to pass a clean debt ceiling — debt limit. 
They have to do that.  That is what they supposed to do.  
  
Q    We heard a bit from Secretary Yellen yesterday about this question
of the 14th Amendment.  The President, in his interview on Friday,
suggested that he’s not ready to go there yet.  Can you clarify the
administration’s position on that question?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m — the President has been really clear Congress
must do everything they can to prevent a default.  They must do their
job.  That is the President’s position.  And that will — that’s what
it’s going to continue to be.  
  
Q    Okay, one more question —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, sure.  
  
Q    — and that is, you know, you referred to this — when it comes to
guns, you said this is a “crisis.”  You talk about it being 201st first
mass shootings this year.  The President’s position is known, but can
you describe his engagement on this crisis today?  What’s he doing about
it today?  Because many Americans, they’re certainly happy to hear that
he’s engaged on airline prices and airline compensation, but what about
this issue that many Americans agree with you is a crisis?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, many Americans should know and understand — and
hopefully — and I’ll repeat it here — that the President has signed more
than a dozen executive actions to deal with this issue, more than any
other President, in a historical fashion, because he has said that gun
violence is an epidemic.  He has said that; he has called it that.  
  
This is a President that has worked on this issue as a senator, as Vice
President, and as President.  He has done everything that he can, using
the tools that are in front of him, to deal with this issue.  
  
Now, will there be more work to do and more things that he can do? 
We’ll see.  We’re always looking for how do we move this along to a way
— to a place where our schools are safer, our communities are safer. 
This is so incredibly important.  
  
We — you know, I mentioned, you know, 14- — more than 14,000 of our fel-
— fellow citizens have lost their lives.  One is too much.  One person
losing their life is too much.  
  
And so, look, the President has done the work.  He’s asking Congress to
do their job.  Let’s do some legislation — more legislation — on top of
the bipartisan legislation that he was able to sign this summer.  So
let’s do more.  Let’s really do something that we can make sure that
this is long — no longer an epidemic in our — in our communities and in
our schools.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  After the Louisville shooting in April, the
President, as he did yesterday, called on Congress to ban assault
weapons.  He made clear, as you just did now, that this is a crisis, and
he pointed to the previous executive actions that you just talked
about.  But we didn’t really see anything else from the President.  So
if this is a crisis, why aren’t we seeing the President talk about this
more forcefully?  Why isn’t he out around in the country rallying
people, putting pressure on members of Congress?  When are we going to
see that kind of engagement?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  More than two dozen executive actions that he’s taken,
more than any other President — more than any Pre- — other President. 
He’s been in the administration, as President, for a little bit more
than two years.  Two dozen actions that he’s taken.   
  
He’s had to visit — we’re about to, sadly, have the anniversary of the
Buffalo shooting, and then Uvalde.  Two places that the President went
to comfort the families who were — who lost their children and who lost
their loved ones.  And from there, he continued to do the work.   
  
He signed — we signed — he signed, as I mentioned to Steve, as you all
know and covered, a bipartisan — bipartisan piece of legislation, the
Safer Communities Act.  So this is a President that has taken action.  
  
And the sad part — and I get the questions that are coming to me, as
they should be; I am the spokesperson for the President.  But where’s
Congress’s responsibility on this?  Where’s their responsibility on
this?  We need legislation.  
It is frustrating — and I am sure you all are frustrated too — to talk
about this over and over again, one — averaging out to once — one mass
shooting a week.  That’s not okay.   
  
Q    But I guess the question is: Other than saying in these statements
after every mass shooting, “Congress needs to do this,” what is the
President doing to actually get Congress to act?  Because we don’t see,
from a public-facing perspective, much other than these statements as of
late.  And the President himself has said that he believes he’s reached
the extent of his executive authorities.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Right.  That’s right.  Congress needs to act.   
  
He’s using his bully pulpit.  He’s being very, very clear — talked about
it during the State of the Union, talked about it many times before —
about the horrors of gun violence in our community, in our schools, in
our temples, in our places of worship.  As we continue to see, this is a
President who has been incredibly vocal — and not just him; the Vice
President, the First Lady.   
  
I mean, Jeremy, I appreciate the question, but Congress has to act. 
There has to be legislation coming from the other side of Pennsylvania
Avenue.  There has to be.  Two dozen pieces of executive action in two
years that this President has done.  Historic.  That is historic.   
  
So, you know, look, I want the American people to know that this is an
epidemic that — as they know themselves, some of them having suffered
potentially gun violence in their community or in their families.  This
is a President that cares about making sure that their communities are
safe and they feel safe with their kids going to school.   
  
So we’re going to continue to use the bully pulpit.  He’s going to do
that to call out Congress.  And they have to act.   
  
Go ahead, Francesca.   
  
Q    And then, just on the debt ceiling right quick.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    In terms of the meeting tomorrow, what you’ve described so far is
the President going into this meeting, reiterating the position that we
all know he has held publicly for a while.  House Speaker McCarthy will
likely do the same thing on his end.  Is that really conducive to any
kind of progress?  Do you think there will be any progress out of that?
 And is the President going to go into this with any kind of proposal
about how to formalize the budget and spending process, for example, to
try and move the ball forward?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  The fact that there’s a meeting in the Oval Office
with the four leaders tomorrow I think is an important thing.  I think
that shows the American people how important it is.  That shows that the
President wants to bring them together to have this conversation.   
  
The President has been very clear: This is Congress’s constitutional
duty to take action to not default.  He’s going to continue to reiterate
that, as he should — as he should make very clear that Congress needs to
act.  That is what he’s going to do.   
  
You’re — you all — some of you will have an opportunity to see that at
the top of the meeting — the four leaders together with the President. 
And he’s going to be very clear about this.  He’s not going to mince
words that — he has not in the past several months.   
  
So I’m not going to get ahead of the meeting.  I’m not going to get
ahead of what’s going to come out of the meeting.  
  
I think — we believe it’s an important step that the American people are
going to see, that you all are going to see, and that they’re going to
have — a conversation that’s important.   
  
Go ahead, Francesca.  
  
Q    Thank you, Karine.  Picking up there though, the White House says
that on Wednesday the President will travel to New York to talk about
the pri- — talk about House Republicans’ debt limit bill and how it’ll
roll back spending in areas that the White House says will be
detrimental.  So doesn’t the framing of that event, though, suggest that
you don’t expect there to be much movement tomorrow?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, they still have a — they still have a — a budget
or a plan connected to the debt — to their debt limit.  Right?  They —
that’s what’s connected to it.  So they’ve been very clear, and they
shared with us how they see spending cuts.  And we’re going to call that
out.  We’re certainly going to call out how they want to — how they want
to cut programs for veterans, healthcare.  It’s going to be
detrimental.   
  
Cutting wasteful spending on Big Pharma — right? — is what we put
forth.  You know, more than $200 billion.  And Big Oil — $31 billion.   
  
So we are making sure that we’re cutting wasteful spending, and so we
put forth a bill or a plan for fiscal year twenty-twenty- — 2024 that
has been very clear.  And they’re doing the opposite — healthcare,
public safety, law enforcement, education.  And that doesn’t reduce the
deficit, not at all. 

So we’re going to be — they still put that out there.  We’re going to
call that out and make sure that the American people understand what the
— what it is that the President is going to fight for on behalf of the
American people. 

So we’ll have that debate.  Right?  He’s happy to have that debate.  But
when it comes to the debt ceiling, when it comes to the debt limit, they
got to do their job.

Q    To put a fine point on the sp- — on the spending talks, when would
the President imagine that separate process beginning?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have a timeline for you.  The President said
he’s happy to have that conversation, happy to have that debate. 
Clearly, that will have to happen.  I just don’t have a timeline for
you. 

We have been very clear.  We’ve laid out our budget for fiscal year
2024.  I just mentioned the $3 trillion cuts and — that he has to — the
$3 trillion that he has put forward to — to reduce the deficit over 10
years. 

And — and so we’re just going to continue to be clear about that.  But I
just don’t have a conversation that’s going to happen on — particularly
on the spending.

We have to get — we have to deal with the debt limit.  We must — we must
deal with the debt limit.

Karen, go ahead.

Q    Just to follow up on some of the questions Jeremy was asking.  You
know, the President did deliver remarks today.  He did not mention the
shooting in Texas. 

You know, you talk about using the bully pulpit.  But is he fully using
the bully pulpit?  Is he fully using the weight of the office to push
for these actions that he keeps saying he wants Congress to move forward
on?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yes.  I think two dozen executive actions speaking on
it over and over again.  He’s been very clear about the epidemic that we
see in gun violence across the country.  He has been clear not just as
President, as Vice President, as senator.  And he’ll continue to do
that, not just him — the Vice President, the First Lady, as well.

We have used the full weight of the administration to do all that we
can, use the tools that we have to deal with this issue. 

But the fact remains, Karen, is that we need legislation.  We need
federal legislation to deal with this issue.  We have seen some state
legislation, as you know, banning assault — assault weapons, which is
incredibly important.  And I’ve lifted those up from here.  So there are
states out there who are doing the job, doing the work to keep their
communities, their constituency safe.  But we need federal legislation. 

That — it is — it is truly a non-starter.  We need them, on the other
side of, again, Pennsylvania, to do their job.

Q    You mentioned Buffalo, you mentioned Uvalde; the President traveled
there.  You said it’s frustrating to talk about this over and over
again. 

Is it frustrating for the President?  And is that part of the
calculation that you’re not talk- — having him talk about every
shooting, because of the frequency that these are happening?

How do you make the decision of where he goes and which events he talks
about, because of how much they’re happening right now?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:   So in case I’m not clear: It is frustrating for the
President, it is frustrating for the First Lady, it is frustrating for
the Vice President, it is frustrating for the Second Gentleman that
there is this gun violence epidemic going on, which is why the President
has signed two dozen executive actions to try to do everything that he
can from his perch, from — from the — from the executive — executive
perch, to do everything that he can.

And so, again, we’re going to call on Congress to act.  They have to. 
They have to.

I just — I just said 14,000 Americans — 14,000 Americans have dealt with
this type of violence — gun violence across the country.

This is the only country in the world that has this going on right now. 
The only country that has to deal with gun violence, mass shootings in
this way.  That shouldn’t be.

Go ahead.

Q    Thank you, Karine.  I have two foreign policy questions.  First, on
Syria.  Does the administration still consider President Assad a war
criminal?  And would Arab countries that normalize with him be subjected
to U.S. sanctions?

And then I have another question.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So let me — let me just lay out, because I know you’re
asking about the Arab League, so let me just lay out our position on
this.

Any — any specific questions on the actions that they took, I certainly
would — would refer you to Arab League for questions on their decision. 
But more broadly, as the Arab League Secretary General said over the
weekend, this decision does not mean all Arab League countries have
normalized with Syria, and this does not mean that Syrian crisis is
resolved. 

Our partners tell us they intend to use direct engagement with the Assad
regime to push for progress on priorities, such as reaching a solution
to the Syrian crisis, expanding humanitarian access, and creating safe
conditions for refugees to return, ensuring ISIS cannot resurge, and
countering captagon trafficking from Syria. 

While we are skeptical of Assad’s willingness to take the steps
necessary to resolve Syria’s — Syria’s crisis, we are aligned with our
Arab partners on the ultimate objectives. 

We have been consulting with our partners about their plans and making
clear that we will not normalize relations with the Assad regime and
that our sanctions remain in full effect. 

We continue to <s>become</s> \[believe\] that — a political — a
political solution, as outlined in the U.N. Security Council Resolution
2254, remains the only viable solution to the conflict.

As far as — as sanctions, again, we stressed — we have stressed to
regional partners engaging with Syrian regime that credible steps to
improve the humanitarian and <s>secretary</s> \[security\] situation for
Syrians should be front and center in any engagement. 

We have also made clear to our partners across the region that our
sanctions, including those mandated under the Caesar Act, and various
executive orders remain firmly in place.  We are consulting with
partners about their activity so they do not risk sanctions
consequences.  
  
We remain committed to upholding, again, the Caesar Act, even as we
continue to work with our Arab partners to identify ways they can
provide assistance to Syrians that is in line with the U.S. law.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    I have another question.  Just quickly. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  Yeah.

Q    I saw the statement you released on Jake Sullivan’s strip to Saudi
Arabia.  He’s meeting with his counterparts — UAE, India, and the
Saudis.  Is this mainly or partly to counter China’s influence in the
Middle East?  And how do you describe U.S.-Saudi relations as we
stand?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So I would say this: the National Security Advisor
regularly meets with leaders and senior officials from countries around
the world to advance and protect the interests of the United States. 
This is not unusual; this is actually very common.  
  
As you may have mentioned, he also met with the UAE national security
advisor.  He also met with the national security advisor of India.   
  
So we continue to work with Saudi Arabia on a host of U.S. interests,
including strengthening the truce in Yemen, and a range of other
issues.  And so I’ll just leave it there.  
  
I’ll go around.  Let me go to the back.  Actually, I haven’t called on
you.  And then I’ll come to you.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  Could you confirm that Biden is having a telephone
call with the Mexican leader, López Obrador, tomorrow and what the
topics are?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t — don’t have a call to confirm at this time.  
  
Q    Okay.  And do you have any color about who else is going to be in
the room for the debt ceiling negotiations tomorrow and whether Biden
will have —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I wouldn’t call it a “debt ceiling negotiations.”  
  
Q    Talks.  Conversation.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I would call it — I would call it a conversation
between the four leaders and the President.  
  
Q    And will Biden speak after that meeting in any way to the press?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have anything else to add on his schedule.  As
I mentioned, this — the conversation will happen at 4:00 p.m. tomorrow. 
It will be in the Oval Office.  There will be a pool spray.  It’ll be
the four leaders and the President.  
  
Q    Just them, or is anybody else in there?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  That’s all we have at the time, that’s going to be —
at the moment, that’s going to be in the meeting.  
  
Go ahead, Aurelia.  
  
Q    Thank you.  You just said this gun violence epidemic isn’t
happening anywhere else in the world.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  The mass shootings that we’re seeing.  
  
Q    Yeah, the mass shootings.  I mean, in a country like Serbia, they
had two mass shootings in 48 hours.  Immediately, the government
announced sweeping new legislation to disarm the country.  This is the
most powerful country in the world.  And what we have, as you said, is
executive orders, but mostly, like, statements and flags flying at
half-mast.  
  
Is it a sense that it’s not only frustration, but that there isn’t
anything more the President can do, and anything he would do would harm
his campaign?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  What’s your last part of the question?  
  
Q    I mean, is this the sense that he’s not speaking more about it
because he feels there’s nothing that can be done because Congress is
not in a position to do anything and that it wouldn’t help if he went,
you know, more out and spoke more about this and engaged more about
this?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, the President is asking for Congress to act
because we need legislation.  We need federal legislation to deal with
this issue.  
  
And to your point, the President has taken action as President in taking
executive action — more than two dozen — because he’s taken this very
seriously — more than any other President.  Historic amount of actions. 
I think that should tell you how seriously this President takes it.  I
think that should show you how he has made this a priority.   
  
I think this also should show you that he sees this as an epidemic — gun
violence that’s happening across the country, in our communities, in our
schools.  And he wants and he’s going to continue to call for Congress
to put forth real legislation banning assault weapons, because we should
not have weapons of war on the street; making it — you know, making it
tougher to make sure that it doesn’t get — guns doesn’t get into the
wrong hands.  And so that’s what the President is going to continue to
call for.   
  
Obviously — obviously, he takes this seriously.  But he is — he has said
himself — I think Jeremy was saying this to me — he’s limited in what he
can do.  He is.  That’s why Congress needs to take federal — federal
legislation.  They need to take action on this, and so we’re going to
continue to call for it.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  Another question on the debt limit, to follow
Francesca.  What should congressional leaders take from the fact that
he’s already scheduled this meeting on Wednesday to talk about the debt
limit?  Is he suggesting that he already believes that he’s going to
leave these talks without a solution, without a path to avoid default?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No.  I’ve — what I — what I was saying earlier before
— I’m not going to get ahead of the conversation that they’re going to
have tomorrow.  The President is going to be very clear.  But the
President is also going to lay out what — what House Republicans have
put forth.  
  
Remember, there is this plan, this — this plan that’s connected — should
not be connected to the debt limit, but that they have connected —
that’s going to hurt American families make ends meet.  Veterans —
veterans program, healthcare programs, Meals on Wheels — those are real
things that’s going to — that they’re suggesting to cut 22 percent.  
  
So the President, of course, he’s going to do what he always does and
call that out.  Nothing new, nothing different. 

They’re going to have a conversation tomorrow.  He’s going to make clear
where he stands on the congress- — Congress, making sure that they do
their job, do their constitutional duty.  We’ll see what happens.  
  
Q    But doesn’t this speech suggest that he thinks that they’re not
going to find a way to separate those two or to avoid default?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m not going to get ahead of a meeting that’s
scheduled for 4:00 p.m. tomorrow.  I’m just not.  I have been very clear
what the President is going to do, what he’s going to focus on, what
he’s going to make sure and make very loud and clear what he said to
you.  He’s going to said it — say it to them in the Oval Office.  
  
Congress must do their job.  They must take care of making sure that we
do not default.  We should not become a deadbeat nation.  
  
Seventy-eight times since 1960.  Seventy-eight times since 1960.  Three
times in the last administration — a Republican administration.  
  
Go ahead, Anita.  
  
Q    Thanks.  I have two foreign policy questions.  First of all, the
Taliban has agreed with China and Pakistan to extend the Belt — the Belt
and Road Initiative to Afghanistan, which potentially brings in billions
of dollars in infrastructure projects to modernize Afghanistan, which we
know is the Taliban’s vibe.  How concerned is the administration about
China’s influence in Africa?  And what can the U.S. do to counter
this?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So we’ve always been very clear that we’ve — we’ve
certainly have had concerns.  But our — our — we’ve been very clear that
our — our movement — how we move forward with China is through
competition, not conflict.   
  
We’re certainly not going to comment on — on conversations and
relationships that other countries have with China.  We’re going to
focus on how we’re moving forward and how we’re trying to make sure that
we continue to be competitive — why the CHIPS and Science Act was so
important.   
  
And we’ve shown our competition by bringing manufacturing jobs here,
creating more than 800,000 manufacturing jobs.  And that’s going to be
our focus.  Clearly, we want to make sure that our — the lines of
communication with China is open.  I just — I just laid that — how
important that is.  But I’m not going to speak to other — other
relationships that they have specifically with other countries and what
deals have come out of that.  
  
Q    And quickly to Tehran, the government of Iran has hanged two men
for quote, unquote, “blasphemy” because of their social media posts. 
How does the administration see this?  And do you think you might react
to this?  And if so, how?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, we always call out human rights violations. 
That is something that the President has conversations with — with —
with leaders that he meets with — our allies and partners and anyone
else that he has — has conversations with — heads of states.   
  
I have not spoken specifically to our team here about that particular
incident.  That is certainly devastating to hear.  And just not going to
get ahead of at — of what I just said without talking to our teams.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you, Karine.  The President — you know, you have laid out all
the things that the White House wants to tackle, from the country
careening toward a debt limit crisis, to, you know, the southern border
preparing for up to 12,000 illegal crossings a day, potentially, after
Title 42 ends this week.  You opened the briefing talking about the
crisis of gun violence.   
  
Why is the President talking about meal vouchers for canceled flights
and holding a movie night at the White House with all those things going
on?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Because he’s President, and there are multiple things
that the President do- — does.  And he can talk about the potential
manufactured crisis that House Republicans have put forth and that could
happen if they don’t get back to regular order.   
  
He can talk about how he’s delivering for families.  I think the
airlines announcement that the President made is incredibly important to
American families across the country.  I hope you think so as well.   
  
I mean, when you think about what — what American families have to pay
out of pocket because of things that are not their fault — this is
important.   
  
You asked me many times what the President is doing to lower cost for
the American people.  We just heard from the President.   
  
So that is one way that he is using and making sure that the
administration works for American families.  He should talk about that. 
He should talk about those things.  He should be able to do multiple
things as a President, and that’s what you’re seeing from him today.  
  
Q    But he talked about, you know, Memorial Day flights, but that’s
three weeks away from now.  He said, you know, preparing, looking ahead
to Memorial Day Weekend.  So it causes the question of, you know, is the
President really focused on today’s biggest issues when everyone in here
is asking about Title 42, the debt ceiling, mass shooting over the
weekend, and we didn’t hear the President talk about any of those
things.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Regular American families — everyday families are
thinking about Memorial Day Weekend.  They are.  They’re thinking about
how are they going to travel with their family, with their kids.  They
care about what the President said today.  So that does matter.   
  
Title 42 — what’s happening on Thursday, the lifting of Title 42, we’ve
been talking about it over and over again for the past several weeks,
about how we’re preparing for the lift of Title 42, the programs that we
put in place without the help of House Republicans or House —
Republicans in Congress more general.  
  
And the debt limit — something that we’ve been talking about for months
— again, a manufactured crisis.  There is a process here.  Republicans
are refusing to use the process.  They —  
  
Q    I just hear (inaudible) a disconnect —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — are refusing to use the process.   
  
There’s no disconnect.  
  
Q    — between him being the —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No —  
  
Q    — the uniter-in-chief and you guys —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  There’s — there’s no —  
  
Q    — “calling out,” as you always talk about it.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  There’s no — there’s no disconnect.  There’s no
disconnect.  It is very clear.   
  
The President can do multiple things at the same time.  He can call out
ways that the American people are being harmed — harmed by not —
Congress House Republicans refusing to do the job that they’re supposed
to do — something that they have done, Congress has done more broadly 78
times since 1960.  Yes, he’s going to call that out.  That’s regular
order to do your job, to do your constitutional duty.  
  
And then talk about what we’re doing to make it a little bit easier for
American families to travel.  Yeah.  You know what?  Some regular folks
— regular folks are thinking about Memorial Day.  Some everyday
Americans are thinking about how they’re going to visit their
grandparents, how they’re going to visit family members, how are they
going to get around the country around Memorial Day weekend.  That is
incredibly important to American families.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you.  On the spending cuts, is there anything that the
Republicans have proposed that the President would be open to?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Say that one more time?  
  
Q    I understand that the spending cut conversation is separate from
the debt ceiling conversation, but are there any spending provisions
that the Republicans have proposed — spending cuts — that Biden would be
open to?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, the President is willing to have a
conversation with House Republicans, with the Speaker — a separate
conversation on their budget proposal.   
  
So we’ll have that conversation at some point.  What he wants to make
sure is that the debt limit gets taken care of, that they do their
constitutional duty.   
  
The President himself has put together an Invest in America plan that he
calls — that’s going to grow the economy from the middle out, the bottom
up, while reducing the deficit, as I mentioned many times, by nearly $3
trillion, by making the wealthiest and big corporations pay their fair
share, and cutting wasteful spending on Big Pharma and Big Oil.  That’s
what he put together.   
  
House Republicans want to cut.  They want to cut and gut investment in
veterans care, Meals on Wheels, education, public safety, and take care
— take healthcare and food assistance away from millions of people.   
  
Someone — one of your colleagues just asked me, “Why is the President
talking about Meals on Wheels?”  That is so important to American
families.  These cuts — these 22 percent cuts that they put forward
actually — for American families across the country, it helps them make
ends meet.  It makes them — it helps them make ends meet.  
  
So the President should talk about that.  But I’m not going to get ahead
of the President on what he’s going to — as it come — as it relates to
the budget and spending and the appropriation process, which is regular
order, which is something that we should negotiate about.  I’m just not
going to get ahead of the President right now.  
  
Go ahead, T- — Ted.  Todd?  Sorry.  (Laughs.)  Todd.  Sorry, Todd. 
Sorry.  
  
Q    Thanks.  I have a — I have couple of Texas questions, if you don’t
mind.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Sure.  
  
Q    On the shooting in Allen, has the President reached out to Governor
Abbott about this to talk about ways that they might find common ground
on reducing gun violence?  Is there any common ground that you think
there might be between them?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:   No, it’s a good question.  I don’t have any calls to
read out at the — at this time.   
  
Look, the President has been very clear about this issue.  He’ll
continue to be very clear about this epidemic that we’re seeing across
the country.  He’ll continue to call on Congress to act.  
  
We’ve lifted up — as I mentioned earlier before to one of your
colleagues — some of the states who have done some real work on dealing
with gun violence.  I don’t have — I don’t have any calls to read out to
you at this time with the governor.  
  
Q    He’s not — he’s not going to Texas?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I just don’t have anything to read out at this time.  
  
Q    On — and on the border, Governor Abbott announced just a little
while ago he’s sending another 450 National Guard to the border.  He
said some pretty tough words for the President.  He calls it a
“Biden-made crisis.”  He said the cartels are working in collaboration
with the President and the federal government to facilitate illegal
border crossings.  And Governor Abbott said, quote, “We are being
overrun by our own federal government.  Texas is being undermined by our
own federal government in our efforts to secure our border.”  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, you know, there’s a way to handle those type of
announcements — and the governor knows this — and — and in order to be
helpful to what’s happening, and that’s by coordinating with federal
authorities, something that he refuses to do, something that he doesn’t
do.  
  
But, you know, his first call always tends to be, when it comes to this
issue, is — has been — when it comes to this issue, dealing with the
federal government — has been to Fox News.  That’s what he does.  That’s
where his first call goes.  That’s where he likes — that’s how — that
tells you what he’s up to.  
  
This is just about political theater for him.  This is not really
dealing with this issue.  It’s about creating more chaos.  It’s about
creating more confusion at the border.  That’s what he wants to do. 
That’s what he chooses to do.  
  
And that’s not what we want to do.  We’re see- — we’re do — we’re u- —
we are — put into place a robust plan, multiple a- — multiple agencies. 
You’ve seen Mayorkas on the border very recently.  He was on Sunday’s
show just this Sunday to talk about what we’re doing.  The DHS has been
very clear.  The State Department has — has had press conferences.  The
Pentagon briefed on this just last week.   
  
We’re using the tools that we have in front of us to deal with this
issue.  Republican officials want to do something else.  They want to
campaign on this issue.  They want to do political stunts.  That’s what
we’re seeing from the governor — governor of Texas.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Beyond Title 42, do you have any other updates for us yet on the
end of the public health emergency and anything in the healthcare sphere
that the administration is seeking to address?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So we’ll certainly have more to share as it relates to
PHE, the public health — the public health emergency.   
  
As you know, we are at a different place of the pandemic.  Over the last
two years, this administration has made significant progress in our
ability to manage COVID-19 in a way that protects life and health ahe- —
and no longer meaningful disrupts the way that we live our lives.  
  
As you all saw, the World Health Organization, just a couple of days
ago, announced that COVID-19 pandemic no longer qualifies as a global
health emergency.  And so, in anticipation of the COVID-19 public health
emergency ending in just a couple days, on Thursday, the administration
has been preparing for months and taken significant steps to ensure all
Americans have continued access to life-saving protections, such as
vaccine treatments, tests.  And we have worked to ensure that nation —
that the nation is well prepared to manage the risk of a virus going
around.  
  
Look, the — what we have seen this past two years is because of the work
that this President has done to put forth a comprehensive plan to deal
with COVID-19.  It is — we have had the largest vaccination — adult
vaccination program in U.S. history: over 270 million people, Americans,
receiving at least one shot of a COVID-19.  COVID-19 deaths have — have
declined by 95 percent.  New COVID-19 hospitalizations are down by 88
percent.  And COVID-19 cases — deaths globally are at least the lowest
level since the start of the pandemic — pandemic.  
  
So, it’s not over.  But, as we know, the worst days are behind us.  We
are in a different place of the pandemic.  And so we’ll have more to
share in the next day or two on how we’re going to move forward and more
specifically.  
  
Q    And does that include on the operations internally in this building
as well as the country at large?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have anything to share yet on White House
protocol as it relates to this news on — on Thursday, what’s going to
happen on Thursday.  But as soon as we have more to share, we certainly
will share that.  
  
Q    All right.  Thank you, Karine.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  Thank you, everybody.  I’ll see you
tomorrow.  
  
3:46 P.M. EDT
