---
date: '2023-05-20'
modified_time: 2023-05-21 08:31:48-04:00
published_time: 2023-05-20 16:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2023/05/20/background-press-call-previewing-day-three-of-the-g7-summit/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Background Press Call Previewing Day Three of the G7\_Summit"
---
 
Via Teleconference

8:03 A.M. EDT

MODERATOR: Good evening, everyone. Thanks for joining the call. We’re
going to preview of the day ahead for tomorrow here in Hiroshima.

As a reminder, this call is on background, attributable to a senior
administration official, and it’s embargoed until 5:00 a.m. Japan
Standard Time on May 21st, which is 4:00 p.m. Eastern on May 20th.

For your awareness, not for your reporting, on the call here tonight we
have \[senior administration official\]. He’s going to have a few words
at the top, and then we’ll take your questions.

\[Senior administration official\], over to you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: Thanks, \[moderator\]. Hey, everybody.
Good evening. Good afternoon. Another packed day here in Hiroshima.

I think, as you all know, President Biden participated in a number of
important sessions, and we released the G7 communiqué, which hopefully
you’ve seen. If not, it’s a — it’s on the web.

I do want to focus, if I could, on a couple of points that the G7
committed to today.

First, we made clear that we are united on the core elements that
underpin our approaches to China. While certainly as individual nations,
we will obviously each pursue our own relationships with China, we do
stand together as G7 partners on a set of core shared principles.

Second, are deepening our cooperation on economic security and
resilience, which includes strengthening and diversi- — diversifying our
supply chains, launching a new coordination platform on economic
coercion to develop early warnings and to be able to deter and counter
economic coercion, affirming the need to protect emerging technologies
from being used to threaten our national security. And we all
underscored, of course, that tools like targeted controls on outbound
investment may be important as part of these efforts.

Third, we launched a Clean Energy Action Plan, which underscores the
need for investment and incentives to build a clean energy economy of
the future and create jobs at home, around the world. And this will
provide broad G7 endorsement of the kind of actions that we’ve been
taking with the Inflation Reduction Act.

And finally, we are taking steps to strengthen our partnership with
developing and emerging market countries. The G7 leaders gathered to
highlight the work that we’ve all done through the Partnership for
Global Infrastructure and Investment, which, as you know, was launched
at the last G7 in Germany last year, to mobilize financing for quality
infrastructure around the world, including an announcement that the
United States has mobilized $30 billion toward this goal.

The leaders pledged their mutual support to evolve the multilateral
development banks, and they strengthen their cooperation on global
health and food security, including through a $250 million contribution
by the United States to the Pandemic Fund, which the President just
announced a little bit ago.

Now, he also participated in a meeting with the Quad — with the Quad
leaders this evening — Prime Minister Albanese of Australia; Prime
Minister Kishida here, of course of Japan; Prime Minister Modi of India
as well — to mark the Quad’s progress over the past year. And that
meeting is, I believe, just wrapping up right about now.

Now, turning to tomorrow — another full day — it’ll start off in the
morning, mid-morning, with the G7 working session on Ukraine.

From there, they’ll move to a working session on stable, peaceful — on —
I’m sorry, on a stable, peaceful, prosperous world.

Early in the afternoon, the President will be sitting down with
President Yoon of the Republic of Korea and Prime Minister Kishida to
have a trilateral discussion on trilateral engagement between our three
countries.

This is something that’s been a priority for President Biden since he’s
been in office to improve not only our bilateral alliance with each of
those nations but trilaterally between the three of us across sectors. I
mean, obviously there’s a lot of focus on security, but also on
economics as well and people-to-people ties. So that’ll be a good
session. That’s early in the afternoon.

And then — and then shortly after that, again in the early afternoon, we
do expect that the President will have a bilateral meeting with
President Zelenskyy. Right now, that’s scheduled for a little bit after
two o’clock, and we’ll obviously keep you posted as things get closer.

And, of course, in that meeting, the President will continue to
reiterate the United States’ firm and resolute support for Ukraine going
forward.  
While here, the U.S., in coordination with the G7, delivered a powerful
statement of unity, strength, and commitment in our response to Russia’s
war of aggression.

We took significant steps economically to isolate Russia and to weaken
its ability to wage war. As you saw, we announced upwards of 300 new
sanctions against individuals, entities, vessels, and aircraft. And
these really go after circumvention, financial facilitators, future
energy, and extractive capabilities, as well as other actors that are
helping support Putin’s war.

And President Biden informed his G7 counterparts that the United States
will support a joint effort, as you all heard, to train Ukrainian pilots
on fourth-generation fighter aircraft, which includes F-16s. And there
was an awful lot of effort that went into getting to that — to getting
to that point where we were able to announce the training.

And as you know, there’s still some work to be done to figure out, you
know, when planes will go, how many will go, and from whom. We don’t
have the answers to all that right now. But the muscle movements are in
place, and the discussions are happening. But this was the result of an
awful lot of work, spearheaded, quite frankly, by the National Security
Advisor, Jake Sullivan, who really led those efforts, again, over many
weeks now, to get us to this point.

Also, tomorrow, the President will again make clear that the United
States is going to continue to support Ukraine, as I said, for as long
as it takes on a whole range of issues, not just — I know not just the —
not just the improvements of the capabilities of the Ukrainian air
force.

And with that, we can take some questions.

MODERATOR: Thank you. If you’d like to raise a question, please use the
“raise hand” feature in Zoom.

Trevor, we’ll go to you first. You should be able to unmute yourself.

Q Hey, thanks for taking the question. You know, we’ve already seen
today a lot of strong support from a bunch of different countries for
Zelenskyy, and I’m sure we’ll see a lot more of that tomorrow. Is there
any, kind of, message that China should take away from the strong
support that Ukraine has? Thanks.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: We cer- — Trevor, I think, obviously — I
wouldn’t say it’s a new takeaway. But certainly we would hope that as
the PRC looks at the statements coming out of the G7, certainly what
they’ll hear and see tomorrow, is that the international community is
very much in support of Ukraine and resolved to do that, unified to do
that. Certainly a lot of unity here at the G7.

And we would hope that it would — that China would take away from that
that their influence over Mr. Putin — and they do have influence over
him — there are few foreign leaders who do, and he’s one of them — that
he would use that influence, you know, based on what he hears and sees
here in Hiroshima, that he would be willing to use that influence to
encourage Mr. Putin to stop this war.

And certainly to the degree that they remain interested in a peace
proposal, another thing that we would hope they take away from that is
that the G7 leaders too want to see peace. We want to see an end of the
war. Short of it ending by Russian troops pulling out of Ukraine,
certainly there’s utility in a credible, sustainable, meaningful peace
proposal.

And China could have a role in that. They absolutely could. It’s good
that President Xi talked to President Zelenskyy. It’s good that they’ve
assigned a special envoy to Kyiv for that purpose.

We encourage them to continue to avail themselves of Ukrainian
perspectives here. And if that could lead to some sort of credible peace
proposal that President Zelenskyy could get behind, again, we would say
that’s all to the good.

So, we would hope that President Xi and the PRC extract from what
they’ve been seeing and hearing here over the last couple of days, and
what they’ll see and here tomorrow, is that there’s an awful lot of
resolve to continue to support Ukraine, as the G7 continues to say, for
as long as it takes, and that China could have a meaningful role in
helping end this war, if they’re willing to continue to avail
themselves, again, of Ukrainian perspectives.

I’m sorry, I got a little redundant there. But did that answer your
question?

I guess he’s —

MODERATOR: (Inaudible.)

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: I’m going to take that as a yes.

MODERATOR: Next up we’ll go to Kevin Liptak.

Q Thanks, \[senior administration official\]. There are a number of
leaders here who aren’t in the G7 and haven’t necessarily been as
forthright in their condemnation of Russia as the mem- — actual leaders
of the G7. And I’m just wondering, when those leaders were invited to
the summit, did they know that President Zelenskyy was here, or was that
as much of a surprise to them as it was sort of to the rest of the
world?

And then, secondly, can you confirm that the President will announce a
new security aid or military assistance package for Ukraine tomorrow?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: So, on your first question, President
Zelenskyy was always scheduled to participate in the G7, so his
participation certainly wasn’t a surprise to anybody.

I can’t speak for the degree to which they were all informed
individually about his decision to attend in person. I just wouldn’t
have access to that kind of information about what they knew about his
travel plans and when. I mean, that wouldn’t have been something that we
would have been responsible for informing other nations of. I mean,
Japan is the host.

So I really can’t answer that question with great specificity except to
say, as I did, that his — Zelenskyy’s participation was long, long
scheduled and planned for.

And I don’t have anything to confirm for you. I’ve seen the press
reporting on another Presidential Drawdown Authority package for
Ukraine, and I’m not in a position to confirm that press reporting.

The only thing I would say is that, as you guys all know, we’ve been
doing these about every couple of weeks. And it’s been a couple of weeks
since the last one, and certainly should not come as a surprise to
anybody that PDA packages will continue to — will continue to flow to
Ukraine, again, in keeping with, you know, our commitment to support
them.

So that’s as far as I can go, I’m afraid, on that.

MODERATOR: Thank you. Next up we’ll go to Sebastian. You should be able
to unmute yourself.

Q Hi, \[senior administration official\]. Thank you for doing this. I
might have missed the answer to this because my Internet keeps cutting
in and out. I don’t know if I’m the only one.

But — so, yeah, I did want to ask if you — if you have any more detail
about the arms package, or at least can you confirm there is an arms
package tomorrow and, you know, rough outlines? Is it artillery shells
and that sort of thing that they’ve been getting recently in previous
packages?

And secondly, do you — do you have any details — can you share any
detail at all about how Zelenskyy’s trip, which is extremely long and
went over — presumably went over parts of China — you know, how that was
arranged and whether the U.S., you know, gave any assistance to the
French because he was on their plane?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: So, I’ll go — you know, on your — on
your first one, again, I can’t confirm the press reporting of a —

Q (Inaudible) with intelligence or that sort of thing?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: Oh, I thought — I’m sorry.

So, look, on the — I don’t have any details to share on President
Zelenskyy’s travel arrangements and how that was organized. I think you
heard from Jake this morning that we did not provide transportation for
him. But I don’t think we’re going to want to get into the details of
his travel given that his travel is understandably — it needs to be
handled delicately and with appropriate operational security.

So, I hope you understand. I’m just not going to get into the details of
that. He’s here, but he also still has to get back home, and so I think
we need to be careful there.

On the PDA, I cannot confirm the press reporting about this. I have — I
have nothing to preview for you for tomorrow.

I would just say a couple of things. One, as I said earlier, we’ve been
doing these about once every two weeks, and it’s about been two weeks
since the last one. So, you know, you can expect that Presidential
Drawdown Authority packages will continue to flow to Ukraine and pretty
much apace.

And as for what would be in the next PDA, while I certainly am not — I
won’t get ahead of an announcement that hasn’t been made, I will say
that you should expect to see in — certainly in the — in the — in the
near future of PDAs, the kinds of material, the kinds of weapons, the
kinds of capabilities that we have been providing Ukraine over these
last several weeks, as they have been preparing for the weather to get
better and for the possibility of going on the offense in the — on their
own here in the weeks and months ahead.

And so when you look back at the last several, it does include some of
the things you listed — you know, artillery, small arms ammunition,
maybe some additional HIMARS rounds,  
<s>breaching</s> \[bridging\]\* equipment.

And so, again, without previewing or making an announcement tonight, I
don’t think you should be surprised to see a similar approach, at least
in PDA packages, in the very near future, given that, you know, it is
spring and given that we know that the weeks and months ahead we want to
make sure that Ukraine has everything they need to be successful if and
when they decide to go on the offense.

MODERATOR: Thank you. Next up we’ll go to Demetri. You should be able to
unmute yourself.

(Reporter line not connected.)

Let’s go to the line of Morgan. Morgan, you should be able to unmute
yourself.

Q Hey, thanks so much for doing this. I just had a question about the
outbound investment, part of the G7 statement. Should we take that as a
sign that the U.S.’s executive order on outbound is imminent? And can
you say anything more about the timing of an announcement on that front?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: I don’t have anything for you on timing.
I mean — so I can’t — I can’t preview an executive order specifically.

But this was a — you know, this was a significant muscle moment for the
G7 leaders today to agree to explore outbound investments and
opportunities and obligations that we all have to make sure that we’re
closely watching and monitoring investments in the PRC that could allow
them to advance capabilities and emerging technologies to assist them,
you know, from a military perspective.

So, significant that the G7 leaders all agreed that this is something
that needs to be looked at. Obviously, to your question, each country is
going to have to decide for themselves how they’re going to consider the
challenge of outbound investments and what to do about it. We’re no
different. We’re going to have to do that too. And you’ll — I think
you’ll see us work our way through that.

But in terms of an actual executive order of the de- — any details of
that, we’re just not at a position right now to really get into it.

Q Thanks so much.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: Yes, ma’am.

MODERATOR: Demetri?

Q Can you hear me?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: I got you now.

Q Great. Thanks. I’m sorry for the background noise here, \[senior
administration official\]. I’m curious, in the economic statement, the
one separate from the communiqué, it doesn’t actually name China. And
I’m wondering, is that ironically? Because some of the countries were
worried that by naming China in that separate statement, you could
actually trigger economic retaliation from China.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: No, Demetri. A couple of points here. If
you look at the — this economic security standalone, I mean, it’s really
— that’s really a process document. It’s basically a toolbox, and it
talks about the kinds of tools that the G7 leaders want to be able to
make sure they develop for economic security, which is not — you know,
which is bigger than just China.

And then, I would say — what I would recommend you do is take that
standalone document, which is basically the toolbox for a much broader
problem set, and if you marry that up with the G7 communiqué
specifically on China, you will certainly see some overlap.

So it’s not like people were afraid to call out the PRC. Just look at
that communiqué on the PRC. There’s an awful lot of economic security
issues in that thing.

So this wasn’t an issue — it was — it was never — that standalone
document was never designed to just be about the PRC. And that’s why —
that’s why no individual nation was named in that. No individual nation.
It really is about the toolbox — the toolbox, the tools in that toolbox,
and the processes by which the G7 leaders want to better attack economic
security.

But again, I highly recommend that you layer that with the communiqué on
the PRC. Because you can clearly see from that, nobody shying away from
naming economic challenges with the PRC.

MODERATOR: And our last question, we’ll go to Janne.

Q Can you hear me?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: I gotcha, Janne.

Q Hi. Hi, \[senior administration official\]. Thanks for taking my
questions. How strict is (inaudible) would the United States respond to
China’s economic retaliation against its allies? And with the U.S. and
South Korea, Japan talks, is (inaudible) of trilateral consultative
group to respond to China’s economic coercion against its allies?

Second question. Do you expect South Korea to provide lethal weapons to
Ukraine? Thank you very much.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL: Okay. I’ll try to get to them here. We
haven’t seen any indication that the PRC is moving to provide lethal
capabilities to the Russian Armed Forces. Obviously, we’re watching this
as best we can. We still continue to believe it’s not in China’s
interest to do that; certainly isn’t in the interest of the Ukrainian
people, that’s for sure. But we haven’t seen them do that, and we
continue to urge them not to.

So, I’m going to take these in reverse order.

On the trilat discussion tomorrow, as I said in my opening statement, I
think you can expect that the President and President Yoon and Prime
Minister Kishida will talk about an awful lot, and we’ll do a readout of
it.

And, obviously, a big focus for our three countries is improving our
interoperability militarily and improving our readiness and looking for
ways in which we can better prepare ourselves to meet our individual and
our collective national security commitments to each other and to the
region.

But there is certainly a lot to talk about trilaterally on the economic
front. I won’t get ahead of the meeting too much, but — but I certainly
would not be at all surprised if they — if they — if the leaders have a
chance to talk about the economic challenges that they all face from the
PRC when it comes to coercion.

And then, on your first question, I mean, I would highly encourage you
to, again, take a look at the economic security standalone document that
was issued as well as the one on the G7 communiqué. Now, I recognize
you’re asking this in the context of both Japan and the Republic of
Korea, but all the leaders agreed that there’s many ways they need to
start to go after economic coercive activities and behaviors by the PRC.
And, again, the documents spell out some of the ways in which they’re
going to think about doing that.

I mean, it’s a — it’s a complex problem. There’s no one silver bullet to
deal with unfair trade practices, to deal with economic intimidation by
the PRC and state-sponsored company subsidies, which — which, again,
disadvantage other — other (inaudible) by other nations.

I mean, there’s a range of ways in which the Chinese use economic
coercion to their own benefit just — and because of that, there’s also a
range of ways which the G7 leaders want to go after shoring up our
resilience, whether it’s supply chain resilience, whether it’s critical
minerals supply and making sure that that is — that that’s on fou- — on
sound footing and secure.

There’s just a — I’m rambling here, but there’s a range of ways that we
can go after this. And I think — again, I’d recommend you take a look at
those documents today and you can see what some of the thinking is.

MODERATOR: Thank you. That’s all the time we have for today. Thanks,
everyone, for joining.

As a reminder, this call is on background, attributable to a “senior
administration official.” And the embargo was until 5:00 a.m. Japan
Standard Time on May 21st and 4:00 p.m. Eastern on May 20th for those in
the States. Thanks again for joining.

8:28 A.M. EDT
