---
date: '2023-05-20'
published_time: 2023-05-20 00:22:53-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2023/05/20/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-and-national-security-advisor-jake-sullivan-on-the-presidents-trip-to-japan/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre and National Security\
  \ Advisor Jake Sullivan on the President\u2019s Trip to\_Japan"
---
 
Crowne Plaza Hiroshima  
Hiroshima, Japan

9:25 A.M. JST

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Hi, everybody. Good morning. This podium is very high.
(Laughter.)

Okay, it’s great to see you guys on the other side of the world. As you
can see, to my left, we have National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan
here, who’s going to just give a little bit of — a little bit of a —
kind of a update on what we’ve seen the last couple of days here with
the G7 in Japan.

And I’m just going to let him kick it off. Go ahead, Jake.

MR. SULLIVAN: Thank you, Karine. And good to see everybody this morning.
Thank you all for joining us.

On the flight over here from Hir- — to Hiroshima from D.C., I said that
the summit would be a high-water mark for the G7 and that it would
demonstrate real unity among the key democracies of the world on a range
of critical issues.

And I think over the course of today, and particularly with the release
of the joint statement of the leaders, you will see that in spades
across the board, whether we’re talking about our support for Ukraine
and holding Russia accountable, our approach to the PRC, our focus on
economic security, our commitment to the clean energy transition. On a
range of significant issues, you will see close alignment among the key
countries of the G7 and a common approach to tackling the significant
challenges of our day.

On Ukraine, we have now announced some 300 sanctions against
individuals, entities, vessels, and aircraft. We are particularly
focused on circumvention and evasion targets. We are focused on
financial facilitators. And we have also made sure to continue to crack
down on future energy and extractive capabilities, as well as other
steps in the sanctions space to tighten the screws from the point of
view of economic pressure against critical elements of the Russian
defense industrial base and its ability to advance its economic and
energy goals.

We are expanding our sanctions authorities to additional sectors of the
Russian economy that are key to its military industrial complex. We’re
imposing new bans to prevent Russia from benefiting from our services.
And our actions are more tightly coordinated with the ones imposed by
the EU and the UK to ensure that what they are doing, we are doing; what
we are doing, they are doing; and that we have the kind of full
alignment that has been a hallmark of our approach to economic pressure
since the start of this conflict.

Just yesterday, as you all know, President Biden informed his G7
counterparts that the United States will support a joint effort to train
Ukrainian pilots on fourth-generation fighter aircraft, including F-16s.

Over the past few months, we and our allies and partners have really
focused on providing Ukraine with the systems, weapon, and training that
it needs to be able to conduct effective offensive operations this
spring and summer. We have delivered what we promised. We have given
Ukraine what it needs based on close consultations between our military
and theirs. And now we have turned to discussions about improving the
Ukrainian air force as part of our long-term commitment to Ukraine’s
self-defense.

So, as the training unfolds in the coming months, we will work with our
allies to determine when planes will be delivered, who will be
delivering them, and how many.

Now, turning to today, a big focus of today will be on economic
security. The G7 leaders will outline a common set of tools to address
concerns that each of our countries face, including from economic
coercion and from efforts at the intersection of technology and national
security to undermine our collective interests and our collective
security.

These tools — these economic security tools will include steps to build
resilience in our supply chains. They will also include steps to protect
sensitive technology, like export controls and outbound investment
measures.

Relatedly, G7 leaders will also come out today with a statement on our
shared approach, our aligned approach when it comes to the People’s
Republic of China.

At the first G7 of President Biden’s time in office in Cornwall two
years ago, China was, for the first time, discussed in the communiqué.
And then last year, in Elmau, leaders built on that.

This year, what the communiqué will reflect is a statement of key
elements on which all G7 countries are aligned when it comes to dealing
with the PRC. The communiqué will note that each country has its own
independent relationship and approach, but we are united and aligned
around a set of common elements, and it will walk through those
elements. And it will indicate that we do seek to cooperate with China
on matters of mutual interest and also that we will work to address our
significant concerns that we have with China in a range of areas.

We are — as President Biden has said, as I have said, as others have
said, and, you know, to borrow a phrase from the European Union itself —
looking to de-risk, not decouple, from China.

The other major element that the leaders will talk about today is how to
ensure we’re fully aligned around the need to deliver bold action to
accelerate the clean energy transition. We know that public and private
investment are key to building resilient supply chains for critical
minerals and other key materials that are essential for reducing
dependence on any one country, and ensuring full supply as necessary to
contribute to the deployment of clean energy and to contribute to
long-lasting economic growth.

So I think you will see a clean energy statement coming out of the G7
that really, in a way, brings President Biden’s economic agenda to the
global stage. His emphasis on climate action that creates good-paying
jobs will serve as a blueprint for G7 action. And I think we can expect
all G7 countries will deepen their commit- — commitments on a way
forward there.

And the President had the opportunity also to discuss how we align the
elements of the Inflation Reduction Act with the specific steps that
other G7 members are taking to ensure that our approaches on these
issues are mutually reinforcing and complementary.

The last thing that I just want to put on the table, which will play out
today in the G7 context, is that since the formal launch of the
Partnership on Global Infrastructure and Investment last year, we have
seen a range of projects announced and the building out of a pipeline
for significantly more projects in Africa and the Americas and Southeast
Asia and elsewhere that go to physical clean energy digital
infrastructure in emerging economies.

And so, later today, the G7 and key partner countries will come together
for an event with PGII where further projects will be announced and also
where we will bring significant private sector leaders to the table to
ensure that public investment is also mobilizing private investment for
this purpose.

And then, finally, outside of the G7, here in Hiroshima, the President
will join the leaders of Australia, Japan, and India for the third
in-person Quad Summit since President Biden took office. Of course, the
first time leaders met at leaders’ level in the Quad format was in 2021
when President Biden convened them in Washington. And this will be the
third such summit.

The President, of course, had to postpone his trip to Australia, but all
of the leaders were determined to get together in person here, and you
will see significant outcomes coming from that in terms of secure
digital technology, submarine cables, infrastructure capacity building,
and other important issues.

So, we’ve got a packed agenda. We’re only halfway home. There’s still a
lot to accomplish. And I look forward to taking your questions.

Yeah.

Q Thanks a lot, Jake. Thank you for doing this. I wanted to ask you a
question about the decision to provide training for pilots to operate
F-16s. President Biden, in February, did an interview with David Muir of
ABC News. And in that particular interview, he said he doesn’t need
F-16s now. And then, when he was pressed, he said, “There’s no basis
upon which there is the rationale, according to our military, now to
provide F-16s.”

Now, I realize you’re not providing F-16s, but you are providing
training for those F-16s. What’s changed in any way?

MR. SULLIVAN: Well, as President Biden said, whether in that interview
or right around the same time, was we weren’t moving forward then, but
he also indicated that we were not taking it off the table.

Nothing has changed. In fact, our approach to the provision of weapons,
material, training to the Ukrainians has followed the exigencies of the
conflict.

So, in the first phase, when Russian forces were bearing down on Kyiv,
the key capability they needed were Stingers and Javelins. We provided
them. In the second phase, when it was more of a ground fight in the
Donbas, th- — the need was artillery and M777 155 ammunition.

As the fight has evolved, the capabilities that we have provided Ukraine
have evolved. And what the President was really getting at back in
February is that we were in the midst of a massive effort to ensure that
Ukraine would have what it needed to be able to launch this
counteroffensive this summer. And that was everything from tanks to
Bradley Fighting Vehicles to further HIMARS and artillery ammunition,
other capabilities.

F-16s are not part of that mix. And the President was indicating that
for the purposes of this counteroffensive, the F-16 capabilities,
compared with everything else I said, was not at the top of the list.

But now that we have delivered everything we said we were going to
deliver so we put the Ukrainians in a position to make progress on the
battlefield through the counteroffensive, we’ve reached a moment where
it is time to look down the road and to say, “What is Ukraine going to
need as part of a future force to be able to deter and defend against
Russian aggression as we go forward?”

F-16 fourth-generation fighter aircraft are part of that mix. The
obvious first step there is to do the training and then to work with
allies and partners and the Ukrainians to determine how to do the actual
provision of planes as we move forward.

So this is part of a — an approach to providing the necessary equipment
to Ukraine based on what we see from a military perspective, from the
advice of the military commanders, is required at a given point in time
and a given moment in the conflict. And that’s why we’ve arrived at the
place we are today.

Q Just a quick follow-up. Training takes time. As relates to training on
an F-16, would it have made sense — and maybe this is Monday-morning
quarterbacking. But would it have made se- — made more sense to come to
this conclusion about providing training on F-16s months earlier?

MR. SULLIVAN: Our view is that where the F-16 fits into the fight is not
right now. So if we had it right now, this is not the main focus of what
they need on the battlefield for this counteroffensive. So we feel like
we will be in a position to give them what they need for that future
force when they need it. And so, the timing, from our perspective, lines
up to begin the training at this moment.

Yeah.

Q Jake, the President’s concern from the beginning had been that F-16s
could be used to help escalate this war, to make it a wider conflict.
What assurances, if any, has Ukraine given the United States that they
would not use these F-16s or fighter jets in offensive fashion that
would target Russian soil?

MR. SULLIVAN: So, all of the capabilities that the United States has
proven to Ukraine come with the basic proposition that the United States
is not enabling or supporting attacks on Russian territory. That will go
for the support for the provision of F-16s by any party as well.

And the Ukrainians have consistently indicated that they are prepared to
follow through on that. And, in fact, we have seen them follow through
on that with the provision of Western equipment when we have given it to
them.

Q Let me follow up on timing. We heard from the Assistant Secretary of
Defense a matter of months ago that training could take as many as 18
months. Could be half that time, some other officials have indicated. In
either case, that would take us to the two-year mark in this war. Isn’t
that a long time to wait, to look down the road before they even have
the capability to use these fighter jets?

MR. SULLIVAN: First, I’m not going to put a timetable on how long the
training will take. That will get worked through military experts. And
as we have seen with other training timelines, they can be set out in
the abstract and then they actually bear out in practice, you know,
whether it’s on the Patriot or HIMARS or — or other systems. So, I’m not
going to circle a date on the calendar.

I would point out something that I think gets lost in the whole debate
about fighter jets, which is that the Western coalition has, in fact,
been supporting the provision of spare parts and other necessary
components for Ukraine’s existing air force, which they are using in
this fight. And, of course, we’ve provided HARM missiles and other
things to enable those aircraft to be able to deliver a capability.

Some Western allies have, in fact, provided Soviet-era aircraft, MiG- —
MiGs. And so, the question for us is: As that stock of MiGs, you know,
begins to go down, as we look to a long-term transition to a Western
fourth-generation fighter aircraft, how do we make sure to make it in a
way where Ukraine will sustain an air capability throughout?

We feel confident that they will be able to do that, that they continue
to have that air capability. As it degrades, of course, this new
capability will come online.

Yeah.

Q Jake, just clarifying that the — the statement on outbound investment
screening — that the entire G7 is going to endorse that concept. And
what does that look like in practice, since I don’t think these
countries actually have — including the U.S. — have a legal framework to
actually do that?

MR. SULLIVAN: So, there will be a reference to outbound investment
screening in the joint statement that comes out from leaders. I will not
get ahead of that statement. You’ll see it when — when the statement
lands.

It will not get into legal details or particular applications. It will
speak to the broad tool. And then each country will have to determine
for itself how it approaches that issue.

For our part in the United States, of course, it’s no secret that we
have been working on developing the legal authorities for a targeted set
of outbound investment controls. And at the appropriate moment, we will,
of course, lay that out.

That moment, we felt, should come after we had the opportunity to do
full consultations with G7 partners. So this is an important milestone
as far as that goes.

Q Any timing — any timing on that, Jake?

MR. SULLIVAN: I can’t — I can’t share anything today.

Yeah.

Q What can you tell us about how President Zelenskyy is getting to
Japan? And to what extent was the U.S. involved in keeping him safe on
the way? And is President Biden going to meet him one on one while he’s
here?

MR. SULLIVAN: I think it’s a safe bet that President Biden will meet
him, but I don’t have a formal announcement of that. But the President
looks forward to the opportunity to be able to sit down face to face
with President Zelenskyy.

And then, in terms of how he’s getting here, I’ll leave that to the
Ukrainians to share. I will say the United States was not the party —
the country that flew him here.

Yeah.

Q Thanks, Jake. Is the President going to have the opportunity to engage
with President Lula? And for — if there is that opportunity, both for
him and for any of the engagement with President Modi, to what extent is
he looking to pressure them or urge them to toughen their approach on
both Russia and China?

MR. SULLIVAN: I think “pressure” is just the wrong word. I mean, that’s
not how President Biden operates with these key leaders with whom he has
deep relationships, like President Lula and President Modi.

But he will look for the opportunity to speak with both of them about
the constructive role that each country can play in supporting the most
basic and fundamental element of any outcome, which is sovereignty and
territorial integrity, which is sacrosanct in the U.N. Charter.

And, of course, Brazil has supported several of the key U.N. General
Assembly resolutions in this conflict. The President will thank
President Lula for that. And the reason Brazil has supported them is
because the underlying element of those resolutions has been this
principle.

So that’s really where the President wants to drive things in the
conversation with the — the key emerging economies who will be here. He
will also want to talk about a lot of things beyond Ukraine, including
PGII, how we mobilize investment in those countries, how we evolved the
multilateral development banks, how we deal with the debt burdens these
countries are facing.

So, Ukraine will be a topic, but one of several key topics that he will
have with these countries.

Yeah.

Q Thanks, Jake. Has the President sought to or been asked to give any
reassurances related to debt-limit negotiations that he’s continued to
be engaged in? And, I guess, in your conversations, has anybody brought
it up to you with any level of concern or discomfort?

MR. SULLIVAN: It is definitely a subject of interest here at the G7. You
know, countries want to have a sense of how these negotiations are going
to play out. And the President has expressed confidence that he believes
that we can drive to an outcome where we do avoid default. And part of
the reason that he’s returning home tomorrow rather than continuing with
the rest of the trip is so that he can help lead the effort to bring it
home.

This is not generating alarm or a kind of vibration in the room. I would
just say that countries are keenly interested in what is a, you know,
significant story. And the President has been able to tell them, you
know, that he believes that we can get to a good result here.

Yeah.

Q Thanks, Jake. Just back to the F-16s. The provision of that down the
line seems to follow the pattern — when it came to Abrams a few months
ago, the MLRS systems last year — where the Ukrainians were calling for
those weapons systems from the very outset of the conflict, and the U.S.
said no and then ultimately relented.

You described earlier this private military-to-military consultations
that drove the decision-making here. But President Zelenskyy, clearly in
the case of F-16s, has been calling for them for more than a year.

So is the message in private from the Ukrainian military about what it
needs on the battlefield different? Or is the sense that the U.S. knows
more about what the Ukrainians need to fight this war than the
Ukrainians do?

MR. SULLIVAN: So I’ll refer you to the Pentagon on this because I think
they will be better able to go into the specifics of that question.

I would point out that on the list of capabilities, as our Pentagon
officials have testified to the Hill, that Ukraine felt they needed for
this counteroffensive for the spring — what was the thing that was going
to make or break that counteroffensive? — F-16s were not near the top of
the list for that.

Yep.

Q Jake, thanks. You mentioned the concerns that you had previously about
what was an escalatory weapon. And then you made the point that
Ukrainians have not used them to attack Russia. Is there any weapon
right now that the U.S. has, any conventional weapon the U.S. has right
now that you think would be off the list? Is your fundamental thinking
about escalations different than it was at the beginning of the war?

And also, could you go one more beat on the submarine cables discussion?
And also, you didn’t mention the AI discussion.

MR. SULLIVAN: Yeah. So, taking those in reverse order: Actually, on
artificial intelligence, they had a good discussion on that yesterday.
So I guess I was kind of looking forward to today as opposed to reading
out yesterday, which I should have done.

But in the section on the global economy, President Biden briefed
leaders on the meeting — the high-level meeting held at the White House
with the key CEOs of the frontier artificial intelligence companies —
the actions that the U.S. government is taking to work with those
companies on a framework that manages the risks while facilitating the
opportunities of artificial intelligence.

Other G7 leaders spoke to this issue as well. I think this is a topic
that is very much seizing the attention of leaders of all of these key,
advanced democratic market economies.

And there are two elements to it. One, what is each country going to do
within its own laws and regulations and its own work with the private
sector in the respective jurisdictions. And then, second, how do we come
together in an international format to effectively try to align
approaches so that we’re dealing with this incredibly fast-moving
technology with these incredibly far-reaching implications.

So yesterday’s discussion was a good start, a good basis for that. And
leaders have tasked their teams to work together on what the right
format would be for an international discussion around norms and
standards going forward.

On submarine cables, I will let the Quad statement speak later today on
that, and we can follow up with you on it. I’m not going to preempt the
opportunity for the four leaders to come together. And then there will
be an outcome document from it that will touch on that issue, among
others.

Q What’s your concern there, though?

MR. SULLIVAN: What’s the concern?

Q The concern on the submarine cables.

MR. SULLIVAN: Well, I would just say that there is a need — this goes to
infrastructure — there is a need to continue to lay cable to be able to
advance telecommunications and other connectivity issues.

And the Quad, both geographically and in terms of policy, wants to play
a role in ensuring that we are in the game when it comes to the
provision of financing for those cables and that it gets constructed in
a way that’s trusted and secure.

And then, finally, on your first question: When it comes to the question
of escalation, of course, you know, the United States government is a
learning organism. This conflict has been dynamic. It has unfolded over
time. We have not just had a static view of either the battlefield or
the participants on the battlefield, the Russians and the Ukrainians.

So, of course, our view has had to keep up with what we have seen to be
the steps taken by Russia, the reactions to the provision of assistance
over time.

But, fundamentally, the President’s core precept, which is that we are
going to do everything we can to support Ukraine in its defense of its
sovereignty and territorial integrity, and we are also going to proceed
in a way that avoids World War Three — that precept has remained intact.
How that gets applied in practice, we have tried to fit to the
circumstances as we find them along the way.

Yeah.

Q Thanks, Jake. I have two questions. G7 leaders are focusing on nuclear
disarmament to achieve a world without nuclear weapons. What
groundbreaking ideas — could North Korea give up its nuclear weapons?
And do you foresee the time to discuss nuclear disarmament with North
Korea?

MR. SULLIVAN: This discussion came up last night. Of course, it’s a
matter of very significant importance to Prime Minister Kishida, right
here in his hometown of Hiroshima. And the leaders expressed their
desire to move towards that ultimate objective while dealing with the
very real and significant nuclear threats that we face today, including
the one from the DPRK.

The leaders agreed to stand behind the basic proposition that we seek
the complete denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula, and we will
continue working towards that. Can’t put a timeframe on it, of course.
And we will have to continue to align our approaches carefully,
particularly with Japan and the ROK, but also with other countries that
want to reduce the threat posed by North Korea’s nuclear program and by
the possibility of proliferation.

Q On the arms support to Ukraine, at what level does the United States
want its allies to carry out arms support to Ukraine? And do you expect
South Korea to support lethal arms to Ukraine? Are you going to also to
discuss this issue South Korea and Japan, U.S. trilateral meeting this
time?

MR. SULLIVAN: So we have obviously worked across continents and across
countries to source everything from artillery ammunition to air defense
supplies to other capabilities. It has been a significant part of my day
job, of Secretary Austin’s day job, as he leads this Ramstein process.
And we’ve worked with dozens of countries to be able to source weapons
for Ukraine.

The specifics of that for any given country can be sensitive, so I’m not
going to speak to any one country. I will just say this remains a high
priority for the President to try to get as much materiel as is both
available and necessary for Ukraine to be able to carry forward the
fight.

Yeah.

Q Jake, you’ve talked about, on China, the idea of developing tools to
fight economic coercion. What exactly are those tools?

And then separately, prior to the G7, the administration announced that
Secretary Raimondo, Ambassador Tai will be meeting with their
counterparts in China. Where is this i- — is this approach of
rescheduling the Secretary Blinken trip to Beijing? And do you think the
communiqué — how it lays out the case against China — will infringe or
impinge upon either setting up these meetings or even a call with the
President and President Xi?

MR. SULLIVAN: I think that would not make sense because I think you will
find the China language to be totally straightforward. It is not hostile
or gratuitous. It is just direct and candid. And there are key elements
of it, right from the top of that language, that speak to the desire for
stable relations with China and the desire to work together on issues of
mutual interest.

It also spells out our concerns, but those concerns are well known to
China. So there should be nothing about it from the point of view of,
you know, a surprise. It is what we have been saying, and it is now a
reflection of the alignment that has occurred.

And, by the way, this statement didn’t happen by accident or by osmosis.
It happened because we have had intensive consultations with our
partners about the PRC and about how we approach that relationship in an
effective and managed way. And over the last two and a half years, I
think that has resulted in a convergence that we did not see several
years ago on the key issues.

But it’s not a cartoonish or one-dimensional policy. It is a
multi-dimensional complex policy for a complex relationship with a
really important country.

I don’t have further news for you on the sequence of steps. I don’t
think there was ever an announcement of Raimondo and Tai going to meet
their counterparts. The question of economic engagement there has been
raised. We anticipate that that can and should happen.

What the timing is on calls, visits, meetings, we are still working
through that with the Chinese side. And when we have more to report, we
will.

It sounds like, from Karine, I got to go. But I’ll just take one more
question here.

Q Yes, Jake, you said that the communiqué on China would add — would
note that each country has its own approach. This is — I believe this is
the first in-person engagement with President Macron after his visit and
his statement on China. Do you really have a common approach on China,
not — regardless of the statement?

And I have another question on Zelenskyy visit to Jeddah. One year ago,
nobody would have imagined this visit could happen. What message can
carry this visit? And how do you think Russia received it?

MR. SULLIVAN: The visit to where?

Q To Jeddah —

MR. SULLIVAN: Oh, Jeddah. Okay.

Q — Saudi Arabia, yesterday.

So, on China and Zelenskyy.

MR. SULLIVAN: Yeah, so, on the first question, you guys will be able to
read for yourself what the communiqué says and ask does it or does it
not reflect the basic approach of France and every other G7 member. I
think you will find that it does. So I don’t think there’s anything in
it where there’s a difference between word and deed.

And then, as far as President Macron is concerned more broadly, the
President had the opportunity to speak with him by phone following his
visit and to go into some detail on how that visit unfolded. And they
had a very good, constructive conversation about that.

On Zelenskyy and Jeddah, we haven’t had the opportunity, of course, to
hear from the Ukrainians directly on that visit because they’ve been in
transit. But, of course, President Biden will have the chance to hear
from President Zelenskyy how that visit went.

We think it’s a very good and significant thing that he was at the Arab
League and had the opportunity to make the case from the Ukrainian
perspective for the world to support Ukrainian sovereignty and
territorial integrity.

Thanks, everybody.

Q Thanks, Jake.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Okay, thank you so much, Jake.

Just a couple things at the top. I know there’s a lot of interest in the
debt limit, so I just want to say a few things here.

There continues to be real difference — differences between the parties
on these issues. We’ve been clear about what the President’s priorities
are and his belief that we should come together to continue the economic
progress we’ve made and invest in the future while also cutting wasteful
spending and cutting the deficit.

That’s what the budget he released on March 9th — more than two months
ago — that’s what it does. It reduces the deficit by $3 trillion over 10
years by cutting wasteful spending on things like subsidies for Big Oil,
which made $200 billion in profits just last year, while at the same
time building on the progress we’ve made reassuring American jobs,
cutting costs for Americans, and investing in our future.

The President has already shown that while he is not insisting on his
approach, if Republicans in Congress were serious about cutting the
deficit and about finding a bipartisan agreement — reasonable bipartisan
agreement — that can reach the President’s desk. They’d be looking at
cutting that kind of unnecessary wasteful spending.

So, look, there’s no question we have serious differences and this is
going to continue to be a difficult conversation. That’s not lost on us.

But the President’s team is going to continue to work hard towards a
reasonable bipartisan solution that can pass the House and the Senate,
because we need Republican and Democrats on this — on this budget
negotiation, moving that forward in the House and the Senate.

The stakes could not be higher. A default would plunge our economy into
recession. Economists estimate that millions of Americans would — could
lose their jobs, hardworking families could lose their retirement
savings.

So, our team will stay at it. We will stay focused. And we hope that
Speaker McCarthy’s team will negotiate in good faith as well.

One last thing before I take questions: the week ahead for all of you.

As you all know, on Sunday evening, the President will return to the
White House from Hiroshima, Japan.

On Friday, the President and the First Lady will welcome the Louisiana
State University Tigers women’s basketball team and the University of
Connecticut Huskies men’s basketball team to the White House to
celebrate their 2022-2023 NCAA championship seasons in two ceremonies in
the East Room, honoring each team’s victory.

The Vice President and the Second Gentleman will attend the ceremony
honoring LSU Tigers women’s basketball team, and the Second Gentleman
will attend the ceremony honoring the University of Connecticut Huskies
men’s basketball team.

In the evening, the President and the First Lady will travel to Camp
David.

On Sunday, the President and the First Lady will travel from Camp David
to Wilmington, Delaware. In the afternoon, the President and the First
Lady will return to the White House from Wilmington, Delaware.

On Monday, the President will host a breakfast in honor of Memorial Day
in the East Room.

After, the President and First Lady will participate in a wreath-laying
ceremony at the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier at Arlington National
Cemetery. The fri- — the Vice President and the Second Gentleman will
attend as well.

Then the President will deliver the Memorial Day address at the 155th
National Memorial Day Observance at Memorial Amp- — Memorial
Amphitheater at Arlington National Cemetery. The Vice President, the
First Lady, the Second Gentleman will all attend as well.

Later, the President and the First Lady will travel to Wilmington,
Delaware. Of course, we will have more to share on the President’s
travel calendar as we — schedule — as we get closer to those days.

With that — okay, go ahead, Josh. Hello.

Q Hi, Karine. Given the stakes you’ve laid out regarding a default, will
you tell the American people what you think the differences are so that
they can understand the situation? And how confident are you that some
kind of deal can occur before the start of June?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, look, the President is confident that there’s a
path forward. If both sides come in good faith, he believes that we can
get this done, when it comes to the budget, when it comes to laying out
how we see the budget moving for the American people. He’s optimistic.
But again, it has to happen in good faith.

And, look, these are — these are how negotiations work, right? It’s a
little bit of give-and-take. This is the core of democracy. That’s what
we’re seeing at play here. And — as long as everyone understands that
you don’t get everything that you want when you have negotiations.

And so, this is a President that understands this. He has been very
clear how imperative it is to get this done.

And — and so, look, we’re confident, we’re optimistic. We’re going to
give the negotiators — the budget negotiators — some space, some room to
have these conversations. As you know, they met evening in local time,
and it just broke up right before we came to the podium.

And so, we’re just going to make sure that the President’s team
continues to do their hard work and gets to — and gets to a deal.

Q And any transparency on those differences?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, look, I mean, we’ve been very clear. We’ve laid out
what our budget is. I just said at the top — right? — the President has
been very focused on continuing to cut the deficit. That’s — remember,
the first two years — we’ve talked about it — $1.7 trillion. The
President wants to build on that. There’s $3 trillion over 10 years.

And so, we’ve been very clear. And I’ve said at the top and I’ve said
many times: If — if Republicans are very serious about cutting the
deficit, then they would do that. Then they would look at the wasteful
spending that we’re seeing — that — those subsidies that go to Big Oil
companies, that go to Big Pharma. The President laid out how he’s going
to do that. Two hundred billion dollars in profits — that’s not
necessary.

And so, instead of putting forth ideas or a proposal that’s going to
hurt the neediest among us, that’s not how we should move forward.

And so, it’s been clear. We put out our budget in March, almost two
months ago. We’ve seen what the House Republicans passed at the end of
April. And so, it’s clear where each side stands.

Q Karine?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yes. Go ahead.

Q Thanks. Just two on the debt limit. What exactly is it that the White
House has told Republicans that they — that you all might not be able to
sell to Democratic members? Is it spending caps?

And also, is the President going to speak — or does he have plans to
speak to Speaker McCarthy, given the sort of hiccup that happened in the
talks last night?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, look, I’m going to start with your — your last
question first.

Just to give a little bit of color, the President was — was updated by
his team last night. I’m assuming — I’m — he will be updated momentarily
by the team. So — and, you know, I can — we can anticipate that.

So, he’s being kept up to date daily, as we have said, multipi- —
multiple times a day. So the President is all over this and is going to
continue to follow — follow the negotiation and stay in touch with his
team throughout the weekend. So, we can expect that.

As it relates to your first question, the spending caps: Look, not going
to negotiate in public. The conversations are clearly happening earlier
— earlier this morning our time, later in the evening, clearly, their
time.

And so, we are optimistic, the President is optimistic that we’re going
to get to a reasonable budget — budget negotiation, a budget agreement
here — a bipartisan budget agreement, as I stated at the top. This is
something that has to pass the House and the Senate. It’s going to need
both Democrats and Republicans.

Just not going to negotiate from here. But we’ve been very clear where
the President stands on his budget, as you know. As I mentioned, he
released that on March 9th, as you all know.

Go ahead. Go ahead, Jeff.

Q Thanks, Karine. Your tone has shifted a little bit from 24 hours ago,
in terms of optimism versus focusing on serious differences. Can you
give a sense of how that shift occurred and how — and how you expect to
bridge those gaps?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Well, look, we wanted to be very clear with all of you
where we saw the differences were, because you all have been covering
this very closely and hearing from folks back home. But we are still
optimistic. There is a path forward. There is definitely a path forward.

We all know negotiations, as I just stated moments ago, is very
difficult. We know that. But it is imperative to get this done for the
American people. There is a sense of urgency that we have been very
clear about.

But the President continues to be optimistic if both sides come in good
faith.

Q But you’re saying “if both sides come in good faith.” Is that — should
we conclude from that that right now the White House does not believe
Republicans are negotiating in good faith?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, I think what’s important is that they — there was
conversations that just — that just concluded moments ago. I think
that’s important. Right? And I think — we think we need to give them
this — the negotiators, the budget negotiators, some space, some time to
continue that conversation.

But we are optimistic. I don’t want to take that off the table. We are
indeed optimistic. We think and we believe that there is a path forward.

And so, we’re going to give them, the negotiators, some time and some
space to do that. The President is going to continue to stay abreast and
certainly stay very focused on — on the — on this — on the negotiations
as we move forward.

Go ahead.

Q Thanks, Karine. So, the last time that we got this close to a debt
ceiling default, President Obama deputized his Vice President to lead
the negotiations. Why doesn’t President Biden trust Vice President
Harris to lead these negotiations —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Well —

Q — while he’s in Asia?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Well, I disagree with your — the premise of your
question. The President does — does —

Q She’s in Los Angeles.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Well — well, let me —

Q She could be at the Capitol. Why isn’t she?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: The President entrusts the Vice President, as we all
know, as we have stated many times.

She — she was in the meeting that — with the congressional members that
occurred very recently, right before the President left for Japan. She
has been in regular conversations, as well, and has been in — in
conversations with the President. He has taken her consult and listened
to her advice, as he always does on many issues. This is one of many
issues. And so, that has not changed.

And I think you actually said something that is incredibly important:
The President has been there before. Right? He has dealt with these
types of negotiations, these types of conversations before. He knows how
this all works. This is not new to him.

And this is why he is optimistic. And this is why these conversations
are going to continue and he’s going to stay on top of them.

Q And you just said that you’re assuming the President will be updated
momentarily by the team. What was he doing for the last several hours
while they were in these meetings?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Well, the — they were having conversations. Right? They
were on the Hill, the negotiators.

Q Right. And —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: But how — how would he —

Q And it’s the middle of the night here. I’m just curious what he did —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah, but how would he be updated if they’re still
having conversations on the Hill? It just ended moments ago.

Q Couldn’t he call in?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Look — look, Peter —

Q He just conducted —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Look — wait — look, Peter —

Q — the first year of his term, he conducted — because of the COVID
pandemic — by video conference. Is that not possible right now?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Look, Peter, we’re going to give the  
the space to these negotiators — the time and the space — to have these
conversations. That’s what we’re going to do.

The President is going to continue to be updated regularly, daily, as he
has been for the past couple of days. And that’s how we’re moving
forward. That’s how we’re — we’re seeing this process.

The President has sat down twice with congressional leaders very
recently to hear them out, to have a conversation, to talk about his
budget, to talk about the urgency of getting — of getting the debt limit
done, of Congress doing their job.

And so, he continues to — he continue to hold the line in that very — in
that way.

And so, look, we’re going to have the negotiators have their
conversation. They just ended their last convening, if you will, and
they’re going to reconvene. I’m certain of that.

And so, the President is going to get an update from his team, as he did
last night, as he’s done the last couple of days.

I’m just going to keep going. Go ahead.

Q Thanks, Karine. Can you give us any sense if a short-term extension is
still on the table if the parties can’t, like, get to the — to an
agreement before the X-date arrives?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, look — look, I’m not going to go- — negotiate from
here.

Going to be very clear: We see a path forward. We think there’s a path
forward. We’re optimistic about that.

We believe that it is imperative to get this done on behalf of the
American people, and we’re going to let those conversations continue.

Q And just one other one.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah, sure.

Q Is it, sort of, still the position of the White House that the White
House is not negotiating over the debt ceiling?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: We are not. We are very, very clear about that. The
President has been very clear about that.

What we’re having — we’re having a separate conversation about the
budget, as we have been doing, as the — our — our negotiators here have
been doing and the President has directed.

And so, we’ve been very clear: We cannot default. We are not a country
that defaults on our debt. And the President is — and I have been very
clear about that. And so that’s what we want to see.

Q Why is it important to hold on to the semantics? Because, like,
clearly, there are discussions about Democrats giving away things that
they would never, ever want to give away. So, I mean, there is a
negotiation, and it’s being prompted by something. So, if not the debt
limit, then what is this negotiation being prompted by?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: There’s a budget negotiation. This happens every year,
when you talk about appropriations, when you talk about spending. They
are — they — there are conversations happening about the budget. That is
not new; that is regular order. That’s what we’ve been calling for: to
go back to regular order.

And, look, the President has been very clear: Default is not negotiable.
You cannot negotiate on — on — on the American — American — as Americans
paying our bills. That has been very clear.

So, again, we are confident and optimistic that we can reach a
reasonable budget agreement, a bipartisan one that can pass the House
and the Senate.

This is a conversation that usually happens — right? — every year and
trying to negotiate on the budget and how we move forward.

When it comes to default, it is not negotiable. And we should not — we
should be doing — moving that forward without conditions.

Q (Inaudible) and regular order under, sort of, extraordinary
circumstances, perhaps.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Look, we’re having a separate discussion — a separate
discussion on budget and spending priorities. That is something that
should be happening. That is something that is part of regular order.
That is what you’re seeing on the Hill. That is what the President has
directed his team to do, is to come to an agreement on the budget.

Go ahead.

Q Just to follow up on Annie’s line of questioning there —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah, sure.

Q If there’s no deal on the budget, then the debt ceiling doesn’t get
lifted. Correct?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Here’s the thing: That shouldn’t be the case. It should
not be the case. The debt limit should be dealt with, as it has 78 times
since 1960. You hear us say that all the time because it is the fact.
That is how it’s been dealt with 78 times since 1960.

So, that should not be the case. Congress can deal with this. It is
their constitutional duty to move forward in dealing with the debt
limit.

We’re going to continue to talk about the budget. We’re going to
continue to talk about how we get to a place that both sides can agree
in a good-faith way and that it can pass the House and the Senate.

Q I understand you’re saying that should not be the case, but we’re
talking about what is happening right now, which seems very clear to be
an ongoing set of negotiations over a potential economic catastrophe for
not only the U.S. but the rest of the world.

So I’m just wondering what the message is — you know, Jake was just
asked about this — to allies here about what these ongoing negotiations
are and also what the — you know, what the end result here is.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Look, this is a country that does not — does not — does
not pay their debt — we pay our debt. We are not a deadbeat country. The
President has been very clear. And the President is optimistic that we
can get this done.

And so, look, that’s kind of where we’ve been. That’s the message that
we’re sending, certainly, to not just Americans, but to the world: that
we are not a deadbeat country. When it comes to default, it is not
negotiable. And we have to — Congress has to get this done.

Go ahead.

Q Thank you, Karine. Doesn’t White House participation in negotiations,
though, set a dangerous precedent that if Republicans hold out on
raising the debt limit, they can bring the White House to the table and
possibly bring concessions on spending?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Say that last part again?

Q I said if Republicans hold out and refuse to raise the debt ceiling,
they can bring the White House to the table and bring concessions on
spending.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, look, here’s the thing: They cannot be holding the
American economy hostage. They can’t. It is going to trigger a
recession. It’s going to — we potentially could lose millions of jobs.
This is the — these are the facts coming from economists. This should
not be happening. And it’s going to hurt — devastate retirement
accounts.

There are consequences here if the debt limit doesn’t get done. And so
it cannot be held hostage by Republicans — we have been very clear — by
these MAGA Republicans, by the Speaker. We’ve been very clear about
that.

We have continued to lay out what the consequences could be, not just to
members of the Hill but to the American people so that they know this
could — this could be what happens if Congress doesn’t act.

So, look, the President has held the line on this. It is not negotiable.
We should not be negotiating on the debt. This should be done without
conditions.

Now, we’re holding the separate conversation on the budget. That is
something that we have been doing for some time now. The President has
been clear how he sees moving forward with the budget. And so, we’re
going to have those conversations.

But it is — it could — it could lead to a catastrophic economic
circumstances if this doesn’t get done.

Go ahead.

Q I have a question about the logistics of this, because you say that
they’re separate conversations. But what’s going to happen when the
legislation hits Congress and in it is to raise the debt ceiling but it
comes with fiscal spending cuts?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Well, we’re not even there yet. Right now, we’re — the
negotiations are happening on the budget. That’s where we are. We’re —
we believe that we can get to a good place if it happens in good faith.
And so, that’s where — that’s how we’re moving with this process.

It needs to be done in a responsible, bipartisan agreement, in a
bipartisan agreement that has to be put forth to the House and the
Senate so both Democrats and Republicans can review and vote on this
bipartisan agreement. So that’s how we’re moving forward. We think —

Q But do you think he’ll lift the ceiling for fiscal spending cuts?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Look, we’ve been very clear: These are two track — two
separate conversations that are happening. One is saying that, look,
default is not negotiable — we’ve been very, very clear about that — and
having a conversation about the budget, which is something that is
supposed to be happening. That is not unusual.

The budget conversation is regular order. Appropriations conversation is
regular order. Spending conversation is regular order. And that’s what
you’re seeing from negotia- — negotiators on — on the Hill right now.

Go ahead, Ed.

Q Thanks, Karine. So, a new poll is showing that 58 percent of Democrats
support raising a debt ceiling while reducing the federal deficit. The
House Speaker is saying the President still wants to increase spending
next year. Is the President out of touch on this?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: No, the President is not out of touch at all. I just
laid out at the top what the President’s budget looks like. It looks
like decreasing the deficit by another trillion dollars over a decade.
And this is adding to what the President has done the first two years —
decreasing the deficit by $1.7 trillion.

The President has been very clear that he wants to get rid of that
wasteful spending. That’s why he’s making sure that the wealthy pay
their fair share, right? When you think about these subsidies that go to
the oil — the oil companies, subsidies that go to Big Pharma. If we’re
really serious about cutting the deficit, then we would look at these
wasteful spendings.

That’s what I have said. That’s what the President has been very clear.
It lays it out right — right — very clearly in his budget on March 9th.

Q So — and the fact that there’s an interest from other world leaders in
our debt ceiling talks, has the lack of a deal cost the President’s
stature here to take a hit?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Not at all.

Go ahead.

Q Hi. Just following up on that point about the reaction of the foreign
leaders. Jake was saying countries want to have a sense, they’re keenly
interested. Is that a slightly mild way of putting it? I mean,
presumably they’re more than just keenly interested. They must be dying
to know what’s happening, right?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Well, you heard from the National Security Advisor,
who’s been in the — in these meetings over the past 24, 36 hours. And
he’s laid out what he’s been hearing and where these leaders are. I’m
just not going to add to that.

And so, look, he said there are in- — there’s interest, but it’s not a —
you know, it’s not a — a, you know, hair-on-fire type of situation. But
there is certainly interest.

Look, these are the largest economies — right? — in the world that the
President is meeting with. We’ve talked about how strengthening the
global economy is incredibly important. And so — but I’m not going to go
beyond what Jake has stated here.

Q Could you just briefly talk about how — the difficulties of the
President choosing which part of the trip to cancel — how to weigh, you
know, the one terrible situation with being out of the country if things
were falling apart or the other terrible situation of saying to the
world, “Sorry, I can’t come and talk to you because I’m dealing with
something at home”? How have you reached the balance (inaudible)?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Well, as you know, he’s going to meet — he’s going to
have that Quad meeting today, where he’s going to be meeting with the —
with the leaders that he was going to have a sit-down — kind of sit-down
conversation with — in Australia. So, I think that’ll be very important.

You all will have — will see that at the top, will be a pool spray that
we’ve all provided. So, that — so that conversation is going to
continue, but here instead of — clearly, instead of Australia.

That’s how important the President believed it would be. I put out a
statement on this just last night — why the President wanted to do this,
because he believed having that conversation — the Indo-Pacific is
clearly incredibly important. And he wanted to meet the — with the
leaders, and it’s going to happen here.

So, I would, you know, just make sure that we highlight — wanted to
highlight that.

Look, we’ve said this many times before: The President could be the
President anywhere. Of course, he understands that that X-date that the
Treasury Department put out, which is right around the corner, right? He
wanted to get — to get back in time to deal with the situation and to be
— and to be — to be back in the States and to make sure that these
things get done.

All right, I think we’re going to have to wrap it up soon.

Go ahead.

Q Thanks. Thanks, Karine. Can you explain the White House position about
what happened in the past 24 hours? My understanding, just less than
half a day ago, was that the President was optimistic that there was
going to be movement towards a deal; half a world away, the Speaker of
the House also talking about a path to getting an agreement. Then
something changed. So what’s your perspective about what changed between
those comments and today when you’re before us?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So I’m not going to negotiate from here. But clearly,
there — there are differences between the parties on budget issues. And
these types of negotiations are never easy. They’re — they’re just not.
When it comes to negotiations, they’re just not easy.

And so, look, the President’s team continues to be hard at work to reach
a reasonable bipartisan budget agreement — that’s what you’re going to
see from the President’s team — and some — a budget agreement that can
pass the House and the Senate. That’s what you’re going to see from the
President’s team.

And he is optimistic — optimistic that if everyone keeps working in good
faith, that we can get to — we can get this done.

So, the optimism continues to be there. Clearly, negotiations are never
— never easy; they’re very difficult. That’s what makes our democracy —
the core of our democracy is having these types of give and take. And
everyone has to understand that you don’t get everything that you want.
And that’s how this works.

Q You’ve spoken many times about the disastrous consequences if there is
a default on U.S. debt obligations. Is a plan B, so you don’t get to
that point, having a short-term extension and making certain that we
don’t get — we, as a country, don’t get to that point?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: It’s a good question, and I was just asked that
question moments ago.

Look, the focus right now is to stay steady, to continue to let Congress
know that they have to do their constitutional duty, they have to get
this done. I just don’t have anything to share on any — any decisions
right now.

But, look, this is — this is not negotiable. This has been done 78 times
since 1960. The President has said we are not a deadbeat nation. This is
something that we have to get done on the — on behalf of the American
family.

And so, we’re going to continue to call on Congress to act.

All right, guys. I’m going to take one last one.

Go ahead.

Q Thank you. It’s been seven years since the G7 was last held in Asia,
and concern about China has risen dramatically over that time. As
important as Zelenskyy’s visit is here, is there any concern from the
U.S. that it would dilute the focus on China that the G7 was going to
have?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: No, not at all. This is a — as I’ve stated many times
before, this is a President that can manage different — different things
at the same time. Not going to get into, you know, President Zelenskyy’s
travel. I think, you know, Jake was very clear on that.

And, you know, the President always looks forward to having a
conversation with President Zelenskyy. I think it’s important that he
continues to — to — to be here at these types of summits and share — and
share an update of what’s going on and what’s happening. And as he has
seen, as you all have seen, from th- — from the G7 world leaders, and
Europe more broadly, and other countries across the world, that we have
come together to make sure that Ukrainians are able to fight for their
freedom and continue to fight for their inte- — integral — integral
terr- — territory integrity.

And so, it is incredibly important that this continues. We’re going to
stay behind the Ukrainian people as they continue to fight Russia’s
aggression.

And so, that’s important. The conversation about China continues to be
important. And so, that’s something that the President can do: can
handle multiple issues at once.

Thank you, everybody.

10:21 A.M. JST
