---
date: '2023-05-30'
published_time: 2023-05-30 18:50:16-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2023/05/30/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-and-office-of-management-and-budget-director-shalanda-young/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre and Office of Management\
  \ and Budget Director Shalanda\_Young"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

3:03 P.M. EDT

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Hi, everybody. Happy Tuesday. Hope everyone had a
restful Memorial Day — an observant one, as well.

Let’s get started.

For months, the President made clear that Congress must meet its basic
constitutional responsibility to prevent a first-ever default, just as
it has been done 78 times before since 1960.

The President made clear that default was not an option and laid out the
economic stakes of a default: a recession, millions of jobs lost,
devastated retirement accounts, higher borrowing costs.

And the President said from the beginning that he would negotiate with
Republicans on a budget just like it has been done every year.

He directed his team to work in good faith toward a reasonable,
bipartisan agreement. This agreement will do the following:

Protect Democrats’ historic legislative accomplishments, including the
Inflation Reduction Act, PACT Act, CHIPS Act, and the Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law  
Protect the economic gains we’ve made — 12.7 million jobs and the lowest
unemployment rate in 54 years.  
Ensure we have the same level of investments in the middle class as we
did in fiscal year 2023.  
Protect healthcare and not push people into poverty.  
Block devastating cuts to law enforcement, public safety, and education
as well.

Negotiations require give-and-take. No one gets everything that they
want. That’s how divided government works. But the President
successfully protected core Democratic priorities and the historic —
historic economic progress that we have made over the last two years.

Now, the House and Senate, it’s up to them. They must pass this bill so
that the President can sign it into law and so that we can continue to
build on those very historic economic progress that I just list out
we’ve made under this President’s leadership, and so — over the past two
years, as I have stated as well, as you’ve heard us lay out as well
before.

Now, without further ado, I have the OMB Director — the Director of
Office of Management and Budget, Shalanda Young. Director — Director
Young is here, and she’s happy to take your questions. And thank you for
all the work that you’ve done these past two weeks — or several weeks.

MS. YOUNG: Thank you. I will see my child again. (Laughter.)

And I do have a small confession to make: I’m also out of clean clothes
— (laughter) — after these last couple weeks. So I think I ran into
Annie Linskey of the Wall Street Journal and Lauren Egan with Politico
as they saw me trekking back to get some clothes to wear with you here
today because I don’t have time to do laundry or take anything to the
dry cleaner. (Laughter.) So, that’s about how my last two weeks have
gone.

But as you know, the President and the Speaker — Speaker McCarthy —
reached a reasonable, bipartisan agreement over the weekend. As someone
who had the pleasure of negotiating this as a part of a great team, I
can assure you that this was no easy task to get here, but what was on
the line for the American people was real.

I know I breathed a little easier — I called my parents, told them to
breathe a little easier — that a deal had been reached. And that’s what
this was all about.

It’s an agreement that not only prevents the first-ever default in this
country, but it will protect our hard-earned and historic economic
recovery. It will protect our legislative achievements, including the
legislation that is creating good jobs in this country. And it’s
protecting critical programs that millions of Americans count on that
you’ve heard me repeatedly talk about.

I want to be clear: This agreement represents a compromise, which means
no one gets everything that they want, and hard choices had to be made.
Negotiations require give-and-take. That’s the responsibility of
governing.

For months, the President made clear — and you may have heard me say
this once or twice — that Congress must take action to prevent default.
And from the beginning, he said he would negotiate with Republican
leadership on a budget framework, and that will allow the appropriations
process to proceed under regular order, just like we do every year.

The bipartisan budget agreement that we’ve reached protects key
legislative accomplishments from the past two years, including the
Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, the CHIPS and Science Act, the PACT Act,
and the Inflation Reduction Act’s clean energy, corporate minimum tax,
and prescription drug provisions.

It protects programs millions of hardworking families count on. It
protects Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid, the Affordable Care Act,
safeguarding health insurance for millions of Americans.

It fully funds veterans’ medical care, including mandatory funding for
the PACT Act’s Toxic Exposure Fund at the levels the President proposed
in his fiscal year ‘24 budget.

And it protects critical public health funding from being clawed back to
prepare for future pandemics and possible COVID-19 surges.

This agreement is now with the United States House and then on to the
Senate. And we strongly urge both chambers to pass the bill and send it
to the President’s desk.

And, with that, I’m all yours.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Phil, who just came back from Beyoncé, in Paris.
(Laughter.)

MS. YOUNG: You did not.

Q It was great. It was a great concert. It was my wife’s 40th birthday
present. That’s not bad.

MS. YOUNG: I have feelings right now. (Laughter.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: (Laughs.) I feel you.

Q Can we talk about it after, in a very lengthy interview? We can do
that at the very end of it.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Phil has feelings, too. (Laughter.)

Q This is going to be a hell of a segue. (Laughter.)

The appropriations adjustments —

MS. YOUNG: Yep.

Q — they’re a pretty critical part of the agreement, I think. We know
about COVID funds; obviously, IRS as well. Can you detail, kind of, the
full scale of the adjustments —

MS. YOUNG: Yeah.

Q — that you guys agree to, shook hands on?

MS. YOUNG: First, I think it’s important to know the appropriations
process — hello, former staff director — uses adjustments all the time.
They do rescissions. They use emergency money. That is how the
appropriations process works.

Because we were dealing with the toplines, we thought it important to
memorialize some of those adjustment agreements. It does not stop the
appropriations committee from doing other things they feel is necessary
to make sure the appropriations process works. But to ensure that we got
to a similar level, close to the same level as this year, we certainly
wanted to have an agreement with the Speaker’s team about what that was.
Because, remember, part of this deal is to make sure we have an
appropriations process that works. This unlocks that, just like budget
resolutions would have.

So now we’re setting topline here. And when the appropriation committee
works, you will see them use $22 billion of the COVID relief
rescissions, which were taken in this bill. The appropriators will use
some of that money to spread around how they see fit.

We didn’t get into the individual line items in this bill. They will
also, as you’ve heard, use IRS rescissions from the IRA on the mandatory
side. Again, we don’t dictate how, but they will rescind $10 billion
both years, and they will then use that to be reinvested into
non-defense discretionary.

They will also use other recissions that their appropriators will decide
the mix of. But we agreed on the levels — that they could be higher, $10
billion higher than last year — and the appropriators will use that.

And building on the emergencies used in December, the appropriators will
use about $23 billion in emergency for ‘24 and ‘25.

Q And then, can I just ask real quick: Do you have an understanding of
how many votes Republicans will provide in the House to get this over
the finish line?

MS. YOUNG: No, remember, I moved. I moved over here. We’re going to let
the Speaker work with his conference. This is what I miss about the
House, though. This is a fun day over there. Lots of meetings. I’m sure
it’s very interesting and has a lot of energy.

But we’re going to leave that to them to work out the votes and how they
get there. We know — we talked to them in good faith; they talked to us
in good faith. But now it’s their — their chance to talk to their
members.

We, from here, are making sure members know what’s in this bill.
Education, education, education.

But, look, I know a lot of members of Congress. What you don’t do is
call and tell them what to do. You educate. You say, “Let me know what
you need to know — what — what’s in this bill, how it’s written, how
it’s going to be implemented. And we’re here to answer you.”

Q Thanks. I have two questions. First, on SNAP, Karine just said that
one of the President’s priorities was not to push people into poverty.
But as this bill is written with the adjustments in the work
requirements in SNAP, Republicans estimate 700,000 Americans are going
to lose those benefits.

So, can you square that circle? How —

MS. YOUNG: Yeah. The President said to me, said to the rest of the team
over and over, he would not increase poverty in this country.

So, while, yes, there will be a phase-in to add age up to 54, remember,
we also got new exemptions in this bill that both parties agree to do.
We will have exemptions for — from 18 to the new population of 54. So
not just a new population, but these new three exemptions will go from
the even existing population. So, some people who have these
requirements now will no longer if they’re homeless, if they’re
veterans, if they’re foster youth aged out of the system up to 24.

So, the analysis is being finalized, but we believe those who are off of
those requirements, because of those exemptions, will be about the same
number as those who are phased in on age.

And you have to remember this: This entire SNAP change is sunset in 2030
to give Congress a chance to see how the new exemptions work and how the
new ages work. And they can opine on a future farm bill if these changes
have made a difference in the SNAP program.

Q But do you know how many individuals would go off the program right —
off government assistance right now who are not eligible for those?

MS. YOUNG: So, we think it’s about the same number. I don’t want to give
you a number until that analysis by USDA is done. But the range is about
what you said. But it’s also the same range of people who will take
advantage and who qualify for the new exemptions.

So those numbers are going to be very close to each other, meaning a
wash in those affected who go on and who are phased on over years, and
those who come off of the requirements.

Q And sorry, different topic, real quick. Can you explain a little bit
how the Mountain Valley Pipeline made it into this bill? Was it at the
White House’s request? Obviously, it’s been Senator Manchin’s priority
here, but he wasn’t in the negotiations. So how did it make it in the
agreement?

MS. YOUNG: Well, I believe what you’re talking about is part of the
permitting piece. We all thought permitting would be a part of this
package. We all have an interest to make sure these projects move
faster.

I talked about the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law. One of the things
we’re focused on here is what can we do to get that money out faster to
ensure that these projects really happen in an expedient manner. That’s
why we’ve been for permitting. And the project you talk about is part of
the permitting piece that we knew would be in the final legislation.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Nancy.

Q Thank you so much, Shalanda, for doing this. The chair in the
Progressive Caucus says that it’s really unfortunate that you are
expanding the work requirements for this particular age group. She says
it’s terrible policy. I know that you’ve been working the phones
speaking to a number of members of, I assume, the Progressive Caucus
trying to convince them that this is good policy. Is she right about
that, that this is bad policy?

MS. YOUNG: Look, I won’t get into individual member opinions because I
think I told Phil or someone else: My job is to tell members what’s in
the bill. You get into trouble when you try to tell members what their
opinion is. Every member is — should have whatever opinion.

Our job is to say, “This is what’s in the bill. This is how some of the
worst things Republicans wanted were mitigated.”

And, by the way, you heard me answer on SNAP. There’s a very real
possibility, when we see the numbers, that the number who are phased in,
who have new requirements on SNAP, is offset by the number who will now
be covered under the new exemptions.

Q And then I heard what you’re saying about the Mountain Valley Pipeline
and about permitting, but this is one project that takes up about 25
pages of a 99-page bill. Why was it so important to spend so much time
on this one project?

MS. YOUNG: I think we’ve been clear about our position on permitting. We
worked with senators to try to get permitting done last year. We will
continue to get more permitting. This was a small piece. It was a start
of a longer process that both parties know we have to do, especially to
get clean energy projects going. And I don’t think it’s a surprise to
anyone that permitting was a key part of a compromise piece that both
parties know we got a little done here but we’ll need to get more done
later.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Go ahead, Mary.

Q When you think big picture and you reflect on these talks, what
lessons have you learned about how this Speaker and this Congress
negotiate, lessons that may be applicable going forward?

MS. YOUNG: One never looks the same as the other. I’ve done this a few
times. They end different every time. They feel different every time.
Going in and thinking there is a formula is the wrong thing to do.
Different people in the room this time. I’m used to being in a room with
appropriators and a little leadership.

So it’s just always different, and you got to be flexible. The most
important things to know: what they have to have. You have to be clear
about what you have to have. I want to know their value statements, and
they need to know mine, and we have to find a middle ground. They
shouldn’t have to compromise their values, and neither should we. That
is a bipartisan compromise.

I know what’s a reach. They try with me to see maybe if I’m asleep or
not, but at the end of the day, we both have to find a way to protect
each other’s core principles, like not increasing people in po- — on po-
— going into poverty in this country. And that’s how you get to
(inaudible).

And first and foremost — I’ve said this, I think, in this room — I have
always thought the majority of members, Democrats and Republicans, did
not want to take us even to the brink of default. I think this bill
shows that that assessment was correct. And we have to keep our eye on
the prize: that passing this bill, getting it to the President avoids
the catastrophic thing that would hurt millions of Americans. And
there’s a reason world leaders were worried about this: This would’ve
impacted the global economy.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Go ahead.

Q Thank you, Karine. Director Young, you talked a little bit about the
calls that you’ve been making and that other members of the
administration have been making to members of your own party. What is
the mood or the tenor on some of those calls? And where, realistically,
is the whip count among Democrats right now?

MS. YOUNG: Remember, I worked there a long time. So, the mood and tenor
— I tend to get patched in with people’s children so I can say hello to
people I haven’t seen in a long time, so it is catch-up time for me. And
these are — these are friends of mine. And I play it straight with them,
and they play it straight with me. And I have long relationship with a
lot of people, and that means I’m honest with them and they are honest
back with me.

And, again, this is education. I like — I play it straight with folks.
They will make their own determination. And it’s incumbent upon us to
make sure they know every single detail in those 99 pages.

Q Leader Jeffries said that Republicans had pledged 150 votes. Is that
still the case? And can Democrats provide 70?

MS. YOUNG: I’ll let them figure that part out. All I know is, when you
enter into good-faith negotiations, you don’t negotiate to see a bill
posted; you negotiate to make sure it gets to the President’s desk. And
we’ll fulfill our part when it gets to the President’s desk.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Go ahead, Nancy.

Q How concerned, Director Young, is the White House right now about the
growing Republican opposition that threatens the compromise on the table
from a procedural standpoint in the next couple of hours?

MS. YOUNG: Look, this is not — the — the House is not very different
from when I was there. You have to have some faith in the governing
majority, which I do, because I have a lot of respect for members on
both sides of the aisle to do what’s best for the American people.

And that is not some pollyannish thing. I know them. And I’ve always
thought we could get here if we let the extreme go away. Like, a lot of
the things in the Republican bill just were non-starters. I get it. But
we just could not do that, and they know that.

But at the end of the day, more people than not knew that default —
threatening default would have been bad for — for America. The 12
million jobs added, record low unemployment — undoubtedly, that would
have been wiped out almost immediately. And that would have been
unacceptable.

Q And what does this mean for future negotiations in a sharply divided
Congress, as you’ve been talking about, in terms of the level of
confidence you have that we just — that there’s enough goodwill that we
won’t just be back in this same position later this year when it comes
to avoiding a government shutdown or just a repeat of this scenario with
different stakes?

MS. YOUNG: Yeah, look, I think I’ve been honest with you. I — I have
always, during this process, worried about the three months from now.
And I represented that. Whatever these toplines were, they had to allow
an appropriations process to at least try.

We couldn’t do things that were so draconian that we knew we’d be back
here. I love them — those are some of my old offices I got to sit in —
but I also like seeing my child. And we don’t have to do these things
where we make the American people very nervous, even though we know
we’re going to get there.

So, one of the goals here was, like, let’s try not to do this again;
let’s set up a topline regime that allows the appropriators a fighting
chance. Because it’s hard, even in unified government, to get all 12
bills done. And I think we reach the sweet spot in this agreement to
give the appropriators the tools they need to get started, get that
appropriations process unlocked, and have a fighting chance to get bills
done by October 1st.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Go ahead, Steve.

Q Is there a mechanism for increasing defense spending if that is deemed
necessary?

MS. YOUNG: They would have to — to change any of these numbers in the
caps. You ha- — you would have to go amend this bill. So, if you spend —
the idea of caps is: If you spend more than them, they’re sequestered.
To change defense or non-defense, one would have to change — change this
law.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Go ahead, Ken.

Q There’s been some suggestion that the X-date might move around in the
final week; a Republican member said he’d heard it could move to June
8th.

MS. YOUNG: He knows more than I do.

Q Are you getting any indication that that might move?

MS. YOUNG: He knows more than I do, then, because I don’t have that
indication.

Q And in terms of Ukraine funding, do you expect this bipartisan deal to
have any impact on the administration’s ability to get more funding for
Ukraine —

MS. YOUNG: I do not.

Q — in the months, weeks ahead?

MS. YOUNG: I do not.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Go ahead, Phil. In the back.

Q Thank you. The compromise gives you, as the OMB director, complete
waiver authority over administrative PAYGO if you deem it necessary for
program delivery. I’m wondering, if the bill as written becomes law, how
frequently do you anticipate using that waiver authority?

MS. YOUNG: Look, it’s impossible to know the frequency, but I do know we
negotiated all of this in good faith. We will follow the processes laid
out in the law on PAYGO. And if that waiver is deemed necessary to make
sure President Biden’s agenda is cared for, we’re going to use that —
that authority. But we will have a process to follow the law as it’s
written.

Q Thank you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Steve Portnoy.

Q Thanks. Can you explain to student loan borrowers, who might be
confused about what’s been agreed to here, how the Supreme Court
decision may implicate that and explain the President’s continued
commitment to forgiveness now?

MS. YOUNG: Yeah, thank you, because I want to be clear. Because as
someone who owed a lot of money once upon a time in her life, people
need certainty here.

There are the Court cases, which this bill does not deal with, so that
continues to be where it is. Supreme Court will opine on the President’s
action to forgive $10,000 in student debt and $20,000 for those with
Pell Grants.

But in this bill, even though House Republicans’ bill sought to do away
with that, we saved it in this bill. So there’s nothing on that in this
bill.

We also protected the income-driven repayment rule, which if anyone has
had student loans knows it was not — it did not work as intended. And
this rule is intended to really tie payments to true income.

Like, it matters to people whether they pay $50 or $500 a month. The big
balance matters, but when I was a young person starting out in this
town, if you asked me to pay $200, then I probably ate ramen noodles. If
it was $50, maybe I could go out a little.

So that balance each — this is an important rule to make sure people
have a little breathing room every month, and that was protected in this
law.

The one thing is: This bill does end the payment pause. But very close
to the timeframe, we were going to end it, as an administration, when it
comes to repayment.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Go ahead, Tamara.

Q Yeah, you talk about this as a compromise. I’m wondering if you could
talk about what you lost on.

MS. YOUNG: Look, you — when the American people win and we avoid
default, and retirement accounts are not in flux and the global economy
is not crashing, I’m going to call that a win every day.

You know, individual people have issues with different parts of the
bill. You’ve heard some of your colleagues bring up concerns that some
members have.

I have to look at what was our ultimate goal. And we are in divided
government. This is what happens in divided government: They get to have
an opinion, and we get to have an opinion. And all things equal, I think
this compromise agreement is reasonable for both sides.

And that’s what we saw. Protect the American people from the worst
possible outcome: first-ever default. Allow Republicans to have some —
some curbing of spending, which is flatlined for non-defense
discretionary. And we move on and get an appropriations process that
works. And I think that’s a good middle ground.

Q Just —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Go ahead, Francesca.

Q Just one more. Given that this process brought the U.S. to the brink,
and this process isn’t quite over yet, has there been any
reconsideration of doing away with the debt ceiling at some point? Is
there — you know, late at night when you had no laundry or at other
times, where is the administration’s thinking on the usefulness of
having a debt ceiling?

MS. YOUNG: Right now, I’m thinking about how quickly this can get to the
President’s desk and we can avoid default. And not only avoid default
for a little while — until 2025, which is what this bill does. And it
does give us some breathing room not to enter into these chaotic
circumstances which would bring uncertainty to the American people.
That’s where I’m focused.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Go ahead, Francesca.

Q Director Young, progressives would say that you lost on several
provisions: permitting reform, work requirements, spending cuts that
they view as harmful. Congresswoman Jayapal said today that the CPC
wants to immediately sit down with the President and talk about what the
next two years are going to be like.

So does the White House feel, as a result of the way this process played
out, that it has some work to do with repairing relationships with
progressives? And would the White House also like to set up a meeting
like that?

MS. YOUNG: Look, I don’t do the President’s schedule. I’ll let other
people opine on who he will meet with and when.

What I will say is: I’ve worked in many divided government situations. I
think this is where you would expect a bipartisan agreement to land.
It’s just the reality.

There’s not a unified government. They have ideas; we have to listen to
them. We have to talk about it. We have to find a place that is not
harmful for the American people or try to stave off the worst. I think
we did that.

And so we have to look at the big picture. That’s what I’m going to do
over the next two years: What can we do to find common ground, work
together? This President has a history of bipartisanship, including over
the last few years, including on veterans — PACT Act — and Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law.

So there is opportunity to work together here. And we have seen that
over the last two years with this President and Republicans, and there’s
opportunity to keep that going.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Go ahead, Karen.

Q Thanks. You’ve said a couple of times that the agreement represents a
compromise, and you’ve said it’s reasonable for both sides. But does the
President feel like he came out ahead with this deal?

MS. YOUNG: The American people came out ahead. When you go into these
things, what are you doing it for? Sure, there are some days where I
have to slap myself and you’re like, “Ah, let it go. It’s fine.”

The point is to avoid default, not hurt American people in the process
by having draconian changes, like we saw in the Republican bill on
Medicaid, which we did not care for it.

So protect the things that would have hurt hardworking Americans. Come
up with reasonable spending levels — which I think most Americans, when
they hear a “spending freeze,” that’s reasonable. And do our basic —
have Congress do its basic constitutional duty, which is avoid default.

So this isn’t about Republicans or Democrats. If you get into who won,
who didn’t, you lost already. When you’re talking about default, it is
the American people won today, especially when it gets to the
President’s desk, because we have avoided what have — would have been
absolutely catastrophic.

Look, we’ve seen government shutdowns, and I think people understand
what the feel is.

Thankfully, we have not seen default in this country. So when we talk
about catastrophe — since we have not seen it, have not felt it — I
think people think it’s a little hyperbole. It is not. Every economist
tells us that all the gains we’ve seen, we go backwards; that we’re back
to situations like we’ve seen in the pandemic. That was absolutely
unacceptable, and we avoided that by also protecting some key things and
not violating our core values.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Just a few more. Go ahead, Ed.

Q Thank you, Shalanda. So, taking a larger view at this: Should the debt
ceiling deal get signed, will it help bring down inflation over the next
12 months?

MS. YOUNG: So what I will tell you is: Would have — would have been
terrible for inflation and the economy would have been a default. We
have seen a moderation.

I’ll let — the credit agencies have not moved down the credit worthiness
of the United States, but we needed to make sure we got a deal before
that happened. We have done that and hopefully staved that off.

But this is exactly why — because we risk overturning — the gains we’ve
made in inflation — is not low enough, but it is moderating. And my fear
was even if we got closer and certainly defaulted, we would have been in
a situation where we lost jobs and lost the gains we’ve made in tackling
inflation.

Q But with this deal, is this an admission by the President that maybe
the government spent too much money over the past two years?

MS. YOUNG: What I’ll say is: We’re in divided government, and both sides
have thoughts about the trajectory of the country, of spending.

This President takes a backseat to nobody on deficit reduction. $1.7
trillion reduction in the first two years. He presided over that. His
budget put forth a plan to reduce the deficit by $3 trillion more. He
also made the case over and over in this conversation that if you really
want to do big deficit reduction, where’s the revenue? Where are the
high-income earners putting more skin in the game?

But this is one part. We’re not going to give up on our revenue
proposals. So while this will change the trajectory of spending when you
see the CBO — when we all see the CBO report when it comes out — where
we really need to make headway is on our revenue proposals, which has
long-lasting deficit reduction abilities and just structural change to
change the unfairness in the tax system.

Q But, quickly, most of that $1.7 trillion that went off in the first
two years was COVID spending that ran off. And the CBO says the deficit
actually will increase next year. It’s 1.7. It was 1.4 this year, 1.7
next year, and then up to 2-point-something by — in 10 years.

MS. YOUNG: Well, that assumes this President did not preside over
getting COVID under control, that it was an accident that he managed a
vaccine program that was highly successful. Had we not done that, what
additional measures would we have needed to ensure that more Americans
did not die needlessly from the COVID pandemic?

So, I get the argument: You didn’t need COVID spending anymore, so you
shouldn’t take credit for deficit reduction.

Well, he got it under control. He used the tools Congress gave him in
the American Rescue Plan to get this virus under control and stave off
the worst of economic scarring.

The rebound we have seen since COVID is not comparable to anything,
including the economic recession we saw when he was Vice President.

So, this is not by accident. This President managed COVID. He managed
the economic fallout. And that’s why you’ve seen 12.4 million jobs
added.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Go ahead, James.

Q Thank you very much, Karine. Director, I have two questions: one about
this current set of negotiations and then a separate question, if you’d
indulge me, on the President’s broader budget priorities.

It seems to me, in the context of these negotiations, that the White
House has been clinging to a fiction, which is that this deal only was
negotiated on the basis of the federal discretionary spending and that
the President, who promised all along that he would never negotiate on
the debt ceiling, didn’t do so in these negotiations.

That’s false, right? The President and his team, you included, did
negotiate on the actual debt ceiling itself and not just the federal
discretionary spending. Correct?

MS. YOUNG: If you’re asking me what was said in a room, I’ll be very
clear: The debt ceiling was a — what did I say earlier? — I don’t like
to use the word “red line,” but the debt ceiling had to be taken care of
for a long period of time.

I’m not sure what you call a negotiation, but it was certainly a
declarative statement from this side of the table. So —

Q (Inaudible.)

MS. YOUNG: — maybe you call that negotiating; I call that a statement of
fact and a statement we weren’t leaving the room with. So I’m not quite
sure I would call that negotiating.

The debt ceiling had to be lifted, and it had to be lifted for a long
period of time. You see this bill lift the debt ceiling until 2025. You
can call it a negotiation; I call it a declarative statement. And that
was our position, and that’s what’s in the bill.

Q On broader budget priorities, the President likes to say — we’ve heard
Karine say many times — “Show me your budget, and that will show me your
priorities.”

No one is more conversant with this President’s budgeting priorities
than you. Based on the budgets he’s put together so far as President,
would it be accurate to say that President Biden has been governing from
the center? Or would it be more accurate to say, as Republicans would,
that he’s been governing from the far left?

MS. YOUNG: The President does his own politics. I’m his OMB director.

What I will say is that his budgets absolutely show who he values, and
it is working families in this country, it is the middle class in this
country.

This is a President who had put out a tax fairness system in his — all
of his budgets. This isn’t a new thing. This is the third budget this
President has put out, the third time he has said the tax system in this
country is not fair. And he means it.

That’s why you’ve seen billionaire minimum tax proposals. That’s why
you’ve seen him call for the corporate minimum rate to go up to 28.6
percent.

It is not fair to ask working families in this country to bear the
brunt. And, by the way, that’s not real deficit reduction. We have to
have a fair tax system in this country.

This President has put forth three budgets that have been very clear
about his priorities there. And again, we’re not going to give up on
those. We’re going to keep pushing on those.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Okay, last question. In the back, the (inaudible).

Q Karine, thank you. (Inaudible) we’ve heard a lot from Republican
negotiators about the tone of this process. I was curious what your
takeaway was on the tone of the conversations and where you felt like
the toughest sticking points were. And when you walk away from this, is
there anything you haven’t gotten done that’s going to be the next
highest priority for you?

MS. YOUNG: Look, it was professional. You had people who’ve done this a
long time in the room, certainly with the great team I had to work with.
This is a full administration push to make sure this happened. We knew
the risk of default if we did not find an agreement here. So it was a
very respectful and professional working relationship between us and the
Speaker’s team he had negotiating

You’ve heard, clearly, this was a small permitting piece, but we’ve got
to do more on transmission. When it comes to the — to the permitting
space, it’s very clear about that. This was a starting point, and we are
going to make sure that we can get clean energy expanded by working on
transmission in the future.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: All right, thank you so much, Director Young.
Appreciate you.

MS. YOUNG: All right, thank you. It was starting to get hot. (Laughter.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: It gets hot —

MS. YOUNG: It’s the lights.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: — up under these lights.

MS. YOUNG: All right, thanks so much. Thank you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Thank you. I didn’t think she wanted to leave for a
second. (Laughter.)

All right, I have one more thing at the top, and then I’ll take a few
more — a few questions.

So, as you all saw, we announced this morning that President Biden looks
forward to welcoming Prime Minister Sunak of the United Kingdom to the
White House on Thursday, June 8th, to further deepen the close and
historic partnership between the United States and the United Kingdom.

The two leaders saw each other most recently, as you all know, in
Hiroshima at the G7, and they have met several times this year,
including Belfast in April and San Diego in March as well.

During the visit, the two leaders will review a range of global issues,
including our shared support for Ukraine as it defends itself against
Russia’s brutal war of aggression, as well as further action to bolster
energy security and address the climate crisis.

The President and the Prime Minister will also discuss efforts to
continue strengthening our economic relationship as well — as we
confront shared economic and national security challenges.

They will also review developments in Northern Ireland as part of their
shared commitment to preserving the gains of the Belfast/Good Friday
Agreement.

And to pre-exempt any questions that will come from here about a
two-plus-two press conference during the visit, both leaders are looking
forward to hosting a joint two-plus-two press conference on June 8th. So
you certainly could expect that — well, should expect that from the two
leaders on that day.

Go ahead, Zeke.

Q Thanks, Karine. There’s some news from Georgia today from the — former
First Lady Rosalynn Carter has been diagnosed with dementia. I was
wondering: Does the White House have any reaction? And has the President
spoken with either the Carters recently or members of the Carter family?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Well, thank you for the question. I can say that the
Bidens have stayed in touch with President Carter’s team to ensure that
their family knows that they are — they are certainly in the President
and the First Lady’s thoughts. And I will leave it there.

Q And then, secondly, in regards to the attacks — the (inaudible)
attacks this morning in Moscow, has the U.S. ascertained whether
American-supplied drones were used in that attack, that the Ukrainian
government had knowledge of that attack?

And then, did last week’s discovery of U.S.-supplied material in
Belgorod, in Russia, pro- — does it give the President any concern about
supplying the — continuing to supply the Ukrainian government with
military equipment that can be used in — on Russian soil.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, look, as you know, we saw the — we’ve seen the
reporting. We’ve seen the news and are, certainly, gathering information
about what happened to get a better perspective and some clarity about
what happened.

But I can speak to this more generally. As you know and as a general
matter — we have said this before — we do not support attacks inside of
Russia. We’ve been very clear about that.

We have — you know, we have been focused on providing Ukraine — as
you’ve heard from the President, as you’ve heard from National Security
Advisor and many colleagues from the NSC, my colleagues from the NSC —
with the equipment and training they need to retake their own sovereign
territory. And that’s exactly what we’ve done for this past more than a
year now.

And if you look at where we are today, today was also Russia’s 17th
round of airstrikes on Kyiv just this month alone. Just this month alone
— the month of May — which we’re almost, clearly, done with. Many of
which have devastated civilian areas as Russia continues its brutal
attacks — it’s brutal attacks against the people of Ukraine.

So, Russia started this unprovoked aggression, this unprovoked war
against Ukraine. Russia can end this at any time. You’ve heard us say
this many times from this podium.

They can withdraw their forces from Ukraine and ins- — instead of
launching these brutal airstrikes against Ukraine, in their cities and
on people every day. So, we’ve been very clear about that.

Q (Inaudible.) Does the President believe that Ukraine risks losing the
moral high ground in this conflict if it strikes at — touches civilian
targets in Moscow?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, look, I’m going to be very clear. We’re gathering
information. I’m not going to get into hypotheticals from here. We do
not support the use of U.S.-made equipment being used for attacks inside
of Russia.

We’ve been very clear about that. And we’ll continue to do that. And we
have been clear not just publicly but privately, clearly, with the
Ukrainians.

But not going to get into hypotheticals. We’re going to look into —
gather information to see exactly what happened so we can get some
clarity.

But, as I said, we’ve been very clear.

Go ahead.

Q Have you spoken to Ukraine about this attack yet?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I — I don’t have any calls to preview at this time on
any specific conversations that have been had by this administration to
Ukrainians. All I can tell you is we’ve been gathering information about
exactly what happened.

Q And separately, what happened with Defense Secretary Austin’s plans to
meet with his Chinese counterpart in Singapore?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, look, as you’ve heard us say — again, from here at
this podium — it is — we value in — we see value, certainly, in
military-to-military conversations to responsibility to — to responsibly
manage a complex — a complex relationship and to avoid any
misunderstanding or escalation of competition into conflict.

We’ve been very clear about that. And keeping the lines of communication
open between the United States and China is a — is a responsible thing
to do, is something that we want to, certainly, continue to — to have
that approach.

Anything else, I would certainly refer you to the Department of Defense.

Q Thank you. And just one more. The President said yesterday there will
be a review on engagement with Uganda. How long do you expect that to
take?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, look, I know the President, as you just stated, put
out a statement about — about this — a pretty lengthy statement
yesterday about what we saw from Uganda yesterday.

The enactment of Uganda’s Anti-Homosexually — -Homosexuality Act is a
tragic violation of human rights — of universal human rights, one that
is worth — worthy of the — that one is not worthy, to be clear, of the
Ugandan people and one that jeopardizes the prospects of critical
economic growth for the entire country.

So, look, this certainly da- — endangers are poised — da- — the dangers
of poise of — by this democratic backsliding are a threat to everyone
residing in Uganda, including the U.S. government personnel, the staff
of our implementing partners, tourists, members of the business
community, and others.

And so, as we consider — and we — as the President stated in his — in
his statement yesterday — additional steps, the National Security
Council and other U.S. government agencies are evaluating the
implications of this law and all aspects of U.S. engagement with Uganda,
including our ability to safely deliver services under the U.S.
President’s Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief — PEPFAR, as you — as we call
it here, as you all have reported on — and other forms of assistance and
investment.

Again, we’re going to review that. We’re going to take a look at that.
And just don’t have anything to share on what that — when that review
will be done and exactly what steps we’re going to be taking.

Go ahead.

Q Just following — thanks for blowing me up on that.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I know, but I have a question for you. (Laughter.)
What’s your — what your favorite Beyoncé song?

Q I — there’s too many to list — (laughter) — on camera in this moment.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Smart ques- — smart answer. Smart answer.

Q It was — it was a good concert. That’s what I will say.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Go ahead, Phil.

Q Following up on Steve’s question about the request for a meeting
between Secretary Austin and his Chinese counterpart. Is the
administration aware of anything that the Chinese want to try and open
this line of communication? Where do things stand in terms of if there’s
a pathway forward or if this just the reality from here on out?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, look — look, I don’t have any — that’s something
for, clearly, the PRC to — to — to answer to. What I can say is, we
understand the importance — and we have been very clear about this for
several months — about keeping the lines of communication open between
the United States and China.

And so, we believe, again, it’s the most responsible thing to do. And as
you know, most recently, the National Security Advisor, Jake Sullivan,
had a lengthy conversation with his counterpart about meaningful step
forward as we think about the relationship — the U.S. relationship with
China.

And so — so, that is important. Those lines of communication, certainly,
have been open and continue to — continue — continue to happen. But,
look, military-military conversation is obviously critical, as we man- —
manage, as I mentioned moments ago, this really complex relationship
that we have and — again, to avoid any misunderstandings or, certainly,
avoid what we see as competition into conflict.

So, we’re going to continue to — continue to, certainly, have that
approach. But any specifics that leads to — that has to deal with the
Department of Defense, certainly, I would refer you to my colleagues
there.

Q Thanks, Karine.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Go ahead.

Q Thanks, Karine. So, there are now some 50 amendments and counting that
have been proposed in the House when it comes to the — the budget debt
bill. Is the White House position that this bill needs to pass as is?
Are you open to some amendments depending on what they are?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, look, what I can say is: We have a short — limited
of time here, as we know from the Treasury’s letter on when — when — you
know, when default can happen, which is June 5th, with the budget
agreement.

We’ve been very clear. We think this a bipartisan, reasonable budget
agreement that the two sides certainly have come together and that,
clearly, Speaker McCarthy supports and the President support.

And so, we’re certainly going to leave the mechanics and how this moves
forward to the leadership in Congress. But as we see this budget
agreement today, as we saw the framework that came out of these really
good-faith conversations, we’re certainly going to continue to — to
share our thoughts about how important it is to get this done for the
American people.

I’m not going to get into specifics about the 50-plus amendments and
what it will ultimately look like.

But, look, this has been something that both sides, again, came to the
table in good faith, understanding how important this is to the American
people. And that’s what you saw. And you saw — American people should at
least have some understanding or some comfort that, you know, government
is working for them in the sense of coming forward with a bipartisan,
reasonable agreement.

Q And what does it say that this Mountain Valley Pipeline — which, you
know, goes to southern Virginia — is being opposed in this bill by one
of Virginia’s own senators, who says this shouldn’t happen, at least not
this way.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, look, the — as you know, and I — you guys have been
reporting on this as we talk about the Mountain Valley Pipeline. It was
going to move forward with or without this bill. That is just how — that
is just fact. This is how it was —

Q It was being held up because of a lot of different —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Well —

Q — environmental concerns.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Well, look, it — the bill doesn’t really do much as it
relates to that — to that project, to be quite honest. Instead, it
preserves the largest investment in climate protection that we have seen
in history, under this administration.

It helps get hundreds of clean energy projects online faster, all while
protecting the full scope — the full scope of the environmental reviews.

And so, look, we believe a bipartisan compromise that — that
congressional Democrats can be proud of and — and also will accelerate
on those clean energy promises.

Look, again, when you look at this — this bipartisan, reasonable budget
agreement — and we have talked about negotiation — I’ve said this many
times from here, and certainly Director Young said it when she was here
moments ago — it’s not going to be perfect. Not everyone gets what —
what they want, and that’s what negotiation looks like. This is a
divided government, as you all — as we all know.

And so, look, this is — but this is really important to the American
people. We have to get this done. We have to make sure that we get to
the other side of these conversations.

Go ahead.

Q Thank you. President Biden was asked yesterday about long-range
missiles for Ukraine — ATACMS. And he said, “It’s still in play.” In the
past, the U.S. would say, “No.” So what’s changed from “no” to “it’s
still in play”? And what needs to happen for the U.S. to provide Ukraine
with long-range missiles?

And also, I would like to follow up Zeke’s question. I would like to
clarify: Do you — you don’t support Ukraine — Ukraine’s attacks on
Russian territory at all or attacks with U.S. equipment?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, look, I don’t have anything to — any changes in —
to the policy to announce from here, as it relates to ATAC- — long-range
mi- — information — long- — I’m sorry, long-range missiles.

Look, as it relates to the drone attacks that we saw in Moscow, we’ve
been very clear: We’re going to see — we’re going to gather information
and see exactly what happens. So just want to be very clear about that.

But look, we do not support attacks inside of Russia. That’s it.

Q Ever?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Period. I mean, that’s — I cannot be any more clear
than what I just stated: We do not support attacks inside of Russia,
period. We’ve been very clear about that. That’s been a general matter
that you have heard from us over and over again this past several
months. And I cannot be more clearer than that.

Q So why did the President say “It’s still in play” when asked about
long-range missiles?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: What I can tell you right now is we — I don’t have any
changes to our policy to — to share with you at this time.

Go ahead.

Q Thanks. I have a NATO question and then an Afghanistan-Iran question.
Starting with NATO: When the Danish Prime Minister visits on Monday, is
the President going to speak to her about maybe being an interlocutor
and working with Turkey on getting Sweden into NATO?

And then, also, can you just update us on the F-16s and Sweden’s
membership? Is that something that — that the White House expects to
have sorted by the time the NATO Summit happens?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, two things I can say. As you know, the President —
we read out the President’s conversation with Erdoğan yesterday. They
had a — clearly, a conversation.

But in that — in that — in that dialogue, the President did express his
strong desire for Turkey to approve Sweden application to join NATO,
which would — which — which we would like to happen as soon as possible
so that — he did bring that up in a — in that conversation.

I’m not going to get ahead of what is going to be on the agenda, what’s
going to come out of the Denmark visit that’s going to happen a week
from this past Monday.

Look, when it comes to, you know, any conditions, as it relates to F-16s
— the sales of F-16s to Turkey and — as with them approving Sweden’s bid
to join NATO — look, that is not — that is not — that is not a
condition. President Biden — long been clear that he supports selling
F-16s — you’ve heard that from this podium — to Turkey, which would help
facilitate NATO interoperability.

So, look, Congress has an important role in providing arm sales. And so,
I would leave the rest to Congress.

But the President has been very clear where he stands in that — on that.

Q On Iran and Afghanistan, there have been some border clashes over the
weekend over, I think, water rights. What’s the White House’s reaction?
And do you have any leverage over either of these parties to get this
violence to stop?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, look, we’ve been clear about how we see the
conflict there.

I don’t have anything else to provide on — on what’s currently occurring
there. And so, I’ll just leave it there for now.

Go ahead, Monica.

Q Karine, can you let us know a bit more about the President’s
engagement on all this, calls that he has made?

He talked about reaching out to Leader McConnell yesterday. Is he also
making calls to other Republicans — besides, of course, his
conversations with Speaker McCarthy — on this? And what should we expect
in terms of his level of outreach today and tomorrow ahead of an
expected possible vote tomorrow night?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, a couple of things. I do have some – some — some
items to share here. Look, the President has been engaging with members
of Congress throughout this process, as you all know, and he’ll continue
to do so.

And so, the President and his team are having conversations with
Democratic members of Congress across the ideological spectrum —
moderate and progressives. That includes more than 100 one-on-one calls
with members of Congress. That’s with — between the President and his
team. In the past 24 hours or so, our senior team made individual calls
to all House Democratic leadership, all committee ranking members, and
all Tri-Caucus and ideological caucus chairs as well.

So, we have hosted numerous separate briefings on the entire bill for
the House and Senate Democrats, as well as six issue-specific briefings
for House Democrats on energy policy, appropriations, TANF, and SNAP.
That doesn’t include the numerous briefings for their staff.

We’ve also briefed or offered to brief each of the Tri- Caucuses and
ideological caucuses as well. In addition, our policy experts have had
numerous conversations with members of their staffs to answer specific
questions about the bill that members have had.

And so — so, again, we’ve been in constant contact with leadership from
both parties in the House and the Senate to provide information. As
Director Young was stating is that her — their job is to provide
information on the facts and what they know and how we can make sure
that they have the — all of the details that they need.

So, as you know, we don’t provide private conversations from here, but I
just list out all of the — all of the — all of the conversations and
what we’ve done specifically coming out of this administration as it
relates to this budget negotiation.

Q And is there still a concern about the U.S. credit rating being
downgraded, given the Fitch warning last week? How (inaudible) is that
right now? And how is that factoring it?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, look, we believe this is a reasonable bipartisan
compromise that — that, you know, the House congressional members should
be proud of. We believe that it is important to get this done. We
believe that, again, we are a country that pays our — pays our debts and
that — and that, you know, we should not — we should not be defaulting
on those debts.

And so, what the President wants to see: He wants to see the House and
the Senate take this up. He wants to see this pass in clearly both
chambers. He wants to see this on his desk so he can sign it into law.

And — and that’s what we’re going to continue to have those
conversations to make sure that occurs.

Go ahead, Peter. I haven’t seen you since Japan.

Q Nice to see you again.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Oh, yeah. I’m sure. (Laughs.)

Q You can say it’s nice to see me too.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: It’s nice to see you, too, Peter.

Q It’s been more than a month since the re-election announcement. Is
President Biden going to hold a campaign event ever?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, I will say this to you, Peter: As you know, we
follow the rule of law here. We believe in following the rule of law as
it relates — hold on — as it relates —

Q I’m not asking you to weigh in on the impact of an election —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I’m — I’m about —

Q — just his schedule.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I’m — I’m —

Q You’ll have to schedule around rallies.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I’m — I’m about to answer your question here. As it
relates to anything that — that is connected to the campaign, any
rallies, any events, any — any endorsement, anything that is connected
to the 2024 re-election, that is not going to certainly come from here.
That is going to come from his campaign or the DNC — and/or the DNC.

Q So you can’t say if he will be campaigning for re-election.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I’m just not going to comment from here

Q Okay.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: — on 2024 re-election.

Q Another story.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: The Hatch Act does exist.

Q A group of experts now say that AI poses an extinction risk right up
there with nuclear war and a pandemic. Does President Biden agree?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: What I can say — you’re speaking to the letter that was
provided today, made public. And so, look, the President and the Vice
President has been very clear on this: As it relates to AI, it is one of
the most powerful technologies — right? — that we see currently in our
time. But our — but in order to seize the opportunities it presents, we
must miti- — first mitis- — mitigate its risk, and that’s what we’re
focusing on here in this administration.

As you know, the AI — we brought some CEOs here recently — that the
President and the Vice President hosted — to the Whi- — White House to
reiterate their responsibility for these specific companies — have to
ensure that products are safe before they are released to the public.
And so, I will leave it there.

I — as — again, I know there’s a letter that went out today from — from
Elon Musk and CEOs. I will let the public read that letter. But, again,
we have been very clear on that — how companies need to be responsible
in — as it relates to AI.

Q It’s been months, Karine.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Go ahead. Go ahead.

Q Thanks, Karine. Following up on the question about Erdoğan and
President Biden’s call, yesterday the President said that when it refers
to Sweden’s membership in NATO, we’re going to talk about it next week.
Do they have another call scheduled? Do you know what that refers to?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: No, I don’t have a call to read out to you at this
time.

Q Okay. And then, Florida Governor Ron De- —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: But as I — but let me just say, as I just stated, the
President did bring that up in their conversation.

Q Sure. Florida Governor Ron DeSantis said late last week that he would
take an aggressive approach to issuing pardons to January 6th rioters if
elected to higher office. Given the recent sentening \[sic\] —
sentencings of members of the Oath Keepers, including 18 years in prison
for leader Stewart Rhodes, who DOJ called the archite- — architect of
the plan to storm the Capitol, do you have any comment on that proposed
use of clemency?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, look, I’m going to be very — very careful because
he is a candidate in the 2024 pres- — presidential election, so going to
be really mindful to not respond directly to the governor in this case.

But we’ve been very clear. We’ve been very clear. This President has
been very clear as it relates to January 6th: It was one of the darkest
days in our democracy, and we need to get to the bottom of what
happened. As we know, there were law enforcement officers that were
injured, that were harmed. And what we saw was devastating on that day.
It was devastating.

So we need to get to the bottom of this, but I’m not — certainly not
going to respond directly to a 2024 presidential candidate.

AIDE: Karine —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah, okay. One more. Go ahead, Aurelia.

Q Thank you so much. So, Elon Musk is in China today meeting with the
foreign minister, announcing new investments. In November last year, the
President said that Elon Musk’s relationships with foreign countries
are, and I quote him, “worth looking at.” So, is the administration
looking at Elon Musk’s relationship with China? And what conclusions
does it draw?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I just don’t have anything to add or go beyond what the
President said.

Okay? Thanks, everybody. I’ll see you tomorrow. Thank you.

4:02 P.M. EDT
