---
date: '2023-05-04'
published_time: 2023-05-04 18:29:47-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2023/05/04/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-nsc-coordinator-for-strategic-communications-john-kirby-and-omb-director-shalanda-young/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre, NSC Coordinator for\
  \ Strategic Communications John Kirby, and OMB Director Shalanda\_Young"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

1:25 P.M. EDT  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Good afternoon, everyone.  Happy Thursday.  I have a
couple of things, and then we’ll get to our guests.  Got a lot of fun
happening today.  
  
All right, First Lady Jill Biden is traveling today to the United
Kingdom to attend the coronation of His Majesty King Charles III and Her
Majesty Queen Consort Camilla on behalf of the United States.  The U.S.
and the United Kingdom are close allies and strong partners with
enduring ties between our countries and peoples.  The First Lady is
honored to represent the United States for this historic moment.   
  
In addition to attending the coronation and participating in coronation
activities, the First Lady will also meet with Mrs. Murthy, spouse of
Prime Minister Rishi Sunak.  She will also join the Prime Minister and
Mrs. — Mrs. Murthy for their Coronation Big Lunch.  
  
Her full schedule was released by the First Lady’s Office earlier this
morning.  
  
I also want to share that this morning President Biden welcomed Ajay
Banga, his nominee for president of the World Bank, to the White House
to congratulate him on his resounding selection to lead the bank.  They
discussed how they will continue to work together to transform the World
Bank to reduce poverty; address global challenges, including climate
change; and expand prosperity around the globe.  
  
With that, my colleague Admiral John Kirby is here to discuss our
support for Ukraine and National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan’s
upcoming speech at the Washington Institute on the Biden-Harris
administration’s Middle East policy, and take your questions that you
all have.  
  
With that, Admiral —  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Thank you.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — the podium is yours.  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Thank you.  How are you all doing today?   
  
Q    Good.   
  
Q    How are you?  Hello.  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Good.   
  
So, look, I know there’s been a lot of questions, over the last 24 hours
or so, about this alleged drone attack at the Kremlin.  We’re still
trying to gather information about what happened, and we just don’t have
conclusive evidence one way or the other.  I know there’s lots of
questions, but we just don’t have conclusive evidence.   
  
One thing I can tell you for certain is that the United States was not
involved in this incident in any way, contrary to Mr. Peskov’s lies. 
And that’s what they are: just lies.   
  
Over the past few days, we’ve also seen Russia continue to launch dozens
of missiles and armed drones into Ukraine, striking civilian homes and
killing innocent Ukrainians, including shoppers at a supermarket.   
  
Russia is continuing to wage a brutal war against the Ukrainian people. 
And we’re committed to continuing to support Ukraine as they defend
their country from that aggression, including, as you just saw this
week, with yet another package of security assistance — drawdown
authority for the President.  
  
On Sudan: Today, the President issued a new executive order to respond
to the violence that began in Sudan on the 15th of last month.  This new
executive order authorizes targeted sanctions that promote
accountability for individuals that are responsible for threatening the
peace, security, and stability of Sudan; undermining Sudan’s democratic
transition; and using violence against civilians or committing serious
human rights abuses, among other things.   
  
The United States stands with the people of Sudan, and we are acting to
support their commitment — their commitment to  
future peace and security.  
  
(Bumps microphone.)  Oh, sorry about that.   
  
As the President’s statement noted, the people of Sudan suffered 30
years under an authoritarian regime, but they never gave up their
commitment to democracy or their hope for a better future.  Their
dedication brought down a dictator only then to endure a military
takeover in October of ’21 and now more violence among military factions
that are fighting for control.  The people of Sudan deserve better.   
  
And if these two military factions — the leaders of them — really desire
for peace and security — if they really have the Sudanese people at
their heart, then they should stop fighting.  They should put the arms
down, abide by the ceasefires they’ve committed to, and start to get
back to the table so we can see a transition to civilian authority.   
  
Now, I know or suspect that the EO will prompt questions about sanctions
and what might be coming next.  Let me just get ahead of you there and
tell you we don’t preview sanctions.  I don’t have any specific saying
sanctions to speak to today.  
  
This EO will authorize, now, the Department of Treasury and others to
take a look and see if anything like that is appropriate.   
  
And then lastly, as Karine noted, this evening, National Security
Advisor Jake Sullivan will deliver a keynote address at the Washington
Institute’s Annual Conference, where he will outline the
administration’s approach to Middle — to the Middle East region,
including about how diplomacy and deterrence is fostering a more secure,
stable, prosperous region that’s interconnected with the world.  So I
highly recommend you all tune in and take a look at what Jake has to say
tonight.   
  
With that, I’ll take some questions.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right, guys, we have two guests and not a lot of
time.  So I’m going to try and go through this really fast.   
  
Q    Thank you, John.   
  
MR. KIRBY:  Yeah.  
  
Q    So you — you called what Peskov said “a lie” just a moment ago. 
Could you talk a little bit about what the motivation for that could or
would be?  And are —  
  
MR. KIRBY:  The motivation for his lies?   
  
Q    Yeah, well, why — why would he — why would he lie about that?  And
are you concerned that it’s — it’s the first step in an escalation as
far as conflict there?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Have you seen any Peskov press conferences?  (Laughter.)  I
won’t even begin to try to est- — estimate my — what — why that man says
what he says or what was behind that.  
  
Although I will say, you know, from the very beginning, the Russians
have been trying to paint this war as some sort of fight with the West
against Russia, NATO against Russia, the United States against Russia. 
So it perfectly fits in his frame — the framing that President Putin has
tried to label this — this war as, like it was some sort of existential
threat to Mother Russia.  And, of course, it’s not; Russia is the
aggressor here.   
  
They had diplomatic options on the table before they decided to roll
across the border into Ukraine, and they ignored all those options to
try to find some sort of diplomatic solution and some sort of peaceful
way out of this.  They decided war.  They’re continuing to fight that
war.   
  
Q    And how quickly should we expect that investigation to be resolved
on their — on the —  
  
MR. KIRBY:  What investigation?  
  
Q    The alleged drone incident.  
  
MR. KIRBY:  We’re not investigating it.  I want to be clear.  I said
we’re still looking at this.  We don’t have — we haven’t come to any
conclusions one way or the other.  We’re going to try to learn more. 
But let’s not label it a “report” or an “investigation” or anything like
that.  We’re doing the best we can to try to find out what happened.   
  
But — but look — and that’s why I pivoted in my opening statement. 
While I understand the interest in this — and clearly, we’re interested
in it too — let’s not lose the bigger picture here.  It’s not like Mr.
Putin has to invent new reasons to kill innocent Ukrainians.  He keeps
doing it over and over and over again.   
  
Now, whether he’s going to use this as some sort of pretext is up to
him.  But just in the last 24 hours, you know, he’s — he’s bombing
shoppers at a supermarket.  So the violence just continues one way or
the other.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Nadia.  
  
Q    Thank you.  Thank you, Karine.  Hi, John.  I’m here.  
  
Can you walk us through the thought process of why you decided to impose
sanction on Sudan now?  We asked you this question many times before,
but is it a way to try and to — you give up on the generals to end this
conflict and return to the civil rule?  Is it a way to encourage some
action to end the conflict?  
  
And second, why you do not mention General Burhan or General Hemeti by
name?  You just did not name anybody in this sanction.   
  
MR. KIRBY:  Well, we didn’t announce any sanctions today.  As I just
said before I turned it over to questions, we don’t preview sanctions. 
I have no sanctions to speak to one way or another.   
  
What this EO will do is give us, the administration — thanks to the
President’s decision to execute this order, to sign this order — will
give us authorities and flexibility should we want to apply sanctions as
one tool here in order to — to hold folks accountable and to try to get
at a better solution inside Sudan.   
  
Now, look, I — there was no need in reading out the EO to name the
leaders of these military factions, but it’s not like we’re afraid to. 
We’ve said all along we’re talking about General Burhan, who is the
leader of the SAF, and General Hemeti, who is the leader of the Rapid
Support Forces.  But you shouldn’t read into that that I’m previewing
some specific sanctions against them individually or any other entity. 
We don’t preview sanctions.  
  
If and when we’ve got something with respect to sanctions to speak to,
we’ll certainly let you guys know.  
  
Q    But why now you’ve decided on the sanctions?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Again, I — we haven’t decided on sanctions.  We don’t
preview sanctions.  This EO allows for authorities to look at tools,
leverage tools, particularly in the case of sanctions, possibly
sanctions.  But we haven’t issued any sanctions.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Kristen.  
  
Q    John, and Admiral, thank you for being here.  And I understand what
you’re saying; you’re still assessing the situation.  Can you help us
understand what, if any, conversations is the administration having with
Ukraine to help it brace for what appears to be a new round of Russian
attacks at this point?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  It’s almost a continuous round, Kristen.  I mean, I think if
you’re sitting in Kyiv, you wouldn’t be talking about a new round.  It’s
almost constant the barrage that Mr. Putin has — continuing to visit
upon Ukrainian cities and the Ukrainian people.  
  
And what are we doing?  We’re focusing a lot on air defense.  I would —
the majority — I don’t have the exact figures with me, but the majority
of cruise missiles that were launched against Ukraine in just the last
48 to 72 hours, the Ukrainians were able to down using air defense — air
defense capabilities that had been provided not only by the United
States but by allies and partners.  
  
So we are continuing to focus on that.  
  
Q    And Secretary of State Blinken said that the U.S. has more
confidence in Ukraine’s capabilities heading into this spring offensive
than was suggested in those leaks.  Can you speak to that?  How much
confidence does the administration have in Ukraine’s spring offensive? 
And when do you expect it to begin?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I’ll tell you what we’re confident in: We’re confident that
we have done just about everything we can here in the United States, but
also speaking broadly for our allies and partners, to make sure they’re
ready if and when President Zelenskyy chooses to go on the offense, and
he’s the only one that can make that decision.  
  
So I can’t answer your second question, but I can tell you that we’ve
done everything we can to make sure that they’re ready.  They have the
vast majority — and by “vast,” I mean something to the order of 98
percent — of what they asked for materially to do offensive operations
in the spring, they’ve got it: armor; artillery; air defense;
ammunition, including just the recent package; not to mention the
training we’ve done for multiple brigades of Ukrainian armed forces
outside the country.   
  
So it’s not just the stuff, it’s the know-how and how to — and how to
use that stuff in the field for what we call “combined arms maneuver,”
which is what they believe they’re going to need operating in open
terrain, integrating mechanized infantry and artillery and air defense
all in the field.  
  
So we’ve done everything we can.  That doesn’t mean that we’re going to
stop.  It doesn’t mean, like, we’re just done.  You’re going to see
continued support from the United States going forward.   
  
But — but as for the actual execution of any kind of spring
counteroffensive, that’s going to be up to President Zelenskyy.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Jeremy.  
  
Q    Thanks.  Hey, John.  In terms of the dr- — the potential drone
attack on the Kremlin, can you just tell us what your baseline of facts
is?  I mean, have you been able to authenticate any of these videos?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  No.  
  
Q    Are you able to confirm that there was a drone attack that indeed
took place?  
  
MR. KIRBY: No.  
  
Q    And can you walk us through any of the potential —  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Next question?  (Laughter.)  
  
Q    You’re going through it.  It’s good.  Rapid fire.   
  
Can you go through any of the potential theories that you have for what
this could have been or what the potential motivations would’ve been?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I think the last thing I’m going to do, Jeremy, is speculate
up here.  We’re — we’re still trying to ascertain exactly what happened
here and do the best we can.  And we’re going to be humble about this,
Jeremy.  There — it may be that we’ll never fully understand exactly
what happened here.  
  
So I — I think I’m just — I think I’m just going to leave it at that. 
I’m not going to speculate.  
  
Q    And then, secondly, on — on China.  The U.S. Ambassador to China
said yesterday that the U.S. is ready to talk and engage at a high level
with Beijing.  So far, it seems like it’s been crickets from Beijing. 
Have you gotten any signal that China is gearing up to be open to that
kind of high-level dialogue again?  And are you putting back on the
table rescheduling Secretary Blinken’s trip to China, which was canceled
earlier this year?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  We never took it off the table.  It was postponed; it was
never canceled.  And I think Secretary Blinken spoke to this yesterday
that we’re — they’re still communicating with the PRC about trying to
get this back on the schedule.  We would certainly like to get them over
to Beijing to open up some more of those lines of communication that the
Chinese shut down after Speaker Pelosi visited Taiwan.  
  
I would tell you that — that’s a good segue to my next point, which is
the lines of communication with the PRC remain open.  I mean, it’s — it
— we —  
  
Q    It seems quite one-sided at this point.  
  
MR. KIRBY:  We do — we have an embassy there.  We have an ambassador. 
We have an ability to communicate directly with the — with the Chinese. 
Certainly through the State Department here at Foggy Bottom in D.C.,
they have the ability to continue to communicate with the PRC.  The
lines of communication are not shut down completely.   
  
The problem is, Jeremy, that some important lines of communication were
shut down, like the military-to-military channel.  And we’d like to see
that get back opened up, because, I mean, I think we can all understand
with all the tensions going on, particularly in the South China Sea,
that the risks of miscalculation go up when you can’t talk to one
another.  
  
Climate change is another venue — vehicle for bilateral communications
that now has shut down.  And, I mean, we believe it’s an existential
threat to the planet.  The Chinese and the United States are two of the
largest emitters of greenhouse gases in the world, so there’s value for
that line of communication to get back opened up.  We’re committed to
that.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Tam.  And then a couple more.  
  
Q    Heading into May 11th, the U.S. is — had some troops going to the
U.S. border and — and other items to prepare for a possible influx of
migrants.  What is the U.S. asking Mexico to do to prepare?  Are you
expecting them to match that force or anything like that?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  No, I would walk you away from thinking that this additional
force deployment has some — there’s some sort of reciprocal action that
we’re looking for from Mexico.  
  
I’d point you to the readout of Liz Sherwood-Randall’s trip to Mexico
City.  I mean, it’s — it’s clear that we’ve got good dialogue with
Mexican authorities, both at getting at drug trafficking as well as
ille- — illegal immigration.  
  
And we’re grateful for the Mexican government’s willingness to continue
to take and house migrants that illegal — illegally are trying to enter
the United States.  So there’s been a terrific dialogue there.  I’d
point you to that.  
  
But — but don’t think about this extra 1,500 troops as some sort of
thing we’re looking for reciprocal behavior.  Again, and Karine did a
good job with this yesterday, but just to reiterate: These — these —
these troops are not going to can- — participate in law enforcement
activities.  They’re simply going for — to — to flesh out what is
already an existing mission by DOD on the border with administrative
tasks, helping with logistics and sustainment and that kind of thing.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Way in the back.  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Japan holds $1.2 trillion, the largest U.S. debt.  And there’s — a
growing number of countries seem to be moving away from the use of the
dollar.  Is there an understanding of this — of a concern for that, as
the world reserve currency is really a big part of why the U.S. is able
to exert its leadership?  Is there understanding of the fact that
countries are beginning to turn away from the use of the dollar and some
way to resolve that?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Well, I’d have to let Japan speak to their economic policy. 
The —  
  
Q    (Inaudible) a number of countries that are beginning to denominate
in dollars away from the U.S. dollar.  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I’m going to have to take your question, sir.  I don’t have
good answer for you.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.  Go ahead, sir.  
  
Q    On Sudan.  One more on Sudan.  Should we read the executive order
then as sort of a warning to both sides about this ongoing conflict? 
And does it signal a shift in the U.S. assessment for the prospects of a
lasting ceasefire?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  We — it — I think we — it would be terrific if there was no
need to execute sanctions one way or another.   
  
No, I wouldn’t read it as a warning.  It’s the President setting up the
proper authorities in case we want to use those kinds of tools.  
  
What we want to happen, and we’ve said this clearly and repeatedly, is
that — for them to put down their arms, stop fighting, get back to the
table to — to work on a transition to civilian authority, which is what
the Sudanese people want.  And just as critically, and I did not mention
this and I was remiss in not doing it, is to allow humanitarian
assistance to get in — food, water, medicine.  All are in short supply,
in Khartoum in particular.  And somewhere — more than half, I think it
is, of the hospitals in Khartoum are now shut down.  
  
None of that’s good for the people of Khartoum or Sudan.  So that’s what
we want.  
  
Q    But has the analysis shifted at all on sort of the prospects for
that ceasefire to hold? 

MR. KIRBY:  We’re going to — we’re still working at that.  I mean, the —
it has been extended, as you know, a couple of times.  There has been
sporadic fighting in spite of that. 

That said, they have led, in general — and I’m speaking generally — to a
reduction in the violence, which is good, but it’s not good enough,
because the humanitarian assistance is still not getting in because it’s
still too tenuous and too dangerous.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay, time for three more. 

Go ahead, Francesca.  
  
Q    Over here.  Thanks.  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I’m going as fast as I can.  
  
Q    Do you expect to ever be in a position to be able to confirm
whether this drone attack took place or not?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  (Throws hands up and shrugs.)   
  
Q    Okay.  (Laughter.) 

As far as Presidents Zelenskyy and Presidents Biden go, are you
expecting any sort of a conversation between them in the near term?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  A conversation between President Biden and  
President Zelenskyy?  
  
Q    That’s right.  
  
MR. KIRBY:  They talk regularly and frequently.  I couldn’t tell you
when the next conversation is going to be, but these are two leaders
that have a frequent, regular communication with one another.  
  
Q    And with respect to the South China Sea, the President is heading
to Australia later this month.  Could you talk a little bit about what
you view to be the benefits of the nuclear-powered submarines and how
that would affect military readiness?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  What this is is about providing — helping provide Australia
with a nuclear-propelled submarine capability, which will obviously —
and you saw the rollout there when we went to San Diego; it’s going to
take a few years to get them there because the engineering work that has
to go in to operating safely, which is essentially a miniaturized
nuclear reactor on an undersea craft, is pretty complicated.  It takes a
lot of hard work.  And we’re looking forward to working with the
Australians and the British to get them this capability.  
  
What — what nuclear power does for you in the undersea environment, it
gives you staying power, it gives you range, and it gives you duration
so that you can stay underwater, stay hidden, and stay lethal for longer
periods of time without having to come up — literally to come up for
air.  
  
So it’s a terrific capability.  We’re absolutely confident that the
Australians are going to be able to master this.  And we’re already hard
at work on getting them there.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Weijia.  
  
Q    Thank you, Karine.  Thanks, John.  Publicly, you’ve said many times
that these allegations are a lie.  And I wonder if, behind the scenes,
that message is being delivered as well, and what you can share about
engagement with the Russians, if there is any, about understanding what
happened.  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I know of no — and I’d refer you to the State Department. 
I’m not aware of any private conversations between us and Russian
officials over this alleged drone attack.  I mean, it just happened
yesterday.  
  
Q    Right.

MR. KIRBY:  But, I mean, I think we’ve been pretty clear that what Mr.
Peskov says is just a blatant, bald lie.  And I don’t know that we need
to privately convey that to him.  I’ve been saying it all morning, and
I’m saying it here again today.  
  
Q    Given the nature of the allegations, what does it tell you about
the intensity of possible retaliation?  In other words, if it is a
false-flag operation, is there a concern that the response is going to
be proportional?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  It’s hard to look at what’s been going on in the Ukraine for
now more than a year and slap a “proportional” label on it.  Ukraine
wasn’t threatening anybody.  They were certainly not threatening
Russia.  And yet, Mr. Putin decided to roll on in with about 190,000
troops, tanks, and other armored vehicles.  
  
He continues to bomb Ukrainian cities and civilian infrastructure with
cruise missiles and drones.  And there’s nothing proportional about
this.  Ukraine is fighting for its life.  They’re fighting to defend
their territory.  And we and so many other nations are doing the best we
can to help them do that.  
  
Now, how Mr. Putin reacts to this alleged drone attack is going to be up
to him.  But it’s difficult to see — at least from where we’re sitting —
it’s difficult to see that he’s sitting around waiting for some excuse
to continue to victimize the Ukrainian people.  
  
Now, maybe he’ll use it that way.  And I don’t know whether it was a
false flag.  But that’s why I pointed you to the last 24 hours.  Just in
the last 24 hours, two dozen Ukrainians killed, some of them shopping
for food for dinner.   
  
The brutality is just — it’s off the charts.  It’s not — it’s not —
there’s nothing proportional about this fight.  Nothing.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  The last question.  Here.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  John, I’ve got a question about a House Oversight
Committee subpoena that was issued yesterday.  It’s seeking an FBI
document from 2020 that, quote, “describes an alleged criminal scheme
involving then-Vice President Biden and a foreign national relating to
the exchange of money for policy decisions.”  What’s the White House’s
response to this serious corruption allegation?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I’m going to have to refer you to the Justice Department on
that.  I have nothing for you on that today.  
  
Q    Do you know what this is — what country this pertains to or what
policy decision?  
  
MR. KIRBY:  I have nothing for you, sir.  I’m going to have to refer you
to the Justice Department.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:   Okay.  
  
MR. KIRBY:  And I’m getting the hook.  (Laughter.)  See ya.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Thank you.  All right.  Thank you so much.  Trying to
move quickly.  
  
Our next guest is OMB Director Shalanda Young, who is here to discuss
how Speaker McCarthy’s Default on America Act would slash program f- —
for families, programs that families rely on.  
  
Before I kick it over to Shalanda, I wanted to note a new analysis from
Council of Economic Advisers, which confirmed with real-time data that
we are already seeing significant market stress from default threats. 
CEA’s analysis showed even getting close to default could be incredibly
damaging to financial markets and cause serious economic harm to
American workers and businesses.  
  
Brinkmanship would cost hundreds of thousands of jobs and slow the
economy.  An actual default would be even more severe, with the economy
losing 8 million jobs if the default were to last three months.  Eight
million jobs for three months — if it were to last for three months.  
  
There is a broa- — broad consensus among economists that default would
create an entirely avoidable economic catastrophe.  That’s what’s at
stake here.  That is what is at stake.  That’s what the President has
been talking about.  That’s what we’ve been trying to make very clear
for the American people what’s ahead if this were to be allowed by House
Republican.  
  
With that, I will turn it over to Shalanda Young to discuss House
Republicans’ Default on American Act in more details.  
  
Shalanda, the floor is yours.  
  
MS. YOUNG:  Thanks.  I am only supposed to come here on Budget Day —
(laughter) — and I promise you I’m not going to surprise you with budget
number two.  But still — still happy to be back with you today.  
  
Look, for most Americans outside of this town, which is who we’re all
here to work for, the conversation around budgets and default are
sometimes made to — by a lot of leaders here — to sound more complicated
than they are.  
  
It’s pretty simple.  Last week, we saw House Republicans pass a partisan
bill that essentially says we’re going to put our entire economy at risk
unless the President agrees to our entire agenda, to gut programs
hardworking families depend on. 

Does it sound extreme?  It’s because it is.   
  
Imagine if this President said “Here’s my budget” on March 9th.  “If you
don’t take it all — lock, stock, and barrel, don’t change your word,
pass it without changes, I’d be willing to cause a recession and cost
millions of people their jobs.”  That would be extreme.  
  
Look, the President’s position is simple: Congress needs to take action
to prevent default, without hostage-taking or political brinksmanship,
just as they did three times under the last President.  He is eager to
have a separate conversation about the budget without threatening our
economy.   
  
But I want to be really clear: This is not some abstract debate.  This
is about real people’s lives.  And it’s important that people understand
exactly what this bill would mean for them.  
  
For starters, it would cut veterans’ benefits.  That’s why we saw public
outcry from two dozen veterans’ groups when this bill was considered.   
  
It jeopardizes public safety, reducing support for law enforcement and
laying off 2,000 Border Patrol agents.  
  
Undermines rail transit safety, leading to 7,500 fewer rail safety
inspection days and increasing wait times at TSA checkpoints.   
  
Slashing funding for schools with low-income students, impacting an
estimated 26 million students.  
  
Taking away nutrition services for seniors.  We’re talking Meals on
Wheels.   
  
It will jeopardize health coverage and access for 21 million
Americans.   
  
The list goes on and on.   
  
And, by the way, if House Republicans ultimately walk away from some of
these deeply unpopular cuts, then their cuts to everything else get
worse.  The math is just the math.   
  
And here’s the kicker: Their bill does all of this, even as they
separately fight to extend trillions of dollars in tax cuts skewed to
the wealthy and corporations in this country.   
  
So don’t let anyone tell you this is about fiscal responsibility or
deficit reduction.  It is not.  This is about using the threat of a
catastrophic default to extract deep cuts that the American people do
not support.   
  
The President has taken a very different approach.  In March, he
released a budget that invests in the American people — you’ve heard me
and you’ve heard the President say this — grows the economy from the
middle out and the bottom up, and cuts the deficit by nearly $3 trillion
over the next decade.  We do that by cutting hundreds of billions of
dollars in wasteful spending from Big Pharma, Big Oil, and other special
interests, and by asking the wealthy and corporations to pay their fair
share.  
  
You know what we don’t do?  We don’t ask American people to be the only
one that gives at the table.  We don’t cut cancer research, Alzheimer’s
research, Head Start slots to put our country on a better fiscal
path.   
  
So the bottom line is: Congress needs to act.  Preventing default is
their basic constitutional responsibility, and they need to get it
done.  Thank you.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  “The math is the math.”  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you.  You’ve laid out the stakes pretty clearly here, but so
far, no one seems to be budging.  So I wonder, especially given, you
know, the clock really ticking at this point, we are just a few weeks
away, at what point do you start planning for default to actually
happen?  Have those plans already started?  Are you talking with
companies?  
  
MS. YOUNG:  Look, we believe — and this might be Shalanda the optimist —
and I’ve worked with a lot of those members of Congress in my nearly 15
years on the Hill — they all know the devastating results of default. 
They all — many of them were around in 2011 when our full faith and
credit was reduced.  
  
And so, I have hope that we will find a path to avoid default, but it’s
our job to keep coming to you, go to the American people, and make sure
people understand what this debate is about.  It’s not complicated.   
  
So this is what we’re doing to make sure we keep that drum beat up.  And
I do believe the majority of the members of Congress know that is the
wrong path to go down.   
  
Look, we saw the partisan process play out; now we need to pivot to a
bipartisan process.  That’s the only thing that’s going to make it to
the President’s desk and avoid default.   
  
Q    You mentioned the U.S. credit rating, which was downgraded the last
time we got this close to default in 2011.  How concerned are you that
we could see a repeat of that; that the U.S. could be downgraded if this
comes down to the wire even if default is ultimately avoided?  
  
MS. YOUNG:  You’ve heard Karine talk about our economists’ report. 
Clearly, any of those things should concern any American.  They’re going
to be paying more for — for loans in this country.  Is it going to take
their cost of living any higher?  Of course, we’re concerned.   
  
We’re calling on the reasonable people in this town to do the right
thing.   
  
Look, a bill tomorrow — this is what we don’t talk about — Congress
could put a bill on the floor tomorrow, avoid default.  The D.C. drama,
the political brinksmanship — that’s what that is.  Nothing is
preventing Congress from moving to avoid default.  And they need to do
that, whether it’s tomorrow or next week.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Catherine.  
  
Q    Thanks.  Shalanda, is a short-term increase to the debt ceiling on
the table?  Is that something you could line up with the September 30th
appropriations schedule?  
  
MS. YOUNG:  Look, I’ll — congressional leaders are going to have to
figure out a way to do this.  Of course, I’m sure there’ll be
conversations about the length.  You saw the length in the congressional
Republicans’ bill that would take us into this situation again, this
time next year.  So I’m sure one of the things on the table we will have
to work through is how long.  I’m not going to take anything off the
table.  
  
The important thing to do is to make sure we do this and leave the drama
behind, regardless of what length we end up in.  
  
Q    And if Congress does not act in time, what’s your comfort level
with issuing premium bonds, prioritizing payments, some of those
strategies we’ve heard talked about?   
  
MS. YOUNG:  I’d like to remind people prioritization and many bills
moving through Congress ideas is default by another name.  Paying some
bills — not all bills: default.   
  
We are Americans; we pay our bills.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Steve.  
  
Q    So it sounds like from your answer to Kevin’s question that you’re
not taking a short-term stopgap off the table.  If Congress were to send
the President a bill that would waive the debt ceiling — let’s say
through the end of September — he would sign it?  
  
MS. YOUNG:  I mean, right now — remember where our debate is.  We’re in
the “take it or leave it” phase from congressional Republicans.  At
least that part of the conversation about length — I would love to be in
that part of the conversation because we’re at least in the positive;
default is off the table.   
  
So I’m happy when we get to that part of the conversation.  We’re not
there yet.  And the idea is to brinks- — put brinksmanship to bed and
get to talking on making sure we avoid default.   
  
And once we’re talking about timeframe, that means we’re at least on the
right side of this debate.   
  
Q    Let me ask you a follow-up on the second, separate part of the
spending question.  The President — we’ve heard him say it a couple of
times now.  He said it on April 19th, when he went to Accokeek,
Maryland.  He said that the — the House Speaker talks “about limiting
spending.  All for that, man.  Let’s limit spending.”  That’s the
President’s quote.   
  
What does he mean when he says that?  Is he — is he serious about
limiting spending?  Or is he mocking the House Speaker?  Is he — is he
suggesting that there might be some cuts he would be amenable to?  What
is — what does he mean when he says that?  
  
MS. YOUNG:  So I don’t know the context of how the President answers
this.  What I will say is I’ve talked to the President a lot about
spending priorities.   
  
This President has made clear — you heard in my topper — there is
spending we like not to talk about: spending on Big Pharma, spending on
Big Oil.  Closing tax loopholes in his budget saves $30 billion.  The
President is happy to cut that spending.  He’s been clear about that. 
Would you rather do that, or would you rather cut Head Start?  
  
So this President has not backed away.  The problem is who you value in
this country.  Is it special interests?  Or do you want to save on the
back of people who can least afford it?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  Three more.  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, (inaudible).  So, quickly — so you laid out how dire the
situation is.  Then why is the meeting with the House Speaker, Kevin
McCarthy, on May 9th?  Why not have it today?  
  
MS. YOUNG:  Well, I don’t know where the Speaker is and what his
schedule is, so I won’t speak to trying to get the leaders of the
country into the same room.  What I do know is the meeting is
happening.  
  
As you know, the President is going to make clear that default has to
come off the table, that he is happy to talk about spending priorities
and who you value in this country, what our right tax policy is in this
country, why every time we have this debate it has to go to working
families in this country first in order to do the right thing for this
country.  That’s what’s important.  
  
That message is going to be delivered and is going to be delivered next
week.  
  
Q    Is there a timeframe where you see def- — the downgrade could
happen?  Are you looking at maybe the last week of May, this month, that
there possibly could be a downgrade?  Is there a date that you guys have
identified where there could be a downgrade (inaudible)?  
  
MS. YOUNG:  Look, I’ll remind you: The — the Secretary’s letter — I know
it gets reported that it was June 1st.  That was an “as early as.”  As
more confidence goes around a number, the Secretary will refine to make
sure all decision-makers know what the updated timeline — when there’s
more confidence around it.  So I think we need to let that work out
before we go into — to knowing when the credit agencies might speak to —
to the full faith and credit of the U.S.   
  
And, by the way, the whole reason I’m here today, the whole reason you
will hear a full administration vote, it’s because we don’t want to get
there.  Because even that has an impact on the American people.  Why
would we do that?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  Two more.  Go ahead, Courtney, in the back.  
  
Q    Thank you.  Will the President go to the meeting next week with
Republicans with a counteroffer on appropriations — next Tuesday’s
meeting about the debt limit — since they’re trying to merge both?  Is
there going to be a counteroffer on spending?  
  
MS. YOUNG:  So you — you’ve heard my outline and what the President will
deliver.  Look, I have a question for you.  We’re skipping a few steps. 
This bill hasn’t gone through the Senate.  I’ve done appropriations a
long time.  Something tells me that those top lines in that bill — there
are many Republicans who could not vote for bills that actually told the
American people by line item what it means.  
  
We’ve talked a lot about veterans.  If people get nervous about those
veterans’ cuts and they decided not to do that, what’s next?  Cancer
research?  You zero out the highway money in the transportation bill?  
  
Go look.  We’ve done this before.  Republicans have done this before:
2013, 2014, put a transportation bill on the floor.  It never left the
floor.  Because those cuts hurt communities, whether you’re represented
by a Democrat or a Republican.  
  
So we’ve seen a partisan process that’s vague on purpose.  Wait until
you see the details.  Let’s see when the appropriations process falls
down.  I think they need to work out some of their own issues to see if
those toplines really sell with congressional Republicans writ large
when we see spending bills come through.  And then they need to tell us
what they can pass and get to the President’s desk.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  Last question.  
  
Q    On appropriations, can I ask one more, Karine?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Quickly.  
  
Q    On appropriations, I know that you sat at the beginning of the year
with the four cardinals on appropriations and talked about how important
it is to get back on a regular order to be done by September.  How does
that play in here with the debt ceiling negotiations or conversations? 
And are you still committed to that regular order?  
  
MS. YOUNG:  We should be.  Everyone in this town will tell you regular
order is a good thing.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Jordan?   
  
MS. YOUNG:  It ma- — what — it makes it hard —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Sorry.  
  
MS. YOUNG:  — it makes it hard when appropriations spending is being
brought in to default conversation.  Those things should be handled
separately.  That’s my entire point.  
  
So not only is it catastrophic from a default perspective, it sets us on
a road to be ineffective in the appropriations process.  So this is a
cascading problem, and we need to look at it that way with a holistic
approach.  
  
How do you do the spending process when it’s being brought forward into
this very partisan process?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Last question.   
  
Q    Director, thank you for being here.  You said that nothing’s off
the table.  Does that apply to the President invoking the 14th Amendment
if that is necessary, if this comes down to the wire?  
  
MS. YOUNG:  Oh, well, let me be very clear: Congress  
needs to do its job.  Tomorrow, they could put a bill on the floor to
make sure we don’t default.  This is of people’s own making.   
  
I could probably write the bill for them in five minutes.  It’s pretty
easy.  (Laughter.)  
  
And we need to, like, keep reminding ourselves this is — this is — this
made up.  This is made up drama.  And we believe that just as they did
three times for the last President, hundreds of times in the history of
this country, that it is Congress’s duty to ensure we don’t default.  
  
Q    And yet, at this point, no one is blinking.  So if we get to May
30th and there’s still no deal, would the President entertain the
possibility of invoking the 14th Amendment?   
  
MS. YOUNG:  We continue to have the position that this is Congress’s
duty to do.   
  
Q    So it’s not off the table?  
  
MS. YOUNG:  It is Congress’s duty to do, and we will continue to say
that.  
  
Q    Let me just ask you about Avril Haines.  She told a Senate panel
today that almost certainly China and Russia would use a default to
demonstrate chaos in the United States.  Do you agree with that
assessment?  And how broad would this disaster be — would it be for the
U.S. to default?  
  
MS. YOUNG:  I have the utmost respect for the DNI, and I couldn’t agree
with her more.   
  
This — this is — this just gives to our global competitor.  They love
this.  They love to see chaos in the American system.  They love to see
that we can’t do our basic jobs.  It’s no less than a test of what works
in this world.  Does democracy still work or does the Chinese way
work?  
  
And things like this, we have to step up to the plate and do what’s
right for the American people, because it’s no less than what the DNI
has — has laid out.  
  
And, by the way, some of these cuts — and I know people want to take
defense off the table — what about our research?  What about
manufacturing?  In all the progress we made in bringing manufacturing
back to this country, why would we, at this moment in time, with the
progress we’ve seen in unemployment, manufacturing jobs, making it in
America — why would we do anything in this country to not only halt but
reverse that with having a made-up fight that could be ended tomorrow?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  Thank you, ma’am.  
  
MS. YOUNG:  Thank you.  You all looked lovely this weekend. 
(Laughter.)  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Thank you.  
  
Q    You did, too.  
  
MS. YOUNG:  Thank you.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  TED Talk.  Shalanda’s TED Talk.  (Laughter.)  We love
it.   
  
Okay.  Now, we’re running out of time, guys, but I’m going to give you
the week ahead so all of you have that.  So — and that’s before I take
any more questions.  And, of course, you should be interested in what
the President is doing next week.  
  
So, tomorrow, the President will participate in a meeting on how his
Investing in America agenda is creating good-paying jobs and rebuilding
the economy from the middle out and bottom up.  
  
On Monday, the President will host a screening of Born — “American Born
Chinese” in celebration of Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific
Islander Heritage Month.  
  
On Tuesday, the President will meet, as you all know, with Speaker Kevin
McCarthy, Leader Hakeem Jeffries, Leader Chuck Schumer, and Leader Mitch
McConnell at the White House.  We will have more to share on that.  
  
On Friday, President Biden looks forward to welcoming President Pedro
Sánchez of Spain to the White House to further deepen the historic ties
between the United States and Spain.  The two leaders will review our
efforts as NATO Allies and close partners to strengthen our bilateral
defense relationship, transatlantic security, and economic prosperity.  
  
They will discuss our unwavering support for Ukraine and our efforts to
impose costs on the Kremlin as Russia continues its brutal war of
aggression.  
  
The leaders will — will coordinate on a range of issues as Spain
prepares to assume the rotating presidency of the Council of the Europ-
— of the European Union in July, including climate change and expanded
cooperation with Latin America and the Caribbean.  
  
With that, Colleen.  Good to see you.  I haven’t seen you since Ireland,
I feel like.  
  
Q    Thanks.  I know.  I was — I think that’s right, actually.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    Okay.  So, two questions.  One on the border: We’re already seeing
signs of, you know, massive strain at border facilities and especially
in the Rio Grande Valley.  And, you know, Title 42 is ending next week. 
How confident is the President that the — the — the fixes that he’s put
in place are going hold, given that we’re already seeing, you know,
strains in the system?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So let me first say that — look, as you know, we have
been putting forth policies and programs for the past several months,
kind of heading into May 11th and understanding — right? — that Title 42
was — is going to lift.

And so, you’ve heard from the Department of Homeland Security, you’ve
heard from the State Department; they just held a press conference last
week.  And so, you — we have laid out what the tools in our toolbox that
the President is able to use to deal with this issue, to deal with the
challenges that we’re seeing at the border.  And this is something that
the President has been taking very seriously from the beginning of his
administration. 

And we have asked Congress to take action.  We have asked Congress to
meet us even halfway as we put forward a legislation on the first day of
his administration — a comprehensive immigration piece of legislation. 
And we understand how important it is to modernize a broken system. 

So, we take this seriously.  We put — we put our processes in place.  I
can say, as some — some of you are already following, that Secretary
Mayorkas is at the border in Texas today with many of your colleagues to
assess ongoing preparations for the return to Title 8 immigration
processing, something that I spoke about today.

They’ll be visiting a processing center, a port of entry meeting with
migrants and agents, and observing some of the removal flights that DHS
is ramping up. 

Secretary Mayorkas is going to hold a press conference tomorrow at 2:00
p.m.  So, I just — I would recommend or suggest — a friendly suggestion
to listen in on his press conference on the multi-agency comprehensive
response that we’re having today. 

And — and so, I’ll leave it there.  Look, I can’t say what it’s going to
look like after — after May 11th.  But what I can say is that this is an
administration that has taken the challenges that we see at the border
very seriously since day one. 

Q    Thank you.  And then, on the other question, the President stopped
by an AI meeting today.  So, I wondered if you could talk a little bit
about his views on AI and what he asked ChatGPT.  (Laughter.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I can — I can — I know there was questions about
this, about if the President has — has used ChatGPT.  Yes, the President
has been extensively briefed on ChatGP- — -GPT, and has been — and knows
how it works.  So, I can confirm that. 

And I know, as it relates to his thoughts — but what I want to — you
know, I haven’t go- — I haven’t asked him about his thoughts on it. 

But look, this is something that is important to the President.  This is
why he has had continuing engagement on this issue.  As you know, he had
one very recently with PCAST.  And you — you all got to hear a little
bit from him. 

As it relates today, the Vice President and senior administration
officials convened the CEO meeting — and these CEOs lead companies at
the forefront of I- — AI innovation — to underscore the President and
Vice President’s belief that AI is one of the most powerful technologies
of our time, but in order to seize — seize the opportunities it present,
we must mitigate the risk.  And that’s what we want to see.  We want the
risk mitigated, and we want the products to be safe. 

And so, that is what you’re seeing from these — this engagement, in
particular, with CEOs.  But that is something that the President has —
certainly want to make sure that we’re dealing with AI in the way that,
as we know, is the most powerful technology of our time.  But we have to
make sure that we protect people’s rights.  And that’s what you’re
seeing this — this administration doing.  
  
Go ahead.

Q    Director Young said a moment ago that the math was the math when it
comes to the — the debt ceiling issue.  Does that apply to vote count as
well?  Because neither the House or the Senate have the requisite votes
to pass a clean debt limit increase.  So, the solution that the
President is proposing is at odds with the current reality on the Hill. 
Does he need to adjust in order to get right with — with reality?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, Congress needs to act.  Really.  And when she
says —

Q    But the votes don’t exist.  I mean —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Wait.  Hold on a second.  When you say — when she said
“the math is the math,” this is going to be catastrophic for American
people.  There’s a reason why we call the bill that House Republicans
put together the Default on America Act, because it is. 

If they move forward with what they put forward — and we know all of
House Republicans and MAGA Republicans voted on this bill — it is going
to hurt American families.  And it is the President’s job to also be
very clear with Congress, with Republicans in Congress: You got to do
your job.  It is simple.  You take an oath.  This is it.  This is the
basic thing that you need to do for the American people to make sure
that we are not a deadbeat nation.

Seventy-eight times.  Seventy-eight times that we have been able to do
this since 1960.  Three times in the last administration. 

So the question is to them.  The question is to Speaker McCarthy, as
I’ve said many times before here, is to — to the MAGA Republicans: What
is going on here?  Why can you not get this done?  It is simple.  It is
simple. 

And to — just to take it back to the — to the President, the President
has done more for the American people, certainly, than MAGA Republicans
have done in the last two years.

Q    Do you have a solution that you can present next week that will get
60 votes in the Senate?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  The President is going to bring — bring the four
leaders of the House and the Senate to the White House, as you know,
next Tuesday, May 9th, as you just stated.  And he’s going to lay out
what the consequences are.  He’s going to — he’s going to be very clear
that congressional members need to take action. 

This is their constitutional duty.  He’s going to be incredibly clear on
that, as he has been for months.  For months, we’ve been very clear. 

We — we do not understand why they can’t get this done.  In the last
Republican administration, Democrats put their politics aside, and they
came together with Republicans and got this done. 

Look, we can have — every — every year, we have a conversation about the
budget.  That is something that happens.  Right?  You have a
conversation about appropriations, you have a conversation about the
budget, and you negotiate.  That makes sense. 

We’re having a conversation about default?  Really?  When it’s their job
to get that done?

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  I wanted to ask about — there’s been some tumult
in the banking sector, specifically in the stock market.  And it seems
like the concern has moved from depositors pulling their money out of
mid-range banks to investors in mid-range banks.  And in 2008, during
the financial crisis, U.S. regulators imposed a stop on short selling of
these banks.  So I’m wondering if that is something that is under
consideration by the White House right now.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I can say the administration is going to closely
monitor the market developments, including the short selling pressures
on health- — on healthy — on healthy banks.  I would have to — I would
have to refer you, Justin, to the <s>SCE</s> \[SEC\] on any possible
actions.  But certainly this is something that we’re going to continue
to monitor.  
  
Q    And then, quickly, I was just going to follow on Colleen’s
question.  On the AI meeting, the sort of concession from companies
going in was that they would allow folks to — to look at the underlying
models at this hacker convention coming up in August.  In the Vice
President’s statement, she said that she and the administration endorse
new laws and regulations on AI. 

Does the White House want to see AI products go through sort of a
regulatory look under the hood before they’re released?  Or are they —
are you guys okay with the status quo, which is that stuff is just
coming out, and then maybe after the fact companies will agree?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I’m not going to get ahead of the readout.  Look,
it — it was a frank conversation.  It was a honest, frank conversation,
which included discussion on a couple of things — three main things: is
the need for companies to be more transparent with policymakers, the
public, and others about their AI systems in particular; the importance
of being able to evaluate, verify, and validate the safety, security,
and ef- — and the efficacy of AI systems; and the need to ensure AI
systems are secure from malicious actors and attacks, as you were just
stating, Aus- — Justin.

Look, we have led on these issues since long before these newest
generation — gene- — generative, I should say, AI products, and will
continue to do so in a way that mitigates risk.  Again, mitigates risk
and protects Americans.  That’s what we want to move forward with. 

And, look, again, honest conversation, frank conversation.  You had four
CEOs here meeting with the Vice President and the President.  That shows
how seriously we take it.   
  
We had the PCAST meeting just last month to talk about how to — to talk
to — so the President could talk to his team on what we can do.   
  
And look, we’re going to continue to have these engagement with critical
stakeholders on this issue.  This is — this is important to the
President.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  I — you know, you’ve said many times that it’s up
to Congress to raise the debt ceiling.  If that does not happen, will
the White House and the President be confident in saying, “We did
everything in our power to avoid it”?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I think the — the question is to Congress: Did they do
what they were supposed to do to avoid it — their constitutional duty? 
It is — I get the question.  And I understand he’s the President.  And I
understand why you all asked the question.   
  
But this is so easy.  This is not difficult.  It truly, truly is not. 
Seventy-eight times this has been done since 1960s.   
  
It — this is something that we are supposed to do: pay our debt — pay
our debt — which we have done; we have never not done.   
  
And so, look, the President is going to have them here.  He’s going to
lay out why it is so important and critically important that we do not
allow the American families to be hurt here, because that’s what the
default will be.  That’s what their bill will do.  And so, it is on
them.  It is on them.   
  
I hope when Speaker McCarthy comes here next week, you all can ask him —
ask him that question.  What is he going to do? He is the leader of the
Republican caucus — right? — the Republican Conference.  He is the
Speaker.  This is something that he needs to do.   
  
Speaker Pelosi make — made it happen.  She put the politics aside and
made it happen.   
  
So — and this is something that, you know, we want to communicate with
you all, and we understand that you guys get the process here, but we
also want the American people to understand, which is what the director
said just moments ago.  
  
Q    And then, on another topic.  Does the President believe that there
should be a code of conduct for the Supreme Court?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So I know I’ve been asked about ethics and this
question many times before.  The Senate is currently moving forward with
a process.  We’re going to leave it to the Senate for now.  
  
Q    But his own commission on the Supreme Court, which he established,
issued a report in 2021 —   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Understood.  
  
Q    — that said, “A code of conduct for the court would bring the court
into line with the lower federal courts,” et cetera.   
  
Did the President read that report?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Understood.  The President has — has seen the report. 
He — we have said many times before he appreciated the bipartisan
commission that came together and put the report together — put the
report that you’re just speaking of.  
  
As it relates to this moment in time, the Senate clearly is taking —
taking some sort of action.  They’re going through their process.  And
we’re just going to leave it there for now.  
  
Q    And finally, on this topic, you have said from the podium that
you’re not going to comment on any stories having to do with Justice
Thomas and his own code of conduct.  Why not?   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Right now, it is being — as it relates to the ethics,
as it relates to that process, the Senate is clearly moving forward with
their own — own Senate procedural process.  I’m just going to leave it
there for now.   
  
Q    Thank you.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Actually, I’m going to go take it to the back, and
I’ll come back down.  
  
Who have I not called on?  Go ahead, sir.  
  
Q    Hi.  I have two questions about President Sánchez’s visit.  Is the
President going to do a joint press conference?  
  
And also, we’ve had the leaders of the Philippines, Ireland, and Brazil
here without joint press conferences with the President.  What is the
threshold for which leaders get a joint press conference and which ones
don’t?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, I appreciate the question.  We — we had a joint
press conference just recently — just last week — with the South Korean
President, as you know.  We’ve — I’m sure you probably listened in on
it, which happened I think about a week ago.  Today is — no, last
Wednesday.  So that occurred.  
  
I don’t have anything to share about Spain and their travels.  And we’ll
have more details about what that — what the agenda will look like.   
  
Look, every conversation is different.  It is a diplomatic conversation
that occurs when a — when we talk about what they’re going to be doing
here at the White House.  I just don’t have anything more to share on
that.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you.  France’s chief inspector for prisons denounced, in a
report published yesterday, indiscriminate arrests at French pension
protests.  She said — she talked about systematic use of police
detention as a method of repression.  What is the administration’s take
on this latest accusation against the police in France?   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — I would refer you to the police in French — in
France to — to deal with this question.  
  
Q    (Inaudible)?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I would refer you to them.   
  
Go ahead, Mary.    
  
Q    You keep saying that the President next week, at this meeting with
the congressional leaders, is going to lay out the consequences, outline
why this is so important.  You also noted, though, that you guys have
been laying out the stakes for weeks, and yet nothing has changed.  What
makes the President think that getting in this room, laying out yet
again what is at stake here is somehow going to suddenly change
Republicans’ calculus?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, you know this President.  He’s been the
President.  He’s been the Vice President.  He’s been the senator.  He’s
been on the other side of Pennsylvania Avenue dealing with these types
of issues.  He knows these folks, right?  He knows the — these leaders. 
And the President has been able to get things done in a bipartisan way
in the past.  We have the record to show that.   
  
And so he’s going to sit down, have an honest conversation, a frank
conversation.  Don’t want to get into what could happen or what might
happen coming out of them.   
  
But I think it’s important for the President of the United States to lay
out on behalf of the American people what this will mean — directly,
face-to-face — directly to the Speaker.  And so that’s what you’re going
to see.  
  
Look, we know that Leader Jeffries and we know that Leader Schumer and
the President are on the same page.  They have been on the same page for
months.  This is something that Congress needs to do.  And we’ve been
calling on Speaker McCarthy and House Republicans to do their jobs.   
  
So, look, they’re going to have a very frank and honest conversation. 
This is something that the President knows how to do and has done it in
various positions.  And so we’ll — we’ll see how it goes.  
  
Q    One other quick thing.  On the shooting in Atlanta, has the
President reached out to any of the families or the victims?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have anything to preview or read out on any
conversations that the President has had with any of the victims of the
shooting yesterday.

Clearly, it was a gut-wrenching event.  And, you know, our  
hearts — our hearts go out to — to the victims and the families in
another horrific, horrific gun violence that we have seen — we’re seeing
in our communities.   
  
AIDE:  You have time for one more.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay, go ahead, Karen.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  What’s the White House reaction to the Proud Boys
leader and three of his top lieutenants of the group being convicted of
seditious conspiracy for their role in the January 6th attack?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, clearly, we — we have seen the verdict.  And — but
while the verdict has been reached in this case, we are also very
mindful that there are other similar cases pending, and so we don’t want
to interfere clearly with those.  So I would refer you to Department of
Justice for comment on this case as it related — on this case as it
related to other cases as well.   
  
But — but we’re just going to be really mindful as we know there are
pending — other pending issues here.   
  
Okay.  Thanks, everybody.  
  
2:22 P.M. EDT
