---
date: '2023-05-03'
published_time: 2023-05-03 17:41:37-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2023/05/03/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-31/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine\_Jean-Pierre"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

1:33 P.M. EDT  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Good afternoon, everybody.  As you all know, next week
the President will reiterate the need for Congress to act on the debt
limit.  He will also discuss initiating a separate process to address
the budget and appropriations because, as we have long said, we welcome
a conversation about spending priorities while reining in wasteful
spending.

The President has already cut the deficit by $1.2 — $1.7 trillion.  And
his budget cuts wasteful spending, including on Big Pharma and Big Oil,
and achieves a deficit reduction of $3 trillion over the next 10 years.

That’s because the President thinks we should cut oil, gas subsidies at
a time when Big Oil made $200 billion in profit last year.

It’s because the President thinks we should save taxpayers hundreds of
billions in prescription drug costs when just five pharma companies made
$80 billion in profit last year.

So the President’s commitment to cutting wasteful spending has never
been in doubt.  But MAGA Republicans in Congress have taken the opposite
approach.  They want to protect wasteful spending for Pharma, Big Oil,
and other special interests, and instead put forward a spending proposal
that would hurt veterans and devastate federal and local law
enforcement.

We’ve already detailed how their Default on America Act would cut 81,000
jobs from the VA, reduce outpatient visit by 30 million, and increase
the disability claims backlog by an estimated 134 <s>billion</s>
\[thousand\].

Sadly, their bill also makes defunding law enforcement one of the most
high-profile legislative actions of their new majority.  Nearly every
single member of the House Republican conference just voted to slash the
Drug Enforcement Agency, lay off over 2,000 Border Patrol agents, slash
COPS program, and slash the FBI and ATF budgets.  And they are doing all
of this just as they can continue to give the richest Americans and the
biggest corporations a handout.

In doing so, they’ve signaled to the whole country, to the American
people, that they are willing to give fentanyl-pushing drug cartels a
pass, hamstring the Border Patrol, and emaciate the budgets of local and
federal law enforcement’s officers on the frontlines of fighting violent
crime.

The President has long said — and you’ve heard me say this as well, and
he said this many, many times — “Don’t tell me what you value.  Show me
your budget, and I’ll tell you what you value.”

Unfortunately, the Republican spending plan shows that they value tax
giveaways to the rich more than they value law enforcement who keep our
community safe.

Now, today marks the 30th World Press Freedom Day.  It is not an
exaggeration to say that the free press is essential to our democracy
and democracies everywhere.

As the President has said, Evan Gershkovich and Austin Tice weigh heavy
on our minds today and every day.  Their wrongful detentions are part of
a deeply troubling trend we see around the world that we must stand up
and call out. 

As you may know — or as you may not know, in 2022 alone, the Committee
to Protect Journalists estimates that 363 journalists were jailed simply
for doing their job — a new record high.

The U.S. government is doing everything it can through our diplomacy and
foreign assistance to support journalists, keep them safe, and hold
accountable the autocrats and their enablers who continue to repress a
free and independent media.

Second, I want to take this moment to celebrate the return of one of
your colleagues, Benjamin Hall.  Ben returned to the State Department
briefing room this week for the first time since sustaining severe
injuries while covering the war in Ukraine.  We are glad to have him
back.  But we continue to mourn the loss of so many other journalists
who have been killed or injured there as — as they work to shed light on
the conflict’s horror that we’re seeing in Ukraine currently.

As President Biden said, and I quote, “Today and every day, we must all
stand with journalists around the world.  We must all speak out against
those who wish to silence them.  And we must all continue to support a
free press that is essential, again, to our democracy” and — “our
democracy and democracies everywhere.”

In other news, we will have — we will have an announcement today that —
from the Biden-Harris administration: a new package of security
assistance to help Ukraine continue to defend itself on the battlefield
and protect its people against Russian aggression.

The package, which will be announced later this afternoon by Departments
of State and Defense, includes more ammunition for U.S.-provided HIMARS
that Ukraine has been using so effectively, as well as additional
howitzers, artillery, and mortar rounds, and anti-armor capabilities.

This is the 37th package of security assistance for Ukraine using
presidential drawdown authorities.  And it follows — it follows
extensive work by the U.S. government over the past few months to
fulfill Ukraine’s request ahead of its planned counteroffensive, and
ensure they have the weapons and equipment they need.

We will continue to work with our allies and partners around the world
to support Ukraine as they defend their democracy.

Finally, today, the World Bank’s Board of Governors elected Ajay Banga
as its next president with resounding approval.  Ajay has the right
leadership and management skills experience in emerging markets and
financial expertise to lead the World Bank at a critical moment in its
history.   
  
Ajay will play a key role steering the World Bank to address global
challenges we face, like climate change and pandemics and fragility and
conflict, while ushering in the fundamental changes in development
finance that this moment requires.   
  
President Biden and our administration are looking forward to working
with Ajay in this new role.  
  
And bless you. 

  
With that, Aamer.  
  
Q    Thank you.  Has the administration determined that there’s any
validity to Russia’s claim that it’s thwarted an attempted drone strike
on the Kremlin aimed at President Putin?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, we are aware of the reports but are unable to
confirm the authenc- — authenticity of them at this time.  And so I
don’t want to get into speculation from here about what happened.  But
we are — we are indeed aware of the reports.  
  
Q    Separately, is — does the administration see Putin, as the
commander-in-chief of Russian troops that have waged this war against
Ukraine, as a lawful military target?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, here’s what I will say: Since the beginning
of this conflict, the United States is certainly not encouraging,
enabling — or enabling Ukraine to strike beyond its borders.  We’ve been
very clear from — from here about that.   
  
But again, I don’t want to get into speculation from here about the
autencity \[sic\] — authenticity of this report.  So I’m just not going
to speculate from here.   
  
Q    If I could just ask you a follow-up on yesterday with the
announcement on 1,500 troops going to the border.  Does the
administration plan to take any additional steps in the days ahead? 
Once those COVID-era restrictions expire in a few days, do you feel
ready for what may be coming next on the border?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, as you mentioned, we announced — the
Department of Defense announced that they will have personal — personnel
troops supporting CBP at — at the border.  And this has occurred, as I
mentioned here at the — at the podium, for more — for almost two
decades.   
  
It is going to be in the role of performing administrative task, data —
data entry, and also warehouse — warehouse report.  It will allow CBP to
actually be able to perform their duties, which is critical to their law
enforcement duties, if you will.  They will not be engaging with the
migrants.  So I just want to be clear about that.   
  
We have been — this administration — for the past several months — and
you’ve heard from the Department of Homeland Security a couple of times
in the past several months; you’ve heard from the Department of State as
well, when they did their — their press conference last week — we’ve
been preparing for what is to come when Title 42 is lifted.  And we have
put programs in place.   
  
And — and, you know, we will have more to share.  Whether it’s process
centers, whether it’s the troops, whether it’s the parolee program, we
have clearly — the President is using, this administration is using the
tools that they have available to them to deal with — to deal what will
— the next steps, I should say, after Title 42 lifts.

I will also add — and we’ve been saying this — again, you know, Congress
needs to act.  They need to stop — Republicans need to stop doing a
political stunts and need to come to the table and — and deal with this
in a bipartisan way.   
  
The President has taken this very seriously.  As you all know, on the
first day of this administration, he put forth a comprehensive
immigration plan because he understands how critically important this
issue is.   
  
Go ahead, Mary.  
  
Q    I understand that you can’t confirm the authenticity of this
alleged drone attack.  But regardless of that, how concerned are you, as
Ukrainian officials have suggested, that Russia could use this to launch
some new kind of provocation?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, I — I want to be super mindful here.  Again,
we’ve heard the reports.  Not something we want to — that we are able to
confirm.  I want to be incredibly mindful here.   
  
It is really too early to tell, as you asked me about a false flag,
essentially.  But, obviously, Russia has a history of doing things like
this.   
  
But again, I don’t want to speculate; I don’t want to get into
hypotheticals from here.  But we’re just unable to confirm at this
time.  
  
Q    And on the steps that you are taking to prepare for the end of
Title 42, this agreement was announced, you know, overnight between the
U.S. and Mexico.  Can you just help us understand how many migrants will
Mexico continue to accept under this new agreement and for how long? 
You know, they had agreed to, I believe, 30,000 a month.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So just a — just a couple of things so folks are
aware.  So while Republicans continue to push to lay off 2,000 Border
Patrol agents, we are firing on all cynd- — cylinders to prepare for the
return to Title 8 on May 11th.   
  
And so, last week, the Biden-Harris administration announced those
sweeping measures that I mentioned moments ago from the State and DHS to
expand legal pathways, launch regional process centers, surge asylum
officers and judges, and more.   
  
And yesterday, as you are alluding to here, Mary, we announced
additional joint actions with Mex- — Mexico, including participation in
regional processing centers and continuation of effective border
enforcement measures under Title 8.   
  
And so we’re using all the tools available to us.  I don’t have a number
to share at this time.  But this is something that, again, we’re taking
very seriously as we head towards the lifting of Title 8 on May 11th. 
We are doing everything that we can to put programs, to put processes in
ti- — in place to deal with what will occur at the border.   
  
Again, we need Congress to act.  
  
Q    As part of this agreement, though, Mexico has agreed to continue
accepting migrants from these four countries that have been turned away
at the U.S. border.  As part of this agreement, is the U.S. providing
any funding to Mexico?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, not going to get into — these are diplomatic
conversations that are happening, diplomatic — diplomatic discussions. 
Certainly not going to get into that from here. 

But I can say this: Our two countries are committed to working together
and — to address our regional migration challenge, and we’ve both taken
action to address this humanitarian situation.  Mexico, as you all know,
is a sovereign country that makes its own decision, and we welcome their
partnership in this, as we have been partners with — with others in the
region.

Again, I’m just not going to get into diplomatic conversations from
here.

Go ahead.

Q    You mentioned that the administration is preparing for what is to
come or what will occur after Title 42 lifts.  Can you describe or
provide some detail as to what the White House is anticipating when this
COVID-era border restriction expires?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, not going to — look, we know — and I’ve said this
— we have tools that are in front of us that the President is going to
use to deal with what we are seeing at the border.  And this is
something that the President has taken initiative on since the beginning
of this administration. 

And we want to do this in a safe, orderly, and humane way.  That has
been kind of the mantra of how we see moving forward with the
immigration system. 

And we’re doing this without help, without assistance from Congress,
Republicans in Congress in particular.  And — and we’re doing everything
that we can to be prepared for once Title 42 lifts.

I don’t have any numbers to share for you at this time.  I don’t have —
we don’t have a kind of speculation or hypotheticals of what will happen
once Title 42 lifts.  We just know that we are preparing for that — for
that to occur on May 11th, and we’ll continue to do that. 

And, again, you’ve heard from the Department of Homeland Security,
you’ve heard from the Department of State that they’ve held a press
conference just last week to lay out some of the processes and some of
the tools that we are using.

Q    Well, and to that end, the administration has taken unprecedented
measures, be it deporting now certain non-Mexican nationals to Mexico
for the first time, preparing to roll out an asylum regulation.  How
confident is the President that this will drive down numbers while also
facing criticism from his own allies that he should not be taking these
steps?  And then also, is he talking to the mayors who are asking for
more assistance?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So those are two separate questions.  I’ll take the
first one. 

As you talk about criticism for our — from our allies, the President put
forward a plan to manage the challenges that we’re seeing at the border
on his first day.

And, you know, again, Republicans refuse — they refuse to come to the
table.  They’ve refused to pass the plan to fund — to fund the plan that
he put forward.  And so until Congress acts, we’re using the tools that
we have available to us to face this challenge.

Again, a safe, orderly, humane way of moving forward with what we’re
seeing at the border.

We’re expanding legal pathways for protection.  We’re limiting unlawful
immigration.  We’re increasing border security.  And we’re working with
regional partners to jointly manage this challenge — as we just
announced, Title 8 with Mexico. 

As it relates to cities, I have said this yesterday that, you know,
we’re in regular communication with cities — mayors and cities across
the country who are dealing with this issue.  The State Department and
Department of Homeland Security put out a plan to manage regional
migration flows and reduce unlawful migration.  And, you know, they are
also in regular touch with border communities.  And we’ll be awarding an
additional 250- — $290 million in the upcoming weeks to support them.

So that is the assistance that we are providing to them.  We are
committed to managing this challenge, again, in a safe, orderly, and
humane way.  That is what we have said since the beginning of this
administration.  That’s what we will continue to do.

Go ahead, Nandita.

Q    Thanks, Karine. Just a quick question on Russia.  A senior aide to
Zelenskyy called the acquisition from Russia a sign that the Kremlin was
planning a major new attack.  I know you don’t want to speculate on the
— the authenticity of the attack overnight, but do you — does the U.S.
have any signs to believe that the Russians are planning a new major
attack?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, you know, just not going to — not going to just
get ahead — I’m not going to get ahead of — I know about the
conversation or that reporting.  I just don’t — want to be really
careful.  I just don’t want to — I’m not able to confirm anything from
here, and so just don’t want to speak further on that.

Q    But just — just anything on false-flag operations and, you know,
how — how they have evolved?  We’ve continued to sort of see the
administration talk about it.  Any — any new details on that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, just as I said moments ago to your colleague:
Look, we — we know that Russia has a history of doing this.  They have a
history of doing false flag.  It is not unusual.  It is incredibly
common.  I just don’t want to speculate at this time.

Q    Okay.  And a quick one on — on the AI meeting happening at the
White House tomorrow with Microsoft and Google.  I’m just sort of
curious as to why the White House decided to have this meeting now. 
Obviously saw the RNC use AI in its — in its video to respond to the
President’s election announcement.  And so are you doing this because
you’re — the White House is concerned about the use of AI in ‘24 or
elections going forward?  Can you — can you give us any details on that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, just to let folks know, as you just men- —
stated, the Vice President is — Vice President Harris and senior
administrations official will meet with the CEO of four American
companies at the forefront of AI innovation to underscore the importance
of developing safeguards that mitigate risks and potential harms, while
driv- — driving responsible, trustworthy, and ethical innovation.

This builds on the considerable steps the administration has taken to
date to promote responsible innovation that protects people’s rights and
safety, work that includes the Blueprint for an AI Bill of Rights and
the AI Risk Management Framework as well. 

There’s going to be a press conference this evening that’s going to
discuss the administrative policy, more specifically, on AI and also
provide additional information for all of you as we go into tomorrow’s
meeting. 

But certainly this is something that this administration has been
doing.  This is part of the ongoing engagement. 

Now, what you’re seeing tomorrow is just going to be a conversation that
the Vice President is having with CEO members, but this just builds on
what we have been doing these past several months. 

Q    Should we think of this as a precursor to perhaps, you know, the
White House asking Congress for a legislative push on AI?  Or can you
share any details on that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, what I will say is: This is — continues our
engagement on this particular matter.  We’re going to have this
conversation — the VP and senior administrative officials will have the
conversation with CEOs.  We have had a — kind of, a comprehensive, if
you — if you will, study or look into this.  I’m just not going to get
ahead of — of what — what will essentially come out of the
administration as it relates to the AI situation. 

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks.  By time the President appears at a dinner tonight, it’ll
have been about 48 hours since he’s had a public appearance.  So, what
has he been doing in that time?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  He’s been meeting with — having internal meetings in
the Oval Office.  I had a meeting with him earlier today with his senior
— senior advisors, senior staff, talking about the issues that matter to
the American people. 

It’s not unusual.  This is something that he does every day.  And like
you said, you’ll see him later this evening.  There’ll be press
available for — for the toast that the President is going to — is going
to give.

It’s going to be, as you know, an open press avail at the top.  And
you’ll get to see the President then.

Q    Great.  And I have one more.  If the Fed raises interest rates
again today, as it’s poised to do, costs for Americans who are borrowing
on their credit cards, mortgages, and student loans are going to go up
again. 

So, what does this administration have to say to working families who
have already slid into debt over rising inflation and are now going to
be paying more?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So here’s what I’ll say first — to the Fed.  As you
know, first and foremost, the Fed is an independent — is independent,
and we do not comment on the — or interfere in their policies. 

The President made that clear.  He wanted to make sure that the Fed has
— has space to — to make their decision and to make monetary policy.  So
I want to be very clear about that. 

As it relates to inflation more broadly, this is a President that has —
when it comes to his economic policy, he’s put lowering costs for the
Americans a top priority.  And we understand — and you hear this from
the President as well — we understand that the American people — some
people are still feeling the squeeze and still feeling, kind of, the
pressure, if you will, of where we are with our economy. 

And so, when you look at the data, there has been — there has been some
— some relief and progress in fighting inflation — the consumer price
index, more specifically.  Inflation has fallen over the last nine
months.  Inflation is at the lowest rate it has been in almost two
years, since May 2020.  Inflation has fallen about 45 percent from its
peak last year. 

Wages rose last month and are higher than they were nine months ago,
accounting for inflation as well.  Gas prices are down about $1.40 from
the peak after Putin’s invasion.  And grocery prices fell last month for
the first time since September 2020. 

Again, we understand that there’s more work to do.  The President gets
that and understands that.  That’s why the Inflation Reduction Act was
so important, as we talk about energy costs — lowering that; as we talk
about healthcare costs — lowering that.  And he’ll continue to do the
work to see what else we can do to help the American people. 

Go ahead.

Q    Following up on — on this announcement of processing with Mexico. 
Right around the same time that that was announced, Mexico’s President
sent a public letter to President Biden urging USAID to stop funding
what he called the “opposition.”  I think USAID would refer to those as
anticorruption and pro-transparency groups.  Any response to that
request from Mexico?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have a response at this time for them — for
that request.

Q    Any — any response on whether — or is that the type of agreement
that could be part of that broader deal on immigration?  Or is there any
tim- —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m — I’m not going to get into —

Q    — timing at all?  Because I think people would ask: If Mexico made
an agreement to the U.S. — they’re asking for something on that front. 
Is that related?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m just not going to get into our discussions or
diplomatic conversations that we have with another country. 

Mexico, again, is a sovereign country that makes its own decision, and
we welcome — welcome their partnership in the region on this issue.

Go ahead.

Q    Karine, thanks so much.  President Zelenskyy of Ukraine told the
Washington Post that he had not had conversations with anyone at the
White House about those intelligence leaks.  Is that true?  And if so,
why not?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So I would have to go back to our team.  I don’t
actually have an answer to — to that question at this time. 

What I can say, and we have said many times, is that we have been in
discussion with our allies and partners about — about the situation.  I
would have to just check back to see when is the last time they had a
conversation with President Zelenskyy.  I just don’t have anything to
share at this time. 

Q    Given the critical moment that the war is in and the fact that
Ukraine is poised to potentially, sometime soon, launch its spring
counteroffensive and now this incident that we started talking about at
the top of the briefing with the drone, how concerned is the White House
that those leaks could strain the U.S. relationship with Ukraine at this
critical moment?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, we’ve been very clear.  I mean, we just — we’re
about to announce another — another critical security assistance to — to
Ukraine.  I think that shows our commitment. 

And we have been very clear that we will support Ukraine as they defend
their country against Russia’s invasion, and they will — and that will
continue.  That will not stop. 

And again, we’re announcing a security assistance.  I think that shows
how — how much we are committed to them fighting for their freedom,
fighting — the Ukrainian people fighting for their democracy. 

And so, we’ve been very clear in not just security assistance and
humanitarian aid and economic aid.  And that will continue from here. 

Q    Very quickly, has anyone at the — has the President or anyone at
the White House been briefed at this point on the damage assessment by
the leaks?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have anything to — to preview or lay out for
you at this time.

Q    And then, just on the debt limit, there are conversations that have
been reported about potentially invoking the 14th Amendment, which would
essentially allow the President to deal with this debt limit crisis
unilaterally.  Can you characterize how serious those discussions are? 
Have they gone all the way up to the level of the President?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, we’re not going to entertain scenarios where
Congress compromises the full credit — the full faith and credit of the
United States.

We’ve been very clear from here, the President has been very clear that
Congress must act.  This is their constitutional duty to act.  And we
must avoid catastrophic threats to our economy.  That needs to happen.

And what this will do — it will hurt the American people, cost more than
6 million jobs, and threaten Social Security, threatened Medi- —
Medicare and Medicaid payments. 

And so, we’re just not going to ta- — entertain scenarios.

Q    So does that mean you’ve taken invoking the 14th Amendment off the
table?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  What I’m saying is that I’m not going to, certainly,
negotiate from here or do anything like that.  We’re just not going to
entertain scenarios.  This is their constitutional duty. 

And I’ve said this before: Republicans did this three times.  They were
able to do this.  Democrats joined them three times in the last
administration. 

Q    Karine, a lot of people are looking at this situation and wondering
where the urgency is.  Back in 2011, it took the President and
congressional Republicans more than three months to reach a deal.  Why
does President Biden think he can reach one with Republicans in three
weeks?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We’ve been very clear. Right?  We’ve been very clear
of what this could mean for the American people.  This is their
constitutional duty.  When we’re talking about the spending, this is
something that Republicans and Donald Trump spent already.  This is —
we’re talking about spending that already occurred.

And in the last administration, Democrats did the right thing and came
together with Republicans, and did — and dealt with the debt ceiling
three times.  Three times.  It is their constitutional duty. 

It is what they are suppo- — they took — Congress took an oath.  Right? 
When — if you’re a congressional member, you take an oath to the
American people on what you are going to do to do the right thing,
essentially.  And this is part of their duty to get this done.

And so, the President has been very clear on this.  We’ve been, his
administration has been very clear on this.  He’s going to have a
meeting with them next — a week from today — with the four leaders. 
He’s going to again reiterate how important it is for them to move
forward.  And they need to put — you know, they need to deal with this
immediately, deal with the debt ceiling immediately.  This is something
that they can do today if they choose.

And we cannot — we cannot be a deadbeat nation.  We cannot.  This is
something that we have been able to do

in the past, 78 times since 1960 — 78 times since 1960. 

We have always paid our debt.  This country has always paid our debt. 
So what’s different now?  What is different now?  And that’s something
for congressional Republicans to answer.

Go ahead.

Q    Thank you, Karine.  I wanted to ask: The Wall Street Journal has a
report out about the Biden administration having renewed direct talks
with Syria to determine the fate of Austin Tice and that there have been
several meetings in the Middle East with Syrian government officials.

Given that you mentioned this at the top, in terms of World Press
Freedom Day, given that Austin Tice’s mother was at the dinner and
President Biden recognized her, I’m hoping you can speak to this report
a little bit, maybe shed some light.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, I appreciate — I appreciate the question.

Look, we cannot confirm any specific meetings past or present.  As you
know, in general, meetings and negotiations to secure the release of
wrongfully detained Americans, that is incredibly sensitive.

But I want to be clear here, as I was at the top.  The President himself
called on Syria to — to help us bring Austin home.  That is something
that the President has done.  But want to be really, really careful and
mindful and don’t want to confirm any specific conversation from the
past or in the present.

Again, these are sensitive, sensitive issues here that we need to
(inaudible).

Q    Is there a status update at all on that case?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I just don’t have — I don’t have anything to share on
the status of the case of Austin.

Q    Okay.  Second, we have a report on the DOJ nearing a decision on
whether to charge President Biden’s son Hunter with tax- and gun-related
violations.  I wonder if the White House has any comment on this case,
if it’s something the President has been following, or if he talks to
Hunter about this case at all.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I would have to refer you to the Department of
Justice.

Go ahead, Steven.

Q    Just a follow-up on a question about Austin Tice.  Debra Tice, his
mother, said this week that she believes after all these years it’s time
for rapprochement with Syria.  What’s the President’s stance on that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Say that one more time, that last part.  It’s time to?

Q    Rapprochement.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    Yeah.  What’s the President’s stance on that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, as I mentioned, the President himself called
on Syria to help us bring Austin home.  He has said that before.

Look, the President spoke to the pain and — that Austin’s family is
going through.  You heard from him directly during the — during the
White House Correspondents’ Dinner.  And our hearts go out to her.

We cannot even imagine — don’t even want to imagine what she’s going
through every day.  But the President is committed to bringing our —
Americans who are wrongfully detained and held hostage home.  And Austin
certainly is one of those Americans that we are doing everything that we
can to bring him home.

And so, that’s what the promise has — the President has promised, and
that’s what his administration is continuing to work on.

Q    One more press freedom question.  Advocates on Twitter today have
been talking a great deal about how the United States has engaged in
hypocrisy by talking about how Evan Gershkovich is held in Russia on
espionage charges but the United States has Espionage Act charges
pending against Julian Assange.  Can you respond to that criticism?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Say — what is the criticism?  
  
Q    Well, the criticism is that — the argument is that Julian Assange
is a journalist who engaged in the publication of government documents. 
The United States is accusing him of a crime under the Espionage Act,
and that, therefore, the United States is losing the moral high ground
when it comes to the question of whether a reporter engages in espionage
as a function of his work.  So can you respond to that?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, I’m not going to speak to Julian Assange and
that case from here. 

What I will say is — and you heard directly from the President when —
today in his statement on this — on this anniversary, but also during
the dinner, where he talked about the freedom of the press and how
important it is to protect journalists because it is part of our
democracy, right?  It is important to have that if we want to have a
democracy, right?  It is part of — part of — part of how we move
forward, the — telling the facts, being able to tell the truth, and be
able to — reporters to do that freely.   
  
And so the President is going to continue to speak to that.  The
President is going to continue to work to make sure that these Americans
who are, again, held hostage, who are wrongfully detained, come home.   
  
And that is something that we have seen under this administration.  He
was — he’s been able to do more than a dozen times.  And so you see this
President’s commitment in just this last two years.  
  
We’ve put forward additional tools to do that, to deal with this
matter.  And so that’s what I can speak to.  That’s what I can speak to
— the President’s commitment on this.   
  
I’m not going to weigh in on comments about Julian Assange.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks.  On the debt ceiling, has the President ruled out
supporting a short-term extension of the debt ceiling?  And is that — do
you think that’s something that he might talk to congressional leaders
about next week?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  What he’s going to talk to congressional leaders about
— and we’ve been very clear — he’s going to talk to about how it is
important for them to do their constitutional duty as it relates to the
debt limit and the debt ceiling.  
  
As it relates to the budget and appropriations, we have conversations
with Congress every year on how to move forward with that, how to
negotiate on that.  So that is a conversation, certainly, that we are
willing to have.   
  
But ag- — the debt ceiling, Congress must act.  This is something that
they need to do immediately.  They cannot hold the American economy
hostage.   
  
I’m not going to get into any — you know, any — you know, you’re asking
me about short-term.  Not — certainly not going to negotiate from here
or talk — speak to anything related to that.   
  
What I know is what the President has been very clear about, which is
making sure that he speaks directly to — to — to congressional members
next week, on Wednesday, and let them know, lay out what is at stake. 
And that’s what you’re — what — that’s what they’re going to hear from
him.  
  
Q    And just briefly on another subject.  Some data came out showing
that eighth grade test scores in U.S. History reached their lowest
levels on record.  You know, what can the administration do to help kids
catch up, who’ve lost so much during the pandemic?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, as you just said, kids have lost so much in the
pandemic.  This is why, when the President walked in, he made that — he
made a priority to open schools.  One of the things that was important
to do to make sure that our kids, who have lost so much, were able to go
back in person to school, if they choose, have the resources that they
needed, that — to really succeed and move forward in their education.   
  
And we saw that, unfortunately, the pandemic had a unfortunate effect on
our young — on our young people, on our kids.   
  
And so this is, again, something that the President was committed to. 
That’s why he fought so hard to get the American Rescue Plan done. 
That’s why — which allowed him to open up schools, open up small
businesses, to get shots in arms, so that we can deal with this
pandemic.   
  
Now we’re in a different place with COVID.  And that’s because of what
this President has done.  Is there more work to do?  Absolutely.  But
even before the pandemic, there was always more work to do as it relates
to education.  And so our Secretary of Education certainly is doing the
work to do that.   
  
But, yes, this is something that the President is concerned about, that
the Secretary of Education is concerned about, and we’re going to
continue to do the work to make sure our kids have the resources that
they need.   
  
And it goes back to what House Republicans put forward with 22 percent
cut on veterans, 22 percent cut on education.  That’s not how we move
forward.  That only hurts our kids.   
  
Go ahead, April.  And then I’ll come back.  
  
Q    Karine, two questions on deadlines.  May 11th, the deadline to
release or let go of the emergency declaration for COVID.  With that
said, what happens to those who are uninsured, when it comes to
vaccines, and the fear that since the — the declaration is lifted, that
people will not look at getting vaccines, thinking that COVID is over? 
Those two questions on that.   
  
There’s a fear, we understand, that that can happen once — because every
time — like, when you say there are no more — you don’t have to
necessarily wear masks, people thought it was over.  And when the
President said that we’re not in the pandemic, people thought it was
over.  And now with the declaration being lifted.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Mm-hmm.  Mm-hmm.  So, ahead of May 11th, the
administration will be sharing relevant additional information to
prepare federal government and also the American people as we move out
of the emergency phase of the pandemic.  
  
I was asked here yesterday about the COVID — COVID Response office and
what was going to happen.  And so one thing I do want to share with
folks: In the omnibus budget package of fiscal year 202- — 2023,
Congress called for the establishment of this office.  This is the
Office of Pandemic Preparedness and Response in the White House.  And we
are working to stand this team up — to stand up this team.  So we will
have that team available.   
  
But again, we’re going to have more information.   
  
I want to be very mindful — I hear your questions about vaccines.  I
want the American people to know that the COVID vaccines remain highly
effective to reduce the risk of serious illness, hospitalization, and
death.   
  
You know, this announcement that we’re making is — is possible because
of the historic progress that we have made over the last two years to
fight COVID and ensure that people have the information and tools they
need to keep themselves and their community safe. 

And so, it remains highly effective.  It is important for the American
people to know that.  We are in a different phase of COVID, as I just
mentioned, and that’s why we’re able to do the announcements that we’re
— we’re going to see once May 11th were — they’re going to lift,
essentially, once May 11th arrive.

Q    But what about the uninsured?  Is there —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  And we’ll — and — and that was part of my first
answer.  We’ll have more information to share —

Q    Is there a fund that you guys (inaudible)?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We’ll — we will have more information to share as we
get closer to May 11th.

Q    And last question: Looking back at the prior administration and how
deadlines were met and neither side blinked, particularly Republicans,
is there a fear — a real fear — that come June this will not be settled
and there could be indeed defaults, payments not made to various persons
of this — nations, to contractors, those who are on benefits, et
cetera?  Is there a real fear of that as Republicans in the past and
past administration didn’t blink on issues of finances when it came to
deadlines?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, that’s kind of — taking your last point first,
that’s kind of what I was saying.  In the last administration, Democrats
put — put aside their politics and they came together with Republicans
to make sure that we dealt with the debt ceiling.  That is something
that Democrats did. 

We have never, never defaulted in our history.  We’ve never done that. 
We’ve always paid our debt.  You heard the President say this just two
days ago: We are not a deadbeat nation. 

So, the President is going to be very clear.  We’re not going to let
House Republicans take our entire economy and millions of Americans’
jobs hostage.  We’re not going to allow that.  That’s what you’re going
to see from this President on May 9th, and we’re going to be very clear
about this.  This is their constitutional duty.

Of course, we have concerns.  Of course, we do.  That’s why we’ve been
saying this over and over again that Congress must act. 

We’re talking about more than 6 million jobs.  We’re talking about
Medicare — Medicare, Social Security.  We’re talking about our seniors,
our veterans.  And this should not be allowed.

And so the President’s going to make that very clear to — to — to the
leadership and, specifically, Speaker McCarthy when he’s here a week
from today.

Go ahead.

Q    Hi, thanks.  A couple questions.  On the debt ceiling,

assuming obviously that Speaker McCarthy doesn’t go into the meeting
next week and say, you know, “Congratulations, you’ve got a clean debt
ceiling increase,” what, realistically, is the President expecting to
get out of that meeting in terms of commitments, agreements, anything on
the debt ceiling and budget?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  He’s going to make it clear to Speaker McCarthy what’s
at stake.  He’s going to make that very clear.  They’re going to have a
conversation.  They had one earlier this year, and this is a
continuation of that conversation to make very clear that Congress must
act. 

Q    So nothing concrete in terms of —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m just — I’m not going to get into hypotheticals or
ahead of what — what is going to come out of the meeting.  What I can
tell you is what the President is looking to do.  And what the President
wants to talk about is how important it is for Congress to act, how
important it is for House Republicans to — to immediately deal with the
debt ceiling.

And that is the conversation that the — that we have already said is
going to occur.  It’s going to happen.  Certainly not going to get ahead
of — of what is going to be discussed or what’s going to — not discussed
but what’s going to come out of this discussion.

Q    And — and secondly, on the end of the public health emergency, is
the President planning to mark that in any way publicly?  And, in his
mind, does this effectively kind of mean the end of the COVID epidemic,
at least in the U.S.?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, what we’ve said: We’re in a different phase of
this pandemic.  The reason why we’re able to — to do the public health
emergency and make the announcement that we have made on the COVID vac-
— vaccine is because of the work that this administration has done. 
Period.  Because of this leadership that the President has — has been
able to do.  Period.

And that’s because, again, the American Rescue Plan, what he was able to
do on day one — how he wanted to make sure that Americans were
vaccinated, how he wanted to make sure that our schools were open, small
businesses were opened, that the economy got back on its feet.  And you
see that with the economy, currently: 12.6 million jobs created.  That’s
important. 

And it’s — and we’re going to continue that work.  You see that with his
environmental — excuse me, his economic policies that he’s put forward,
his economic legislation that have been passed with the help of
Democrats in Congress.

And so, look, we’re in a different phase.  And — and it’s because of the
work that this President has done.

Go ahead.

Q    So, should we expect the President to mark that in any way?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, you asked — I — I didn’t answer that question. 
Don’t — don’t have anything to — to lay out for you on any type of event
to mark that.

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  The Fed just raised interest rates again.  And you
mentioned that inflation has come down, but it’s still stuck at 5
percent.  Is the — is the President frustrated that inflation isn’t
coming down more quickly?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  The President — not going to comment on the — on the
Fed and its policy decision.  They’re independent.  We’re going to
respect that, give them the space to make their monetary policy
decisions, as they have done under this administration for the last two
years.  So I want to be very clear on that.

The President is working every day to — to make sure that we do what we
can and — and meet the American people where they are on lowering
costs.  That’s why he took some historic actions.  That’s why we were
able to do the Inflation Reduction Act.  That’s why we were able to
lower gas prices as Russia — as President Putin started this aggression
on Ukraine in this war.  And so we’ll continue to do that.

Let’s not forget what — the lowering costs for families, what we’ve
done.  We’ve lowered prescription drug costs, capping insulin at $35 a
month for seniors; allowing Medicare to negotiate; lower power — helping
lower energy bills.  That’s important.  That’s what we have been able to
do as an administration.   
  
Where MAGA Republicans, they’re doing the opposite.  They’re gutting
programs that lower co- — lowering cost; take — take our economy hostage
with the default.  That’s what they’re threatening.  Bring back failed
trickle-down economy.  That’s not what the President believes.  He
believes on building an economy from the bottom up and middle out.  
  
So we’re doing the work that — that — that we believe needs to be done. 
We always understand there’s more work to be done.  And — and, again,
I’ve laid this out earlier.  Inflation has fallen over the last nine
months.  That’s important.  We saw that in the CPI data. 

And — and so, do we — we need to do more work on this?  Yes.  But
inflation has also fallen 45 percent from its peak last year.  And that
is because of the work that this President has done because of his
economic policy plan.  
  
Q    What’s more important to the White House as this point: to keep
bringing down inflation or to prevent more economic slowdown?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t think it’s one or the other.  I think the
President understands that when he’s President, he has multiple things
that he needs to — he — he needs to deal with.   
  
We have said that we see the economy moving towards a transition of more
stable and steady growth.  We see that in — in the data.  We see that in
our jobs data that we saw just last — just — just last month.  And so
we’re seeing that.  We believe that that’s where we’re headed.   
  
But, of course, inflation is a — one of the most important things that
Americans care about is what — what we’re doing to lower costs.  And so
that’s one of the number one things that you see when it comes to the
President’s economic plan is making sure that he’s doing everything that
his administration can to do just that.  
  
Go ahead, Karen.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  Before we came out here, there was a shooting in
Atlanta.  Police are searching for a suspect.  There’s one dead and at
least four injured now.  Has the President been briefed on this?  What
can you tell us?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So I can confirm that the President and the Vice
President is aware of what’s — what occurred — the Atlanta shooting.  So
I can certainly confirm that.  
  
Q    Okay.  And to go back to the nation’s report card that you talked
about, just to underline some of the data: 13 percent of students, it
found, in eighth grade performed at or above the proficient level in
U.S. history.  In civics/government, it was only 22 percent.  
  
Beyond the pandemic closures that you talked about in your answer, just
how concerned is the White House about what young Americans are learning
about history and government right now?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, look, we’ve spoken to that before, how it is
important for — look, it is important for our kids to learn about the
history of this country — the — the amazing, good part of it and also
the part that we have to learn from.  We’ve said that before.   
  
So, yes, it is — it is a concern to us.  But again, we are — our kids’
education is a priority for this President, as you know, you heard him
say, because, you know, Dr. Biden, as well, is a teacher and educator. 
So that is — that is — so you have two — two people in the
administration that truly care about our kids and their education and
how they’re moving forward.    
  
And you have a Secretary of Education that’s very much focused on this
and has made our kids a priority in the past two years and will continue
to do that.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Two scheduling questions.  The President said in March that he was
going to visit East Palestine, Ohio, at some point to review the
recovery from the tai- — train derailment.  Any update on that?  
  
And tomorrow, is the President holding any events for a National Day of
Prayer?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Events for National Day of Prayer? 

Q    Yeah.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have in front of me what the President is
going to be doing tomorrow.  I’m trying to think what tomorrow is. 
We’ll certainly share that in the next couple of hours, of what his day
will look like tomorrow.  So you all will have that, as you normally
do.  So that is the normal here.   
  
So, as the President said, he will go to East Palestine.  I don’t have
any travel plans at this time to announce from here.   
  
Just to remind all — everyone, the President — at his direction, federal
teams have been on the ground in East Palestine to support response
efforts and hold <s>North</s> — <s>North</s> \[Norfolk\] Southern
accountable.   
  
They went door to door to check on families.  They were monitoring the
air.  They — they’re investigating the cause of derailment.  And the
Department of Justice is suing Norfolk Southern to seek damages and hold
them accountable.  And that has been our — our commitment to the
community of East Palestine and will continue to be. 

And when we have travel to share, certainly we’ll do that.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  Back in March, the President said, after the SVB
collapse, that the banking system is safe.  He made similar comments
after the latest bank failed earlier this week.  So I’m wondering why
the American people should trust those reassurances if it’s happening
repeatedly now?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, due to our actions, because of what the President
has done, because of the — of the direction of the President, Americans
can be confident that the deposits are safe and sound, and banks have
the access to resources to meet depositors’ demand.   
  
In fact, Treasury has seen deposit flows stabilize in regional banks. 
The banking system is more resilient than it was in 2008 when we saw the
financial crisis.  And thanks to the tough requirements the Obama-Biden
administration put in place, banks have more capital, depositors have
more protection, regulators have the tools.   
  
And so, we’ve taken decisive and forceful actions to restore the
confidence, to protect depositors, to keep financial systems safe, and
not protect investors but to not risk taxpayers’ dollars.  And that is
what you’ve seen from us from the last couple of weeks.   
  
Q    So, given that, how seriously is the White House considering
warnings that there could be other problems ahead in the banking
sector?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, what I can tell you is that the FDIC is going to
continue to monitor the situation.  And that’s what I — I can — I can
share.  We have taken forceful actions, decisive actions, to make sure
that taxpayer dollars are protected, to make sure that we give
confidence to the American people.  And that is something that you’re
going to continue to see.  
  
The President has asked Congress to take action.  So we’ve been very
clear.  And he has called on regulators to reverse a series of steps
taken during — during the prior administration.

And that is something that just didn’t start — that — the asking
regulators to take action, that didn’t start just a couple of weeks
ago.  That started through — or very early in his administration. 

Q    And then, thirdly and lastly, New York became the first state to
ban natural gas in new buildings, essentially, starting in 2026.  Does
the President support these types of policies at the state level?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, this is the first I’m hearing about that, so I
don’t have any comment for you on that at this time.

Go ahead.

Q    Thank you, Karine.  Is the — there’s been so much anticipation
ahead of next week’s meeting on the debt — debt ceiling.  The President
always says he likes to negotiate face to face.  Would he commit to
having as many meetings as it takes?  What we’re doing is talking about
this one day, which is a week away.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have any further — we just got to get through
the first meeting first —

Q    (Inaudible.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — which is a week from today, before we add on any
other meetings.  And that is going to be up to the President to decide.

And what I can say: He’s going to make it very clear to Speaker McCarthy
that they need to act.  They must act.  It is their constitutional duty
to deal with the debt limit. 

Q    Okay.  And here, a week ago, he announced his re-election
campaign.  And this is not a Hatch Act question.  Don’t worry.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Are you sure?  (Laughter.)

Q    Yeah, this is a scheduling — this is scheduling.  It’s a scheduling
question.

So, you know, that was — that was a week ago.  I’m just wondering, he’s
got his main job, which is being President.  He’s going to be, you know,
more and more doing his other job, which is trying to become President
again.

Is — will he travel a lot more than he’s been doing in the past at all —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I —

Q    — would you think?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We don’t have anything to share at this time on his
travel — whether political or official.  Just don’t — I’m not going to
share — anything to share at this time. 

Go ahead, Akayla.

Q    Yeah, another question on the Atlanta shooting.  I wonder if the
President is frustrated by the frequency at which we’re continuing to
see these mass shootings despite that gun safety law that was passed
last year.  And does he think the full effect of that law has really
started to show?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, a couple of things.  As we — as was mentioned, we
were coming out here, the news was breaking.  So I want to be very
clear, we’re monitoring the situa- — situation.  We’ll have more
information. 

It’s an ongoing, very fluid situation, as far as I understand; I don’t
know what else has occurred since we’ve been out here. 

I want to tell the public that we urge them to heed guidance from
officials and keep themselves safe.  Please keep yourself safe as this —
as the situation continues. 

So just want to be very clear about this, and don’t want to speak to
this directly, because we just don’t know exactly what is — what is
occur- — I mean, I know there’s a shooting, but we don’t have all of the
information.  It’s very fluid. 

So, look, is the President frustrated about what we’re seeing in our
communities, in our schools, and our churches — this epidemic that we’ve
seen — this gun violence epidemic?  And this is a — yes, of course, he’s
frustrated. 

This is a President that has taken historic actions.  The first two
years — executive actions signed, as you mentioned to me — a piece of
legislation that was bipartisan.  And it was the first legislation that
we had seen in 30 years to deal with this issue.

But we know that more needs to be done.  We know that Congress needs to
take more steps to deal with the violence that we’re seeing, again, in
our communities, our schools, our churches, which just should not be. 
It should not be. 

American people should be able to feel free to go to — to go to — into a
grocery store, to go a church.  Our kids should feel free and feel safe,
and our teachers, administrators should feel safe to go into a school. 

And right now, we’re seeing weapons of war on our streets, which should
not be — which should not be. 

And so, we’ve been very clear about Congress needing to act.  And I
think we’re all frustrated.  I think there’s parents out there who are
frustrated.  There are Americans out there who are frustrated and who
want to see an assault weapons ban, which reduced mass shootings when —
when — something that the President led on in 1994. 

We want to see commonsense gun law reform, whether it’s requiring
background checks on all gun sales, requiring safe storage of guns,
eliminating immunity for gun manufacturers who knowingly put weapons of
war, again, on our streets.  These are the things that we want to see
Congress act on.  And so, we’re going to continue to call on them to do
so. 

Go ahead.

Q    Julie Su, the nominee — current Labor Secretary, has yet to be
confirmed by the Senate and could face some roadblocks ahead.  What is
the administration’s level of commitment to Su as the nominee if the
votes aren’t there?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, we are committed to Julie Su’s confirmation
process.  She’s met with dozens of senators on both sides of the aisle,
and we’re working very hard every day for every vote.  That is certainly
something that she’s doing, certainly something that we’re doing on her
behalf.  And we’re feeling confident about her process and looking
forward to the floor consideration in the near future. 

I would just remind you all, as I’ve said before from here: When she was
confirmed for deputy secretary, she got — she got all Democrats in the
Senate.  And so, we’re going to continue. 

As I said, she’s met with both — senators from both sides of the aisle,
and we certainly feel — are feeling confidence in this process. 

AIDE:  We have five minutes left. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, okay. 

Let me call some more people in the back.  Go ahead, sir.

Q    Thank you, Karine.  Question on the Press Freedom Day.  So on the
anniversary — at the same time, we see China just announced (inaudible)
its counterespionage law, which worries a lot of journalists, also
(inaudible) investors. 

Currently, we have at least 127 journalist detained in China, including
three foreign reporters detained on espionage charge.  What is the
administration take on China suppressing even more freedom of speech? 
Is the press freedom part of the conversation between U.S. and China? 

Thank you. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, what I can say and — is that we are doing
everything that we can through our diplomacy and foreign assistance to
support journalists; to help them keep them safe, hold — hold
accountable the autocrats and their enablers who continue to repress a
free, independent media.  And that’s what you can count on from this
administration.  That’s what the President made very clear in his
statement today but also his remarks that you heard directly from the
President just this past Satur- — Saturday.  And that’s why we’re
lifting up this day, this 30th — 30th World Press Freedom Day. 

And so, we are committed.  We have put forth tools to deal with ways to
continue to make sure that we’re protecting wrongfully detained
Americans who are held hostage.  You heard us announce just — some tools
just last week.  And we’ll continue to do everything that we can.

Again, I said this earlier: This is an administration that has brought
home more than a dozen wrongfully detained Americans held hostage in his
first two — two years of this administration.  So that shows our
commitment.  And we’ll continue to work towards that.

Okay.  Go ahead, Naomi.

Q    Thank you.  So, back to interest rates.  The Fed also signaled that
it could be the last increase after more than a year of hikes.  Should
we read this as potentially there being a stronger likelihood of a
recession in the coming months?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m not going to get into the Fed’s policies, monetary
policies, from here.  They are an independent agency.  We are giving
them the space to make decision on monetary policies.  We are not going
to interfere in their policies.  So, I’m not just — I’m not going to get
into a hypothetical from here.

Okay.  Sir, in the back.  Go ahead.

Q    Karine, when it comes to immigration, obviously the administration
wants immigration reform, but why hasn’t the President brought in
congressional leaders and tried to show leadership and come up with some
kind of compromise that could pass?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We’ve shown leadership.  We’ve shown leadership on day
one — on day one — by putting forth a piece of legislation to deal with
comprehensive immigration reform. 

That’s the leadership that this President showed on day one to show his
commitment to — to making sure we have a safe and orderly and humane way
to deal with immigration, to fix a — to fix a system that is certainly
broken and has been broken for some time.

So that is the President’s leadership.  We’re using the tools that we
have because Congress doesn’t want to help.  We’ve — we’ve called out
Congress, and we’ve spoken to Congress many times.  Our — our —
certainly our Office of Leg Affairs and other departments here in the
White House certainly have had those conversations over the last two
years.  And the President has been very vocal.

But we have to — have to use the tools that we have in front of us to
deal with this issue.  And — and we’ve continued to call on Congress to
act — the President has, members of his administration has, I have —
numerous times.

And now we’re going to do what we can from here to make sure we do this
in a way that’s safe, in a way that’s orderly, in a way that’s humane.

Q    And what report card would you give the Vice President for her
handling of the root causes of migration in Central America?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So I’ve learned from my predecessor to never fall into
that trap — (laughter) — of giving — giving — giving grades.

What we can say from here is that the President appreciates and — and
has been very impressed by her — by her partnership in this
administration.  He sees her as a partner.  And they will continue to —
to work in that way in the next — as we move forward, to be very careful
here.

Trying to call on some people I haven’t called on in a while.  Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  I was just curious: The meeting next week with
congressional leaders, will that just be for the President and four
lawmakers in the room, or will there be staff involved?  And what can
you say about — like, has staff been reaching out sort of behind the
scenes ahead of this meeting to prepare?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So I’m not going to get into the manifest of who’s
going to be in the meeting next week.  I will certainly — I will
certainly — I think I said this, and I think we’ve — we’ve gotten some
confirmation of attendance, but certainly leave it to the — to the
offices of the specific principal attendance.  But certainly not going
to get into a manifest of who’s going to be in the room at this time. 
We still have a couple of days to go before the meeting happens.

I think I’m being pulled.  Is that it?  All right.  Thanks, everybody. 
See you tomorrow.

2:31 P.M. EDT
