---
date: '2023-05-28'
published_time: 2023-05-28 22:33:13-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2023/05/28/background-press-call-on-the-bipartisan-budget-agreement/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Background Press Call on the Bipartisan Budget\_Agreement"
---
 
6:51 P.M. EDT  
  
MODERATOR:  Good evening, everyone.  And thank you for joining our
background call at a bit of a short notice.  As you saw, the President
spoke earlier this evening, just a few minutes ago, about the bipartisan
budget agreement he has reached with Speaker McCarthy.   
  
Our call is on background as “White House officials.”  It will be
embargoed until the end of the call.  I will also be sending out a
document to those who have RSVP’d for the call.  Those who RSVP’d
earlier should have already received it.  For others, I will send it
shortly after the call concludes.  
  
The document is sourced as from a “White House source.”  And the call
is, again, from “White House officials.”   
  
Joining us on the call, we have \[White House official\].  And we also
have \[White House official\].  That is for your awareness and not for
reporting.   
  
I will now turn it over to \[White House official\] and then \[White
House official\] to give some brief remarks.  And we will take your
questions.  
  
WHITE HOUSE OFFICIAL:  Thanks, \[moderator\].  And thanks, everybody,
for hopping on at short notice.  I can just do some quick context
setting and then talk through appropriations and the safety net
components of the deal.  And then I’ll hand it over to \[White House
official\] to talk through climate and permitting issues.   
  
So just to say at the very top: You know, the deal that the President is
announcing today we think is a good one.  It protects the historic
economic gains we’ve made, really allowing one of the strongest
recoveries on record to continue by taking the threat of default off the
table into 2025.  It protects a set of historic legislative
accomplishments that this President has had over the last two and a half
years, from the infrastructure law to the CHIPS and Science Act, the key
climate and prescription drug components of the Inflation Reduction Act,
and it beats back a set of extreme demands that were part of the Limit,
Save, and Grow Act.   
  
So, you know, the President has said for months that it’s Congress’s
obligation to prevent default.  But at the same time, he’s also been
clear that he’d welcome a separate negotiation on the budget with a
Republican leadership.  You know, that’s just like we do as part of the
appropriations process every year, and it’s also what happened in 2015,
2018, and the 2019 budget deals that also carried a debt limit
increase.   
  
So let me start by walking through three quick points on
appropriations.   
  
You know, the first main point to make here is that this is a two-year
appropriations agreement.  It keeps non-defense spending roughly flat
with the 2023 levels in 2024, when you factor in agreed-upon
appropriations adjustments.  In 2025, it increases the non-defense
spending levels and the defense spending levels by 1 percent.   
  
Some of the adjustments that I referenced include repurposing on
obligated emergency COVID relief, as well as repurposing some of the
mandatory IRS funding.  There are other adjustments agreed to as
well.   
  
And beyond 2025, there are no budget caps, only non-enforceable
appropriations targets that were referenced in the legislation.   
  
The second point is: You know, we really do, I think, in this deal,
protect non-defense spending that helps support just a range of key
programs that the American people count on, from scientific research, to
Meals on Wheels, to education, and so many others.   
  
This is a — much different from the 22 percent cut to non-defense
discretionary priorities and 10 years of caps that was originally laid
out by House Republicans.  In fact, this outcome is roughly what would
have happened to non-defense spending if we hadn’t had a budget
agreement this year and instead had enacted a full-year continuing
resolution.   
  
And I’ll say that, you know, the agreed-upon levels really do reflect
what the administration had successfully negotiated at the end of last
calendar year, with two years already of bipartisan appropriations
increases that have taken non-defense spending up over this two-year
period by about 16 percent.   
  
The last point I’ll make on appropriations is that, you know,
critically, the deal fully funds veterans medical care, including the
mandatory funding from the PACT Act’s Toxic Exposure Fund at the levels
that were in the President’s 2024 budget.  And it also includes funding
for the Defense Department at the President’s budget level as well.   
  
So let me turn now to talk a little bit about how the agreement treats
safety net programs.   
  
Here, the context setting is, as we’ve said repeatedly over the last
several weeks, you know, it’s important to look at what was in the
Limit, Save, Grow Act on these issues.  It had Medicaid cuts that would
have caused millions of people to lose healthcare.  SNAP cuts would have
caused hundreds of thousands of people to lose food assistance.  And the
TANF reforms in that bill would have put critical support for nearly a
million vulnerable children at risk.   
  
The President and the President’s negotiating team fought hard to ensure
that no one lose healthcare in this bill and that poverty wouldn’t
increase as part of this agreement.   
  
So with those principles in mind, let me just walk through each of those
three programs in turn.  
  
The first, Medicaid: There were no changes to Medicaid in this bill.   
  
The second, on SNAP: Limit, Save, Grow proposed to expand the SNAP work
requirements to people age 50 to 55; currently, they go from 18 to 49. 
And then during the negotiations, Republican negotiators demanded
another SNAP cut that would have restricted state flexibility to waive
SNAP work requirements in areas with insufficient jobs.   
  
The final agreement makes no changes to state waivers.  It does,
however, include the Republican proposal to phase in SNAP work
requirements to people up to age 54.  But at the President’s insistence,
it also includes changes that will actually reduce the number of
vulnerable people who are subject to SNAP work requirements.  And these
exemptions apply to all ages 18 to 54.  So these exemptions are for
people who are homeless and veterans, as well as foster youth.   
  
And I’ll point out that Secretary Fudge noted today that the definition
of homeless in the existing SNAP statute is broad.  That includes
housing instability.   
  
So, you know, if you factor in both the “50 to 54” change, but also the
changes for veterans, for the homeless, and for foster youth, we expect
that the number of people subject to SNAP work requirements will stay
roughly the same under this agreement.  And that’s even the case when
the age change is fully phased in.   
  
I’ll also say that at the President’s insistence, the SNAP changes in
this bill are temporary, sunsetting in 2030, which will give Congress an
opportunity to reevaluate them.   
  
Finally, let me just say on TANF: The Limit, Save, Grow Act would have
put assistance for nearly a million of the nation’s most vulnerable
children at risk by gutting flexibilities that really allows states to
use their TANF resources to direct cash assistance to the families of
the most vulnerable children.   
  
The President directed his team to fight hard on this issue as well,
really to make sure that vulnerable children who are receiving support
through TANF don’t lose access to that support.  And while we made a set
of reforms to TANF in the final agreement, we think that those reforms
are consistent with the President’s principles and will, in fact, you
know, maintain states’ abilities to continue to support vulnerable
children and vulnerable families.   
  
So I’ll pause there and turn it over to \[White House official\] to walk
through the climate and permitting issues.  
  
WHITE HOUSE OFFICIAL:  Thanks, \[White House official\].  Look, House
Republicans came to the negotiating table with a proposal attached to a
vote on paying our country’s bills that represented really a broadside
aimed at efforts to protect our environment and aimed at efforts to
tackle the climate crisis.   
  
The House Republicans’ proposal sought changes in the law that would
have allowed mining companies to store hazardous waste near communities
without permits, polluting industries to skirt review under the Clean
Air Act, and oil refineries to expose workers and communities to toxic
chemicals.  None of that is in this agreement.   
  
House Republicans sought to roll back the President’s historic climate
law, the Inflation Reduction Act, by taking particular aim at the tens
of billions of dollars for clean energy in disadvantaged communities,
rebates to retrofit homes and save money for low-income Americans, and
cleanup efforts related to harmful pollutants from oil and gas that
disproportionately impact fence-line communities.  None of that is in
this agreement.  
  
This agreement — the direct result of President Biden’s leadership and
commitment to environmental protection, to bold climate action — holds
firm against those efforts for rollback and repeal.   
  
The President’s Inflation Reduction Act, the biggest climate bill in
history anywhere ever, has been protected.   
  
And we have protected the substantive environmental safeguards in the
Clean Water Act, in the Clean Air Act, in the Toxic Substances Control
Act, and the substantive provisions of the National Environmental Policy
Act, NEPA, that sustain our people and our planet.   
  
At the same time, in bipartisan fashion and through the work of
hard-earned compromise, in the context of this broader negotiation, we
secured measures that will harness government efficiencies to accelerate
construction projects across the country.  Specifically, the agreement
includes measures aimed at boosting the coordination, predictability,
and certainty associated with federal agency decision-making.  The
agreement includes provisions to better coordinate NEPA reviews to
designate a single lead agency for a single project, charged with
developing a single environmental review document — not multiple ones —
according to a clear and public timeline.   
  
And the agreement, importantly, makes these changes without curtailing
the substantive scope of the NEPA statute.  It doesn’t cut down the
statute of limitations, as was proposed in H.R. 1, or impose barriers to
standing, or taking away injunctive relief or other judicial
remedies.   
  
These changes will help us build more more quickly and responsibly;
build more solar, build more wind, EV chargers, transmission, and the
other infrastructure we need to secure a clean energy economy.  There’s
a tailwind here for clean energy, and it’s because of the President’s
leadership and the Inflation Reduction Act and the infrastructure law
we’re going to be better able to harness that tailwind because of these
improvements to the way the government operates.  That’s a good thing,
and that’s what’s in the agreement.  
  
MODERATOR:  Thank you very much, \[White House officials\].  I will now
turn it over to Zeke Miller for our first question.  
  
Q    Thanks for the call.  What do you estimate to be the net deficit
reduction from this agreement?   
  
And then, on the IRS cuts in particular, the document that \[moderator\]
has passed out says $10 billion in FY24, $10 billion from FY25.  But
isn’t that sort of a complete rollback of the funding that came in from
IRA for those two fiscal years?  I was hoping to get a little bit more
clarity there.  
  
WHITE HOUSE OFFICIAL:  I’ll start on the second.   
  
So, no, the $80 billion appropriation in the Inflation Reduction Act was
a 10-year appropriation.  So it’s not as if the IRS was appropriated $10
billion for one year, $10 billion for the next, et cetera.  So the CBO
then estimated how much it thought the IRS would spend over that 10-year
period.  But it — that is, you know, 10-year money, and so the IRS will
continue to be able to spend that, you know, remaining 60, and spend
that over the course of the next several years.  
  
You know, on the question of what that means going forward, you know, it
might be the case that, you know, in six, seven, eight years, there
would be a need to come back and ask for more IRS funding, just as there
was going to be a need to do that after the 10-year window anyway.  So
we don’t think it’ll fundamentally change what the IRS does over the
course of the next few years.   
  
And on the second, we don’t have a score yet.  The discretionary savings
are likely to be, you know, in the $1 trillion or higher range, but
we’ll have to wait for the CBO score.  
  
MODERATOR:  Thanks, \[White House official\].  And thanks, Zeke.   
  
Now I’ll turn over to Jim Tankersley with the New York Times.  
  
Q    Hi all.  Thanks for this.  Two questions.  One, I don’t see
anything in here about the sort of CR enforcement mechanism.  Can you
tell us any more detail about sort of what happens under this agreement
if Congress is unable to pass spending bills by the end of the year?  
  
And second off, can you be really specific about the IRS money?  Is this
coming out of enforcement?  Is this coming out of modernization?  Like,
what is going to — you can say nothing is going to change, but it’s $20
billion over two years.  What will not be done that would have been done
with this money?  
  
WHITE HOUSE OFFICIAL:  So, on the first question, the agreement has a
backstop that basically provides incentives for appropriators to pass
bills.  And so, specifically, what it is is that, at the end of the
calendar year, if the 12 bills are not passed, then the non-defense and
defense levels go to just slightly below the 2023 level.  
  
And so, you know, that would be — that’s an important incentive to pass
bills because, you know, there are a bunch of folks in Congress who
won’t want to see defense go below that 2023 level — excuse me, below
the 2023 level.   
  
And then, on the second, look, you know, I think part of — part of what
you’ll see is that — on the IRS — is that, you know, the IRS
commissioner has said, and we’ve noted, that, you know, because of the
structure of the IRA — where the IRS funding was 10-year funding, and
it’s not as if you’re taking 2024 or 2025 money from the IRS — we don’t
believe in the near term that anything will need to change.  Obviously,
that’s something that will play out over the next year or two.   
  
And, obviously, you know, I think it’s worth noting that the enforcement
— every enforcement dollar that we invest in the IRS, obviously, there’s
a real return there to the taxpayer, and enabling that agency to crack
down on tax evasion and to crack down on folks at the top of the income
distribution, who are not paying what they’re legally supposed to
pay.   
  
So this is a — this is a big priority for the President.  We think the
IRS will continue to be able to effectuate its plans in the near term,
and then there may be a need to come back to Congress and ask for
additional funding.  
  
MODERATOR:  Thanks again.  I’ll now turn it over to Emma Dumain at
E&E.  
  
Q    Hi, thanks so much for taking this question.  I’m hoping that you
could shed some light more on the energy provisions in the bill.  We
understand there’s language in this deal that would apply all projects
to the FAST-41 federal permitting process, as codified in the Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law.  We’re hoping you could walk us through what effect
those changes would have on projects.   
  
And also, if you could walk us through what you have in the bill dealing
with transmission.  We understand there might be some sort of study, but
not actual policy, to better facilitate the buildup of renewables.  And
hoping we could get some details there.  Thank you.  
  
WHITE HOUSE OFFICIAL:  Thanks, Emma.  First of all, the FAST-41 Act —
and for, I think, 90 percent of the folks on this call probably don’t
know what that is, so let me just do a second on that — is a set of
provisions that were made permanent in the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law
that accelerate the development of environmental reviews and
environmental decision-making associated with a narrow set of
high-priority, large infrastructure projects.   
  
This agreement represents a change to how environmental reviews are
developed through better coordination, better efficiency, across the
board, regardless of the size of the project or the industry from which
it comes.  So in that sense, it’s different.   
  
The second thing that’s different here is the set of changes.  FAST Act
involves a very particular set of definitions, as well as dashboarding
responsibilities.  The changes here, while there is some overlap in the
elements that are proposed, like a single lead agency and a single
document, are distinct from both the — sort of, call it the
“infrastructure” of the government that implements this, and so on.   
  
So I really — maybe to the core premise here of whether this is
importing or transferring the FAST Act from, you know, a few projects to
others is probably not the right way to think about it.  FAST Act is a
thing; this is a different thing.  The overlap being they both focus on
efficiency associated with project development.   
  
But, for example, you know, FAST Act includes timelines around records
of decision here.  We’re talking about the development of environmental
review.  So those are — I don’t want to get way in the weeds on it, but
they’re pretty distinct.  And so, I wouldn’t think of them as one
necessarily flowing into the other.   
  
One of the very relevant things that is in here is deadlines around the
development of an environmental review.  So for less environmentally
complex projects, the deadline here is a year.  And for more
environmentally complex projects, the deadline here is two years for the
agency to study and then put together a statement of how the project
impacts the environment.   
  
That’s going to be really helpful in the buildout of transmission
lines.  Just to give you a few examples: The TransWest Express — which
is going to bring three gigawatts of transmission capacity, wind energy
into the West — took six years to go through that environmental review
process.  Energy Gateway South, another transmission project: 1,500
megawatts took five and a half years.  Southline Transmission, four
years.   
  
And you see that pattern play out in solar projects that have taken five
years or six years to get through environmental review.  Some of these
offshore wind projects that actually are going to come online this
summer have taken around three years to get through the process.   
  
So this is going to be an accelerant in the buildout of those projects. 
That’s thing number one.   
  
Thing number two is: We’re making it easier for complementary parts of
clean energy — for example, electric charger stations being installed —
to have more efficient reviews.  So if one agency develops a categorical
exclusion for EV chargers, another agency can now borrow it.  That’s
actually an element that was included in a recent bill in the Senate by
two Democratic sponsors, Senator Carper and Senator Schatz, that’s
borrowed in here and included in the agreement.   
  
Finally, there is — there are elements in here that motivate additional
focus by the federal government to study the ways in which building out
transmission not only accelerates us on clean energy, but also
accelerates the hardening and resilience and reliability of our grid. 
That’s why the President has made transmission such a priority — not
because it only is the vehicle to a cleaner energy future, but also
because it’s the vehicle to a more affordable and more reliable and
resilient energy future.  This agreement recognizes the importance of
that and directs the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission to get after
that incredible opportunity.  
  
MODERATOR:  Thank you so much.  Now we’ll turn it over to Trevor
Hunnicutt of Reuters.  
  
Q    Thanks for taking the question.  My question is just about the
administrative PAYGO aspect of this.  You know, understand that it
provides waiver authority for the OMB director and protections against
judicial review.  Just curious how exactly that would work.  Does that
mean that the OMB director can just, you know, kind of broadly claim
that an exception or a waiver is needed if that — Congress and courts
can’t look at that and overrule that?  How would that work?  Thanks.   
  
WHITE HOUSE OFFICIAL:  I can start.  Yes, that’s what it — that’s what
it means.  You know, it is a very broad waiver authority.  And you’ll be
able to see that in the legislative text.   
  
And the only other thing I would add: In addition to that waiver
authority, in addition to that protection to judicial review, that
provision actually sunsets after two years.  So it’s — you know, this
will be a waiver authority that the Biden administration’s OMB director
will have for the next two years, and then that provision will sunset.  
  
MODERATOR:  All right, for our next question I’m going to go to Jeff
Stein.   
  
Q    Hey, guys.  Thanks again for doing this.  I wanted to drill down on
something you guys said earlier about the NDD.  Obviously, Republicans
have been saying that there’s a substantial cut here, and then the White
House has been saying that it’s really something like a freeze.  And I
wanted to sort of be specific here.  Like, are you maintaining that the
NDD level will be flat?  And if it’s not, is it 1 percent, 2 percent? 
And sort of what do you say to Democratic critics who say, by ‘25, with
only a 1 percent growth, that that will be a pretty big, you know, cut
in real terms, but, you know, factoring in two years of inflation?  So
that’s the two-part question.  Thank you.  
  
WHITE HOUSE OFFICIAL:  Sure.  So, on the first part of your question,
it’s flat.  It’s a difference of about $1 billion.  So the non-defense,
outside of veterans, is at 637 versus 638 in 2023.  
  
On your point about real versus nominal and only 1 percent increase in
2025, I’d say, you know, it does follow a period where we have a — we’ve
had a real increase of around 4 or 5 percent over the last two years. 
And, you know, this reflects the fact that we are in a divided
government where we were obviously going to fight it — fight hard for
higher non-defense funding for a range of priorities that are critical
to the President’s economic and broad agenda.  We will continue to do
that.   
  
But, you know, in a divided government, we’re not going to get the kinds
of NDD increases that we would hope to get.  And so, this will be — this
will continue to be a priority for us going forward — you know, going
into the rest of the term and hopefully in the President’s second
term.  
  
MODERATOR:  Thanks again.  I’ll turn it over to Elizabeth Schulze with
ABC.  
  
Q    Thanks so much.  I know that we are talking about the budget
agreement, but I was just wondering if you could shed any more light on
the exact timing.  We’re talking about the debt limit extension.  Is
this a suspension until January 1st, 2025?  Is it a dollar amount?  Can
you just explain that a little bit to us,  
if possible?  
  
WHITE HOUSE OFFICIAL:  Sure.  It’s a suspension through January 1st,
2025.  And then, as you all know, the Secretary of the Treasury can then
employ extraordinary measures.   
  
So this would get — this gets us, you know, into 2025.  And we think
that, you know, taking the threat of default off the table into 2025 is,
you know, a significant upside for the economy, a significant
accomplishment.   
  
You know, I think we’ve had this strong economic recovery — you know,
one of the lowest unemployment — the lowest unemployment rate in 50
years.  This really — I think when you talk to business leaders, when
you talk to economists, others, this really was, I think, one of the
biggest threats to the economic outlook.  And, you know, the President
is quite pleased that if Congress passes this legislation, we will have
removed that threat for the next two or so years.  
  
MODERATOR:  I’ll now turn it over for our last question to Jennifer
Haberkorn of Politico.  
  
Q    Hi.  Would you explain the TANF changes included in this bill?  And
do you have an estimate as to how many people those policies and the new
SNAP policies would impact?  Thank you.  
  
WHITE HOUSE OFFICIA:  So let me just say, you know, as I mentioned on
SNAP, you know, we’ll have to wait to get additional estimates, but —
from CBO and others.  But our view and our estimate is that when you
factor in the range of policies, both the age policy and the reduction
in work requirements for veterans and the homeless and foster youth,
that roughly the same amount of people will be covered by work
requirements before and after this deal.   
  
On TANF, obviously — so, TANF is more complicated.  So if — just allow
me to do a second of background here.   
  
So, under current law, states have to meet work participation rates for
TANF cash assistance recipients.  The designated rate in the statute is
50 percent of TANF cash assistance recipients must be working.  But
states are able to reduce that 50 percent based on how much a state’s
caseload has fallen since 2005.  TANF caseloads have, in fact, fallen
significantly since 2005.  And so, many states are — many states have a
lower work participation rate than 50 percent required, and that really
allows states the flexibility to serve, you know, what really is a
population of vulnerable, low-income children, even if their parents or
their parent isn’t working.   
  
So the McCarthy bill — the Limit, Save, Grow Act — would have amended
the base year, made that 2022 instead of 2005.  And so what that would
have done is made the work participation rate in every state just about
50 percent.   
  
According to a range of experts, not just our administration but
outside, you know, those changes would have really led many, many states
to divert their TANF dollars away from cash assistance and into other
purposes, because it just would have been too difficult to meet that new
standard.   
  
And so what the deal that the President announced today does is instead
of amending the base year to 2015, it — to 2005, excuse me — it amends
the base year to 2015.  It also gives states additional time, two years,
to implement this policy and continues to allow states to do things like
spending additional TANF dollars and in exchange being able to get a
lower work participation rate because of that.   
  
And so, together, the range of changes, we think, would have much, much
less severe consequences than the McCarthy bill, and, you know, we
really believe will allow states to maintain providing support to
vulnerable children because these flexibilities will be left in place.  
  
MODERATOR:  Thank you so much, \[White House official\].  And I know
there are a few people with their hands up.  If you have questions, you
should feel free to email me, and I will sort that out.   
  
Just a quick few policy — or housekeeping items.  This call is, of
course, on background as “White House officials.”  The PDF that we sent
can be attributed to from a “White House source.”  We will be sending
out a transcript of this call as soon as it is available.  And the
call’s embargo lifts now.  
  
Thank you, everyone.  Have an enjoyable evening.  And enjoy
“Succession.”  
  
7:21 P.M. EDT
