---
category: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-07-30'
modified_time: 2021-07-30 18:29:51-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/07/30/remarks-by-president-biden-at-meeting-with-cuban-american-leaders/
published_time: 2021-07-30 18:29:50-04:00
title: Remarks by President Biden at Meeting with Cuban American Leaders
---
 
4:57 P.M. EDT      
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Well, I’m honored to welcome members of the Cuban
American community, and Senator Menendez, <s>Senator</s> \[Congressman\]
Meeks to discuss how the United States is going to continue to stand
with the Cuban people, who have suffered for decades and decades under a
failed communist regime.  
  
Earlier this month, Cubans took to the street in a historic
demonstration of the will of the people of Cuba.  The regime responded
with violence and repression, mass detentions, sham trials, and people
disappearing who — who have spoken out.  Just disappearing.  Family
members, I’m told, are not able — have no idea where their family
members are back in Cuba.  And — in a brazen violation of the rights of
the Cuban people.   
  
The Cuban Americans are hurting.  They’re hurting because their loved
ones are suffering.  And it’s, quite frankly, intolerable.  
  
So, I want the Cuban Americans to know that we — all around this table
and myself included — see your pain, we hear your voices, and we hear
the cries of freedom coming from the island.  
  
The United States is taking concerted action to bolster the cause of the
Cuban people.  We’ve brought to bear the strength of our diplomacy,
rallying nations to speak out and increase pressure on the regime.  And
we’re holding the regime accountable.  
  
Last week, we sanctioned the head of Cuban armed forces and the
government — a government entity called the “Black Berets” for their
involvement in suppressing protesters.  
  
And, today, we are adding sanctions against the Revolutionary National
Police, as well as individual sanctions against the chief and deputy
chief — the chief and deputy chief.   
  
And we’re going to continue to add sanctions on individuals that carry
out — that carry out the regime’s abuses.  
  
At the same time, we’re increasing direct support for the Cuban people
by pursuing every option available to provide Internet access to help
the Cuban bypass — the Cuban people bypass the censorship that’s being
mandatorily imposed.  
  
You always know something is not going well when the — a country will
not allow — will not allow their people to be engaged in — be on the
Internet and being able to make their case known around the world.    
  
And we’re expanding our assistance to political prisoners and
dissidents.  
  
And the direct State — and I’ve directed the State Department and the
Treasury Department to provide me, within one month, recommendations of
how to maximize the flow of remittances to the Cuban people, without the
Cuban military taking their cut.  
  
And we’re working to increase U.S. staffing at our embassy while
prioritizing the safety of our personnel.  
  
So, we’ve got a lot to discuss with this group.  So, we got — and
mostly, I’m here to listen.  I want to know what their ideas are.  And
you are some of the best experts on the issue.   
  
The first person to bring this to my attention and to make sure that we
were on top of this was Senator Menendez.  And we think that — you know,
the American — the Cuban American people are actually the best
ambassadors for the Cuban people.  
  
And so, my administration is going to make sure that their voices are
included and uplifted at every step of the way.  And we’re gong to get
down to business.   
  
So, thank you all for bothering to come in.  I appreciate it.   
  
Q    Will there be more sanctions coming up, Mr. President?  Or is that
it, today?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  I beg your pardon?  
  
Q    I said: Will there be more sanctions against Cuba coming up or are
you stopping with what you did today?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  We are — there will be more, unless there’s some drastic
change in Cuba, which I don’t anticipate.  
  
Thank you.  
  
5:01 P.M. EDT
