---
tags: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-07-13'
modified_time: 2021-07-13 17:52:52-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/07/13/remarks-by-president-biden-on-protecting-the-sacred-constitutional-right-to-vote/
published_time: 2021-07-13 17:52:51-04:00
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden on Protecting the Sacred, Constitutional Right\
  \ to\_Vote"
---
 
National Constitution Center  
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

2:46 P.M. EDT

THE PRESIDENT:   Thank you.  (Applause.)  I see an awful lot of good
friends out there.  Please have a seat if you have one. 

I — let me begin by saying I used to be important.  (Laughter.)  I used
to be the chairman of the board of this place.  And Jeffrey Rosen
allowed me to do that for a while.

But thank you all for being here.  I truly appreciate it.  Governor,
it’s above and beyond the call.  Mr. Mayor, I’d compli- — I thought you
were a great mayor — still think you are — but your judgment in fiancées
is even stronger.  And — but — but all of you.  And a good friend, Bobby
Brady.  I see so many friends out.  Al Sharpton — Al, how are you, pal? 
It’s great to see you.  (Applause.)

And I’m — I’m going to get in trouble here because I’m going to
recognize my congresswoman from the state of Delaware, Lisa Blunt
Rochester — (applause) — and her sister who used to run my office. 
Stand up.  (Applause.)

Well, folks, good afternoon.  There’s a serious subject I’d like to talk
about today.  I’m here in Philadelphia at the National Constitution
Center — the city and the place where the story of “We the People” — “We
the People” began.

It’s a story that’s neither simple nor straightforward.  That’s because
the story is the sum of our parts, and all those parts are fundamentally
human.  And being human is to be imperfect, driven by appetite and
ambition as much as by goodness and grace.

But some things in America should be simple and straightforward.

Perhaps the most important of those things — the most fundamental of
those things — is the right to vote.  The right to vote freely. 
(Applause)  The right to vote freely, the right  — the right to vote
fairly, the right to have your vote counted.  The democratic threshold
is liberty.  With it, anything is possible.  Without it, nothing —
nothing. 

And for our democracy and the work — and to deliver our work and \[for\]
our people, it’s up to all of us to protect that right.  This is a test
of our time and what I’m here to talk about today.

Just think about the past election. 

A 102-year-old woman in Arkansas who voted for the first time on the
very spot she once picked cotton.

A 94-year-old woman in Michigan who voted early and in person in her
seventy-se- — 72nd consecutive election.  You know what she said?  She
said this election was, quote, “the most important vote that we ever
had.”

The daughter who voted in the memory of her dad who died of COVID-19 so
others wouldn’t have the experience of pain and darkness and loss that
she was going through.  Patients out there. 

And the parents — the parents who voted for school their children will
learn in. 

Sons and daughters voted for the planet they’re going to live on.

Young people just turning 18 and everyone who, for the first time in
their lives, thought they could truly make a difference.

America — America and Americans of every background voted.  They voted
for good jobs and higher wages.  They voted for racial equity and
justice.  They voted to make healthcare a right, not a privilege.

And the reason that Americans went to vote and the lengths they went to
vote — to be able to vote in this past election were absolutely
extraordinary.  In fact, the fact that so many election officials across
the country made it easier and safer for them to be able to vote in the
middle of a pandemic was remarkable.

As a result, in 2020, more people voted in America than ever — ever in
the history of America, in the middle of a once-in-a-century pandemic. 
(Applause.)

All told, more than 150 \[million\] Americans of every age, of every
race, of every background exercised their right to vote.

They voted early.  They voted absentee.  They voted in person.  They
voted by mail.  They voted by drop box.  And then they got their
families and friends to go out and vote.

Election officials, the entire electoral system, withstood unrelenting
political attacks, physical threats, intimidation, and pressure.  They
did so with unyielding courage and

faith in our democracy.

With recount after recount after recount, court case after court case,
the 2020 election was the most scrutinized election ever in American
history.  Challenge after challenge brought to local, state, and
election officials; state legislatures; state and federal courts — even
to the United States Supreme Court not once, but twice.

More than 80 judges, including those appointed by my predecessor, heard
the arguments.  In every case, neither cause nor evidence was found to
undermine the national achievement of administering this historic
election in the face of such extraordinary challenges.  

Audits, recounts were conducted in Arizona, in Wisconsin. In Georgia, it
was recounted three times. 

It’s clear.  For those who challenge the results and question the
integrity of the election: No other election has ever been held under
such scrutiny and such high standards.

The Big Lie is just that: a big lie.  (Applause.)

The 2020 election — it’s not hyperbole to suggest — the most examined
and the fullest expression of the will of the people in the history of
this nation.  This should be celebrated — the example of America at its
best.  But instead, we continue to see an example of human nature at its
worst — something darker and more sinister.

In America, if you lose, you accept the results.  You follow the
Constitution.  You try again.  You don’t call facts “fake” and then try
to bring down the American experiment just because you’re unhappy. 
That’s not statesmanship.  (Applause.) 

That’s not statesmanship; that’s selfishness.  That’s not democracy;
it’s the denial of the right to vote.  It suppresses.  It subjugates. 

The denial of full and free and fair elections is the most un-American
thing that any of us can imagine, the most undemocratic, the most
unpatriotic, and yet, sadly, not unprecedented.

From denying enslaved people fu- — full citizenship until the 13th,
14th, and 15th Amendments after the Civil War; to denying women the
right to vote until the 19th Amendment 100 years ago; to poll taxes and
literacy tests, and the Ku Klux Klan campaigns of violence and terror
that lasted into the ‘50s and ‘60s; to the Supreme Court decision in
2013 and then again just two weeks ago –- a decision that weakened the
landmark Voting Rights Act; to the willful attacks — election attacks in
2020; and then to a whole other level of threat — the violence and the
deadly insurrection on the Capitol on January 6th.

I just got back from Europe, speaking to the G7 and to NATO.  They
wonder — not a joke — they wonder, Gov — they ask me, “Is it going to be
okay?”  The citadel of democracy in the world, “Is it o- — going to be
okay?”

Time and again, we’ve weathered threats to the right to vote in free and
fair elections.  And each time, we found a way to overcome.  And that’s
what we must do today.

Vice President Harris and I have spent our careers doing this work.  And
I’ve asked her to lead, to bring people together to protect the right to
vote and our democracy.  And it starts with continuing the fight to pass
H.R.1, the For the People Act.  (Applause.)

That bill — that bill would help end voter suppression in the states,
get dark money out of politics, give voice to the people at the
grassroots level, create a fairer district maps, and end partisan
political gerrymandering. 

Last month, Republicans opposed even debating, even considering For the
People Act.  Senate Democrats stood united to protect our democracy and
the sanctity of the vote.  We must pass the For the People Act.  It’s a
national imperative. 

We must also fight for the John Lewis Voting Rights Advancement Act to
restore and expand — (applause) — to restore and expand voting
protections and prevent voter suppression.  All the congresswomen and
men here — there’s a bunch of you — you knew John, many of you.

Just weeks ago, the Supreme Court yet again weakened the Voting Rights
Act and upheld what Justice Kagan called, quote, “a significant
race-based disparity in voting opportunities.”

The Court’s decision, as harmful as is, does not limit the — Congress’
ability to repair the damage done.  That’s the important point.  It puts
the burden back on Congress to restore the Voting Rights Act to its
intended strength.

As soon as Congress passes the For the People Act and the John Lewis
Voting Rights Advancement Act, I will sign it and let the whole world
see it.  (Applause.)  That will be an important moment. 

And the world is wondering — the world is wondering — and Dwight knows
what I’m talking about, for real.  You know, the world is wondering,
“What is America going to do?”

But we also have to clear-eyed about the obstruction we face. 
Legislation is one tool, but not the only tool.  And it’s not the only
measure of our obligation to defend democracy today. 

For example, Attorney General Merrick Garland announced that the United
States Department of Justice is going to be using its authorities to
challenge the onslaught of state laws undermining voting rights in old
and new ways.  (Applause.)

The focus — the focus will be on dismantling racially discriminatory
laws, like the recent challenge to Georgia’s vicious anti-voting law.

The Department of Justice will do so with a voting rights division that
— at my request — is doubling its size in enforcement staff.  (Applause)

Civil rights groups — civil rights groups and other organizations have
announced their plans to stay vigilant and challenge these odious laws
in the courts.

In Texas, for example, Republican-led state legislature wants to allow
partisan poll watchers to intimidate voters and imperil impartial poll
workers.  They want voters to dive \[drive\] farther and be able to be
in a position where they wonder who’s watching them and intimidating
them; to wait longer to vote.  To drive a hell of lot lo- — excuse me —
a long way — (laughter) — to get to vote.  They want to make it so hard
and inconvenient that they hope people don’t vote at all.  That’s what
this is about.

This year alone, 17 states have enacted — not just proposed, but enacted
— 28 new laws to make it harder for Americans to vote, not to mention —
and catch this — nearly 400 additional bills Republican members of the
state legislatures are trying to pass.

The 21st century Jim Crow assault is real.  It’s unrelenting, and we’re
going to challenge it vigorously. 

While — (applause) — while this broad assault against voting rights is
not unprecedented, it’s taking on a new and, literally, pernicious
forms.

It’s no longer just about who gets to vote or making it easier for
eligible voters to vote.  It’s about who gets to count the vote — who
gets to count whether or not your vote counted at all.  It’s about
moving from independent election administrators who work for the people
to polarized state legislatures and partisan actors who work for
political parties.

To me, this is simple: This is election subversion.  It’s the most
dangerous threat to voting and the integrity of free and fair elections
in our history.  Never before have they decided who gets to count —
count — what votes count.

Some — some legi- — state legislatures want to make it harder for you to
vote.  And if you vote, they want to be able to tell you your vote
doesn’t count for any reason they make up.

They want the ability to reject the final count and ignore the will of
the people if their preferred candidate loses.

And they’re trying — not only targeting people of color, they’re
targeting voters of all races and backgrounds.  It’s with a simple
target: who did not vote for them.  That’s the target.

It’s unconscionable.  I mean, really, I — it’s hard to — it’s hard to
declare just how critical this is.  It’s simply unconscionable.

We’ve got to shore up our election system and address the threats of
election subversion, not just from abroad — which I spent time with
Putin talking about — but from home.  From home.

We must ask those who represent us at the federal, state, and local
levels: Will you deny the will of the people?  Will you ignore their
voices?

We have to ask: Are you on the side of truth or lies; fact or fiction;
justice or injustice; democracy or autocracy?  That’s what it’s coming
down to.

Which brings me to perhaps the most important thing we have to do: We
have to for- — forge a coalition of Americans of every background and
political party — the advocates, the students, the faith leaders, the
labor leaders, the business executives — and raise the urgency of this
moment.

Because as much as people know they’re screwing around with the election
process, I don’t think that most people think this is about who gets to
count what vote counts — literally, not figuratively.  You vote for
certain electors to vote for somebody for President.  State legislator
comes along — under their proposal — and they say, “No, we don’t like
those electors.  We’re going to appoint other electors who are going to
vote for the other guy or other woman.”

Because here’s the deal: In 2020, democracy was put to a test — first by
the pandemic; then by a desperate attempt to deny the reality and the
results of the election; and then by a violent and deadly insurrection
on the Capitol, the citadel of our democracy.

I’ve been around a long time in public life.  I thought I’ve seen it all
or most of it all.  But I never thought I’d see that, for real. 

And in spite of what you see on television — and you saw it — you have
senators saying it was just a day at the Capitol, just people visiting
the Capitol.

Folks — but we met the test.  Because of the extraordinary courage of
election officials — many of them Republicans; our court system; and
those brave Capitol police officers — because of them, democracy held.

Look how close it came.  I mean, for real, how close it came.  We’re
going to face another test in 2022: a new wave of unprecedented voter
suppression, and raw and sustained election subversion.  We have to
prepare now.

As I’ve said time and again: No matter what, you can never stop the
American people from voting.  They will decide, and the power must
always be with the people.

That’s why, just like we did in 2020, we have to prepare for 2022. 
We’ll engage in an all-out effort to educate voters about the changing
laws, register them to vote, and then get the vote out.

We’ll encourage people to run for office themselves at every level.

We will be asking my Republican friends — in Congress, in states, in
cities, in counties — to stand up, for God’s sake, and help prevent this
concerted effort to undermine our elections and the sacred right to
vote.  (Applause.)  Have you no shame?  (Applause.)

Whether it’s stopping foreign interference in our elections or the
spread of disinformation from within, we have to work together.

Vice President Harris and I will be making it clear that there’s real
peril in making raw power, rather than the idea of liberty, the
centerpiece of the common life.

The Founders understood this.  The women of Seneca Falls understood
this.  The brave, heroic foot soldiers of the Civil Rights Movement
understood this.  So must we.

This isn’t about Democrats and Republicans; it’s literally about who we
are as Americans.  It’s that basic.  It’s about the kind of country we
want today, the kind of country we want for our children and
grandchildren tomorrow.  And quite frankly, the whole world is
watching.  Folks — (applause).

I’m not being sentimental.  I’m not preaching to you.  I’m just giving
it to you straight, as I promised I would always do — lay things out on
the line and honor your trust with trust \[truth\].

So hear me clearly: There is an unfolding assault taking place in
America today — an attempt to suppress and subvert the right to vote in
fair and free elections, an assault on democracy, an assault on liberty,
an assault on who we are — who we are as Americans. 

For, make no mistake, bullies and merchants of fear and peddlers of lies
are threatening the very foundation of our country. 

It gives me no pleasure to say this.  I never thought in my entire
career I’d ever have to say it.  But I swore an oath to you, to God — to
preserve, protect, and defend the Constitution.  And that’s an oath that
forms a sacred trust to defend America against all threats both foreign
and domestic.  (Applause.) 

The assault on free and fair elections is just such a threat,
literally.  I’ve said it before: We’re are facing the most significant
test of our democracy since the Civil War.  That’s not hyperbole.  Since
the Civil War.  The Confederates back then never breached the Capitol as
insurrectionists did on January the 6th.

I’m not saying this to alarm you; I’m saying this because you should be
alarmed.  

I’m also saying this: There’s good news.  It doesn’t have to be this
way.  It doesn’t have to be, for real.  We have the means.  We just need
to show the will — the will to save and strengthen our democracy. 

We did it in 20- — we did it in the 2020.  The battle for the soul of
America — in that battle, the people voted.  Democracy prevailed.  Our
Constitution held.  We have to do it again.  

My fellow Americans, it requires fair-mindedness; devotion to justice;
corny as it sounds, a love of country.  It requires us to unite in
common purpose, to declare here and now: We, the people, will never give
up.  (Applause.)  We will not give in.  We will overcome.  We will do it
together.  And guaranteeing the right to vote, ensuring every vote is
counted has always been the most patriotic thing we can do. 
(Applause.)  

Just remember, our late friend John Lewis said, “Freedom is not a state;
it is an act.”  “Freedom is not a state; it is an act.”  And we must
act, and we will act.  For our cause is just, our vision is clear, and
our hearts are full.  (Applause.) 

For “We the People,” for our democracy, for America itself, we must
act.  (Applause.)

God bless you all.  And may God protect our troops and all those stand
watch over our democracy.  (Applause.)  But act.  We’ve got to act. 
Thank you.  (Applause.)

3:10 P.M. EDT
