---
tags: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-07-14'
modified_time: 2021-07-14 16:32:28-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/07/14/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-before-meeting-with-disabilities-advocates-to-discuss-voting-rights/
published_time: 2021-07-14 16:32:27-04:00
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris Before Meeting with Disabilities Advocates\
  \ to Discuss Voting\_Rights"
---
 
Vice President’s Ceremonial Office

11:47 A.M. EDT  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Well, I want to thank these incredible leaders for
joining us today, this morning.  The issue of voting rights in America
is probably among the most serious and significant issues that we are
facing at this moment.  And voting rights for people with disabilities
is one of our highest priorities.  
  
In that context, I have asked these leaders to join me to provide us
with insight, with advice, and with perspective on not only how these
emerging laws in various states will impact our friends and our
neighbors and family members with disabilities, but also I am fully
aware that even before these laws started to most recently emerge, we
still weren’t doing a good job.  
  
And so that will be part of this conversation as well.  And — but we
know there are, across this country — first of all, there are people
with disabilities across our country.  There are people who vote for a
variety of issues, and this is not a community that’s a monolith, just
like no community is.   
  
But it is — it is an issue when we think about the convenience for all
communities of voting by mail.  And when there are laws that are
restricting or preventing vote-by-mail, what does that mean to the
voters?  What does it mean to the people when we talk about the ability
to vote early for every community?  
  
I talked about, you know, anybody who’s working two or three jobs — what
that means to them.  Let’s see the people in terms of how folks live
their lives and how will these restrictions impact the people’s right to
have their voice reflected through their vote.  
  
When I think about the laws that are — are being passed that — that are
impeding on the assistance folks might need to register their vote, what
will that mean in terms of restriction, suppression of the voice of the
people?   
  
So these are the subjects that we will discuss today.  And — and I will
also add that our administration’s executive order from March will
improve accessibility, and that is a good step.  So, while there are
many steps that I believe are — are going backward, there are some steps
that are going forward.   
  
And in particular, the President’s executive order will, one, require
that federal websites include more information about voting, and also,
that it will be language accessible.  We are making sure that the
federal voter registration form is accessible, that it is not bulky,
that it is not incomprehensible.  Accessibility, again, across the
board.   
  
And we are going to require the National Institute of Standards and
Technology — it’s known as “NIST” — that they study barriers to voting
for people with disabilities and provide recommendations.  
  
And then, there is a very important component to this Friday on this
topic — and I’m so glad that we’re meeting before Friday — which is
that: We have issued a notice asking for input from people with
disabilities to submit that input by the end of Friday, July 16th.   
  
And so, folks can go to — I’m going to give you a website — www — what
would I be, a member of government, without a website.  (Laughter.)  But
www.regulations.gov.  I’m going to repeat that: www.regulations.gov. 
And enter — and then we’ll provide all of this on the web — our website
as well.  Enter uppercase “NIST-2021” — this year — dash and then three
zeros and a three — “0003.”  And we’ll get that information to everybody
in another form as well.  Okay?  
  
     So, I will end my comments for now by saying, again, thank you to
all of the leaders who are convened today.  You represent the
experience, the life, and the voice so many Americans whose voices and
whose perspective must be represented in all of these rooms at all of
these tables.  Because if we are truly a democracy, it means that we
have a representative government that reflects the experience and the
life of all of the people in our country.  And I think we have a lot
more work to do  
in this regard as it relates to our — our fellow Americans with
disabilities.   
  
So, I appreciate you all.  And with that, let’s begin our discussion.  
  
Q    Madam Vice President, do have any comment on your conversation with
the Texas legislatures — legislators from yesterday?  And do you know if
the President plans to meet with them at all?  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  We’ve had an extensive meeting — I had an extensive
meeting yesterday with, I think, some of the most courageous elected
leaders that we could note at this moment.  
  
I said it yesterday, and I’ll say it again: They took bold, courageous
action, in line with the legacy of everyone from Frederick Douglass —
who is over my right shoulder — when he fought for the right of Black
men to vote in America; to the legacy that includes all of those women
who marched down Pennsylvania Avenue for women’s right to vote; to all
of those folks who shed their blood on the Edmund Pettus Bridge to make
sure that we would, in 1965, pass the Voting Rights Act.  
  
And now we have, in 2021, the Texas legislature — many of them traveling
to Washington, D.C., at great sacrifice, both personally and political,
to stand up for Americans’ right to vote unencumbered.  
  
11:54 A.M. EDT
