---
tags: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-07-09'
modified_time: 2021-07-09 17:45:03-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/07/09/remarks-by-president-biden-at-signing-of-an-executive-order-promoting-competition-in-the-american-economy/
published_time: 2021-07-09 17:45:02-04:00
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden At Signing of An Executive Order Promoting Competition\
  \ in the American\_Economy"
---
 
State Dining Room 

1:48 P.M. EDT 

THE PRESIDENT:  Hello, everyone.  They have a Cabinet meeting. 
(Laughter.)  Please — please be seated.  Thank you.

Well, it is not “good morning,” which my remarks say here, but —
(laughter) — good afternoon.  We’re in the midst of a historic economic
recovery.  And because our successful vaccination program strategy has
been working and the immediate relief through the American Rescue Plan
has brought back our economy from the worst economic crisis in nearly a
century, America is now on track.  We’re now on track for the highest
economic growth in 40 years and among the highest growth records on
record.

We designed our ecomi- — our economic strategy to be durable through the
ups and downs that come with recovery.  And there are ups and downs. 

That’s why the American Rescue Plan was designed to help people not just
all at once, but over the course of a full year so we could continue
supporting families, small businesses, state and local budgets to help
them weather those ups and downs. 

And now that the economy is back on track, we’re making progress on the
second phase of our strategy: ensuring long-term growth. 

That’s what my Build Back Better agenda, including my Americans Family
Plan and the bipartisan infrastructure agreement we reached last month —
that’s what they’re all about: long term.

But to keep our country moving, we have to take another step as well —
and I know you’re all tired of hearing me during the campaign and since
I’m elected President talk about it — and that’s bringing fair
competition back to the economy.

That’s why today I’m going to be signing shortly an executive order
promoting competition to lower price — to lower prices, to increase
wages, and to take another critical step toward an economy that works
for everybody. 

The heart of American capitalism is a simple idea: open and fair
competition — that means that if your companies want to win your
business, they have to go out and they have to up their game; better
prices and services; new ideas and products. 

That competition keeps the economy moving and keeps it growing.  Fair
competition is why capitalism has been the world’s greatest force for
prosperity and growth. 

By the same token, “competitive economy” means companies must do all
they do to do — everything they do to compete for workers: offering
higher wages, more flexible hours, better benefits. 

But what we’ve seen over the past few decades is less competition and
more concentration that holds our economy back.  We see it in big
agriculture, in big tech, in big pharma.  The list goes on.

Rather than competing for consumers, they are consuming their
competitors.  Rather than competing for workers, they’re finding ways to
gain the upper hand on labor.  And too often, the government has
actually made it harder for new companies to break in and compete. 

Look at what that means for family budgets.  Take prescription drugs:
Just a handful of companies control the market for many vital medicines,
giving them leverage over everyone else to charge whatever they want. 
As a result, Americans pay two and a half times more for prescription
drugs than in any other leading country.  And nearly one in four
Americans struggles to afford their medication.

Another example: hearing aids.  Right now, if you need a hearing aid,
you can’t just walk into a pharmacy and pick one up over the counter. 
You have to get it from a doctor or a specialist.  Not only does that
make getting hearing aids inconvenient, it makes them considerably more
expensive, and it makes it harder for new companies to compete,
innovate, and sell hearing aids at lower prices. 

As a result, a pair — a pair of hea- — a pair of hearing aids can cost
thousands of dollars.  That’s a big reason why just one in seven
Americans with hearing loss actually use a hearing aid. 

     Another example: Internet services.  There are more than 65 million
Americans who live in a place with only one high-speed Internet
provider.  Research shows, when you have unlimited Internet operation,
you pay up to five times more on average than families in places with
more choices.  That’s what a lack of competition does: it raises the
prices you pay. 

     And it’s not just consumers getting hurt.  Big ag is putting a
squeeze on farmers.  Small and family farms, first-time farmers — like
veterans coming home and Black and Latino and Indigenous farmers —
they’re seeing price hikes for seed, lopsided contracts, shrinking
profits, and growing debt. 

     Lack of competition hurts workers as well.  In many communities,
there are only a handful of employers left competing for workers.  Think
of company towns across Appalachia and other parts of the country where
one big corporation runs the show. 

     When corporations have that kind of leverage over workers, it
pushes down aver- — it pushes down advertised wages by up to 17
percent.  And as competition decreases, businesses don’t feel the
pressure to innovate or invest in their workforce.  That hurts working
families and it hurts our economy. 

     All told, between rising prices and lowering wages, lack of
competition costs the median American household $5,000 a year. 

Now, look, I’m a proud capitalist.  I spent most of my career
representing the corporate state of Delaware.  I know America can’t
succeed unless American business succeeds. 

     But let me be very clear: Capitalism without competition isn’t
capitalism; it’s exploitation.  Without healthy competition, big players
can change and charge whatever they want and treat you however they
want.  And for too many Americans, that means accepting a bad deal for
things that can’t go — you can’t go without. 

     So, we know we’ve got a problem — a major problem.  But we also
have an incredible opportunity.  We can bring back more competition to
more of the country, helping entrepreneurs and small businesses get in
the game, helping workers get a better deal, helping families save money
every month.  The good news is: We’ve done it before. 

     In the early 1900s, President Teddy Roosevelt saw an economy
dominated by giants like Standard Oil and JP Morgan’s railroads.  He
took them on, and he won.  And he gave the little guy a fighting
chance. 

     Decades later, during the Great Depression, his cousin Franklin
Roosevelt saw a wave of corporate mergers that wiped out sec- — scores
of small businesses, crushing competition and innovation.  So he ramped
up antitrust enforcement eightfold in just two years, saving families
billions in today’s dollars and helping to set the course for sustained
economic growth after World War Two. 

     He also called for an economic bill of rights, including, quote,
“the right of every businessman, large and small, to trade in an
atmosphere of freedom from unfair competition and domination by
monopolies.”  End of quote. 

     Between them, the two Roosevelts established an American tradition
— an antitrust tradition.  It is how we ensure that our economy isn’t
about people working for capitalism; it’s about capitalism working for
people. 

     But, over time, we’ve lost the fundamental American idea that true
capitalism depends on fair and open competition.  Forty years ago, we
chose the wrong path, in my view, following the misguided philosophy of
people like Robert Bork, and pulled back on enforcing laws to promote
competition. 

     We’re now 40 years into the experiment of letting giant
corporations accumulate more and more power.  And where- — what have we
gotten from it?  Less growth, weakened investment, fewer small
businesses.  Too many Americans who feel left behind.  Too many people
who are poorer than their parents. 

     I believe the experiment failed.  We have to get back to an economy
that grows from the bottom up and the middle out.

     The executive order I’m soon going to be signing commits the
federal government to full and aggressive enforcement of our antitrust
laws.  No more tolerance for abusive actions by monopolies.  No more bad
mergers that lead to mass layoffs, higher prices, fewer options for
workers and consumers alike. 

     My executive order includes 72 specific actions.  I expect the
federal agencies — and they know this — to help restore competition so
that we have lower prices, higher wages, more money, more options, and
more convenience for the American people. 

     Today, I want to focus on three specific actions: 

First, the FDA — the Food and Drug Administration — are going to work
with states and Tribes to safely import prescription drugs from Canada. 
That’s just one of many actions in the executive order that will lower
prescription drug prices. 

     Second, the FDA is going to issue rules so that hearing aids can be
sold over the counter.  That’s something the last administration was
supposed to have done but didn’t do.  We’re going to get it done.  After
these rules go into effect, a pair of hearing aids can cost hundreds of
dollars, not thousands.  And you’ll be able to pick them up at your
local drugstore. 

     Third, we’re going to improve competition for workers.  I’ve talked
a lot about non-compete agreements — contracts that say you can’t take
another job in your field, even if you get a better deal.  I made a
speech — I was just reminiscing with my staff — back in 2018, at the
Brookings Institution, where I talked about the non-compete clauses that
were just — I found — to be absolutely ridiculous, but how prevalent
they were throughout industries.

     At least one in three businesses require their workers to sign a
non-compete agreement.  These aren’t just high-paid executives or
scientists who hold secret formulas for Coca-Cola so Pepsi can’t get
their hands on it.  A recent study found one in five workers without a
college education is subject to non-compete agreements.  They’re
construction workers, hotel workers, disproportionately women and women
of color. 

     Think of the 26-year-old employee at a company.  She’s a star
worker, but she isn’t being treated right.  She’s underpaid, passed over
for promotions.  A competitor across the street knows and wants to bring
her in at a higher wage, but she can’t do it.  Her company threatens
legal action over a non-compete clause she had to sign in order to get
hired in the first place.  She can’t afford a lawyer for help, so she’s
locked in. 

     Imagine if you’re in her shoes.  You’d feel powerless,
disrespected, bullied, trapped.  That’s not right.  Workers should be
free to take a better job if someone offers it. 

     If your employer wants to keep you, he or she should have to make
it worth your while to stay.  That’s the kind of competition that leads
to better wages and greater dignity of work. 

     Look, I’m not going to go into it now, but I used to talk about,
you know, there’s non-compete clauses of people running the machines
that lay down asphalt.  If, in fact, you get offered a job and you have
a — you know, you’re in Arkansas doing it, a lot of — a specific example
is you can’t take a job in west Texas to do it.  What in the hell does
that have to do with anything?  (Laughter.)  No, I’m serious.  Or there
were clauses in McDonald’s contracts: You can’t leave Burger King to go
to McDonald’s.  Come on.  Is there a trade secret about what’s inside
that patty?  (Laughter.)  No, but I’m serious.

     You all — I don’t know if you do know; I didn’t know it until five
years ago — the incredible number of non-compete clauses for ordinary
people who — it was done for one reason: to keep wages low.  Period.

Look, my executive order calls on the FTC to ban or limit non-compete
agreements.  Let workers chose who they want to work for. 

I’m also calling on the FTC to do away with certain occupational
licensing requirements.  You realize, if you want to braid hair and you
move from one state to another, sometimes you have to do a six-month
apprenticeship, even though you’ve been in the business for a long, long
time?  What the hell — what’s that all about?

Military families, for example, they’re often on the move between states
with each new assignment.  So you have a woman in the military, her
husband is following her, or vice versa.  Guess what?  If you have — if
you’re a plumber, you have to get a different license when you move from
Delaware to Missouri.

Look, it can’t be a significant burden to get a new license in a new
home state.  That burden can’t be around anymore.  It takes time and it
takes money.  It takes a toll on a family’s income while you’re
waiting.  We should remove that barrier, providing more mobility, more
opportunity, higher wages for families on the move. 

This is something that my wife, Jill, has worked on together with
Michelle Obama through the Joining Forces initiative for the military.

We’re going to keep that moving.  We’re going to get it done in an
executive order.

Let me close with this: Competition works.  We know it works.  We’ve
seen it works when it exists.  Fair competition is was what made America
the wealthiest, most innovative nation in history.  That’s why people
come here to invent things and start new businesses. 

In the competition against China and other nations of the 21st century,
let’s show that American democracy and the American people can truly
outcompete anyone.  Because I know that just given half a chance, the
American people will never, ever, ever let their country down.  Imagine
if we give everyone a full and fair chance.  That’s what this is all
about.  That’s what I’m about to do.

So I’d like to invite the Cabinet members up here.  I’d like to — and
the Attorney General is here — Attorney General Garland.  Xavier — Mr.
Secretary, you can come up too.  I’ve been watching on television;
you’ve been really good.  (Laughter.)  Gina Raimondo.  Also, Pete
Buttigieg.  And the chair of the <s>FCC</s> \[FTC\], Lian \[sic\] —
excuse me, Lina Khan, Acting Chair of the FTC.  And Director of the
National Economic Council. 

Am I leaving anybody out?  Anyway, come on up.  This may be the first
Cabinet meeting we’ve had.

Okay.  “Promoting Competition in the American Economy.” 

First pen.  (Laughter.)  Second pen.  Third.  Fourth.  (Laughter.) 
Fifth. 

I’m wondering how Barack did this with a shorter name.  (Laughter.)

(The executive order is signed.)

Thank you.  Thank you, everyone.  (Applause.) 

Q    Mr. President, how did President Putin respond to your call today,
sir?

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, I made it very clear to him that — that the United
States expects, when a ransomware operation is coming from his soil,
even though it’s not — not sponsored by the state, we expect them to act
if we give them enough information to act on who that is. 

And, secondly, that we have set up a means of communications now, on a
regular basis, to be able to communicate to one another when each of us
thinks something is happening in another country that affects the home
country. 

And so, it went well.  I’m optimistic. 

Q    You said, three weeks ago, there would be consequences.  Will there
be, sir?

THE PRESIDENT:  Yes.

2:06 P.M. EDT
