---
tags: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-07-27'
modified_time: 2021-07-29 11:38:40-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/07/27/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-before-a-meeting-on-native-american-voting-rights/
published_time: 2021-07-27 11:37:00-04:00
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris Before a Meeting on Native American Voting\_\
  Rights"
---
 
Vice President’s Ceremonial Office  
Eisenhower Executive Office Building

4:21 P.M. EDT  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  I want to thank these extraordinary leaders for
accepting my invitation to have a in-depth and serious discussion about
the issue of voting rights and what we must do to address longstanding
issues and the most recent issues.  
  
It goes without saying, but I will say it, that the United States have a
very unique and very important nation-to-nation relationship with our
Tribal governments.  And I believe it is part of the solemn duty of the
United States government to respect the sovereignty and the significance
of those government-to-government relations.  
  
So, I have asked these leaders to join me so we can talk and I can hear
from them, most importantly, about what we must do to address the issue
that is a longstanding and a recent issue around attempts to interfere
with all people’s right to vote.    
  
In particular, I think it is important to always speak the truth about
history.  So, I will remind us of a few facts: Native Americans were
denied the sacred right to vote and faced discrimination and exclusion
at the ballot box in the history of the United States.  Native Americans
were not universally granted U.S. citizenship and the right to vote
until 1924 — 1924.    
  
Even after the Indian Citizenship Act was passed, states still barred
Native Americans from voting for decades.  Arizona and New Mexico barred
Native Americans from voting until 1948 — and that was on paper, much
less what happened in terms of practice.  
  
Where Native Americans could vote by law — we know that, in many places,
Jim-Crow-style policies still prevented or denied meaningful access to
the ballot box for our Native American brothers and sisters.  
  
And so these truths must be told.  They must be told in the context of
agreeing that all people should have their right to vote unencumbered.
 And that, if we are truly a nation that prioritizes the voice of each
person, we must make sure that they have meaningful access to the
polls.  
  
Today, what we know, in addition, is that one in three Native Americans
who are eligible to vote are not yet registered.  And a lot of that has
to do with lack of access to the resources and the facilities that allow
people to get registered to vote.  
  
We can look at the reality of where folks live and, in particular, when
we’re talking about the Plains states and we’re looking at the
difficulty of getting to a polling location and the distances between
where people live and where the polling location is located.  
  
In Montana and North Dakota, for example, I’ve heard stories about it
taking at least one hour each way to get to the polling location and
then get home.  God forbid there’s a snowstorm and what that might mean
in terms of the encumbrances on the ability of people to exercise their
right to vote.   
  
And then we look at the new law in 18 states.  Those legislative bodies
have passed 30 new laws, which target ballot collection, which target
out-of-precinct voting, and this directly impacts our Tribal
communities.   
  
So, there are solutions.  We must pass the For the People Act and we
must pass the John Lewis Voting Rights Act.  We must ensure that all
people’s rights to access to the poll is protected and encouraged.    
  
Specific to the Native American and Alaska Native communities, we must
also ensure that communities get ballots to the polling places, right?
 So again, this is about once folks have voted, actually getting those
ballots where they will be counted.    
  
Langua- — language access is another issue that we must address, both in
terms of historically what it has prevented as a barrier, but also what
we must do today to acknowledge language access and facilitate the
ability of people to exercise their right.    
  
And access to polling locations in Tribal communities, again, continues
to be an issue.   
  
Our administration issued an executive order on many issues that relate
to voting rights but, in particular, that also relate to our Native
American and Alaska Native folks and what we must do.   
  
To that end, we have been engaged with consultations with the Tribes and
Tribal leaders in recognition of the government-to-government
relationship and in recognition, therefore, of the need to consult with
these leaders to make sure that whatever it is that we are doing to fix
the problems, it is informed by what the leaders tell us are in fact the
problems.   
  
So, with that, I will close my comments by saying that democracy is
strongest for our country when everyone participates; it is weaker when
anyone is denied the ability to participate.   
  
So, with that, it is my honor to introduce an incredible leader,
Secretary Debra Haaland.  We all know her for all the groundbreaking she
has done, but I’ll talk specifically about the work she has done.  Debra
Haaland has been, I think, one of the great leaders in our nation
elevating Native voices.  She has been a courageous leader when it comes
to issues like climate change.    
  
She has been charting a course that is, again, about leadership and
protecting public lands.  And she also happens to be the first Native
American member of any presidential administration’s Cabinet and also,
to that extent, the first who is Secretary of the Interior.    
  
You are an incredible leader.  I’m honored to have you at this table.
 And I would like to offer you some time to share some words.  
  
SECRETARY HAALAND:  Thank you.  Thank you.  Thank you, Madam Vice
President, and I’m so happy to be here with all of you today.  Guw’aadzi
Hauba, offering my warmest greetings.  I’m grateful to Vice President
Harris for the opportunity to join all of you today, my dear friends.   
  
I’m honored to be here to discuss Native American voting rights,
especially at a time in our country when protecting the right to vote is
more important than ever.  Indian Tribes are some of the oldest
democracies on the planet.  Our Constitution is modeled after Tribal
governments like the Haudenosaunee Confederacy.    
  
It’s critical that we protect the right to vote in federal elections
across Indian Country.  I thank President Biden and Vice President
Harris for investing in communities of color by protecting their right
to vote.    
  
The executive order on promoting access to voting established the White
House Native American Voting Rights Steering Group.  Today and tomorrow,
I will engage directly with Tribal leaders and other experts so we can
advance voting equality.    
  
I got my introduction to electoral politics by registering voters in
Tribal communities in my state.  I would buckle my child, Somáh, in the
car, lace up my sneakers, and go door to door in rural New Mexico,
registering voters.  And I would show up to community gatherings with my
clipboard, ready to give folks election information.   
  
I knew that when we had a voice, we could make a difference.  And I
still believe that wholeheartedly.  It’s been an intergenerational
fight.  In some states, Native Americans were openly excluded from
participating in the electoral process until the ‘50s.  Unfortunately,
systematic barriers to accessing the ballot box for Native people living
on Tribal lands still exist today.    
  
Though marginalized communities across the country continue to fight to
participate in our democracy, we have found inspiration in leaders who
fought to dismantle barriers to the ballot box.    
  
Miguel Trujillo is one of those leaders.  Even though Miguel Trujillo’s
story is not often found in U.S. history books, his story is no less
prolific in our fight for voting rights.  Trujillo was Isleta Pueblo
Tribal citizen and defended our country as a Marine in World War Two.   
  
When he came home to New Mexico, he was denied the right to vote in the
state of New Mexico because he was a Native American and living on
Tribal lands.  Miguel sued the state, as he should, in 1948, and won.
 But not all states followed suit.  Others refused Natives the right to
vote for at least another 10 years.   
  
In a country where Tribal Nations are credited with establishing the
oldest participatory democracies in the world and where the Founding
Fathers replicated Tribes fundamental democratic principles into our
Constitution, it’s long past time that we secure voting rights for
people, regardless of what community they are from.   
  
Voting is sacred and must be treated accordingly.  I express my deep
gratitude, once again, Madam Vice President, for the invitation today,
and I look forward to all of us working together.  And I’m so happy to
be here with all of you.  Dawaa’e.  Thank you.    
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Thank you.  
  
Q    Madam Vice President, can you talk a little bit more about masks
here today?  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  None of us like wearing masks.  People need to get
vaccinated.  People need to get vaccinated.  It will save their life.   
  
This — this virus is no joke.  The people who are in hospitals today
with COVID-19 — the vast majority of them have been unvaccinated.   
  
When you look at the people who are dying right now from COVID-19,
almost none of them have been vaccinated.  People need to get
vaccinated.  That’s the only way we’re going cut this thing off.   
  
Nobody likes wearing a mask.  Get vaccinated.  
  
4:32 P.M. EDT  
