---
category: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-07-09'
modified_time: 2021-07-09 19:05:12-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/07/09/background-press-call-by-senior-administration-officials-on-president-bidens-call-with-president-putin-of-russia/
published_time: 2021-07-09 19:05:11-04:00
title: "Background Press Call By Senior Administration Officials On President\_Biden\u2019\
  s Call With President Putin of\_Russia"
---
 
Via Teleconference

3:25 P.M. EDT

     MODERATOR:  Good afternoon, everyone.  Today’s call is going to be
on background, attributed to a “senior administration official,” and the
contents are going to be embargoed until the conclusion of the call. 

     With that, we’ll turn it over to our speaker, \[senior
administration official\].  \[Senior administration official\], over to
you.

     SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks.  And thanks, everybody,
for being here. 

     There were two main topics, obviously, in the President’s call
today with President Putin.  First, Syria — which I really want to
underscore because I think it deserves some attention. 

     I really — the leaders commended the work of their respective teams
following the U.S.-Russia summit that led to today’s unanimous renewal
of cross-border humanitarian assistance to Syria in the U.N. Security
Council.  And I genuinely encourage you to reach out to NGOs and other
humanitarian organizations about the impact of this.

     For months, we’ve been concerned about the likelihood, if not a
near certainty, of a Russian veto of the U.N. Security Council
resolution that allows for humanitarian assistance to be provided across
the Syrian border from Turkey.  And it is our strong sense that only
leader-level engagement along the lines that took place at the summit in
Geneva would have gotten this extension done and this access secured at
a time of severe humanitarian distress and need in Syria. 

     So, we think that’s quite a consequential action and a genuine
impact of the President’s personal engagement and of the summit.

     President Biden also spoke with President Putin, obviously, about
the ongoing ransomware attacks by criminals based in Russia that have
impacted the United States and other countries around the world. 
President Biden underscored the need for Russia to take action to
disrupt ransomware groups operating on Russian territory, and emphasized
that he’s committed to continued engagements on the broader threat posed
by ransomware. 

     The President believes strongly in this leader-level engagement on
this issue as well.  And we engage in this type of diplomacy not because
we agree often or all the time, but precisely because we have these
disagreements in so many areas, including this one. 

     President Biden reiterated that the United States will take
necessary action to defend its people and its critical infrastructure in
the face of this continuing challenge.  And the President has also
called on governments and agencies to modernize their defenses to meet
this threat, building on the President’s executive order on
cybersecurity that was released in May.

     I want to say a few other things about this: The President really
meant what he said just after concluding the summit meeting in Geneva,
when he said that our assessment of this process and our evaluation of
Russia’s actions would take time and play out over time.  The President
said six months or more. 

     This is more than just a conversation that’s taking place between
the two leaders, President Biden and President Putin.  This is really
about our own resilience, as a nation, in the face of these attacks, and
strengthening that.  That’s what the cybersecurity executive order was
largely about. 

It’s about addressing the challenges posed by cryptocurrency, which
provides fuel for these sorts of transactions. 

It’s about ensuring that our allies and our partners are working with
us, collaboratively, and upping their own game when it comes to
resilience and these broader issues. 

So, this is a broad campaign and won’t have an immediate on-off effect
like a light switch, but we’re going to have to stay on top of this over
a period of time and remain focused on it. 

So, with that, \[senior administration official\], I’m happy to take
whatever questions there are.

Q    On Syria, you mentioned we should call NGO groups, and we have. 
And they say that this isn’t good enough, that six-month extension; even
if there’s no requirement for another vote — in six months, it’s just
not long enough to plan for humanitarian groups. 

Human Rights Watch said that Russia successfully blackmailed the
international community.  Amnesty said Russia continues to play games
with the lives and welfare of millions of people.  So how do you paint
this as a success if these groups are saying it’s not? 

And on cyber, the U.S. has given Russia information on the people it
wants arrested.  Assuming Russia has not made those arrests, how is it
that you can expect Russian action when you’ve asked for those actions
and they haven’t been taken?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thank, Nick.  So, first of all, this
was a 15 to 0 vote in the Security Council, broadly, strongly believed
by the United States and our closest allies that this was a big step
forward on the humanitarian front.  And the groups that we’ve been in
touch with have a different impression from the ones that you’ve just
quoted. 

We see the six-month extension with a virtually automatic additional six
months.  In other words, adding up to a full-year extension of
humanitarian access is being far better than what was expected in recent
months and consider this to be a significant progress on the
humanitarian issues.  And we’re going to have to stay on top of them,
obviously.

On Russia’s follow-up actions: Look, you know, time will tell.  The
President was quite clear that part of why he wanted to gauge what
President Putin was willing to do with regard to these actions that have
taken place from Russian territory was so the United States could gauge
what we’re going to be willing to do. 

And I think the President was asked today if he expected us, the United
States, to take action, to follow up.  He said, “Yes.”  We’re not going
to telegraph what those actions will be precisely.  Some of them will be
manifest and visible, some of them may not be.  But we expect those to
take place, you know, in the days and weeks ahead.

Q    Hi there.  Thank you for doing this.  What did Russia get in
exchange for not voting to close the crossing into Syria?

And as far as the timing, did the administration wait until Russia did
vote that way before making this, kind of, more punitive call on
ransomware?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  So, on your second question: No — I
mean, I think the timing of these two topics was more coincidental than
linked.  I don’t think we linked these issues in any way.

On your first question, I guess I would refer you to the Russian
government to explain its rationale and its calculus for this vote.  I
mean, for our purposes, you know, what we were concerned about was the
continued, sustained, and ideally enhanced flow of humanitarian
assistance into all parts of Syria, and we think that’s what this has
accomplished.

Q    Hey, this is actually Rachel Scott with ABC.  We’re just in the
booth together.  Thanks so much for taking my question. 

The President was just asked (inaudible) servers that are used to carry
out ransomware hacks.  So, my first question is: Has the President
already directed officials to do that? 

And just another follow-up question.  We just got a readout from the
Kremlin.  They say that they’ve received no formal request to assist in
dealing with the attacks from U.S. agencies.  What is the
administration’s response to that?  Is there any indication that they’re
taking (inaudible) this morning?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Sorry.  Can — the very first part of
your question got garbled.  Has the President directed agencies and
departments to do what specifically, did you ask?

Q    Yeah.  (Inaudible) now, given —

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  You’re still — you’re still really
breaking up, so — I’m sorry.  I’m — maybe, Operator, you can hear this,
but I can’t.

OPERATOR:  It’s breaking up on my end as well.  Molly, can you hear us?

Q    Can you hear me?

OPERTATOR:  Your line was breaking up. 

Go ahead.

Q    Yeah, I can — I’ll ask it again.  I’m walking out of the booth. 
Sorry, stick with me (inaudible).

So, the President was just asked on the tarmac if it makes sense to
attack the servers that are used to carry out the ransomware hacks.  The
President said, “Yes.”  So, my question is: Has he — has he planned to
direct — have you already directed any officials to carry out that
action?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  So — okay, I guess I’ll take the two
parts of your question.  On the first question, that’s obviously not
something that we would speak to publicly, in terms of any specific
actions the President has or hasn’t ordered.  So I just won’t speak to
those operational questions in detail.

On your second question about the Kremlin’s readout, I guess what I can
say is that we have relayed multiple specific requests for action on
cybercriminals to Russia through official channels and been clear about
what Russia’s responsibility is with regard to taking action, including,
again, today, at the level of the two presidents.  And I’ll just leave
it at that.

MODERATOR:  Hey, everyone.  This is \[senior administration
officials\].  Just on that — on that first part of that last question, I
would encourage folks to go back and look at the full official
transcript of what the President said earlier.  I think that there might
be a bit of a garble there, but folks should be checking the transcript,
please.

With that, I’m afraid that we’re out of time, and we have to get our
speaker to his next meeting.  Thanks, everyone, for joining, and have a
good rest of your afternoon.

   3:36 P.M. EDT
