---
category: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-07-29'
modified_time: 2021-07-29 19:30:38-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/07/29/remarks-by-president-biden-laying-out-the-next-steps-in-our-effort-to-get-more-americans-vaccinated-and-combat-the-spread-of-the-delta-variant/
published_time: 2021-07-29 19:45:00-04:00
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden Laying Out the Next Steps in Our Effort to Get\
  \ More Americans Vaccinated and Combat the Spread of the Delta\_Variant"
---
 
East Room

4:23 P.M. EDT      
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Good afternoon.  Today, I want to talk with you about
COVID-19.  
  
Maybe the best way to start is: In a significant part of the country,
you wouldn’t have to take one of these off, you don’t have to put one on
— like in my home state of Delaware, where I lived in New Castle County,
where I was yesterday in Pennsylvania — because people got vaccinated. 
They got vaccinated.  They don’t need a mask when the majority — the
vast majority of people got vaccinated.   
  
Now, look, I want to talk about what’s really happening — what it means,
what it doesn’t mean, and what we need to do this week and the months
ahead.   
  
From the moment I was elected, I said I’d always give it to you straight
from the shoulder, and we need some straight talk right now.  Because
there’s a lot of fear and misinformation in the country, and we need to
cut through it with facts, with science, with the truth.  
  
So, what’s really happening today?  
  
After months and months of cases going down, we’re seeing a spike in
COVID cases.  They’re going up.  Why?  Because of this new form, this
new variant called the “Delta variant.”  
  
This is a much different variant than the one we dealt with previously. 
It’s highly transmissible, and it’s causing a new wave of cases in those
who are not vaccinated.  
  
Our experts tell me that cases will go up further  
before they start to come back down.  But while cases are on the rise,
they’re not — we’re not likely to see, according to experts, a
comparable rise in hospitalizations or deaths in most areas of the
country.  
  
So, you have to ask yourself: Why is that?  Because 164 million
Americans are fully vaccinated, including 80 percent of those most
vulnerable — our seniors.  
  
So, there’s a challenge, as we knew there could be.  But there’s also
good news.  
  
We’ve spent the last six months preparing for this possibility.  The
vaccines are highly effective.  We have enough vaccine for everyone to
get vaccinated.  
  
And thanks to the American Rescue Plan and the hard work of the American
people, we’ve administered over 325 million vaccination doses in the
past six months.  
  
We have the tools to prevent this new wave of COVID from shutting down
our businesses, our schools, our society, as we saw happen last year.  
  
I’ve said from the beginning that we will be guided by the science.  So
here’s what the science tells us:  
  
On Tuesday, the Center for Disease Control and Prevention — the CDC —
announced its new mask recommendation in parts of the country where
COVID cases are substantially high, where people didn’t get vaccinated —
which they define as 50 new cases for every 100,000 people in a week.  
  
The CDC recommends you wear a mask when you’re in public and indoors,
like work or in a grocery store.  That’s true for both the vaccinated
and the unvaccinated.  Why?  Because even if you’ve been fully
vaccinated and protected from severe illness from COVID-19, you could
have the Delta variant in your system  
and spread it to someone who isn’t vaccinated.    
  
We need to wear masks to protect each other and to stop the rapid spread
of this virus as we work to get more people vaccinated.  
  
And I hope all Americans who live in areas with substantial or high case
rates will follow the mask guidance that’s being laid down by the CDC. 
I certainly will.  And I have — because this is one of those areas, in
Washington.   
  
And at my decision — at my direction, all federal personnel and visitors
to federal buildings will have to do the same thing.  
  
As I’ve said from the beginning, a mask is not a political statement;
it’s about protecting yourself and protecting others.  Masking is one
defense against the spread of COVID-19.  
  
But make no mistake: Vaccines are the best defense against you getting
severely ill from COVID-19 — the very best defense.  
  
And you want to know how we put this virus behind us?   Well, I’ll tell
you how: We need to get more people vaccinated.  
  
Look, and it’s important to understand what vaccines do and what they
don’t do.  Put simply, the vaccines are designed to save lives and
prevent severe illness.  They’re highly effective at both.   
  
A hundred and ninety million Americans have had at least one shot.  Of
that group, about 90 percent are done now, and 10 percent are waiting
for the second shot.   
  
To those folks who have one shot but not the second: Go get the second
shot.  Even if you’re overdue for the second shot, it is not too late. 
Go get the second shot now.  Now.   
  
The bottom line is: If you’re fully vaccinated, you’re highly protected
from COVID-19.  But I also know that many of you who are vaccinated are
concerned about what’s called “breakthrough cases.”  Yes, some fully
vaccinated people will still test positive, and some will show some
symptoms of COVID-19.  That’s expected with almost every vaccine there
is for other diseases.   
  
But breakthrough cases remain rare and almost all are mild cases.  In
fact, virtually all hospitalizations and deaths are among the
unvaccinated.   
  
I also know many of you are wondering if you’ll need a booster shot to
add another layer of protection.  As of now, my medical advisors say the
answer is no.  No American needs a booster now.   
  
But if the science tells us there’s a need for boosters, then that’s
something we’ll do.  And we have purchased the supply — all the supply
we need to be ready if that was called for.  
  
Folks, the truth is, as more people get vaccinated, we are better
protected as a nation to continue reopening safely and responsibly.   
  
But we are not fully out of the woods yet, because what is happening in
America right now is a pandemic — a pandemic of the unvaccinated.  Let
me say that again: It’s a pandemic of the unvaccinated.   
  
There are about 90 million Americans who are eligible to get the shot
but haven’t gotten it yet.  As I just mentioned, nearly all of the
cases, hospitalizations, and deaths due to COVID-19 today are from
unvaccinated people.   
  
Last month, a study showed that over 99 percent of COVID-19 deaths had
been among the unvaccinated — 99 percent.  This is an American tragedy. 
People are dying and will die who don’t have to die.  If you’re out
there unvaccinated, you don’t have to die.   
  
Read the news and you’ll see stories about unvaccinated patients in
hospitals.  As they’re lying in bed, dying from COVID-19, they’re
asking, “Doc, can I get the vaccine?”  And the doctors have to say,
“Sorry, it’s too late.”  
  
Right now, too many people are dying or watching someone they love dying
and saying, “If I just got vaccinated, if I just…”  It’s heartbreaking. 
And it’s complicated even more because it’s preventable.   
  
America is divided between the majority of eligible people who are
vaccinated and those who are not.  And I understand that many of you in
the majority are frustrated with the consequences of the failure of the
minority to get vaccinated.   
  
But I want you to know that I’m going to continue to do everything I can
to encourage the unvaccinated to get vaccinated.  That includes
addressing hesitancy and misinformation head on.   
  
For example, I know some of you are — who are unvaccinated think, “The
development of vaccine was rushed, therefore I’m not going to take a
chance.  As a result, I think it’s not safe because it was rushed.”  I
understand.   
  
But let me explain.  Our top scientists at the National Institute of
Health — the NIH — and across the country got to work applying decades
of research — decades of research — let me repeat that: decades — that
have already been done — the research — to develop the COVID-19 vaccine
when it hit.  
  
In the last six months, more than 325 million doses of the vaccine have
been administered in the United States and billions of doses
administered around the world.  The vaccine was developed and authorized
under a Republican administration, and has been distributed and
administered under a Democratic administration.   
  
The vaccines are safe, highly effective.  There’s nothing political
about them.  Look at all the people who took a shot at it.  They later —
we learned a lot of them have already been vaccinated.  
  
From the start, I have to compliment Republican Senate Minority Leader
Mitch McConnell.  He hadn’t made it political.  He’s encouraged people
to get vaccinated and is continuing to do so, and his state is in pretty
good shape.   
  
Alabama Republican Governor Kay Ivey recently spoke out to encourage
vaccination.  
  
And even the commentators on Fox who have been belittling this for a
long time — some haven’t, but many have — are arguing, “Get
vaccinated.”   
  
Look, this is not about red states and blue states.  It’s literally
about life and death.  It’s about life and death.  That’s what it’s
about.   
  
You know — and I know people talk about freedom.  But I learned, growing
up at school and from my parents, with freedom comes responsibility. 
Your decision to be unvaccinated impacts someone else.   
  
Unvaccinated people spread the virus.  They get sick and fill up our
hospitals.  And that means if someone else has a heart attack or breaks
a hip, there may not be a hospital bed for them.

If you’re unvaccinated, you put your doctor and nurses at risk — the
same frontline, essential workers who put their lives on the line over
the past year and have gone through hell. 

Again, with freedom comes responsibility.  So, please, exercise
responsible judgement.  Get vaccinated — for yourself, for the people
you love, for your country.

 I’m being literal when I say this: As I travel the world, almost every
day a foreign leader calls me, asking can I provide his or her country
more vaccines.  Their people are desperate for vaccines.

I’m doing everything to answer those calls.  We’re sending millions of
vaccines to people around the world.  But, folks, it’s an American
blessing that we have vaccines for each and every American.  We’ve made
it our first and top priority to have available vaccines for every
eligible American and that’s never going to change as long as I’m here. 

And it’s a shame — it’s just such a shame to squander that
blessing.  That’s why after six months of extraordinary work and effort,
today I’m laying out additional steps we should be taking to deliver
these lifesaving vaccines to more Americans.

First, we’re going to provide more incentives to encourage unvaccinated
Americans to get vaccinated.  That starts with paid leave to get the
shot.  We’re still hearing that people are unable to get time off from
their employer to get vaccinated.   Well, this is unacceptable.

For some time now, I’ve said you should be able to get the shot and
still get paid.  Thanks to the American Rescue Plan, the federal
government is fully reimbursing any small- or medium-sized business that
provides workers with paid time off to get vaccinated.

Employers, this costs you nothing.  If you haven’t given employees paid
time off, do it now, please. 

Today, I’m announcing that we’re taking this a step further.   The
federal government will now reimburse those employers to give their
staffs — who give their staffs time off not only to get themselves
vaccinated, but also to get their family members vaccinated.

That means employers can get reimbursed if they give parents time off —
with paid time, paid leave — to take their kids or their own parents to
get vaccinated.  So, I’m calling on all <s>employees</s> \[employers\]
across the country to give paid time off to get the shot or to help a
family member do so.  I promise you: It will cost you, the employer,
nothing.  You’ll be reimbursed.

Secondly, I’m announcing that we’ll continue the work — to work with
states to encourage unvaccinated people to get vaccinated.  In February,
the grocery store chain Kroger’s offered $100 to their associates if
they’d get vaccinated.  And it worked.  Vaccination rates moved up from
50 cent \[sic\] — 50 percent to 75 percent among their employees. 

States like New Mexico, Ohio, and Colorado are offering similar
incentive programs that have helped increase vaccination rates. 

So, today, I’m calling on all states and local governments to use
funding they have received, including from the American Rescue Plan, to
give $100 to anyone who gets fully vaccinated.  

I know that paying people to get vaccinated might sound unfair to folks
who’ve gotten vaccinated already, but here’s the deal: If incentives
help us beat this virus, I believe we should use them.  We all benefit
if we can get more people vaccinated. 

But in addition to providing incentives to encourage vaccination, it’s
time to impose requirements on key groups to make sure they’re
vaccinated.  (Clears throat.)  Excuse me.

Just this week, we took an important step to protect our veterans.  Like
many civilian hospital systems are doing, the Department of Veterans
Affairs will now require COVID-19 vaccines for doctors and nurses and
other healthcare workers who provide medical care for our veterans.

We must do everything possible to protect our veterans from getting
COVID when they come to get medical care they so richly earned serving
their country.  We owe them.

Next, since many vaccinations are required for active duty military
today, I’m asking the Defense Department to look into how and when they
will add COVID-19 to the list of vaccinations our armed forces must
get. 

Our men and women in uniform who protect this country from grave threats
should be protected as much as possible from getting COVID-19.  

I think this is particularly important because our troops serve in
places throughout the world, many where vaccination rates are low and
disease is prevalent.

Next, every federal government employee will be asked to attest to their
vaccination status.  Anyone who does not attest or is not vaccinated
will be required to mask no matter where they work; test one or two
times a week to see if they have a — they have acquired COVID; socially
distance; and generally will not be allowed to travel for work.  
  
Likewise, today, I’m directing my administration to take steps to apply
similar standards to all federal contractors.  If you want to do
business with the federal government, get your workers vaccinated.  
  
Look at the Chamber of Commerce representing tens of thousands of
American businesses.  The National Association of Manufacturers.  The
Business Roundtable, which is comprised of the largest and biggest
corporations in America.  They’re all applauding the actions the federal
government is taking, and I urge them to follow suit.   
  
I also commend the National Football League that has announced that if
there are outbreaks among unvaccinated players and personnel, then the
team risks forfeiting games.  I urge other sport leagues at every level
to take every step they can.  
  
Every day, more businesses are implementing their own vaccine mandates. 
And the Justice Department has made it clear that it is legal to require
COVID-19 vaccines.  
  
We all want our lives to get back to normal, and fully vaccinated work
places will — will make that happen more quickly and more successfully. 
We all know that in our gut.  With incentives and mandates, we can make
a huge difference and save a lot of lives.   
  
I also want to speak to families with children in school.  We can and we
must open schools this fall full time.  It’s better for our children’s
mental and emotional wellbeing, and we can’t afford another year out of
the classroom.  Every school should be open, and we’re giving them the
tools to be able to do so safely.  Even in those areas where they have a
higher vaccination — they have a higher rate of COVID.   
  
Through the American Rescue Plan, we’ve provided schools billions of
dollars to implement safety measures: better ventilation, social
distancing, and other measures.  
  
In March, when vaccinations were scarce, I prioritized teachers and
school workers by utilizing our Federal Pharmacy Program.  Almost 90
percent of educators and school staff are now vaccinated.   
  
Additionally, the CDC has provided clear guidance on how all schools can
safely protect the kids and bring them back to the classroom: every
student wear a mask.  It’s that simple.  
  
So, we’ve funded safety measures at schools, we’ve vaccinated teachers
and staff, and we can mask up our kids for further protection.  
  
But once again, there’s one more thing we need to do: Get more
adolescents, ages 12 and up, vaccinated now that they’ve been cleared. 
In the past week, the good news is we’re seeing the average number of
12- to 17-year-olds getting vaccinated go — increase 22 percent per
day.   
  
Today, I’m asking school districts to host one last pop-up vaccination
clinic over the coming weeks for kids ages 12 and up.  We’re directing
the Federal Pharmacy Program to help make that happen.  
  
Parents, get your children vaccinated.  You do it for so many other
things right now.   
  
And for kids under 12, if and when the vaccines are deemed safe for
them, we’ll be prepared to get the vaccines administered as quickly and
as safely as possible.  
  
Look — and as we work to vaccinate more Americans, we’re prepared for
outbreaks in areas of — where there are unvaccinated people.   
  
My administration has made it clear to every governor that more federal
resources are available to them.  This includes the deployment of surge
teams composed of ex- — experts from the CDC and the Federal Emergency
Management Agency — the FEMA.  
  
We’re going to continue to provide states with more testing, treatments,
protective equipment, personnel, mobile vaccination clinics to stem the
surge of the virus among the unvac- — unvaccinated.  
  
The pictures of hospitals in several states overloaded with patients is
unnecessary, avoidable, and tragic.  You know, we’ll help any health
system overloaded and unable to cope with a spike in cases.  We’re ready
to do that.  
  
Let me close with this: If you’re at home and vaccinated but anxious or
even angry, or if you’re at home and unvaccinated, unbothered and
unconvinced, let’s step back and see where we are.   
  
Just remember how we’ve emerged from a dark winter into a hopeful spring
and summer.  But really remember just how dark that winter was.  
  
Over 3,600 Americans were dying each and every day.  And now, even with
the surge among the unvaccinated, we’re down to that — 300 Americans a
day.  Significant.   
  
Millions of people were out of work, out of homes, out of hope, and
going hungry.  Remember those long lines of people in their automobiles
waiting for a box of food to be put in their trunk?  
  
Experts and pundits said we couldn’t get the vaccines.  And even if we
could get the vaccines, we couldn’t get them in people’s arms and
couldn’t get them vaccinated.  They predicted our economy would
collapse.  But remember how we stayed focused and how we went to
work?   
  
In six months, we got 164 million Americans fully vaccinated.  And
because we vaccinated so many people, put in place so many safety
measures, and got economic help to businesses and people most in need,
our economy is recovering.   
  
More than 3 million Americans are back to work since I was sworn in — a
faster job growth than any previous administration.  Any.   
  
We’re experiencing the fastest economic growth in nearly four decades. 
The best in the world as of now.   
  
In fact, today’s GDP numbers show that in the first half of the year,
our economy grew faster than any point in nearly 40 years.  Our economy
grew more in six months than most Wall Street forecasters expected for
the entire year before we implemented our plan.   
  
And just yesterday, we announced a bipartisan infrastructure deal that’s
going to continue this momentum over the long term by making the most
significant investment to rebuild America in nearly a century.   
  
But we still have to face many challenges.  We still have a lot of work
to do as we readjust to a post-pandemic economy.  But we have the right
plan.  We’re coming back.  We just have to stay ahead of this virus.   
  
I know this is hard to hear.  I know it’s frustrating.  I know it’s
exhausting to think we’re still in this fight.  And I know we hoped this
would be a simple, straightforward line, without problems or new
challenges.  But that isn’t real life.  We’re coming out of the worst
public health crisis in 100 years, the worst economic crisis since the
Great Depression.   
  
As I told you before, I carry a card in my pocket — I hope I have it
with me — I have — carry a card in my pocket with the number of
Americans dead from COVID-19.  As of today — this morning — the total
deaths in the United States were 609,441.  Granted, the death rate per
day is way down; it’s down to 400, about, dead.   
  
But that’s more deaths than World War One, World War Two, Vietnam, 9/11,
Iraq, and Afghanistan wars combined.  This is as tough as it gets.   
  
We’re Americans.  When we get knocked down, we get back up.  That’s who
we are.  That’s what we do.  That’s why there’s no nation on Earth like
us.  
  
And we’re prepared like never before.  We have the tools to save lives,
to keep our economy growing and growing and going.  
  
After the past six months, following the science, we know we can
dramatically lower the cases in this country.  We can do this.  We
brought our economy back to life, and we kept it going.  We know we can
send our kids back to school.  We know we can beat this virus.  We can
do this.  We all just have to do our part.   
  
My fellow Americans, this nation has never failed when we have come
together as the United States of America.  So I say to all those who are
unvaccinated: Please — please get vaccinated.   
  
And to the rest of America: This is no time to be despondent or let our
guard — our guard down.  We just need to finish the job with science,
with facts, with the truth.  And together, as Americans, we’re going to
be able to beat this.  
  
May God bless you all.  May God protect our troops.  Thank you.  
  
Q    Mr. President, how long do you think it might be necessary to wear
masks?  And at what point do you think people might have to have a
booster shot?  Thank you.  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  I said it in my talk: The booster shot is not needed
now.  It is possible that it will be needed later.  I don’t know — they
don’t — the science hasn’t dictated that yet.  And the fir- — first part
of your question?  
  
Q    How long do you think people might have to wear a mask again?   
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Well, if you notice, a lot of places, people don’t have
to wear masks.  Let’s get that straight.  The places where people have
gotten vaccinated, where we have a high vaccination rate, people do not
have to wear a mask at all.   
  
Like some of you were with me yesterday when I was up in Lehigh Valley. 
Didn’t have to wear a mask there.  Don’t have to mask if you come home
to Delaware with me — I know you love doing that.  But you don’t have to
wear a mask.  The places people are probably going to have to wear
masks: in those communities where the high rate of unvaccinated stays
high and they don’t move — they don’t move to getting vaccinated.   
  
But I think you’re going to find the patience of businesses and the
patience of a lot of other people running thin.  Because the fact is, if
you had high vaccination rates, you — we wouldn’t be in the spot right
now.  
  
Yes.   
  
Q    Mr. President, will this set up a — an American workplace for
federal workers and private sector that really is the vaccinated versus
the unvaccinated?  And is that a pressure you’re trying to harness
now?   
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Well, no, I’m not — look, what I’m trying to do is keep
people safe.  I mean that sincerely.   
  
So, if in fact you’re unvaccinated, you present a problem to yourself,
to your family, and to those with whom you work.  Because as pointed out
— I was asked the question about, “Why would people who have already
been vaccinated get it?”  Well, you got anywhere from 2 to 3 percent, on
average — the last study done — that can still get COVID.  They don’t
get very sick.  They don’t get hospitalized.  It’s not serious, but they
can catch it.   
  
And the concern is they may be able to pass it on.  And so, that’s all
being studied right now.  But it’s important — thing is, if people are
vaccinated, the transmission rate drops through the floor.  And that’s
all we’re trying to do.   
  
Yes.   
  
Q    Mr. President, thank you.  Why not push for vaccine mandates in
states, private companies, schools?  Do you want to see those entities
pass vaccine mandates?   
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Well, I — I’d like to see them continue to move in that
direction, and that’s why I point it out.  I had asked the Justice
Department to determine whether that is — they’re able to do that
legally, and they can.  Local communities can do that.  Local businesses
can do that.   
  
It’s still a question whether the federal government can mandate the
whole country.  I don’t know that yet.  
  
Q    Mr. President, you said, earlier this week, that we are not headed
back towards lockdowns.  But if the science is evolving, how can you be
so confident in that?  You heard — we heard you saying, weeks ago, that
“the virus \[was\] on the run,” but Dr. Fauci has also indicated that we
are headed in the wrong direction.   
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Well, look, you’re take — you’re literally correct on
everything you said, but it doesn’t make — come to the conclusion you’re
implying.   
  
It is clear that if everybody is vaccinated, the existing vaccines work
to prevent death, serious illness, hospitalization.  Okay?  If every —
so, if tomorrow I can wave a wand and every American was vaccinated,
then in fact we’d be out of the woods.   
  
Now, can something else happen a year from now?  Can there be a
different virus?  Can there be something?  It’s possible.  But I’m
talking about COVID and the existing variants that have come forward so
far.   
  
So, it makes a — it’s a simple proposition: If you’re vaccinated, you
find yourself in a situation where you are — highly unlikely, even if
you somehow get the virus; very small percentage do — that you are not
going to be hospitalized, you’re not going to be on a ventilator, you’re
not going to be sick, but you could be in a position to possibly spread
it to someone who wasn’t if you have it in you.   
  
Yes.  
  
Q    Mr. President, thank you.  I wanted to ask: Why not require that
the people show proof that they’re vaccinated?  And also, if you could
just — with the 4 million, how much of an impact do you think this will
have?  Do you have a projection, sir?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  A projection on what?  
  
Q    On how many people will get vaccinated by putting in this system?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  No, I can’t — I’m not going to get in business of
projecting — I — exactly how many people are likely.  All I know is that
we go through these periods, then we run up against a wall, then
something happens where people realize, “Oh, my lord, this is really a
problem,” and they begin to see things.   
  
Look, the fact that a lot of your friends are now saying, “Get
vaccinated,” who were — before were saying, “This is not a problem. 
This is all a Democratic thing.”  With a small “d” and a capital “D.”  I
mean, there’s a lot changing.  People are becoming aware.  The more
aware they become, then we have these surges of people going out and
getting vaccinated —  
  
Q    But what about requiring proof —  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  — and it just keeps building.  
  
Q    I’m sorry, sir.  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  What about what?  
  
Q    What about requiring proof, sir?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Well, that is — there’s two ways to do it, and I think
you’re going to see some institutions doing that.  Like you’re going to
fly abroad, you got to — you’re going to have to have proof.  You’re not
just going to be able to say, “Yeah, I got tested.”  You got to pri- —
provide proof.   
  
My guess is: If we don’t start to make more progress, a lot of
businesses and a lot of enterprises are going to require proof for you
to be able to participate.  
  
In the back.  And then I’m going to take off, shortly here.   
  
Q    What further actions are you going to take to encourage private
businesses to follow this type of model to either require vaccines or
require testing or other preventative procedures?   
  
THE PRESIDENT:  I just did.  And I’m going to keep at it.  I’m going to
be talking about it around the country.  I’m —  
  
Q    Are you — but are you going to reach out to private businesses,
meet with them, try and actively encourage them to follow this model?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Well, I have.  That’s why we have folks from the —
everyone from the Chamber of Commerce to the manufacturers, et cetera. 
So, you know, I am — am I going to call a meeting of every, you know,
business in the country to come to Washington?  And — or go on —  
  
I have made the case repeatedly.  I doubt whether there’s a single,
solitary business that doesn’t understand that I think I think it’s
smart for them to require testing, require — and if you — if you can’t
demonstrate, you can’t prove you’ve been vaccinated, you have to be
tested.  
  
Q  Secretary Austin said he was already considering mandating —  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Yep.  
  
Q    — the vaccine after it was fully approved.  Would you like to see
the mandate go into effect before full approval?  And do you think he’s
open to that?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  I know he’s open to it.  And the question is: When is
the right time to get the most bang for the buck when you do it?  A lot
of this is timing.  And so, I think it’s going to happen, but I — look,
the one thing that you all are politely and appropriately referencing is
that it’s still a temporary approval.  So when does the final approval
come?  It usually takes a lot of — a lot of work to get — to get
there.  
  
I made a commitment I would not tell anyone in the Justice Department
who they should prosecute and I would not tell the health industry that
they — excuse me, the government health entities what they should say
and do.  But my expectation is they’re going to reach that conclusion in
the early fall.   
  
Thank you very much.  
  
Q    Mr. President, one more.  Mr. President, you said — Mr. President,
you said — Mr. President, you said, “If you are fully vaccinated, you no
longer need to wear a mask.”  And it seems —  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  No, I didn’t say that.   
  
Q    You did.  I have the quote.  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  I said if you’re fully vaccinated in an area where you
do not have — well, let me clarify it.  
  
Q    In May, you made it sound like a vaccine was —  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Well, in May, that’s true.  
  
Q    — the ticket to losing the mask forever, and it —  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  That — that is true at the time, because I thought there
were people who were going to understand that getting vaccinated made a
gigantic difference.  And what happen was: A new variant came along,
they didn’t get vaccinated, it was spread more rapidly, and people —
more people were getting sick.  That’s the difference.  
  
Q    How is the First Lady, sir?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  I’m going to find out in a minute.  That’s why I’m
leaving.   
  
5:01 P.M. EDT
