---
category: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-07-21'
modified_time: 2021-07-23 13:25:01-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/07/21/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-before-meeting-with-poll-workers-and-election-officials/
published_time: 2021-07-21 13:23:00-04:00
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris Before Meeting with Poll Workers and Election\_\
  Officials"
---
 
Vice President’s Ceremonial Office  
Eisenhower Executive Office Building

2:47 P.M. EDT  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Well, I want to thank you all for joining us here
today virtually and in person.  I’ve asked that you would join us.  And
I’m honored to have the White House Counsel, Dana Remus, here to have a
very candid and frank discussion about the work, the responsibility, the
commitment, and the challenges of what it means to be the people who, on
the ground, are upholding some of the most important tenets of our
democracy — which is the work that you do and that your colleagues do
every day, especially in election season, but all the days leading up to
it — to ensure that all Americans have an easy and accessible and
available opportunity to exercise the right to vote.  
  
So I’ve asked you all to be here to have that conversation and to also —
to share with me in a — in this environment, meaning in an environment
where you are — you are invited, to talk about the challenges so that we
can uplift your voices as we work on this issue — which is, I believe,
as American as apple pie — the right to defend the American people’s
right to vote.   
  
And, I’ll tell you, I love voting.  When I have voted in person and walk
into — and I voted in — and I voted in an elementary school — in the
neighborhood elementary school, church, the neighborhood senior center. 
And walking into the polling site — and there, the poll workers greet
you with a smile — “Come on in” — and show you where the machines are
and, as technology has changed, you know, help you figure out how to use
the machine; give you a sticker after.   
  
It reminds me of just, you know, what we do to just honor what people do
to exercise their civic duty.  Those are poll workers and, I think, most
Americans’ experience with poll workers.  
  
You’re the people who make elections happen.  And — and why do poll
workers do that work?  Well, I know enough to know — and I’ve talked to
enough poll workers, and I’ve seen the surveys — there are pretty much
three basic reasons that poll workers do their work: Because they want
to ensure that our elections process goes as it should.  Poll workers do
their work because they want to serve their community and because they
enjoy being active in their community.  
  
And poll workers come in every stripe.  They are of every political
party, of every age, ethnicity, gender, but believe in importance of
that process to our country.  
  
And I strongly believe, therefore, we cannot — we dare not — take the
work of poll workers for granted.  And I think we do.  But the work of
poll workers — unencumbered, without intimidation, without threats —
should be a commitment that we all have not only to them to them who
serve, but to our democracy.   
  
And sadly, what we know is that the two components of the right to vote
— one to cast your ballot and the other to make sure your ballot is
counted — are under threat right now.  
  
We saw that poll workers — talked about leading up to the 2020 election
— the most recent, big national election — began to receive threats,
forcing some to have to work around the clock, getting protection —
around-the-clock protection.  
  
Others were threatened and were afraid to go back to their homes because
they were actually threatened to such an extent that they felt unsafe to
be in their personal homes.   
  
And many of these threats came from folks who were — you know, as we
turned out — unhappy with the outcome of the election.   
  
And — however, what we do know — and it is an undisputed fact by those
who know and are informed and possess the facts — that the 2020 Election
was administered under the highest standards and nonpartisan
standards.   
  
So, what we want to do today is have a discussion about how we can
ensure, as we go forward, that the American people have a fair, a
transparent, accessible opportunity to exercise their voice through
their vote.   
  
And as it relates to the work of our administration, we are very proud
that we are really treating this as one of our highest levels of
priority — anything from what the DOJ is doing over there around a task
force to protect election officials and poll workers.  
  
Four months ago, our administration and the President issued orders that
include the order to increase voter access, including encouraging people
to become nonpartisan poll workers. And we are working to stop
anti-voter legislation in the various states.   
  
We are forcefully working to pass the For the People Act and the John
Lewis Voting Rights Act, and working to help ensure that all Americans
know what they get when they vote, to further encourage them to vote
knowing that it will make a difference in their lives.  
  
So, today, I look forward to our conversation.  Again, I want to thank
each of you.  You represent thousands of people who live in all of our
communities, regardless of how we voted in the last election or may vote
in the next election, who really are the best of civic participants and
patriots.   
  
So, thank you all for your work, and I look forward to our
conversation.  
  
Q    Any reaction to House Speaker Pelosi’s decision to reject Banks and
Representative Jordan from the January 6 Commission?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I mean, listen, I — I absolutely respect Speaker Pelosi and
her ability to lead, and there is — and support that.   
  
And there is no question in my mind, or I think most people’s minds,
that the American people deserve to have a thorough, a full, fair, and
transparent process of getting down to what happened on January 6, how
it occurred, who was responsible so that we can make sure that history
does not repeat itself.  That is in the best interest of all
Americans.  
  
2:56 P.M. EDT
