---
tags: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-07-19'
modified_time: 2021-07-19 14:27:37-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/07/19/remarks-by-president-biden-on-the-economy-3/
published_time: 2021-07-19 14:27:36-04:00
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden on the\_Economy"
---
 
11:43 A.M. EDT

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, good morning.  Tomorrow marks exactly six months
since my administration began.  I think it’s a fitting moment to take a
look at our economy — where we were six months ago, what we’ve achieved
since then, and what I believe we’ve — I believe where we’re headed.   
Before I took office, there was a lot of folks out there — a lot of
folks out there making some pretty bold predictions about how things
would turn out.  You might remember some of the predictions.  That if I
became President, we’d, quote, “see a depression the likes of which
we’ve never seen.”  End of quote.   
  
Well, it’s true that the economy was sputtering before I got here,
adding only 60,000 jobs per month for the three months before I was
sworn in.  But now, six months later, we’ve changed that.   
  
We’ve gone from 60,000 jobs per month to 60,000 jobs every three days —
more than 600,000 jobs per month since I took office.  More than 3
million new jobs all told.  That’s the fastest growth, I’m told, at this
point in any administration’s history.  
  
Another prediction — that is my favorite one, I must add — is that if I
got elected, I’d bring the end to capitalism.  (Laughs.)  I never
understood that one, but we’ve heard — we’ve heard it an awful lot. 
Well, in six months into my administration, the U.S. economy has
experienced the highest economic growth rate in nearly 40 years.   
  
And we know we’ve — and now we knew that we needed to launch a war-time
effort to get the — America vaccinated and pass a powerful American
Rescue Plan.   
  
We did both those things.  And now, the forecasters have doubled their
projections for growth this year in the economy to 7 percent or higher.
 In fact, the U.S. is the only developed country in the world where
growth projections today are stronger than they were before the pandemic
hit.   
  
At the same time, companies across the country are giving workers a
raise.  Unusual thing.  (Laughs.)  And the number of new unemployment
claims has been cut by more than half since I took office.   
  
And by the way, two weeks ago, I issued a major executive order
promoting fair and open competition, which is the cornerstone — the
cornerstone of American capitalism, banning non-compete clauses that
suppress workers’ wages; lowering the price of things like hearing aids,
prescription drugs, Internet service; along with dozens of other
actions.   
  
Folks, it turns out capitalism is alive and very well.  We’re making
serious progress to ensure that it works the way it’s supposed to work:
for the good of the American people.  
  
So, for all those predictions of doom and gloom, six months in, here’s
where we stand: record growth, record job creation, workers getting
hard-earned breaks.   
  
Look, we’ve brought this economy back from the brink.  And we designed
our strategy not only to provide for a temporary boost, but to lay the
foundation for a long-term boom that brings everyone along.  
  
You know, that’s why we designed the American Rescue Plan to help not
just all those — everyone at once, but over the course of a full year
and beyond so we could help families and small businesses weather the
ups and downs of our — as the economy recovers from an historic
pandemic.  And I — there are going to be ups and downs.  
  
We saw a great example of that just last week.  For the first time,
monthly payments began going out to nearly every working family raising
a child in the United States of America.  Thanks to the expanded Child
Tax Credit in the American Rescue Plan: $300 a month going out for each
child under the age of six, and $250 for every child 6 through 17, every
month for the next six months, with more coming in the spring.   
  
That money is a game-changer.  For some, it’s a lifesaver.  Think of the
single mom, struggling to put food on the table each month.  The parent
who has to tell their kid, “I’m sorry, honey, but we can’t afford those
dance classes or the sports team you want to play on this fall.  We
can’t do it.”  You know, they can’t wait for the credit against their
taxes to be coming next year as a tax credit.  They need cash in their
pockets today.   
  
For families with the least, this money will do the most — dramatically
reducing child poverty in America.  And for millions of middle-class
families, it will give them a little bit of breathing room every month. 
That’s just one example of how we’re building an economy from the bottom
up and the middle out.    
  
But despite that progress, we cannot afford to be complacent.  We know
that our economic recovery hinges on getting the pandemic under
control.   
  
You know, and by fully vaccinating 160 million Americans, 80 percent of
our seniors, we’ve fundamentally changed the course of the pandemic —
from one that threatens all Americans, to a disease that has the most
severe impacts only on the unvaccinated people in the country.  But we
can’t let up, especially since and because of the Delta variant, which
is more transmis- — more transmissible and more dangerous.   
  
Unfortunately, cases are now rising, particularly in communities with
very low vaccination rates.  Just four states account for nearly 40
percent — four states, 40 percent of all cases last week.  Virtually all
hospitalizations and deaths are occurring among unvaccinated Americans. 
These tragedies are avoidable.   
  
The data couldn’t be clearer: If you’re fully vaccinated, you have a
high degree of protection against severe illness, hospitalization, and
death.  If you’re unvaccinated, you are not protected. So, please,
please get vaccinated.  Get vaccinated now.  It works.  It’s safe.  It’s
free.  It’s convenient.  
  
You know, this virus doesn’t have to hold you back any longer.  It
doesn’t have to hold our economy back any longer.  But the only way we
put it behind us is if more Americans get vaccinated.  
  
We also know that as our economy has come roaring back, we’ve seen some
price increases.  Some folks have raised worries that this could be a
sign of persistent inflation.  But that’s not our view.  Our experts
believe and the data shows that most of the price increases we’ve seen
are — were expected and expected to be temporary.  
  
The reality is, you can’t flip the global economic light back on and not
expect this to happen.  As demand returns, there’s going to be global
supply chain challenges.  We’ve seen that in semi-conductors, which are
used in automobiles.  That global shortage has slowed vehicle
production, creating a temporary spike in car prices.  That’s a real
challenge.  And my administration is doing everything we can to address
it.  But again, these disruptions are temporary.   
  
Lumber prices are another example.  They spiked early in our recovery,
but in recent weeks, they’ve began to fall — they’ve fallen by more than
50 percent.   
  
In the hospitality industry, prices are returning to where they used to
be.  Economists call all of these things “transitory effects.”  And they
account for about 60 percent of the price increases we’ve seen over the
last few months.   
  
Now, I want to be clear: My administration understands that if we were
to ever experience unchecked inflation over the long term that would
pose real challenges to our economy.  So while we’re confident that
isn’t what we are seeing today, we’re going to remain vigilant about any
response that is needed.   
  
As I made clear to Chairman Powell of the Federal Reserve when we met
recently, the Fed is independent.  It should take whatever steps it
deems necessary to support a strong, durable economic recovery.  But
whatever different views some might have on current price increases, we
should be united on one thing: passage of the Bipartisan Infrastructure
Framework, which we shook hands on.  We shook hands on it.  And my Build
Back Better plan will be a force for achieving lower prices for
Americans looking ahead.  It’s another reason why these investments are
so important.   
  
If we make a prudent, multi-year investments in better roads, bridges,
transit systems, and high-speed Internet, and a modern, resilient
electric grid, here’s what will happen: It breaks up the bottlenecks in
our economy.  Goods get to consumers more rapidly and less expensively. 
Small businesses create and innovate much more seamlessly.  If we
increase the availability of quality, affordable childcare, eldercare,
paid leave, more people will enter the workforce.   
  
These steps will enhance our productivity — raising wages without
raising prices.  That won’t increase inflation.  It will take the
pressure off of inflation, give a boost to our workforce, which leads to
lower prices in the years ahead.   
  
So, if your primary concern right now is inflation, you should be even
more enthusiastic about this plan.  And as we promote — as we promote
fair competition in our economy through the executive order I mentioned,
it will drive down prices even further.  New businesses will get in the
game, competing against those giant corporations who have been free to
ramp up prices because they haven’t had any real competition.  
  
Look, the bottom line is this: What the best companies do and what we as
a country should do is make smart, sustainable investments with
appropriate financing to make this nation more productive, to advance
America’s leadership on clean energy to win the jobs of the future while
meeting the threat of climate change, and to ensure that all working
Americans benefit from the growth they’re helping produce.   
  
The independent experts who have analyzed my plans have found that they
would do just that: expand output and enable millions of Americans to
enter the labor workforce now, just this year — not just for the next —
but not just this year, but for decades in the future.  It’s not
temporary.  
  
This is the best strategy to create millions of jobs and lift up the
middle-class families and grow wages and keep prices affordable for the
long term.   
  
What we can’t do is go back to the same old trickle-down theories that
gave us nearly $2 trillion in deficit-financed corporate tax giveaways
that did nothing to make our economy more productive or resilient.  The
same people who cheered on that approach are now telling us it isn’t
\[is\] a problem if big companies have actually to compete for workers
and offer them a fair wage with some dignity.  
  
I could not disagree more.  We can’t go back to the old, failed
thinking.  We need to grow the economy from the bottom up and the middle
out, as I’ve said before.   
  
The investments I’m proposing are investments the American people want
and investments that our country needs.  And if we get this done, a wide
range of independent forecasters project that it will have an incredibly
significant impact on GDP and jobs — good-paying jobs with prevailing
wages.  And the majority of these jobs will go to people without a
college degree.   
  
I’ve said it before, and it’s true: This is a blue-collar blueprint for
building an American economy back.  Simply put, we can’t afford not to
make these investments.  And we’re going to pay for them responsibly as
well, by ensuring that our largest corporations and the very wealthiest
among us pay their fair share by reforming our international tax system
with a minimum global tax, which we’ve led the world to agree to.   
  
Let me close with this: When I arrived in office, it had been a long
time since the government had worked for the people.  Things had been
great for big corporations and folks at the top.  Those 55 major
corporations that paid zero in income tax while making billions in
profits, they had no complaints.   
  
But when I took office, I made a commitment — a commitment to the
American people that we were going to change that paradigm so working
families could have a fighting chance again to get a good education; to
get a good job and a raise; to take care of the elderly parent or the
child with the disability and still be able to go out and earn a good
living; to stop losing hours of their lives stuck in traffic because the
streets are crumbling; or waiting for slow, spotty Internet to connect
them to the world.   
  
That’s what the economy we’re building is all about.  That’s why we
passed the American Rescue Plan.  And that’s why we need the investment
of the Bipartisan Infrastructure Framework and my Build Back Better
plan.   
  
Our economy has come a long way over the last six months.  We can’t slow
down now.  We can make this boom we’re experiencing today one that will
ensure that all Americans have an opportunity to share in it for years
to come.  And we can show the world that American democracy can deliver
for the people.   
  
I look forward to continuing to build this economy.  And I’m incredibly
optimistic about what we’re going to be able to build together in the
next six months and the years to come.   
  
Thank you all for listening.  May God bless you.  And I’ll take a few
questions.  
  
Q    Mr. President, you said last week that companies and platforms like
Facebook are “killing people” by letting them —  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Let me (inaudible) precisely what I said.  I’m glad you
asked me that question.  One, I had just read that — on the Facebook —
Facebook pointed out that — it was pointed out that Facebook, of all the
misinformation, 60 percent of that misinformation came from 12
individuals.  That’s what the article said.   
  
So, I was asked that question about what do I think is happening. 
Facebook isn’t killing people; these 12 people who are out there giving
misinformation — anyone listening to it is getting hurt by it.  It’s
killing people.  It’s bad information.  
  
My hope is that Facebook, instead of taking it personally — that somehow
I’m saying Facebook is killing people — that they would do something
about the misinformation — the outrageous informa- — misinformation
about the vaccine.  That’s what I meant.  
  
Q    Have they done enough in your opinion to stop —  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  I haven’t — to be completely honest with you, I don’t
know that they did anything today.  Up to — over the weekend, I don’t
think they had.  But I don’t know.  I don’t know the answer to that
question.  
  
Q    Will you hold them accountable if they don’t do more to stop the
spread?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  I’m — when you say “hold accountable,” I just want to —
I’m not trying to hold people account- — I’m trying make people to look
at themselves.  Look in the mirror.  Think about that misinformation
going to your son, your daughter, your relatives, someone you love. 
That’s what I’m asking.  
  
All the way in the back.   
  
Q    Yes, thank you, Mr. President.  At what point would you consider
inflation unchecked to a point at which you would either consider taking
action or you would want to see the Fed take action?  
  
And secondly, why do you believe that the budget bill is appropriate
legislation for a pathway to citizenship?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Well, first of all, I think we need to find pathways to
citizenship.  The budget bill is an appropriate way to get around the
filibuster to be able to make a judgment as to whether or not they
should have a pathway.  That’s for the Parli- — Parliamentarian to
decide, though — not for Joe Biden to decide.  
  
Your first ques- — part of the question was?  
  
Q    It was on inflation.  You mentioned unchecked inflation.  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.  There’s nobody suggesting there’s unchecked
inflation on the way — no serious economist.  That’s totally
different.   
  
I mean, look, the stock market is higher than it has been in all of
history, even went down this month — even down this month.  
  
Now, I don’t look at the stock market as a means by which to judge the
economy like my predecessor did.  But he’d be very — he’d be talking to
you every day for the last five months about how the stock market is so
high — higher than any time in history, still higher than any time in
history.  
  
So, that’s not how I judge whether or not we have economic growth.  
Q    Mr. President, on China and cyber hacking —  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  She jumps up before you do.  (Laughter.)  
  
Q    Effectively, your administration is naming and shaming China, but
no sanctions.  Why?  And is that effective enough?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  They’re still determining exactly what happened.  The
investigation is not finished.   
  
Thank you all very much.  
  
Q    On China real quick — on China real quick: What is your
understanding of the biggest difference between what they’ve done versus
what Russia has done in terms of cyber hacking?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  That’d take a longer explanation.  
  
Q    We have all the time in the world.  What is it?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  No, we don’t.  I have to go see the King of Jordan.   
  
Look, to the best of my knowledge — and I’m getting a report tomorrow
morning on this, a detailed report — my understanding is that the
Chinese government, not unlike the Russian government, is not doing this
themselves, but are protecting those who are doing it and maybe even
accommodating them being able to do it.  That may be the difference.   
  
Thank you.  
  
Q    Should the Olympics go forward, Mr. President?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  They are.  
  
12:02 P.M. EDT
