---
category: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-07-12'
modified_time: 2021-07-29 17:36:09-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/07/12/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-before-air-force-two-departure/
published_time: 2021-07-12 15:46:00-04:00
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris Before Air Force Two\_Departure"
---
 
Detroit Metropolitan Airport  
Detroit, Michigan

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  It was a good day in Detroit, and it’s always great
to be back here.  We had some very important conversations.  Obviously,
one was about voting and what we know is happening around the country
and the concern that people have around the country about an active
effort to suppress the vote. 

And so, we had a long conversation about that with community leaders and
people who have been working on the ground to remind voters, to remind
people that their voice is important and that they are at risk of having
a legislative bodies impede their right to vote if we don’t stand up and
understand what’s happening, see it for what it is, and then, obviously,
be more engaged.

On the issue of vaccinations, I’m very concerned — in many parts of our
country, including in Michigan, that we still have so many folks who
have not been vaccinated.  So the point of the trip also was to just
remind people that vaccines are safe, they’re free, and they’ll save
lives.

I’ve begun to talk more about also the significance of just looking at
the facts, which is that, when people are hospitalized, the vast
majority of people who are in the hospital right now for COVID-19 are
unvaccinated.  The vast majority of people we’ve been seeing dying from
COVID-19 — unvaccinated.

And so, we’re going to continue to push out the message that the vaccine
will save your life.  Not only that, you know, I — it’s “love thy
neighbor.”  You all heard me talk about that, but also “love your
family.”

When we know that getting vaccinated means that you are very, very, very
— almost ensured that you will not be hospitalized or die from COVID-19,
why wouldn’t you do that on the one hand, versus, on the other hand,
risking contracting this virus so that your family and your friends will
have to sit by your bedside in a hospital or, worse yet, mourn your
loss.  Like, let’s not do that to family and friends.  Let’s think about
this in the context of the loss that occurs because of this virus.

So that was the conversation of today.  And, of course, I’ll come back
to Detroit and to Michigan; it’s an important state for many reasons. 

Q    Madam Vice President, how do you signal to activists on the ground
the importance of voting rights, given the current debate about the
filibuster and not changing it or not modifying it?

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Well, it’s trips like this — I’ve been traveling
around the country, talking to folks on the ground — activists — to hear
from them about what’s actually happening on the ground — how it’s
playing out. 

There’s so much work that we will do and are committed to doing that’s
about everything from supporting the legislation in Washington, D.C. —
the two bills — of course, the John Lewis Voting Rights Act and For the
People Act.

But it is also about making and increasing awareness for folks about
what’s happening in their states.  Again, I applaud the effort of the
Texas legislators who are standing in the way of a blatant attempt to
suppress the vote. 

There’s also the piece that is about about increasing voter engagement
and, eventually and even now, that’s going to be about voter
registration.  There’s the piece that’s about voter protection.  And we
are working on all fronts. 

This will require a multilateral approach to the issue, which is
everything from what people are doing around litigation, to legislation,
to organizing, community building — all of that.  And — and there are
going to be many phases to this approach.

Q    Will you meet with the Texas legislators if they come to D.C.?

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  I don’t know.  I’ve been here.  But I’ll keep you
posted.

END
