---
tags: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-07-13'
modified_time: 2021-07-14 17:43:03-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/07/13/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-at-whitmer-for-michigan-finance-event/
published_time: 2021-07-13 17:41:00-04:00
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris at \u201CWhitmer for Michigan\u201D Finance\_\
  Event"
---
 
TCF Center  
Detroit, Michigan

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Greetings, everyone.  I am so honored, as I’ve
always been, to share a stage with Gretchen Whitmer.  And she and I have
shared many stages over a great amount of time through the — some of the
highs and the lows of what our country has experienced.  And I will tell
you what I know you all know, as longstanding friends and supporters of
hers: She’s an extraordinary, courageous, brilliant, committed leader
not only for Michigan, but she is a national leader.  
  
And I was with the President this morning in the Oval Office for a
couple of meetings, and I said, “I’m heading to Detroit,” and he said,
“Give Gretchen all my best and remind everyone of what you and I…” —
meaning he and I — “…have talked about,” which is the President and I
stand with Gretchen Whitmer.  We stand with her.  (Applause.)  And we
will continue to stand with her.  
  
Her leadership has been the leadership during some of the most difficult
times our country could imagine — extraordinary — during this pandemic
where we saw an incredible loss of life, a loss of jobs, a loss of
hope.  And she never — she never waned.  She got up every morning — she
gets up every morning fighting for the people of Michigan.  
  
I will tell you, she made many a call to the President and to me during
this time, talking about the needs of the people of Michigan.  She is
one of those rare leaders who puts what’s right ahead of what’s popular
to represent the people as they should expect a governor to represent
them.  That’s who she is, and that makes some people really fearful
because that’s some strong, powerful stuff to be that kind of leader. 
(Applause.)   
  
  
And so, this is not going to be an easy election, and that’s why I’m
here this early in the process to say we need you to do everything you
can to reelect her as governor of this beautiful, great state and put
everything you have into it.  
  
When I was here — the last time I was here was actually Election Day
2020, and we were together that day.  And I said then what remains true:
Michigan is a bellwether for the United States.  What you do here, what
happens here is a reflection of who we are as a country.   
  
And when we’ve got a governor of a state — the chief executive of the
state — who concerns herself, yes, everything from what we need to do to
fix the darn you-know-what to — (laughter) — and then you could insert
whatever words you choose, right? — to what is important in terms of the
future of working people in America, the future of the workforce, the
future of families.  
  
One of the reasons that we are partners with this governor — with your
governor — and will continue to be is, on the issue of COVID, about an
embrace of science and the importance of talking fact, and then having
an administration who is thinking about and is smart around what we do
to get the information to people, much less get the vaccine to
people.   
  
Why are we committed to this governor?  Because she understands that
when we did what we did with the Child Tax Credit, we will lift half of
America’s children out of poverty, and she stands for lifting children
out of poverty.  When — (applause).  
  
And isn’t it — isn’t it an interesting thing that I have to say that
anyone stands with lis- — lifting children out of poverty?  But it’s not
actually a given.  It’s not actually a given.  
  
She supports the Child Tax Credit and the expansion of it,
infrastructure.  She was one of the people that we consulted in thinking
about what would be in our package — that is now the subject of
bipartisan support — around what we need to do to uplift, upgrade
America’s infrastructure, which is not only about roads and bridges, but
it’s also about high-speed Internet — something that she knows well
because, of course, this state is Detroit, and it is urban areas and it
is rural areas.  
  
We have talked about what we need to do to support childcare workers. 
Understanding — she and I have talked about it — women in the workforce,
so many who had to leave during the course of the pandemic.  Childcare
remaining one of the biggest barriers to women not only going back to
work, but ever entering the workforce or staying in the workforce, even
before the pandemic.  These are the issues that we will continue to work
with her on.  
  
And so, I am here to thank you all, but to say that, “Let’s make sure
that we are committed, as she is, to the work that has yet to be done.” 
She is committed and determined to deliver results, decisive in a
crisis.  She is ambitious about the future.  And she sees with an
incredible amount — and this is one of the things, Gretchen, I’ve always
admired about you: You maintain fight while you also maintain an
incredible sense of optimism.  You — that’s really who you are; that’s
your nature.  I — I really — I noticed that from the very first time
that we had a conversation about what it means to hold elected office
and to represent the people.   
  
And that’s the kind of leadership we want.  That’s the kind of
leadership we need.  
  
So, I want to thank you all again.  November 8th, 2022, seems like a
long way off, but it’s practically around the corner.  And as we all
know, right now, you know, people are excited about the fact that we
might see light at the end of the tunnel in terms of the pandemic, and
it’s summer, and folks have a lot of things that are on their mind, a
lot of priorities, and they may not be thinking much about the election
right now, but we need to remind people of what’s at stake.   
  
And there’s so much at stake and elections matter.  Elections matter. 
And who is the governor of the great state of Michigan matters to the
people of this state and the people of our country.  
  
So, I will close where I started, which is to say thank you all for the
support you’re giving and the pledge, I know, for the continuing support
to see this through.  Let’s make sure we talk to everyone we know and we
remind them that their voice matters, their vote matters, their
participation matters, and that Governor Gretchen Whitmer matters.  
  
Thank you all.  
