---
tags: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-07-02'
modified_time: 2021-07-02 19:04:35-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/07/02/remarks-by-president-biden-at-the-2021-national-education-association-annual-meeting/
published_time: 2021-07-02 19:13:00-04:00
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden at the 2021 National Education Association Annual\_\
  Meeting"
---
 
Walter E. Washington Convention Center  
Washington, D.C.

5:19 P.M. EDT  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Hello, everyone.  They tell me there are a few people
out there watching.  (Laughter.)   
  
MS. PRINGLE:  A couple thousand.

THE PRESIDENT:  A couple thousand.  
  
But, look, before I begin my formal comments, as Jill and your president
spoke, it reminded me of two things.  One is that because of your help,
because we were able to pass the American Rescue Plan, we’re able to get
millions of shots in people’s arms and provide vaccines around the world
and change the circumstances.   
  
This week — this Friday — they announced the new employment figures. 
Another 800-and-some-thousand jobs created this week.  We’ve now created
more jobs since you got me sworn in than any president in American
history in the same timeframe.   
  
We are in a situation where we are doing things that I think are going
to fundamentally change the trajectory of this country.  I told you a
long time ago: It’s not just the NEA and unions; it’s about building
America from the middle up and the middle out, not trickling down. 
There’s a lot — a lot we can do.  A lot more we can do.  
  
And, folks, you know, the projected growth rate, before we started — I
just was doing this earlier this morning — was to be half of what it is
now.  It’s expected to be over 7.2 percent the economy is going to grow
this year.  That means thousands and thousands and thousands and
millions of jobs.  And we’re just getting started.  
  
So I want to thank you, Madam President, and congratulate you on your
first representative assembly of the NEA.  (Applause.)    
  
And Jill and I wanted to congratulate you all on the 100th anniversary
of this convening.  And notwithstanding rumors, I was not at the first
convening.  (Laughter.)  
  
The NEA is one of America’s indispensable organizations.  I’m not just
saying that because the First Lady is a member.  And, by the way, I
noticed — I noticed that what you all — I knew what you all were going
through.  Jill taught full-time this semester.  Full-time.  I watched
Jill getting ready to teach her classes.   
  
And going back to school herself, learning how to work online — and
rapidly work online — and to teach online, it gave me an appreciation
firsthand that I thought I had, but I wouldn’t have had had I not seen
it.  And then going out and teaching — she was working four or five
hours a day, getting ready to teach, putting her lesson plans together a
different — a different way.  
  
And you all went through that.  All of you went through that.  
  
And again, I’m not saying this because of something Jill — you know, I
would — the truth: If I didn’t support the NEA, I’d be sleeping in the
Lincoln Bedroom alone.  But — and that’s not where we sleep.  We don’t
sleep in the Lincoln Bedroom.  (Laughs.)  I’d be sent down to it.  
  
But, you know, look, as Jill always says: Teaching is not what she does,
it’s who she is.  It’s who all of you are.  Our children are the kite
strings upon which our national ambitions are lifted aloft.  And your
profession — your profession helps them believe they can do anything.  
  
For that, and so much more, we just wanted to thank you. Thank you all
for what you do and what you continue to do.  
  
And, President Pringle, you and I have something in common:  We both
took our current roles at a time of incredible challenge and incredible
opportunity.  
  
Over the last year, the entire country has witnessed the extraordinary
dedication and resolve of the NEA members — teachers, professionals, who
had to be not just educators, but tech support, social workers, often
while trying to take care of their own children.   
  
Other public employees who kept vital services up and running.  I saw
the bus drivers dropping off meals instead of picking up kids.  Support
staff had to become sanitation experts, making sure school buildings
were safe.  And tech experts making sure everyone could connect to the
Internet from home.  
  
You know, there’s been so much heroic work to help children stay
connected to school and to each other.  The American people saw it. 
They get it.  And they understand what you’ve been saying for years:
that you are professionals, all of you.  All of you.  All of us have a
responsibility to make sure that you have what you need to educate our
children safely, equitably, and well.   
  
That’s why I made it a priority to get educators vaccinated and reopen
schools as quickly as possible.  Nationwide, 84 percent of K-through-12
educators and school staff are fully vaccinated, and they were by the
end of May.  Even more have gotten the vaccination since — the vaccine
since.  
  
But as I’ve said many times, it’s not enough just to get back to
normal.  We have to build back better than ever, especially our
education system.  
  
That’s why the American Rescue Plan made such historic investments.  It
was $1.9 trillion, and people said we could never get it passed.  With
your help, we did, and we transformed the country — began to transform
the country — providing funding for state and local governors and school
districts to make sure schools are safe and to keep you on the job and
in the classrooms.  Funding for summer learning and tutoring programs
and hiring nurses and counselors.  
  
Now we have an opportunity to make the game-changing investments for
educators, students, and families, and make it even better.  
  
We’re in a competition in the 21st century — a worldwide competition. 
And as Jill says often, “Any country that out-educates us is going to
out-compete us.”  We have to build for the 21st century because the rest
of the world is not sitting around and waiting.  
  
The bipartisan infrastructure agreement we just reached is going to
deliver reliable high-speed Internet to every American.  Every single
American.  And they’re going to be affordable, in rural and in urban
areas.  
  
Of the many things — of the many tough images this past year were
children sitting in cars in fast-food parking lots because it was the
only place they could get a Wi-Fi connection for remote schooling.  
  
If we didn’t know — if we didn’t know it before, we do now: High-speed
Internet is essential like electric and clean air — like electricity and
clean water.  
  
And speaking of clean water, this agreement that we put together will
put Americans to work in good-paying union jobs, replacing 100 percent
of lead water pipes in this country.  One hundred percent.  
  
Right now, there are 400,000 schools — and some of you teach in them —
400,000 schools and childcare centers with lead pipes.  We know even
that low levels of lead can cause behavior and learning problems in
children, impairing their growth.  
  
This deal contains the largest investment in clean drinking water in
American history.  It would end the threat of lead-contamination —
contaminated water once and for all.  
  
My American Families Plan — which we’re now trying to get done as well —
calls for an historic investment in human infrastructure; guaranteeing
four additional years of public education for everyone, starting as
early as we can; universal high-quality preschool for three- and
four-year-olds.  And all the data shows how that increases their
prospect, no matter what environment they come from, to do better and
make it through school.  Two years of free community college.  And
high-quality, affordable childcare for working families.  
  
It would no longer cost — excuse me, it would lower the cost of
lower-income — for lower-income students going to school — the Pell
grants.  We’d provide an additional mil- — 1.5 — $1,500 in Pell
grants.  
  
It will also make a $9 billion investment in educators so we can address
teacher shortages, diversify our pipeline of teachers, and improve
teacher training and teacher mentoring.  And, critically, it would
extend and expanded the Child Tax Credit, which will significantly
benefit working families.  
  
What that means: Instead of deducting $2,000 per child off the bottom
line of your taxes, –which doesn’t do too much for families who don’t
have a big tax bill to begin with — pretty soon, before this month is
out, families are going to get a significant check.  For every child
under the age of six, you’ll get $3,600 per child.  For every child 6 to
17, you’ll get $3,000 — not as a credit against your taxes that a lot of
educators and school staff aren’t really going to feel.  You’ll get
cash.  Cash.  
  
Starting the middle of this month, you’ll start to get monthly payments
between now and the end of the year.  For example, if you have one
child, and you’re going to get — you’re going to get $3,600.  Between
now and January, you’ll get $1,800 of that on a monthly basis between
now and January.  And between January and December, you’ll get the other
$1,800.  
  
Folks, this is a major tax break for working families, and my family
plan will extend it for five years.  The very — this year’s plan is
estimated to cut child poverty in half.  In half.  The Child
Tax <s>Care</s> \[Credit\].  
  
So, look, folks — (applause) — I’m also working with Congress to support
$100 billion in school infrastructure investments, making sure that our
schools are safe, that you have the technology you need to prepare for
students of the future — something that I’ve always cared deeply
about.  
  
My budget invests $20 billion more in Title I schools.  No student — no
student’s education should depend on their ZIP code.  It would represent
a historic effort to close the funding gap between rich and poor
districts.  
  
And one of the first things that funding will be used for is to help
educators in those schools get the raises they deserve and the resources
they need.  (Applause.)  
  
And, by the way, if I’d note, this isn’t just — it’s not that I’m trying
to be nice.  This is absolutely necessary — necessary if we’re going to
compete in the 21st century.  Think about it: The idea that we have a
large portion of our student population living in ZIP codes where they
cannot afford the kind of education and can’t pay the teachers enough in
those schools to educate them, it makes no sense.  The people that are
going to benefit the most from this is corporate America and businesses
because they’re going to have a better-educated public, better-educated
students.   
  
Your union and teachers’ protests across the country made it clear that
you deserve more than praise.  You deserve a raise, not just praise. 
(Applause.)  
  
And, folks, every parent in this country who spent the last year helping
educate their children at home understand you deserve a raise. 
(Applause.)  They figured it out.  (Applause.)  No, I’m serious.  Think
about it.  Think about it.  
It was the ultimate education of the public going through this
pandemic.   
  
My budget would also allow us to invest more in counselors, social
workers, community schools, nutrition support, and a whole lot more. 
(Applause.)  
  
I have a lot more to say, but I’m going to get the hook from Jill if I
keep talking.  (Laughter.)   
  
No, but let’s — so let me close with this: On Sunday, we’ll celebrate
our independence as a nation, as well as our progress against the
virus.  In the days ahead, we have a chance to make another beginning —
the beginning of a stronger, fairer education system.  But it can’t be
done — it can’t be done with you.  We can’t do it alone.  We need to
keep getting the word out about the opportunities that lies ahead for
us.   
  
So, let’s make this happen together.  I really mean this.  This is a —
this is a campaign in and of itself.  Jill and I are proud of you. 
We’re grateful to you.  And I really mean that.   
  
You know, I think about it: Why would a kid like me, from Scranton and
Claymont, Delaware, be standing here as your President of the United
States of America, were it not for the people who educated me, the
teachers I had?  It made a difference.  They took a stuttering kid who
couldn’t — couldn’t — couldn’t — couldn’t speak very well in school, was
scared to death to be called on to read out loud.   
  
And they nurtured me: “Joey — you’re a very smart boy, Joey.  Just take
your time.  Don’t let that get in your way, Joey.”  I’m serious.  I
think what you all underestimate, beyond the teaching of reading and
writing, adding and subtracting: You give so many kids confidence.   
  
You let them believe in themselves.  I’m not joking.  Think about
yourself, your own — you can name the teachers who helped change your
life.  You can name them.  I can still name them.  I know who the — the
people who made a difference in my life, made me believe I could do
anything.  When, if you looked at the background, there’s no reason why,
coming from my circumstance.  We weren’t — it wasn’t poverty, just —
just making it.  But you did it, and don’t forget it.  Don’t forget how
much difference you make.   
  
Those of you who’ve been teaching a while, you have experiences like
Jill has.  People will come up to Jill and say, “Mrs. Biden, you had — I
had your English class.  I can’t thank you…”  “What are you doing now?” 
“Well, I have my doctorate, and I’m teaching at such and such.”  Or a
fireman putting out a fire in our home: “Mrs. Biden…” — as his gear
coming out of a house that almost burned down — “Mrs. Biden, you had
me.  You had me as a teacher, and you taught me English.”  Think of the
people’s lives you change.   
  
You know, I’m supposed to stop but I’m going to say a couple more things
— (laughter) — because I — I really don’t think you understand or you
appreciate just how important you are.  I really mean it.  I genuinely
mean it from the bottom of my heart.  
  
I was overseas at what they call the G7 — the biggest economies in the
world — and then with the NATO people, and then I met with Putin.  And
in the process of doing all of this, I was asked at one point, “Can you
define America for me?”  And I give you my word to this.  I said, “Yes…”
— and I believe this, and I repeated it again today as I swore in new
citizens, young people in the White House.  I said, “I can define
America” — and I mean it from the bottom of my heart — “in one word:
possibilities.”  It’s the only nation in the world where we think we can
do anything.   
  
Now, why do we think that?  Not a joke.  Why do we think that?  Why do
we think anything is possible?  It’s not just the system.  It’s the
people who look out for us.   
  
I’ve said a hundred times, you control — you, the teachers, determine
what this country is going to look like.  You are the people who take
our children and nurture them.  As I said many times, they’re the kite
string — you’re the kite strings upon which we lift our national
ambitions aloft.  So, have — understand how important you are.  
  
And, by the way, understand how important that cafeteria worker is who
looks at that kid who’s a little bit ashamed that they have no food at
home and says, “Honey, here.  Here is a little more.  Take some more.” 
Or packs a little bag without telling them after they have lunch and
slips it to them.  You provide their dignity.  You give them dignity.  
  
So, I really mean it: I think you’re the single most important component
of America’s future.  So don’t give up on yourselves, and I know you
won’t.  Don’t give up on these kids.  Give them hope.  Make them believe
in themselves.  And make sure when they’re much older, and they say,
“How’d you get here?”  “Because Mrs. Jones or Mr. Williams,” or
whomever.  Because it will be done.  It will be done.  
  
Thank you.  Thank you for all you do, all you give, and all that you are
to your students and to the nation.  You know you affect your students,
but it’s to the nation.  
  
God bless you all, and may God protect our troops.  Thank you so much. 
(Applause.)

5:38 P.M. EDT
