---
date: '2023-07-29'
published_time: 2023-07-29 09:53:01-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/07/29/remarks-by-president-biden-at-a-campaign-reception-freeport-me/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden at a Campaign Reception | Freeport,\_ME"
---
 
Private Residence  
Freeport, Maine

4:23 P.M. EDT  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Thank you very much.  Let me begin with three comments. 
One, this is a busman’s holiday for my colleagues I serve with.  Thank
you for being here.  The worst thing to have to do is come in here
another — pick your same party you agree with — your own party and hear
somebody.  Thank you very much.  It’s above and beyond the call.   
  
And secondly, to all the kids here, I want to make clear: If nothing
hap- — after this is over, if you all come up, I’m going to give you
some money to make your mom and dad to take you to Dairy Queen. 
(Laughter.)  Okay?  All right?  Okay.  You all think I’m kidding; I’m
not.  Can you imagine when you were 10 years old — “We’re going to go
spend the afternoon — we’re going to get dressed to — come on, honey.” 
Anyway, thank you, thank you, thank you.  Only thing that could be
worse: You could — your mom or dad could be a president, then you would
have to show up at all this stuff.  (Laughter.)  
  
And the third thing I’d like to say is that — you know, one of the
reasons I’m still — it may — it may hurt his reputation, but all kidding
aside, one of the reasons why I am still in politics was because of a
Maine guy named Ed Muskie.  Not a joke.  (Applause.)   
  
Ed Muskie and Teddy Kennedy and the guy from South Carolina who was the
United States senator — because I had just been elected to the Senate. 
I was 29 years old.  I wasn’t old enough to be sworn in.  I had to wait
until I could be sworn in.  But I had to start to hire staff.  
  
So, I was down in Washington using Teddy Kennedy’s Whip office so I
could interview people.  And I got a phone call saying my wife and
daughter had just been killed.  And — and so, I decided — my — my
brother, who’s five years younger, was my finance chair.  And, by the
way, I was listed, for 36 years, the poorest man in Congress.  So, he
needed a lot of help.  (Laughter.)   
  
But all kidding aside, we were — I wanted him to talk to the Democratic
governor who had just been elected so he would appoint someone — because
I’m the first moderate-to-liberal member from the Democratic Party.   
  
Our state is — was a border state.  We — we were — we were segregated by
law.  We were a slave state.  And all the vestiges left over are still
there.  And so, I was the first “progressive” — quote, unquote — today
we would say.  But back in those days, I was considered, compared to the
Democratic Party —  
  
The Democratic governor had an opportunity, Gov, to decide whether he or
she wanted to be member of the Northeast Democratic Coalition —
Governors’ Conference or the Southern Governors’.  And most governors
picked to be part of the Southern Governors’ Conference.   
  
And so, two thirds of the state, as Angus knows, in the Delmarva
Peninsula talk at ‘cha like this — a lot of good ‘ol boys.  (Laughter.) 
No, I’m serious.  
  
And — and so, I asked my brother if he would talk to the governor and
pick someone in my place.  And my sister is my best friend and managed
all my campaigns.  She’s three years younger.  We are two years apart in
school.  She graduated; I graduated from the same university, two years
apart.  She graduated Phi Beta Kappa; I graduated.  (Laughter.)  She —
no, I’m not joking.  She managed all the — my campaigns.  
  
My point is this: that these men probably saved my sanity by convincing
me to stay.  What the argument was: Just come and stay — just come and
stay for six months.  Help us organize.  We had 58 Democratic senators. 
They didn’t need anybody to organize.  We had whoever — it could be a
Democratic senator (inaudible) at my place.   
  
But Ed Muskie went out of his way for me — all the little things.  One
of the most important men in the Congress, who should have been
president — one of the most important men in the Congress.  He would
just spend time with me.   
  
He would come by my office, and I — for example, I wouldn’t go to — I
didn’t go over and meet and eat with the senators in the dining room.  I
would just stay — I didn’t want to — I just wanted to get — just not get
engaged.  And he just went out of his way.   
  
And I look back on it.  And you probably help people like that, like I
was, many times yourselves, but it mattered.  It mattered.  My two boys
survived.  My family — I had great help with my family, my extended
family.   
  
But Ed Muskie was a man of enormous, enormous, enormous character.  And
he had a guy named Hathaway with him that I came along — we came along
together and became close friends.  
  
I’ve always thought of Maine as — it’s going to sound bizarre to say
this, but as a virtuous place.  I’m not joking.  It was a place that
everybody seemed to have sort of just basic — they disagreed.  Like a
young woman — I was just — did an event — a speaking event in Maine. 
And I was talking about the economy.  And afterwards, I’m going out,
shaking hands with people.  And  a lovely young woman — looked to be —
she was in her early 30s — was a state rep.  She had her pin on.  And I
said, “Well, you guys passed the legislation for” — yes, for —  
  
AUDIENCE MEMBER:  Family leave.  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Family leave, thank you.  For family leave.  And she
said, “Oh, I voted against it.”  (Laughter.)  And she said, “I’m a
Republican, but I like you.”  (Laughter.)  
  
But my point is this: We used to talk to one another.  We used to get
along with one another.  There used to be a civility — what we — and in
the last — the last 10 years, things have begun to change.   
  
You may remember, I made a speech — because it got a lot of publicity,
not all positive.  I made a speech at Independence Hall before the 2022
elections — six days out — where I said our democracy is at stake. 
Literally, not figuratively.  And they thought it was an exaggeration. 
But guess what?  Sixty-six percent of the American people thought that
the case: Democracy is at stake.   
  
And so, my — the reason I’m so happy to be here with your
representatives: They’re all decent, honorable people.  We can argue
like hell.  We disagree, although I don’t want to get them in trouble. 
We don’t disagree very often.  (Laughter.) But, anyway —  
  
So, I think of Maine like I used to think of my state, where everybody
knows everybody.  And, you know, there’s an old joke: You know, be
careful what you say, they may be related.  (Laughter.)  
  
So, at any rate, I want to thank you for allowing me to come — come back
to Maine, which I’ve been here many times, but not since I’ve been
president.  Number one.  
  
Number two, I think we’re at a place where we’re at a genuine inflection
point in history.  I had a physics professor who said that an inflection
point is the time you’re going down the highway 60 miles an hour and you
make an abrupt, 45 degree or 30 degree turn to the right.  You can never
get back on the path you were on before.  It occurs every five, six,
seven generations in world history.   
  
But the world is changing — changing not because Joe Biden is President
or Putin is leading Russia.  It’s because everything’s changing from
global warming.  I last was with Putin two Christmases ago and I pointed
out: He has eight time zones, and the entire tundra is melting.  Methane
is leaking.  It’s never going to freeze again.   
  
We got a fundamental change we got to deal with.  We’re seeing changes
not just to the climate, but across the world in fundamental ways.  And
so, we better get going on what we’re going to do about it, both in
foreign policy and domestic policy.  
  
But before I decided to announce for the Senate, and I wasn’t going to
run — I mean for the presidency, the last time out.  And, I think Angus
knows: I wasn’t going to run again.  I had just lost my son.  He — he
died because of being — sleeping next to a burn pit for a year and — in
— in Baghdad.  And he was a decorated soldier.  He — Conspicuous Service
medal, the Bronze Star, attorney general of the state of Delaware. 
Presumptuous of me to say this: He should be the one talking to you
today, not me.  He was quite — he was attorney general of the state.  
  
My point is that, you know, there’s a lot going on.  Name me a part of
the world that you think is going to look like it did 10 years ago 10
years from now — not a joke.  But it presents enormous opportunities —
enormous opportunities.  I’m just going to go through a few for you, if
you will be willing to stick with me on this.   
  
First of all, you know, on the economic front, we have made some real
progress in the first two years.  We’ve — we’ve — over 13.2 million new
jobs, beyond when we went into the pandemic.  We’ve — inflation is down
from 9 percent to 3 percent.  We’re in a situation where we have a
circumstance that we’ve created 810,000 manufacturing jobs.  And how
many of you were told manufacturing is dead?  You watched it happen here
in Maine in the small towns, like in Delaware, in the Midwest, and
Nevada — I mean, Nebraska, all — all red, blue states.  
  
A factory that mom and dad worked at for 30 years and made a decent
salary — all of a sudden, one day, it up and goes abroad.  Because why? 
We started a process that we had — we took the — the whole notion of
trickle-down economics to an extreme.  We shipped our — we found the
cheapest labor in the world we could find and we shi- — shipped the
factories over there.  And then we brought the product back here and we
sold it here.  And America found itself in trouble.  
  
Well, I decided that the way to change — to deal with a changed world
here was not that we couldn’t compete anymore, it’s because we had the
wrong philosophy about how to compete.  I — I insisted that — and I —
and I’ve been doing this — I know I don’t look it, but I’ve been doing
this a long time.  (Laughter.)   
  
And one of the things that we — I decided we should build — and I’ve
thought — had this view for a long time: that we should build the
economy from the middle out and the bottom up.  When that occurs,
everybody does well.  The wealthy do very well.  
  
I’m a capitalist.  I come from the co- — corporate state of the world. 
More businesses — and some of you know because you may be incorporated —
they’re incorporated in Delaware — than every other state in the Union
combined.  Every state.  And I represented, as senator, for 36 years, so
I’m not anti-business.  But everybody has got to pay their fair share. 
Everybody has got to pay their fair share.  
  
We went from having 746 billionaires in America before the pandemic to a
thousand.  And guess what their average federal tax is: 8- — 8.3
percent.  How can that be right?  How can that be fair?  And so, I
started to focus on: What do we do to bring this back?  
  
We used to be — have the number one infrastructure in the world.  We’re
ranked number 14.  The United States of America, by — the international
folks say that we — we’re the 14th best infrastructure: roads, bridges,
and the like.   
  
China used to be, I think, 17 or 16.  Now number two.  What’s the
matter?  Something is wrong.  
  
How can we lead the world being 14th in the world on our
infrastructure?  I’m not joking.  Think about it in practical terms,
just pure practical terms.  
  
Secondly, manufacturing.  You saw what’s happened here in Maine.  The
same thing has happened in Nebraska.  You don’t have to be in the
Northeast.  It’s the same thing all across the country.  How many times
have you heard people say they’ve had their — their son or daughter has
graduated from high school here and then went to college and came back
to say, “Mom, I can’t stay.  There’s no jobs for me here.  There’s
nothing here for me.”   
  
You lost employment like a lot of places lost it.  And it’s not just
manufacturing.  How do we get — and, by the way, we invented the
computer chip.  We — we — it’s tinier than the little, tiny end of my
finger here.  And guess what?  We used to have 40 percent of the
market.  We got 5 percent.   
  
And you all saw what happened when we got in real trouble in inflation,
when you couldn’t build automobiles and shutting down plants.  It takes
so many computer chips to be able to do it.   
  
So, I got my colleagues and leadership of this man sitting in the front
here of the — dealing with the — the legislation that had to do with
providing for in- — investment in technology.  And it was called the
CHIPS Act.  And guess what?  It’s attracted off the sidelines almost a
trillion dollars in private equity investment — almost a trillion. 
(Applause.)   
  
No, I’m — this is not rocket science.  For example, we used to not be
able to produce the chips.  Well, guess what?  We have over $300 billion
of commitments to build new chip factories in the United States of
America.   
  
And guess what that does?  Not only is all the — the construction work
and providing union labor to people to get a decent wage, changing their
abil- — my dad used to say, “Joey, at the end of the” — no, I’m not
joking — my dad was a very refined guy who was very well-read, never had
a chance for a college education.   
  
And we — he’d come home and close the business he was running — he
didn’t own it; he was a manager — he’d come home for dinner and then go
back and close it.  My dad used to say, “Joey, the measure is whether at
the end of the month you’re able to pay all your bills and you have a
little breathing room — just a little breathing room.”  So many
Americans have no breathing room.  No breathing room.   
  
And so, what do we do?  When I went to South Korea and convinced the
chip factory to invest in America, and they’re investing $100 billion. 
I said, “Why are you doing it?”  They said, “Simple: You’re the safest
place in the world to invest, number one.  And number two, you have the
best workers in the world.”  Not a joke.  I’m not making this up.  This
is real.   
  
Look what’s happening: everything from Poughkeepsie, New York, to just
outside of Columbus, Ohio, where Intel has just investing $20 billion
building two — what they call “fabs” — factories.  You know what happens
when those fabs — they employ thousands of people.  And guess what?  The
average salary is going to be $131,000, and you don’t need a college
degree to do it.  (Applause.)  
  
I was making the case to the Business Roundtable, you know, the — the
biggest corporations in America.  They’re good people, decent people. 
And they were asking me why was investing so much money in organized
labor and convincing — and di- — in labor?   I said, “Because you need
them.”  And they said, “Well, what we need…” — and I said, “We did a
survey when I was vice president.  And we — we met with 342 of the
Fortune 500 companies, either on — on Zoom or in person.  I said, ‘What
do you need most?’  They said, ‘We need a better-educated public.’  I
said, “What the heck are you doing about it?  Why you oppose my dealing
with investing more money in preschool?”  
  
Not — on third grade thr- — three years old, going to school — not
daycare, school.  All the studies show — the Harvard, Stanford studies
shows it increased by 57 percent, no matter what the background the
child comes from, their ability to get through 12 years of school or
not.  (Applause.)  What’s the problem?  
  
And by the way, they’re beginning to help.  It’s self-interest.  
  
But my generic point is simple: that there’s so much available to us as
a country — so much available to us.  We just got to remember who in the
Lord’s name we are.   
  
We’re in a situation where if you take a look at what we’ve done around
the world — you know, you take a look at — does anybody think that the
post-war eras still exist, the rules of the road from the end of World
War Two?   
  
I’m — I’m — I’m being deadly earnest.  It’s not hyperbole, just direct
statement.  It doesn’t.   
  
I spent my whole life — the reason I turned down being able to run for
governor, which is a very important job when I was young man, is I
wanted to be involved in a foreign policy.  I spent most of my life as
the Chairman of Foreign Relations Committee or doing foreign policy for
Barack or now.  It’s kind of fascinating to take a look at what’s going
on.   
  
We look at — does anybody think that Europe was likely to hold together
if we hadn’t pulled it together?  Not a joke, not a joke.   
  
I spent over 180 hours with heads of state from the G7 and the European
Union, just holding it together.  NATO is stronger today than it’s ever
been in its existence — (applause) — not just because of me, but it’s
stronger today.   
  
And look what’s happening with regard to China in the — in the Indian
Ocean and in the — you know, I got asked by Xi why I call myself a
Pacific nation.  I said, “Because we are.  We have a longer border on
the Pacific than you do.  We are a Pacific nation.”  And I said, “And
you wouldn’t have been able to move at all unless we were providing you
the stability you needed.”  Give you my word, he looked at me and said,
“You’re right.  You’re right.”   
  
Look what’s happening.  Does anybody ever think Japan would increase its
military budget over its domestic budget and help a European war on the
side of the West?  That’s what it’s doing.  It’s changing the dynamic
significantly.   
  
I’m hosting little (inaudible) at Camp David next week.  I’m bringing
along the leaders of Japan and South Korea.  They made a rapprochement
from World War Two: fundamental change.   
  
Look what’s happening in — in Southeast Asia, where now I put together
the Quad — meaning India, Japan, Australia, and the United States.  Xi
said, “Why are you doing that?  You’re trying to surround me.”  I said,
“No, that’s not the reason.  I just want to make sure the rules of the
road aren’t changing.”   
  
International airspace is international airspace.  International water
space is water space.  You can’t tell us we can’t.  Well, where we’re
going to put up an air identification zone, meaning you can’t fly
through certain areas, even though it’s international airspace.  And
guess what we did?  We flew a B-1 bomber through.  Not a joke.  Not a
joke.  Because we can’t let this change that’s taking place.   
  
I’ve gotten a call from the head of Vietnam, desperately wants to meet
me when I go to the G20.  He wants to elevate us to a major partner,
along with Russia and China.  What do you think that’s about?  No, I’m
not joking.   
  
I’m not going to take you around the world, but the point is: The world
is changing. 

<figure>
<img
src="https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/07/image.gif"
title="Anchor" class="wp-image-81449" decoding="async" loading="lazy"
width="1" height="1" />
</figure>

The world is changing in a big way.  And we want to promote democracies
— democracies.   
  
Watch what’s happened in the Middle East.  I got criticized from going
to Saudi Arabia, remember?  Well, guess what?  I got them to prevent
overflights for — for — for Israel.  So, they — there’s a rapprochement
may be underway.    
  
My generic point is there is so much going on that we can make the world
for this young man who’s going to be president someday, we can make it a
lot safer and better and more secure.  We know who’s on first, who’s on
second, and so on.   
  
So, if you think about what’s happening — and I was going to make a more
detailed speech, but it’s — I’m keeping you too long already — the — if
you think about what’s happening, there is a confluence, if we get this
right, of both domestic economic policy and foreign policy.  I can make
a safer and more secure than we’ve been a long, long time.   
  
And that’s what I’m about.  That’s what I want to do.  I want to get to
the point where we’re in a situation where we know — look, I said
earlier today that I’ve never been more optimistic about America’s
future than I am today.  I mean it.  That’s not hyperbole.  I’ve been
saying it for a year.   
  
The reason is: Think of anything America’s ever set its mind to that we
haven’t been able to do.  Name me — they asked me, “If you could do one
thing, what would you do?”  I said, “I’d cure cancer.”  They said, “Ca-
— why?”  It’s because it’s the one thing people think we can’t do.   
  
To demonstrate: This is the United States of America, damn it.  When
we’ve worked together, there is no major problem we’ve been unable to
solve.  None.  And today, we are splintered in a way we never have
been.   
  
I’ll conclude by telling you a little story.  You know, I didn’t — even
though I sat for eight years in the vice president’s chair, every
morning at nine o’clock with Barack starting the day off for eight
years, I didn’t realize that there was a — a circumstance where on
Inauguration Day, the outgoing president has to be out of the office by
10 o’clock.  The incoming president can’t come in until three
o’clock.   
  
So, I asked my — because they set aside the furniture, what desk, what
rugs, what — whatever you want — and so I asked my brother Jimmy to take
care of it for me.  And he called the Presidential historian named Jon
Meacham, a well-known guy, in to help him because there are certain
things that matter: What bust did I want there?   
  
Sit at my desk, and there is only two political leaders I ever had: One
was Dr. King and the other was Bobby Kennedy.  I had great respect for
John Kennedy, but I could never picture him at my kitchen table.  I can
theoretically think of Bobby Kennedy there.  And Ce- — Cesar Chavez —
whose granddaughter is running in my campaign, by the way — who almost
cost me an election in 1972.  (Applause.)  
  
By the way, because I was sympathetic to the farmworkers, and Southern
Delaware, where you got a $4 billion industry on chickens, they ain’t
happy about that.  (Laughter.)  
  
And so, all kidding aside, that — and then, you know, there is a woman
who wouldn’t move to the back of the bus and changed the whole world. 
And Harry Truman.  I also have Ben Franklin, because I was a Ben
Franklin professor of law — international law at Penn for four years,
and it was a requirement.  
  
But here’s the deal: I think I walked into that office and, for years —
and I was in there a lot because of — I was chairman of judiciary or
vice president for a lo- — I mean — or excuse me — or the chairman of
foreign relations for a long time.  And I walked in, and the only
portrait above the fireplace was one of George Washington.  Only one all
the time I’ve been there, and I’ve been there 600 years.  (Laughter.)  
  
And I walk in — they had the rug that I wanted.  We changed the rug and
the desk, the Resolute Desk, and my — so- — my brother picked out the
furniture, the couches, and the like.  And obviously, Trump wasn’t
there.  He’s the first president in the history of the United States of
America that didn’t show up on Inauguration Day.  Classy guy. 
(Laughter.)  I was just as happy he didn’t.   
  
But my point was that I looked up and I saw this — there is this big
portrait four times — three times as big as the — as the Washington
portrait — of Franklin Roosevelt.  And I said, “I’m an admirer, but why
Franklin Roosevelt?”  
  
And Meacham spoke up, and he said, “Because no president has taken on
the job of president with a world at greater financial disarray than he
was.”  I said, “Oh, that’s good.  I’m really happy about that.” 
(Laughter.)  I’m serious.  
  
And I said, “Why…” — and then there were — there were four smaller
portraits.  One of Washington — the original one was up on the
right-hand corner.  I mean, if you’re looking from my desk, on the
left-hand corner.  And below it was Abraham Lincoln.  I said, “Why
Lincoln?”  He said, “The nation has never been as divided since the
Civil War.”   
  
Well, folks, you know, I’m not sure how far off they are.  But I am sure
— I am sure we cannot succeed as a country unless we change it.  No, no
think about it.  
  
I — you may remember when I ran the first time, I said I’m running for
three reasons.  I think my campaign disagreed with my saying it, but I
meant it.   
  
One, I wanted to restore the soul of America.  We start to treat each
other with decency and honor and de- — deal with people in a way that
that is more like who we are.  Not a joke.   
  
The second thing was I said I want to build the economy from the middle
out and the bottom up.   
  
And I said the third thing is you got to unite America.  Well, your
great senator, George Mitchell, is a close friend of mine I just spoke
to.  He was the guy, when I left, said Biden did more to be able to
bring Republicans and Democrats together than anybody when he was here. 
An exaggeration on his part, but it was very nice of him to say.   
  
But guess what?  Who do you deal with now?  How do you get certain
things done?  Ask Angus what it’s like getting things done in the Senate
or the House.   
  
But we have to do that.  How can you be a participatory democracy
without there being the ability to bring people together?  How does that
happen?  
  
And the last generic point I’ll make to you is that, you know, having
spent most of my time as vice president doing foreign policy for Barack
and having spent my career focusing mostly on foreign policy for the 36
years I was a senator, I thought I — I thought I knew the consequence of
an American president.  But it’s amazing.   
  
Madeleine Albright wrote a book.  And she referred to America as “the
essential nation.”  We literally are.  Ask yourself a rhetorical
question: Who could possibly bring the world together?  Not a joke.  Not
me.  But the President of the United States of America.  Who could do it
unless the President of the United States does it?  Who?  What nation
could do it?  
  
And so, folks, there’s a lot at stake — a whole lot at stake.  And I
think we have an opportunity.  And one of the ways we make life better
for us is make life better for the rest of the world.  That’s why I
pushed so hard for the Build Back Better initiative to build the
infrastructure in Africa and in — and in Latin America and South
America.   
  
We’re the ones who polluted the world.  We clear cut everything.  We
made a lot of money.  Lula from Brazil wants to meet with me shortly
because, you know, there’s more carbon absorbed from the air in the
Amazon than all the carbon emitted in the — from the United States of
America on a yearly basis.   
  
But guess what?  They — they’re having trouble.  They want their farmers
to be able to go out and clear the land and make money and so on.   
  
So, there’s a lot that’s out there that we have a chance to do.  And,
again, there’s nothing you can name for me that if America set its mind
to do it, we have not been able to do it over time.  Nothing. 
Nothing.   
  
And the whole world is changing.  But if we grab hold, we apply the
ingenuity and our — you know, our greatest strength — I said when I got
elected I was going to have an administration that looked like America. 
Well, guess what it is?  I have a higher percentage of women on my
Cabinet than any president ever had — more than the number of men. 
(Applause.)  
  
In the military, for the first time ever, we’re having the Chief of
Naval Operations is a woman.  Two other four-stars (inaudible).  So,
it’s changing.    
  
I’ve appointed more appellate court judges to the federal courts than —
who are African American than every other president in America
combined.  (Applause.)  
  
And, by the way, not for political reasons. For a simple reason: Our
strength is our diversity.  Our strength is our diversity.  It’s about
time we begin to use it and understand it, deal with it.   
  
So, folks, look, imagine — and, by the way, all the stuff we did in the
economy, all these programs that we’ve put forward — in the process, I
cut the federal debt by $1.7 trillion in two years.  (Applause.)  More
than any other president of the United States has come close.  The last
president increased it by $4 trillion.   
  
Folks, there’s nothing we can’t do if we remember who in God’s name are
— this is the United States of America.  There’s nothing beyond our
capacity.   
  
And if you think all — you think I was exaggerating about we’re at an
inflection point?  Just take a look at AI.  Artificial intelligence. 
Hang on, baby.  It has enormous promise but enormous possibilities to go
wrong.  We got to know what we’re doing.   
  
And so, folks, look, the — you know, imagine what we can do if we finish
the job.  Like I said, I don’t think — I think that ordinary people
should have an opportunity to get a good education, ordinary people
should be able to afford to go to college.  I love it when I get
criticized for forgiving debt for people whose income is not above
$60,000 for college.  (Applause.)   
  
Well, guess what?  We had the PPP program.  If you ran a diner, you had
five employees, and, during the pandemic, you got in trouble, guess
what?  You get — by the way, the woman who criticized me most?  She got
$220,000 back from that program.  I’m not opposed the program, but give
me a break.  Give me a break.   
  
So, look, you know, I believe this country is about to take off.  And
you’re saying, “When the hell is he going take off?”  (Laughter.)  But
the investments we’ve made in the past two and a half — two and a half
years have powered the transformation of this country in the next 50
years and, you know, doing something right now no one thought
possible.   
  
But most of them opposed everything that we did, everything we
supported.  But if you notice, all of a sudden, it’s all — they’re —
there’s an inside joke.  I say I’m — I’m showing up at the spade
turning.  
  
Guess what? You have the gentlewoman — talk about an oxymoron — from
North Georgia, who is about to get one of the biggest environmental
investments of billions of dollars in her district.  And she’s against
it.  Guess what?  But she’s — she’s talking about the clarion call.   
  
You’re going to get billions of dollars for making sure that everyone in
this state has a connection to the Internet and affordable. 
(Applause.)  
  
Well — and the senator from Alabama, he knew how to coach Alabama, I
think.  Well, he sure as hell doesn’t know what he’s talking about
now.   
  
He just did a big press conference.  “Alabama is receiving $1.3 trillion
to make sure we have — we have all of Alabama — all of Alabama wired for
the Internet.  It’s going to be cheaper.”  He voted against it,
campaigned against it.  I’m going down when he makes his announcement. 
We’re going to be with him.  (Applause.)  
  
Now, look, I just think that the — you know, it’s been a long time.  But
as I said, I think that — I don’t think there’s a thing we can’t do if
we set our mind to it.  We can’t kid each other, though.  This democracy
is at stake.  Not a joke.  Not a joke.   
  
One of the reasons why I did the Emmett Till thing was I wanted to make
it clear that history is history.  And that his mother, making sure
there was an open coffin so people knew exactly what happened — knew
exactly what happened — took an enormous amount of courage.  And it was
the Black press that exposed it and made people look at it.  
  
Did you ever think you’d be in a country right now at your age and your
circumstance where we’re banning books?  I just read — my wife wrote a
book, not about politics at all — they took it out of libraries in
Georgia.  As we say in my religion, “Bless me, Father, for I have
sinned.”  I mean, come on.  I don’t think that’s who America is.  I
don’t think that’s the majority of Americans.   
  
And with your help, we’re going to make sure that it doesn’t happen. 
That it does not — we don’t get in a situation where we have a man who —
if you just take what he said, on the record, I’m inclined — just a
snippet — the stuff he said with him and run those ads, some would say
it’s just flat seditious.  Not who we are.   
  
And you’re all successful people.  You traveled abroad.  Ask any of your
compatriots — whether they’re left, right, or center — what they think
about — not me, but about if the other guy comes back.   
  
We got a lot to do, but we got a lot of hope.  A lot of hope.   
  
As — every time I’d walk out of my Grandpop Finnegan’s house up in
Scranton, he was a — he went to Santa Clara and he was a newspaper guy
and an All-American football player, by the way, in the days when they
used to throw people over the line.  (Laughter.)  
  
But he’d yell, “Joey, keep the faith.”  And my grandmother would yell,
“No, Joey, spread it.”   
  
Let’s go spread the faith.  (Applause.)  
  
5:00 P.M. EDT
