---
date: '2023-07-18'
modified_time: 2023-07-18 15:40:10-04:00
published_time: 2023-07-18 15:40:09-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/07/18/remarks-as-prepared-for-delivery-by-first-lady-jill-biden-at-an-augusta-workforce-hub-event/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks as Prepared for Delivery by First Lady Jill\_Biden at an Augusta Workforce\
  \ Hub\_Event"
---
 
Augusta, GA

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Thank you, Secretary Cardona. Every day, you remind us why it matters so
much to have an educator leading the Department of Education. We’re so
grateful for all that you do.

Deputy Secretary Turk—you and the Department of Energy are doing great
work to help Georgians lead the way towards our clean energy future.

I also want to thank Mayor Johnson, President Mahan, President Whirl,
Superintendent Bradshaw, employers, and the labor leaders we have with
us for your passion and your attention to these programs.

The speakers we have with us today show how our entire government is
invested in the work here.

Joe’s father used to say: A job is about a lot more than a paycheck.

It’s about dignity. Joe watched his dad struggle to find good work. He
saw how a job could change a family’s path.

He understands the middle class because he’s from the middle class.

That’s why he’s strengthening communities like Augusta—fueling a
nationwide manufacturing boom and creating new opportunities for
hard-working families.

His leadership has helped transform our economy, with more than 13
million jobs created, unemployment under four percent, and billions
invested in our infrastructure and growing industries like clean energy
and advanced manufacturing.

And today, we’re seeing what that looks like in real life.

In May, the White House selected Augusta as one of five cities in what
we are calling the Biden Workforce Hub Initiative.

Through this initiative, we’re focusing on key cities that have received
significant investments from both the federal government and private
companies.

Here, that means a growing clean energy industry—building the facilities
to manufacture the batteries powering our future. But in order to keep
this progress going, employers need more skilled workers.

So, the Biden-Harris Administration is working with local leaders,
colleges and public schools, unions, and employers to develop new
training pathways to the good careers created by those public and
private investments.

And they’re working with the Department of Education to reach out to
every community, so more women, especially African American women, can
access these pathways.

To the little girls and women listening: the doors are open—and these
are jobs for you too.

As a community college professor myself, I’m so excited to see how this
work changes people’s lives. So, last week, I visited Columbus, and
later today, I’m traveling to Pittsburgh to see more of these programs
up close.

And I’m going to keep coming back to lift up your progress.

Because for most people, a high school diploma alone isn’t enough to
find a great career. But that doesn’t mean there’s only one path to
success. Students can take college courses in high school, enroll in
Registered Apprenticeships, or earn associate degrees.

The Biden Education pathway starts with free, high-quality, universal
preschool and creates a high school experience that prepares students
for their next steps.

It provides two years of affordable community college and opens up
avenues to a four-year degree.

It’s the future of our workforce, and how we build our economy from the
bottom up and the middle out.

Things like unemployment rates and jobs created aren’t just numbers.
They represent people—families trying to make a good life. Like Joe’s
when he was growing up. Like mine. Maybe like yours.

They represent that young woman who looks at a paycheck from her new job
and takes a deep breath for the first time in what feels like months.

The dad who finally gets to say “OK” with a smile when his son asks for
new shoes for school.

The small business owner who can start expanding, because her employees
have the right skills and training to take on new projects.

A job is about more than a paycheck. It’s a path—a way to build the
lives we want.

And everyone, no matter where they live, deserves the chance to do just
that.

Now hopefully, you’ve been hearing about Bidenomics—Joe’s economic
vision to rebuild the middle class. The investments and partnerships and
pathways I’ve talked to you about today—they’re all a part of Bidenomics
working for you to do just that.

When we invest in America, we can bring people together and
fundamentally transform what it means to make a living and make a life
here in America.

Thank you.
