---
date: '2023-07-14'
published_time: 2023-07-14 17:20:10-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/07/14/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-on-combatting-climate-change-and-building-a-clean-energy-economy/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris on Combatting Climate Change and Building\
  \ a Clean Energy\_Economy"
---
 
*Coppin State University  
Baltimore, Maryland*

3:30 P.M. EDT  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Good afternoon, everyone.  Good afternoon.  Good
afternoon.  Please have a seat.  Please have a seat.   
  
But I’m going to ask you applaud — to — to applaud again for Vernice,
please, (inaudible).  (Applause.)  Really.   
  
Because, you know, Michael Regan and I have talked about this as we
travel the country, and there is so much about what we are accomplishing
in these last two years with the work we have done — (phone rings) —
that really is about answering the calls — (laughter) — and the — and —
no, but — but I mean that in all seriousness: answering the demands,
answering — for Vernice, over 30 years — and so many other leaders who
are here and around our country who have been talking about and shouting
about and organizing about and leading about the need for us to take
seriously the health and the safety and the well-being of all
communities.   
  
It is leaders like Vernice who talk about places like Baltimore.  Who
understand the capacity of the community as well as the needs of the
community as well as the dreams and the desires of the community.  
  
So I stand here before you, as Vice President of the United States,
proud to make the announcements we are making today, which are
historic.  And I am very clear: I stand here on the shoulders of people
like Vernice — (applause) — and her decades of work and leadership in
the fight for environmental justice.   
  
So, it is good to be back in Baltimore.  (Laughs.)  (Applause.)  You
know, I’m from Oakland.  Baltimore is like home to me.  (Laughs.)   
  
And it is, of course, wonderful to be here with my friend, with my
colleague, the EPA Administrator, Michael Regan, who I have to tell you
— because he and I have been working very closely, like I said,
traveling around the country — he is extraordinary.   
  
Vernice talked about it, and you can see when he talks: He is truly
committed, and he is bold and he is relentless, and he is tireless, and
he is ambitious about the rights and the responsibilities that we have
to respond to the needs of the American people.  
  
Michael, it’s such a joy to work with you.  Thank you for your
leadership.  (Applause.)  Thank you.  
  
And it is also wonderful to be here with my — when I was in the Senate,
my Senate classmate, Chris Van Hollen.  (Applause.)  Thank you for your
leadership.  Chris is always saying, “Come back to Baltimore.  I’m
here.”  (Laughs.)  
  
Senator Tom Carper, a great, great leader, a great friend to the
President, and one of the people who is responsible for being a leader
in the state Sen- — in — in our national Senate in the Capitol on this
issue, as well as Senator Ed Markey, all the way from Massachusetts
here, because of the work that he has been doing tirelessly for years
and years.  He and I talked about a similar announcement that we made
together in Boston.  
  
Congressman Frank Pallone — where are you? — thank you for your work. 
There he is.  Again, a long way from home but here because this is about
national impact, this work we’re doing.  
  
And, of course, Congressman David Trone, thank you for your leadership
and your work.  
  
And I also want to mention the governor, Wes Moore.  He’s out of state
at the moment, but he wanted to be here, and he’s doing incredible work,
and I want to applaud his leadership as well.  (Applause.)  
  
And I want to thank this audience and all of the folks who are here, if
not in person, but because of their work, they are here and present with
us.   
  
In particular, the students, the activists, the union workers, the
elected officials — (applause) — everyone who is here.  The mothers and
fathers and grandmothers and grandfathers and aunties and uncles and all
of the leaders who have participated in a day like today.  
  
I want to thank you for your leadership and your partnership in taking
on one of the most urgent matters of our time: this climate crisis.  
  
So, every day, all across our nation, we feel and see the impact of the
climate crisis.  I mean, if you watch the morning news, it will be the
lead story.  It’s been every day for the last couple of weeks.  It is
the lead story.  I think we finally, at least in our progress, come to
the point that most people can no longer deny it because it is so
obvious.  
  
And we have seen, around our country, where communities have been choked
by drought, have been washed out by floods, and decimated by
hurricanes.  Here in Baltimore, you have seen your skies darkened by
wildfire smoke.  And you have seen the waters of the Chesapeake Bay
rise, threatening homes and businesses that have stood for
generations.  
  
It is clear that the clock is not only ticking, it is banging.  And we
must act.  
  
As Vice President, as I said, I’ve traveled across our nation to speak
with thousands of Americans about this crisis.  I have met with students
and entrepreneurs, small-business owners, community leaders, nonprofit
leaders, labor leaders — folks with new approaches to reduce our
emissions and accelerate our clean energy transition, but folks who
often do not have access to the funds they need to make their ideas a
reality.  And that is a problem.   
  
For years, one of the missing pieces in our strategy to fight the
climate crisis is that we have not invested at scale in community
climate action.  For years, the people of the community — folks who know
what their neighborhood needs and how to provide it — have not been
given adequate resources to implement climate solutions that match the
magnitude of the crisis we face.  
  
And that’s why we’re here today.  And that’s why we’re here today.  
  
Today, I am proud to announce the largest investment in financing for
community-based climate projects in our nation’s history.  (Applause.) 
It’s a good day.   
  
And one of the reasons that it is so significant is because we also —
frankly, we’ve got to make up for lost time.  So, by dramatically
accelerating our work, we know we can lower emissions.  
  
And we will do that by providing $20 billion to a national network of
nonprofits, community lenders, and other financial institutions to fund
tens of thousands of climate and clean energy projects across America. 
(Applause.)  
  
So, here is what that will mean: Okay, so imagine, for example, the
construction companies that build affordable housing here in Baltimore
that, because of this investment, will now have the capital they need to
install energy-efficient appliances in new units, to lower energy use,
and to help tenants save on their electric bills.  
  
Imagine, for example, the small-business owner who will now be able to
receive zero-interest loans to electrify their fleet of delivery
vehicles so we can reduce pollution and save on gas.  
  
Imagine, for example — (applause) — right?  Imagine, for example, the
house of worship that will now be able to have access to loan guarantees
so they can install solar panels on the roof of their building —
(applause) — to generate affordable clean electricity for the entire
neighborhood.  Imagine.   
  
You know, when President Biden and I took office, we set an ambitious
goal.  Yes, people said, “That can’t be done.”  We said, “Well, you know
what?  We believe in dreaming with ambition and then seeing it
thorough.”  
  
And so, we set an ambitious goal to cut our greenhouse gas emissions in
half by 2030 and to reach net-zero emissions by 2050.  The investment we
are announcing today will help us to achieve these goals, and it will do
so much more, because think also about the impact on not only the local
economy, not only on an investment in the entrepreneurs and innovators
from and in the community.  Think about the impact on something like
public health.   
  
When we invest in clean energy and electric vehicles and
reduce <s>population</s> \[pollution\], more of our children can breathe
clean air and drink clean water.  (Applause.)  
  
Think of the impact on family budgets.  When we help folks upgrade their
heating and cooling systems, we lower the cost of electricity, which
means lower energy bills for working parents so they have more money for
groceries and home repairs and school supplies.  
  
And think of all the jobs that these investments will create, including
many good-paying union jobs.  (Applause.)  Jobs, for example, for the
workers of IBEW who will install energy-efficient lighting. 
(Applause.)  Jobs for the sheet metal workers who will replace gas
furnaces with electric heat pumps.  (Applause.)  Jobs for the laborers
who will build net-zero housing.  (Applause.)  Right.  
  
So, understand, when the President and I invest in climate, we intend to
invest in jobs, invest in families, and invest in America.  
  
And this investment is also about a partnership with the private
sector.  You know, my whole career, I have believed in the power of
public-private partnerships.  I have seen how much more we can
accomplish when we combine the experience and expertise of the private
sector with the reach and the scale that only the government can
provide.  
  
And as the business leaders here today can confirm, this investment is
an incentive — this public investment is an inventive by design for
billions more dollars from the private sector.  
  
And in all this work, we have put a special focus on communities that
have been historically left out and left behind.  The climate crisis
impacts everybody, but it does not impact all communities equally.  
  
Poor communities, rural communities, Native communities, and communities
of color are often the hardest hit and the least able to recover.  
  
So let’s be clear about that: The least, in terms of where investments
have been made in mitigation and adaption; the hardest hit and the least
able to recover.  
  
So to address this inequity, nearly $12 billion of this funding we’re
announcing today will be invested in overlooked communities. 
(Applause.)  Yes.  Yes.  It’s time.  It’s time.  It’s time.   
  
So, including in this vision of how we think of the best way and the
fastest and most effective way to get the resources to the community, we
are working specifically and intentionally with community banks.  Why? 
Well, because as everyone here probably knows: Community banks, by their
nature, are run by people who live and work in the community; people who
know firsthand the incredible potential in the place they themselves
call home.  They not only know the needs of the community.  They know
the capacity of the community.  They know the dreams of the community. 
They know the ambitions of the community.  And that’s the kind of
vehicle we need to actually think about how we will get these billions
of dollars to the folks who know what to do with it.   
  
As a United States senator, I helped secure $12 billion for community
banks.  And as Vice President, I have made community banks central to
our economic agenda.  (Applause.)   
  
And because of the unique role that community banks can play in
addressing the climate crisis, we made sure that they are eligible for
the funds that we are announcing today in a significant way, so that
more small businesses around our country have opportunity to join the
clean energy economy.  
  
And so I’ll close with this.  Last month, I met with a group of young
climate activists in Colorado, and — and it was a group of
high-schoolers who organized thousands of students.  And they made
Denver Public Schools one of the first school districts in our nation to
adopt a climate action plan.   
  
These young leaders were phenomenal.  And they were bold, and they were
not listening to “no.”  And they — look, I like to say, “I eat no for
breakfast.”  So I get it, right?  (Laughs.)  And these young leaders, of
course — like all the all the young leaders who are here and the
young-ish leaders who are here — we know we don’t have time to waste. 
They knew that.   
  
And so they weren’t sitting around waiting for somebody else to get it
done.  They led, understanding the profound challenges that we face.   
  
And yet, I will tell you about them: They had incredible hope and
optimism and joy about what is possible and the work that is being
done.  And I do believe it’s because they, like we, know that we have
time to make a difference, but we got to get on with it.   
  
And so, let us share their hope and recognize that when we work
together, when we invest in our communities, when we take action, we
will meet this moment and build a better, cleaner, healthier future for
generations to come.    
  
May God bless you.  And may God bless America.  (Applause.)   
  
Thank you.  Thank you.  
  
                               END                 3:46 P.M. EDT

\###
