---
date: '2023-07-01'
published_time: 2023-07-01 16:57:37-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/07/01/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-in-a-moderated-conversation-on-reproductive-rights-2/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris in a Moderated Conversation on Reproductive\_\
  Rights"
---
 
New Orleans, Louisiana

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Good afternoon, everyone.  Good afternoon, Essence
Fest.

MS. HOSTIN:  Well, we are both so humbled — so humbled to be here with
you, especially.  So, let’s get into it.  The Supreme Court has come
down recently with some interesting decisions. 

AUDIENCE:  Booo —

MS. HOSTIN:  There are a fa- — well, they’re interesting.  We’re talking
affirmative action.  We’re talking LGBTQ rights.  We’re talking about
student loan forgiveness. 

And I know you would like to address these things directly.  You have
the stage. 

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Sunny.  And let me just start by saying:
Monica and Sunny, it’s so wonderful to be on the stage with you and then
to be in this room with all these incredible leaders.  Don’t we just
love Essence Fest?  (Applause.)  It’s so important that we do this.  It
is so important that we do this. 

So, you know, I am a daughter of parents who met when they were active
in the civil rights movement.  And among the heroes of that movement
were folks like Thurgood Marshall, Charles Hamilton Houston, Constance
Baker Motley, who understood the power of the law to translate the
passion from the streets to the courtrooms of our country, to do the
work that is about reminding us of the promise of America, which
includes the promise of freedom and equality and, I would add also,
access to opportunity. 

And those of us who have chosen to take on the roles that we have
believe in that promise but are also clear eyed that we’ve not yet quite
achieved it but it is worthwhile that we will work and fight to get
there. 

 And we’ve seen success over the years through that process.  I think,
dare I say, none of us would be here were it not for Brown v. Board of
Education — (applause) — which desegregated the schools of America.  And
I could go on and on with the decisions. 

But, Sunny, to your point, we have seen — from 2013 in Shelby v. Holder
where they gutted the Voting Rights Act barely 50 years after it had
been passed.

And then, a year ago this week, with the Dobbs decision, that Court took
a constitutional right that had been recognized from the women of
America, from the people of America.

And then just in the last — what is it? — 48 hours, undoing affirmative
action, taking away access to opportunity for our best and brightest who
may not otherwise have access to the relationships or certain high
schools that otherwise would give them the leg up.  Undoing a policy
that our President Joe Biden and I felt so strongly about, which is
relieving people who have studied and don’t have personal wealth of the
burden of student loan debt. 

And by the way, don’t believe the hype, in terms of how some of these
folks have been talking during these interviews about it.  Because
here’s the deal: With what we did to forgive student loan debt,
$10,000.  And if you’re a Pell Grant recipient, $20,000.  And if you
went to an HBCU, it is likely that you are a Pell Grant recipient. 
(Applause.) 

The design and the implementation of that relief of student loan debt
would have played out such that 90 percent of those who would have
received it on an annual basis make less than $75,000 a year. 

And we’re talking about young people who have otherwise talked with me
and, everyone knows, who are worrying about whether they will ever be
able to start a family, whether they’ll ever be able to realize the
American Dream of buying a home, whether they’ll be able to get out of
debt so they can pursue a profession for which they have a passion
versus what they may have to do just to get those debts paid, even
though they want to work hard and contribute to our society. 

This — this decision about the denial of understanding the importance of
— of the evolution we had to say that businesses cannot discriminate
based on who you are.  And a decision that has essentially said that
we’re going to just throw a truck through the laws that were designed to
prevent discrimination and to deprive anyone just based on who they are
from having access to public — publicly available services. 

So, you know, I say this.  Coretta Scott King famously said said: The
fight for civil rights must be fought and won with each generation.  We
are that generation she spoke of at this moment in time.  (Applause.) 
And so, fight we must, understanding that the gains that we have made
will never be permanent unless we are vigilant. 

And I say that means let us fight for the future we deserve.  Fight for
the future we deserve.  (Applause.)

MS. HOSTIN:  And thank you for leading that fight — 

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Thank you. 

MS. HOSTIN: — along with President Biden.

This kid from the South Bronx projects would not be sitting here in
front of you today if it were not for affirmative action.  And I’m a
proud recipient of affirmative action.  (Applause.)  We need it.  We
need it. 

I’m first person to graduate from college in my family.  First person to
graduate from law school in my family.  And it was because of
affirmative action.  There’s no shame in that.  (Applause.)

Now, Madam Vice President, you — you mentioned what just happened with
the overturning of Roe v. Wade and the Dobbs decision.  We just passed
the one-year mark of that, if you can believe that to be true.

In your view, what has this meant for our country?  And what is the
administration doing to address this?  Because we know you’ve convened
reproductive and health rights activists, like my co-moderator, Monica
Simpson, here.  What is going on?

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  So, when the Dobbs decision came down about a year
ago last week, actually, they took a fundamental right from the people
of America, from the women of America.   
  
And I think it’s really important, when we talk about this issue, to
understand that, first of all, one does not have to abandon their faith
or deeply held beliefs to agree that the government should not be
telling her what to do with her body.  (Applause.)

If she chooses, she will talk with and consult her pastor, her priest,
her rabbi.  But the government should not be telling her what is in her
best interest.  Trust the women of America.  Trust the women of America
to know what they need.  (Applause.)

And what we have seen happen is exactly what we so sadly and accurately
predicted: women across America who are silently suffering, so many of
them; who are being made to feel as though they’ve done something
irresponsible or wrong; who are being judged; who are being denied
access to essential and critical care.   
  
Understand that after the Dobbs decision came down, laws had been
proposed and passed that are criminalizing physicians with significant
prison time, in many cases.  Understand that laws are being passed in
America, since that decision came down a year ago, that make no
exemption for rape or incest.   
  
And I know it’s a difficult conversation to discuss, but one must
discuss it because we have to be real about what’s happening right now
in our country.   
  
As many of you know, I was — and, Sunny, you and I share this background
as prosecutors — when — I became a prosecutor because my best friend in
high school, I learned, was being abused by her stepfather.  And I said
to her, “You have to come live with us.”  And I called up my mother, she
was at work, and she said, “Yes, she has to come live with us.”  And she
did.

Now, these extremist so-called leaders who are passing these laws saying
no exception, even — even for rape or incest, understand what they are
saying — these so-called leaders.  They are saying that after someone
has survived a crime of violence, a violation to their body — that after
that has happened, you will not have the choice about what happens to
your body next.

That’s immoral.  That’s immoral.  (Applause.)  
  
And they want to prance around, as so-called leaders, with their little
flag pins?  (Laughter.)

This is what’s happening in our country right now.  And I’ve met far too
many women who have shared their stories.   
  
A woman in Texas — actually, many women in Texas — who was suffering a
miscarriage went to the emergency room for help, and they turned her
away.  “We can’t help you, because we’re afraid about the laws, what it
might do.”   
  
She went back again.  “I need help and assistance with what’s happening,
this miscarriage.”  She wanted to carry her pregnancy to term.  They
turned her away.  It was not until she developed sepsis that they
treated her.

I met another young woman who and — with — came t- — came to one of my
events with her husband.  She was diagnosed at 18 weeks of pregnancy —
they were — they prayed to have a baby.  At 18 weeks of pregnancy, she
was diagnosed that — fatal fetal disease and that the baby would not
survive it.  They were devastated.  She wanted to then have a procedure;
she was denied to have the procedure.  So, basically, she was being told
that she should carry this even though the diagnosis was clear about
what the outcome would be, so she had to travel from Texas to Washington
State to get the procedure.   

Now, again, let’s break these things down, because it’s more than just
some intellectual and political issue.

So, this young woman, who prayed that she would be able to have a child
and then received a diagnosis from her doctor that is devastating news,
now has to be made to get a plane ticket, if she can afford it, go
through TSA, sit on a plane with a bunch of strangers to go to a
healthcare provider she doesn’t know to address this critical issue.   
  
It’s inhumane to make people do that.  And this is what’s happening in
our country every day: people silently having these experiences.  And I
think it’s so important that we all speak out and say that — that this
is a violation of basic rights that are about bodily autonomy and
self-determination.  (Applause.) 

And we have to stand with — with what we know to be right and true about
the importance of foundational principles, such as freedom, and say that
we are not going to stand for this and we are going to stand up and
speak to the need to, one, elect members of the United States Congress
who will pass national legislation to reinstate the protections of Roe
v. Wade — (applause) — that we will pay attention to who’s governor and
if they’re passing and signing these state laws; who’s the attorney
general, who’s in the state legislature, if they’re passing laws
criminalizing; who’s your prosecutor.  And we’ve got to vote in our
numbers and speak loudly about this grave injustice that is affecting
the women of America.  
  
MS. HOSTIN:  Vote.  Vote.  Vote.  Vote.  
  
MS. SIMPSON:  Vote.  Vote.  
  
MS. HOSTIN:  Vote.  Vote.  Vote.  You have that power in your hand, at
least where they’re not gerrymandering.

I want to finish this line of questioning.  And Monica certainly has
another line of questioning that she is going to get to that’s very
important.  I just want to switch gears quickly and talk about the Black
maternal health crisis.  Because, as you know, they say when the world,
you know, gets a cold, we get the flu.  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  That’s exactly right.  
  
MS. HOSTIN:  It’s another issue you have been such a champion for us,
and we thank you for that.  Can you tell us how you view the
relationship between the fight for reproductive rights and the Black
maternal health crisis?  Because, for some people, there seems to be a
disconnect there.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Oh, for some people, they have just revealed
themselves to be hypocrites.  (Laughter.)  So — (applause) — here’s why
I say that:

So, this is an issue I’ve been working on for many, many years.  And, in
fact, when I was in the Senate with my colleagues, the Congressional
Black Caucus — I was on the Senate side, they worked with me on this
were mostly on the House side — we passed — we proposed and got passed
what we called the “Momnibus” to — to address the — the need to support
mothers and women in the various stages of motherhood.   
  
And — and what I can tell you and everyone here probably knows is this:
We are one of the wealthiest nations in the world, and we have one of
the highest rates of maternal mortality in the world.

Black women in America are three to four times more likely to die in
connection with childbirth.  Native women are twice as likely to die. 
Rural women are one and a half more time — more likely to die.  And if
you’re a Black woman in rural America, you can — you can see where
that’s headed.

And, by the way, when it comes to Black maternal mortality, it has
nothing to do with her educational level or her socio-economic level. 
It literally has to do with the fact that when she walks into that
clinic, that emergency room, that doctor’s office, she is not taken as
seriously.  And we have, sadly, too many high-profile stories of exactly
what I’m talking about.

And so, this is an issue that I’ve been taking on for a number of years,
both in terms of what we need to do to address the racial bias that is
present with this issue.  And, in particular, I was very proud to — to
make clear that as part of the solution, we need to have the training of
healthcare providers in a number of ways, including that the trainers
would — among the trainers would be doulas — right? — (applause) — who
fully understand what it means when we talk about community care and —
and recognizing the whole person and the dignity of that person.   
      
Because let me be clear: For — for women who — who want to be pregnant
and want children, it should be a joyful experience.  Black women
deserve to have a joyful experience — (applause) — with their pregnancy.

And so, this is one of the issues that I’ve taken on for all of these
reasons.  And it has included, as you mentioned in the introduction, I
issued a challenge back in December of ‘21, after we — after we were
elected, to the states to say, “Well, Medicaid covers postpartum care
for two months, I challenge the states to extend it to 12 months.” 
(Applause.)  And we started with three states who were doing it, and now
we have 35 states and the — and D.C. doing it.  (Applause.)

So we still have some more to go, so you can help me in shaming the rest
of them.  (Laughter.)

But back to the point about the hypocrisy.  In the top 10 states that
have the worst maternal mortality, they are the same states that also
have abortion bans.   
  
So, these people who walk around saying that they have passed these bans
for the — in the interest of the health and wellbeing of mothers and
children are hypocrites.  (Applause.)  They’re — they’ve not — when we
look at, what are you doing to support women around prenatal care, their
pregnancies, postpartum care; what are we doing to recognize that women
need affordable transportation, that they need real support in terms of
what they need, because — if they already have children, affordable
childcare, paid family leave, paid maternal leave, for the — for the men
in their life, paid paternal leave.  (Applause.)

And so, there’s still so much to do.  But on this issue where these
people are beating their chest with these laws that are about denying
people the ability to make decisions about their own body, they must be
confronted about this, because there is an utter hypocrisy at play.   
  
And, by the way, Virginia is the only Southern state that it — does not
have a ban.  The majority of Black women live in these Southern states. 
So understand the connection between race, between income and who gets
what kinds of services, and what are the predictable outcomes when those
services are lacking.  And that divide exists.  And here you see, then,
the data that talks about Black maternal mortality.

So we got some work to do.   
  
MS. SIMPSON:  Absolutely.  I — I couldn’t agree with you more.  It’s
been hard for me not to act like a Black church girl in here.  Every
time she say something, I’m like, “Yep.  Amen.”  (Laughter.)  I just
want to encourage y’all, y’all can do that if you feel that today,
okay?  (Applause.)

But I also want to just kind of continue on this vein that we’re on
about intersectionality, because that’s what we’re talking about here
when thinking about how do we connect reproductive rights and maternal
health.  And I know we — to — we hear you talk very much about the
interconnectedness — right? — of reproductive rights and other very real
social justice issues —  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.  
  
MS. SIMPSON:  — like voting rights, like economics.  And I think that
that is — that’s been beautiful of you to talk about that as our vice
president because it’s helping other elected officials understand the
importance of that.  And that’s what reproductive justice really is all
about. 

And so can you talk to us about how you see these connections and why
they’re important right now, especially in the particular moment that
we’re in?

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  So that’s — and this is your life’s work, Monica,
and I so applaud and so grateful for all that you do — (applause) —
because you are always — you are always highlighting the interconnection
and the interdependence — right? — and, therefore, the collective
responsibility.  
  
MS. SIMPSON:  Absolutely.  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Right?  And so, you — so I asked my team, after we
started to see these attacks — I said, “Do — do a Venn…” — so, I love
Venn diagrams, you know, those three circles.  And so, I said, “Let’s do
a Venn diagram.  From which states are we seeing attacks on voting
rights, women’s reproductive health rights, and LGBTQ rights?”   
  
You would not be surprised of the intersection.  It was so apparent and
clear.

And so, thinking about, then, the opportunity that exists always in
moments of crisis and, on this point, the importance, then, of the
coalition and building the coalition and creating spaces and
opportunities for the folks who have been fighting for voting rights to
be in the same room with those who have been fighting for maternal
healthcare and reproductive healthcare, those who have been fighting for
LGBTQ rights, and to bring folks together, understanding that if we step
back and look clearly at what’s happening, there is a full-on attack at
play that I believe is part of the national plan to attack hard-fought
and hard-won freedoms.  And an attack on anyone’s freedom is attack on
all of our freedoms.  (Applause.)

And so, looking at it, then, as an opportunity to build the coalition,
understanding, again, that these attacks are about folks who are
exerting their rights.  Like when we talk about freedoms, it is a
right.  It is a right.  These are attacks on our rights, on your rights,
on their rights, on rights.

An attack on rights is something that we must see clearly as being an
offense to foundational principles about who we are as a country.   
  
And I would also ask this of all the friends in the sisterhood here, you
know that — that thing about the frogs in the pots?  Okay, so here it
goes.  
  
There’s two pots of water, and there’s two frogs.  In one pot of water,
you put the frog in and you slowly turn up the heat.  And that frog is
kind of like, “Oh, it’s getting kind of warm in here.”  And then the
heat keeps going up to boiling, and that frog perishes.  In the other
pot, you turn up the heat up on high, get that water boiling, you put
the frog in it, he’s going to jump out.  Let’s not be that first frog. 
(Laughter and applause.)  Let’s not be that first frog.  (Applause.)  
  
MS. HOSTIN:  No.  
  
MS. SIMPSON:  Let’s not be the first frog.  That is — oh.  I’m going to
have — that’s — that’s going to stick with me for a minute, Madam Vice
President, truly.   
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  (Laughs.)  

MS. SIMPSON:  We do not want to be that first frog.

I want to push us a little bit further into a different conversation,
but one that is so timely and so necessary right now, and that’s the
issue of gun violence in this country, right?  
  
You have eloquently, eloquently framed gun safety in the context of
freedom in this country, the freedom to be safe from gun violence.  And
I think that we would be remiss to not mention AJ Owens in this moment,
a Black woman, a Black mother — (applause) — who was killed in Ocala,
Florida, so senselessly, right?  And we can also see the
interconnections there to reproductive justice and gun violence, because
she was truly working to protect her family, right?  
  
MS. HOSTIN:  Mother of four.  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  That’s right.

MS. SIMPSON:  And so, we know that this issue was big and it’s
multi-layered, right?  Can you take a moment to just talk about what we
can do to really end this senseless violence that is harming so many in
our communities right now?

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Well, there’s a theme in this conversation that we
are all having, which is about many things, including rights and
freedoms, and also the importance of the vote.  
  
MS. SIMPSON:  That’s right.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Because, you see, we need people in the statehouses
and in the United States Congress who have the courage to act around
very clear and reasonable gun safety laws, who don’t fall for the false
choice that you’re either in favor of the Second Amendment or you want
to take everybody’s guns. 

I’m in favor of the Second Amendment, but we need an assault weapons
ban.  (Applause.)  Assault weapons are literally designed to kill a lot
of human beings quickly.   
  
MS. SIMPSON:  That’s right.  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  These are weapons of war that have no place on the
streets of a civil society.   
  
One in five Americans has a family member who has been killed by gun
violence.  The number one cause of death for children in America is gun
violence, not some disease.  Gun violence is the number one cause. 

And when you start looking at the statistics, in terms of our young
people, young Black people in America, it is a crisis of extraordinary
proportion that we should also think about not only in the context of
the — the right to live free from violence, but also in terms of the
importance not only of public safety but public health, because be
clear: We are also talking about a residual impact that is actually a
direct impact, which is about trauma to individuals, to families, and
communities that lingers. 

The fear that communities are experiencing where a mother has to say to
her child, “If gun violence is ringing out in the neighborhood, jump in
the bathtub to avoid a stray bullet.” 

Or how about the fact that our children are — right now they’re on
summer break — K through 12 — but they’re going to start school in the
fall, and one of the first things they’re going to learn, barely before
they learn their teacher’s name or where the bathroom is, is how to hide
in a closet quietly if there is an active shooter in their school. 

Talk about the trauma.  I have met children who have said to me, “I
don’t like going to fifth period.”  And I said, “Baby, why don’t you
want to go to fifth period?”  “Because there’s no class — there’s no
closet in fifth-period classroom.” 

This is real.  Our babies are afraid to be in a classroom where their
backs are to the door. 

And then these so-called leaders, these extremist leaders will say,
“Well, the solution to that is: Let’s have the teacher strap a gun.” 
Are you kidding me?

MS. SIMPSON:  Jesus.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And so, again, though, this has to be about what do
we do in terms of fighting for real leaders who have an understanding
about what is sensible and reasonable.

You know, after — I was just talking to some folks.  After — so the
Tennessee Three — the two Justins and Gloria — so I hope you all saw
that.  (Applause.)   
  
So I was actually at home.  It was — watching the late-night news with
my husband, and I saw what was happening in Tennessee.  And they — these
— the people who run the legislature — so these — the two Justins, in
particular — two young legislators in their 20s, young African American
men, leaders, and they are in the well of the chamber trying to debate
the issue of the need for smart gun safety laws.  They are in the well
of the chamber.

And, you know, for these wells and these chambers and legislators in
legislative bodies, they’re designed for debate.  Literally, the design
is for debate.  They are trying to debate in session.  They’re in
session.  They’re on the microphone trying to debate the need for
reasonable gun safety laws.  And these people turn the mic off on them. 
They turn off the microphone. 

You talk about attacks on our democracy, we’re not even looking for
symbols anymore.  They’re turning off a microphone. 

But this is what I loved about the — this is what I loved about that. 
So these young leaders said, “All right, anybody got a bullhorn?” 
(Laughter.)  And they got a bullhorn — (applause) — to make sure the
voices of the people were heard. 

And you got to love, love, love, love, love that.  (Applause.) 

MS. HOSTIN:  Yes.  Yes.  You — you’ve used your bullhorn quite a bit. 
You’ve used your pulpit quite a bit.  And I know we’ve had this
discussion that, as DA in California, you prosecuted crimes against
women and children.  As a federal prosecutor, I prosecuted child sex
crimes, of course, and child trafficking.  And that always makes you
feel like you’re on the right side. 

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yeah.

MS. HOSTIN:  You’ve also have been such a champion for women’s health,
including reproductive healthcare.  You filed briefs as an AG to protect
access to reproductive healthcare.  As a Senator — I really miss your
Senate debates; I’ll

be really honest with you about that. 

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  “Is there any law that tells a man what he can do
with his body?”

MS. HOSTIN:  I just —

MS. SIMPSON:  That is classic.  It’s so classic.   

MS. HOSTIN:  I just really — I really miss it.

MS. SIMPSON:  So classic.   

MS. HOSTIN:  As Senator, you lead on maternal health and have carried
that forward — also, of course, as vice president.  You’re leading the
administration’s work on reproductive health, as we’ve mentioned before.

We — my question is: It’s such — it sometimes feels like such an
insurmountable topic.  Why is it so important to you?  Why do you think
you’re getting so much pushback?  And where do you see the way forward,
if you can?

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Well, Sunny, first of all, I — you know, as I said,
I feel very strongly that the promise of America will only be achieved
if we are willing to fight for it. 

I love my country.  I believe in its promise.  I’m also very clear-eyed
that we will not see progress if we do not fight for it. 

All of the movements for progress in our country have been movements
where people were prepared to take to the streets, prepared to organize,
prepared to speak loudly with truth about what is happening: all with
the intention of finding solutions. 

And when I look at the work that I did, whether it was being a
prosecutor, to say we need to focus on crimes against women and children
and protect them.  But also when I was DA, I said we need to also do
things like create — I created one of the first initiatives that was
about getting services and jobs and then dismissing cases against young
adults. 

So there is all of that, but there is the work that is ongoing in our
country that is about fighting for progress. 

What distresses me is that the strength of our nation, for the most
part, has been because we have been committed to the expansion of
rights.  And for the first time in a long time, we are seeing very
powerful forces that are engaged in an intentional goal of restricting
rights.  And we’ve got to take this moment seriously — back, Monica, to
the point about frogs. 

And here’s how I also see it: As vice president of the United States, I
have now met with over 100 world leaders — presidents, prime ministers,
chancellors, and kings.  (Applause.)  When we walk into those rooms
representing the United States of America, traditionally we do so chin
up, shoulders back, with the self-appointed and earned authority to talk
about the importance of democracy, rule of law, human rights.  But what
this group — all of us — know, is that the thing about being a role
model is: People watch what you do to see if it matches what you say. 
(Applause.)

MS. SIMPSON:  Say that.  Say that. 

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  And one of my fears about this moment includes that
in places around this world where, for example, women are fighting for
their rights, some dictator, some autocrat is looking at them and
saying, “You want to hold out the United States as your example?  Look
what they’re doing.”  “You want to…” — maybe it’s a different person
saying, “You’re fighting to end corruption in elections?  Look what
they’re doing.  You be quiet.” 

The implications of what is happening in our country not only directly
and, right now, in real time affect all of us as Americans but very
likely affect people around the world. 

So that’s how I think about this moment in terms of what is at stake. 
And I go back to saying we have to fight for the future we deserve.  We
have to fight for a future that we deserve, also understanding that very
foundational principles about who we are as a country are at stake,
including freedom and equality and basic notions of justice. 

And the thing about a democracy — and I’ll just — I’ll end my point with
this: I think there’s a duality to the nature of democracy.  On the one
hand, there’s an incredible strength.  When a democracy is intact, it
lifts up individual rights.  It protects civil rights.  It’s very strong
in that way. 

On the other hand, it’s very fragile.  It’s very fragile.  It will only
be as strong as our willingness to fight for it.  And so fight, we
must.  (Applause.)

MS. SIMPSON:  Fight, we must.

MS. HOSTIN:  Thank you for that. 

MS. SIMPSON:  I think we’ve heard two really key words come from you,
Sunny, and from you, Madam Vice President.  And the first word that you
said, of course, Sunny, was “vote” — like how important that vote is. 
And then you followed up by talking about organizing.  And so voting is
powerful when we organize. 

And one of the powerful things I love about organizing as a cultural
strategist and someone who’s deeply rooted in culture work as a — as a
means to really move the masses and to really dismantle systems of
oppression — and we’ve had this conversation, Madam Vice President —
there is such a power in using the culture — right? — to be a tool to
make those movements happen. 

We’ve seen you on the Parking Lot, right?  We have seen you convene
really powerful influencers that represent, you know, television shows,
from actors to musicians.  Like they really have the pulse of the
people.  And I truly believe that some of our elected officials are
learning from you that policy alone, without using culture to actually
shift hearts and minds of people, don’t really make the — doesn’t really
make the mark for us. 

So can you talk to us — because, you know, we are in the room, in the
epicenter of Black culture this weekend.  And there’s a lot of folks in
here, in particular Black women — how y’all doing? — (applause) — who
are in this room, who want to take action.  They want to protect their
rights.  They want to be able to move and channel their energy in very
intentional ways. 

What are some — some of your ideas as to how we can do that?  And how
important do you think culture is, in particular, to help us do that?

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Well, I think culture is — it is a reflection of
our moment in our time, right?  And — and present culture is the way we
express how we’re feeling about the moment. 

And — and we should always find times to express how we feel about the
moment that is a reflection of joy, because every — you know, it comes
in the morning.  (Laughs.)  We have to find ways to also express the way
we feel about the moment in terms of just having language and a
connection to how people are experiencing life.  And I think about it in
that way, too. 

And we also — I think, is very important that — that leaders — anyone
who considers themselves a leader — really understands how anything they
say would affect a real human being, as opposed to — you know, otherwise
be a poet and write poetry.  But if you want to understand — I don’t
mean to dismiss poetry at all.  But if you want to understand any
concept, you have to ask questions like, “How would this affect a
child?”  To have a real understanding of what it is that you’ve
proposed. 

And culture helps us do that, because you sit down with Keke Palmer and
you’re going to have a real conversation about — (laughs) — about a
variety of issues. 

But I think it’s so important also just to be present.  We have to be
present. 

And in this moment, I think there’s a perversion in some ways about what
it means to have strength.  Some people would suggest that it is a sign
of strength based on who you beat down, when I think most of us know the
real sign of strength is based on who you lift up.  (Applause.) 

And so, all that we can do that is about that is, I think, in
preservation and in the purpose of growing our strength.

MS. HOSTIN:  Now, we’re really almost at the end of our program.  I do
want to shout out to the men also in our audience. 

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Absolutely.

MS. HOSTIN:  I see my dear friend, Ben Crump —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Absolutely.

MS. HOSTIN: — in the front row, who has done so much for our community. 
(Applause.) 

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  We see you.

MS. HOSTIN:  We appreciate you, Ben. 

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  There’s Rev. Sharpton. 

MS. HOSTIN:  Oh, look at Reverend Sharpton —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Look at him!

MS. HOSTIN:  — in the front, right over there next to —

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Look at you!

MS. HOSTIN:  — next to Sade Baderinwa.

See, I don’t wear glasses on TV, but I can’t see anything.  (Laughter.) 
She knows this now. 

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Roland Martin.

MS. HOSTIN:  Roland Martin.  Roland is at — where is Ro-Ro? 

MS. SIMPSON:  First of — all the — all the cool dudes is up front.  We
see y’all brothers.  Okay. 

MS. HOSTIN:  Standing by women.  So we thank you for that.

One last question, if you’ll allow it.  I often get asked after I’m on
air and I give speeches around the country, “What can I do to help?”  I
have a platform of 3 million people a day.  You have a platform of
millions and millions and millions and a hundred world leaders.  What
can people sitting in the audience today do?  What is their call to
action?

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  I — you know, we — we network well, as evidenced by
the fact that we’re all here right now together.  And I would urge
everyone here to think about your networks as a way to empower each
other, to share the stories, to share information. 

You know, one of the concerns that I have truly is — is the level of
misinformation that is out there.  And so, what we can do to reinforce
the truth and spread that truth.  This is — these are hundreds and
hundreds of opinion leaders here together. 

And so thinking about the networks — be that through — through your
church, through your sorority or fraternity, through whatever civic
organizations and nonprofits that you’re a part of — I think it’s
important to really be active in those organizations and continue to
grow those networks. 

Because part of what is happening when we see these attacks is they have
the effect, which I think often is intended, to make people feel alone. 
And it’s important to remember that we are all in this together.  It is
important to remember that our voices are so important, and we should
never allow anybody to silence those voices.  (Applause.)  And using our
voice individually and in connection with our networks is a very
powerful way of organizing and building into the movement. 

And all said and done, this is — the reality is that they’re — all of
the people upon whose shoulders we stand and honor every day of the
year, they carry the baton for the time they had it, and then they
passed it to us. 

And the question is going to be: What did we do while we were carrying
the baton?  (Applause.)  And I don’t think anyone expects that we’re
necessarily going to finish the race, but the measure will be: What did
we do while we were carrying the baton? 

And so, let’s stay organized and stay in touch with each other and hold
each other up.  It’s so important, and it’s so powerful to do that. 
(Applause.)

MS. HOSTIN:  Well, thank you for giving us the honor — 

MS. SIMPSON:  Oh my god.

MS. HOSTIN:  — of facilitating this conversation, Madam Vice President. 

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Thank you.  (Applause.)

END
