---
date: '2023-07-25'
modified_time: 2023-07-31 10:52:52-04:00
published_time: 2023-07-25 10:43:21-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/07/25/remarks-as-prepared-for-delivery-by-first-lady-jill-biden-at-the-unesco-flag-raising-ceremony/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks as Prepared for Delivery by First Lady Jill\_Biden at the UNESCO Flag-Raising\_\
  Ceremony"
---
 
Bonjour! Good afternoon.  
  
Director General. Madame Macron, Minister Attal, Minister Abdul Malak,
your excellencies, distinguished guests:  
  
I am honored to join you today as we raise the flag of the United
States—a symbol of our commitment to global collaboration and peace.   
  
The United States is proud to join as a member state of UNESCO.  
  
Madame Director General, you’ve worked long and hard to help us realize
this goal. Thank you.  
  
To Forest Whitaker and all of our UNESCO Goodwill Ambassadors: we are
all grateful for your tireless efforts on behalf of this organization.  
  
Over the years, my husband and I have had the opportunity to get to know
President and Madame Macron. We were honored to host them for our first
State Visit at the White House last December. Brigitte, that will always
be one of our best memories.  
  
Your friendship always reminds us that what we have in common can
transcend language and culture—and that’s what I’d like to talk to you
about today: connections and the education that makes them possible.  
  
When my husband, President Biden, took office two and a half years ago,
he made a promise to the American people: That he would rebuild the
systems that were broken and fortify our institutions, that he would
work to bring divided communities back together, that he would put us on
a path to a better, brighter future while restoring our leadership on
the world stage.  
  
And he did.  
  
He made sure all Americans could get the vaccines they needed. He safely
reopened our schools and put people back to work with more than 13
million jobs created. He invested in green technology that will help
build the sustainable economy we need—and made sure students could get
trained for those jobs.  
  
For some, that would be enough—to take care of our own. But not for my
husband.  
  
President Biden understands that sickness can travel across oceans.  
  
That a war in Europe can empty grocery shelves across the world.  
  
That the smoke from wildfires can cloud a whole continent.   
  
And so, he ensured that we became partners in global vaccine
initiatives. He built a coalition of more than 140 countries to stand
against Putin’s unjust war. He rejoined the Paris Climate Agreement on
his first day in office and continues to bring nations together to
address the climate crisis.  
  
He’s harnessed the power of institutions across the United Nations to
collectively address global food insecurity, violence, and human rights
violations.  
  
Injustice and corruption; poverty and hunger; climate disasters and
disease—these things aren’t contained by borders.  
  
Some of the biggest challenges of our time cannot be solved in
isolation.

Of course we need to take care of our own citizens. But we’re also a
part of a global community.  
  
When we take our seat in that coalition, we can fight for our
values—like democracy, equality, and human rights.  
  
President Biden understands that if we hope to create a better world,
the United States can’t go it alone—but we must help lead the way.   
  
That’s why we’re so proud to rejoin UNESCO.  
  
Because, in my opinion—and sure, as a teacher, I’m a little
biased—education is one of our greatest shared tools in shaping our
future for those who will come after us.  
  
Every generation inherits the world in its own time. Today, almost half
of the world’s population is under the age of 25. And they are feeling
the pain of the challenges we face.   
  
It’s young men and women who fight in our wars—who grapple with the
aftermath. Young parents who are asked to sacrifice their education to
care for families. It’s young people who carry the heaviest weight of
unemployment and poverty—who will face more of the deadly consequences
of climate change.  
  
But with their passion and potential, with their hope and heart, youth
can lead us all to a better future.  
  
I saw that in Kenya more than ten years ago, when I met a woman named
Aliyah. At just 25, she was raising a son in a one-room, tin-roof home
in Kibera, the largest urban slum in Africa. There was no electricity—no
running water.   
  
But she spent her day teaching girls about teen pregnancy—about sexual
abuse and rape. The topic was taboo—but the conversations were
powerful.  
  
I asked her if she wanted to leave Kibera. But she said, “No, this is my
home. I want to make a difference here.”  
  
I saw it when I talked to displaced teenagers in Ecuador last year.
Their families had fled brutal violence in Venezuela—but they dreamed of
returning home to rebuild their country.   
  
And I’ve seen it in my own classroom, again and again.  
  
As a writing teacher at a community college, I teach refugees and
veterans and single parents trying to juggle school and jobs and caring
for their families.  
  
At the start of the semester, they’re strangers, often nervous about
speaking up in class or sharing their writing. But soon, we get to know
each other. We share stories and laugh.   
  
I make them write poetry—and there’s usually a student who tells me: No,
no way, he’s not writing poetry. But he always does. And it’s always
incredible.  
  
We become a community.  
  
They offer to babysit for one another and give rides to class. They find
their voice and realize a confidence that they never knew was inside of
them. They teach me so much. And they go out to share those big ideas
with others—to build good lives and give back when they can.

Young people are our future. But they are also our present. 

And when we give them what they need to thrive—clean water and air, good
schools and job opportunities, safety and mental health support—they’ll
show us the world through new eyes.   
  
They’ll raise strong families and give back to their neighborhoods.  
  
They’ll use their voices and fight for the future we all want and
need.  
  
Education is a powerful key to that future. It changes us—so we can go
on to change our world together.   
  
Everyone deserves that opportunity.  
  
It was in that spirit that UNESCO was created. To spread ideas and open
minds. To give people the tools to thrive—whether it’s protecting
freedom of expression or trying to better understand our oceans or
shaping standards on artificial intelligence. To preserve our treasures,
so we can remember the history that makes us who we are. To show us that
our differences are precious and our similarities infinite.  
  
Yes, we’ve seen that the perils of our present cannot be contained by
borders. But goodness and hope can spread, too.  
  
The beauty of art that speaks to our hearts.  
  
The reverence we feel when we step into a temple and learn how ancient
people worshipped and lived.  
  
The scientific discoveries that reveal the reaches of the universe or
the microscopic systems of our own cells.  
  
The new ideas that pass from person to person like a flame—growing
brighter without diminishing its source.  
  
Seven years ago, as Second Lady, I joined this organization here in
Paris to help launch UNESCO’s TeachHer program. It aimed to educate
girls who have too often been left out of classrooms, and get them
excited about STEAM.  
  
Later that month, I traveled to Costa Rica, where one of the first
TeachHer programs was going to be launched.  
  
And I met two teen girls—Stefhanie and Erika—who showed me their science
fair projects, their smiles lighting up with so much pride. Stefhanie
told me that some people thought science was just for men—but at her
school, just as many girls loved it as boys.   
  
I never forgot their passion. So, when I returned to Costa Rica last
year, I invited them to meet with me again.  
  
Stefhanie told me she was studying Food Engineering and had been
selected as a finalist in a contest by the Institute for Food
Technology.  
  
Erika was working in a microbiological analysis lab—and looking towards
earning her master’s degree in that field.  
  
Having the opportunity to study science and explore their interests
changed the course of their lives. And UNESCO makes that possible for so
many young women. Now, just imagine the number of people that they will
teach and inspire. It’s a ripple of promise that has no end.   
  
Together, let’s empower the next generation of thinkers and dreamers and
doers, helping them unleash their possibility.  
  
The challenges of our times—from authoritarianism to climate
change—create an uncertain future. But what is certain is the
possibility still inside of us to innovate, to cooperate, to discover
new solutions.   
  
It’s up to us to realize that future together.  
  
Thank you.

\###
