---
date: '2023-07-11'
published_time: 2023-07-11 14:22:48-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/07/11/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-in-roundtable-discussion-on-the-americans-with-disabilities-act/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris in Roundtable Discussion on the Americans\
  \ with Disabilities\_Act"
---
 
*Indian Treaty Room  
Eisenhower Executive Office Building*

1:08 P.M. EDT

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Secretary Buttigieg.  (Applause.)  Thank
you.  Appreciate it.  Thank you.  
  
As we have blind and low-vision folks here today, I will describe what I
am wearing.  I’m wearing a lavender-color suit and a flag pin, and
seated here with all of the colleagues and friends at a U-shaped
table.   
  
Thank you, Secretary Buttigieg, for your work, for your leadership, as
we know when we think about this movement — which is the fight for the
rights, the dignity, for equality, equity for folks with disabilities —
the issue of transportation is a very foundational and fundamental one. 
And you have been a great leader on this and many other issues through
your role of leadership of the Department of Transportation.  So I thank
you for that.  
  
Representative — former Representative Tony Coelho will be joining us
when he gets through security — (laughs) — I believe downstairs.  But —
but it is important to recognize his longstanding leadership on this
issue.  And he continues to be a fighter for all of these rights.   
  
So to everyone here, I thank you again.  There are many longstanding
colleagues and friends in this movement.  And thank you again for — for
accepting the invitation to have this important discussion, and as I
said before the press came in, for my benefit, mostly so I can hear from
you and understand and get feedback from you about the status of where
we are in terms of the movement and where we have yet to go.  So I want
to thank you all for that.   
  
So let’s start with a fundamental point: Every person in our nation has
a fundamental right to participate fully in our society and to determine
their own future, the right to self-determination, the right to
dignity.   
  
And we, as members of a civil society, have a duty.  It is not about a
whim or a desire, but a duty to ensure that that promise is a reality
for all people in our country.   
  
And it is with that spirit that we approach this movement, this work,
this fight, and this convening today.  
  
And the fight for disability rights — Tony Coelho, a great leader in
this fight — has been a fight longstanding for dignity and for
opportunity and for self-determination — the right of self-determination
of all people.   
  
So this month, we, of course, celebrate then a milestone in that fight,
which is the 33rd anniversary of the passage of the Americans with
Disabilities Act.  And, of course, we can’t celebrate these last 33
years with also remembering Judy Heumann, who, of course, we lost this
year, who was a tireless champion.  And we will always remember her as
being present, actually, always in the work that we are doing.   
  
So we celebrate, today and this month, the progress that we have made,
but we also then recommit clear-eyed to the work that we still have yet
to do.   
  
People with disabilities still face incredible challenges in
participating fully in our society.  And we have to be responsible and
truthful about where we are and what we must yet do.  
  
Voting rights, for example: I was proud to convene a group of many of
the leaders who are here — many, many months ago — to discuss, on the
issue of voting rights, how folks with disability are directly impacted
by laws that are being passed in various states that, in my opinion,
many are intentional in the desire to make it more difficult for people
to vote, not to mention the status quo before those laws, which has
created incredible obstacles for people with disabilities to be able to
exercise their legal right to have a voice in the future of their
country and their government.   
  
I’ve heard stories of polling stations, for example, without ramps. 
I’ve heard stories of individuals going to the polling place asking for
a private place where they can then, in a private way, register and
submit their vote, and having to have the courage — which we shouldn’t
have to require people to speak in a crowded room — about the need to
have accommodations, not being given the dignity to just go in and have
those accommodations and be able to vote.  
  
On reproductive healthcare — and we know that since the Dobbs decision,
which took that constitutional right from the people of America to make
those kinds of decisions for themselves and not have the government
decide what is in their best interest — on this issue, we have heard and
have learned and know about the disproportionate impact of reproductive
restrictions on people with disabilities.   
  
For example, for people who live in states that have essentially banned
access to reproductive healthcare, the challenges that are then
presented in terms of, again, Secretary, the need to be able to then
travel to another state where they will have access to that reproductive
healthcare, and the requirement that then is imposed on them of trying
to figure that out through mechanisms that may not be friendly to or
adaptable to their specific needs.  
  
Small businesses: A lot of the work that we’ve been doing with small
businesses takes into account that we have to — we have to address the
barriers to access to capital that folks and small-business owners with
disabilities face.    
  
What am I talking about there?  There is still bias in the system around
making decisions about who should have access to capital based on some
false assumption about who could actually run a small business, who
could actually do the work of growing a small business, are they
capable.   
  
Some very fundamental issues are at play in terms of the work that we
still have to do to have a society that treats all people fairly and
equally.   
  
And then, of course, one of the most recent issues that has been a topic
of discussion around our country among many people: the issue of AI. 
So, let’s think about that in terms of algorithms that are being written
and employed for a variety of decisions that are being made, including
employment decisions, and how ingrained bias — because it still exists
in our society — about folks with disabilities can and may be integrated
into those algorithms, in terms of making decisions in a way that could
discriminate against people with disabilities.   
  
So we still have a lot of work to do.  But today is a day to mostly
celebrate the accomplishments that have been achieved since Tony Coelho
and so many at this table have been leading this movement.   
  
And I, again, want to thank the Secretary for your work.  This issue of
transportation is fundamentally about just making sure that people have
the ability to get where they need to go.  It’s that basic.  But we know
the obstacles to that goal can be great.   
  
And, for example, when we think about air travel, as the Secretary
mentioned, a majority of domestic flights still have no accessible
restrooms.  When we think about the stories that I’ve heard of
individuals with disabilities, knowing that they may not be able to
access the restroom on a plane, and what they must do to deprive
themselves of food or liquids for hours and hours before that flight,
out of concern that they may need to then take care of themselves but
have no access to the ability to do that because that restroom on that
plane just does not physically allow that to happen.   
  
This is an issue fundamentally, again, about what is morally right and
what is right in a society where we say that we prioritize and value the
dignity of each human being to be able to live a full life.   
  
So, with that, I want to thank everyone.  Again, the solutions are at
hand.  We’re going to be announcing some of those solutions very
soon.   
  
But, in conclusion, I would say that an accessible America is a better
America.  And — and I want to thank everyone for your leadership.   
  
And, Tony, would you mind — I know this is a bit off-script, but would
you mind sharing some of your thoughts before we get into the rest of
the meeting?  
  
MR. COELHO:  Thank you, Madam Vice President.  I’m sorry, everything
went wrong today.   
  
First off, I just — I was prepared to say that this is the most
pro-disability administration that I have ever seen, and I’ve been
involved in seven different administrations.  Nobody comes close.   
  
And you start with President Biden.  He was one of the original sponsors
of the ADA.  Vice President Harris was very involved in disability
issues when she was attorney general, when she was a U.S. senator, and
now — what she does now, in regards to all kinds of different issues
that she’s talked about, the same way.  She is very aggressively
supportive of our efforts, and we appreciate that.   
  
Secretary Buttigieg — I’ve known him.  And I went up to him one time
when he was speaking, and I said, “I’m very impressed.  You’re going to
go someplace at some point.”  (Laughter.)  And now, here I am sitting
with him in this — on the President’s Cabinet, which I’m very happy.   
  
Transportation, as the Vice President said, is a critical, critical,
critical issue for our community.  And to have people that oriented
towards that and the staff that you have, Pete, is — I think it’s
fabulous, and I applaud you for it.   
  
So, with all that, the only last thing I’ll say is: Carmel Martin I’ve
known for six years.  She works her tail off — sorry — she works hard in
making sure that our community is included in everything that we’ve
wanted.  So, I appreciate her as well, and I think our community should
know that.   
  
Thank you, Madam Vice President.   
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Thank you, the great Tony Coelho.   
  
And with that, I’ll thank the press for being here, and we’re going to
now begin our meeting.  Thank you. 

END                  1:19 P.M. EDT
