---
date: '2023-07-16'
published_time: 2023-07-16 21:22:43-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/07/16/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-at-the-rainbow-push-coalition-convention/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris at the Rainbow PUSH Coalition\_Convention"
---
 
*Apostolic Church of God  
Chicago, Illinois*

3:00 P.M. CDT  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Good afternoon.  Good afternoon.  Good afternoon. 
Please have a seat.   
  
I said to the Congressman: I didn’t know he could preach like that. 
(Applause.)    
  
Oh, good afternoon, everyone.  I want to thank the Congressman for that
extraordinary presentation — (applause) — and for his work.  I recently
had the Congressman at my home for dinner.  And we talked about his
father, and we talked about his vision, as the son of the father, for
the future of our country.   
  
And I have seen him at work when the cameras are on and when the cameras
are off in Washington, D.C., doing the work of representing his
district.  And he truly, truly is a national leader.  Thank you,
Congressman, for that introduction.  (Applause.)  
  
I want to thank Dr. Byron Brazier and First Lady for the warm welcome
here — (applause) — at <s>Apostolitic</s> \[Apostolic\] Church of
God.   
  
I want to thank Mayor Brandon Johnson, who I knew could not be with hu-
— us today, but he has been a true champion for working families, and I
want to recognize him.  (Applause.)  
  
And to the members of Congress who are here, the state and local elected
leaders, and all of the folks who are part of the leadership of this
beautiful community and our nation, I thank you.  And for that warm
welcome, thank you.  (Applause.)   
  
I also must and — and it is my joy to congratulate Reverend Dr. Freddy
Haynes.  (Applause.)  So, I have known him and worked with him for over
20 years, including when we worked together years and years ago in the
early days of the criminal justice reform movement.  And I am so
confident in his leadership and his ability to carry on the greatest
traditions of this organization and to meet the challenges of this
moment.  Congratulations, Reverend Haynes.  (Applause.)  
  
And now, to my friend, our friend, our great leader, Reverend Jesse
Jackson, and his incredible family, including Mrs. Jackie Jackson: I
want to thank you all for the leadership that you continue to provide. 
Yours is a family of service and sacrifice and always inspiring the
people around our nation.  And I thank you for that.   
  
And a special thank you to Santita.  Where is Santita?  Santita and I
were students at Howard University together — (laughs) — (applause) —
and she was a leader on campus back then.   
  
So, it is good to be with everyone.   
  
So, today we celebrate one of America’s greatest patriots, someone who
deeply believes in the promise of our country, a fighter for freedom and
human rights for all people.  At the core of Rev’s work is the belief
that the diversity of our nation is not a weakness or an afterthought,
but instead, our greatest strength.  
  
In his life’s work, he has reinforced that no matter who we are or where
we come from, we have so much more in common than what separates us. 
The — the point is that if we as a society are to come together, to work
together, to fight together in common cause for the freedom, rights, and
justice of all people, we must make our communities stronger.  We must
build a stronger nation.  And, as a result, we will have a stronger
democracy and a stronger world.   
  
And it is with this understanding, this vision to see what can be
unburdened by what has been, that Rev has dedicated his life to building
that coalition, from Washington, D.C., to California; from the
Mississippi Delta to Appalachia; from South Africa to the South Side of
Chicago.  (Applause.)  He has and continues to bring together people of
all backgrounds: Black Americans, Asian Americans, Latino Americans,
farmers, LGBTQ+ Americans, Native Americans, women, labor union members,
people with disabilities, our young leaders, and people around the
world.  (Applause.)  That has been the work of Reverend Jesse
Jackson.   
  
And early on — just think about it.  Early on, he even had the audacity
to name this coalition the National Rainbow Coalition.  (Applause.) 
Think about that.  He defined the rainbow.  He was one of the first to
define the rainbow.  
  
A coalition to push the values of democracy and liberty and equality and
justice not from the top down, but from the bottom up and the outside
in.  (Applause.)  He has built coalitions that expanded who has a voice
and a seat at the table.  And in so doing, he has expanded our democracy
— the democracy of our nation.   
  
And he has done this work his whole life, always understanding that
being clear-eyed is so important and, in particular, the importance of
living in a way that we understand we must be present if we are to have
a future.   
  
He has always been clear-eyed about the moment we are in.  Think about
it.  As an 18-year-old, at the height of segregation, Rev brought people
together at the Greenville Public Library sit-in.  (Applause.)   
  
And he continued this work around the country and around the globe,
whether it was to expand rights for farmworkers and increase wages for
care workers, to increase access to capital for small-business owners,
to make boardrooms on Wall Street reflect the diversity of our nation,
or to help end the sin of apartheid, to help secure the relief of
hostages, and empower entrepreneurs across the United States and the
continent of Africa and the world.   
  
This is the span of his work — (applause) — and it is the span of his
vision of what an individual can do to move forward our nation and the
world.   
  
And I will tell you: Rev’s work inspired me from a young age to
understand the power of the coalition.   
  
So, I grew up in a neighborhood of hardworking folks — nurses and
firefighters and construction workers and teachers — in Oakland and
Berkeley, California.  I was raised by parents who met while they were
protesting for civil rights in the 1960s and who would take me to those
marches while I was in a stroller.  At the earliest stages of my life, I
recognized the power of standing in solidarity at a protest or a picket
line.   
  
And later, I saw the power of Rev’s coalition when I was in law school. 
So, when I was in law school, I was back in California after I left
Howard, and I drove a Toyota Corolla.  (Laughter.)  It was a fancy car
for me.  (Laughter.)  And I had a bumper sticker in the back window:
“Jesse Jackson for President.”  (Applause.)  
  
And so I would drive back and forth from Oakland, where I lived, to San
Francisco, where I went to school.  And I would drive across the Bay
Bridge, if anybody knows the Bay Area.  And I’ll tell you, I was so
struck and impressed when the first time that I did that drive with that
bumper sticker, the number of truck drivers and people in other cars who
would honk their horn or throw a thumbs-up sign, people of every walk of
life.  (Applause.)  
  
And I was so struck by that coalition that I saw, as we were all
commuting to and fro, who understood Rev’s vision: one in which all
people can dream about their future with ambition and aspiration, no
matter the color of their skin, the place of their birth, the God they
worship, or the people they love.   
  
That has always been part of the strength and the brilliance of Rev’s
work.  Those folks, I believe they were honking and throwing a thumbs-up
in favor of fighting for freedom and for opportunity.   
  
Powered by his vision and the coalition that believed in it, Re- — Rev
ran for president in 1984, and again in 1988, winning 13 primaries, from
South Carolina to Alaska.  (Applause.)  Let us remember that.   
  
And like Shirley Chisholm 12 years before, Rev has widened the path for
generations that would follow, including President Barack Obama —
(applause) — and me as the first Black woman to serve as Vice President
of the United States.  (Applause.)  I am clear about that.  I am clear
about that.   
  
And even before I served as vice president, throughout my career, I
often worked with Rev to do the work of — of — of taking his direction
on how we should expand the coalition.  As District Attorney of San
Francisco, I worked with him to bring together law enforcement in the
community so we could save people and help people have their voice be
present around the injustices that were occurring and also do what we
should do to be smart in terms of how we achieve public safety.   
  
As Attorney General of California, I worked with him on consumer
protection issues, and in particular, because I took on and sued the big
banks of the United States during the foreclosure crisis, and Rev was
right there with his leadership — (applause) — supporting homeowners of
America in terms of protecting their right to the American Dream.   
  
And as a United States senator, I was proud to work with Rev as we did
the work that we have an ongoing mission to do, which is to secure the
right to vote for all people.  (Applause.)   
  
And then in — and then in 2020, we worked together with folks across our
country to mobilize that same coalition to organize and to register
voters.  And as a result, Joe Biden and I went to the White House. 
(Applause.)  
  
So more than 60 years after that first sit-in at that library in
Greenville, Rev has remained tireless in the fight to expand voting
rights, to encourage innovation and partnerships across the continent of
Africa, and to secure economic justice for all Americans.   
  
So, we congratulate you, Rev, on your pivot.  (Laughs.)  (Applause.)  I
got the memo.  (Laughs.)   
  
And as President Biden said today, Rev: You are a man of God, and you
are a man of the people.  And we thank you for all that you are. 
(Applause.)  
  
And so, in the spirit of your ongoing work, Rev, I do believe that it is
critically important that we who have been inspired by your leadership
take on our responsibility to see clearly the moment we are now in.  And
let us acknowledge that the fight is more important than ever. 
(Applause.)  Because, Church, in this moment across our country, we are
witnessing hard-fought, hard-won freedoms under full-on attack by
extremist so-called leaders.   
  
And these extremists have an agenda — an agenda to divide us as a
nation, an agenda to attack the importance of diversity and equity and
inclusion and the unity of the Rainbow Coalition.  These extremists
wrote legislation and brought litigation to the United States Supreme
Court — the court of Thurgood — (applause) — in 2013 in Shelby v. Holder
to destroy hard-fought, hard-won rights around the — the legitimate
responsibility a government has to ensure that the people have
unfettered access to the ballot.   
  
They laid the groundwork for the Dobbs decision last year, when the
Court took away a constitutional right, that had been recognized, from
the people of America, from the women of America.  Took the right of
every woman to make decisions about her own body, not having the
government tell her what she’s supposed to do.  (Applause.)  
  
These extremists went back to the Supreme Court.  And last month, the
Court cut off access to opportunity when they gutted affirmative action
and student debt relief.  (Applause.)   
  
And these extremists won a case that allows businesses to discriminate
against the American people.  State by state across our nation, these
extremists banned books, in the year of our Lord 2023.  (Applause.) 
They banned books and prevent the teaching of America’s full history. 
(Applause.)  All the while, they refuse reasonable gun safety laws to
keep our children safe.  (Applause.)   
  
Understand what’s happening.  Let us understand the moment we are in. 
And we know, in these dark moments, history shines a light on our
path.   
  
And so, in this moment, let us all understand the history and the
significance of Rev’s work and his approach.  Just as Rev has shown, our
ability to stand together is our strength.  Our ability to unify as many
peoples is our strength.  And the heroes of this moment will be those
who bring us together in coalition; those who know that one’s strength
is not measured based on who you beat down, but who you lift up. 
(Applause.)  
  
So, let us stand together, united and strong, knowing as Rev has always
understood: We refuse to throw up our hands when it is time to roll up
our sleeves.  (Applause.)   
  
And as the great Coretta Scott King taught us: The fight for civil
rights must be fought and won with the each and every generation.  And,
alas, that is our work.  And our gains will not be permanent if we are
not vigilant.   
  
And as we know from Romans Chapter 5, Verse 5, “Hope does not disappoint
us.”  (Applause.)   
  
So, fueled by the love of our country, just as Rev has done his entire
career, let us keep hope alive.  (Applause.)  Let us keep hope alive. 
Let us march.  Let us vote.  Let us fight, knowing when we fight, we
win!  (Applause.)  
  
May God bless you, and may God bless America.  Thank you.  (Applause.)  
  
END                       3:19 P.M. CDT

\###
