---
date: '2023-07-19'
published_time: 2023-07-19 17:41:14-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/07/19/remarks-by-president-biden-in-meeting-of-the-white-house-competition-council/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden in Meeting of the White\_House Competition\_Council"
---
 
State Dining Room

3:28 P.M. EDT

THE PRESIDENT: Please, stay seated. Stay seated. Thank you. Hello,
everybody. Good afternoon.

The reason we’re late: It’s all my fault. I know that’s a shock. But I
must tell you, I couldn’t resist. Two of the — the children of a man and
a woman who got me started in — back in 1972 — it was actually 1970 —
were in town, and I showed them the office. And I apologize for keeping
you waiting. I really am.

Look, this Competition Council is an important part of Bidenomics, my
plan to build an economy from the middle out and the bottom up. And I
think it’s working. I think it’s working.

For example, over the past year, we’ve seen a dramatic decline in
inflation. It dropped by two thirds — down to 3 percent — at a time when
unemployment has been below 4 percent for the longest stretch in 50
years. I’ve rejected the notion that the reason for inflation is — the
only way you get inflation down is reduce employment and/or reduce
wages.

Remember, the experts said: To get inflation under control, we need to
lower those wages and drive up unemployment. But I’ve never bought that.

I don’t think the problem in America today is too many people working or
working people are making too much money.

Instead, we focused on getting America into the workforce — Americans
into the workforce by fixing a broken supply chains and lowering costs.

The fact is, companies made record-high profits during the pa- — the
pandemic. And now those costs are coming down and so is inflation.

We need to keep bringing down the mark-ups and their margins and
continue making progress on inflation.

And promoting competition helps lower cost as well.

Now, I’ve said this before: I’m a capitalist, but I have no problem with
companies making reasonable profits. But it’s got to be a fair
competition for that to occur.

Before I took office, more than three quarters of the American
industries had become more concentrated than they are — than they were
before. Often, just a handful of companies dominate the marketplace.

Bidenomics is about increasing competition, not — not stifling
competition. When companies have to compete, it means lower prices,
fairer wages, and more innovation.

That’s why, two years ago, I signed an executive order to create this
council to increase competition and lower costs for American households.

For example, we made hearing aids available over the counter for as
little as $200 a pair, instead of thousands of dollars, and capped the
price of insulin at $35 on — those on the Medicare, and thus saving
folks hundreds of thousands of dollars over time.

You know, we aim to — we’ve — we’re taking aim at non-compete clauses,
which prevent 30 million Americans — from security guards to retail
workers — from getting jobs in the same field. And there’s no rationale
for that. It’s not like they have trade secrets.

And we’re cracking down on junk fees across industries, including
banking, concert, airlines, and junk health insurance plans.

Folks are tired of being played for suckers. They’re just tired of being
played for suckers. And it’s about basic fairness.

Today, we’re taking more action.

First, the Department of Agriculture — and you’ll hear from the
Secretary in a moment — together with bipartisan attorneys general in 31
states and the District of Columbia are ramping up enforcement of
antitrust and consumer protection laws in food and in agriculture.

For example, just four supermarket companies control over a third — a
third of the market nationwide. And it’s even more concentrated at the
local level, where consumers have been — have had even fewer stores to
choose from.

Groceries in consolidated markets will charge you more because you have
nowhere else to shop.

Now, the Department of Agriculture and partners in the states are going
to make large corporations — making sure they cannot artificially raise
food prices through price fixing and price gouging.

Second, we’re cracking down on hidden junk fees in rental housing. Folks
at home know having to pay $100 or more just to fill out a rental
application, even though the credit check can cost as little as $20. The
application fees can be a profit center for landlords.

Some accept applications from hundreds of potential tenants, far more
than they could seriously consider renting to, just to collect these
fees. And then some charge surprise fees just to pay your rent online or
fees for services that should be included in rent, like mail sorting and
pest control. It’s simply not right, and we’re going to move on it.

Now, several real estate companies serving tens of millions of renters,
including Zillow, Apartments.com, AffordableHousing.com — they have
joined us to take action against these junk fees. They’re updating their
websites to show renters all the hidden fees up front so you can know
the full cost before they sign a lease.

Third, this morning, the Department of Justice and the Federal Trade
Commission released their new Merger Guidelines. Anti-competitive
mergers can hurt people and drive up costs as well.

For example, hospital mergers have led to price increases of 20 percent
or more. Health insurance mergers have caused presium \[sic\] — premiums
to go up 7 percent on average.

All told, this kind of industry concentration costs the typical American
household an estimated $5,000 a year.

And I’ve said when I signed the executive order, we cannot accept bad
mergers that lead to mass layoffs, higher prices, and fewer options for
workers and consumers.

I’ll close with this: To get this meeting started, I’ve said before:
Capitalism — I’ve said it before, capitalism without competition isn’t
capitalism; it’s exploitation.

And I’m grateful to this Competition Council as we keep building on this
momentum to reduce cost and deliver more results for the American
people.

With that, I’m turn it over to Secretary Vilsack. Mr. Secretary.

3:35 P.M. EDT
