---
date: '2023-07-20'
published_time: 2023-07-20 19:54:56-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/07/20/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-at-the-delta-sigma-theta-sorority-inc-national-convention/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris at the Delta Sigma Theta Sorority, Inc. National\_\
  Convention"
---
 
Indiana Convention Center

1:56 P.M. EDT

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Good afternoon, everyone.  (Applause.)  Oh, I am so
honored and pleased and joyful to be with you this afternoon.  Please,
have a seat.

Oh, what a wonderful, wonderful day.

I want to thank President Elsie Cooke-Holmes; the National Board of
Directors of Delta Sigma Theta Sorority, Incorporated; and my Divine
Nine sisters, the ladies of Delta Sigma Theta.  Good afternoon to you
all.  (Applause.)  
  
Madam President, I want to thank you for your kind words.  You have been
a phenomenal leader of this organization.  You and I and our other
Divine Nine leaders have spent a lot of time together in Washington,
D.C., and around the country.  I have seen firsthand your leadership. 
It is an honor to be here with you this evening — afternoon.  Thank
you.  (Applause.)  
  
So, I will say also that President Joe Biden and I have many
extraordinary leaders in our Cabinet.  But as many here know, there is
only one Marcia Fudge.  (Applause.) 

(Laughs.)  And I just — I’m going to talk about her for a minute.  Her
entire career — whether as a mayor, a member of the United States
Congress, a national president of Delta Sigma Theta, and now as the
Secretary of Housing and Urban Development — Marcia Fudge has been a
champion for the people of our nation.  And she is a dear friend to me. 
Thank you, Marcia Fudge.  (Applause.)  
  
So it is so wonderful to be here this afternoon with all of the leaders
who are present — including, of course, the great Cheryl Johnson, who
you will honor today.  (Applause.)

So as a proud member of the Divine Nine, through Alpha Kappa Alpha
Sorority, Incorporated: When I look out at all of you, I see family.

Like my sorority — Delta Sigma Theta, Incorporated — was founded to
build networks of support for young Black college women, to fortify the
bonds of sisterhood, to serve our nation and the world, and to create
desperately needed social and legal change.

  
And let’s think back to what was happening the year this storied
organization was founded.  In 1913, women were not guaranteed the right
to vote.  There was not a single Black person in the United States
Congress.  And in that year, more than 50 Black Americans had been
lynched.  And that’s only the number that was documented.   
  
And yet, despite all of this and perhaps because of it, the founders of
this sorority believed in the power of sisterhood, scholarship, and
service, and that they could help make real the promise of America — a
promise of equality, freedom, and justice, not for some, but for all.   
  
And so, history tells us: Just two months after its founding, the
members of Delta Sigma Theta marched with thousands through the streets
of Washington, D.C., to demand the right for women to vote. 
(Applause.) 

And 60 years ago this summer, in 1963, Deltas from across our country
were part of the March on Washington.  Side by side with Roy Wilkins and
John Lewis and Reverend Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. — (applause) — were
two members of Delta Sigma Theta on that stage: Ms. Dorothy Height —
(applause) — indeed — and one of the few women to speak that day, Ms.
Daisy Bates.  (Applause.)  
  
And history, of course, will not let us forget that day the famous Delta
Days was inaugurated in 1989 — (applause) — when, every year since,
Deltas from across America convene in Washington, D.C., to uplift the
issues of the moment.   
  
In fact, I remember walking through the halls of Congress when I served
as a United States senator to see that powerful sea of red and then to
joyfully host the California delegation in my Senate office. 
(Applause.)  
  
So, that short summary of history that led us then to 2020, when, during
the height of a pandemic, with a fierce commitment to our future, the
leaders here registered thousands to vote, led efforts to combat voter
suppression, and with our Divine Nine brothers and sisters, strolled to
the polls.  
  
You showed up.  And helped elect Joe Biden President of the United
States — (applause) — and me as the first Black woman to ever serve as
Vice President of the United States.  (Applause.)  And so, I thank you,
all the leaders here, for all you do.  
  
We all share a vision and a stake in the future of our nation — a stake
and a vision in a nation where we believe all people, no matter who they
are or where they start, should have the freedom to dream with ambition
and where all people have access to opportunity.   
  
The great Congresswoman Barbara Jordan, a Delta and an American icon —
(applause) — she once said of leadership, and I quote, “The imperative
is to define what is right and to do it.”  What is right: having the
courage and conviction to confront the challenges we face, confront them
head on, and deal with them.   
  
So, let’s consider then the moment that we are presently in.  Well,
before the President Biden and I took office, for years, too many of our
seniors could not afford the medication they needed to survive. 
Together, we all here declared what we know to be right: that in the
United States of America, seniors should not have to choose between
putting food on the table and filling their prescription.  (Applause.) 
And so, President Biden and I capped the cost of insulin for our seniors
at $35 a month.  (Applause.)  
  
For years, parents and grandparents across our nation have cried out
about the harm of lead pipes, that half of the children in our country
under the age of si- — six are at lead exposure.   
  
So, we all declared what we know to be right: Every child and every
person in our nation should have clean water to drink.  And today, we
are finally on track to remove every lead pipe in America. 
(Applause.)  
  
For years, our HBCUs have been underfunded, even though — (applause) —
even though our HBCUs are centers of outstanding academic excellence. 
(Applause.)  So, when we took office, we did what we all know to be
right.  President Biden and I invested nearly $7 billion in our HBCUs —
(applause) — which is an investment in the future leaders of our
nation.   
  
For years, our nation has ignored the crisis of maternal mortality —
Madam President, you spoke of that — that before, during, and after
childbirth, women in America die at a higher rate than in any other
wealthy nation in the world, and that Black women are three times as
likely to die.  
  
And so, when President Biden and I took office, we did what was right
and made maternal health a national priority — (applause) — and expanded
postpartum care through Medicaid from 2 months to 12 months, expanded it
from 3 states to 35 states — (applause) — to the benefit of a half
million more women in America.  
  
For far too long, our justice system has been in urgent need of reform. 
Too often, bad actors have not been held accountable, including those
who are sworn to protect and serve.   
  
So, when we took office, we did what we know to be right.  President
Biden and I banned chokeholds and restricted no-knock warrants by
federal law enforcement.  (Applause.)  And because we know much more
must be done, we continue to work with civil rights leaders, law
enforcement officials, and the leaders in this room to advance reforms
that will build public trust and true public safety for all
communities.  
  
For far too long, our justice system has not fully reflected the
diversity of our nation.  So, when we took office, President Biden and I
have appointed more Black women to the federal appellate courts than any
other administration in history combined — (applause) — including, of
course — (laughter and applause) — the first Black woman to ever sit on
the highest Court of our land and your newest member, Justice Ketanji
Brown Jackson.  (Applause.)  
  
It’s a good day.  (Laughter and applause.)  
  
So, all of this to say: The leaders in this room helped to make all of
this progress possible.  And by creating a new era of impact for this
historic organization, you will continue to help lead our nation
forward.  And for all of that, I thank you.  And I am also here to
declare: We have more work to do, being clear-eyed — (applause) — being
clear-eyed about the moment we are in and the challenges we face.

We can see, right now in our country, so many of our hard-won freedoms
are under full on attack.  
  
Just consider: Last year, the highest Court in our land, the historic
Court of Thurgood, took a constitutional right that had been recognized
from the people of America — from the women of America.  And since then,
in extremist measures, extremist leaders in states across our nation —
states like Indiana — have passed laws that criminalize doctors and
punish women. 

And on this issue, I know we are all clear: One does not have to abandon
their faith or deeply held beliefs to agree the government should not be
telling a woman what to do with her body.  (Applause.)  And yet, today,
on this subject, extremists pass laws with no exception even for rape or
incest.   
  
Now, as many of you know, I started my career as a prosecutor and I
specialized in violent crimes against women and children.  It is simply
immoral that after someone has survived an act of incredible violence
and violation to their body, that they do not get to decide what happens
to their body next.  That is immoral.  (Applause.)  
  
Hard-won freedoms are under attack.  
  
Just consider: Today, in states across our nation, extremists attack the
freedom to vote.  They pass laws that ban drop boxes and limit early
voting — laws that make it illegal to simply give somebody food and
water while they stand in line for hours to cast their ballot. 
(Applause.)  
  
Extremists pass laws that target our friends and neighbors because of
who they are and who they love.  And at this moment in our country, we
just witnessed the United States Supreme Court strike down affirmative
action, give businesses the right to discriminate, and deny debt relief
to millions of Americans with student loans.

All the while, these same extremists, in most cases, refuse to pass
reasonable gun safety laws to keep our children safe.  (Applause.) 

And speaking of our children, extremists pass book bans to prevent them
from learning our true history — book bans in this year of our Lord
2023.  And while they do this, check it out, they push forward
revisionist history.  Just yesterday, in the State of Florida, they
decided middle school students will be taught that enslaved people
benefited from slavery. 

They insult us in an attempt to gaslight us, and we will not stand for
it — (applause) — we who share a collective experience in knowing we
must honor history and our duty in the context of legacy.  
  
There is so much at stake in this moment: our most basic rights and
freedoms, fact versus fiction, foundational principles about what it
means to be a democracy.  
  
And so, in this moment, our nation again counts on the leaders in this
room — those who stand on the great shoulders of the great American
leaders like Ida B. Wells, Dorothy Height, and Shirley Chisholm —
(applause); who, with courage, determination, and fortitude continue to
organize, build coalitions, and activate our communities.   
  
Let us continue to stand together and fight for what is right.  
  
Because we do know: It is right to fight for the freedom of every woman
to control her own body — not her government.  (Applause.)  It is right
to fight for a future in which every person can live free from
discrimination and hate.  It is right to fight for safe communities.  It
is right to fight for paid leave and clean water and affordable
childcare.  It is right to fight to pass the John Lewis Voting Rights
Advancement Act and the Freedom to Vote Act.  It is right to fight
against book bans and the truth.  (Applause.)

So, Delta Sigma Theta, let us fight fueled by the love of our children. 
Let us fight fueled by the love of our country.  And let us fight with
the knowledge and the faith that when we fight, we win.  (Applause.)    
  
God bless you.  And God bless the United States of America.  Thank you
all.  (Applause.)  
  
END                  2:15 P.M. EDT
