---
date: '2023-07-21'
published_time: 2023-07-21 15:21:38-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/07/21/remarks-by-president-biden-on-artificial-intelligence/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden on Artificial\_Intelligence"
---
 
Roosevelt Room

1:18 P.M. EDT  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  I’m the AI.  (Laughter.)  If any of you think I’m Abe
Lincoln, blame it on the AI.  
  
First of all, thanks.  Thanks for coming.  And I want to thank my
colleagues here for taking the time to come back again and again as we
try to deal with the — we’re joined by leaders of seven American
companies who are driving innovation in artificial intelligence.  And it
is astounding.   
  
Artificial intelligence or — it promises an enormous — an enormous
promise of both risk to our society and our economy and our national
security, but also incredible opportunities — incredible
opportunities.  
  
Just two months ago, Kamala and I met with these leaders — most of them
are here again — to underscore the responsibility of making sure that
products that they are producing are safe and — and making them public —
what they are and what they aren’t.  
  
Since then, I’ve met with some of America’s top minds in technology to
hear the range of perspectives and possibilities and risk of AI.  
  
Kamala can’t be here because she’s traveling to Florida, but she’s met
with civil society leaders to hear their concerns about the impacts on
society and ways to protect the rights of Americans.  
  
Over the past year, my administration has taken action to guide
responsible innovation.  
  
Last October, we introduced a first-of-its-kind AI Bill of Rights.  
  
In February, I signed an executive order to direct agencies to protect
the public from algorithms that discriminate.  
  
In May, we unveiled a new strategy to establish seven new AI research
institutes to help drive breakthroughs in responsible AI
<s>innovention</s> \[innovation\].  
  
And today, I’m pleased to announce that these seven companies have
agreed volun- — to voluntary commitments for responsible innovation. 
These commitments, which the companies will implement immediately,
underscore three fundamental principles: safety, security, and trust.  
  
First, the companies have an obligation to make sure their technology is
safe before releasing it to the public.  That means testing the
capabilities of their systems, assessing their potential risk, and
making the results of these assessments public.  
  
Second, companies must prioritize the security of their systems by
safeguarding their models against cyber threats and managing the risks
to our national security and sharing the best practices and industry
standards that are — that are necessary.  
  
Third, the companies have a duty to earn the people’s trust and empower
users to make informed decisions — labeling content that has been
altered or AI-generated, rooting out bias and discrimination,
strengthening privacy protections, and shielding children from harm.  
  
And finally, companies have agreed to find ways for AI to help meet
society’s greatest challenges — from cancer to climate change — and
invest in education and new jobs to help students and workers prosper
from the opportunities, and there are enormous opportunities of AI.    
  
These commitments are real, and they’re concrete.  They’re going to help
fulfill — the industry fulfill its fundamental obligation to Americans
to develop safe, secure, and trustworthy technologies that benefit
society and uphold our values and our shared values.  
  
Let me close with this.  We’ll see more technology change in the next 10
years, or even in the next few years, than we’ve seen in the last 50
years.  That has been an astounding revelation to me, quite frankly. 
Artificial intelligence is going to transform the lives of people around
the world.  
  
The group here will be critical in shepherding that innovation with
responsibility and safety by design to earn the trust of Americans. 
And, quite frankly, as I met with world leaders, all — all — all our
Eur- — all the G7 is focusing on the same thing.  
  
Social media has shown us the harm that powerful technology can do
without the right safeguards in place.  
  
And I’ve said at the State of the Union that Congress needs to pass
bipartisan legislation to impose strict limits on personal data
collection, ban targeted advertisements to kids, require companies to
put health and safety first.  
  
But we must be clear-eyed and vigilant about the threats emerging — of
emerging technologies that can pose — don’t have to, but can pose — to
our democracy and our values.    
  
Americans are seeing how advanced artificial intelligence and the pace
of innovation have the power to disrupt jobs and industries.  
  
These commitments — these commitments are a promising step, but the — we
have a lot more work to do together. 

Realizing the promise of AI by managing the risk is going to require
some new laws, regulations, and oversight.  
  
In the weeks ahead, I’m going to continue to take executive action to
help America lead the way toward responsible innovation.  And we’re
going to work with both parties to develop appropriate legislation and
regulation.  I’m pleased that Leader Schumer and Leader Jeffries and
others in the Congress are making this a top bipartisan priority.  
  
As we advance the agenda here at home, we’ll lead the work with — we’ll
lead work with our allies and partners on a common international
framework to govern the development of AI.  
  
I think these leaders and — I thank these leaders that are in the room
with me today — (clears throat)  — and their partnership — excuse me —
and their commitments that they’re making.  This is a serious
responsibility, and we have to get it right.  And there’s enormous,
enormous potential upside as well. 

So I want to thank you all.  And they’re about to go down to a meeting,
which I’ll catch up with them later.

So thank you, thank you, thank you.  
  
1:24 P.M. EDT
