---
date: '2023-07-20'
published_time: 2023-07-20 16:09:31-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/07/20/remarks-by-president-biden-on-bidenomics-philadelphia-pa/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden on Bidenomics | Philadelphia,\_PA"
---
 
Philadelphia Shipyard  
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania

1:07 P.M. EDT

THE PRESIDENT: Hello, Philly! Have a seat if you have one. (Applause.)

Emily, thank you for that introduction.

I tell you what, Mayor Kenney, thanks for the passport back into the
city. I think the only reason why it was allowed to happen is I married
a Philly girl.

You know, they can’t be here today but I want to thank Governor Shapiro,
who’s doing a hell of a job, and to my friends Senator Bobby Casey and
Senator Fetterman, who have been such great partners to me. (Applause.)

Folks, I want to also thank Representative Mary Gay Scanlon, who fights
so hard for this district, and to the other members of Congress, Brendan
Boyle, Chrissy Houlahan, Madeleine Dean, Joe Courtney. I tell you, the —
oh, Donald Norcross, by the way. Donald from across the way.

You know, I always kid Donald when — (inaudible). (Applause.) You know,
Delaware is small, so we have to fight for every inch of territory. So,
there was a debate on whether or not — whether Delaware — the state of
Delaware owned the Delaware River along the Delaware shore up to the
highwater mark in New Jersey.

And they said, “No.” We went to the Supreme Court, and it got something
right. They said, yeah, we do. Anyway. (Laughter.) I always kid them all
the time.

Folks, look, before I begin, I want to say we’re praying for those who
lost their lives in the flooding in Bucks County. The idea that there’s
not global warming, I think, can’t be denied by anybody anymore. And —
at any rate.

We’re grateful to all the first responders continuing to look for
two-year-old Mattie and her — her baby brother Conrad. With the grace of
God, maybe something will come of it.

I want to thank Governor Shapiro and all the Bucks County officials and
their leadership during that tragic time. We provided all we could from
FEMA, but there’s a lot to be done.

I’m here today to talk about what we’re doing to invest in America,
invest in Pennsylvania, invest in our clean energy future — and to talk
about the progress we’ve made building an economy from the middle out
and the bottom up.

You know, I came to office determined to strengthen the middle class. I
often say — and I mean it sincerely — you know, Wall Street — good folks
down there, but they didn’t build the middle class, they didn’t build
America. The middle class was built by the middle class, and unions
build the middle class, and it changed the economic direction of this
country.

Because we — I got tired of trickle-down economics. I’ve never been a
big fan. If the wealthy do very well — I’m a capitalist. I like the
wealthy to be able to be wealthy. But if they — the mere fact they do
well doesn’t mean that everybody else does well.

I watched my dad growing up. There was not a whole lot of benefit
trickled down on his kitchen table as a consequence of trickle-down
economics to what everyone from the Financial Times to the Wall Street
Journal has become my change — my — a different philosophy. They — I
don’t — I don’t think they started off trying to be complimentary, but
they started calling it “Bidenomics.”

And our plan is working — Bidenomics. And here — (applause).

And here’s what it looks like. Over 13 million new jobs built across the
country and nearly half a million of them here in Pennsylvania just in
the last two and half years. Eight hundred thousand manufacturing jobs,
twenty-eight thousand here in Pennsylvania alone in the last two and
half years.

That’s more jobs in two years than any president has created in a
four-year term. Unemployment is been below 4 percent — the longest
stretch of unemployment below 4 percent in the last 50 years.

We’re beginning to come back, folks. We can because we’re giving workers
a chance.

Unemployment is down. But to the surprise of a lot of economists, so is
inflation.

Remember the story? In order for inflation to come down, you got to cut
wages for hardworking folks, you got to have unemployment up in order
for inflation to come down.

Well, guess what? I never bought that. I don’t think the problem in
America is that too many people are working or that people are making
too much money.

Instead, we’ve focused on getting Americans into the workforce by fixing
a broken supply chain, lowering the cost of product on everything from
healthcare to the products we purchase.

The fact is companies made record-high profits during the pandemic. And,
by the way, I’m not opposed to the companies. I come from the corporate
capital of the world. More — more corporations are incorporated in
Delaware than every other state in the Union. But everybody should pay
their fair share. Everybody should pay their fair share.

Now they’re coming down, and so is inflation. We need to keep bringing
it down — mark-ups and the margins of their profits. It’s one thing to
make a profit; it’s another thing to be excessive.

You know, this is one of the most important ways to continue to make
progress on inflation.

While we have more, inflation has slowed every single month in the last
12 — on a yearly basis for the last 12 months. How many times did you
read that inflation — that a recession is coming? They even — in the
Wall Street — today said they don’t see a recession coming now.

It’s the lowest point — inflation — the lowest point in over two years.

The U.S. has the lowest inflation rate of any major economy in the world
— the so-called G7. It’s less than two thirds of what it was a year ago
— down from 9 percent to 3 percent — and going to go down lower.

At the same time, pay for low- — low-wage workers has gone up at a
faster pace in over two decades. Wages are growing faster than
inflation. That means a lot of working folks are beginning to be able to
have a little — just a little bit of breathing room.

According to the surveys, job satisfaction in America is at a 36-year
high. We got more work to do, but people are coming off the sidelines to
work.

The share of working-age Americans in the workforce is as high as it’s
been in 20 years, including during every single day under my
predecessor.

And, folks, it’s not an accident; it’s my economic plan in action. It’s
Bidenomics.

Since I took office, we’ve attracted over half a trillion dollars — a
half a trillion dollars in private investment in American manufacturing
and clean energy. That’s what’s been attracted to engage in these
issues.

Instead of exporting jobs — it used to be: find the cheapest market in
the world, send the job overseas, and bring the product back. Not on my
watch. Right here, we’re doing — we’re creating jobs in America, and
we’re exporting American products. (Applause.)

With the leadership of your Democratic members of Congress, we passed
the Inflation Reduction Act — although a few Republicans did support it
— the largest investment to combat the climate ever — ever anywhere in
the world. All of $368 billion.

We know the urgency. I don’t hear many naysayers on climate deny the
floods, the heatwaves, the wildfire smoke impacting so many Americans
just this week alone. It’s just spontaneous.

But we also have solutions. A lot of my friends in organized labor know:
When I think climate, I think jobs. I think union jobs. Not a joke.
(Applause.) Not a joke.

And this law is creating millions of good-paying clean-energy
manufacturing jobs, including offshore wind.

When I took office, I set a goal of producing 30 gigawatts of offshore
energy wind by 2030. Thirty gigawatts is enough to power 10 million
homes, and it’ll help put us on a path to 100 percent clean energy
\[electricity\] by 2035. By 2035, all of electricity — you turn on any —
is all going to be clean energy.

It’s not hypothetical. Construction is already underway in two major
projects on — off the East Coast. And just within the last month, the
Department of Interior advanced permitting on two more wind projects on
the East Coast.

And here in the Philly Shipyard, Great Lakes Dredge & Dock is also
stepping up to help meet the clean energy goals.

Here today, workers from nine different unions will start building a
vessel called the Acadia. It’s going to place heavy rocks at the base of
the offshore wind projects to stabilize them when they put these down,
and it’s going to project — protect it against erosion.

It will be the first vessel of its kind that’s made in America —
American owned, American operated. (Applause.) And the rocks will come
from American quarries, and it’ll be loaded at American ports.

Steel for a vessel is being made by the United Steelworkers in Indiana.

The engine will be made by the United States Electrical, Radio and
Machine Workers in Pittsburgh.

The crew is going to be American marin- — mariners from Seafarers
International Union. (Applause.)

The turbines themselves will be as tall as the buildings in Center City,
Philadelphia. That’s how big they are. And the blades: 110 yards long. I
went to see them being made in Colorado. It was breathtaking.

And I might add, notwithstanding what the other guy said, windmills do
not cause cancer. (Laughter.)

Look, some folks may not know there was a law in 1920 called the Jones
Act that was passed. (Applause.) It says ships traveling between U.S.
ports have to be American-built, American-owned, and have American
crews. But there are some content to rely on ships built overseas
without American crews to operate them.

Again, not on my watch. (Applause.)

We’re strengthening the American shipbuilding, supporting good union
jobs, and bringing offshore wind supply chains  
back home.

Before the pandemic, “supply chain” wasn’t a phrase that most Americans
ever thought about. But today, after delays in parts and products,
everybody knows what a supply chain means and why they matter.

Our Investing in America agenda is bringing our clean energy supply
chains home.

Since I took office, we’ve seen more than $16 billion in new offshore
wind investments, including 18 offshore wind vessels, 12 manufacturing
facilities, and 13 ports.

Today, we announced the first-ever offshore wind sale in the Gulf of
Mexico. We’re going to the Gulf. You think I’m kidding. (Laughs.) Ain’t
seen nothing yet. (Applause.)

Across the Delaware River in Paulsboro, New Jersey, workers are welding
the steel foundation for another large-scale wind project. That’s going
to create more than 3,000 good-paying jobs.

A project off the coast of New York will use a vessel built in the
shipyards of Louisiana, Mississippi, and Florida and rely on an
electrical substation engineered in Kansas and made in Texas.

The Inflation Reduction Act offers tax credits for projects using
American-made iron, steel — manufactured products so our clean energy
future will be made in America. (Applause.) I mean it.

And all this investment — you know it better than any group of people I
could be talking to — all this investment means good-paying jobs here at
home — here at home.

We’re making sure these new jobs come free and fair and the ability to
join a union if you’re not already in one. (Applause.)

I made a commitment that I’d be the most pro-union president in American
history — (applause) — and I’m keeping that promise.

Let me explain why. I met with the Business Roundtable, the leading
businessmen in the nation. And they asked me, “Why?” I said, “Because
it’s good for you.”

I tell businesses all the time: Union workers are the best in the world.
You don’t just say, “By the way, I want to be an electrician. Here’s my
license.”

The young woman I just — you just heard, she’s not an electrician, but
guess what? Four to five years of apprenticeship. It’s like going back
to school. It’s like going to college for four years.

You do the job right. They do it on time. And long term, it costs less
than non-union labor. (Applause.)

And here at the Philly Shipyard, over a thousand union workers will be
employed onsite like metalworkers, boilermakers, electricians. In fact,
this shipyard runs an apprenticeship program giving workers the skills
to do these jobs. They can earn up to $100,000 a year, and you don’t
need a college degree.

Just a few years ago, this shipyard was down to a handful of workers —
because these guys know I’ve been coming here for a long, long time —
since 1973 — (applause) — when it was the Navy Shipyard. And a lot of us
wondered whether it would still be here, didn’t we? A lot of us wondered
15, 10, 12 years ago. Well, let me tell you: It’s coming alive again.

Just this week my administration completed a review for a potential wind
project off the coast of Rhode Island and Connecticut. It’s part of the
national project labor agreement with the building trades. And I want to
thank the AFL-CIO President Liz Shuler for personally getting that done.

Together, we’re transforming the country not just through — not just
through manufacturing, but also rebuilding our infrastructure.

We need to have the best infrastructure in the world if we’re going to
lead the world. We used to be number one. We now rank number 13 in the
world in highways, bridges, electro- — how can we be number one in the
world economically?

You can’t have the best economy without having the best infrastructure.
So, the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, which a number of our colleagues
did vote for on both sides of the aisle — I’ve already announced 35,000
projects in 4,500 communities all across America, proving we can do big
things.

By the way, right here, in Philly, we’re going to build billion-dollar
tunnels underneath the water as you go from Amtrak station heading
north. It’s going to increase the speeds of trains. They’ll be able to
go through it 100 miles an hour instead of 30.

And guess what? When you get to point A to point B and you can do it on
rail and leave your car home, people leave their cars home. It saves
money, saves the environment.

There’s no better example than here in Philadelphia: A tanker truck
crashed and closed a key stretch of I-95 last month. You remember that.
A hundred and fifty thousand vehicles cross that part of the highway — a
hundred and fifty thousand every single day.

With the leadership of Governor Shapiro, Casey, Fetterman, Boyle,
Kenney, it opened in less than two weeks. Do you hear that? Two weeks.
(Applause.) Congratulations, Mr. Mayor.

I mean, think about it. All kidding aside. When I was — we were saying
that on the — when — on the bridge, people were looking at us like, “Oh,
God. Here they go again.” It’s a record time.

And guess what? It used materials from right here in Pennsylvania — all
that crushed glass, all that ba- — I mean — and it was done with union
work.

Also announced $78 million for safety improvements along Roosevelt
Boulevard here in Philly, from North Broad to the Bucks County line.
Between 2012 and 2021, accidents along that stretch of highway killed
119 people and I don’t know how many injured. A hundred and nineteen
died.

Nearly one in three Philadelphians lives within a mile of there, meaning
thousands of families will benefit when we make that a hell of a lot
safer.

Removing every single lead pipe in America, including an estimated
20,000 lead pipe lines here in Philadelphia and thousands — and
thousands of lead pipes in school fountains all across America,
including here in Philadelphia. They’re a risk to everyone’s health,
especially our children.

We’re making investments like this in communities all across the
country, in red states, blue states. It doesn’t matter; I’m President
for everybody. I said that no matter whether they voted for me or
against me, I would make sure we changed this.

You can see exactly where this — this money is going if you’re
interested. Go to — online, go to Invest.gov, and find out what’s
happening in your community, because that — that — you know, we talked
ab- — remember “Infrastructure Week”? (Laughs.) Well, we have
“Infrastructure Decade.” (Applause.)

And guess what? It’s committed 1 trillion 300 billion dollars. And guess
what else? I lowered the federal deficit by 1 trillion 700 billion
dollars in the first two years. You can do both. (Applause.)

You know, the reason I’m saying this is we’ve operated on principles
that aren’t — having been working.

My Investing in America agenda also had another transformative impact.
All those members of Congress who voted against the bill suddenly
realized it’s pretty good. And they’re bragging about it. (Laughs.) I
find it interesting.

As you may have seen — apparently 40 million people watched — Marjorie
Taylor Greene, the very conservative gentlelady from the state of
Georgia, said, “Biden is doing things like Roosevelt,” and — and it goes
on the line as if it — “creating these jobs, and he thinks that…” I
thought that was — I’ve never had an endorsement from her before.
(Laughter and applause.)

But all kidding aside, every Republican — every single Republican voted
against the Inflation Reduction Act. And now many are trying to repeal.
You know, and it was — in order — the whole reason for the act was to
repeal the clean energy provisions. That’s why they voted “no.” But it
didn’t stop them from claiming credit now that billions of dollars and
thousands of jobs are coming to their states.

And then there’s the distinguished senator from Alabama, a former coach
of a winning football team at University of Alabama: Senator Tuberville
— you know, the one who’s blocking the nominations of America’s finest
military leaders, jeopardizing our national security over a domestic
social issues.

Well, he’s also strongly opposed to the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law.
And now — I listened to him on television. He voted against it, and
here’s what he says now: “Great to see Alabama receive critical funds to
boost ongoing broadband efforts.”

I thought he thought it was a bad idea to invest in that. But now it’s
coming to Alabama and, hot damn, boy, it’s a good thing.

Look, I’m glad the senator is coming around on the Infrastructure Law,
but I’m not going to let up until he comes around on the critical
military nominations as well.

Let me close with this. I’m not here to declare victory; we got a long
way to go on the economy. But I’m here to say we have more work to do.
We have a plan that’s turning things around pretty quickly.

“Bidenomics” is just another way of saying “Restore the American Dream.”

Forty years of trickle-down economics in Democrat and Rep- — Republican
administrations limited the dream to those at the top.

But I believe every American willing to work hard should be able to get
a job no matter where they live — in the heartland, in a small town, in
big cities — to raise their kids on a good paycheck and keep roofs
overhead with a — where they grew up, be able to stay there.

My dad used to have an expression — and I swear to God, this was the
expression, as the kids were growing up. He’d sa- — and this was how
he’d say it. He’d say, “Joey, a job is about a lot more than a paycheck.
It’s about your dignity. It’s about your dignity. It’s about respect.
It’s about being able to look your kid in the eye and say, ‘Honey, it’s
going to be okay.’” And he meant it.

He never got to go to college, but he meant it. He worked like hell.
Jobs are about dignity.

That’s the American Dream. That’s Bidenomics.

It’s rooted in what always worked best for this country: investing in
America, investing in Americans. Because when you invest in our people,
you strengthen the middle class, we see stronger economic growth that
benefits everybody. The rich still do very well, and they should be able
to do well.

When I-95 shut down last month, nobody thought we’d have it back open in
less than two weeks. But with American ingenuity, American workers, we
proved everybody wrong.

I don’t know about you, but it filled me with pride about what we can do
when we work together. And we worked together on that project.

The same will be true here in Philly Shipyard and with the clean energy
future we’re building across America. It’ll be transformational.

And for thousands of families who rely on good jobs for their project —
these projects create, it means restoring a sense of pride, a sense of
hope, a sense of dignity that got lost somewhere along the way.

For the longest time, we’ve been told to give up on manufacturing in
America. How many times have you heard or read in the paper the last 25
years we can never lead the world in manufacturing again? Well, we are
and we will. We’ll never believe that. I’ve never believed it, and I
don’t think most of you did.

This nation used to lead the world in manufacturing. And we’re going to
do it again.

I know the people of this country. And I can say honestly: I have never
been more optimistic about America’s future than I am this very day. I
swear to God.

I’ve long said to other world leaders — and I know almost everyone of
them personally, met them — it’s never been a good bet to bet against
America. It’s never, never, never. (Applause.)

We just have to remember who we are. We’re the United States of America.
And there is nothing — nothing beyond our capacity if we work together.
(Applause.)

So, God bless you all. And may God protect our troops.

This is a new day. We’re going to — more work to do. We’re going to get
it done. (Applause.)

Thank you.

1:31 P.M. EDT
