---
date: '2023-07-24'
published_time: 2023-07-24 21:18:48-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/07/24/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-at-a-campaign-reception-4/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris at a Campaign\_Reception"
---
 
*Private Residence  
Chicago, Illinois*

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Oh, it is so good to be back.  Let me just say,
it’s always warm, because Desirée always packs the apartment —
(laughter) — every time I have been here.

Desirée is a dear, dear friend of mine and, I know, so many here.  And I
just want to thank you in front of everyone, because, truly, I actually
cannot count the number of times I have stood either here or it was over
at that window or it was in that room — (laughter) — in various parts of
your apartment where you have brought in your friends and colleagues to
support the work that I have done over the years. 

And so I want to thank you in front of everyone, Desirée, because it’s
so wonderful — I think we all know that in our personal lives and
careers — when people are on the journey with you through all of the
cycles.  And — and you have been that friend.  Can we hear it for
Desirée?  (Applause.)  Thank you.

And I want to thank John.  Where are you?  (Laughter.)  John, who is
always and has equally been supportive over all these years, and
including hosting me at the office.  I want to thank John.

I want to thank Les Coney.  And then he is also here with his son and
daughter and their friend.  And I want to thank him. 

Elzie Higginbottom, where are you?  Thank you for — thank you.  Elzie
came over to my house for dinner recently.  We had a wonderful
discussion with a number of business leaders.  And I really do
appreciate your friendship.

Trish Rooney, where are you?   (Applause.)  Okay, we’ll applaud Trish. 
And Jane Saks.  Thank you again — (applause) — and for your longstanding
support.  There you are.  Okay. 

I also want to recognize — I think he has been recognized — but Jaime
Harrison, the chair of the DNC.  There you are, Jaime.  (Applause.)  I
saw him in the back room.  And I just — I wanted to thank him, also, for
the incredible first quarter, that the President and I were able to
announce, of fundraising.  That takes a lot of work behind the scenes. 
That’s a lot of traveling around the country.  And, Jaime, I think that
you deserve an extraordinary amount of credit for what you do behind the
scenes every day to lift up the Democratic Party and all we stand for. 
(Applause.)  Thank you for that. 

And then, Representative Raja Krishnamoorthi, I want to thank you. 
(Applause.)  And he has not only his son, but his parents are — who are
here.  Auntie, Uncle, it’s good to see you as well.  (Applause.) 
(Laughs.)

So, with that, I really am here for a couple of reasons, but first and
foremost, to thank everyone. 

You know, when we think about where we are right now — and we are
looking, of course, at the ‘24 election, in terms of what’s ahead of us
— I think it’s very important to also reflect on what we have
accomplished to get us to this point.  And so I want to start by
thanking everyone here for what you did in 2020. 

You know, I just left giving a speech at — Unidos is having its annual
conference.  And there were, I don’t know, almost 2,000 people there
where we talked about building the coalition and what we do to support
each other.  And when I think about what the people in this room did in
2020, it was extraordinary, and it bears reflection for a moment.

During the height of a pandemic, when people were upended in terms of
the personal loss they suffered, the loss of life, loss of normalcy,
loss of jobs; when people were overwhelmed by what it required in terms
of just figuring out how to educate their own children at home — with
all of that happening, you all kept pushing and doing the work of
encouraging your neighbors and your colleagues and your friends and
family to stay involved and be involved to understand what was at stake
and that they could actually do something about it and it would matter. 

And it is because of your belief in our country and your optimism and,
dare I say, your grit that we were then able to accomplish what we did
in 2020, which was record turnout in terms of voters, and in particular,
young voters.    
  
And because of that work, we can stand here today, two and a half years
later, and talk about transformational accomplishment. We can talk
about, for example, an infrastructure bill. You know, that previous guy
talked about “Infrastructure Week,” “Infrastructure Week.” (Laughter.)
Kept marking it on my calendar; it never came.  
  
And what we have done to transform our country and upgrade our
infrastructure — infrastructure that, in many cases, is over 150 years
old.  And I want to stress what that means.  It’s not only about the
jobs that it created — extraordinary jobs for our building trades
brothers and sisters — for what we need to do in terms of the small
businesses.  Seventy percent of small manufacturers have 20 or fewer
employees.  Right?  So, small businesses who we are bringing
manufacturing back to the United States to help build up our
infrastructure.   
  
All of that — and then let’s not forget what that means to the
individual.  Understand that across our country, how many people cannot
afford to live where they work and have to commute to work, sometimes
hours at a time, driving over bridges and roads that are falling apart —
what that might mean in terms of a flat tire, what that means in terms
of coming out of pocket because your car insurance doesn’t cover it. 
And the average American is a $400 unexpected expense away from
bankruptcy.  
  
Understand from the macro to the, arguably, micro how this work has been
transformational.  Think about it in the — on the context of the climate
crisis.   
  
You know, Doug and I have two 20-somethings.  And when we talk about our
young leaders — I have been convening college students and college-age
young people around the country.  They are scared to death about the
climate crisis.  They have shared with me a term I hadn’t heard before. 
I said, “Tell me how you all are talking with each other about it.” 
They use the term “climate anxiety,” their fear to even think about
having a family or buying a home because they don’t know what the world
will be like in the next 10, 15, 20 years.   
  
Because of your work, our administration, by my calculation, is dropping
over $1 trillion over the course of the next 10 years in building a
clean energy economy, which is about — it’s about resilience, it’s about
adaptation, it’s about jobs, and it is about investment in a new economy
where America and the United States will be a leader in the context of
the globe.   
  
Think about the work that we have done as it relates to continuing our
focus on healthcare.  Well, many of the people here are the reason and
were part of the reason that there was a President Barack Obama. 
(Applause.)  You are — and your work there then led to what people
thought could never be achieved, which is reform of America’s healthcare
system through the Affordable Care Act.   
  
Well, Joe Biden and I came in and said, “We’re going to pick up the
baton where that left off and continue on that path of reforming
America’s healthcare system.”  So, we addressed issues like medical debt
and how many of our seniors in particular have to make a decision about
whether they will put food on the table or fill the prescription a
doctor has said will save their life.  
  
The issue of diabetes.  Who here knows or has a family member who has
diabetes?  Everybody, right?  A Latino is 70 percent more likely to be
diagnosed with diabetes.  Black folks, 60 percent more likely to be
diagnosed with diabetes.  Yet, our seniors have been on the verge of
bankruptcy just trying to figure out how to afford their insulin.   
  
Because of your work in 2020, we have now capped the cost of insulin at
$35 a month for our seniors.  (Applause.)  This is transformational.   
  
We have now said, finally — we’ve been fighting it — for it for years —
and finally, because of Joe Biden, me, and our administration, we are
now allowing Medicare to negotiate drug prices, and we will cap the cost
of prescription medication for our seniors at $2,000 a year.   
  
Transformational — transformational what we have done.  
  
Highlighted during the pandemic about saying everyone should have access
to high-speed Internet and it should be affordable.  We are in the
process of laying the wire, doing the work.  Like there was a plan years
ago around electrification of America, that is our plan for high-speed
Internet.  (Applause.)  
  
We are doing the work of responding, because of the work you did in
2022, to grandmothers and grandfathers that forever have been saying,
“There is lead in those pipes.  It is toxic and it is hurting not only
the health of our children, but their learning ability.”  Because of
your work in 2020, we are now on the path in the next eight years to get
rid of all of the lead pipes in America.  (Applause.)  
  
And then just today, on the economy, well, you’ve been hu- — hearing us
talk about Bidenomics.  You’ve been hearing, you know, the Wall Street
Journal, “Well, there’s talk about Bidenomics.”  Well, Bidenomics is
working.  And what you are now hearing today even: “Morgan Stanley
credits” — I’m quoting — “the Biden-Harris economic policies with an
unexpected surge in the economy.”  How about that?  (Applause.)  
  
Because of the work you did in 2020, we came in during the height of a
pandemic and nonetheless have created over 13 million jobs while we have
been in office.  We have created 800,000 new manufacturing jobs.  We
have created more small businesses in any two-year period in the history
of our country  
because of the work you did.  
  
And so, we are back at it again.  (Applause.)  Because our job is not
done, and we have more to do.  And you all get that, and you know it. 
You know how you are making a difference.  And we know we have more work
to do.   
  
We have more work to do when we know and witnessed last year the highest
court in our land — the land of the court of Thurgood and RBG — take a
constitutional right, that had been recognized, from the people of
America, from the women of America.   
  
And, by the way, on that subject, I think we’re all clear: One does not
have to abandon their faith or deeply held beliefs to understand the
government should not be telling her what to do with her body. 
(Applause.)  
  
The Court took that constitutional right.  Congress has the ability to
put it back in place.  And Joe Biden has been clear: When that piece of
legislation is proposed and passed, putting back in the law the
protections of Roe v. Wade, Joe Biden will sign it.   
  
What do we need to do?  We need to win.  And we need to win the House
and the Senate.  And then we can restore those protections, which, right
now, as a result of what has been taken away, is causing countless
people to suffer across our country.   
  
The work that we have to do is about continuing to say that we are going
to stand up against these extremist so-called leaders, who would do the
kind of thing that I had to travel to Florida on Friday to deal with —  
  
AUDIENCE MEMBER:  Thank you.  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  — where they present — they present policy in a way
that is about denying America’s full history, and understanding — I see
Arne Duncan here — understanding what we must do to teach the children
of America the truth and fact.   
  
We are looking at extremism, where they are attacking voting.  One of
the byproducts of your hard work in 2020 is that we had higher turnout
than anybody had seen a long time.  Well, that scared some people.   
  
And almost immediately thereafter, they started passing laws: banning
drop boxes, trying to restrict early voting, passing laws that make it a
crime to give people food and water while they are standing in line to
exercise their civic responsibility to vote.  These are just some
examples of what we are up against.   
  
And the work we have yet to do is to have a Congress and a Senate in
place so we can pass the John Lewis Voting Rights Advancement Act, and
Joe Biden will sign it.  (Applause.)  
  
The mayor is here.  Mayor Johnson, I want to thank you for your
leadership and your friendship.  He came to visit with me in Washington,
D.C., in my West Wing office.  We had an extensive conversation.  And he
has the full support of our administration around what he is trying to
do here, around building up the city and understanding the connections
between — between issues like economic health and wellbeing and reducing
violent crime.   
  
The work that we have to do that also is about saying that we’ve got to
get to a point where we reject a false choice on gun crime that says
you’re either in favor of the Second Amendment or you want to take away
everyone’s guns.  Let’s have reasonable gun safety laws, which means
passing an assault weapons ban, background checks that are universal. 
(Applause.)  This is still the work that we have to do.   
  
So all of that to say: Elections matter.  All that to say that what we
are doing right now is about continuing on the path that we started
together many, many years ago, but most recently in 2020, which is about
investing in our country, attempting to unify our country in the midst
of those who would try to divide us; and doing the work of strengthening
our country, knowing that we all have so much more in common than what
separates us.  
  
So I want to thank everyone here.  There is so much at stake in this
upcoming election.    
  
And I’ll close with this point.  As your Vice President, I have now met
with over 100 world leaders — presidents, prime ministers, chancellors,
and kings.  The thing about it all is this: When we walk in those rooms
representing the United States of America, we walk in those rooms chin
up, shoulders back, with the earned and self-appointed authority to talk
about the importance of democracy, rule of law, human rights.   
  
But here’s the thing about being a role model: People watch what you do
to see if it matches what you say.  And one of my greatest concerns
amidst all that is obvious is that the impact of those who would fight
against our democracy is not only directly focused on the people of our
country, but, by extension, people around the world — people around the
world who are fighting against a dictator and autocrat, to say: human
rights, women’s rights, freedoms.  And those autocrats and dictators
look at them and say, “Well, you want to hold out the United States as
your model?  Look what they’re doing.  You shut up.”   
  
The fight that we have in front of us now is not only about the people
of Illinois and the people of America.  By extension, the impact of our
work will be global in its expanse.  So we know the responsibility we
have — dare I say, our collective duty — born out of love of our country
and a true and sincere belief in its promise.  And that is what is
before us this time.   
  
I thank you all so very much.  Thank you.  (Applause.)  
  
                          END

\###
