---
date: '2023-07-12'
modified_time: 2023-07-12 13:28:01-04:00
published_time: 2023-07-12 12:08:20-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/07/12/remarks-as-prepared-for-delivery-by-nec-director-lael-brainard-at-the-economic-club-of-new-york/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks as Prepared for Delivery by NEC Director Lael Brainard at the Economic\
  \ Club of New\_York"
---
 
**The Outlook**  
  
It is good to be back at the Economic Club of New York to reflect on the
U.S. outlook. Recent data suggest the current outlook for the U.S.
economy is upbeat. From the data alone, it would be hard to find clues
that the U.S. economy was in the midst of a protracted global pandemic
just two years ago and a war-driven shock to energy and food prices just
one year ago.

Despite repeated forecasts that recession is just around the corner, the
U.S. recovery is solid, and inflation is down. Unemployment has
fluctuated in a narrow band below 4 percent for 17 months in a row—the
longest stretch in 50 years. Labor market outcomes have been unusually
good for the groups of Americans that faced challenges in past
recoveries. The share of working age Americans who are employed has
risen to highs not seen in twenty years—up from lows not seen in 45
years. Real wages are now higher than they were before the pandemic, and
this is particularly true for production and non-supervisory workers who
make up roughly 80 percent of the workforce.

In an important development, the labor market is now in much better
balance than it was even six months ago. American workers have defied
predictions that many would not return to the labor force following the
pandemic. Recent months have seen labor force participation by prime age
workers rise above pre-pandemic levels, and the participation rate for
the overall workforce is now above its pre-pandemic trend. This has
occurred as vacancies and payrolls have moderated.

The economy is defying predictions that inflation would not fall absent
significant job destruction. Just today, we saw new and encouraging
evidence that the U.S. economy is on the path to moderate inflation
accompanied by a resilient jobs market. Annual CPI inflation is 3.0
percent—close to the 2.9 percent average level that prevailed in the
nearly two decades leading up to the financial crisis. Annual inflation
has now declined every month for 12 months in a row. And inflation in
the United States is now the lowest among G-7 nations – for both
headline and core inflation – even as our economic recovery from the
pandemic has been the strongest.

While declines in energy and food prices have been important in bringing
overall inflation back down, core inflation is also declining. Annual
core CPI inflation has now fallen and is projected to decline further as
rents decelerate. The closely watched category of core non-housing
services CPI has run at annualized rate of 3.3 percent over the last six
months, close to the 3.2 percent average from the three decades before
the pandemic and excluding the financial crisis. It will be important
for corporations to continue to bring their markups back down after
having raised them to unusually elevated levels over the past 2 years,
which would help in reducing inflation. The markups associated
with [price-price](https://www.federalreserve.gov/newsevents/speech/brainard20230119a.htm) spirals–
with final goods prices going up by more than input prices – should
unwind if customers become more price-sensitive and firms compete more
intensely for customers.

**Growing the Economy from the Middle Out and Bottom Up—Not the Top
Down**  
  
In sum, this economy is delivering strong results for America’s middle
class—creating good jobs and yielding real income gains, especially for
workers whose earnings have too often not kept up. These economic gains
did not happen by chance, and they will not be sustained absent a
deliberate strategy. President Biden’s economic strategy aims to grow
the economy from the middle out and bottom up—not the top down.

[Bidenomics](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/06/28/remarks-by-president-biden-on-bidenomics-chicago-il/) represents
a fundamental shift from a flawed top-down economic theory that too
often drove economic policymaking in the past. Trickle-down economics
emphasized cutting taxes for big businesses and those at the top, and
held that government should get out of the way. It is now clear that the
benefits from these policies were not broadly shared. While tax cuts for
high-income Americans and corporations [added
trillions](https://www.americanprogress.org/article/tax-cuts-are-primarily-responsible-for-the-increasing-debt-ratio/) to
the national debt, they failed to deliver gains
in [jobs](https://www.americanprogress.org/article/trickle-tax-cuts-dont-create-jobs/),
real [wages](https://www.aeaweb.org/articles?id=10.1257/aer.20130098),
or [investment](https://eml.berkeley.edu/~yagan/DividendTax.pdf).
Economic
inequality [increased](https://www.cbpp.org/research/chart-book-the-bush-tax-cuts),
many communities suffered from
sustained [disinvestment](https://www.brookings.edu/articles/saving-the-heartland-place-based-policies-in-21st-century-america/),
and earnings growth for many Americans [failed to keep
pace](https://fred.stlouisfed.org/graph/?g=16OJN) with the cost of
necessities like health care, housing, and education. Investments in
infrastructure and vital industries stagnated.

Past policies left the American economy vulnerable to a series of
challenges that provide important lessons for present policy. For
instance, China’s state-led approach to its integration into the global
system resulted in
profound [dislocations](https://www.nber.org/papers/w21906) in patterns
of production and manufacturing workforces around the world.
Policymakers failed to take action to counter China’s opaque nonmarket
practices, leaving too many American communities, industries, and
workers particularly vulnerable. America remains among the most open
economies in the world. We are strong supporters of the global
arrangements that America has led. We also now know that for growth to
be broad and sustained, it is vital to make sustained public investments
in our own economic future, to safeguard strong pathways to the middle
class for American workers in communities around the country, and to
ensure our supply chains are diversified.

Similarly, the Global Financial Crisis took a severe economic toll on
the livelihoods and wealth of middle-class Americans. At great cost, we
saw the damage associated with trickle down’s preference for
deregulation and its indifference to the concentration of market power.
It was also a reminder that the labor market scarring associated with
prolonged downturns can have lingering effects.  
  
Most recently, the waves of the global pandemic followed by Russia’s war
on Ukraine revealed fragilities in the supply side of our economy that
contributed to severe shortages and a surge in inflation. Our economy
faced acute constraints on shipping and on the supply of
non-substitutable intermediate inputs like semiconductors. This
experience highlights the importance of investing in the supply side of
our economy to make it more resilient. Efficiency in resource use
remains an important goal, but we now know that resilience is also
needed to prevent and mitigate damaging supply side breakdowns.

We face additional challenges ahead, including those associated with
climate change. We can either adopt smart policy to build the clean
energy economy so that it benefits American workers and communities, or
face the physical and transition risks of climate change that are
affecting every state in the nation. It will be particularly important
to apply these lessons in facilitating a smooth transition to clean
energy and meeting the historic U.S. emissions targets adopted by
President Biden.

President Biden has secured historic legislation to drive change. His
agenda has three pillars: making smart public investments in
infrastructure, semiconductors, and clean energy; educating and
empowering workers; and promoting competition and lowering costs. The
President is committed to execute this three-part strategy in a manner
that is fiscally sustainable, by ensuring that our long-term investments
are responsibly financed by a tax system that is fair. I’ll discuss each
in turn.

**Smart Public Investment**  
  
After years of declining public investment, the President has secured
historic legislation that enables smart public investment in
infrastructure, semiconductors, and clean energy in order to catalyze
private investment, boost our economic potential, and make our economy
more resilient to shocks. Already, we’ve seen [over $500
billion](https://www.whitehouse.gov/invest/?utm_source=invest.gov) in
private investment in these key industries, and real [manufacturing
construction spending](https://fred.stlouisfed.org/series/TLMFGCONS) has
increased by nearly 100 percent since the end of 2021.

Mainstream economics has long recognized there is a role for public
investment to catalyze private investment in targeted areas where
private returns may not reflect the overall public benefit, such as
where high fixed investment is needed, where there are foundational
inputs that have few substitutes, in public goods where there are large
externalities, and in national security. In these targeted areas,
private action needs to
be [supported](https://www.nytimes.com/2023/05/09/opinion/climate-inflation-reduction-act-biden.html) and [encouraged](https://12ft.io/proxy?q=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.project-syndicate.org%2Fcommentary%2Findustrial-policy-us-chips-and-science-act-debate-by-michael-spence-2023-05%3Fbarrier%3Daccesspaylog) in
cases where markets on their own [are unlikely to
deliver](https://drodrik.scholar.harvard.edu/files/dani-rodrik/files/industrial-policy-twenty-first-century.pdf),
particularly given extensive state intervention by some other countries.
Where [frictions in
financing](https://economics.yale.edu/sites/default/files/howell_innovation_finance_jmp_jan7.pdf) and [demand](https://scholar.harvard.edu/files/kremer/files/incentivizing_innovation_ipe_pub_2010.pdf)
[](https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=3743901)
[uncertainty](https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=3743901) around
nascent technologies make it more difficult to commercialize promising
early innovation, public investments [can
help](https://pubs.aeaweb.org/doi/pdfplus/10.1257/aer.20150808).

When the President entered office, U.S. infrastructure
was [lagging](https://infrastructurereportcard.org/)
[](https://www3.weforum.org/docs/WEF_TheGlobalCompetitivenessReport2019.pdf)
[behind](https://www3.weforum.org/docs/WEF_TheGlobalCompetitivenessReport2019.pdf) foreign
peers. Public investment in infrastructure as a share of the economy had
fallen by more than [40
percent](https://fredblog.stlouisfed.org/2021/10/government-investment-on-the-decline/) since
the 1960s. President Bident secured the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law,
and the Biden administration
is [investing](https://www.whitehouse.gov/build/guidebook/) in tens of
thousands of projects around the country to repair and rebuild the
nation’s roads and bridges, airports, rails, and ports. In the same
spirit as FDR’s rural electrification plan, President
Biden’s [broadband](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/03/15/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-new-actions-to-lower-high-speed-internet-costs/) initiative
is a generational investment to connect every household and small
business in America to high-speed internet.

Semiconductors are [essential
components](https://www.cnbc.com/2022/08/02/biden-signs-china-competition-bill-to-boost-us-chip-production.html) in
a vast number of consumer, industrial,
and [defense](https://www.csis.org/analysis/semiconductors-and-national-defense-what-are-stakes) products.
But, the share of global semiconductors produced by the United States
has fallen by [two
thirds](https://www.mckinsey.com/industries/public-and-social-sector/our-insights/the-chips-and-science-act-heres-whats-in-it) since
the 1990s – in part due to large-scale public investments by foreign
governments. We saw
the [far-reaching](https://finance.yahoo.com/news/these-industries-are-hit-hardest-by-the-global-chip-shortage-122854251.html) and [costly
effects](https://www.stlouisfed.org/en/on-the-economy/2022/may/did-computer-chip-shortage-affect-inflation) when
increased demand paired with shutdowns of foreign semiconductor fabs
disrupted U.S. supply chains, leading to persistent shortages of goods
from cars to washing machines. In response, with the help of the CHIPS
and Science Act, we’re seeing private investment in semiconductor
manufacturing and R&D in the United States, with the potential to
achieve important synergies with America’s robust semiconductor-user
base and design ecosystem.

Smart public incentives are also critical to encourage the private
sector to invest in technologies that are vital for the clean energy
transition—including batteries and storage, solar panels, and electric
vehicles. In part due to intervention by some foreign
governments, [production](https://www.iea.org/reports/solar-pv-global-supply-chains/executive-summary) of
key parts in the battery and solar supply chain
is [highly](https://media.defense.gov/2022/Feb/24/2002944158/-1/-1/1/DOD-EO-14017-REPORT-SECURING-DEFENSE-CRITICAL-SUPPLY-CHAINS.PDF)
[](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/04/27/remarks-by-national-security-advisor-jake-sullivan-on-renewing-american-economic-leadership-at-the-brookings-institution/)
[concentrated](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/04/27/remarks-by-national-security-advisor-jake-sullivan-on-renewing-american-economic-leadership-at-the-brookings-institution/) in
a few countries and, in the case of solar, actually declined in the U.S.
despite growing demand. That is now changing, with the Inflation
Reduction Act tax incentives for the private sector to innovate and
manufacture in the United States. We are doing this in partnership with
our friends and allies around the world, working together to drive down
costs and advance the frontier for technologies that are likely to be
deployed everywhere. The administration has already forged agreements to
harmonize these clean energy incentives with foreign partners, and we
will continue to look for opportunities to cooperate.

**Investing in Workers and Communities**  
  
Second, President Biden’s economic strategy is centered around
empowering and educating workers and ensuring a brighter future for
communities that have been left behind.

Over the last 30 years, there has been
a [decline](https://www.brookings.edu/wp-content/uploads/2018/03/AustinEtAl_Text.pdf) in
the convergence of incomes across states and metropolitan areas. And
since 2000, states in the “heartland” of the country have seen
persistently [lower labor force
participation](https://www.brookings.edu/wp-content/uploads/2018/03/AustinEtAl_Text.pdf) than
the coasts. Place-based policies that provide incentives for private
investments can create good-quality jobs where they’re most
needed *and* pay off with outsized
economic [benefits](https://www.brookings.edu/wp-content/uploads/2018/03/AustinEtAl_Text.pdf).
A
recent [study](https://www.aeaweb.org/articles?id=10.1257/jep.34.3.99) assesses
that the economic benefits of policies that add jobs in communities
classified as “distressed” are at least 60 percent greater than in
places that are already “booming.” That’s partly because underserved
areas are more likely to have existing but underused infrastructure and
a skilled workforce.

We are implementing a series of innovative programs that provide
positive incentives for the private sector to invest in communities that
have faced challenges. The Inflation Reduction
Act [creates](https://energycommunities.gov/energy-community-tax-credit-bonus/) and [funds](https://www.energy.gov/mesc/domestic-manufacturing-conversion-grants) provisions
to provide incentives for private clean energy investment in areas with
existing workforces and infrastructure that are well-suited to
transition to future-oriented industries. Programs to provide public
seed funding in areas including
clean [hydrogen](https://www.energy.gov/oced/regional-clean-hydrogen-hubs) and
other
cutting-edge [technologies ](https://www.eda.gov/funding/programs/regional-technology-and-innovation-hubs)will
help catalyze sustainable private sector ecosystems in future-oriented
sectors. And, [underserved
communities](https://home.treasury.gov/news/press-releases/jy1269) stand
to benefit from significant tax benefits in the IRA for solar and wind
energy projects located in low-income communities,
while [programs](https://www.eda.gov/funding/programs/recompete-pilot-program) in
the CHIPS and Science Act will help strengthen the capacity of
communities with high unemployment to compete for public and private
investment.

As part of his strategy to empower workers, the President believes that
unions are vital not only in promoting jobs with dignity, but also in
training American workers and helping to make these investments in
America’s future productive and successful. The Administration’s
policies are designed to encourage
job [quality](https://www.eda.gov/arpa/good-job-challenge),
worker [empowerment](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/02/04/executive-order-on-use-of-project-labor-agreements-for-federal-construction-projects/), [fair](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/04/27/executive-order-on-increasing-the-minimum-wage-for-federal-contractors/)[pay](https://www.dol.gov/agencies/whd/IRA),
and training and [career
pathways](https://www.apprenticeship.gov/inflation-reduction-act-apprenticeship-resources),
as well
as [enabling](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/11/Advancing-Equitable-Workforce-Development-for-Infrastructure-Jobs_110122.pdf) historically [underrepresented](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/11/02/fact-sheet-president-biden-celebrates-new-commitments-toward-equitable-workforce-development-for-infrastructure-jobs/) workers
to take on good jobs in sectors of the future.

American workers must have access to training and education to secure
high-quality jobs. A variety of policies invest in education and
training–ranging from the President’s commitment to free and universal
preschool and free community college to increases in Pell Grants,
Registered
Apprenticeships, [HBCUs](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/12/17/fact-sheet-the-biden-%E2%81%A0harris-administrations-historic-investments-and-support-for-historically-black-colleges-and-universities/#:~:text=Since%20January%2C%20the%20Biden%2DHarris,to%20HBCUs%20this%20year%20alone.),
Tribal Colleges, and Minority-Serving Institutions such as Hispanic
Serving-Institutions, and career and technical education. Those options
include important pathways to family sustaining jobs and good careers
without having to pursue a four-year degree.

In addition to increasing economic opportunity throughout the economic
cycle, a rapid return to full employment is important
to [mitigate](https://www.ucpress.edu/book/9780520379107/moving-the-needle) the
lingering effects of shocks and downturns. We have seen a far more rapid
labor market recovery than was predicted. Although the [Congressional
Budget
Office](https://view.officeapps.live.com/op/view.aspx?src=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.cbo.gov%2Fsystem%2Ffiles%2F2021-02%2F51135-2021-02-economicprojections.xlsx&wdOrigin=BROWSELINK) estimated
that it would take until 2026 for unemployment to reach 4 percent, the
unemployment rate has been consistently [below 4
percent](https://beta.bls.gov/dataViewer/view/timeseries/LNS14000000) since
the beginning of 2022. The strong labor market recovery has led to
better pay and job quality. Household net worth and real wages are up
compared to pre-pandemic levels – and
job [satisfaction](https://www.conference-board.org/press/job-satisfaction-hits-all-time-high) reached
the highest level on record last year. The promise of good-quality jobs
and higher wages is also drawing people into the labor force, taking
the [prime-age labor force participation
rate](https://beta.bls.gov/dataViewer/view/timeseries/LNS11300060) to a
20-year high.

**Promoting Competition and Lowering Costs**  
  
Promoting fair competition and lowering costs is the third vital pillar
of the President’s agenda. When the President took office, concentration
had increased in more
than [three-quarters](https://academic.oup.com/rof/article/23/4/697/5477414.) of
U.S. industries. A
seminal [study](https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=1954849) on
the impact of nearly four dozen major mergers found that over 80 percent
resulted in price increases, which were particularly large in
the [hospital
care](https://www.rwjf.org/en/library/research/2012/06/the-impact-of-hospital-consolidation.html) and [airline](https://www.journals.uchicago.edu/doi/abs/10.1086/505369.) industries.
A
recent [report](https://home.treasury.gov/system/files/136/State-of-Labor-Market-Competition-2022.pdf) by
the Treasury Department found that a lack of competition can reduce
wages by about 20 percent when compared to a fully competitive market.

Competition is central to capitalism. It can mean [lower
costs](https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=1954849) for
consumers, [higher
wages](https://home.treasury.gov/system/files/136/State-of-Labor-Market-Competition-2022.pdf) for
workers, and [greater
dynamism](https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=962261) driven
by small businesses and new entrants. This is why the President issued
a [Competition Executive
Order](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/07/09/executive-order-on-promoting-competition-in-the-american-economy/) in
2021, which made promoting competition a whole of government mission. We
have also secured significantly increased funding for our antitrust
enforcement agencies –after remaining flat for years.

We are working to lower the cost of living for middle-class Americans.
It is important to continue making progress in reducing health care
costs, which present difficult tradeoffs for many American families. For
example, the FDA regulatory change enabling [hearing
aids](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/10/17/fact-sheet-cheaper-hearing-aids-now-in-stores-thanks-to-biden-harris-administration-competition-agenda/) to
be sold over-the-counter is lowering hearing aid costs by as much as
$3,000 per pair—a significant savings for the nearly 30 million
Americans with hearing loss. According to new data, President Biden’s
$2,000 per year out-of-pocket spending cap will save almost 18.9 million
seniors and other Medicare beneficiaries an estimated $400 per year on
average in out-of-pocket prescription drug costs starting in 2025. The
savings will be $2,500 per year for the nearly 2 million enrollees with
the highest drug costs. This includes savings averaging more than $100
per month for seniors due to the $35 per month cap on insulin.

We are also addressing [junk
fees](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/blog/2022/10/26/the-presidents-initiative-on-junk-fees-and-related-pricing-practices/)—hidden
fees that are added to the final price often without the consumer
realizing it or a clear rationale. Already, the Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau’s actions on [overdraft and bounced check
fees](https://www.consumerfinance.gov/about-us/blog/hidden-cost-junk-fees/) are
saving 33 million households an average of $150 a year. We are making
progress in addressing family seating fees at airlines, which can cost
as much as $50 per ticket per flight, with a number of major airlines
answering the President’s call to action by ending the use of these
fees. Similarly, we are working to address early termination fees for
TV, phone, and internet service, which can exceed $200. We are also
calling for all-in up-front pricing at hotels to address surprise resort
and destination fees that can be $50 per night.

And every worker should have the freedom to switch to a better job. The
Federal Trade Commission
has [launched](https://www.ftc.gov/news-events/news/press-releases/2023/01/ftc-proposes-rule-ban-noncompete-clauses-which-hurt-workers-harm-competition) a
rulemaking to ban non-compete agreements, which could increase wages by
nearly $300 billion per year and expand opportunities for about 30
million Americans, if finalized as proposed. According to [one
survey](https://smallbusinessmajority.org/our-research/fair-competition/opinion-poll-small-business-owners-support-banning-non-compete-agreements),
nearly two thirds of small businesses favor a ban on non-competes
because they create barriers in hiring employees or even launching new
businesses.

More broadly, our pro-competition agenda is important to the vitality of
the small businesses that create jobs, drive innovation, and provide
vital goods and services. Americans filed nearly 10.5 million
applications to start new businesses in 2021 and 2022–the two highest
years on record for new business formation.

**Conclusion**  
  
In the weeks and months ahead, we will continue working diligently to
support growth that benefits the middle class through smart public
investments, educating and empowering workers, and lowering the cost of
living. This approach will allow us to achieve growth that is more
resilient and broadly shared, where economic gains flow to hard working
Americans. Thank you.

\###
