---
date: '2023-07-27'
published_time: 2023-07-27 18:25:08-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/07/27/remarks-by-president-biden-and-prime-minister-meloni-of-the-italian-republic-before-bilateral-meeting/
tags: speeches-remarks
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden and Prime Minister Meloni of the Italian Republic\
  \ Before Bilateral\_Meeting"
---
 
Oval Office

3:16 P.M. EDT

PRESIDENT BIDEN: Well, it’s a delight to welcome the Prime Minister. We
have become friends. And it’s good to have you back at the White House.
Thank you for coming.

PRIME MINISTER MELONI: Thank you.

PRESIDENT BIDEN: And let me offer my condolences over the — in Italy and
throughout the Mediterranean, to those suffering from extreme, extreme
weather and wildfires. Italy and the region are grappling with this,
just as we are here in the United States.

I just did a major initiative on dangers of this excessive heat here in
the United States. And we’re grappling with it as well.

And as NATO Allies, the transatlantic partnership is the cornerstone of
our shared security. And the Italian troops are playing a critical role
in Europe, in the Mediterranean, and beyond.

Italy and the United States are also standing strong with Ukraine. And I
compliment you on your very strong support in defending against Russian
atrocities. And that’s what they are. It’s not just a war, but they’re —
Russia is committing atrocities that they’re focusing on. Well, I don’t
want to get into it.

But, you know — and I thank the Italian people. I want to thank them for
supporting you in supporting Ukraine. It makes a big difference.

Today, we’re going to talk about our deepening economic connections,
which fueled more than $100 billion in trade last year. In my view,
there’s no reason why that can’t increase.

And we’re also expanding the partnership in new areas, including space
cooperation and strengthening our support for developing countries.

And I look forward to our discussion today on Mediterranean — the work
with Mediterranean nations to address the legitimate migration
challenges you have coming from Africa.

And — and Italy is going to be leading the G7 this next time around and
— next year. And I also look forward to pursuing an ambitious agenda for
progress.

And — and I hope you’ll be nice to me as the chairman.

PRIME MINISTER MELONI: (Laughs.)

PRESIDENT BIDEN: Thank you.

PRIME MINISTER MELONI: Thank you.

PRESIDENT BIDEN: Please.

PRIME MINISTER MELONI: Thank you. I am very pleased to be here today to
testify the deep friendship that bonds the United States and Italy.

I want to thank President Biden for his hospitality. And this closeness
is based on common values and cultural roots.

And our bond was made strong by the contribution of millions of
Americans of Italian origin. And that — that means Italy is an integral
part of the great American nation and contributed in shaping its culture
and identity.

And also for that, our relations are historically strong. They cross
governments and remain solid regard- — regardless of their political
colors.

We know who our friends are in times that are tough. And I think that
Western nations have shown that they can — they can rely on each other
much than some have believed.

Moreover, after the Russian aggression against Ukraine, for all together
we decided to defend the international law. And I’m proud that Italy,
from the beginning, played its part in it. We did it simply because
supporting Ukraine means defending the peaceful coexistence of people
and states everywhere in the world.

Contrary to what some claim, Ukrainian resistance distances a world war.
It does not bring it closer, as some say.

Those who believe in peace should be the first supporters of the
Ukrainian cause.

And then, Italy and the United States have important common interests in
enhancing, as well, a global trade that is not only free but also fair.
Competition from other nations that do not meet our standards in terms
of worker protection, safety, environmental protection undermine our
companies and workers.

So, free trade without — without rules has shown its limits. We must
find the right balance between openness and the protection of our
economy — economies — and strategic interests.

And similarly, we will discuss also these within the West. We must work
together to support our injus- — industrial system by fostering
convergence on our national interests. In this respect, dialogue between
us — between Italy, Europe, United States — can avoid counterproductive
tension to the benefit of everyone.

And on the other hand, we also need to be fair with nations that feel
they have been exploited of their resources and that they show distrust
towards the West. President Biden knows I take care a lot about Africa,
about the role that we can play in these countries that can help us,
building with them a new relation based on a new approach, which is a
peer-to-peer approach. Also to fight illegal migration and all the
problems that we face.

It’s all things that we will discuss in the G7 presidency of Italy next
year.

And then, United States is our most important trade partner outside the
European Union. And I think — I do agree with you, Joe, that our trade
partnership is very high, but no reason why we could not improve it.

So, thank you very much for hosting us, and thank you for your time.

PRESIDENT BIDEN: Well, I think you made an interesting point about the
closeness and how many Italian Americans there are here.

And I just want you to know I was raised in a neighborhood where I felt
self-conscious my name didn’t end in “O.” And I want you to know I’m the
only non-Italian named Man of the Year by the Italian Society.

And I — when I got the award, I said to everybody what — (inaudible)
what I was going to say. I said, “You know, I was thinking about this.”
I named all the guys and families I grew up with, (inaudible). Anyway, I
went through the list. And I said, “I was thinking about it. I deserve
this award.” (Laughter.)

And — but I may be Irish, but I’m not stupid. I married Dominic
Giacoppo’s granddaughter. Just want you to know that. Okay? So be nice
to me. All right?

PRIME MINISTER MELONI: (Laughs.) Now I know it.

PRESIDENT BIDEN: Any rate, thank you all very much.

PRIME MINISTER MELONI: Thank you very much.

3:23 P.M.
