---
date: '2024-04-15'
modified_time: 2024-04-16 11:12:17-04:00
published_time: 2024-04-15 15:11:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/04/15/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-and-national-security-communications-advisor-john-kirby-2/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre and National Security\
  \ Communications Advisor John\_Kirby"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

1:39 P.M. EDT

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Good afternoon, everyone.

Q    Good afternoon.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I just have a — just something really quick at the
top. 

Is the — the mics are always funky.  Is it funky?

Q    It’s normal.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No?

Q    You sound good.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, okay.  (Laughter.)  Let’s get going.

With all seriousness, though, it was obviously a very busy weekend at
the White House.

The President spent hours in the Situation Room, closely monitoring the
latest developments in the Middle East with his national security team. 
He was engaged in extensive diplo- — diplomacy, speaking with the
Israeli Prime Minister on Saturday night and convening a call with G7
leaders on Sunday morning.

The President also organized a joint statement with the G7 that strongly
condemned Iran’s brazen and unprecedented attack.

Today, the President received an updated briefing from his national
security team and, as you all know, met with the leaders of Iraq and
will meet with the leaders of the Czech Republic later this afternoon.

With that, we have my NSC colleague, Admiral John Kirby, who’s here to
do a much deeper dive and also take your questions on the Middle East.

(A laptop computer chimes.)

MR. KIRBY:  Somebody is due soon.  (Laughter.)

Good afternoon.

Q    Good afternoon.

MR. KIRBY:  As you all know and certainly Karine restated it, Iran and
its proxies operating in Yemen, Syria, and Iraq also conducted an
unprecedented attack on the State of Israel with over 300 weapons,
including more than 100 ballistic missiles, as well as land-attack
cruise missiles and unmanned aerial vehicles or drones. 

President Biden instructed the United States to defend Israel to the
maximum extent possible and defeat that attack, and we did.

With the support of our partners, the United States enabled Israel to
spectacular- — spectacularly defeat it. 

Despite launching more than those 300 weapons from Iran and the region,
Israel and a coalition of partners were able to defeat 99 percent of the
attacks.  There is virtually no infrastructure damage to Israel. 

But their attack requires an unequivocal condemnation from the
international community.  And so, as Karine said, the President convened
the G7 yesterday, and they have forcefully condemned that attack and
urged for calm and de-escalation. 

And I’d like to take just a few minutes to correct the record on a few
points that have come out in the last several hours.

I’ve seen reporting that the Iranians meant to fail, that this
spectacular and embarrassing failure was all by design.  I’ve also seen
Iran say that they provided early warning to help Israel prepare its
defenses and limit any potential damage.

All of this is categorically false.  To coin the phrase from the
President — or steal a phrase from the President, it’s “malarkey.”

This attack failed because it was defeated by Israel, by the United
States, and by a coalition of other partners committed to Israel’s
defense.

So, let’s be straight.  Given the scale of this attack, Iran’s intent
was clearly to cause significant destruction and casualties.

Iranian leaders launched so many missiles and other munitions because
they knew that many were going to be defeated, but the aim was to get as
many as of them through Israeli — Israel’s defenses as possible.  

Now, I’ve also seen this speculation about messages passed forth and
warnings.  We did receive messages from Iran, and they received messages
from us too.  But there was never any message to us or to anyone else on
the timeframe, the targets, or the type of response. 

In fact, before yesterday, it was presumed that 100 ballistic missiles
might overwhelm even the best defensive systems.  That was Iran’s
intent.  And as you all saw for yourself, it didn’t work. 

This attack was defeated thanks to our preparations, to a coalition of
committed partners, and to Israel’s remarkable defensive systems.

And I want to focus on that last point for just a moment.  Israel today
is in a far stronger strategic position than it was only a few days
ago. 

Iran’s vaunted missile program –- something it has used to threaten
Israel and the region –- proved to be far less effective. 

Israel’s defenses, on the other hand, proved even better than many had
long assumed.  Israel’s defense was strengthened by a coalition of
countries led by the United States and working together. 

The United States has never before so extensively and so directly
defended Israel from attack.

To ensure that that continues to be the case, the House of
Representatives must urgently pass the national security supplemental,
which has already passed the Senate with overwhelming bipartisan
support.  That supplemental includes funding that the President
requested for the Iron Dome and David’s Sling system — systems that
saved countless lives this weekend and have saved many lives from Hamas
and from Hezbollah rockets over the past six months.

Passing that bill is the fastest and surest way to get Israel the aid it
needs.  And we must act urgently to replenish Israel’s air defenses,
just as Congress must act urgently to replenish — replenish Ukraine’s
air defenses, which also continue to be attacked every single day, with
the same Irania- — Iranian-made drones.

Now, finally, much of the world today is standing with Israel. 

When the President spoke to G7 leaders yesterday, they were unified in
their condemnation of Iran and their determination to hold Iran
accountable. 

At the President’s direction, our teams are now following up with G7
capitals on new multilateral sanctions to target Iran’s missile and
other nefarious programs.  G7 countries that had yet to designate the
IRGC a terrorist organization are now considering doing so.

And going forward, we will be working to further isolate Iran
internationally and increase economic and other forms of pressure.

So, that’s the upshot here: a stronger Israel, a weaker Iran, a more
unified alliance of partners.  That was not Iran’s intent when it
launched this attack on Saturday night — not even close.  And again,
they failed.  They failed utterly.

Now, as you also know, President Biden is welcoming both the Iraqi Prime
Minister and Prime Minister Petr Fiala of the Czech Republic to the
White House. 

The President and Prime Minister al-Sudani from Iraq will discuss the
U.S. and Iraq’s shared vision for our broad, multifaceted relationship. 
During the meeting, these leaders will reaffirm their commitment to
advancing regional stability, to expanding opportunities for Iraq’s
people, and reinforcing Iraq’s sovereignty, security, and stability. 

The Iraqi Prime Minister will be here for almost a week.  And in that
time, he will meet a range of administration officials, including both
Secretary Blinken at the State Department and Secretary Austin at the
Defense Department.  He will have opportunities to share his priorities
and vision for Iraq with a variety of audiences here in Washington and
in other parts of the United States.  

Now, of course, the President will be taking the opportunity to discuss
how we will continue to work with Prime Minister Sudani to defuse
regional tensions and to prevent Iraq from being drawn into conflict. 
Iraq, the President firmly believes, is central to the region’s
stability. 

And then, later, as Karine previewed, he’ll have a chance to meet with
President — I’m sorry — Prime Minister Fiala to celebrate the 25th
anniversary of the Czech Republic as a NATO Ally. 

Over the past 25 years, our alliance has grown stronger and the
relationship between our two countries have grown even closer as we’ve
deepened defense cooperation, including through the Czech Republic’s
purchase of 24 F-35 fighters earlier this year.

The President will congratulate the Prime Minister on legislation that
Czechia recently passed requiring it to spend at least 2 percent of its
GDP on defense, which, as you know, is the NATO goal.

Lead- — the leaders will also discuss their strong support for Ukraine,
and the President will thank the Prime Minister for leading an effort to
help secure nearly 1 million rounds of ammunition for Ukraine.

And one more thing, if you’ll just bear with me.  I’m almost done. 
Today marks the one-year conflict in Sudan.  Since fighting erupted a
year ago, civilians have been forced to bear the brunt of this senseless
conflict: thousands have been killed and wounded; women and girls have
been kidnapped and assaulted; hundreds of thousands of families have
been displaced; communities and livelihoods have been utterly destroyed;
and famine, now, is threatening to take hold.

That’s why the United States continues to commit resources to create
conditions for a potential peace process, to hold accountable actors who
are seeking to sow more violence, and to ensure that humanitarian
assistance reaches the civilians who urgently need it. 

We reiterate our calls for all parties in this conflict to lay down
their weapons and put an end to this intolerable violence for the future
of Sudan but, most of all, for the future of the Sudanese people.

Thank you.  Appreciate your patience.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Seung Min.

Q    Israel’s military chief just said, quote, “There will be a response
to the attack from Iran.”  So, does the U.S. have any indication of what
those next steps are from Israel?

MR. KIRBY:  We would let the Israelis speak to that.

Q    Does the U.S. expect to be consulted in advance of them taking any
next steps?

MR. KIRBY:  I — I won’t get into our diplomatic conversations or
expectations.  The Israeli government will determine for themselves if
there’s going to be a response and what that response is going to look
like. 

Q    And are you able to discuss the specific roles played by other
members of the regional coalition from over the weekend, specifically
Jordan and Saudi Arabia, whether they helped shoot down missiles or what
other actions they may have done over the weekend?

MR. KIRBY:  No, I think we’ll let other members of the coalition speak
for themselves.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.

Q    John, Israel is reportedly looking at options that would send a
message to Iran but not cause casualties.  Is the administration
presenting alternatives to Netanyahu?

MR. KIRBY:  This is a — these — this is an Israeli decision to make,
whether and how they’ll respond to what Iran did on Saturday.  And we’re
going to leave it squarely with them.

Q    Their decision to make, but are you making suggestions?

MR. KIRBY:  We are not involved in their decision-making process about a
potential response.

Q    And just — is the President — does he have any plans to speak to
Netanyahu again?

MR. KIRBY:  I don’t have anything on the calendar to speak to.  But,
look, I mean, they’ve — they’ve spoken frequently over the last six
months.  They’ll absolutely speak again at the appropriate time.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.

Q    Thank you, Karine.  John, just one day before the attack, President
Biden issued a warning to Iran: “Don’t.”  And now the U.S. is not taking
any part in an Israeli reprisal.  So, does that signal to Iran that it
can defy the U.S. without facing any consequences?

MR. KIRBY:  I don’t know, man.  If I’m sitting in Tehran and I’m taking
a look at what just happened on Saturday night, I don’t think I’d be
betting that the United States is not willing to get engaged here and
help defend Israel.  I mean, you had American fighter pilots in the air,
in combat operation, shooting down drones and missiles that were heading
towards — towards Israel, as well as U.S. Navy destroyers at sea,
knocking them down from there.

So, the message should be very clear to anybody: When the President says
we’re going to take our commitments to the region seriously, when we’re
going to help Israel defend itself.  We got skin in the game, and we
proved that.

Q    I understand what you’re saying about deterrence.  But what about
the consequences? 

MR. KIRBY:  As I just said and Karine also lead in, he had a
conversation with G7 leaders.  He’ll be engaging with other allies and
partners.  We have achiev- — we have seen swift condemnations about what
Iran did from the international community.  And we’re going to be
working with international partners to — to work up options to hold Iran
appropriately accountable.

Q    And then just on the logistics of this.  With roughly 300 drones
and missiles shot down, can you talk about how you will assess the
debris fields and the shrapnel and how much that impacted people on the
ground? 

MR. KIRBY:  Well, we’re not going to be doing any kind of an assessment
of the impact on the ground.  The Israeli Defense Forces and Israeli
officials have already been out and about looking at the impact on the
ground.  There were very few missiles that got through, and the only
damage that was done — it was very minor damage to one airbase in — in
Israel that did not even put that airbase out of commission.

The Israelis have already spoken to this.  I believe they’ve already
released imagery of some of the things they found on the ground. 

Sadly, a young girl — an innocent civilian, less than 10 years old — was
severely wounded.  That was the only casualty that we’re aware of.

Q    Thank you, John.

Q    Thank you.  John, a couple of questions on Iran and then on Iraq,
on the Prime Minister visit.  You just said that the White House were
not informed of the timing of the Iranian attack on Israel, but the
President told us that he — the attack is going to be sooner than later,
and almost a day after, the attack happened.  So, just can you explain
this one?

MR. KIRBY:  I never said we didn’t have an idea.  I never said we didn’t
have information that — that we could — that we could act on and speak
to our Israeli counterparts about. 

What I said was: Iran never delivered a message giving us the time and
the targets.

Q    The exact timing, you mean?

MR. KIRBY:  No, no.  No, no, no.  No timing.  I mean, I want to be
clear: This whole narrative out there that Iran passed us a message with
what they were going to do is ridiculous.

Q    Okay.  Do you believe that Iranian nuclear sites is a legitimate
target?

MR. KIRBY:  You’re — I’m not going to get into targeting discussions
here from the podium. 

Q    Okay.  Let me ask you about the Prime Minister.  Is the White House
satisfied with the way that the Iraqi government is reining in the
militias in Iraq, considering they are one of the proxies of the Iranian
regime?

MR. KIRBY:  We’re going to — we’re going to have an in-depth discussion
with the Prime Minister and his team about the continued activities of
militia groups in Iraq.  And — and we’ll reinforce our views about how
seriously we take the force protection of our — our troops and our
facilities there. 

And we’ll also expect — I fully expect that — that we’ll talk with the
Prime Minister about the counter-ISIS mission in Iraq and its — and its
potential future. 

Q    And finally, just when he said, “in the spirit of partnership, we
disagree with the United States,” and he mentioned something like “we
need a new system for international law — to respect international law,
international humanitarian law, protection of civilians, and diplomatic
missions.”

So, he’s hinting at the Israeli attack in Damascus.  He’s also hinting
about not doing enough to respect international law.  Is this a point of
disagreement between you and the Iraqi government? 

MR. KIRBY:  You’ll have to talk to the Prime Minister about what he
meant by those comments.  Iraq is a — a key partner, one we really
value.  We wouldn’t be having this meeting today, he wouldn’t be having
meetings this week if it wasn’t an important relationship.

As I said, the President believe — believes that Iraq is critical to
regional stability.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Danny.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  Thanks, Admiral.   You said just now that this —
that Iran’s attack was a spectacular and embarrassing failure.  Do you
and does the President believe that Israel should now take this as a win
and show restraint? 

MR. KIRBY:  I — I know where the context of the question is coming in. 
During his conversation with the Prime Minister on Saturday night, first
of all, he congratulated the Prime Minister for the exceptional effort
by the Israeli Defense Forces and, of course, commended, as you would
expect the Commander-In-Chief to do, the participation of U.S. forces in
this coalition and the great work that was done. 

I mean, it’s easy to — you know, I was looking some — looking at some of
the video before I came out here that’s running on some of your
networks, and, you know, it’s easy to look at that like it’s some kind
of a computer game, right?  It looks so simple — things getting knocked
out of sky.

Let me tell you something: It’s not simple.  It’s hard.  And a lot of
planning and preparation had to go into that and a lot of coordination. 
And the President talked to the Prime Minister about that. 

He also noted that this was an extraordinary success, a military
success.  And that that success alone, just for itself, speaks volumes
about Israel’s standing in the region — that they — they don’t stand
alone, that a coalition came to help them defend themselves.  It also
says a lot about Israel’s military superiority, and it says just as much
about Iran’s military inferiority when it came to this particular set of
attacks.

And the President urged the Prime Minister to think about what that
success says all by itself to the rest of the region.  He — he —

Q    You mean in terms of thinking about — I mean, but — think about the
restraint about, you know, the — maybe this should not go further than —
you know, further escalation?

MR. KIRBY:  All I’ll — all I’ll say is: The President, from the
beginning of this conflict on October 7th, has been steadfast and
consistent.  We don’t want to see a war with Iran.  We don’t want to see
a broader regional conflict.  We will do what we have to do to defend
Israel.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Asma.

Q    Yeah, does the — this administration believe Israel will indeed
strike Iran?  I mean, is it your assessment that that is inevitable at
this point? 

MR. KIRBY:  That’s going to be up to the Prime Minister and the War
Cabinet to speak to.

Q    But your assessment or the administration’s assessment?

MR. KIRBY:  I’m not going to provide intelligence assessments from
here.  As I — as far as I know, the War Cabinet is still debating and
talking about their next steps.  I think I’m going to let them speak to
whatever their next steps might be. 

Q    And if I may also ask one question on Gaza.  What is the
administration’s assessment of the timeline for a Rafah invasion, given
the conversations that you all have been having?

MR. KIRBY:  Again, you’re asking me a question that really should be
asked to the Israeli Defense Forces and the Prime Minister, not —

Q    No, but I know —

MR. KIRBY:  — not to the United States. 

Q    — you guys have been having conversations.  I just want to get a
sense of are these, like, ongoing conversations still?  Are you
(inaudible)?

MR. KIRBY:  (Laughs.)  I — I — yes, of course we’re talking to the
Israelis all the time.  Now, obviously, in the last 48 hours
particularly, the conversation has been about what Iran did.  But yes,
we have — continue to talk to them about what’s going on down in Rafah. 
And we expect — hope in coming days to be able to have yet another round
of discussions with them about what their intentions are with respect to
Rafah, but the focus, rightly, right now is on what Iran just did.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  J.J.

Q    On the U.S. military.  Given whatever the White House and President
Biden know about what’s going to happen next in the Middle East, are
there any fresh U.S. military preparations?

MR. KIRBY:  Fresh — fresh military preparations for?

Q    Whatever.  (Laughter.)

Q    Wide open. 

MR. KIRBY:  Yes.  I mean — (laughter) — we — we’re always looking at
force protection in the region.  We’re always looking at our force
posture.  We’re always evaluating it based on the threats and the
challenges.  You can expect that Secretary Austin and the entire team
over there at the Department of Defense is going to stay vigilant to
whatever the threat might be.

Q    Thanks.  You said a moment ago that it’s ridiculous –this narrative
that Iran provide — provided some advanced notice about specifics here. 
But where we’re hearing that from, you know, specifically is U.S. Ally,
Turkey; U.S. partner, Iraq.  That’s where that information is coming
from.  So, what is the discrepancy exactly that’s happening there?

MR. KIRBY:  I can’t possibly answer that question, Trevor.  All I’m
telling you is it’s nonsense.  I — I mean, it — think about this for a
minute.  Can you imagine a world in which Iran would pick up the phone
and say, “Hey, we’re about to try to swack Israel with 300 cruise
missiles and drones.  We just wanted to let you know it’s coming.  And
oh, by the way, here’s what we’re going to hit.”  I’m sorry.  It just
didn’t happen. 

I can’t account for what sources might be telling you all about what
they heard.  I’m telling you what we heard. 

And while we did get a message from Iran and we passed messages to Iran
as well, which I won’t get into the details of, none of it was, “Here’s
the targets.  Here’s the timeframe.  Here’s the munitions we’re going to
put on target.” 

Q    And on that subject of communications with Iran generally, you’ve
said, without preconditions, you’re willing to sit down with North
Korea.  Does the same apply to Iran and to reopening some diplomatic
discussions —

MR. KIRBY:  No.

Q    — with them?

No.  And do you want to elaborate on —

MR. KIRBY:  No.

Q    — why that is?  (Laughter.)  Okay. 

As far as sanctions in response to Iran, Iranian oil production is now
higher than it was two years ago.  Is there a reason that you aren’t
taking more steps against Iranian oil exports?  And does it have to do
with domestic political pressures around gas prices?

MR. KIRBY:  I don’t have any — as you know, we don’t preview sanctions. 
And I’m not going to start doing that today, except to note what I said
in my opening statement, that part of the discussion with the G7 leaders
was the possibility of additional sanctions on Iran unilaterally and —
and hopefully multilaterally, but we’ll see where that goes. 

Q    And anything on — on where the oil prices or oil — oil experts are
coming from Iran and — and whether you want to stop that?

MR. KIRBY:  Again, I won’t get ahead of economic pressure tools that we
might be applying in the future.  We’re working our way through that.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.

Q    A U.S. official told CNN over the weekend that the Defense
Secretary, Lloyd Austin, asked his Israeli counterpart to notify the
U.S. ahead of any potential response to the Iran attack.  Is there a
confidence that Israel will provide that advanced certification to the
U.S.?

MR. KIRBY:  I’ll just tell you that we are and will remain in very close
contact with our Israeli counterparts. 

Q    So, do you expect to get an advance notification?

MR. KIRBY:  We will stay in close contact with our Israeli counterparts.

Q    On the hostage talks.  Hamas rejected the latest proposal.  The
U.S. has said that Hamas rejecting it — has rejected the deal.  But do
you think Israel needs to allow Gazans to return home unrestricted, and
should the IDF pull back so they can do that, that being a sticking
point?  

MR. KIRBY:  First of all, we don’t consider it a dead letter.  As far as
we’re concerned, there’s a viable proposal on the table and Hamas ought
to take it.  And we’re not letting up on the idea of negotiating for a
hostage deal so we can get a ceasefire, so we can get more aid in, but
that’s still very much an active football in our — in our heads.

And as for movement north, we — what we’ve talked to the Israelis about
is you got a million and a half people that are seeking refuge down in
Rafah.  It’s by far the largest concentration of Palestinians in Gaza. 
They need to be accounted for.  Whatever kind of military operation
they’re thinking about doing in Rafah or anywhere else, to your point
about moving north, they have to provide safe venues for them to do
that.  They have to provide food, water, medicine, shelter.  All that
has to be baked in to whatever future military operations happen on the
ground in Gaza.

Q    That does sound, though, like you’re saying that Israel should
consider allowing Gazans to move up north, which has been a sticking
point in those hostage talks.

MR. KIRBY:  We want to see them — we want to see them account for the
future safety and security of the more than a million refugees that are
now taking refuge down near Rafah with whatever — baked in to whatever
military plans they might have for operations on the ground.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Francesca.

Q    On the ceasefire negotiations.  A U.S. official said yesterday that
the latest proposal included almost everything that Hamas had asked
for.  And so, how is it that the negotiations are at a standstill at
this point?  Is the U.S. planning another counterproposal?

MR. KIRBY:  I don’t know of a new proposal.  There is a very good
proposal on the table that CIA Director Bill Burns helped negotiate in
Cairo a week or so ago that the Israelis were able to get behind.  And
now it’s time for Hamas to step up and take that deal.  It will allow
for dozens of the hostages — the most at-risk pool of them — to get out,
and it’ll allow for about six weeks of a ceasefire so we can get some
calm and we can increase humanitarian assistance.

There’s a deal on the table.  That’s what Hamas needs to take.

Q    And when the President spoke yesterday to congressional leaders,
did he receive any sort of a commitment from House Speaker Mike Johnson
to bring the bipartisan national security supplemental bill to the House
floor this week?

MR. KIRBY:  I’ll let the Speaker speak to whatever his plans might be. 
Certainly, we heard from Leader McConnell and from — and from Leader
Jeffries about the importance of — of mak- — of passing this
supplemental and getting it — and getting it on — on its way.

And as I said in my opening statement, the fastest way — I mean, you’ve
got — you got two good friends here — Israel and Ukraine — that — very
different fights, to be sure, but active fights for their sovereignty
and for their safety and security.  And time is not on anyone’s side
here in either case.

So, they need to move quickly on this.  And the best way to get that aid
into the hands of the IDF and into the hands of the Ukrainian soldiers
is to pass that bipartisan bill that the Senate passed. 

Q    I understand that that’s the — your pref- –preference, the
bipartisan bill that the Senate passed.  But is the White House opposed
to an approach that takes the issues separately — Israel only or —

MR. KIRBY:  We are opposed to a standalone bill that would just work on
Israel.  As we’ve seen proposed, we would — we would oppose a standalone
bill, yes.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Gabe.

Q    Admiral, I know you said it was Israel’s decision.  But ask it
bluntly: If Israel retaliates against Iran, would the U.S. support that?

MR. KIRBY:  To answer bluntly: I’m not going to get into hypotheticals. 
We don’t want to see a war with <s>Ukraine</s> \[Iran\].  We don’t want
to see a wider conflict.  As the President said to the Prime Minister on
Saturday night, we will continue to do what we have to do to help Israel
defend itself.

But you’re asking me to get ahead of, as far as I know, a decision that
the War Cabinet hasn’t even made.

Q    But if it were to happen, does —

MR. KIRBY:  Yeah, it’s a — it’s a terrific hypothetical, Gabe, that I’m
just not going to entertain.

Q    Thanks.  John, has President Biden considered maybe beefing up the
public Iran posture to be more than just one word?

MR. KIRBY:  You’re — you’re referring to “Don’t”?

Q    Yeah.  Because he said, “Don’t” —

MR. KIRBY:  And so, let’s talk about —

Q    — and they did it anyway.

MR. KIRBY:  And let’s talk about —

Q    So, now what?

MR. KIRBY:  — what we did, Peter.  Let’s talk about “don’t” and “did.” 
Let’s talk about Saturday night.  He made it clear that he didn’t want
to see escalation in the region.  And —

Q    And then there was —

MR. KIRBY:  Let me finish.  He added military resources to the region
right after October 7th.  And then, when we had an inkling that this
kind of thing was coming, he added even more military resources to the
region: more destroyers that were capable of shooting down ballistic
missiles, fighter s- — a fighter squadron that was able to shoot down
drones.  And that’s what we did.

So, you can talk about the “don’t” word all you want.  But let’s talk
about what did happen.  And what did happen was Iran utterly failed. 
And if I’m sitting in Tehran right now, I’m betting that President Biden
takes it pretty seriously.  When he says “don’t escalate,” he’s going to
act to make sure that you can’t.  And they didn’t.

Yes, they fired an unprecedented amount of munitions.  But how much of a
success did they have, Peter?  None, zero, very little infrastructure. 
It was an embarrassing failure for the Supreme Leader, for the IRGC.

Q    Now that we know that the Iranians do not listen to President
Biden’s public warnings, is there any regret here about unfreezing
billions of dollars for Iranian leaders during the President’s
administration?

MR. KIRBY:  What unfreezing are you talking about?

Q    He unfroze billions of dollars.  There was a —

MR. KIRBY:  For Iranian leaders?

Q    Yeah.

MR. KIRBY:  Really?  I don’t think so.

Q    Okay.  You guys say —

MR. KIRBY:   So, first of all —

Q    — it’s for humanitarian purposes.  But doesn’t that —

MR. KIRBY:  But you don’t believe me.

Q    On — well, doesn’t that free up money for them to spend on other
stuff?  Where do you get the money for an unprecedented number of
munitions to — to fire at Israel?

MR. KIRBY:  So, first of all, I’m betting if they’re sitting in Tehran,
they’re taking it seriously when President Biden says he’s going to
defend Israel.  We put skin in the game — a whole heck of a lot of it —
and knocked almost everything out of the sky.  So, I’m betting they’re
taking it pretty seriously.

And as for this — this unfreezing, that — none of that fund — none of
those funds — funds set up in an account, by the way, by the previous
administration — goes directly to the Supreme Leader of the IRGC.  It
can only be used for humanitarian purposes.  And we’re watching that
account very, very closely to make sure that that’s what happens.

Q    And you guys often defend all the trips to Delaware by saying, “The
President is not on vacation.  He’s working.  He can be the President
from anywhere.”  So, why did he have to come back on Saturday?

MR. KIRBY:  Well, we got indications — shortly after arriving, we got
better, firmer intelligence and information about the specific timing of
what we expected to be this Iranian attack, and the President didn’t bat
an eye before getting back on that helicopter and coming back.

And he was here all Saturday night in the Situation Room, from
mid-afternoon until late at night, getting real-time updates from
General Kurilla and from his defense team all throughout the night,
including calling Prime Minister Netanyahu right from the Situation
Room.

And as Karine mentioned, on Sunday, he was right back at it again,
working the G7, calling King Abdullah.  I don’t know what else to tell
you.  He had a very busy, full weekend.

Q    John, on Iran.  What is the current thinking on whether Iran’s
Revolutionary Guard should be designated as a terrorist organization?

MR. KIRBY:  We already have. 

Q    And then, just do you have any update on getting additional
humanitarian aid to the people of Gaza?  You had said —

MR. KIRBY:  Yeah.

Q    — last week that you added 300 trucks on Wednesday.  Within where —
where the weekend (inaudible)?

MR. KIRBY:  Yeah.  Forgive me. 

Q    (Inaudible.)

MR. KIRBY:  I don’t know if Karine might have already briefed this out
to you guys.  But, you know, over the last week or so, more than 2,000
trucks have gotten in.  And even throughout the course of the weekend,
as Israel was dealing with a quite daunting attack by Iran, they were
still able to get some trucks into Gaza.

So, in these early days, after the previous phone call with Prime
Minister Netanyahu where the President talked about the need to increase
humanitarian assistance, we have seen Israel take steps to in- — to — to
do exactly that. 

Now, as we’ve also said, it’s still not enough.  The — the need is
dire.  And what we’re going to be doing is watching for a sustained
commitment to doing that over time.  But — but thus far, there has been
an increase in humanitarian assistance.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  Just one on the timing of the wa- — of any type of
warning.  So, are you saying Iran never told a U.S. partner —
Switzerland, Oman, any of them — Turkey, Iraq — never gave them any
information about the attack they were preparing to launch and that that
information never reached the U.S.?

MR. KIRBY:  The United States had no messages from Iran or from anybody
else, as I said in my opening statement, that — that offered a specific
timeframe or a specific set of targets or the types of weapons that they
were going to fire.

Q    So, just concretely, why would U.S. partners in Turkey, Jordan,
Iraq lie about passing along Iranian messages about any forthcoming
attack to the U.S.?

MR. KIRBY:  Look, I’m not — I’m not calling anybody a liar here.  I’m
telling you, from our perspective, what we knew and what we didn’t
know.  And we were able to help with Israel’s defenses because we had
information that we had received and Israel had received through our own
— our own efforts, but it never came as some sort of message from Iran
with, I mean, the — the timing and the target.

I — it’s — it’s — it kind of boggles my mind that anybody would believe
that Iran would pick up the phone and tell the United States, who — who
they know —

Q    (Inaudible) the United States.

MR. KIRBY:  — who — who they know has been very, very directly involved
with helping Israel defend itself and very public about doing that, and
detail the times and the targets.

Look, this to me seems like a lot of, you know, Monday morning
quarterbacking kind of stuff — would have, could have, should have.  And
— and maybe they want to make it appear like, you know, this was some
sort of small pinprick of an attack that they never meant to succeed. 

You can’t throw that much metal in the air, which they did, in the
timeframe in which they did it and convince anybody, realistically, that
you weren’t trying to cause casualties and you weren’t calling — trying
to cause damage.  They absolutely were.

Q    And just one more.  Is the meeting with Israli — Israeli officials
on Rafah still — is that happening this week?

MR. KIRBY:  I don’t have a date for you.  We’re still trying to get that
nailed down.  As I said earlier, we’d like to continue those
conversations.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.

Q    Thank you, Karine.  Hi, Admiral.  House Majority Leader Scalise
said on Friday that Speaker Johnson was negotiating with the White House
modifications to the Ukraine aid package.  Are you — what is being
negotiated?  And you just categorically said that the White House
opposes a standalone Israel bill —

MR. KIRBY:  That’s right.

Q    — supplemental.  Are you also opposed to changes to the
supplemental?  For example, changing —

MR. KIRBY:  Yeah.  I —

Q    — aid to alone —

MR. KIRBY:  I know it would make your jobs a lot easier if I negotiated
this thing up here in public.

Q    (Laughs.)  No, I just —

MR. KIRBY:  But I’m not going to do that.  You’re right.  The President
did have an opportunity to speak with Speaker Johnson and other
congressional leaders, including — including McConnell and Jeffries. 
And he made it clear that the best and the fastest way to stand by our
allies and partners is for the House of Representatives to take up the
bipartisan bill that the Senate passed.

Q    But are you also opposed to the modifications and changes, as you
oppose the standalone?

MR. KIRBY:  I’ve answered the question.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.

Q    Thank you so much, John.  First of all, thank you for your
dedication this weekend in keeping us all informed.  I think we all saw
more of us than our own families, which was really cool.  I got —

MR. KIRBY:  You certainly saw more of me than my family did. 
(Laughter.)

Q    I got two questions.  First of all, administration officials told
us on Sunday that they had help from India, China, and Iraq.  Can you
just detail, you know, some — give us some of the details on that?  And
does that represent a move forward in U.S.-China relations, that you
were able to cooperate on (inaudible)?

MR. KIRBY:  Yeah, as I said earlier, I think I’ll let other countries
speak to their participation and cooperation and the degree that the —
that they’re comfortable doing that.  I can only speak for the United
States and what we did.

Q    Does this represent a step forward for the U.S.-China —

MR. KIRBY:  I think it — what it — I think what it says is — without
getting into the specific contributions of other countries, as I said in
my opening statement, it shows that Israel is not standing alone, that —
I mean, that, unlike Iran, which is increasingly isolated on the world
stage, Israel has friends.  Israel has great skill, great
professionalism, great military capability.  And that’s not by
accident.  All of that comes from the support that they get,
particularly from the United States, but other countries as well.

Q    And then, if the U.S. can — and allies can help shoot down Iranian
drones over Israel, why can’t they do the same over Ukraine?

MR. KIRBY:  Yeah, I knew this question was coming too.  Look, different
conflicts.  Different conflicts, different airspace, different threat
picture.  And the President has been clear since the beginning of the
conflict in Ukraine, the United States is not going to be involved in
that — that conflict in a combat role.  And we haven’t. 

We have been providing Ukraine the tools that they need to help defend
their airspace.  And, unfortunately, we can’t do that right now because
we don’t have that national security supplemental funding that — that
they so desperately need.

Q    The Assyrian Christians are the indigenous people of Iraq.  And
before liberation, they had about two and a half million, and they’re
down to nearly 200,000.  And just last month, the Iraqi Supreme Court
removed all of their — had five seats in the Kurdish parliament for many
decades, and those were renewed — were removed.  Have you — has that
come up in any of the discussions?

MR. KIRBY:  I’ll take the question.

Q    Thank you.

Q    Thank you, Karine.  And thank you, John, for all you did over the
weekend.  I have two questions.  First, you mentioned the shipping of
aid to Gaza from Israel.  Do we have a U.S. consular official at the
border who is confirming that the aid actually gets there?

MR. KIRBY:  I’m not aware of a consular presence at the border.  But
we’re in, as I said, constant touch with our Israeli counterparts.  We —
you know, we also have David Satterfield, who is the President’s Special
Envoy, for that exact purpose.  And, I mean, he’s — he’s like Waldo.  I
mean, he’s all over the place — (laughter) — constantly up and down, I
mean, making sure that that stuff is getting in and keeping the
President and the whole team fully informed.

Q    My other question is that: Given the recent developments with Iran,
is the U.S. going to step up its contacts with the opposition to the
current regime in Tehran?  And I mean, specifically, exile groups in the
United States, plus, on the ground, the Baluchi, Azeri, the Kurds, and
the Sunni, who are in opposition to the regime.

MR. KIRBY:  I don’t know of any such efforts in the wake of the — the
attacks. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  A couple more.  Way in the back, go ahead.

Q    Thank you, John.  Why is the U.S. not going to participate in a
counteroffensive?

MR. KIRBY:  Again, I think I’ve answered this question.  The President
had a good chat with the Prime Minister.  We talked about the incredible
success that the — that we and they achieved on Saturday night and the
message that success sends not only to the region but also to Iran as
well. 

And as I’ve also said and as the President has certainly said, we’re not
looking for a war with Iran.  We’re not looking to broaden and deepen
this conflict in the region.

Q    How exactly is he trying to de-escalate this situation?

MR. KIRBY:  Everything the President has been doing since the 7th of
October has been designed to try to de-escalate and to try to keep the
conflict from widening and deepening.  And that includes the moves that
he made in the last 10, 12 days to add resources to the region so that
we could help Israel better defend itself. 

And, my goodness, it all paid off.  I mean, instead of having a hundred
ballistic missiles land inside of Israel and cause untold damage to
infrastructure and to human lives, none of that occurred.  And the
reason none of it occurred was because the President was ahead of the
problem set.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Brian.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  John, just a couple of follow-ups.  The coalition
to put together limiting Iran’s development of nuclear weapons, is that
still solid in the face of what’s going on?

MR. KIRBY:  As the President has said, we’d love nothing better than to
be able to solve Iranian nuclear progress — nuclear weapons progress
through diplomacy.  Unfortunately, that’s not an option right now
because the — the Iranians, well before any of this, just weren’t
negotiating in good faith.  None of the diplomatic efforts were — were
paying off.

And so, that effort kind of fell moribund as we look for other ways to
increase pressure on Iran. 

The President has also said that while he would prefer to deal with this
threat diplomatically, he also will make sure that he’s got options and
choices available to him —

Q    But —

MR. KIRBY:  — to ensure that Iran never achieves a nuclear weapons
capability.

Q    But the countries that were backing that coalition — still a
member?  They’re all — China, Russia —

MR. KIRBY:  I mean, you’re talking about a process that’s just moribund
right now, Brian. 

Q    Okay.  And —

MR. KIRBY:  I mean, it —

Q    And so, the other follow-up: the container ship.  Was there — there
have been rumors.  Is there any — the container ship that was seized by
Iran, was there anything of a sensitive nature on it?  Do we know what
was on it?

MR. KIRBY:  I think I’d refer you to the Pentagon on that.  I don’t have
an update on the cargo.

Q    I — finally, I — well, I want to thank you for using which “swack”
and — and, of course, “Where’s Waldo?” 

MR. KIRBY:  I’m going to hear about that one from my wife. 
(Inaudible.)  (Laughter.)

Q    But the — but at the end, you understand the reason why the
question about advanced knowledge, because the President did come back
early.  And I think you spoke to it —

MR. KIRBY:  I didn’t say — I never said we didn’t have an advanced sense
of what the — I —

What I said was: We didn’t get that sense from the Iranians sending us a
telegram.

Q    Right.  But — but, as Peter asked, I believe, there was — we were
told not specifics, but that something was going to occur.

MR. KIRBY:  No.  I don’t — 

Q    Clear that one up for me.

MR. KIRBY:  It’s not about being told.  I think you all understand: We
have lots of tools and vehicles, through intelligence and other
information methods, to glean in- — to glean a picture of what an
adversary may or may not do.  Now, sometimes it’s right.  Sometimes it’s
not 100 percent right.

We had a good sense of what Iran was planning to do, and we achieved
that level of situational awareness on our own and working with our
Israeli counterparts.  The notion — the idea that Iran sent us an email
or picked up the phone and told us what they were planning to do is just
ludicrous.  It didn’t happen.  I don’t know how else to be more clear
about it.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Andrew.   And then we’ll wrap it up.

Q    Thank you, John.  And Happy Tax Day.  (Inaudible) here. 
(Laughter.)

MR. KIRBY:  (Inaudible.) 

Q    There’s been reporting — there’s been reporting that — (laughter).

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  (Inaudible.)

MR. KIRBY:  She’s right.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Right?

MR. KIRBY:  You’re right.

Q    Okay.  So, there’s been reporting that the President suggested to
the Prime Minister that Israel take the win and not go further with an
offensive response. 

MR. KIRBY:  I’ve seen that report, yeah.

Q    I — I have colleagues who are reporting that Israel is very much in
the process of planning an offensive response to — to these — to this
weekend’s attacks.  Given the political situation in Israel — Prime
Minister Netanyahu’s coalition, some of which is a bit extreme, and his
own situation — does the President have faith that the Prime Minister
will not escalate the situation out of his own political interests, as
opposed to genuine Israeli security interests?  And then I have an
unrelated one for you.

MR. KIRBY:  I’m not going to be able to get into Prime Minister
Netanyahu’s psychology or his political calculations or what’s going
into his decision-making process.

Q    I’m asking if the President is concerned about this, though.

MR. KIRBY:  What I would tell you is that the President and the Prime
Minister speak frequently, certainly as appropriate.  And the President
has been consistent publicly and privately that he doesn’t want to see
the war between Israel and Hamas escalate any more than it — than it
already has and he doesn’t want to see a broader regional conflict.  And
he’s certainly not looking for a war with Iran.  And I am confident that
the Prime Minister is aware of the President’s concerns.

Q    Okay.  And on — on Gaza.  This morning, you said that Israel has
been doing things the President asked them to do, but we really need to
see it sustained over time.

MR. KIRBY:  And you want to know how long is that time.

Q    No, sir.

MR. KIRBY:  Okay.  (Laughter.)

Q    That would — that would imply that — you didn’t want to call it an
ultimatum, but the — the conditions that the President laid out in his
prior phone call with the Prime Minister, that — about the aid workers,
the conditions on the ground for humanitarian workers, and aid getting
into Gaza — that that needed to change or there could be changes in U.S.
policy towards Gaza. 

Can you just lay out here whether the President is considering that —
you know, that set of circumstances and Israel’s defense against future
attacks from nation-states such as Iran to be — to be separate things? 
That that — that when you say we need to see it sustained over time,
that that — the possibility of policy changes is still a reality
separate and apart from the President’s, as he calls it, “ironclad”
commitment to Israeli security?

MR. KIRBY:  I’ve said many times that both things are and can be true. 
You can be a staunch defender of Israel’s defense.  And we are — and I
think he proved that to a fare-thee-well Saturday night — and still be
able to have some tough, candid conversations with the way in which they
are fighting Hamas inside Gaza. 

And those conversations are continuing, and, as I said, hopefully, we’ll
get to be able to sit down again with our Israeli counterparts about the
— whatever their thinking are — whatever the thinking is about — about
Rafah.

So, both things are true; both things can be true.  And — and those are
the discussions that we’re having.  You can — you can be a good friend
of — of Israel.  In fact, I would argue that only a good friend can do
what we did Saturday night and yet still be willing to have tough
conversations with the Israeli government about the prosecution of the —
of the operations they’re conducting inside Gaza.

Q    So, they’re being considered separate matters?

MR. KIRBY:  I think I’ve answered the question. 

Q    Okay. 

MR. KIRBY:  Thank you for your patience.  Appreciate it.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No worries.

Q    Thanks, John. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Hi.  Oh, I don’t know.  Seung Min.  I feel like you
guys got all the news of the day.  (Laughs.)

Q    Yeah, well, Happy — Happy Tax Day to you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Happy Tax Day.  I did take care of my taxes. 
(Laughter.)  I don’t — I don’t have a wife to take care of my taxes. 
(Laughter.)

Q    Ouch.

Q    Can you — just on the other sort of big news of the day.  Is the —
is the President going to be paying any sort of attention or will be
briefed on — on the criminal proceedings of former President Trump in
New York?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, as you know, the President is pretty busy
today.  He has two bilats, as you know, with the — as you just saw, with
the Iraqi Prime Minister and one with the Czech Republic.  So, it’s a
busy day focusing on, obviously, our national security priorities and
continuing the strong alliances that we have with these two leaders —
obviously, two separate meetings — and continuing to — you know,
continue to deliver for the American people.

I — I’m sure he’ll — he’ll, you know, get an update at some point today,
but his focus right now are the meetings that he have — he has and what
he continues to do every day.

Q    Right.  And setting aside the fact that the former President is the
— is the current President’s general election candidate or challenger
for this year, what is the Pre- — what is President Biden, the White
House’s reaction to this moment in time? 

I mean, it is a historic occasion — “occasion” is an odd word to say —
but it — you have a former President going on criminal trial for the
first time in history.  So, what is the White House’s reaction to that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I do want to be super mindful, even me commenting on
that.  It is an ongoing case.  I just want to be super, super mindful
and not comment on an ongoing case, even if it’s asking an opinion about
the, you know — the historic nature of what’s happening and what’s going
to occur over the next couple of weeks.  So, do want to be mindful.  And
he happens to be, as you just said, a candidate — a presidential
candidate for 2024, so going to be mindful.

The President is going to continue to focus on — on the week ahead. 
He’s going to be traveling, as you all know, to Pennsylvania.  He has
two important bilats today.  And it’s always about the American people
for this President, and that’s going to be his focus.

Go ahead, Mary.

Q    As you just mentioned, the President is heading to Pennsylvania
again this week.  He’s making multiple visits to the state.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    Can you just give us a sense of what we can expect in the coming
days?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, it’s a three — coming day or coming —

Q    Days.  (Laughs.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay, days.  I didn’t know if you said “weeks.”  I’m
like, “Wow, weeks.” 

Coming days — it’s a three-day swing to Pennsylvania.  He starts it off
tomorrow.  He’s going to start his trip in his hometown of Scranton,
where he’ll deliver remarks at — at a campaign event.  So, that’s
obviously a campaign event, so they will provide more details.

On Wednesday, he’s going to travel to Pittsburgh, where he’ll deliver
remarks again on other pieces of the economic agenda.  So, you can foc-
— you can imagine a very strong focus on the economy this week.  And so,
we’ll have more on that from us tomorrow on what Wednesday is going to
look like. 

And then on Thursday, which is, he’ll — obviously, he’ll continue his
swing.  He’ll travel to Philadelphia for more campaign events, and
certainly the campaign will provide any details on that particular day.

So, it’s Tuesday and Thursday are the campaign priorities, obviously,
and they’ll speak to that.  And then there’s an economic focus on
Wednesday, and so we’ll have more to share tomorrow on that.

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  So, first of all, with the Iraqi leader here,
lawmakers in that country are set to vote on a bill that includes a
death penalty or life in prison for same-sex relations.  Would passing
such a bill harm U.S. ties?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, look, you saw the Iraqi Prime Minister and the
President have a bilat today, and I think it shows the importance of
that alliance and the continued diplomacy engagement that we’ve done —
the President continues to do just across the globe, obviously.

The President has been very, very — I think, very vocal about any type
of — well, supporting the LGBTQ+ community and has spoken out about any
type of humanitarian — or human rights, I should say — any — you know,
any human rights violations that we see from here.  And they — we always
have those honest conversations with — with leaders, and the President
always has, again, those honest conversations. 

I’m not going to get into — I’m not going to get ahead of what’s
happening currently in Iraq, but we’ve been pretty — we’ve been pretty
clear about making sure that human rights — human rights — any human
rights violations or if we see anything that is — you know, that — that
we think needs — we need to speak to, we do, but I’m just going to be —

Q    And the President will raise that issue today?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — look, the President always raises human rights
issues if it warrants with a — with a leader.  I’m going to be really
mindful.  We’ll have a readout, obviously, of these two bilats. 

I’m — I can’t say for sure that that’s going to come up, but the
President has never backed down from having these types of frank, honest
conversation and where he stands, and we know where he stands with that
community — with LGBTQ+ community.

Q    And then one other topic.  Tesla is laying off more than 10 percent
of its global workforce — falling sales and intensive price war for
EVs.  Does the ongoing turmoil in the EV market and the very slow
consumer transition away from internal combustion engine vehicles make
you doubt your full-throated commitment to this space?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look — and I think I’ve talked about this before. 
You — look, when it comes to EV, we’ve saw an E- — we’ve seen EV sales,
obviously, rise — a record high.  And EVs are more affordable than ever,
and I think that’s important. 

Last year, EV sales surpassed 1 million for the first time ever, a 50
percent increase.  And under this President, EV sales have more than
quadrupled.  Sales of hybrids and EVs are now record high of 18 percent
of all light-duty vehicle sales.  Average price of EV is down 20 percent
a year ago.

And so, look, the President has always talked about — one of his
priorities, as it relates to the economy, is lowering costs.  And we see
that with — with these EV sales, obviously, and also creating a —
manufacturing jobs in order — if you’re seeing the EV sales go up —
right? — you’re going to see a continuation of manufacturing jobs that
are needed.  And so, that is important.  We can — we believe it’s going
to create jobs. 

I can’t speak to Tesla’s decision.  They are a private — obviously, a
private company.  

But we believe what we’re trying to do and what we’ve been trying —
trying to do in last couple of years — whether it’s manufacturing,
whether it’s dealing with the climate crisis by making sure EVs are —
are available and creating EVs — more EVs and lowering those costs — is
working. 

And so, that’s what’s going to be the President’s priority.

Go ahead.

Q    House Speaker Mike Johnson has said that he’ll move forward with
the vote on additional Israel aid.  If Congress were to pass additional
aid for Israel and only that, will President Biden reject it?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, we’ve been very clear — my colleagues from here
just moments ago — that we will not accept a standalone.  A standalone
would — would actually not help Israel and Ukraine.  It would actually
delay the needs that they — the — the needs that — the needed aid that
they obviously need to fight. 

When you see what was happening in Ukraine — obviously, the brave people
of <s>Ukrainian</s> \[Ukraine\] are fighting against a tyrant.  We need
to make sure that they have the assistance that they need. 

We saw what happened in Israel just over — over the weekend and the
leadership that this President has shown.  It would — it would actually
— it would actually not help them if we do a standalone, and we do not
support a standalone. 

What we want to see is that bipartisan national security supplemental
that passed overwhelmingly, 70-29, in the Senate.  And we believe if the
— if the Speaker were to put that on the floor, it would pass
overwhelmingly. 

And so, that’s what we want to see.  The President made clear to the —
in that conversation that he had just yesterday with Leader — Leader
Schumer, Leader Jeffries, and the Speaker, he was very clear about
that.  We need — the Speaker needs to move forward on the bipartis- — on
the national security supplemental, which we believe would get a
bipartisan — overwhelming bipartisan support. 

That’s what we want.  That’s what we have to see.  A standalone, we do
not support.

Q    Did the President think that that conversation moved the needle at
all?  I mean, this supplemental has been at a standstill in Congress. 
So, in that conversation with House Speaker Mike Johnson, did he receive
any sort of commitment that these two would move together?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, look, you s- — you heard from Leader — Leader
Schumer.  You heard from Leader Jeffries.  They called on the Speaker to
move forward.  We saw what happened over the weekend.  We see what
happens every day in Ukraine — every day.  And if they want to move qui-
— quickly, if they want to do this in an easy way — if the Speaker wants
to do this the easiest way pas- — possible, the fastest way possible,
there is a — there is a national security supplemental that is waiting,
that is ready to be put on the floor. 

We know it would get bipartisan support.  We know this.  We’ve heard
from Republicans.  We know where Democrats stand. 

And so, they have to put this on the — put this on — you know, they’ve
got to put this on the floor.  The Speaker has to move quickly — has to
move quickly.

Q    On another topic.  The Baltimore bridge crash is now under federal
criminal investigation.  Has the President been briefed on that?  And
has he been in touch with anyone in the Maryland delegation?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, what I will say is the President is regularly
updated on what’s happening in Baltimore.  Obviously, the port, moving
forward with that is really important, getting the bridge back up.  As
you know, the Department of Transportation, in the early days, announced
$60 million to help in that effort.  We’re going to continue to talk
with the Maryland delegation of what they need and how much this is
going to cost to get that going. 

But the President does get regularly updated.  There’s investigation
happening, as you just stated.  I’m not going to get in — you know, I’m
not going to comment to that.  I’m going to let that independent
investigation move forward.

Go ahead. 

Q    Thank you, Karine.  Earlier this month, did President Biden tell Xi
Jinping to stop supporting Russia’s assault on Ukraine?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, I’m not going to get into diplomatic
conversations.  We had a readout of that call that he had about 10 days
ago with President Xi.  It was an important call.  It talked — it was a
continuation of their summit that they had in San Francisco a couple of
months ago.  And so, I’m just not going to get ahead of or go into
details about private conversation.  I think the President and we have
been very clear.

Q    Okay.  So, the U.S. has announced some sanctions and an executive
order to address the support that China has given Russia in those months
between the summit and now but also said we are prepared to take further
steps.  So, is the administration going to do more to deter Beijing?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, you know, the President certainly is — is —
he’s going to underscore — he’s going to continue to underscore the
concerns — right? — that he has to China, while also reiterating our
readiness to conduct diplo- — diplomacy with North Korea — right? 
That’s a part of this too — in our determination to take steps to deter
further provocations by the DPRK, obviously. 

And also, you know — so, we’re always going to be very clear about
that.  You spoke about the executive action.  I’m just going to be super
careful about what — what was said between the two leaders.  We did a
readout, and we’ve been always very clear — always very clear to speak —
to speak very directly about our concerns and underscore our concerns to
China. 

Q    But just to be clear —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — it came up?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, I’m just going to be really careful.  You have
the readout.  I’m going to leave the readout to speak for itself. 

Q    Thank you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Jared.

Q    Is the White House satisfied with the FISA renewal bill that passed
the House and is headed to the Senate?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, I think it’s important that it moved out of the
House, and now it’s going to go to the Senate.  And we’ve talked about
that.  There was a deadline, as you know, and it needs to — we’ve got to
get going with the FISA.  It’s really important to get that done.

Q    Some of the changes that the White House is okay with — the reforms
—

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, we’re — we’re — I think we’re — we’re satisfied
that it has gone — it is moving.  It’s going to go to the Senate.  We’ll
see what happens there.  But it is — we — you’ve heard from us.  You
heard from even National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan, who talked
about that the last time he was at the podium.  It’s — it’s important to
our national security that we move forward with FISA.  Now it’s in the
Senate.

Go ahead, Ed.

Q    Yeah, thanks, Karine.  I want to ask about gas prices.  They’ve
been going up: over the last month, 20 cents a gallon.  Is the President
considering any new actions, like releasing more oil from the Strategic
Petroleum Res- — Reserve?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, don’t have — I don’t have any new actions to read
out. 

I will say — I will note that gas prices remain well below their peak
back in 2022.  I think that’s important.  And the — the average gas
price right now is cheaper than this time last year.  And that’s because
of what this President has been doing over the last three years,
including the SPR. 

And, look, let’s not forget: Jobs are up, wages are up, clean energy
manufacturing is up — all of these things are incredibly important —
because of this President’s historic investment that he has made. 

And so — but I would — I think it’s important to note that it remains
well below the 2020 peak — 

Q    But —

MS.  JEAN-PIERRE:  — 2022 peak, pardon me. 

Q    But it’s only three cents lower than a year ago.  It’s up 52
percent from when President Biden came into office.  Any, then, talk
about changes in policies that — to encourage the future investment in
oil and gas (inaudible)?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, the President is committed to lowering
costs.  He is.  That is something that you see at the center of every
economic policy.  When he’s here giving remarks, he’s talking about
lowering costs.  He understands how the American people are still being
squeezed. 

And so, the reason that it remains below 2022 — the gas prices, as
you’re asking me — is because of the historic investment that this
President has made. 

So, of course, we’re going to continue to monitor and do everything that
we can to answer those questions by the American people: What else can
we do to lower costs?  But it is important that it is cheaper — it is
cheaper to get gas than it was a year ago.  And that’s because of the —
of what this President has been doing, because of historic investment
that he’s taken. 

Q    Thanks, Karine.  Is there — to follow up on that, is there any
indication that when the President asked for the richest Americans to
pay their fair share, that inflation and the rise in gas prices are
linked to that request?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Say that one more time.

Q    Do you think that it — the rise in prices of gas and inflation,
which is still rising, is linked to the President’s request that the
richest Americans pay their fair share?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, what I — here’s what I will say: The way we see
the economy is very different than the way Republicans see the economy
and how we make sure we have an economy that works for all.  Making sure
that the we- — the wealthiest among us — the billionaires and
corporations — pay their fair share we believe is the way to go here,
not putting that burden on everyday Americans. 

That’s an economic policy that we believe in and a policy that br- —
builds the economy from the bottom up, middle out, not trickle-down. 

And so, we’re going to continue to lower costs.  And we’re going to ask
those billionaires and corporations to actually pay their fair share. 
That’s something Americans want to see.  That’s something Americans want
to see. 

As — as it relates to inflation, we look at a trend here, and we have
seen inflation moderate over the past several months.  And that’s
important, as well, to note.  But, look, we see it very differently.  We
want to make sure we’re protecting Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid,
lowering costs.  Republicans don’t want to protect that, and they want
to give billionaires and corporations a tax break.  That’s not how we
see this. 

Q    And to fo- —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, sure.

Q    Quick follow-up.  Earlier, there was reports that the
administration released that the Department of Justice — and they
haven’t commented on it — may have reached — the courts are reaching out
to Julian Assange for a plea deal.  Any update from you guys here as to
whether or not there would be a pardon or you would support a plea deal?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  That’s a Department of Justice question. 

Q    But — but the President —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  That — that is a Department of Justice question.  I
ca- — I’m not going to get into it.

Q    And they’re not responding to it, so would you —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I would refer to Department of Justice. 

Go ahead. 

Q    Thank you.  So, this week, a ton of people will be here for the
National Cannabis Policy Summit, and there’s currently still a patchwork
of state marijuana laws to regulate the drug safety, including whether
there are traces of lead in products.  Since marijuana is still illegal
at the federal level but becoming more common at the state level, is the
administration doing anything to try to improve safety regulations of
products or any consideration of legalizing marijuana moving forward at
the federal level?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I will give you a little bit of an update.  So, as
you all know, the President asked — asked Secretary of HHS and the
Attorney General to initiate the administrative process to review how
marijuana is scheduled.  HHS has concluded their independent review,
guided by the evidence.  The scheduling review is now with DOJ.  And any
input should be certainly directed to them at a time and in a manner
they say is appropriate. 

So, this is a matter, at this point, once — now that HHS has do- — has
completed their review, it’s in Department of Justice, and they can
speak to where — where marijuana rescheduling is at this point. 

All right.  Oh, go ahead.  Go ahead, Jon.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  I’m just wondering, looking backwards, the 2020
election cycle — so, you’re not impacting the upcoming election cycle. 

Q    No, no, no.  (Laughter.)

Q    Looking backwards —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  Let’s see where this is going.

Q    No, you don’t — actually don’t know where it’s going.   (Laughter.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, I didn’t say that.  I said, “Let’s see where this
is going.”  I have no idea where this is going.  (Laughter.)  I have no
clue. 

Q    I’m going to help you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — yeah, I know you will. 

Q    Thank you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I know you will.

Q    In — in 2020, do you think that the American electorate was helped
by seeing Donald Trump and Joe Biden on the same stage —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh.

Q    — at the same time —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I knew this was — now I know where this is going. 
(Laughter.)

Q    — at a presidential debate?  Was that helpful, do you think, in
terms of people making that decision?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  You know, that — that’s a question for the American
people.  I can’t speak to that from here.  I can’t. 

Q    Yeah.  And the — now —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  And 2020 was a different time. 

Q    Yeah.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  It was a different time. 

Q    And looking ahead to this upcom- — upcoming election cycle.  Do you
think it would be helpful to see these two — (laughter) — candidates who
are in a rematch —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So slick.

Q    — on the same stage —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So slick. 

Q    — at the same time also competing against each other in a
presidential debate?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  As the President would say, you can’t kid a kidder. 
(Laughter.)

What I will say is that is a question for the campaign.  They will
gladly, I’m sure — gladly take — take that question. 

All right, everybody.  Thank you so much. 

Q    Thanks, Karine.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Thanks for your patience.  I know it was a long one.

 2:41 P.M. EDT
