---
date: '2024-04-01'
modified_time: 2024-04-01 15:34:19-04:00
published_time: 2024-04-01 15:34:18-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/04/01/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-54/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine\_Jean-Pierre"
---
 
12:38 P.M. EDT

(A costumed Easter Bunny approaches the podium.)  
  
Q    Awww!  
  
Q    Happy Easter!  
  
(The Easter Bunny gestures to take questions from the press.)  
  
Q    How has Easter been for you this year?  
  
Q    Are you the President of the United States?  
  
(The Easter Bunny shakes its head.)  
  
Q    Are you the Vice President of the United States?  
  
(The Easter Bunny shakes its head.)  
  
Q    Are you a senior White House official?  
  
(The Easter Bunny shrugs.)  
  
Q    Bring any chocolate for us?  
  
Q    Are you John Kirby?  (Laughter.)  
  
(Ms. Jean-Pierre enters the Briefing Room.)  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Hey.  Hi.  
  
Q    How was the Easter Egg Roll today?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  How was —  
  
Q    How was the Roll?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I think — thumbs up?  
  
(The Easter Bunny makes a thumbs up gesture.)  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Thumbs up.  Two thumbs up from the bunny.  
  
All right.  Thank you.  
  
(The Easter Bunny departs the Briefing Room.)  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Hi.  Happy Easter.  
  
Q    Are you someone who works here at the White House?  (Laughter.)  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, hello, everybody.  Happy Easter Monday.  
  
So, I have something at the top for all of you, and I think you’ll be
really interested in this.  So, President Biden is scheduled to announce
he is revoking the Hatch Act.  So, as a gift to all of you — so, now I
can actually take all your questions about 2024.  (Laughter.)  
  
Q    Good one.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No?  I thought you would love that.  
  
Q    No.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  Okay.  April Fools.  April Fools.  April
Fools.  It is April 1st.  
  
Q    That’s a pretty good one.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — thank you.  I thought was pretty —  
  
(Cross-talk.)  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I thought it was pretty slick of me.  Thank you very
much.  Thank you.  
  
All right.  With all — in all seriousness, a couple things at the top.  
  
So, First Lady Jill Biden — Dr. Biden — a teacher for more than 30
years, is continuing her theme of “EGGucation” for today’s White House
Easter Egg Roll, transforming the South Lawn and Ellipse into a school
community full of fun educational activities for children of all ages to
enjoy.   
  
In total, approximately 40,000 people will take part in this year’s
event — 40,000 people.  
  
We do want to say a special thank you to the American Egg Board and
America’s egg farmers for continuing its more than 45-year history of
support for the event and for its donation of 64,000 eggs used on the
South Lawn and another 64,000 donated to the Capital Area Food Bank to
match the eggs used for the Roll.  
  
And I have some news for you at the top.  I know many of you were asking
this question over the weekend.  President Biden will travel to
Baltimore on Friday to visit the collapsed Francis Scott Key Bridge,
meet with state and local officials, and get on-the-ground — an
on-the-ground look at federal response efforts.  
  
The President is continuing to lead a whole-of-government approach to
the collapse.   
  
President Biden and his team are working with Governor Moore, the
congressional delegation, Mayor Scott, and numerous state and local ol-
— officials to reopen the port, rebuild the bridge, and support the
people of Baltimore.   
  
Through the unified command, the U.S. Coast Guard is coordinating a
complex and highly coordinated effort to remove the wreckage, with
resources from the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, the state of Maryland,
and others.   
  
Crane barges are on the scene, supporting the mission. In addition, the
Chesapeake 1000, the largest heavy-lift crane barge on the East Coast,
which is nearly 200 feet long and can lift 1,000 tons, arrived Thursday
night.  And on Saturday, the unified command successfully removed the
first piece of wreckage.  
  
Last week, within hours of receiving the request, the U.S. Department of
Transportation announced the immediate availability of $60 million in
“quick release” Emergency Relief funds for the Maryland Department of
Transportation.  
  
We’re also doing everything that we can to help address economic
impacts.   
  
On Saturday, the Small Business Administration quickly approved a
disaster declaration and will provide low-interest disaster loans to
eligible affected business — businesses. Today, the SBA is launching two
Business Recovery Centers in Baltimore County.  These centers will
support impacted business owners in com- — in completing their disaster
loan applications.  
  
The Department of Labor is working with local and state officials to
determine how to assist workers out of — out of work due to closure of
the port.  Acting Secretary of Labor Julie Su is in Baltimore today
meeting with stakeholders.   
  
And twice last week, the White House convened a meeting for the
Biden-Harris administration Supply Chain <s>Disruptors</s>
\[Disruptions\] Task Force to discuss potential impacts on regional and
national supply chains.  
  
As the President said within hours of the collapse, this administration
will be with the people of Baltimore every step of the way.  We are with
you, Baltimore, and we will be there until — until we get this done.  
  
Q    Karine, is he viewing by air, land, and sea, like flying by Air
Force One?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We will — we will have more — we will have more
information as we get closer to — to Friday.  I think the important
thing is the President has said we just — he was going to go as soon as
possible.  Now he’s — he is going to go on Friday.  We certainly will
have more information to share.  I just don’t have any details at this
time.  
  
Go ahead, Will.  
  
Q    Thank you.  So, the criticism over the Transgender Day of
Visibility.  The White House said that the President wouldn’t abuse his
faith for political purposes.  Does the President think that’s what
Republicans are doing on this issue?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, look, just a couple of things. And really, so
surprised by the misinformation that’s been out there around this, and I
want to be very clear.  
  
Every year, for the past several years, on March 31st, Transgen- —
Transgender Day of Visibility is marked.  And as we know — for folks who
understand the calendar and how it works, Easter falls on different
Sundays — right? — every year.  
  
And this year, it happened to coincide with Trans- — Transgender
Visibility Day.  And so, that is the simple fact.  That is what has
happened.  That is where we are.  
  
And I do want to say a couple of things, because I think it’s important
here.  As you just stated in your question, what we’ve been hearing out
there — a lot of misinformation done on purpose.   
  
And as a Christian who celebrates Easter with family, President Biden
stands for bringing people together and upholding the dignity and
freedoms of every American.  
  
Now, sadly — and it’s not surprising, right?  It is actually
unsurprising that politicians are seeking to divide and weaken our
country with cruel, hateful, and dishonest rhetoric.  It is dishonest
what we have heard the past 24 hours.  It is untrue what we heard over
the weekend.  
  
And, you know, we — we were, at first — I want to be very clear —
confused on their coverage.  We’re grateful that Fox agrees with
President Biden about the importance of recognizing Trans Day of
Visibility.  
  
And I’ll just quote something that Fox said back in 2021.  They tweeted
this.  “Trans Day of visibility is dedicated to celebrating transgender
people.  To all the transgender men, women, and non-bari- — binary folk,
we see you and stand with you.”  
  
President Biden will never abuse his faith or — for political purposes
or for profit.  That is not what this administration is about.  That is
not what being a leader is about.  
  
And this misinformation out there is just — it’s just — it’s bad.  And
it is dividing — it is caused to divide us.  
  
And I want to say one more quote.  This is what Politico covered. 
“Every year” — and I said this at the top of my answer — “Transgender
Day of Visibility is on March 31st.”  This year, March 31st just so
happens to be also Easter, the date of which changes every year.  That’s
how I started out.  And that’s how I’ll end.  
  
Q    Thank you.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  Why are the U.S. and Israelis meeting virtually
today instead of having that in-person meeting on Rafah?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, as you know, I can confirm that there is a virtual
mee- — meeting happening today with both U.S. officials, Israeli
officials to discuss Rafah — the situation in Rafah and, obviously, the
next steps that we have been hearing that the Israeli government wants
to take.   
  
This is — this is following the discussions that we — we all talked
about last week with the Israeli Minister of Defense and his delegation.
 And this conversation today is being led by National Security Advisor
Jake Sullivan.  
  
Look, I think it’s important to note that we were rea- — we were able to
reschedule this on Friday.  And we wanted to move very quickly on this. 
And, today, the meeting is happening virtually, because we understand —
and, obviously, you all understand — how important it is to have this
conversation.  
  
We have been very clear about our concerns about a military operation
into Rafah.  We know that there are more than a million Palestinians who
are in Rafah right now, who moved from the north to go into Rafah.   
  
And so, we want to make sure, if there is going to be a military
operation — we also know that there are Hamas operators in Rafah as well
— but if they are going to move forward with a military operation, we
have to have this conversation.  We have to understand how they’re going
to move forward.  
  
We — and I’ll say one more thing.  When Jake Sullivan was here at the
podium not too long ago, he believed and he said there are alterniv- —
alternative ways of doing this –alternative ways of going after
Hamas.   
  
And so, they’re going to have the discussion.  I think it’s important
that it happen as quickly as — as it did, even though it’s virtual.  And
we’ll certainly have more to share.  
  
Q    Are there still in-person meetings planned and, if so, when this
week?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We — we will have more to share on the next steps. 
We’re going to have a readout of this conversation.  But I think —
rescheduled on Friday.  Today, Monday, we’re having a conversation.  We
have laid out our concerns about this for some time.  And I think it’s
important that both sides are having this discussion.   
  
Q    And just lastly, Speaker Johnson said there will be a vote on
Ukraine soon when the House comes back from recess.  But he said it
would include some “innovations,” like making some portion of it a
loan.  If that’s the only way to get Ukraine aid passed, would the
President sign that kind of bill?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m not going to get into hypoth- — hypotheticals
here.   
  
We’ve been very clear.  We believe if the Speaker were to put the
national security supplemental on the floor — obviously, it includes
Ukraine, humanitarian aid, Israel, the Indo-Pacific — we believe and it
is fact that it would get majority bipartisan support on — on the floor
in the House.   
  
We saw, 70 to 29, it passed out of the Senate — bipartisan support —
overwhelming bipartisan support.  We believe it would get overwhelming
bipartisan support if he would put it on the floor.  That’s all he needs
to do.   
  
And so, that’s what we believe the — the Speaker — how it should be
moved forward.  I’m just not going to get into hypotheticals.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Do you expect specific decisions to come out of the Rafah meeting
today, Karine?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m not going to get ahead of the meeting.  We will
have a readout of — of that meeting.  I’m just not going to — I’m not
going to get ahead of it.  
  
Q    And then, secondly, the — the Israelis bombed Iran’s consulate
building in Damascus today.  It apparently killed an Iranian military
commander.  Did you know about this in advance?  Are you concerned this
is an escalation?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, I’m aware of the reports.  Our team is
looking into it.  So, I’m not going to get ahead of anything just yet. 
But, obviously, we’re aware of the reports, and our team is looking into
it.  I’m just not going to go beyond that.   
  
Q    And then, lastly, if I could, do you have an update on how to pay
for the new bridge?  Have you — have you had conversations with House
Republicans about this?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, as — as I mentioned at the top, we — Department of
Transportation was able to release $16- — $60 million, which, obviously,
is going to be really important — a kind of a down payment, if you will,
on getting — on dealing on — on getting that bridge rebuilt.   
  
We’re going to have continued conversation with the state of Maryland to
get a sense of how much this is going to cost.  And we have said we’re
going to certainly continue to talk to Congress to get some assistance
here.   
  
The President has been very clear.  He’s going to be there for the
people of Baltimore.  This is a whole-of-government approach, and we are
going to do everything that we can to make sure that that bridge gets
back up.  I don’t have anything further to share on congressional
conversation.  But that’s a commitment that the President has made.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  “60 Minutes” reported last night on a connection
between anomalous health incidents and a unit of the Russian military
intelligence service.  What’s the White House’s reaction to that
reporting?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I’m going to be really careful here.  The
intelligence community has not concluded that.  Obviously, there was an
assessment that intelligence community made.  And so, I would have to
refer you to the — to ODNI on their assessment.  But that particular
piece about Russia — I know that they had not concluded that.  
  
Q    Right.  And I know that the — the intelligence community has said
that it’s — they still think it’s un- — not likely that a foreign power
is responsible.  How can the administration continue to believe that
when you have so many credible U.S. officials who have experienced this
saying otherwise?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, this is an intel- — intelligence community
assessment.  ODNI can speak specifically on how they got to that
assessment, how they got to that conclusion.  So, I want to be super
mindful.   
  
What I can speak to is what we have done since 2023 since the
intelligence committee assessment.  And we have taken this very
seriously.  The President takes U.S. personnel — making sure that they
are protected is the most important.   
  
A couple of steps that we took: We prioritized investigations into the
cause of AH- — AHIs and to examine reports thoroughly.   
  
Now, this is something that the President directed the departments in
the federal government — obviously, across the federal government — to
do: ensure that U.S. government personnel and their families who report
AHIs receive the support and timely access to medical care that they
need and — and to take reports of AH- — AHIs seriously and — and threat
to personnel with respect and compassion.   
  
So, we have taken some actions that will — that — that the President
directed his agencies across the federal government.  
  
At — any specifics to the intelligence assessment, I would have to refer
you to ODNI.  
  
Q    And the Pentagon confirmed another aspect of “60 Minutes” reporting
today, that a Department of Defense official who was in Vilnius for the
NATO Summit last year also experienced what appears to be AHI.  Can you
give us any update on that person’s condition?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I don’t have any update.  I’m very careful about
speaking to any personnel-specific case.  So, I can’t — I don’t want to
do that from here.  I would have to refer you on Department of Defense,
since that came from the Department of Defense.   
  
Q    Bottom line: Are U.S. officials who are working on issues related
to Russia — particularly overseas — are they safe?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, we are going to continue to emphasize the
importance of prioritizing — right? — making sure that personnel are,
you know, protected.  And we are going to do everything that we can. 
This is something that this President believes is important.   
  
And so, look, we’re going to get to the — we’re going to continue to do
a comprehensive examine — examination of the effects here that we’re
seeing and the potential causes of AHI.  That’s something that we’re
going to continue to look into.   
  
And, look, we take this very seriously.  We take this very serious. 
This is why we have taken an all-of-government approach and — and have
directed agencies to do the three things that I listed out.  And, you
know, it — this is — this is important.  We see this as a — as — as a
important issue that we want to — to, certainly, prioritize.  And that’s
what we have been doing since 2023.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you.  Is the President hosting an iftar dinner tomorrow?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I don’t have anything to confirm here.  As you
know, very early on this month, we put out a statement marking the first
day of Ramadan.  This is March, obviously, we did that.   
  
The President wishes all who observe Ramadan a safe, healthy, and
blessed month.  In his statement, he spoke to the appalling resurgence
of hate and violence towards Muslim Americans.  He also spoke to the
need to secure a ceasefire as part of a hostage deal in our efforts to
signif- — significantly increase humanitarian aid into Gaza.   
  
And that’s something that you’ve heard us talk about.  You’ve heard us
actually take actions in the past couple of weeks, whether it’s the
pier, whether it’s the plane drop and working with Israel, obviously, to
get that — increase the humanitarian aid.  And so, we’re going to
continue to do that.   
  
We don’t have — I don’t have anything to — to share with you at this
moment.   
  
Q    But if he does host an iftar dinner, would you announce that in
advance the way you do for Hanukkah gatherings —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I —  
  
Q    — or other kinds of gatherings?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I just don’t have anything to share on — on an event
com- — an upcoming event at this time.  I just don’t have anything to
share.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    On LNG and Ukraine aid.  Can you say, is the President open to
suspending the pause on — the administration’s pause on — on new LNG
approvals in exchange for Ukraine aid?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, as we said repeatedly, the House needs to pass the
bipartisan national security supplemental.  I’ve been saying that.  It
was the first thing I said when I came to the podium — one of the first
things.  And we want to see that as soon as possible.  We know it would
get bipartisan support overwhelmingly if it were to go to the floor of
the House.  That’s what we want to see.   
  
As I stated, it’s already passed the Senate 70-29.  So, it’s important
to move forward.   
  
And we’ve also talked about — Jake Sullivan has talked about, my
National Security Council colleague has talked about this as well — is
that we — or Ukraine can’t afford any more delays.  We have seen what’s
been happening the past several weeks, the past several months in
Ukraine.  They are losing ground on the battlefield.   
  
Q    So, are you saying it’s still on the table?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, what I’m saying is that we have to pass the
bipartisan national security supplemental.  That’s what we want to see. 
If we want to —  
  
Q    All right.  So, you can’t say if Biden is — is willing to —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We — look —  
  
Q    — make that exchange?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  This is — this is where we are at this moment in
time.  We want to make sure that national security supplemental is moved
forward.  It could get bipartisan support.  We know it will.  We know it
would get overwhelming support if they put it on the floor, right?  
  
And Congress’s inaction has led to Ukraine losing footing in the
battlefield.  That’s what we’ve seen.  That’s what we’ve seen.  And so,
Congress needs to act.  It is — in order to actually deal with this, in
order to give Ukraine — the Ukrainians what they need, the brave
Ukrainians on the ground what they need —  
  
Q    So, can you say if the President is open to (inaudible) with the
Speaker?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m just — I’m just not going to negotiate from the
podium.  That’s what we — we’ve always been very clear from that — from
here.  I’m not going to get into hypotheticals.   
  
We know what needs to be done.  And what needs to be done is to put that
national security supplemental — passed out of the Senate in a
bipartisan fashion, 70 to 29 — we believe it can get passed
overwhelmingly in a bipartisan fashion in the House.  I just want to be
mindful and not get into hypotheticals from here.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    On the reporting about the health incidents.  Because a lot of
these concerns and incidents are happening on the President’s and Vice
President’s trip, do you know if the President or Vice President have
met with anyone who has been impacted by any of these health concerns?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, it’s a good question.  I don’t have — I don’t have
any readout or any conversations to — to say or to speak to at this
time.   
  
Q    And then, these officials are saying they’re speaking out because
they don’t agree with the ODNI assessment.  Is the President going to,
you know, implore Director Haines to look at these claims more
closely?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, there was a nat- — an assessment that was
done, as you just stated in your — in your statement — in your question
to me.  I would have to — we trust our — our intelligence community,
right?  And they put out an assessment.  So, I would have to refer you
to ODNI.  I can’t get into any sp- — more specifics than that.   
  
Q    So, the President is standing by that assessment and —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  It is —  
  
Q    — that’s the end of the road?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  He is standing by the assessment.  I would have to
refer you to ODNI.   
  
Go ahead, April.  
  
Q    Karine, I have two different subjects related to one topic.  When
it comes to the Baltimore port, is the President or Democrat- — or are
you hearing from Democrats, particularly in this building, that there’s
a concern that Republicans aren’t moving in an expeditious fashion?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, I can’t — I can’t speak to that right now.  What
I can speak to: what the President has been doing.  He has said he’s
going to use a whole-of-government approach.  You heard the Department
of Transportation — you heard me at the top say that $60 million has
been provided to get that bridge done.   
  
And, look, we’re going to do everything that we can to get the port open
as soon as possible, obviously, to build that bridge as — as soon as
possible.  The timeline is going to be complicated.  It is a complicated
scenario.  So, I don’t have a timeline on that.   
  
Look, we’re going to have conversations with congressional members. 
We’re going to, certainly, talk to them on what else is needed, if there
is additional funding — there is going to be additional funding needed
to get this done.   
  
I’m not going to go into — into specifics at this time.   
  
Q    Are Republicans invited to the White House this week or next week
to talk about this?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have any schedule about any congressional
conversations here happening at the White House.  But I would say the —
you know, our — our Leg Affairs — White House Leg Affairs has regular
communication with — with congressional members.  Department of
Transportation, as well, has regular communication with congressional
members.  And so, that’s going to continue.   
  
I just don’t have a — a formal — a formal meeting to be happening here
—  
  
Q    And the —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — on this particular issue.  
  
Q    And the next subject that’s related to this.  After all of us — the
world watched how that cargo ship — that multi-hundred-ton barge ran
into the pillar, is there a concern about assessing bridges that deal
with these kind of things around the nation?  Has there been talk about
that?  Because this was — yes, it was catastrophic, but this government
seems to be very reactionary.  When something happens, it jumps on to
try to fix it.  And —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Which I think is a good thing.  I think, when
something happens, the fact that this administration jumps on top of it
and tries to make sure that we don’t forget the communities, we assist,
and we get communities put back together — right? — the — the bridge is
something that the Balti- — people of the — Baltimore are feeling very
acutely.  And so, we’re going to, certainly, do everything that we can
to get that bridge back up and to get the port open.

Look — but as you’re asking me about bridges and — and, certainly,
infrastructure —

Q    Throughout the nation, that’s (inaudible).

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No — but that’s why the bipartisan infrastructure
legislation was so important.  Let’s not forget, that infrastructure law
is now going to really deal with infrastructure in a generation.  It is
something that is a — an investment in our infrastructure, not just
bridges.  We’re talking about tunnels.  We’re talking about roads,
right?  We’re talking about broadband, right?

These are incredibly important.  And creating jobs — creating
good-paying union jobs.

And so, that is what the President has said he was going to do.  The
last administration turned it into a joke.  It was Infrastructure Week
every week, and he did absolutely nothing. 

And so, this administration was able to get a Bipartisan Infrastructure
Law done.  And so, we are — we are proud to have been able to do that. 
Obviously, it’s going to speak to the bridges. It’s going to speak to
bridge- — to — to roads and tunnels.  And I think that’s important that
that was able to get done within the President’s first term.

Go ahead.

Q    Thank you, Karine.  International doctors has been describing
horrific scene at the Shifa Hospital.  Three hundred bodies were found. 
Some were tied up and executed, including doctors, women, and children. 
Is the White House calling for an independent investigation?  And
second, do you believe that Israel is in violation of international law?

And just on another topic.  The Israeli Knesset, the parliament, just
passed a law banning international media from working in Israel.  You
always call Israel as an ally that you share values with.  Is this a
value that you share with?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, a couple — you asked me two very important
questions, and I want to get to — to them.

So, as it relates to — and I think you were speaking specifically — at
least the reports that we’ve seen — is about Al Jazeer- — Jazeera,
specifically.  But it doesn’t matter, whichever — right? — journalists
more broadly.  But at — to those particular report, we’ve seen the
reports, and, certainly, I’m going to refer to Israel for what they may
or may not be considering.

But it — if it is true — if it is true, a move like this is concerning. 
We believe in the freedom of the press.  It is critical.  It is
critically important.  And the United States supports the critically
important work journalists around the world do.  And so — and that
includes those who are reporting in — in the conflict in Gaza.

So, we believe that work is important, the freedom of the press is
important.  And if those reports are true, it is concerning to us.

And to your first question.  So, look, Hamas should not — should not be
operating out of hospitals — we have said that — we’ve said that over
and over again — and putting civilians at risk.  That’s what we’re
seeing.  And we are concerned by how Hamas appears — they appear to have
been able to reconstitute in a hospital so quickly.

So, we’ve always ma- — also made clear that we continue to support
Israel’s right to defend itself.  But — but as we’ve also said, we do
not want firefights in a hospital where innocent people — people —
helpless people, people seeking medical care are caught in the — in a
crossfire.  We don’t want to see that.

We have urged Israel to take every step to avoid civilian casualties. 
And this just points to how challenging Israel’s military operation is
because Hamas has intentionally embedded themselves into — into civilian
infrastructure, into these hospital.

And so — and so, we’ve been very clear.  As — as it relates to the
footage, as it relates to the photos and recordings, we have not
verified that photo- — footage.  We’re — we’re going to be reaching out
to the Israeli government to get more information.

But obviously, if these reports are true, that is indeed deeply
concerning.

Q    But this difference between the civilized world and uncivilized
world is sticking to international law at the time of war.   
  
So, regardless, even if these people were Hamas, do you believe that
under international law Israel has the right to execute people, even if
Hamas, which you consider a terrorist organization — regardless, you can
hold them to the same standard as a professional army that often the
White House praise as a professional army, they know what they’re doing,
and even sometimes you said, “I wish the U.S. Army behaved like the
Israelis”?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I hear your question, and I have said it is deeply
concerning if it’s true.  We are reaching out to Israel government to
get more information.  And that is also important to do.  We have to
make sure that the- — this — what we’re hearing is verified — right? —
that the footage is also verified.

But we’ve been very clear.  Like, this is — we also have to call out
Hamas here.  They are operating out of hospitals — out of hospitals. 
That’s what they’re doing.  They’re embedding themselves in civilian
population.  This is what they’re doing.  And so, we have to be, also,
very clear about that.   
  
And we have said we’ve urged Israel to take every step that they — to
avoid civilian casualties.  So, we’re going to re- — we’re going to
reach out to the Israeli government, get more information on that.  And
it i- — if that is indeed the case, it is deeply concerning.  It is
deeply concerning.

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  Just kind of going back to the LNG pause for a
minute.  In January, when the pause was announced, the President put out
a statement, and he said, “This pause on new LNG approvals sees the
climate crisis for what it is: the existential threat of our time.”

Does the President still believe that that LNG pause is so necessary?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Nothing has changed.  Nothing has changed in our — in
our — in our posture on LNG.

Go ahead.

Q    Great.  So —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.

Go ahead, Jon.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  Back in 2007, there was another deadly bridge
collapse.  It happened in Minnesota.  And days after, Congress reacted. 
They passed the funding to replace that bridge.  Is the President
disappointed that there isn’t that same sense of urgency as it relates
to the Key Bridge in Baltimore?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, what I can speak to right now — in this
time, in this moment — is the — what — what the President has promised:
a whole-of-government approach here — response.  That’s what you’ve
seen.

The Department of Transportation was able to provide $70- — $60
million.  Just last week, they made that announcement.  You heard me
talk about that at the top.  And we will, of course — of course, we are
going to work with Congress to ensure that we have the — the resources —
right? — needed so that we can make sure that this is fully covered —
the rebuilding of the bridge is fully cov- — covered.

I’m not going to go beyond — beyond that.  We’re going to have those
conversations.  We’re going to make sure that we are there for the
people of Baltimore.  That is the President’s promise.  He said that the
federal government is going to fully pay for that.  And he’s going to
stand by his word.

Q    Thank you, Karine.  Also, on Baltimore.  The six victims of the
collapse of the bridge were Latino — from Mexico, Guatemala, El
Salvador, and Honduras.  Is the President planning to meet with the
families of the victims?  And more broadly, what the White House is
doing to help these families that now are facing difficult decisions,
for example, where to hold the funeral because some of the family
members cannot leave to the home country, some others cannot come here.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    So, what are you doing about that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, going to give you more about what the President is
going to be doing on Friday in the next upcoming days.  We’ll have more
details to share to all of you.  And so, I’ll leave it there about what
— what we’re going to be doing on that day.  
  
As it relates to the family members, you may have heard Tom Perez, last
week, met with a couple of the family members when he was in Baltimore. 
He did a press conference and talked about that and laid that out.  So,
certainly, we’ve been in touch with the family members.  
  
I just want to be super careful.  And, you know, they are mourning at
this time.  And so, just don’t want to go beyond that.  
  
Q    Is the White House considering some kind of parole to let the
people come and —   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have anything beyond — beyond that.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Just a couple more on Baltimore.  You went into it a little bit at
the top, but what does the President hope to get out of the visit on
Friday?  Like, what does he want to see and what does he want to hear
when he’s there?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, you know, sadly, he — he’s done these kind
of — kind of visits.  Not — obviously, not this dramatic with a bridge
before, but he has been there for communities when they’ve experienced a
traumatic event like the people of Baltimore have.   
  
And I think it’s important for him for — for people to — for — for folks
who are working on the ground, whether it’s the first responders who
were there in the first couple of hours or the folks who are there now,
to see from — from — to see the President, to hear from the
Commander-in-Chief, to know that he appreciates the work that they’ve
been doing around the clock, to also be there for the community.   
  
You know, we’ve seen Governor Moore, we’ve seen the mayor do everything
that they can for the community in this time.  And so, the President
wants to be there as well.   
  
He’s going to be — Governor Moore is going to be joining him.  I can
share — share that with all of you.  And, certainly, we’ll have more
beyond that.   
  
And so, I think it’s important for — when — when something like this —
when something this traumatic — six people died, a community is affected
by this bridge — to have the President be there.   
  
And so, we know that there’s a whole-of-government approach happening
here — a response.  And — and so, the President is going to see for
himself what happened, see for himself the work that’s being done.  
  
I don’t want to get ahead of what that’s going to look like.  I know I
was asked if he’s going to do it by air or land.  I just don’t have any
details at this time.  
  
Q    And sea.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  And sea.  
  
Q    Yes.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  True.  And sea.  
  
We’ll have more details to share if the family members are going to be
there.  We’ll just have more details to share.  Obviously, he’ll be
there with Governor Moore, and he will assess himself and see for
himself and hear directly from — from the people who are on the ground
doing the work.  
  
Q    And Governor Moore and Mayor Scott were facing personal attacks in
the wake of the bridge collapse last week.  When was the last time the
President talked to them?  And did they talk about that?  What’s the
White House response to that?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, I think Governor Moore said it perfectly on
Sunday: We do not have time for this foolishness.  We just don’t.  We
don’t have time for this foolishness.   
  
And our focus is reopening the port, making sure that bridge gets
rebuilt, making sure that we are there — we are there for the people of
Baltimore.   
  
And so, I will add that these claims are baseless and they’re just
wrong.  They’re just wrong.  And we’re not going to let these
misinformation, disinformation — these horrible statements that are
being made distract us from the work that the people of Baltimore want
us to do.   
  
And so, we just have no time for — for any of this foolishness.  And
that is, I think, the best way that could be said by — by the Gov- —
Governor Moore, who said this yesterday.   
  
Q    Are you speaking of the words “DEI mayor”?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  Oh yeah.  Yeah.  I — I’m — I’m referring — I
mean, Karen could speak to her question, but they’ve been under attack. 
There was the “DEI” comment on the mayor.  There’s been other really
misguided, misinformed, just awful — awful statements that have been
made.  And those are wrong and those are baseless.  And we cannot be
distracted here.  
  
Q    Are they racist statements?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, what I can say is they’re wrong and they’re
baseless.  And I think that — that’s pretty — that goes pretty far,
right?  And let’s not forget, six people — six people lost their lives. 
Six people lost their lives.  
  
Go ahead, Jared.  
  
Q    As you have these conversations with Congress about the funding
needed to reopen the port and — and reopen — rebuild the bridge, are
there also conversations about any additional legislation that may be
needed as it relates to, like, regulation or oversight?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, I — I’m not going to get into — I’m not
going to get ahead of the funding conversations here that we’re having. 
And I think that’s what is the focus here right now, is to make sure
that we have the funding, that we get that bridge built, make sure that
we open that port.  I think that’s really important.   
  
I just don’t want to get into — not going to get ahead.  As you know,
there’s an investigation happening.  So, I don’t want to get ahead of
that.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Does the President support the $20 minimum wage that’s going into
effect for fast-food workers in California today?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Let me look into that.  I have not seen that — that
reporting.   
  
Obviously, the President believes that every worker should be paid, you
know — you know, should be able to — to be — able to be paid to support
their family.   
  
And we hear — you hear the President talk about making sure that, you
know, folks are able to live in dignity — right? — and respect — have
that dignity and respect to raise their family.   
  
You hear the President talk about his own experience growing up and how
difficult it is to be — when you’re around that — when you’re around the
kitchen table making those difficult decisions.  
  
On this particular report, I just — I don’t want to speak — speak in —
speak about it until I get more — more information.  
  
Q    Okay.  And — but going back to the LNG export ban.  The Energy
Secretary has said that that’s a temporary pause.  I’m wondering how
long “temporary” is.  And if it is to the level that — that was read out
earlier, you know, related to the climate crisis, are there plans to
make it permanent?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I would refer you to the Department of Energy.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you so much.  Starting with Turkey, can you just tell us a
little bit more about the Turkish President’s visit next month, what
priorities the two presidents bring to this meeting?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  We’ll have — we’ll have more to share as we get
closer to that — to that date.  I don’t want to get ahead of, obviously,
what’s actually going to happen in the meeting.  But certainly, we’ll
have more to share.  
  
Q    Cool.  Then I’ll move on to — a Chinese national was arrested for
trespassing on a California naval base.  Does this speak to larger
concerns that the White House has about possible Chinese spying,
national security?  And what are you doing about this?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, we take those types of incidents very
seriously.  I can’t speak to case — case by case, but, obviously, that’s
something that we take very seriously.  We work with folks on the ground
when we see those types of cases pop up.  But I just don’t — and I just
don’t want to get too fur- — too — too far into it.  
  
Q    And, finally, on Senegal.  The President and the Secretary of State
congratulated the new President — the 44-year-old President.  This is
leading to other societies in West Africa pushing for quicker elections,
for a loosening of their entrenched leadership.  How does the White
House see that?  And is that something that you’d support?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Say that last part — it relates to?  Say that last
part.  
  
Q    Sorry.  We’re seeing now that other countries — Mali, Burkina Faso,
to name just two — their citizenry are now pushing for democratic
transitions.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.   
  
Q    Is that something you guys support?  What are you doing to support
that?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I think it’s important — right? — free and fair
elections, democracy working at its best, in this — in this regard.  I
think it’s incredibly important. 

I — that is — you know, that is something for each individual domestic
country to decide on — on.  But I think it’s important to have free and
fair elections, let the civilians — let the people decide who is going
to represent them.   
  
I mean, that’s something that we have said multiple times on every
election.   
  
Q    Will the President host his new Senegalese counterpart?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  (Laughs.)  I don’t have a call to readout or anything
to speak to at this point.   
  
Q    Thank you.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  Most of the border crossers accused of beating up
Texas National Guardsmen in a riot last month were released on their own
recognizance Sunday.  How does that make people in this country any
safer?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I have to refer you to Department of Justice and
DHS on that particular reporting.  I will say this: As the event
unfolded, the Border Patrol was able to act quickly and get the
situation under control and apprehend the migrants.  And we were
grateful that the Border Patrol was able to do their job.   
  
Look, there is a challenge at the border.  Right?  Our immigration
system has been broken for decades, before — even before this President
became president, obviously, three year- — more than three years ago.   
  
And this President, a couple of months ago, worked with the Senate in a
bipartisan fashion to get a negotiation done.  Right?  And what we saw
is, from the last president — President Trump told Republicans in
Congress not to move forward with this negotiation — this agreed
negotiation, this agreed plan, this agreed proposal because it would
help Joe Biden.  That’s what was reported by some of you.   
  
And we can actually deal with this.  We can actually deal with — with
what we’re seeing.  And because they didn’t move forward — right? —
because they didn’t move forward with this proposal, because of the last
president and because they — they put politics inhea- — ahead of the
American people, we are seeing chaos.   
  
And so, we want to get this done.  We did.  We worked with Congress to
get this done, to deal with the challenges at the border.  President
Trump got in the way.  And because President Trump got in the way,
Republicans are now getting in the way.   
  
Q    So, does President Biden wish that Republicans in Congress would
help him make a law that made it easier to deport people?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  What the President wants to see is he wants
congressional Republicans to pass, to move forward with a bipartisan
border security agreement — a bipartisan border security agreement that
was supported by the Border Patrol union, U.S. Chamber of Commerce —
something that we don’t see nowadays.  And we were able to get that
done.  
  
What the President wants to see is that being passed.  He wants
congressional Republicans to not put politics first, to put — majority
of Americans want us to deal with this issue.  That’s what the President
wants to see.  
  
Q    Totally different topic.  How worried do Americans need to be about
squatters?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  About squatters?  
  
Q    About squatters.  There’s a lot of stories out there: Homeowners
are showing up at places that they own where the locks have been
changed, some squatter has moved in, and the homeowner has no rights. 
Does President Biden think that is right?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, if — my understanding is that this is, obviously,
a — a local issue.  We are certainly tracking that issue.  The rights of
property owners and renters must be protected.  And we believe that, you
know, ultimately, what needs to happen is the local government needs to
make sure that they address this and they take action.   
  
And so, everyone in their community in this country wants the same
thing, right?  They all want the same thing.  They want their families
to be safe.  And that’s what we want as well.  We want to make sure that
Americans and their families feel safe.   
  
Q    In Florida, there’s a new law where victims of squatting can call
the cops and have the squatters removed.  Would President Biden support
something like that?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m — I’m not going to get into — into hypotheticals
from here.  What I can say is that, ultimately, this is a local issue. 
And it is critical that — that local governments take action to address
it.   
  
Again, everybody wants the same thing.  They want to feel safe in their
communities.  That’s what they want.   
  
We certainly are tracking these stories.   
  
AIDE:  Karine —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  All right.  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Hi.  So, last week, when Secretary Pete Buttigieg came, he talked
about the Baltimore bridge collapse will be affecting 8,000 workers.  I
was wondering if the White House had any plans for these workers.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I know that the Department of Labor — the Acting
Secretary, Julie Su, is certainly working on to- –is on top of this. 
So, cer- — I would refer you to the Department of Labor on what they’re
doing specifically to make sure that workers are certainly — are — you
know, their — their needs are being addressed.   
  
But want to be really clear.  We’re taking all of this seriously. 
Right?  We’re — we’re taking — this is a whole-of-government approach. 
And so, the Department of Labor has — has had meetings with
stakeholders, as I said at the top, and looking into this and trying to
figure out how we can be helpful here.   
  
I know I can do one more.  Go ahead.  I haven’t — go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you.  I wanted to ask about Adeel Mangi, who is nominated for
a seat on the circuit court.  Can you talk about what you all are doing
specifically to get him confirmed after —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Which — which —  
  
Q    Mangi is his last name.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.   
  
Q    M-A-N-G-I.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    There were three Democratic senators now who have said they won’t
vote for his confirmation.  Are you all doing anything specific to
change their minds?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, we — I don’t want to speak — speak
specifically to members.  But I have said this many times before: The
President was very proud to nominate Adeel Mangi, whose extraordinary
qualifications and integrity are gaining him new backing each day, as
well as retired Circuit Judge Timothy Lewis, who was appointed by
President George H.W. Bush.  That’s somebody who has supported it.   
  
He is now being backed by nearly a dozen law enforcement organizers, as
well as former New Jersey Attorney General –Attorney General and former
U.S. attorneys who served under Republican and Democratic governors and
presidents.  He’s also backed by the AFL-C — and CIO.   
  
We are doing everything that we can to make sure that he gets through. 
This Senate should side with qualities that make America exceptional,
which Mr. Mangi embodies, not the hateful forces that we’re seeing
trying to — to force America into the past.   
  
And so, we’re going to continue — our — our office here, the President
is going to continue to do everything that we can to get him through. 
We believe he’s extraordinarily qualified to — for this position.  The
President is proud to have nominated him, and we’re going to continue to
do the work.   
  
Go ahead, Brian.  You’re the last one.  
  
Q    Hi.  Thanks a lot.  On the Key Bridge in Baltimore — Key Bridge
collapse and the impact it has had on the Baltimore port.  Does
President Biden want Americans to be prepared for any supply chain
problems?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, you heard us — you heard me at the top lay out the
meet- — some meetings that we were able to do.  The task force met a
couple times last week.  As you just stated, the port is — is one of the
nation’s largest, as you were alluding to, shipping hubs.  And — and the
Francis Scott \[Key\] Bridge is critical to travel in the Northeast
Corridor.   
  
So, we have engaged in- — intensively with industry ocean carriers,
ports, and labor unions to minimize disruptions as shipments are
rerouted while the — the Port of Baltimore is closed to — to ship
traffic.  So, the Small Business Administr- — Administration has been
quickly activated, obviously.  I said this at the top.  You have the
Department of Labor as well.   
  
This is a whole-of-government approach.  The Department of
Transportation; we had the U.S. Coast Guard Admiral here that was able
to — who’s running that effort, obviously, to — to deal with the cleanup
and what we’re seeing there at — in Baltimore.   
  
And so, we are going to be there for the people of Baltimore.  That is
what the President has said.  We’re going to be there every step of the
way.  You’re going to see the President on Friday.  We’ll have more
details to share as we get closer to that day.   
  
But all-of-government approach — Small Business Administration,
Department of Labor, Department of Transportation, we are going to be
there for — for the people of Baltimore.

Q    What’s the President’s current assessment on supply chain
disruptions (inaudible)?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, we’re obviously going to be monitoring this. 
We’re going to be looking closely into that.  And that’s why we have
activated — the President has made sure that we’re doing this in a — in
a — you know, in a strategic way, in a smart way, and dealing with all
the stakeholders that’s going to be affected by this.

All right.  Thanks, everybody.  I’ll see you tomorrow.  
  
Q    Karine, is the President going to throw out the first pitch —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’ll see you tomorrow, guys.  
  
Q    — at Nationals Park this week?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’ll — I’ll see you tomorrow.  I’ll be back
tomorrow.  
  
Enjoy the day.

1:23 P.M. EDT  
