---
date: '2024-04-18'
published_time: 2024-04-18 14:30:52-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/04/18/press-gaggle-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-and-national-security-communications-advisor-john-kirby-en-route-philadelphia-pa/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Gaggle by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre and National Security Communications\
  \ Advisor John Kirby En Route Philadelphia,\_PA"
---
 
11:53 A.M. EDT

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Hey.  Hey, guys.  We sadly don’t have a lot of time. 
So, let me just do this at the top really quickly, and then I’ll turn it
off — turn it over.  
  
So, we do have some news for you at the top.  On Monday, April 22nd, the
President will travel to Virginia to celebrate Earth Day.  We will have
more details, obviously, to share in the upcoming days.  But the
President is looking forward to celebrating Earth Day next week.

I do want to give a qu- — a statement about what we saw in Arizona
yesterday.

For the second time, Republican elected officials in Arizona have — have
blocked efforts to repeal the state’s extreme and dangerous abortion ban
from 1864.  
  
This law, which includes no exceptions when a woman’s health is at risk
or in tragic cases of rape or incest, threatens doctors with jail time
and will put the health and lives of women in Arizona at risk.  It is
outrageous.

After the Arizona Supreme Court’s ruling paved the way for this Civil
War-era ban to go into effect, Republican elected officials tried to
dance — to distance themselves from their own extreme agenda to rip away
women’s freedom.  But when Democratic elected officials in Arizona
offered a bill to repeal this arcane law, Republicans said no twice.

The President and the Vice President stand with the vast majority of
Americans who support a woman’s right to choose.  And the administration
will continue to fight to protect access to reproductive healthcare and
call on Congress to pass a law restoring the protections of Roe v. Wade
for women in — in every state.  
  
I know the Admiral doesn’t have a topper, but he’s happy —

MR. KIRBY:  No topper.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — to take any of your questions on the Middle East.  
  
Q    So, John, we saw the Iran sanctions this morning.  Why were these
targets not already sanctioned?  They were involved in Iran’s UAV
industry, which has been helping Russia fight its war in Ukraine.  Why
are there any targets that ha- — that —  
  
MR. KIRBY:  Look, sanctions — sanctions — the whole sanctions process is
an iterative process, and they can be cumulative too.  
  
I would remind you that, over the last three years, we’ve done 600
sanctions across a wide range of entities and individuals and
organizations and businesses across Iran.  These are specifically
targeted at their drone capability.  And — and we’ll keep the option
open for, you know, anymore that we need.

Q    Quickly, about the meeting today over Rafah — the virtual meeting. 

MR. KIRBY:  Yeah.

Q    Who is leading the talks from the U.S. side and —

MR. KIRBY:  Jake.

Q    And — and are you planning to discuss Israel’s plan to attack
Iran?  I mean, to what extent is that getting discussed?

MR. KIRBY:  The meeting is going on right now, so we’ll give you a
readout when it’s over.  I’m not going to get ahead of it.  The main
purpose really is to talk about Rafah and to continue to have a
conversation with the Israelis about their intentions and to also share
our — our continued concerns over a major ground offensive there.

Q    And — and a quick one on — on, you know, the President’s decision
to impose tariffs on China.  I mean, di- — had he mentioned that to
President Xi when he spoke to him a few days ago on, you know, the
decision to impose higher tariffs on steel?

MR. KIRBY:  I’ll just say that, broadly speaking, the President did talk
to President Xi about unfair trade practices and — and the flooding in
the global market of certain commodities that make it hard for American
workers and families and businesses. 

Q    John —

Q    What was his response?

MR. KIRBY:  I’ll leave it at that.

Q    John, can you give an update on discussions regarding hostage
negotiations — those Israeli hostage and American hostages that are
being held in Israel? 

And also, as part of that, is there proof of life for — that’s been
given to the Israelis as it relates to those who were abducted on
October the 7th of last year?

MR. KIRBY:  Proof of life for all of them?  I wish we had more
information, Jon.  We don’t.  That’s been the case since October 7th. 
We just don’t have the ability to know the individual condition of any
one hostage.  So, we’re — we’re obviously doing the best we can to try
to g- — gain as much information as we can.  But we don’t.

As for the status of negotiations, as I said earlier, I mean, for us,
this is still an active effort.  There’s still a proposal on the table. 
We urge Hamas to take that proposal.  And we’re waiting to see what they
do about it.

Q    Can I — can I just ask a follow-up?  If — if you don’t have any
information regarding proof of life, how can the Israelis negotiate, you
know, in — in fairness with —

MR. KIRBY:  They know who has been taken. 

Q    Okay.

MR. KIRBY:  They know who has been taken. 

Q    Right.

MR. KIRBY:  And — and we want them all back.

Sadly, if that means that not all of them come back alive, then they
still need to be with their families.  We just don’t know the condition
of each and every one of them.  You can’t count on Hamas to be perfectly
honest about — about all their conditions.  But we want them all back
regardless. 

Q    The U.N. Security Council vote tomorrow on recognizing statehood
for the Palestinian territory.  What’s the U.S. thinking on that?  And
are you prepared to use your veto?

MR. KIRBY:  We completely believe in the two-state solution and a state
for the Palestinian people.  We believe the best and the most
sustainable way to do that is through direct negotiations between the
parties. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Sorry, guys.  We’re going to have to sit.  Thanks,
everybody. 

(Cross-talk.)

Q    We didn’t address the cannibals.

Q    A couple of questions.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay. 

Q    Can we see the “cannibal” tab in your book?  (Laughter.) 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  There is no “cannibal” tab.  What are you talking
about?  (Laughter.)  Is that what you — is that what you’re asking me
about?

Q    I mean —

Q    Yeah.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  Look, I’ll just — and I think we shared this
with some of you, so I’m just going to kind of repeat.

Look, you saw the President.  He was incredibly proud of his uncle’s
service in uniform.  You saw him at the war memorial.  It was incredibly
emotional and important to him. 

You saw him respond to all of you when asked about the moment,
yesterday, and his uncle who lost his life when the military aircraft he
was on crashed in the Pacific after taking off near in New Guinea.  The
President highlighted his uncle’s story as he made the case for honoring
our sacred commitment to — to equip those we send to war and to take
care of them and their families when they come home. 

And as he reiterated that the last thing American veterans are are
“suckers” or “losers,” and he wanted to make that clear.  He wanted to
make —

Q    By embellishing the story? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, look, I — I don’t have anything beyond — but
what I just laid out.  But it was a really proud moment for him.  It was
incredibly emotional.  I think some of your colleagues, as — as you
know, Zeke, were there, and they got to witness the President pray at
the — at the war memo- — war memorial, look for his uncle’s name, honor
him. 

And I think we can’t — we can’t forget that moment.  And we cannot also
forget what it means to be a commander-in-chief, what it means to lift
up our service members, what it means to make sure that we respect their
service.  And he made that contrast very clear as to what we saw from
the former — former President. 

(Cross-talk.)

Sorry, guys.  Thank you.   
  
12:00 P.M. EDT
