---
date: '2024-04-08'
published_time: 2024-04-08 14:48:35-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/04/08/on-the-record-press-gaggle-by-white-house-national-security-communications-advisor-john-kirby-9/
tags: press-briefings
title: "On-the-Record Press Gaggle by White\_House National Security Communications\
  \ Advisor John\_Kirby"
---
 
11:36 A.M. EDT

MODERATOR:  Looks like most folks are on.  Kirby has a few words at the
top, and then we’ll take as many questions as we can in the next few
minutes.  Thanks, everyone.

MR. KIRBY:  Hey, everybody.  Just a quick overview on the latest in the
Middle East. 

First, yesterday we saw more than 300 trucks enter Gaza.  That’s more
trucks than any single day since the war began.  And that’s progress. 
But obviously, we need to see this number increase, and we need to see
it sustained, to really address the dire humanitarian situation there in
Gaza.

Also over the weekend, Ambassador Lew and David Satterfield had
productive discussions with Minister of Defense Gallant, with the IDF,
and with COGAT officials on the steps that the Israeli government has
taken to implement the measures that the President discussed with Prime
Minister Netanyahu in their call last week.  That includes to increase
the flow of humanitarian assistance, sharpen up the deconfliction
process, and again, to reduce the risk and raise the confidence level of
humanitarian workers.

We certainly welcome all these steps.  Again, the President requested to
get more aid into Gaza and address civilian harm.  But what we need to
see, as we’ve said before, is that these steps are implemented and then
sustained over time.  That includes major improvements, again, as I
said, to the deconfliction process.  And we’re going to keep pressing
the Israelis on exactly that. 

Second, just to provide an update on our review of the IDF independent
investigation of the killing of World Central Kitchen workers in Gaza,
we continue to review the conclusions of that investigation that was
released by the IDF.  I know everybody is very curious about when we’re
going to be done with that, what we’re going to say about it.  We’re
still working our way through it.  I don’t have an update for you today.

Third, as has been publicly reported, Director Burns was in Cairo over
the weekend as part of the hostage negotiations.  I don’t have a
specific update to provide you today, but the administration is doing
everything possible to broker a deal that secures the release of all the
hostages and leads to an immediate ceasefire.  And there’s simply no
higher priority.

Where we are now is that a proposal has been presented to Hamas, and
we’re waiting on Hamas’s response.  As you all know from tracking this
before, a response from Hamas to any particular proposal, one way or
another, can often take a matter of days just because of the nature of
communications with them and with Mr. Sinwar.  So that’s the best I have
for an update for you.  I don’t have more detail. 

I’m not going to — as much as I know everybody is interested, I’m not
going to get into what the specifics of that proposal is or what it
looks like or what was negotiated in Cairo.  That would be one of the
surest ways to torpedo this, and I’m not going to do that. 

I do want to add on the hostage front, though, that Jake will be meeting
with family members of the U.S. citizens that are being held hostage. 
And he’ll be meeting them tonight, later this afternoon, here at the
White House.

Now, just on the state visit: As you all know, the President and First
Lady are prepared to welcome Prime Minister Kishida and Mrs. Kishida of
Japan to the White House for an official visit.  That will include a
state dinner.  This visit will be a celebration of our bilateral
relationship as it evolves into a global partnership that is a force for
peace and prosperity; also a recognition of the significance of our
alliance.  It builds on the immense progress between our two nations to
help create a safer and more secure Indo-Pacific. 

You’ll be hearing more from us soon, obviously, on the wide range of
deliverables that will be announced by the leaders on Wednesday.  I’m
not going to get ahead of that.  But I do want to highlight that, on
Thursday, President Biden will welcome President Marcos of the
Philippines to the White House for his second bilateral meeting here at
the White House and also a chance to host the first-ever trilateral
leaders’ summit between the United States, Japan, and the Philippines. 
And again, we’ll have much more to say about that as we get closer to
Thursday.

The United States, Japan, and the Philippines are three closely aligned
maritime democracies with increasingly convergent strategic objectives,
interests, and, frankly, concerns in areas like the South China Sea.

The leaders are expected to announce new initiatives across a range of
important issues during this historic trilateral meeting.  It’s the
first ever at the leader level, and so we’re going to look to find ways
to continue to deepen the collaboration with our closest partners,
again, to ensure a free, open, prosperous, secure Indo-Pacific. 

And with that, I’m happy to take some questions.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our first question will go to Aamer with the AP.

Q    Hey, thanks, John.  Thanks, Sam.  Any updates on scheduling of the
Rafah meetings in Washington?

And then, second, will the President or anyone at the White House be
meeting with Mr. Lapid while he’s in town this week?  I believe he is
meeting today at the State Department. 

And I know you don’t want to talk about specifics on the Cairo talks,
but generally speaking, is there any reason to be more optimistic that a
hostage deal can come through soon, coming out of the talks this
weekend?  Thank you, John.

MR. KIRBY:  Aamer, can you ask me your first question again?  I’m sorry,
I was trying to write fast and I —

Q    Sorry.  On the Rafah meetings that were expected for Washington —

MR. KIRBY:  Oh, yeah.

Q    — is there any updates on timing on that?

MR. KIRBY:   Okay, thanks.  So, on Rafah, still no date certain. 
Nothing set for the calendar.  We were hoping to be able to do it this
week, but I’m not sure that it’s going to actually happen this week.  I
think folks are really sort of circling around sometime next week.  But
stay tuned, obviously when we know something.  But I’m not expecting one
this week, but we’re still working the calendar items.

On Lapid, look, since the war started, Jake has met with Ron Dermer,
Minister Gallant, Benny Gantz, Mr. Bennett, obviously and — and the
Speaker of the Knesset.  And yes, he will be meeting with Mr. Lapid.  So
he’s always made it a priority to meet with senior Israeli officials
when they’re in town; Mr. Lapid is no exception.  And Jake will be
having a discussion with him.

On the hostage deal, I really can’t say, honestly, Aamer, as — I went,
really, as far as I could go in my topper.  There was a serious round of
discussions and negotiations over the weekend.  Mr. Burns participated
in that and represented us in those talks.  And at the end of the
weekend, a proposal was submitted to Hamas, and now it’s going to be up
to Hamas to come through. 

So what the chances are of that, I wouldn’t want to handicap it, except
to say that — and I think it should be plainly obvious just by the
amount of shuttle diplomacy that we’re doing and our counterparts are
doing — we’re taking this very, very seriously.  And we really want to
do — come to closure on a hostage deal as soon as possible.  Because
again, with that hostage deal comes a ceasefire of some weeks’ duration,
hopefully around six weeks, which could do a lot to ease the burden on
the Gazan people and to help us improve that humanitarian assistance.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Justin with
Bloomberg.

Q    Hey, guys.  Thanks for doing this.  Two quick ones.  The first was:
I was wondering if you could just kind of give a general reaction to the
Israeli statements over the weekend that were positive on ceasefire
negotiations and possibly pulling some troops out of Gaza.  You know,
are you encouraged by those?  Are you still kind of wait and see?  Just
whatever you have on that. 

And then, I know you said you didn’t have an update on the talks
themselves, but I was wondering if you had a response to the — if you
could share if there was a response to the letters the President sent to
the leaders of Egypt and Qatar on the hostage talks.  And if there was
response, anything you could share there.

MR. KIRBY:  So as we’ve said before, the announcements and the
statements coming out of the Israeli government over the last two, three
days are welcomed.  And we are, as I said in my opening statement,
beginning to see them move on some of the very specific things, the
concrete steps that the President asked them to do.

So, again, these are welcome steps.  These are welcome announcements. 
These are welcome statements.  But really, what it comes down to is
sustainability and a commitment to meet these — commitment to follow
through on these steps over time.

I don’t have a response to speak to in terms of the President’s
communications with the Emir of Qatar and with President Sisi of Egypt. 
Those letters were sent to convey the President’s strong view that we
want them to urge Hamas to commit to this hostage deal and to abide by
those commitments.  And as I said, a proposal was offered, and we’re
going to wait and see what Hamas’s response is. 

And I honestly think that anything more that I would say — even though
you’re not really asking about the hostage negotiations; you’re asking
about the letters — anything more I would say at this point, you know,
could potentially put that response in some kind of jeopardy.  And I
just don’t want to do that, not when so many lives are hanging in the
balance.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Andrea Mitchell
with NBC.

Q    Hi, thank you.  Question about Khan Younis.  How are you
interpreting it?  Have you sought any clarification about the
repositioning of those troops, the withdrawal, as to whether it’s
preparatory to something else, or is it a routine reservist, you know,
withdrawal?  Or the rest, are they going back to their civilian jobs? 
Can you give us any clarification about the military moves this weekend
that were ordered?

MR. KIRBY:  Andrea, I’m really not going to do that.  I mean, that’s
really for the Israeli Defense Force to speak to.  It’s their troops,
their units, their movements.  And the last thing I’m going to do is try
to talk for another military.  All I can —

Q    But have we sought any clarification from them as to what they’re
up to? 

MR. KIRBY:  All I can say is —

Q    Because that’s been one of the issues on the table.

MR. KIRBY:  All I can tell you, Andrea, is that they’ve made it clear
that these troops have been on the ground for four months consecutive,
fighting, and they needed to be refit and get some rest.  So that’s our
best understanding of what they’re doing. 

I don’t have any internal communications we might have had with them
about this.  I will just add that we have consistently made clear that
we don’t support a major ground operation in Rafah.  I would also add
that we don’t see any signs that such a major ground operation is
imminent or that these troops are being repositioned for that kind of a
ground operation. 

The last thing I would add is that we’re still looking to have a
conversation with the Israelis about Rafah here in coming days,
hopefully sometime next week.  And the Israelis have assured us that
there will be no operations in and around Rafah until we have had a
chance to talk to them at greater length about the viable options and
alternatives to a major ground operation.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Andrea Shalal with
Reuters.  Andrea, you should be able to unmute yourself.  Okay, we see
you unmuted yourself, but we cannot hear you.

Q    Okay, can you hear me now?

MODERATOR:  We can.  Yep. 

Q    Okay, thanks so much.  Thanks for taking my question. 

John, I’m just wondering about the aid — you know, flow of aid into Gaza
and what you’re seeing there.  And then, you know, like, how many trucks
do you think are possible per day?  Three hundred was a lot compared to
what we’d seen earlier, but is still not — you know, not sufficient.  So
what are you looking for there?

And then, on the investigation into the World Central Kitchen thing, can
you give us any more details in terms of what you see there?  And I know
that this has been asked before, but do you — you know, is there
thinking about whether that did, in fact, amount to a war crime? 
Thanks.

MR. KIRBY:  Look, on the trucks, what we’ve said and what we
communicated to the Israelis is we’d like to see the flow

in the very, very near future get up to between 3- to 350 per day.  And
today, as I said, we saw more than 300.  So that’s a good start but
still not up to the upper range of that and — of the 350.  And, again,
what matters is how it can be sustained over time.

I have nothing for you on the investigation.  As I said, we’re still
working our way through it.  I just don’t have any updates for you on
that. 

And as I’ve said before, the State Department continues, as always,
through their ongoing processes, to review operations by militaries that
receive, you know, U.S. security assistance.  It’s an evolving thing
that they watch it, they examine facts as they develop.  They have not
made any determinations at this time with respect to war crimes.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  We’re going to try to speed through three more
questions before we have to jump.

Our next question will go to Alex Marquardt with CNN.

Q    Thank you, guys.  Thanks for doing this.  John, in terms of what a
potential Iranian retaliation could look like for the consulate strike
last week, I know you guys have — I was wondering whether you guys could
say a little bit more about what you may be tracking in terms of
specific Iranian plans.  Do you have an expectation of whether targets
could be civilian or military, U.S. or Israeli; whether Iran would
retaliate themselves or have this done through proxies?  Thanks.

MR. KIRBY:  Alex, I’m going to be real careful here, because you’re
talking about some intelligence assessments.  And I’m just not going to
get into that. 

I will just tell you that, number one, we know that Iran has made very
public threats against Israel itself.  And one of the things that the
President said in his call with Prime Minister Netanyahu was that the
Israeli government could count on the United States’ support for any
self-defense needs against threats directly by Iran to Israel — again,
threats that Iran has made public. 

Number two, our own people — not just our troops, but our diplomatic
personnel, as well, in Iraq and Syria — are under constant threat.  We
take that seriously, and we take the appropriate force protection
measures we need to as the threat changes to make sure that they can
protect themselves.  And that has not changed; that will not change. 
We’re continuing to do that. 

But we take the threat to our own people and our own facilities
seriously.  And we know that those groups, many of the groups that
conduct those kinds of attacks, are supported, funded, resourced by the
IRGC. 

So I think I’ll just leave it at that.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Robin Wright with
the New Yorker.

Q    Thanks, John.  A related question.  Has the United States received
any message, directly or indirectly, that Iran might refrain from a
military response for the attack on its facility in Damascus if the U.S.
brokers a ceasefire?  In other words, is there any kind of understanding
or sub-deal, deal parallel to the negotiations, on a ceasefire in Gaza?

And also, as related to Alex’s question, is the U.S. still seeing signs
of Iran positioning to respond in any way?  And if so, where?  I know
it’s related, but is there any detail you can provide, insight?

MR. KIRBY:  I’m sorry, Robin, the second part of the question was what? 

Q    Well, related to Alex’s question.  And are you still seeing signs,
as U.S. officials said on Friday, that Iran is positioning for a
response, both missiles and drones?

MR. KIRBY:  Oh.  Oh, I gotcha.  I gotcha.  I thought that was — I guess
I should be more clear.  I thought it was kind of implied in my answer
to Alex that, of course, we’re still considering this an active threat.

And look, I don’t really have a comment to make on the report that Iran
claims they would refrain from responding if there was a ceasefire. 
Quite frankly, if Iran desires a ceasefire in Gaza, then it should pull
out all the stops to do what they can to press Hamas to accept the deal
that’s on the table, to accept the proposal that was worked up this
weekend, if that’s what they really want.  We want a ceasefire too. 
They can lean on Hamas.  That would be the best outcome. 

And look, we want a ceasefire, again, that would release women, the
wounded, sick, the elderly.  That’s really the focus.  But if Iran is
serious about a ceasefire, they’ll use the influence they have with
Hamas to press for a positive response to that proposal. 

Q    But has the U.S. received any message, directly or indirectly, to
that effect?

MR. KIRBY:  I don’t have anything to offer on that.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question, and unfortunately our last,
will go to Nadia.  Nadia, you should be able to unmute yourself. 

Q    Hi.  Can you hear me now?

MODERATOR:  We sure can. 

Q    Oh, thank you, Sam.  Hi, John.  You said that, today, for the first
time since October 7th, that 350 trucks of aid are entering Gaza.  I’m
just wondering why it took that long.  And why — what were the major
obstacles that prevented this vital aid to come to Gaza, especially for
(inaudible)?  Is it the phone call from the President?  Is it a change
of policy on the U.S. that made this happening?

MODERATOR:  Nadia, we can’t really understand you.  Are you on
speakerphone?

MR. KIRBY:  Nadia, I could not pick up most of your question.

MODERATOR:  Now you’re breaking up.  So we’re going to move on and try
get one more question.

We’ll go to Hiba.  Hiba, you should be able to unmute yourself. 

Q    Yes, Sam.  Thank you.  Thanks, John.  I want to follow up on the
question regarding the Iranian consulate and the message that — reports
on the message that the Iranian conveyed to the U.S. that they will go —
they will refrain from hitting in case there’s a ceasefire.  Is it fair
to say, John, that this report is not accurate?  Are you trying to tell
us that? 

And my second question: On the strike itself against the Iranian
consulate, some (inaudible) are saying it was unwise by the Israeli. 
What’s your position?  We never understand what the administration
position on the strike on the Iranian consulate in Damascus. 

MR. KIRBY:  I don’t have anything more to say about the strike in
Damascus, except that we weren’t involved in any way whatsoever.  And I
need to just leave it at that.

And as I said to Robin’s question on this, I don’t have anything further
to add on Iranian claims that they’re making this sort of promise.  You
got to take pretty much everything that the Iranians say with a huge
grain of salt. 

I would just add that if they’re serious about wanting a ceasefire, then
they should put the pressure on Hamas to accept the proposal that’s on
the table.  That’s it. 

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  And thank you, everyone, for joining us.  Sorry
this was a quick one.  But as always, reach out to the NSC distro if we
weren’t able to get to you.  Thanks.

 11:58 A.M. EDT

  
 
