---
date: '2024-04-14'
modified_time: 2024-04-16 19:58:11-04:00
published_time: 2024-04-14 19:30:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/04/14/background-press-call-by-senior-administration-officials-on-irans-attacks-against-the-state-of-israel/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Background Press Call by Senior Administration Officials on Iran\u2019s Attacks\
  \ Against the State of\_Israel"
---
 
National Security Council

Via Teleconference

(April 14, 2024)

MODERATOR:  Thank you so much.  Good afternoon, everyone.  Sorry for the
delayed start, and thanks for joining the call. 

As a reminder, this call is on background and it’s embargoed until the
completion of the call.

For your awareness, not for your reporting, on the call today we have
\[senior administration official\].  He will be a “senior administration
official” on the call.  We have \[senior Defense official\], who will be
our “senior Defense official.”  And \[senior military official\], who
will be our “senior military official.” 

Our speakers will have a few words at the top, and we’ll turn it over to
Q&A. 

With that, \[senior administration official\], I’ll turn it over to you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks.  So, I’m going to go through
just kind of an opening and talk a little bit about not only what
happened last night, but also really over the last 10 days of
preparation and try to give a little bit of color, then turn it over to
my DOD colleagues.  Then, I’m happy to take some Q&A. 

So, last night, as you know, Iran conducted an unprecedented attack on
the state of Israel with over 300 munitions, including, remarkably, over
100 ballistic missiles, as well as land-attack cruise missiles and
unmanned aerial vehicles. 

President Biden, probably about 10 days ago now, had instructed all of
us — the United States to defend Israel to the maximum extent possible
and defeat the attack, ensuring all authorities were in place, all
assets were in place.  And now that the attack has concluded, that’s
exactly what we did as a country.  

With the support of a number of partners, including the UK and France,
the United States enabled Israel to spectacularly defeat this
unprecedented attack. 

Despite launching over 300 munitions from Iran and other points in the
region, Israel and a coalition of partners were able to defeat 99
percent of these munitions.  There’s virtually no infrastructure damage
to Israel at all. 

And just for context, President Biden is the first American president to
directly defend Israel.  He followed and directed, really, every detail
of this response, starting nearly two weeks ago as we began to receive
word and indications that Iran was preparing for a large-scale attack. 

Iran’s intent clearly was to cause significant damage and deaths in
Israel.  We believe this requires an unequivocal condemnation from the
international community.  The President this morning convened the G7,
and they have forcefully condemned the attack.  I think that statement
is now out. 

And all the leaders on that call were totally united in the condemnation
of Iran and the need to hold Iran to account for this unprecedented and
defeated assault, and also the support for the defense of Israel was
very much unanimously stated by all the leaders on that call, which I
was on here earlier this morning. 

We’ve been mindful in the preparations that led to last night that if
successful, this attack could have caused an uncontrollable escalation
of broad regional conflict — something we have worked day and night to
avoid since October 7th, over the past six months. 

I mentioned in the last 10 days of preparations.  And just to provide
some examples: In addition to the forced posture adjustments, which we
can discuss, administration officials have been in constant, ongoing,
continuous contact with Israelis, with other partners in the region, as
well as Iran with a series of direct communications through the Swiss
channel and other relevant players in anticipation of the events that
transpired last night.  

Secretary Austin — and I think my colleague can talk more about this —
had regular consultations, obviously, with his Israeli counterparts —
other counterparts throughout the region; Secretary Blinken,
counterparts throughout the region, as well as Turkey and China; the
chairman with his Israeli counterpart and others; Jake Sullivan, myself
with Israelis up and down the system almost constantly.

Even last night, just as the attack was underway before we went to join
the President, Ambassador Mike Herzog and the Israeli Defense Attaché
visited me here at the White House to kind of walk through where we
were, even as the attack was underway.

Constant engagements with G7, Quad, Gulf counterparts and, again,
Chinese, Indians, Iraqis.  This was an ongoing effort over the last 10
days. 

And, of course, General Kurilla, our CENTCOM commander, was in the
region, able to provide real-time updates and, of course, in very close
coordination with the Israelis and all of our other partners.  

So, all along, President Biden was kept updated by his national security
team — multiple times a day, really, over the last 10 days or so —
behind the scenes of other events.

For example, preparations for what we believe was coming were continuous
and ongoing.  Just one example: On the margins of the Japanese Prime
Minister’s visit, Secretary Austin and Jake briefed the President on the
possibility for additional military deployments, including an additional
missile destroyer, which the President immediately authorized. 

Yesterday, of course, the President returned from Delaware and then
gathered with his team throughout the evening in the Situation Room as
events unfolded in real time.  So, he was in the Situation Room getting
real-time updates as this unfolded, including at the time of missile
launches. 

And just to kind of set the scene, I mean, at one point, we knew there
were over 100 ballistic missiles in the sky — a very short period of
travel time to Israel — a period of, really, minutes.  And the results
of the defenses, of course, were unclear until all was said and done. 

As the results of the defenses came in, which is when we knew the
preparations and planning had succeeded, there was a bit of — a bit of
relief.  But you can imagine those tense moments. 

And at nine — nine o’clock p.m., the President spoke with Prime Minister
Netanyahu.  And, again, just to set this scene, he, of course — the
Prime Minister is with his — his War Cabinet in the war room as this was
also unfolding in real time for them.  So, you know, the context for
that call — it was shortly after we believed the attack was largely
defeated.  The President reaffirmed our unwavering support for Israel’s
defense. 

But, again, the context for the call, I think, keep in mind, both
leaders had just gone through the 10 days of preparations and then the
results, which were just becoming to be known, and we were feeling
pretty good about where we were. 

But he told — the President told the Prime Minister that Israel really
came out far ahead in this exchange.  Israel took out the IRGC’s — the
Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps’ leadership in the Levant.  Iran tried
to respond, and Israel had clearly demonstrated its military
superiority, defeating this attack, particularly in coordination with —
with partners — first and foremost, the United States and others. 

This morning, we met the President here early in the Situation Room —
Jake Sullivan, Secretary Blinken, Jon Finer, myself, and others — again,
to review the results of the attack.  The President spoke with the G7
leaders, as I mentioned, followed by a call with King Abdullah. 

The President and King Abdullah obviously go back many, many years, and
the President values his wisdom and counsel.  And they talked about kind
of broader regional situation and a number of broader issues.  

The President then spoke with \[redacted\], the commander of the 494th
Fighter Squadron, a unit based in the UK, and \[redacted\], commander of
the 335th Fighter Squadron unit from Seymour Johnson Air Force Base in
North Carolina.  These two squadrons had dozens of aerial takedowns last
night, saving lives, reducing the risk of a broad regional conflict. 

The President expressed his thanks as their Commander-in-Chief for,
really, their extraordinary airmanship and skill that was displayed
throughout this multi-hour engagement over the course of last night. 

As for Iran, the President has been cleared — clear that their actions
end here, and the same applies to Iran’s proxies.  If they take action
against us, we are fully prepared to defend our people, our interests,
and to hold Iran accountable, as we have shown a number of times over
the last six months of this crisis.  

And just to conclude, I think the events of the last 10 days have
demonstrated that while we may have some disagreements, the United
States of America stands with Israel, and there’s no question that we
will come to their defense when they are attacked.  Last night
demonstrated that fact.  And when the President — what the President
calls an ironclad commitment for the United States is just that.  And I
think we showed that last night in real time in a truly unprecedented
manner. 

So, with that, I think I will end the opening, turn it over to my DOD
colleagues.  Then I’m happy to take questions.  

SENIOR DEFENSE OFFICIAL:  Good afternoon.  This is \[senior Defense
official\] as the senior defense official. 

So, just to add a couple of notes to \[senior administration
official\]’s opening: Over the last 48 hours, Secretary Austin has been
receiving regular updates from his senior commanders and staff
concerning Iran’s attack against Israel.  Throughout the weekend, the
Secretary was in close communication with Defense Minister Yoav Gallant
of Israel.  In addition, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff has
been in touch with the IDF Chief of Staff, General Halevi.  And, of
course, CENTCOM Commander, General Kurilla, is in the region and has
been in continued contact with his Israeli counterparts as well. 

I think \[senior administration official\] cited the unprecedented
nature of this attack against Israel.  Over 300 munitions, including
over 100 ballistic missiles, as well as cruise missiles and UAVs.  These
attacks were launched from locations in Iran, Iraq, Syria, and Yemen
against Israeli territory.  And it was the first-ever direct attack on
Israel from Iran — from Iranian soil. 

So, the Secretary, the Chairman, and other senior leaders from the
Department joined the National Security Council from the White House in
— in monitoring events in real time, as — as \[senior administration
official\] described. 

Following the end of the attack, the Secretary again spoke with Minister
Gallant and reinforced the U.S. ironclad commitment to Israel’s defense.

In coordination with the Israeli government, U.S. forces in the Middle
East successfully intercepted many of these missiles and UAVs targeting
Israel.  My colleague will detail some of the — the numbers. 

We are incredibly grateful here in the Department of Defense for the
professionalism and skill of the brave U.S. troops who took part in
these actions and who continue to stand guard to prevent further
conflict or escalation.  

Iran’s attack is completely unacceptable and reckless and risks dragging
the region into broader conflict.  These attacks also violated the
airspace of neighboring Arab countries. 

So, let me be clear: Iran intended to cause significant damage in
Israel, and they failed in their mission to do so, which is a testament
to Israel’s military superiority and our collective defense. 

It’s undoubtedly a team effort, and with the support of our partners, we
— together with the Israelis — were able to defeat this egregious
attack.  And that was also made possible by decades’ worth of
cooperation and investment in defense technologies. 

Our goal remains to de-escalate immediately and halt any further
attacks.  We do not seek conflict with Iran, but we will not hesitate to
act to protect our forces and support the defense of Israel.  And the
President and the Secretary have been very clear that our support for
Israel’s defense is ironclad and our forces remain postured to provide
further support for Israel’s defense and to protect U.S. troops in the
region.  

I’ll now turn it over to the joint staff for further operational
updates. 

SENIOR MILITARY OFFICIAL:  Hey, good afternoon, and thanks for joining
this call.  This is \[senior military official\]. 

As mentioned earlier, we currently assess Iran launched more than 300
air threats to include more than 100 medium-range ballistic missiles,
more than 30 land-attack cruise missiles, and more than 150 one-way
attack drones towards Israel. 

Also, as mentioned earlier, we currently assess there is no significant
damage within Israel itself.

At the direction of the President and the Secretary of Defense, U.S.
forces assigned to U.S. Central Command and U.S. European Command
actively engaged a number of the threats. 

The USS Arleigh Burke and USS Carney, operating in the eastern
Mediterranean Sea, engaged and destroyed between four and six Iranian
ballistic missiles during the attack.  U.S. alert aircraft in the region
shot down more than 70 Iranian one-way UAVs headed toward Israel. 

A U.S. Army Patriot missile battery shot down one ballistic missile in
the vicinity of Erbil, Iraq, assessed to be en route to Israel.  It is
assessed that that missile was not targeting U.S. or coalition forces. 

There were no U.S. casualties or damage, and our forces remain postured
to provide additional defensive support to protect U.S. forces in the
region. 

And I’ll be happy to take your questions.  

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  \[Operator\], if you could remind folks on how
to queue up for questions, we’ll take your questions now. 

\[Operator provides instructions.\]

OPERATOR:  First person in our queue is Zeke Miller from the AP. 
Please, go ahead.  

Q    Good afternoon.  Thank you for doing the call.  I was hoping you
could give us a sense of what you were expecting next from the
Israelis?  What has been the U.S. messaging to the Israelis about taking
their own retaliation against Iran? 

And then in terms of the G7, was there any agreement on any sort of
specific sanctions or other consequences that the international
community, that the U.S. wants to emplace on Iran in the days ahead? 

And any additional messaging since this attack between the U.S. and
Tehran, either through the Swiss channel or any — any others?  What
would the nature of that messaging be?  Thank you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Let me try to — try to break those
down.  On the G7, there was a discussion — a fairly detailed — a fairly
detailed and, I think, constructive discussion about Iran.  And I don’t
want to speak for, obviously, the other capitals, but a discussion of
some of those countries designate — designating the IRGC as a terrorist
group — things like that — but also a coordinated effort on some
sanctions measures that we had been discussing.  Some of the things that
had hit some hurdles that I think we’re going to look to — look to move
forward on, but I don’t want to get ahead of that process. 

It was discussed in some detail, and I think we have a decent way
forward.  And I think the statement that the — I believe, the Italians
have — have it out — speaks to some of that.  But so, that’ll be
coming. 

You know, on the Israelis, look, we are committed to defending Israel. 
We would not be a part of any — of any response they do.  That’s very
consistent policy. 

The discussion between the leaders last night, again, was in the context
of just having come through this incredibly intense period of hours and,
I thought, a pretty good discussion about kind of where you go from here
and different — kind of calculating appropriately. 

But I think John Kirby spoke to this as well today, and I think I’ll
leave it at that. 

Our aim is to de-escalate regional tensions.  We do not want a broader
regional conflict, but our focus has been to contain this crisis to
Gaza.  That’s been a focus since October 7th.  That remains the focus. 

And part of our efforts, of course, in helping Israel — in the defense
of Israel is just about that.  Helping to defend Israel — that is
something that remains — I know it’s overstated, but it’s actually true
— ironclad.  I mean, that is a true statement.  And I think what you —
what you saw last night is what that means in practice.  We were ready
for that.  We’re prepared.  And we’ll do it again if we have to. 

The Iranians did send us a message, but I don’t want to characterize it
one way or the other.  We have decent ways to communicate with them, but
I think we are speaking very publicly and openly about what happened
last night and that there needs to be some consequences here.  And I
think that was a — that was a good subject of discussion with our G7
counterparts.

OPERATOR:  Our next question is Jennifer Jacobs from Bloomberg.

Q    Hey.  Thanks, everybody.  Two things.  Hello, this is J.J.,
Jennifer Jacobs, from Bloomberg News.  On the 100 ballistic missiles
that were in the air at the same time, if you guys could offer any more
details on that — on how you went about countering that, just any inside
details would be appreciated. 

And then also, as you push for de-escalation, what options is the U.S.
steering Israel towards?  Can you say like, you know, are you making,
you know, suggestions for alternative routes for them?  Thanks very
much.

SENIOR MILITARY OFFICIAL:  This is senior military official.  With
regard to the ballistic missile attack, it was a substantial number — as
pointed out, more than 100 at one single time.  It was a, you know,
extremely phenomenal display of the defensive capability of Israel in
this regime. 

They were of course supported by U.S. forces, in particular our two
destroyers in the eastern Mediterranean.  The targeting and ultimate
shots that are taken are deconflicted between the U.S. and Israel in
these sorts of engagements, but the overwhelming majority of those
intercepts of ballistic missiles was by Israeli systems.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, just on Israel, Jennifer, I don’t
think I’m going to go much deeper than I’ve — than I’ve said.  I mean,
look, we — we were — when the Israelis were here, we had a meeting on
the Rafah process that we kicked off about two weeks ago, and it was
shortly after — shortly before that meeting began that we actually had a
VTC with the Israelis on their side, but we had the Israeli Ambassador
here and their Defense Attaché here in the White House. 

When we learned of their — of their strike in Damascus against the IRGC
Levant leadership corps — and, of course, that leadership corps is
focused on organizing regular and ongoing attacks against Israel.  But
we — Jon Finer, myself, and Jake — were pulled aside to be informed
specifically about details of that strike.  We were not a part of that
strike, obviously. 

But we didn’t — we knew that that would have repercussions, and that
kind of has played out here over the last — over the last two weeks. 

I think Israel has made clear to us they’re not looking for a
significant escalation with Iran.  That’s not what they’re looking for. 
They’re looking to protect themselves and defend themselves.  And so,
that’s an ongoing discussion we’re having with the Israelis, but I don’t
want to talk about specific pathways or anything else. 

I just think the President was very clear that we’re going to help
defend Israel.  And he made very clear to the Prime Minister last night
that we do have to think carefully and strategically about, you know,
the risks of escalation.  And that’s something I think has been an
ongoing conversation here with the Israeli side and others even
throughout the — throughout today.

OPERATOR:  We have Andrea Mitchell from NBC News.

Q    Hi.  \[Senior administration official\], this is Andrea Mitchell
from NBC News.  \[Senior administration official\] and \[senior Defense
official\] and \[senior military official\] —

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Hey, Andrea.  How are you?

Q    Hi.  First of all, could you tell us whether you think that they
decided not to strike back, as has been reported by the New York Times,
after the President’s call?  Do you think that there was a cause and
effect? 

And participating in the call as you did, did you think — from hearing
the call, did you — did you think after that call that they were going
to strike back?  If you — even if it weren’t — if it wasn’t cause and
effect, but did you think that they made that decision partly influenced
by the President’s call?

And how much of a risk do you think it would be if they do take such
steps now, given some of the regional partners with whom you’ve dealt
and obviously had some quiet cooperation?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  I think, Andrea — I mean, I have not
seen that report.  Again, Israel here will make its — make its own
decisions.  But we made our views known.  And I think the President —
again, this call came at a moment in which we had just gone through this
incredibly intense period of time.  And from the Israeli side, I mean,
they were living through the same thing in real time, knowing that there
are 100 ballistic missiles on their way to Israel. 

So, it’s a — it’s a period of kind of heightened emotion.  And I think
the President, you know, had a discussion about trying to slow things
down, think through things; given what we just went through, let’s
assess kind of where we are. 

And in the light of day, as the sun came up this morning in Israel — and
Jack Lew actually visited one of the Arrow counter- — counter-missile
batteries with Israel’s Minister of Defense to kind of review the
aftermath.  And I think the kind of spectacular success — I don’t use
that word lightly — really — really became known in the light of day.  I
mean, when you could really see that there was almost no damage at all,
took down almost all of these things, it’s extraordinary. 

And I think when a call was — took place last night, when the President
was in the Situation Room and we had been there for a period of hours,
we knew we had largely defeated the attack, but the full extent of the —
of how successful it was was not fully known.  And I think it was a very
useful call just to kind of talk through where we are and next steps. 
And, you know, nobody wants to run up the escalation ladder here. 

So, on the one hand, this is an unprecedented Iranian attack, as we’ve
said a number of times.  It was also an extraordinary feat of military
prowess and cooperation with partners in defeating it.  And I think
Israel has to think through carefully what it does next, but as I said
in my opening, I think, you know, they’ve kind of gotten the best of it
here.  That’s very much our — our view.

SENIOR DEFENSE OFFICIAL:  This is the senior defense official.  I’ll
just add one thought to that.  You know, as I mentioned in my opening,
the success that was achieved was, in part, the product of years of
investment and cooperation in developing these missile defense
technologies, including the ones that Ambassador Lew visited. 

And one of the great advantages of these technologies is not only, of
course, the lives they save and the damage they prevent in defeating
attacks, but in the flexibility they give leaders in how to respond to
these situations. 

And so, that’s — that’s been borne out by the success of — of their
missile defenses and ours that — that were additive.  And, of course,
all the work that all the participants in the defense of Israel did last
night is that it creates space and flexibility for decisions on next
steps.

OPERATOR:  Our next question is from Jeff Mason from Reuters.

Q    Hi.  Thanks very much.  Can you gentlemen confirm that

Iran gave a 72-hour heads-up to other countries in the region about its
attack?  And did it do the same to the United States through the
conversations that you referenced with regard to Switzerland? 

And do you interpret that heads-up as a — as a sign that they wanted —
that they were not looking for escalatory action or that they were —
well, I guess my question is: How would you interpret that heads-up? 

And, lastly, if I can add one more, can you confirm that the President
told Prime Minister Netanyahu that the United States would not
participate in a counteroffensive?  Thank you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  On Iran, no, that is absolutely not
true.  We — they did not give a notification, nor did they give any
sense of, you know, “These will be the targets, so evacuate them.”  They
were clearly intending to destroy and to cause casualties.  That was
their intent.

And the fact that they didn’t, I think they might want to now say that,
“Well, we didn’t mean to.”  But you launch 100 mis- — 100 ballistic
missiles, you know, targeting certain locations, that was clearly their
— their intent.  They just didn’t succeed.  And so, no, there was no
such forewarning or anything like that. 

They were very clear that so- — you know, they would be responding and
that was, you know, clearly going to happen.  The level, scope of it was
something that was discussed throughout the week.  Their Foreign
Minister would say something completely different than others, which is
not an uncommon practice with them. 

But no, there was no kind of, like, warning as a way to kind of fire
missiles but somehow not hurt anybody.  That was not — that was not
their intent. 

Sorry, your second question?

Q    The second ques- —

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah.

Q    The second question was about the call and whether President Biden
said to Prime Minister Netanyahu that the U.S. would not participate in
a counteroffensive. 

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Oh, yeah.  I think that’s — again,
(inaudible) going back to the Damascus strike, for example, we had
nothing to do with that.  You know, we — we believe Israel has freedom
of action to protect itself and defend itself in Syria or elsewhere. 
That’s a common — that’s a longstanding policy, and that remains.  But,
no, we would not envision ourselves participating in such a thing.

OPERATOR:  Our next question is from Peter Baker with The New York
Times.

Q    Oh, hi, guys.  Just to follow up on Jeff’s question.  The — putting
aside the idea of a 72-hour notice, they certainly telegraphed publicly
for more than a week that they were going to do this.  Everybody knew
they were going to do this.  You all had those 10 days to get forces in
the region.  I mean, does that not tell us anything? 

And in terms of the scope of what they did fire — more than 300 missiles
and drones — is that on the high end, low end of what you expected? 
What was your anticipation?  How do you — how do you — what context do
you see that — that?  And do you think they still have plenty of
munitions still to go, or what — does this deplete their ability to
continue further attacks?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, Peter, I think it’s fair to say
the scope of this attack is on the high end.  Launching 100 medium-range
ballistic missiles — over 100, that is definitely on the high end, and
makes it harder to defeat — to defeat when you have that many missiles
in the sky. 

And, again, I think it was due to the preparations, everything else.  I
don’t think that the characterization is Iran gave us time to prepare. 
They needed the time to prepare for themselves to do this. 

So, we — we took advantage of the time from the moment we had any sort
of information something could be coming.  We got assets in place.  We
got coordination in place.  And my DOD counterparts can talk more to
this, but a truly extraordinary level of military coordination to be
prepared for this — I mean, unbelievable.

And what General Kurilla did and everything else, in getting our assets
in place and the President making sure we had all the authorities,
everything in place, good to go — you know, my counterpart here in this
call talking multiple times throughout — every day throughout the week,
making sure everything was — was ready.  But until — you know, until it
comes, you never — you never fully know. 

But just to kind of put a period on this: yeah, the high end, in my
view. 

And we used the time wisely to prepare.  And I think — but I would not
characterize it as if Iran gave us the time to prepare.  Their intent
was clearly to be highly, highly destructive.  And that is in their
public rhetoric, and I think it’s borne out by what they tried to do
last night.

OPERATOR:  Our next question is from Yuna Leibzon from Channel 12 News
Israel.  

Q    Thank you.  Yuna Leibzon from Channel 12 News Israel.  So, just
following up on previous questions about the call and the message that
the U.S. will not participate.  What exactly did the President say about
any response from Israel? 

On one hand, we hear that there is an understanding that there’s
supposed to be some sort of response, no escalation.  But what was the
exact term that was used for the U.S. and its support or not support for
an Israeli response to this attack?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, so sorry.  I think — no surprise
— first, I don’t have direct notes or a transcript in front of me, and I
wouldn’t provide the exact terms, in any case, of the call. 

I think — I think I’ve described the call.  I think John spoke to the
call this morning.  And we read out the call last night with the
President’s statement.  So, I think it was very clear. 

I mean, of the — I would also say their last call 10 days or so ago,
which had a number of issues to it — including, obviously, the situation
in Gaza — humanitarian situation — the first issue discussed on the call
was indications of this potential attack.  So, this has been ongoing
communication with the Israelis from — from that level, but also through
— through our systems. 

But last night, as I’ve mentioned, was really coming out of the
immediate aftermath of the attack, kind of assessing where we were and
thinking through carefully about the next steps.  So, I’m not going to
characterize it beyond that.  

OPERATOR:  Our next question is from Gordon Lubold from The Wall Street
Journal.  

Q    Hi there.  I wondered, \[senior administration official\],
particularly, if you could just expand a little bit on how you brought
this coalition together — a little bit of color would be welcome — in
the last 10 days or whatever, as you began to see what — what was
imminent. 

And, also, a little bit more about what General Kurilla’s role was in
Israel the last 48 hours.  What was — what was his message?  How did he
coordinate?  Thanks. 

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  I think anytime you’re talking about a
coalition action, every capital has different legal standards,
authorities.  And to make sure all of that is in place is — takes a, you
know, military diplomatic effort. 

Here, I think we had the French and the — and the Brits were obvi- —
they fly with us in — in this theater all the time and — and were very —
very clearly ready.  But then also bringing in our additional assets and
then ensuring everything was coordinated, that’s really done at a — at a
mil-mil level.  And then kind of, you know, who takes down what and the
organization for the defense was really done at a — at a
military-to-military level. 

From time to time, there’d have to be political engagement in capitals,
but also make sure we had all the accesses we need and everything else
in order to — to defeat what we thought — thought to be a large-scale
attack.  And as I mentioned in response to Peter’s question, this was on
the high end, I think, of what we were — what we were anticipating. 

But I don’t know if my DOD colleagues might have — might have more.

SENIOR DEFENSE OFFICIAL:  Well, this is the senior defense official
here.  Secretary Austin was in, you know, pretty much daily contact with
General Kurilla, as were many of us and others throughout the CENTCOM
system.  And it was really quite impressive to see the — the level of
coordination and trust that that obviously requires between our CENTCOM
colleagues and their Israeli counterparts. 

General Kurilla was able to meet, as well, with Minister Gallant and
other Israeli leaders to keep them informed about his coordination with
their military.  And — but it — it gets down into very, very fine
details of coordination to be able to execute what happened last night,
as \[senior administration official\] sort of alluded to.

SENIOR MILITARY OFFICIAL:  Yeah, senior military official.  General
Kurilla makes, you know, fairly routine visits to the region.  He has
had an increased number of visits, you know, since October the 7th. 

While in Israel, he ensured that we were — we were prepared to
deconflict and coordinate our supporting efforts to the defense of
Israel.  He also discussed with them our pending operations to support
the delivery of humanitarian aid from the sea into Gaza. 

But this was, you know, in light of Iranian rhetoric and to ensure that
we were — we were best postured to support their defense.  

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  I’d just add, Gordon — I mean, it’s a
good question, but to kind of — thinking through this, you know — one
thing, we have a — we have a robust naval coalition, as you know,
dealing with the Houthis.  And that has already provided a lot of, I
think, the touchpoints, patterns of interaction, you need to be quite
effective. 

But, also, I just — I think — I don’t think I’ve mentioned on the call —
I should have — the Houthis did try to engage last night.  But because
we have that so well covered, I think we destroyed a ballistic missile
on a launchpad.  And the other — other stuff they launched obviously did
not make it to the target because we — we just have that area so well
covered.  And that’s with a number of coalition partners.  So, what
we’ve done there, we’ve done elsewhere — just standing mechanisms. 

You know, there’s a — there’s a — between the Quad — with the French,
the UK, and the Germans — I think Jake’s had a number of calls with his
Quad counterparts to kind of coordinating this whole thing, particularly
with the French and the Brits.  And then the — just the regular
touchpoints between these capitals brought it together pretty quickly.  

OPERATOR:  Next in queue is Liz Friden from Fox News.  

Q    Thank you.  Jennifer Griffin here.  I’m just trying to understand. 
You had a hundred ballistic missiles fired at Israel, and you say that
four to six were shot down by naval assets in the eastern Med.  What
shot down those other ballistic missiles, and was it, before it got in —
they got into Israeli airspace? 

And if you could talk a little bit about how many U.S. fighter jets or
aircraft were involved in stopping these drones, et cetera.  

SENIOR MILITARY OFFICIAL:  Yeah, this is senior military official.  The
— the majority of those missiles were engaged by the Arrow system —
Arrow 2 and Arrow 3 — in Israel — Israeli system. 

The intercepts themselves took place not — not only over Israeli
airspace, but over neighboring countries as well.  It was a — it was a
pretty broad engagement zone. 

There was, as you mentioned, between four and six — we’re still
conducting analysis, but between four and six were confirmed by U.S.
destroyers.  And then there was one that was confirmed by a U.S. Patriot
battery as it flew near — in the vicinity of Erbil, Iraq. 

And the number of — as far as the number of aircraft, I — I can’t get
into the — into the specific numbers and, you know, reveal how many
forces we had there.  But it was — it was a number of aircraft, both
land-based and from — from the sea.

OPERATOR:  Our next question is from Alexander Marquardt from CNN.  

Q    Thank you all for doing this.  \[Senior administration official\],
I appreciate you don’t want to get into the specifics of — of the
Iranian messaging, but I’m wondering if you could characterize how
different it is — this is the direct message to the United States — how
different that was in private to what we’ve heard in public — which was
essentially, you know, “We’re done here,” and “The United States, don’t
get involved” — and at what time or what stage in the process that
messaging came in and whether there was a direct U.S. response in
private back to Iran. 

And if I may, could you give us a sense of how you think this is going
to play into Israel’s plans for Rafah and the ongoing ceasefire talks,
which feel like they’re going a bit round and around?  We have today
this latest rejection by Hamas to the latest proposal.  Thanks.  

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks, Alexander.  Yeah.  So, we — we
received a message from the Iranians as this was ongoing, through the
Swiss, basically suggesting that they were finished after this, but it
was still an ongoing attack.  So, that was their — that was their
message to us.  I think they’ve said that publicly as well. 

So, yeah, on — on Rafah, we have a process with the Israelis.  As we’ve
discussed, I think, a number of times, I think, the complexities of
Rafah, given Egypt, given the humanitarian dimension, given the density
of the population there, given what it’s going to take, is extreme- —
extraordinarily complex.  So, we have a process with them we kicked off
about two weeks ago. 

I think, obviously, this situation delayed that a little bit.  But we
look forward to pick- — picking that back up as early as next — this
coming week, as it’s important.  Our expert teams have been — have been
working through it, particularly on the humanitarian side and — so that
we can provide our — our input, which the Israelis have agreed to do. 

They’ve also told us a number of times that anything there would be
conditions-based, particularly with having the humanitarian situation
set.  So, that’s a tall order of business.  And so, that’s something
we’re continuing — continuing to work through. 

But I don’t think there’s a direct — just to answer your question, how
does this — how does one affect the other, I think, if anything, it —
you know, attention has been focused on this — this most immediate
threat.  But we will get back to the situation with the hostages.  We
have to get the hostages out of Gaza. 

It is outrageous that Hamas basically has an offer on the table that is
everything they had asked for.  And I’m not going to confirm one w- —
one way or the other what their response is, but pretty clear that
Sinwar wants to hold hostages, including these young women, when
releasing them and releasing old people and sick and wounded would
result in an immediate ceasefire and all sorts of other things that are
in this deal. 

So, it really is — it kind of speaks to everything you need to know
about Hamas.  I have to think that answers the question.  

OPERATOR:  We have Alex Ward from Politico.  

Q    Yes.  Hi.  I guess just to ask a question very directly: I mean,
does the U.S. not want Israel to respond to Iran at this point?  Should
— should Israel just not do anything and take the defensive success as
the win?  Thanks.  

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  I’m just not going to say that so
definitively.  I think it’s a — it’s a calculation the Israelis have to
make.  This was an unprecedented attack from Iran against Israel. 

At the same time, we think in the overall exchange here — as I said in
my opening, I think that the Israelis came out clearly very much on top
and demonstrated their ability to defend their country in coordination
with us and others — speaks for itself.  And I think a big question is
not only — not only whether but what Israel might choose to do. 

And so, this is a decision — decision for them.  But I’m not going to
answer it that specifically.  And I think the conversation between the
President and the Prime Minister was really kind of thinking through
strategically where we are after having just come through this very
intense period of hours last night.  So, I’m not going to say that so
definitively, no.

OPERATOR:  We have time for one more question.  We have Nadia Charters
from Al Arabiya on the line.  

Q    Thank you.  Nadia Bilbassy-Charters, Al Arabiya.  Do you all expect
a new set of sanctions on Iran?  And, also, Ismail Haniyeh, the leader
of the political wing of Hamas, congratulated the Iranian regime, and
there was reports that Sinwar was holding in the hostage deal, waiting
for the Iranian attack.  So, I know you touched on it a little bit, but
do you believe that this attack will make it harder or easier for Hamas
leaders to negotiate?  Thank you.  

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks, Nadia.  Hamas has been, since
October 7th, trying to ignite a regional war.  That is what they want to
do.  They say it publicly, and we know that’s what they’re trying to
do. 

They have tried to do it through working with the Iranians.  They’ve
tried to do it through Ramadan.  It’s in their public statements of what
they tried to do and hope would — would happen over the course of
Ramadan in Jerusalem.  It did not happen. 

I think they hope this incident would have — do — do the same.  So, that
is what they want and, again, speaks to what they’re trying to do. 

Haniyeh was in Tehran about two weeks ago.  And, yeah, you know, they
work closely together and coordinate.  And this is one reason why Israel
faces very real threats from the IRGC and from the Houthis and from the
proxies that are — you know, have a desire to encircle Israel.  And
we’re going to ensure that they cannot succeed. 

So, what I just said in my opening: Look, we have dif- — we have
differences and disagreements with Israel on a number of things,
including, in particular, on Gaza.  And those are things we’re
continuing to work through. 

But when it comes to the defense of Israel against Iran, as I said in my
opening and as my DOD counterpart said, that commitment truly is
ironclad. 

And I think I’ll end the call with a point that I think we demonstrated
that last night, and we will continue to do so going forward.  

MODERATOR:  Thanks.  Thank you, everyone, for joining.  That’s all the
time we have for today. 

As a reminder, this call was on background, and the embargo is now
lifted. 

On this call today, we had a senior administration official, senior
defense official, and senior military official. 

Thanks, everyone.  Hope you have a good rest of your day.  
