---
date: '2024-04-19'
modified_time: 2024-04-19 22:59:38-04:00
published_time: 2024-04-19 22:59:37-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/04/19/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-57/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine\_Jean-Pierre"
---
 
2:04 P.M. EDT  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Good afternoon, everyone.

Q    Good afternoon. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Sorry I’m delayed.  I was actually listening to — to
your reporting — your live report from your seat.  (Laughter.)

Q    Got any — any suggestions about things that we need to include next
time?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  You know, I have a lot of suggestions.

Q    Yeah.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  But I will keep that to myself.   

Q    Yeah, we’ll chat later. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  We’ll — yeah, we’ll chat later.  Circle back. 
(Laughter.) 

All right, happy Friday, everyone.  Today, President Biden announced
that his administration is taking action to conserve more than 13
million acres in the Western Arctic and to honor the culture, history,
and enduring wisdom of the Alaska Natives who lived on these lands for
generations.

From safeguarding sacred lands near the Grand Canyon to protecting
Alaskan treasures, the Biden-Harris administration is conserving more
than 41 million acres of lands and waters.

This administration will continue to take ambitious action to meet the
urgency of the climate crisis, protect America’s lands and waters, and
fulfil our responsibility to the next generations of Americans.

On a more solemn note, as many of you know, tomorrow marks 25 years
since the tragic shooting at Columbine High School.  Two students killed
twelve of their fellow classmates and one teacher with guns they
obtained from unlicensed dealers and without background checks.

We continue to pray for the families and victims of the Columbine
shooting, as well as communities across the country that are being torn
apart by gun violence.

Since Columbine, there have been hundreds of school shootings, exposing
hundreds of thousands of students to the horrors of gun violence.

As the President has said, this is not normal, and it must end.  
  
That’s why he signed into law the Bipartisan Safer Communities Act, the
most significant gun safety legislation in decades, and created the
first-ever White House Office of Gun Violence Prevention.

We’ve also made the largest investment in youth mental health in
American history.  And just last week, the Biden-Harris administration
implemented the largest expansion of the gun background check
requirement since 1993, addressing the very loophole that allowed the
Columbine shooters to obtain their weapons.

Under President Biden’s leadership, we are taking action, but we need
Congress to finish the job. 

They need to ban assault weapons and high-capacity magazines, require
safe storage of guns, pass a national red-flag law, and invest in proven
solutions that reduce violence, also enact universal background checks.

  
And finally, I know there’s a lot — a lot of interest in reports from
the Middle East overnight, and we understand that.  We get that. 

I’m going to say it now, though I know you all will — will certainly ask
me about it, that we do not have any comment on the reports at this
time.  Obviously, you all heard from Secretary Blinken earlier this
morning.

But, with that, Darlene, it’s good to see you.

Q    Good to see you.  Thank you.  On the Middle East.  Why is it that
you don’t have any comment at this time?  It’s been several hours since
the reported strike.  Certainly, that’s enough time for the
administration to investigate and come up with something to say.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m just going to be really mindful.  Just going back
to what I said just — just before I called on you to ask me this
question.  So, I’m not going to speak or speculate about any of the
reports that are out there.  I’m not going to comment.  And I’m just
going to leave it there.

Q    Can I ask you a domestic question then?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Absolutely. 

Q    Average gasoline prices have risen about 20 cents a gallon in the
past month.  Oil production — domestic oil production is down slightly
from its recent peak, and now we have the situation in the Middle East. 
How concerned is the administration about the combination of all of
those things?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, we’re going to continue to watch the markets very
carefully.  As you know, this is an adminis- — administration — the
Biden-Harris administration is commit- — committed to maintaining a
stable and secure energy supply and lowering prices for Americans, as
you saw the President — as you all know, when Russia invaded Ukraine and
gas prices started to go up, inflation obviously was <s>infected</s>
\[affected\] by that, the President took action and tapped into the
SPR.  So, obviously, we are — we are focused on securing energy supply
and, like I said, lowering prices for Americans. 

The United States’ current record domestic oil and gas production is
helping meet our immediate needs while we make the historic investment
needed to transition into clean — a clean energy economy, but obviously
we’re going to continue to watch the markets carefully.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.  Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  This level of silence from you guys about what’s
happening in the Middle East is really new, and I — I heard what you had
to say, but can you explain why?  Because the official line that “we’re
not going to talk about this,” that is the line — that is the choice.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Mm-hmm.

Q    Is it part of your strategy to deescalate?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, I’m going to, again, be super mindful.  And I —
I get the interest.  Obviously, I understand the interest.  And — and
I’m going to be disappointing many people here this afternoon.  I just
don’t have anything to share.  I’m not going to speculate on the
reportings out there.

You heard the same — obviously, you said our — our — what we’ve been
saying since this morning.  You heard from Secretary Blinken, and so I’m
just going to be really, really mindful. 

But as you asked me as well about escalation, I’m going to speak more
generally: We — we have been very, very clear from here from the
beginning that we do not want to see this conflict escalate.  We
continue to consult with our allies and partners, including — including
in the region, obviously, and to reduce further risk of escalation in
the region.  And that’s — that’s the sentiment that was expressed in the
G7 foreign — foreign minister — <s>ministry’s</s> \[ministers’\] joint
statement that went out this morning.  You heard that obviously from —
from Secretary Blinken, who was — who — who was part of that — who was
part of that meeting.

I’m just going to be super mindful.  I’m not going to speculate or speak
to any of the reportings that are out there at this time. 

Q    Okay.  And earlier this month, President Biden said that if Israel
did not change its approach with regard to Gaza, then the U.S. would
have to change its approach.  Can you bring us up to speed about what
Israel has done, other than the steps that it announced in those
immediate hours after the President had that phone call?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, we’re continuing to have conversations,
obviously, with the — with our counterparts in the Israeli go- — in
Israeli government.  You know that th- — as you know, we put out a — a
readout of the Rafah meeting yesterday, and it was a constructive
meeting. 

So, obviously, the readout speaks out for itself.  And as it says, the
United States and Israel agreed on the shared objective to see Hamas
defeated in Rafah.  The U.S. side — side continued to express concerns
with various courses in a- — in action in Rafah, and Israeli
participants agreed to take these concerns into account and to have
further follow-up discussions between experts. 

So, certainly, as it relates to that, we’ll have more to share.  And
we’re going to continue to have those conversations with our Israeli
government — with the Israeli government, with our counterparts there. 
And — and, you know, we’re — the President made himself very clear.  He
made himself very clear. 

Q    So, I’m actually talking about the commitments to do more to —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No —

Q    — protect civilians —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No —

Q    — and aid workers.  Just this week —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yes.

Q    — an Israeli strike hit a refugee camp that killed several
children.  So, I’m asking about the commitments to better protect people
—

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — and to get more humanitarian aid in. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, I think speaking about Rafah is also protecting
— right? —

Q    Sure.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — almost 1.5 million Palestinians who are seeking
refuge in — in Raf- — in Rafah.  So, that is something that I wanted to
make sure that was very clear.  We — we care about that, which is why
the President has been consistent about not wanting to see a major
military operation. 

So, I think that is important for — for folks out there to — to note. 

And, look, we’ve been really clear.  You know, the President had that
conversation with the Prime Minister about making sure that we protect
innocent civilians, as I just mentioned, and also the human- —
humanitarian aid workers. 

Look, we do not want to see that type of — any — any civilians — any
innocent civilian’s life taken.  We don’t want to see any humanitarian
aid workers — their lives being taken, as well, as they’re doing really
— ta- — undertaking some, you know, really brave, brave actions by
making sure that what we’re seeing in Gaza, the humanitarian crisis,
that they are attending to that and making sure that people get the
food, get the aid that they need. 

And so, we’re going to continue to have those conversation.  Israel said
— the Israeli government said that they were going to take action.  And
we’re going to continue to obviously speak with our counterparts there. 

Go ahead.

Q    On Rafah.  Did the Israeli delegation give any indication that they
were open to changing their plans?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, we’re going to certainly continue to have
those conversations.  They — they shared their side of their — their
concerns.  We shared our concerns.  I’m not going to go into details. 
We have the readout that we shared with all of you.  Just don’t have
anything beyond that. 

Q    After the G7 meeting, the Italian Foreign Minister today said that
the U.S. was informed by the Israelis at the last minute about this
counterstrike in Iran.  Is that accurate?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m not going to speak to our diplomatic
conversations. 

Q    And then, domestically, here at home, a third Republican is
expected to join the motion to vacate Speaker Johnson from his post. 
Would the President encourage Democrats to save Speaker Johnson and his
job?  Was that part of the conversation that he had with the Speaker on
Monday?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, I’ll — I’ll say this, and we’ve been very
consistent, and I think that what I’ll say will answer the question: We
do not get involved when it comes to leadership in — whether it’s the
Senate or in the House.  We’re very mindful.  That is something that the
members — in this case, the members in Congress have to decide on. 

As it relates to Democrats, Leader — Leader Hakeem Jeffries, that’s
something that he and his caucus have to make a decision on.  We do not
get involved. 

Q    The President doesn’t have any opinion about whether Democrats —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We do not —

Q    — should help save a Republican Speaker and his job?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, I’ve been asked this question many times,
whether it’s on the Senate side or the House side, in the last two
years, almost three years, when we’ve gone through these types of
exercises or the House has gone — in particular, has gone through this
exercise.  And we’ve been pretty consistent.  There’s nothing new here. 
We have said we’re not going to involve ourselves in this.  This is
something, in this case, for members of Congress to decide. 

Q    Thanks, Karine.  Just about the call yesterday between U.S. and
Israel.  To what extent did Iran come up on the call?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, I’m going to be super mindful.  I’m just not
going to speak to diplo- — diplomatic conversations.  Obviously, we put
out a — a — we put out a readout.  And so, I’m just going to leave it. 
I’m not going to go beyond the readout.

Q    There wasn’t in reference to that, but can you at least talk about
—

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m not — I’m not going to go beyond the readout that
—

Q    Okay.  What —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — we shared with all of you yesterday.

Q    –did the U.S. lobby Israel at all on a smaller-scale response?  Can
you can you talk to that?  Can you talk about that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I can say that — I’m going to be mindful because
I’m not going to speak or speculate to any of the events from last
night.  And I know — I know you all have a lot of questions on this.  I
get it.  I understand.  I just — I want to be mindful here. 

Go ahead.

Q    Okay.  Well, on domestic policy, then.  On U.S. Steel, I know you
and I spoke a little bit about that yesterday as well.  The transaction
is under review at CFIUS.  You know, that process will sort of play
out.  And, really, Japan is an ally.  So, what is really the national
security concern here?  I mean, is it Nippon’s business in China?  What
— and, you know, at the same time, the President is, of course, pledging
that, you know, the company will stay in American hands.  So, is he
confident that a CFIUS review will come up with national security
complications?  And, if that happens, what is his concern primarily?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, let me just first say at the top — and you heard
the President say this when he was making the announcement in Pittsburgh
— that steel is the backbone of our economy.  It’s the backbone of our
national security.  It helped build the middle class.  You heard
directly from this President.  The CFIU- — CFIUS has its own process. 
I’m not going to get ahead of that. 

And so, I’m going to just let that process go.  I’m not going to get
into hypotheticals.  And we’ve said before that this — this is — looks
like this is an action — an action for CFIUS to take on.  And so, that
is what’s — they’re going to d- — designed, obviously — they are
designated to examine this.  And so, we’re going to let that process be.

Q    Is the White House telling CFIUS — is there sort of any kind of
mandated timeframe they’re —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  They’re — they’re independent.  They are independent
body, and we’re going to let CFIUS —

Q    So, how is the President —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — move their process.

Q    — as confident as he is pledging that the company will remain in
U.S. hands?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, you know, he believes — the President believes
that U.S. Steel will remain an — American owned and American operated. 

We’re going to let CFIUS run its operations, do its process.  It is
designated to do this process.  I’m just not going to comment. 

But he believes strongly on that, as you just stated in your question. 

Go ahead.

Q    Last weekend, President Biden advised the Israeli Prime Minister in
his phone call to think carefully and strategically about next steps
following Iran’s attack against Israel.  Is it the U.S. assessment that
the Prime Minister took the President’s advice?  And has it tamped down
concerns of escalation in the region?

  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Going to be mindful here.  I — we’re not — I’m not
going to speculate or speak on any of the events that’s been reported
overnight.  So, I’m just going to leave it there.  
  
We have been very clear — you heard this from Secretary Blinken this
morning — about de-escalation, not escalating in the region.  We’ve been
very clear about that.  
  
Any question that is related to the reporting out there, I’m just not
going to speculate about.  
  
Q    Okay.  Moments ago, someone set themselves on fire in front of the
courthouse where Donald Trump’s trial is underway.  Are there any plans
to step up the federal authority’s presence, enforcement?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, so, it’s a very sad news.  We’re just learning
this, as you all were reporting this live.  I was watching all of you
reporting this live.  So, it’s a developing situation, so I — I would
direct your comments, your question at this time, at least to what’s
happening currently, to local authorities.   
  
I don’t have anything beyond what you all are reporting.  It’s just
happening, and it’s developing.  It’s obviously a very sad news.

  
Q    Another question.  More than 100 people protesting the war in Gaza
were cleared off the Columbia University campus yesterday and arrested. 
Is the President aware of these arrests?  And what is his message to
these protesters?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, just let me say at the top, because I have to be
mindful here, as you know, there is a — an investigation currently being
led by the Department of Education.  It’s an ongoing civil rights
investigation of Columbia University.  So, I won’t speak to specifics
about the protest here.  
  
There’s a couple things I do want to say — is that — is that we know
this is a deeply painful moment for many communities impacted by this
conflict.  The President and our administration continues to speak out
and forcelly — forcefully condemn antisemitism, and our administration
is implementing the first-ever National Strategy to Counter
Antisemitism.  
  
In recent months, we’ve seen a shocking rise in antisemitism,
Islamophobia, and anti-Arab hate in the U.S. and around the world.  He
has also been clear that hate has no place in America, whether it is
based on race, religion, gender, gender identity, sexual orientation,
disability, or any other form of hate, which is why there is no place
for discrimination on college campuses or anywhere — anywhere in
America.  
  
The President also believes that free speech, debate, and
non-discrimination on college campuses are important American values.  
  
When students are subject to hostile environments because of their faith
or ethnicity, schools must act.  Students must be safe to learn.  And
that’s where we stand on that one.

  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    And just to follow up on the protests, I get you don’t want to go
into specifics, but what does the President think about young people in
America saying things like, “We are all Hamas” and “Long live Hamas”?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I will say — look, this is a president that has been —
since he’s been in office and the reason why he ran has been very clear
about what he witnessed in Charlottesville.  Let’s not forget what we
saw — the antisemitism, the bigotry, the hate that we saw in the street
of Charlottesville, which, as I just stated, was one of the reasons that
he decided to run.  And no president has taken more action to combat
antise- — -semitism than this president.  
  
And so, you know, in our national strategy, we made clear that when Jews
are targeted because of their beliefs, because of their identity or when
Israel is singled out because of anti-Jewish hate — hatred, that is
antisemitism.  And that is completely, completely unacceptable.  
  
Q    I do have to ask you about a different topic.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh.

  
Q    Why is President Biden saying that his Uncle Bosie was eaten by
cannibals?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, you know, I th- — I th- — I answered this question
yesterday.  I believe I’ve seen some clips on your — on your network
about me answering this question.  I don’t have much to say beyond what
I said to some of your colleagues.  
  
Look, I was there.  I think you traveled with us, too, to Pennsylvania. 
I’m not sure if you were there at the memorial in — in Scranton.  The
President had an emotional and, I think, a symbolic moment.  He had an
opportunity as president to honor his uncle’s service in uniform.  He
had an opportunity to be there, as president, to — to — you know, to
speak to the bravery of his uncle — and not just his uncle but many U.S.
service members that put their lives on the line on behalf of this
country.  
  
So, his uncle who lost his life when the military aircraft he was on
crashed in the Pacific after taking off near New Guinea, the Pres- — the
President highlighted his uncle’s story as he made the case for honoring
our sacred commitment to equip those we sta- — we send to war and take
care of them and their families when they come home.  
  
And as he iterated, the last thing American veterans are or the last
thing Americans are — should be called are “suckers” and “losers.”  And
— and that is — those types of words should not come from a
commander-in-chief, as we have in the past, and we should actually be
lifting up our American veterans and honoring them.  And that’s what you
saw from this president.  
  
Q    And I agree Second Lieutenant Ambrose J. Finnegan was a war hero. 
But the Pentagon says, “For unknown reasons, the plane was forced to
ditch in the ocean.  Both engines failed at low altitude.” 

Why is President Biden saying he was shot down?  There’s no evidence of
that. 

And why is he saying that his uncle was eaten by cannibals?  That is a
bad way to go.  (Laughter.)  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  He lost his life.  It’s not — look, I’m not —  
  
Q    It’s —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We should not make jokes about this.  
  
Q    It’s not a —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Wait.  Wait.    
  
Q    President Biden said —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No.  
  
Q    — that his uncle —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No.  
  
Q    — was eaten by cannibals.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, your — your last line is — it’s for a laugh. 
It’s for a funny — a funny statement.  And he takes this very
seriously.  His uncle, who served and protected this country, lost his
life serving.  And that should matter.  
  
You have a president that lifts up our U.S. troops, our American
veterans every day, who thinks about them, who actually thinks they’re
all heroes.  And they are.  And you have a former president who
disrespects that, who doesn’t honor that — said it as president,
“suckers” or “losers.”  
  
Q    Where did —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  That’s what he said.  
  
Q    Where did the cannibalism come from?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  But the — I think you’re missing the point.  The point
is, you have a president that lifts up American veterans, who lifts up
our U.S. service members, and that’s what matters.  He understands how
critical and how important it is to be commander-in-chief.  
  
I’m going to move on.  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  Does the President support the UAW’s efforts to
unionize its Volkswagen plant in Tennessee?  Has he been involved at all
or in touch with Shawn Fain?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I’m going to let, obviously, the —

the union speak for themselves.  I’m not going to comment on what’s
currently happening. 

You hear the President say this.  He was — he was in Pittsburgh.  You
heard — he — he — you saw how — how — how union members reacts to this
President. 

He is the most pro-union president ever, and we’re going to continue to
lift up union members.  We believe that they should certainly be paid
fairly.  We believe that they should get — get a contract that is fair,
and we’ve said that over and over again.

As it relates to this particular si- — situation that’s happening, I’m
just not going to speak to it.  I’m going to let them — let the union
deal.

Go ahead, Gabe.

Q    Karine, I know you alluded to this, and you said that you didn’t
want to speculate.  But we’re not asking for speculation.  We’re asking
for an official response.  And given that — 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — U.S. taxpayers give more than $3 billion each year for military
defense systems in Israel, shouldn’t Americans have a response from this
administration more than 12 hours after this attack? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I appreciate the question, and I understand the
importance of the American people who — you are correct, they are
taxpayers.  And I want to be incredibly mindful here.  And I understand
the interest here.  And I am going to continue to say: I’m not going to
speak to this or speculate about the reports out there.  That’s not
going to change.  And I’m just going to be super mindful.

Q    So, last week, the President warned Iran.  He said, “Don’t,” when
he was asked his message to Iran about retaliation.  They did it
anyway.  He urged Israel to show restraint.  And Israel, according to
the reporting, has retaliated.  Does the U.S. have any leverage in the
region?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I know this is not going to be satisfying.  I’m not
going to speak to any of the reports out there.  I’m just not going to
do that.  Not going to speculate. 

I will say — and we have se- — you’ve heard this from my NSC colleagues,
and you’ve heard this from many of us here at the White House: The
President and the Prime Minister have a — a longstanding relationship
that goes decades — decades.  And because of that longstanding
relationship, they are able to speak very honestly with each other and
have difficult conversations when it’s necessary.  That is the type of
friendship that they have. 

I’m just not going to speak to any of the events that’s been reported. 

Go ahead, Justin.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  I appreciate you aren’t ready to speak to it right
now, but I don’t think we’re expecting to hear from you guys again until
Tuesday.  Can you make some sort of commitment to, you know, brief on
this before the middle of next week?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, I — what I will say is that I — I

don’t have any schedule to announce or anything to share about,

you know, speaking on — on the reports that are out there or making a
comment.  I wouldn’t expect — I wouldn’t expect anything further beyond
today. 

But, again, want to be super mindful.  I’m not going to speak to this. 
I’m not going to —

Q    Sure.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — give comments. 

Q    I mean, I think it would just be (inaudible) —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, I — I understand, but it’s –it’s hard for me to —
to say to you, “Before Monday.”  That is —

Q    Yeah.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have anything in the docket.  I don’t have any
schedule to speak to at this moment.  At this time, I just can’t spec- —
speculate or speak to any of the reports from — that —

Q    (Inaudible.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — that are being — any of the — the reporting from the
event overnight.

Q    Then a couple of domestic ones, then.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Sure.  Sure, sure. 

Q    There’s reports overnight that Sony is discussing a bid for
Paramount that would push consolidation among — in Hollywood and amongst
studios to some of the tightest we’ve ever seen it.  Considering the
White House’s push for competition, do you guys have any concerns about
such a deal?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, as you mentioned, the Competition Council is
something that the President put together because he wanted to make sure
that we can — there’s fair competition out there.  And so, obviously,
it’s important to have that Competition Council.

I’m not going to speak on the potential action that being — may be taken
by Sony.  I’m just going to leave that there. 

Q    And then on 702.  Senator Durbin, the Democratic Whip, has not
backed down on his push for an amendment that would require warrants for
certain information.  Does the White House feel confident that this is
going to get through the Senate today to avoid the — the lapse that
would happen if it wasn’t reauthorized?  And why is — why do you think
you’ve been un- — unable to convince Senator Durbin not to push forward
with this?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  On — on which piece?

Q    The amendment on 702.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, on FISA.  So, also going to be careful here.  I
don’t want to get ahead of the most important point here, which is the
provision underpinning the government’s most critical foreign
intelligence tool.  As you know, Section 702, which is also FISA, is
expired to — is — is going to expire today and, you know, with — along
with other provisions.

Look, Section 702 provides irreplaceable information on almost every
threat that the American people expect their government to find and
stop: terrorist plots, illicit fentanyl, ransomware and other
cyberattacks, Russian war crimes, and many more.  And so, we’re going to
continue to urge the Senate to act to authorize it now. 

It is — the bipartisan bill is currently, as you just stated in your
question, in the Senate — in the Senate.  And so, we strongly support
it. 

And so, we’re going to continue to have those conversations with Senate
— Senate members on making sure that we move forward with it,
encouraging to pass it.  This is something that our Office of Leg
Affairs; our, obviously, National Security Council has been on top of
not just this past week, not just today, but for several weeks now.  And
we want to strongly see it move forward. 

And so, as you can imagine, we’re having conversation with senators. 
And so, hopefully, we see that.

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  Just going back to the Columbia protests really
quickly.  Does the President see these arrests as a threat to freedom of
speech or assembly?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, look, I got to be super careful.  I got to be
m- — really mindful.  This — there is an investigation currently
happening with — ongoing with Columbia University about the Civil Rights
Act und- — that’s under the Civil Rights Act.  And so, going to be super
mindful.

I talked about — I laid out the importance of — of freedom of speech,
but also the importance of making sure that students don’t feel fear- —
fearful, and making sure students are — are able to go to school feeling
safe.  And so, I have to be really, really careful here because there is
an investigation, and so I’m just going to leave it there. 

I did — well, I’ll say one more thing.  We understand that this time is
incredibly painful for many Americans.  And at the same time — right? —
it’s important for schools to protect students.  It is one of the things
that we have to do as — respecting — and, also, they must do this
respecting of — of freedom — their freedom, obviously, to debate on
their campuses.  But students should feel safe.

Q    And one more, please, if you don’t mind. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    The President has made a lot of policy — like, notable policy moves
recently with student loan debt forgiveness and the steel tariffs and
the drilling moves in Alaska.  Are all of these — can you just talk
about why are these happening right now?  And is there — are they an
attempt to kind of just shore up the Democratic base? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, I would read this as what the President promised
in 2020, what the President said when he walked into this
administration.   
  
He said: Climate change is a crisis — is one of the crises that we are
dealing with not just here in this country but, obviously, globally. 
And he has been incredibly progressive on this, taking actions that we
have not seen any other president take.

And so, he’s — this is his commitment.  I would see this as a commitment
that he has made not just to young people but to Americans as our role,
as the United States — obviously, as the United States of America, to
make sure that we are doing our part in dealing with climate crisis. 
And that’s what you’re seeing.

You’re seeing that from this — from this announcement today, but from
many other announcements.  So, it’s not just now.  He’s been doing this
from day one of this administration.

Go ahead, Danny.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  Firstly, can I just ask you: Has the President
been briefed on these reported events that you don’t wish to speculate
on?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So — (laughter) — I knew — I knew some humor would be
coming in.  And I appreciate the humor.

So, I will say this: The President is regularly kept up to date in real
time by his national security team.  And certainly, the last 24 hours,
there’s no exception there.  But, again, as you just stated in your ans-
— in your question to me, I’m just not going to speculate on any
specific events.

Q    Okay.  And just one other thing on Ukraine, if I may.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    If — if the supplemental passes, how soon do you anticipate that
U.S. military aid could start getting through to Ukraine again?  Is
there any timeline on that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Right away.  Right away.  We have been clear since
October, since we put forth the original, obviously, national security
supplemental, how critical it was to get that Ukraine aid to the brave
people of — of Ukraine who have been fighting — who have been fighting
to protect their democracy, fighting for their freedom, obviously.

And so, we’ve been saying it is critical.  It is critical.  They have
been losing ground because of Congress inaction.   
  
But we are — and I’ll — I’ll add this: We are very grateful to see that
the House is moving, to see that it is moving in a bipartisan way.  We
want to get that out of the House, obviously, out of the Senate, to the
— to — to the desk of this President, and he will sign it right away so
that the brave people of Ukraine can get that aid.

We know what Mr. Putin wants to do.  He wants to take over their
sovereign territory.  And we cannot allow that.  We know what happens
when you do not stop a tyrant, when you do not stop a dictator.  And we
cannot have that history repeat itself.

Go ahead, Jon.

Q    Thanks a lot, Karine.  Following up on that legislation regarding
Ukraine that will be likely voted on tomorrow.  Plan A was for the House
to take up that bill that passed the Senate 70 to 29.  That apparently
has not happened.  Is this, for the administration, a satisfactory plan
B, having this standalone bill passed by the House?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, we see it as — he said this.  He — I mean, the
President said this maybe two days ago.  I’m losing track of my days
this week.  But he strongly supports this package to reinforce Israel
and Ukraine.  And let’s not forget the humanitarian aid that’s needed in
— in — for the Palestinian people, in Haiti, in Su- — in Sudan.  This is
important humanitarian aid.  Let’s not forget this — the security in
Indo-Pacific.

So, these are — this is what this package is going to do.  The President
strongly supports that.  He — as I just stated to Danny, your colleague
here, that we want to see — the President wants to see it moved out of
the House, which is — I’m going to let the Hou- — obviously, let the
House speak to their protocols and their processes.  It’s going to move
out of the House.  Then he wants to see it move out of the Senate.  He
wants to see it on his desk so he can sign it so we can get that aid —
the security assistance, obviously, to Ukraine. 

That’s very needed.  I talked about the humanitarian aid that’s needed. 
I tal- — also, the all-important aid that’s needed to Israel as well and
Indo-Pacific.  This is important.  But we see it as a package.  That’s
how it’s moving forward.

Q    And then in response to Danny’s question, you said that Ukraine has
been losing ground because of congressional inaction — 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — inaction in the House.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  That’s something we’ve said multiple times.

Q    So, is it your expectation that because of this package that likely
will pass the House, hopefully, from your perspective, pass the Senate,
get to the President’s desk, that Ukraine can win back that ground that
they’ve lost because of congressional inaction?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, what we need to do right now is make sure that
they have the security assistance to defend themselves, to defend their
sovereign territory.  I can’t speak to the military operations on the
ground.  And what I’m — what I’m repeating is something that the CIA
Director said even yesterday.  He said that — to the Big Four when they
met very early on this year, that they are losing ground and con- —
congressional inaction is hurting — is hurting what Ukraine is trying to
do.

So, we want to see — right now we’re seeing action.  I want to be very
clear: We’re grateful for the action that we’re seeing coming out of the
House.  We want to see it out of the House, out of the Senate, to the
desk of the President so that he can sign it.  And so, we are grateful
for that — for that movement that we’re seeing. 

And we’re grateful to both the Speaker and Leader Jeffries that they’re
moving in a bipartisan way to get that all — very important, needed
national security supplemental aid to the — to the — to Ukraine, Israel,
humanitarian aid, obviously, and also the security of In- —
Indo-Pacific.

Go ahead.

Q    Karine, two questions, both on the aid bill.  The first one is more
logistical, kind of a follow-up.  What kind of engagement will the
President have over the next day or so?  Is he planning any calls to
House members, to Speaker Johnson?  And how is he ingesting, sort of,
what’s going on?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, a couple of things.  As you know, earlier this
week, the President had a call with the Big Four.  And that was — and
you’re talking about the na-  
  
Q    Yeah.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay, national security supplemental.  So, he had a
call with the Big — the Big Four.  And I think that’s important to note.

And on Monday, the Speaker — Speaker Johnson reached out to the
President to share his plan for the national security supplemental. 
Obviously, the President shared his support for moving — moving that
package forward.  And throughout the week — but, I mean, not just the
week.  It’s been some time now. 

You have — you have our offices here — Office of Leg Affairs, other
advisors to the President — meeting, talking regularly with leaders in
Con- — in Congress to talk about — to p- — to offer any — any assistant
here, but provided consistent briefings — continued consistent briefings
— that hasn’t stopped — on pressing national security needs.

And so, those conversations continue.  The President has been very much
engaged in this week, this — this past week.   
  
And so, look, we want to see this moving.  We want to see this moving. 
We’re grateful to the leaders for getting this moving — certainly looks
like — out of the House.  We want to see it moved out of the Senate, get
this signed by the President so we can get that — the — that
all-important national security needs to where — to — to protect our
national security, obviously.

Q    But anything as it comes over the finish line over the next day or
so?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Don’t have anything from the President himself
reaching out.  Don’t have anything else to share.  But the President has
been engaged.  He was — he talked to the Big Four, and Speaker Johnson
called him to lay out what was in — how he was moving forward, what was
in the package.  And we appreciated that.   
  
Q    Let me ask just one more.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, sure.   
  
Q    I — the President is a student of history.  He ran largely on
returning norms —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — to Washington.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    I — what does he think about the fact that, you know, for the
second time in seven months, we’re kind of knocking on the door of
ousting another House Speaker?   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I mean, you said something that I probably should
have said in — in my answer to you about how we’re moving — how the
national security supplemental was moving.   
  
Look, it’s moving in a bipartisan way.  You’re right, the President
believes in — in getting — and the way to get things done for the
American people: to do it in a bipartisan way.  And that’s what we’re
seeing with this national security supplemental.  Because it’s not just
about — it’s not just about Ukraine and Israel and Indo-Pacific.  It’s
also about our own national security, which is why it’s important that
we step in, and this is why it’s important that we move — move quickly
here.   
  
And so, I think that’s important to note, that we are seeing a
bipartisan process here as it relates to our national security.   
  
Look, you know, that is a question for House members to speak to.  It is
their decision on who their Speaker is going to be.  So, that is
something that they have to deal with.   
  
What the President wants to see is to make sure that really important
initiatives, really important issues are moving forward.  And that’s
what we’re seeing with the national sec- — security supplemental.  
  
Go ahead.  I know I have to wrap.  
  
Q    On the national security —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — supplemental.  There’s language in it that has the — language
that would force the sale of TikTok that could eventually lead to a
TikTok ban.  That’s stalled in the Senate.  Is the White House concerned
about legal challenges that might come to — to that —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look —  
  
Q    — piece of (inaudible)?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, I — we have expressed strong support, obviously,
for the package.  And — and certainly, we’ll continue — the national
security package — certainly we’ll continue to show our support, as I’ve
been doing for the past, you know, few minutes here.  And, you know, it
was — this — this bill — obviously, this national pac- — this national
security package includes this bill, as you just mentioned.  It i- —
which has improved thanks to the leadership of members of the House and
the Senate.   
  
So, in that — what you’re talking about — the TikTok divestment, not a
ban, of the app TikTok — there’s been improvements in this made by both
— both chambers.  So, we’re proud to see that.   
  
And just to be very clear, it is not a ban; it is a divestment.  It
would ensure that ownership of these apps wouldn’t be in the hands of
those who can exploit them and to do us harm.  And so, that’s how we’re
seeing.

  
Q    But if it doesn’t sell, there will be a ban, right?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, that’s not — look, let’s — let’s — let’s see
where this goes.  We believe — we support the package as it certainly
stands.  There’s been improvement made to it.  We think that matters. 
We see this as a divestment, not a ban.  And it is important.  This is
another piece of our national security and protecting our national
security, protecting American people.  So, making sure that they don’t
get exploited and that harm could be done.   
  
Go ahead, Gerren.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  Ahead of the cannabis holiday 4/20, a few advocacy
groups, including the Drug Policy Alliance and SPLC, sent a letter to
the President thanking him for his actions on marijuana reform, but they
say that it falls short of promises he made when he was a candidate in
2020 that he would decriminalize marijuana.   
  
They acknowledge that the rescheduling of marijuana is — is an attempt
to address racial equities, but they say that it doesn’t go far enough. 
They want the President to publicly support decriminalization.   
  
Does the White House believe that it has done enough as it relates to
the issue of marijuana reform?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, look, on decriminalization, the President has
been very, very clear.  He doesn’t believe that anyone should be in jail
or be prosecuted just for using or — or possessing marijuana.  He
continues to say that.  He believes that.   
  
As you know, he asked the Secretary of HHS and the Attorney General to
initiate the administrative process to review how marijuana is being
scheduled.   
  
HHS concluded their independent review, which was guided by evidence, by
science, which is how we — what we believe here in this administration. 
And now the scheduling review is now with the Department of Justice.   
  
And so, would certainly — the process is still going, the review is
still going, so DOJ has this.  But the President has been really, really
clear about how he feels about — you know, about the pros- — people
being prosecuted just for pr- — using or possessing marijuana.  That has
not sta- — changed.   
  
And now HHS has — did their review, and now DOJ — it’s in the hands of
DOJ.  
  
Q    (Inaudible) — any future announcements whether par- — future
pardons or anything else?

  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t ha- — as it relates to pardons, I don’t have
anything to preview at this time.   
  
But, look, there’s a review that Department of Justice is currently
undergoing.  So, we got to let them do their review.  The President has
been pretty clear on where he stands on this. 

  
And so, I would refer you to Department of Justice on any — you know, on
rescheduling and their review.   
  
I do have to wrap it up.

  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you, Karine.  In light of recent events that we’re not
discussing, is there less pressure on the President to condition aid to
Israel?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  (Laughs.)  Not going to speculate on any of the events
that have been reported.  Me answering that question would be
speculating on those said events.  So, I’m not going to speculate on
those events or any of the reports that are out there.   
  
And I know that is not satisfying to all of you.  But that is where we
are.   
  
Q    Can I just follow up?  The House —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yep.  
  
Q    The House Israel bill includes a provision that congressional
notification of foreign military financing obligation may be waived
under emergency authority of the Secretary of State, which means up to
$3.5 billion

of weapons can potentially be provided to Israel without notifying
lawmakers.   
  
Does the administration believe that the American taxpayers have the
right to know what kind of weapons we’re sending to Israel?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, let’s let the process move forward.  But you have
heard from me, you’ve heard the President: We support this package. 
This is about our national security.  This is about, you know, making
sure — we saw what happened, obviously, with Iran and what happened
recently, earlier this week, and how they — and what they did and how
they attacked Israel.   
  
So, we understand — right? — we understand that we have to continue our
strong commitment to Israel’s security.  That is — continues to be
ironclad.  But it’s not just that that’s in the national security
package.  We’re also talking about Ukraine, we’re also talking about
humanitarian aid to — to the Palestinian people, to the people of Sudan
and Haiti.  And this is really — and the security of Indo-Pacific,
obviously.   
  
So, we support that package.  I’m not going to get into speculation
here.  Let’s let the House do their process and the Senate do their
process.   
  
Q    And then just one last one, Karine.  I know that Jake told us that
he’s consulting with allies and partners on the Middle East issue.  I
was wondering: Has the administration had any conversation with China
regarding the Middle East since last Saturday?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have any- — anything to — to share beyond the
readout that we had when the President spoke to President Xi.  Outside
of that, don’t have anything else.   
  
All right.  Thanks, everybody.  Thank you. 

Q    (Inaudible) on the 911 outage?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Thanks, everybody.  Have a good weekend.  
  
2:48 P.M EDT
