---
date: '2024-04-07'
modified_time: 2024-04-08 11:39:38-04:00
published_time: 2024-04-07 19:15:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/04/07/press-call-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-secretary-of-education-miguel-cardona-and-senior-administration-officials-on-president-bidens-efforts-on-student-debt/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Call by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre, Secretary of Education Miguel\
  \ Cardona, and Senior Administration Officials on President\_Biden\u2019s Efforts\
  \ on Student\_Debt"
---
 
Via Teleconference

6:32 P.M. EDT  
  
MR. FERNÁNDEZ HERNÁNDEZ:  Good afternoon, everyone.  Thank you for
joining our press call regarding the President’s ongoing efforts to
cancel student debt.  
  
Today’s call will begin with on-the-record remarks from White House
Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre and U.S. Secretary of Education
Miguel Cardona. 

After the remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session that will
be on background and attributable to “senior administration
officials.”  
  
With that, Karine, I will turn it over to you.  
  
Karine?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Hello?  Can you hear me?  
  
MR. FERNÁNDEZ HERNÁNDEZ:  Yes.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, okay.  I apologize, guys.  I thought I was
unmuted.  
  
Thanks, Angelo.  And thanks, everyone, for joining. 

  
From day one, President Biden vowed to fix the broken student loan
system and make sure education was a ticket to the middle class and not
a barrier to opportunity.  And our administration has taken historic
steps to cancel student debt for 4 million Americans so far. 

That’s 4 million people who have the breathing room to start businesses,
buy homes, grow their families, and pursue their dreams. 

We’ve helped these borrowers through fixing Public Service Loan
Forgiveness, so nurses, teachers, and other public service workers who
have served their communities so — for 10 years can actually get the
debt relief they are entitled to under the law.  
  
Since taking office, nearly 900,000 people have gotten Public Service
Loan Forgiveness.  Before we came into office, only 7,000 people had
ever seen that relief since the program started over 15 years ago. 

The President launched a new repayment plan, the SAVE Plan — millions —
pardon me — the SAVE Plan, which is the most affordable repayment plan
ever, helping millions of borrowers have zero-dollar payments on their
loans.  
  
And earlier this year, we announced we were canceling the remaining
student debt for over 150,000 borrowers enrolled in SAVE who took out
loan balances of loans that — low balances of loans.  That debt
cancellation came six months ahead of schedule. 

Those are just some of the ways that the President and — and the — and
the Biden-Harris administration have delivered student debt relief to
millions of Americans. 

And in <s>2021</s> \[2022\], President Biden announced that — announced
a plan that would have elected of- — that would have canceled — I’m so
sorry, guys — that would have canceled student debt for 40 million
Americans.  But Republicans’ elected of- — elected officials sued us,
and the Supreme Court sided with them, leaving — with them, leaving
millions of people with the burden of student loan debt. 

On the day of that decision, President Biden promised he — that he
wouldn’t stop fighting to deliver debt relief, and he announced that his
Department of Education would immediately pursue a new path for debt
cancelation. 

Tomorrow’s announcement is a result of that work. 

Tomorrow, the President will announce his administration’s new plans to
cancel debt — cancel student debt.  And when combined with actions we’ve
already taken, 30 million people would benefit from student debt relief
under the Biden-Harris administration if these plans are fa- —
finalized.

I’ll let the Secretary talk more about the specific plans, but in total,
they would help 23 million people get all of their interest canceled if
their balance today is more than it was when they started paying back
their loans.  
  
They would deliver $5,000 in relief to over 10 million borrowers.  And
millions of borrowers would see their entire debts wiped out.  
  
If these plans are finalized as proposed, our administration plans to
start implementing some of these plans, such as interest cancellation,
as early as this fall.   
  
Tomorrow, President Biden will deliver — will — will travel to Ma- —
Madison, Wisconsin, where he will announce these plans and meet directly
with borrowers who have benefited from his administration’s student debt
relief efforts. 

We have Vice President, Second Gentleman, Secretary Cardona all fanning
out across the country to meet with Americans who have had their debt
cancelation — cancelled by the Biden adm- — -Harris administration and
hear what his relief has meant to them.  
  
Vice President Harris will be in Philadelphia, the Second Gentleman will
be in Phoenix, and Secretary Cardona will be in New York City. 

I’ll close by saying that President Biden will use every tool available
to cancel student loan debt for as many borrowers as possible, no matter
how many times Republican elected officials try to stand in his way. 

Thank you.  And I’ll turn it over to Secretary Cardona.  
  
Secretary, the floor is yours.  
  
SECRETARY CARDONA:  Thank you very much, Karine.  And I really want to
thank everyone for joining in today.  
  
When I became Education Secretary a little over three years ago,
President Biden looked at me, and he said, “We’ve got a broken system,
and I need you to fix it.”  
  
When the Supreme Court struck down the President’s boldest student debt
relief plan, within hours, we said, “We won’t be deterred.”  We
announced a new rulemaking process designed to provide borrowers relief
under the Higher Education Act.  
  
And today’s announcement shows that we’re continuing to fulfill our
promises.

  
As you know, the negotiated rulemaking process is how we change and
improve our higher education policies.  As a result of that process,
which we started last fall, the administration is announcing new
proposals today to deliver student debt relief to as many as 30 million
Americans. 

  
That includes more than 25 million borrowers who owe more money than
they did at the start of repayment due to runaway interest — again, a
broken system.  It includes automatic debt relief for least 2 million
borrowers who are eligible for existing loan forgiveness program or
closed school loan discharges but who haven’t yet successfully enrolled
in or applied for these programs.  
  
It includes borrowers who have been living with their student loans for
20 years or more and who have not already had their debt forgiven.  And
it includes borrowers who have been taken advantage of by career
training programs that left them with high debt and low-value
credentials or borrowers who attended schools with unacceptably high
rates of student loan defaults.

If these plans are finalized as proposed, altogether, this
administration will begin to cancel up to $20,000 in interest for
millions of borrowers and full loan forgiveness for millions more this
fall. 

That’s on top of the $146 billion in student loan debt relief for four
million Americans that we’ve already approved, more than any other
administration in our country’s history.

We’ve also expanded Pell Grants to 1.7 million more Americans and are
holding predatory institutions that cheated students accountable. 

It bears repeating: We’re delivering as much relief as possible for as
many borrowers as possible as quickly as possible. 

And what does that really mean for people?

It means breathing room.  It means freedom from feeling like your
student loan bills compete with basic needs like grocery or healthcare.

It means the teacher I met in Philadelphia, who’d been teaching for 20
years, can finally afford to put a handicap-accessible bathtub in her
house for her disabled husband thanks to the $20,000 in student loan
debt relief she received.  Again, she’s been teaching for 20 years, and
it was because of the debt relief that she can adjust the bathroom so
that her husband can use it without issues.  
  
Imagine that — working for 20 years and you can’t do that without the
loan forgiveness.  That’s unacceptable.

Now, there’s an end to the nightmare of working hard, making loan
payments, and still watching your loan balances get bigger and bigger
month after month, and we’re proud to announce what we’re announcing
today. 

Generations of students can now imagine themselves pursuing higher
education instead of ruling it out early, sometimes as early as middle
school, because of the cost.  And as a former school principal, I
remember talking to young students who thought college was out of reach
for them as young people.

President Biden often says the one word that describes America is
“possibility.”  And when I think about all the possibility and all the
potential we can unlock when — when young people see that they can
afford and access higher education, I think this work is nothing short
of transformative. 

That’s why we’re unapologetic about this fight.  Student loan
forgiveness isn’t only about relief for today’s borrowers.  It’s about
social mobility, economic prosperity, and creating an America that lives
up to its highest ideals.

  
Again, thank you for joining.  And I’ll turn it back over to Angelo now,
who will continue with the call.   
  
MR. FERNÁNDEZ HERNÁNDEZ:  Thank you, Secretary Cardona. 

At this point, we will move to the question-and-answer portion of the
call.  As a reminder, this will be on background and attributable to
“senior administration officials.”

Please use the “raise hand” function on Zoom.  And I will give you all a
minute to queue up.

Okay.  We will start — as you are called on, please identify yourself
and your outlet.   
  
We will start with Jennifer Jacobs.  Over to you.

Q    Hey there.  Karine mentioned that you think that this would be
implemented in the fall.  But can you say, are you expecting that it
would be implemented before the election?  That’s one question.

And then secondly, will this plan go to a comment period?  And if yes,
there will be a comment period, when will that start?  Thank you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  (Inaudible.)  So, yes, these rule- —
these proposals will go out for public comment in the coming months. 
And the goal is to start delivering relief early this fall.

MR. FERNÁNDEZ HERNÁNDEZ:  Thank you.  We will go to Michael next.  You
should be unmuted now.

Q    Hey, thanks.  I appreciate being called on.  I have two questions
sort of along the same lines of — of timing.   
  
One is, you know, given that the public comment period will ask for
months and that — I think one of the — I can’t remember if it was the
Secretary or Karine talked about some of the programs being implemented
by the fall, is there — is there an exp- — I mean, it feels like the
calendar is working against you here, that it’s unlikely that a lot of
this is going to be implemented much before the election or before the
fall.   
  
So, if you could talk a little bit more about which — which things you
actually realistically think you could — you could put into effect. 

And then secondly, but related, is: Can you talk a little bit about the
likelihood of a legal challenge?  And if there is a legal challenge,
doesn’t that suggest that, you know, then you’re adding months and
months on top of — on top of that, which — which puts you well beyond —
you know, well into a potential second term?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  With regard to the timing question,
this is not outside the norm for what we’ve done to turn around rules
from draft to final by the early fall.  And we do anticipate beginning
to cancel the outstanding interest for borrowers early this fall and
then working on debt relief for millions of others. 

I’ll defer the questions on the legal challenges to others.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, just to echo \[senior
administration official\] and, you know, the Secretary: The President’s
goal has been to deliver as much relief to as many people as possible as
quickly as possible.  And so, you know, we are focused on that goal
within the constraints of what we can do.  And \[senior administration
official\] talked a little bit about, you know, our sense of where we
are on that right now. 

I think, with respect to the legal questions, you know, we know that
some Republicans in Congress and some Republican attorneys general have
opposed the administration’s efforts to prevent millions of middle-class
Americans from receiving student debt relief.  And we know some of them
have even challenged the President’s work to fix administration of
flawed programs that were originally established by Congress through
bipartisan legislation, even where that work is clearly legal. 

So, it is unfortunate that Republican politicians have fought to deny
breathing room to millions of working families who are struggling with
student debt.  But after the Supreme Court weighed in on our original
debt relief program, the President was quite clear, and he directed his
administration to develop an alternative plan.  And this plan is being
done under the Secretary’s longstanding authority under the Higher
Education Act. 

You know, we have studied the Supreme Court’s decision carefully.  We
intend to pursue these regulations in a way that is entirely consistent
with that decision.  The plans differ from the administration’s prior
pandemic relief proposal in a number of significant ways, and the
Department’s proceeding under different legal authority, which is
longstanding.  And the plans involve different considerations by
providing targeted relief to borrowers with particular circumstances. 

So, you know, this isn’t the same plan.  And we feel confident going
forward.

MR. FERNÁNDEZ HERNÁNDEZ:  Thanks, \[senior administration official\]. 
We’ll go to Zachary next.  You should be unmuted now.

Q    Hi there.  Yeah, thanks for doing this.  So, again, just following
up on timing here.  So, you say that you’re expected to begin
implementing some of this stuff by the fall.  Can you help me understand
how that’s possible if the regulation that went through the neg reg
isn’t expected to go into effect by July of next year? 

And then, when can we expect the NPRM?  Is that going to be next month,
a month after that?  You know, \[senior administration official\], you
said “in the coming months.”

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  I don’t have an exact date for you on
the NPRM, but it is coming. 

And then the Secretary has the ability to designate provisions for early
implementation.  As you may recall, we early implemented some parts of
the SAVE program, which is why borrowers are already seeing more of
their income protected.  It’s why they’re not seeing their balances grow
from accumulating interest and why we are beginning to provide relief to
borrowers with lower original loans for college now.

MR. FERNÁNDEZ HERNÁNDEZ:  Thank you.  We will go to Katie next.  You
should be unmuted now.

Q    Hi, thanks.  This is Katie Lobosco at CNN.  Can you say, like,
whether or not — are all these proposals, like, a one-time thing?  Like,
at one point in time, people who qualify are going to get the debt
relief, or could someone possibly qualify, like, years later?

And also, if I’m — and just for clarification, it seems like the
interest cancellation is the biggest part of that.  Like, that would be
23 out of possibly 26 million people who are getting debt relief.  I
just want to make sure that that’s how I should be understanding this. 
Thanks.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  It’s a mixture in these proposals.  I
think, taken together with the other things the President has done, the
goal is to, as the Secretary said, solve the student loan crisis and
make loans more affordable on a permanent basis. 

The interest forgiveness is currently crafted as a one-time benefit, for
example, but going forward, borrowers will benefit from substantially
more favorable treatment through the SAVE program and other borrowers
will benefit from revised rules around interest capitalization. 

So, overall, it is an attempt to build upon the progress the President
has made to make sure that no borrowers are left with loans they can’t
afford to repay and to substantially reduce the burden of student loans
and give borrowers additional breathing room.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  And just to —  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  (Inaudible.)  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  — (inaudible) thing that \[senior
administration official\] said, you know, there are a lot of different
pieces here.  And one thing to keep in mind is that, you know, there is
potential overlap between the different populations, you know, that are
subject to the various forms of relief that we’re proposing here.  And
so, you know, in terms of the total numbers — right? — you know, people
could be eligible for multiple channels.  And then, obviously, going
forward, borrowers have access to programs like SAVE and PSLF. 

So, you know, we believe we’re going to reach 30 million people, but,
you know, underneath that, people could be accessing, you know, various
provisions.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  And — and just to pile on on \[senior
administration official\]’s last point about SAVE.   In SAVE, which is
an ongoing program that’s widely available, if you have small balances,
you can get forgiveness in as little as 10 years.  If you are repaying
for 20 or 25 years, you get forgiveness.  And if you have a lower
income, you can have zero payment and you’re not accruing interest. 

And, in fact, the interest provision we’re talking about here is
providing retrospectively, going backwards, an interest benefit that is
available to everyone in SAVE right now on a forward-looking basis.   
  
So, if you are paying back zero dollars or low le- — low amounts in the
SAVE program every month, you’re not accruing interest.  And that’s
because of the benefit of forgiveness of interest that’s built into
SAVE.

MR. FERNÁNDEZ HERNÁNDEZ:  Thank you.  We will go to Michael next.  You
should be unmuted now.

Q    Hey, it’s Michael Stratford at Politico.  Thanks for doing the
call. 

I’m wondering if you can just walk us through the math of how you get to
the 30 million figure and if you could give us a little more detail on
what exactly that figure includes and maybe doesn’t include.   
  
It doesn’t look like you have, for example, an estimate for the hardship
category.  And there was also, I think in one of the fact sheets, a
number of 10 million borrowers getting at least $5,000 in debt relief or
more.  I’m wondering if you can sort of be more specific about how these
numbers all fit together. 

Thanks.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  I can start.  I think we will have
greater detail in coming months as we produce the additional rules that
you have heard about.  And so — so, there will be an opportunity to look
under the hood more. 

But what we can say is that there are 25 million people benefiting from
the interest forgiveness provision here.  And there are 4 million people
getting full debt forgiveness.  And there are 10 million people getting
more than $10,000 in forgiveness.  And that when you sum the effects of
all the forgiveness provisions that we are talking about here, you get
over that 30 million figure.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, just to add to that.  As \[senior
administration official\] said, you know, 25 million in this interest
category.  There’s a number — there’s another 2 million, approximately,
we think are in the sort of eligible but ha- — you know, for forgiveness
— but haven’t applied, mostly due to SAVE.  And then we have about 2
million — around 2 million that are in the category of loans that are
about 20 years or more old. 

And then in the category of low financial value programs, we think that
that is, you know, about a fifth of a million existing borrowers and
more sort of into the future. 

And as you noted, with respect to hardship, you know, that will be an
additional population as well that will cover additional people.

MR. FERNÁNDEZ HERNÁNDEZ:  Thank you.  We will go to Andrew next.  You
should be unmuted now.

Q    Thanks. 

Can you talk a little bit about if you’ve projected the potential
economic effects of this sort of mass-level forgiveness?  Any concern
that it could be inflationary? 

And then, on the legal theory, you said you studied the — the Supreme
Court opinion.  On the first page of the opinion in — in June last year,
Justice Roberts said that the Higher Education Act can cancel or reduce
loans in — in, quote, “certain limited circumstances.”  Any concern that
he’s sort of sending a signal that a wide use of this would get struck
down by the Court?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  I’ll take the second question first. 

You know, as I noted, we’ve studied the opinion carefully.  I think, you
know, what you hear us talking about rolling out here is a variety of
specific interventions and proposals that address specific situations
and specific populations in ways that we feel very confident are covered
by what the Secretary’s longstanding authority under HEA allows him to
do.  And we’re confident that we’re acting within the scope of the law,
as set forth by the Supreme Court. 

On the question of economic impact, you know, we have some CEA analysis
that’s coming that we can follow up with you on around the plan.  I
would say, generally, we know that student debt relief leads to economic
mobility.  We know it leads to people contributing to the economy, being
in a better position to be able to, for example, take out mortgages to
buy homes and loans to start businesses. 

So, we know it’s good for people.  We know it’s good for the economy. 

We’re not concerned about an inflationary effect based on the analysis
the CEA has done, you know, and we’ll have more detail on that that we
can share. 

But we do feel good about its effect on economic growth and economic
mobility and improving the ability of families to really be able to get
that breathing room that the President has talked about and that the
Secretary talked about in these sorts of situations.

MR. FERNÁNDEZ HERNÁNDEZ:  Thank you.  We’ll have a time for a couple
more questions.  We will go into Ayelet next.  You should be unmuted
now.

Q    Hey.  This is Ayelet Sheffey with Business Insider. 

Can you confirm whether all of this relief will be automatic?  Or will
there be any actions that borrowers have to take to be eligible?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Our goal is for the vast majority of
this relief to be automatic.  Obviously, when you start talking about
hardship, there are some things there that we’re looking to make as
automatic as possible, but there may be details that we don’t have
available to us.  But our goal is for the overwhelming majority of
things like interest, loans that are older, borrowers that attended
programs that didn’t deliver financial value — to do that all
automatically.

MR. FERNÁNDEZ HERNÁNDEZ:  Thank you.  And we will go to Michael Jones
next.  You should be unmuted now.

Q    Thanks so much for doing this.  And thanks for taking my question. 
Michael Jones from Once Upon a Hill. 

I’m curious — you know, obviously the Supreme Court made the decision
last year.  The President has taken a lot of executive action.  I’m
curious: Behind the scenes, have there been any conversations with
congressional leaders, with members of any — either party to see if
there’s any consensus around any legislative action that could be taken
by Congress? 

A lot of this conversation is focused on the Supreme Court decision and
the President’s, I think, executive actions.  I understand the mar- —
the margins aren’t there, you know, vote wise for as much as the
President would probably like.  But I’m curious if there’s any — been
any conversation behind the scenes with Congress about any legislative
action on this issue.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks, Michael, for the question. 

You know, we can’t speak to that specifically.  But what I can say is,
you know, as you know, there are things that could be done by
legislation and there are things that the President can do
administratively under preexisting authority, which has been granted to
him by Congress. 

So, for example, when you think about SAVE and PSLF, these are programs
that have been created and improved pursuant to acts of Congress.  And
when you think about the authority in the Higher Education Act, you
know, that is a law that was passed by Congress and authority that was
delegated to the Secretary. 

And so, consistent with the President’s directives to us, to his team,
to do as much as we can within the law, you know, we are using that as
the basis for the announcements that we’re making, you know, today and
tomorrow.

MR. FERNÁNDEZ HERNÁNDEZ:  Thank you.  And our last question will come
from the CBS desk, if you could please identify yourself.

Q    Hi.  This is Bo Erickson. 

Just a clarification on the interest component here.  Is it $20,000 of
interest for everyone but then lower-income and middle-income borrowers
can have more than $20,000 forgiven in interest?  Can you just clarify
that?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Sure. 

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  That’s right.   
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  So —  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Oh, go ahead, \[senior administration
official\].

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  It’s — it’s $20,000 for everyone.  And
then, if you are in either the SAVE or the IDR plan and you have a low
or middle income — so, a hundred — up to $120,000 for an individual or
$240,000 for a married couple — then you can have all of your accrued
interest forgiven.

MR. FERNÁNDEZ HERNÁNDEZ:  Thank you.  And that’s all the time we have
today. 

The embargo time for this call and the materials will now be 5:00 a.m.
Eastern time — 5:00 a.m. Eastern time.  You all will receive a note from
us with embargoed materials and the corrected time.

Thank you, again, for joining us, and we look forward to hearing from
you tomorrow.  
  
7:02 P.M. EDT
