---
date: '2024-04-03'
modified_time: 2024-04-03 15:19:09-04:00
published_time: 2024-04-03 15:19:08-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/04/03/on-the-record-press-gaggle-by-white-house-national-security-communications-advisor-john-kirby-8/
tags: press-briefings
title: "On-the-Record Press Gaggle by White\_House National Security Communications\
  \ Advisor John\_Kirby"
---
 
10:08 A.M. EDT

MODERATOR:  Hi, everyone.  Thanks for joining.  Sorry we’re running a
little bit late.  Kirby was giving us a history lesson.

He has a few things here at the top, and then we’ll get through as many
questions as we can.

MR. KIRBY:  Good morning, everybody.  Thank you.  So just two things at
the top. 

First, I want to just take a moment to recognize both Croatia and
Albania, important NATO Allies that are now celebrating their 15th
anniversary as part of the Alliance.

Over the years, both countries have repeatedly demonstrated their
commitment to the Alliance through concrete commitments to its plans to
bolster European security, its missions further afield, and through
NATO’s partnership for peace.

Both countries have also stood as leaders in their region, showing other
countries of the Western Balkans that their aspiration of NATO
membership is achievable.

Finally, as you may have seen, the constitutional court in Uganda
partially overturned the Anti-Homosexuality Act today.  The United
States is deeply concerned about the remaining provisions of that act,
which undermine public health, human rights, and Uganda’s international
reputation.  And our concerns are particularly around this language that
imposes prison sentences for up to 20 years for, quote, “promoting
homosexuality,” unquote, and permitting a life sentence for same-sex
conduct.

As the President has said time and time again, no one should have to
live in constant fear nor be subjected to violence or discrimination. 
It’s just plain wrong. 

We will continue to work to advance respect for human rights for all the
people of Uganda and around the world. 

And with that, I think we can take some questions.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our first question will go to Steve with
Reuters.

Q    Hey there, John.  Why shouldn’t we conclude that this was, in fact,
a deliberate strike on the World Central Kitchen convoy?

MR. KIRBY:  Steve, why should you or why shouldn’t you?  I didn’t —

Q    Why should we not conclude that this was a deliberate strike?

MR. KIRBY:  Well, again, I think I would refer you to Israeli
authorities, Steve, to speak to what they have learned and — well, what
they have said and what they have learned about this.  I won’t speak for
IDF operations one way or the other.

As I said yesterday, they’re investigating it, and we have every
expectation — we do expect that they will do a thorough job, a swift
job, and that they’ll be transparent about it, what they find. 

So all I know is they’ve completed their preliminary investigation.  I
think you saw a comment from the Southern Command chief of staff
yesterday saying he’s received that and they’re reviewing it.  And it
will inform what will become a larger — what they’re calling an
independent investigation. 

So I think we need to let them investigate and let them read out their
conclusions.

Q    And just two more things, John.  Is the U.S. doing a separate
investigation rather than relying on the Israeli version of events?

MR. KIRBY:  No, we have no plans to conduct a separate investigation. 

Q    And lastly, has Jake Sullivan postponed his trip to Saudi Arabia? 
And if so, is this the reason why?

MR. KIRBY:  So, Jake was planning to head to the region this week.  That
trip has been postponed.  And when we have more on that to speak to,
we’ll do that.  He’s recuperating from a cracked rib, and that has
affected his ability to travel a bit.

Q    Cracked rib?

MR. KIRBY:  Cracked rib.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Aamer with the AP.

Q    Hi, John.  President Biden’s statement last night made clear that
he believes Israel has not done enough to protect aid workers, and
called it a major reason why distributing humanitarian aid has been so
difficult.  Will the President ask the Israeli government to take any
specific action to rectify what he’s really sort of identified as a core
issue? 

And more broadly, is there any sort of expected consequences for Israel
as a result of this incident?  Thank you. 

MR. KIRBY:  Well, again, I think we want to see the investigation, and
my answer to Steve stands.  We need to see what they find as a result of
this incident.  They have already admitted that that they conducted this
strike.  They have already publicly said that they’re at fault for this
strike.  And they’re working their way through the specific findings and
details.  And I think we need to let them finish that work and speak to
it themselves. 

So I’m not prepared at this point to speculate about anything we might
or might not do.  You know, we’re going to have to wait to see what the
investigation says. 

I will say a couple of things.  We are still supporting Israel’s ability
to defend itself against this still-viable threat.  And that’s going to
continue.

And then, I’m sorry, you had a question at the top that I think I blew
off.

Q    Just, specifically, if there is anything that the President would
like to see done differently, because the statement last night really
sort of identified that they haven’t done enough on protecting aid
workers.  So how do you fix that?

MR. KIRBY:  Of course — of course, we want to see them do things
differently to prevent civilian casualties.  Absolutely.  And that’s
been an ongoing conversation that we’ve been having with them for many
months, in terms of being more precise, being more targeted, being more
cautious. 

One of the reasons why we plan to have continued conversations with them
about Rafah is because we don’t believe that a major ground operation
against those Rafah battalions and — I’m sorry, those Hamas battalions
in Rafah — is the right approach.  We believe there’s another way to get
after that threat, and we want to share with them some of our views on
that. 

So, yes, of course we have and will continue to talk to them about how
to do things differently, how to do things more efficiently, how to do
things more safely, and certainly how to do things in a way that
minimizes damage to civilian infrastructure and, of course, civilian
lives.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to JJ with Bloomberg.

Q    Hey there.  On Nippon Steel and the Japanese prime minister’s visit
to the White House that’s coming up: John, can you share anything on
what we might expect from Kishida on the Nippon Steel deal?  Is the
White House hoping for any reassurances on that?  Or can you share
anything on what the President might share with Japan about the U.S.
Steel situation? Thanks. 

MR. KIRBY:  Yeah, JJ, I’m afraid I’m not going to be very satisfying to
you today.  I’m not going to get ahead of that meeting and those
discussions.  You’ve seen the President’s comments on the Nippon Steel
issue.  I can’t improve upon where his head is in terms of protecting
U.S. Steel workers and the American economy. 

But the President is very much looking forward to this state visit. 
There is an awful lot of important things to talk about with Prime
Minister Kishida.  Certainly, our two economies are on that agenda, and
I have no question that issues of economic — economy and trade will come
up. 

That said, there’ll be issues to talk about in terms of the security
environment, concerns about the DPRK, concerns about aggressive PRC
actions.  There’ll be things to talk about in terms of people-to-people
exchanges between our two countries.  And quite frankly, there’ll be
plenty of opportunities to talk about how we can continue not only our
bilateral cooperation with Japan but our trilateral cooperation between
Japan and South Korea. 

So, lots on the agenda.  Lots to talk about including, of course, how we
can both work together closely with the Philippines. 

So, there’s an awful lot there.  And I think I just don’t want to get
too far ahead of a particular item like the Nippon Steel thing.

Q    Thank you.  And then, just one other thing.  On Jake Sullivan’s
injury, can you say if this was just like a personal fall or something? 
Or was he harmed by someone?

MR. KIRBY:  No, this was not — so, yeah, the fact that he’s recovering
from this cracked rib is contributing to the postponement.  That’s point
one.  Point two is, this was a minor accident of his own.  It was not
caused by anybody.  It was not the result of a nefarious act or anything
like that. 

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Michael Shear with
the New York Times.

Q    Hey, John.  Thank you.  I was going to ask about Jake too.  But I
guess if there’s no more that you can tell us — it sounds like maybe
like a basketball or some kind of sports injury — but if anything else
would be helpful. 

But in the meantime, if I could ask about Ukraine.  There is a proposal
at NATO to have NATO take over leadership of the Ukraine working group
that coordinates the assistance — the military assistance to Ukraine,
apparently born out of both a concern of sort of a lack of U.S.
leadership, given the Ukraine funding tie-up in Congress, but also the
possibility of a return of Donald Trump next year. 

Does the U.S. support shifting that leadership over to NATO and the U.S.
sort of taking a backseat in directing that money?

MR. KIRBY:  Well, look, I’m not going to get ahead of some — what sounds
to me like some preliminary discussions there.  But amongst NATO Allies,
they can speak to this. 

What I can tell you, though, Mike, is that the Ukraine Defense Contact
Group has been critical in bringing together 50-some-odd countries to
contribute to Ukraine’s security assistance needs.  And that was really
an idea that was born from Secretary Austin and that he has convened now
more than a dozen times, really, the result of American convening power,
and an example of how President Biden has really revitalized our
leadership on the world stage to bring countries together to do this. 

We think it’s important.  And it is bigger than NATO.  It’s bigger than
the Alliance.  As I said, 50-some-odd countries around the world.  And
what brought them together was American leadership.  The President
believes that that leadership remains vital, remains important.  And
he’s confident that we’re going to be able to continue to demonstrate
that leadership through the contact group.

Q    So it sounds like you guys would not support shifting that
leadership.  Or am I reading too much?

MR. KIRBY:  Again, I’m not going to speculate about some hypothetical
conversations that some NATO Allies may or may not be having.

The contact group has been very, very effective.  We’re going to
continue to lead and convene it.  And we know that our leadership of
that contact group is valued, it’s important.  We get terrific feedback
from all the nations that are participating in it.

I want to just make two points.  Let me foot-stomp them.  First one,
I’ve already said, is that it is bigger than NATO.  It’s 50-some-odd
nations all around the world, including in the Indo-Pacific.  And what
brought them together was American leadership.  What’s keeping them
together is American leadership. 

And the second point I want to make is that NATO has been a part of that
process since the beginning.  Jens Stoltenberg, he’s attended every
single one of them, including the first one. 

So we certainly value the contributions of the Alliance proper but also
individual Alliance members in the contact group.  And we would
certainly expect that to continue. 

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Missy Ryan with the
Washington Post.

Q    Hi.  Thank you.  Just wanted to ask, John, if there’s any update to
the timing of the rescheduled in-person visit from the Israeli
delegation. 

And then ask you, looking ahead to the visit by the Iraqi prime
minister, are you all expecting any sort of finalization of the
mil-to-mil talks in terms of the — or announcement regarding a changed
U.S military posture in Iraq during that visit?

MR. KIRBY:  Thanks, Missy.  On the Israeli delegation, I think we’re
hoping to get an in-person meeting on the books next week.  We’ll have
more detail for you as we get closer to it.

On the prime minister’s visit, we very much see this as a great
opportunity to continue discussions with him and his team about the
counter-ISIS efforts in Iraq and what that needs to look like going
forward. 

I would not expect coming out of this visit that it’ll be a decision or
meeting in terms of, you know, there’ll be some sort of final conclusion
about what that posture looks like going forward.  But, absolutely, we
will spend time with him talking about what it needs to look like given
the threat that ISIS continues to pose both in Iraq and in Syria.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Weijia with CBS.

Q    Thank you, Sam.  And thank you, John.  Back to the humanitarian
strike, John.  Do you know whether any U.S.-supplied weapons or
resources were involved to carry out that strike?

MR. KIRBY:  I do not know the answer to that question.

Q    And if you don’t issue an investigation, as you said the U.S. would
not, how will you ever know?  And if you don’t ever know, how do you
answer to the families, including that of an American who was killed?

MR. KIRBY:  We expect the Israelis to conduct a thorough, comprehensive,
complete, and transparent investigation.  We look forward to finding out
the results of that investigation.  And we’ll move on from there.

But, my goodness, they just completed a preliminary investigation in,
you know, less than 48 hours.  And they’re working their way through
that, and that will inform a broader investigation.  And we’ve made
clear our expectations for the results of that investigation.  And I
don’t think it would behoove any of us to get ahead of it. 

Q    And have you set a deadline for Israel to complete that
investigation?

MR. KIRBY:  No, we have not.

Q    And an unrelated question.  Last night, President Biden received a
letter from an eight-year-old orphan in Rafah from Dr. Ahmad, who
attended the meeting last night.  Do you know if the President has had a
chance to read the letter and his response to that little girl?

MR. KIRBY:  I do not.  I’ll have to take that question. 

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to MJ Lee with CNN.

Q    Hey, John.  Just first on the postponed Jake Sullivan trip.  Is
this just that he is no longer going, or will other members of the
administration travel there, or are they already traveling there without
him?

MR. KIRBY:  No, there was going to be a small team that was going to
accompany Jake.  And so, nobody is going.  I mean, it was a purposeful
trip in that regard.  And again, his injury has contributed to the
delay.  And he looks forward to getting it back on schedule as soon as
possible. 

Q    Okay.  So the whole delegation, they are no longer going, but it
will presumably be rescheduled once he is feeling better? 

MR. KIRBY:  That is correct. 

Q    Okay.  And I was wondering, just back to the aid workers that were
killed, can you just help us understand what is stopping the
administration from saying the U.S. can no longer support Israel’s
current efforts to go after Hamas in the way that it is?  Not that the
U.S. no longer supports Israel but that it cannot support the current
war that it is waging, given that seven, eight workers, including an
American, are dead.  The President says he’s outraged.  And he was
pretty explicit last night in saying that Israel is entirely to blame
for their deaths. 

MR. KIRBY:  I guess I just have to challenge a little bit the premise of
the question, MJ.  We have been very clear with the Israelis privately —
and, my goodness, we’ve been clear publicly — that the way they are
prosecuting their operations is not always, in every case, the best way
to do that.  We have said there have been too many civilians killed.  We
have talked about the civilian infrastructure that’s been destroyed.  We
have been very clear about our concerns and objections over some
obstacles that have been put in the way of getting additional
humanitarian assistance in.  And nobody is working harder than Joe Biden
or this administration on trying to get a ceasefire in place so that we
can get the hostages out. 

So I just — I guess I’m just going to take issue with, again, the
premise of the question.  We have been exceedingly consistent and clear
with our expectations for the prosecution of these operations. 

Q    Just to be clear, so you are saying you think the administration
has already been clear to the Israelis that it does not support Israel’s
current efforts in Gaza, the way that it is currently waging this war?

MR. KIRBY:  We have been very clear with the Israelis on the some of the
specifics of their operations, some of the specifics regarding getting
assistance into Gaza.  And those conversations have happened privately
at various levels, including at the President’s level and certainly at
staff levels. 

Now, I want to make it clear that while we take issue with aspects of
how operations are being conducted — particularly like saying, quite
frankly, publicly, we don’t support a ground operation in Rafah — we
also continue to believe and continue to act on the belief that Israel
has a right to defend itself against a still-viable threat by Hamas. 
They still have every right and responsibility to their people to
eliminate that threat after the 7th of October.  And so, that support
for Israel continues.  No country should have to live next door to a
threat that is truly genocidal, as Hamas has been. 

So while we make no bones about the fact that we have certain issues
about some of the way things are being done, we also make no bones about
the fact that Israel is going to continue to have American support for
the fight that they’re in to eliminate the threat from Hamas.

Q    You said earlier that you would first need to see the results of
the investigation before you can speak to what actions the U.S. might
take after this incident.  You said yourself, though, that Israel has
already said, you know, it was their mistake, it was their fault.  And
we already know, of course, that seven people are dead.  So what more do
you think the administration could possibly learn from the
investigation?

MR. KIRBY:  I think the Israelis want to learn from the investigation. 
They want to learn exactly how it happened.  And it’s one thing to be
able to admit, and they have, that they perpetrated this attack and that
they — and that, obviously, it was not the intended result.  But they,
too, want to learn what decisions were made that led to this attack and
where the fault lies. 

And as I said yesterday, we firmly believe that if accountability needs
to be observed, then we want to see accountability observed for people
who may have — you know, who may have acted here inappropriately.  But
again, we don’t know that. 

So we need to let the investigation conclude.  We need to see what they
learn.  And we need to see, just as importantly, what they do about what
they’ve learned, what changes they’re willing to make, what
accountability they’re willing to observe.  We’re just not there yet. 
So we need to let them finish their work. 

In the meantime, we have made very clear, all the way up to the
President’s level, our outrage about this attack and the result of it,
of course, and our deep, deep concern about this particular operation.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Justin with ABC.

Q    Hey, good morning, Kirby.  Thanks for doing this.  The Human Rights
Watch director told ABC today that the U.S. could be legally complicit
in supplying weapons to countries that are blocking aid, speaking about
the war in Gaza.  She said, “If you’re helping another party commit
grave abuses against civilians, then you risk being complicit in those
abuses,” saying that’s “a matter of international law.”  Just wanted to
get your response to the director. 

MR. KIRBY:  I’m not an international lawyer.  I can tell you that we
share the concerns of so many groups out there about the humanitarian
situation in Gaza, which is why almost — well, not almost; actually,
from the beginning of this conflict — and then urging and pushing the
Israelis to do more to get humanitarian assistance in to allow the flow
into Gaza.  It’s why we’re doing airdrops.  It’s why we got a temporary
pier that’s on the way over there to be able to assist with maritime
loading of humanitarian assistance and getting that into Gaza. 

So we share the concerns over what’s going on inside Gaza with the
Palestinian people, and we’re doing everything we can to try to
alleviate that. 

It’s also why we continue to push for a ceasefire that will allow for
the hostages to get out and a period of calm for about six weeks so that
more humanitarian assistance can get in.

Again, I’m not a lawyer here, but I would also tell you, as I said
yesterday from the podium, the State Department continues to review
incidents as they arise.  And as I said yesterday, they haven’t found an
incident yet that has pointed to a violation of international
humanitarian law.  But they continue to do that work, as they should.

Q    And we also saw the Australian Prime Minister speak directly to
Prime Minister Netanyahu following the strike.  Should we expect
President Biden to do the same?  And if not, why isn’t he picking up the
phone to speak to Netanyahu if an American was killed in this strike?

MR. KIRBY:  The President, as you know, speaks routinely and as
appropriate with Prime Minister Netanyahu.  He has spoken to him many
times in the past since the 7th of October.  He will speak to him
again.  I don’t have a call to speak to or to preview at this time. 

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Asma with NPR.

Q    Hi there.  Thanks, Kirby.  I had (inaudible) questions.  Yesterday,
I know there were a couple of doctors who were at the White House,
meeting with the President, who’d recently been inside of Gaza.  And the
way they characterized their meeting was that they were — the first time
since October 7th that the President had heard from anybody who’s been
inside of Gaza.  And I wanted to assess: Is that accurate?  Had the
President, prior to yesterday, not spoken to any aid workers or anybody
else who had been inside of Gaza since October 7th?

MR. KIRBY:  Yeah, I’m going to have to take your question. 

MODERATOR:  We’re going to go on to our next question.  Morgan with
Semafor.

Q    Hey, John.  Thanks so much for doing this.  I have two questions. 
Just, first, on the (inaudible) earthquake in Taiwan.  I’m just
wondering how worried the White House is about the impact on the chip
supply chain and if there’s anything you’re doing to address those
concerns. 

And then secondly, I know you mentioned yesterday that the President and
President Xi talked about TikTok, and I was just wondering if you could
say how that came up on the call yesterday.  Did President Xi raise it? 
Is that something that President Biden raised?  Just a little more
detail there.

MR. KIRBY:  So, on the earthquake, I mean, our first and, frankly, our
only concern right now is for the safety and security of people in the
region who could be affected by the earthquake and its aftermath. 

And we’re in touch with authorities, as you might expect we would be. 
We certainly stand by to assist in any way that might be required.  But
that’s where our focus is right now, not on follow-on potential economic
impact one way or the other, or for high tech.  Our concern is for the
lives and livelihoods.  And our thoughts and prayers are with everybody
who was affected by the earthquake.  We’ll continue to monitor it as we
have overnight.

On TikTok, President Xi raised the issue, and President Biden responded
to the concerns that President Xi raised.  And as I said yesterday at
the podium, he responded by making it clear to President Xi that this
was not about a ban on TikTok, that this was about divestiture, that
this was about preserving the data security of the American people and
our own national security interests.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Serena with
Scripps.

Q    Hey, John.  Thanks so much for doing this.  I wanted to follow up
on last night’s meeting at the White House.  Are you going to provide a
readout of that in any way? 

And are there any plans for the President to speak to the American aid
worker that was — family that was killed?

MR. KIRBY:  I don’t know about a readout for the Iftar meeting last
night.  I’d refer you to White House Communications on that.  That’s not
something that would be handled by the National Security Council.

And, shoot, I forgot your second one.  I meant to write it down and I
didn’t.  What was your second one?

Q    Oh, the family of the American aid worker. 

MR. KIRBY:  Oh, yes.  As I said yesterday, the State Department has made
initial contact with the family.  I think you can understand this is a
delicate moment for them.  And, you know, they did express a desire for
some time to process the news.  And so, I think we’re going to give them
that time.  But obviously, first and foremost, they have the President’s
and the First Lady’s condolences. 

And as he has in the past, when it’s appropriate, he’ll make the
necessary, you know, outreach.  But again, right now, the family is
going through a very difficult time, and we want to respect their — we
want to respect their privacy and, quite frankly, their grieving
process. 

Q    Are there any concerns that that strike on the aid workers are
going to impact negatively the ceasefire and hostage negotiations that
are ongoing?  Is there an update on the proposal that was made to Hamas?

MR. KIRBY:  No, I don’t have an update for you.  I don’t know and I
wouldn’t anticipate any particular impact on those discussions as a
result of the strike yesterday.  But I also, at the same time, don’t
have, again, any progress to report to you.  We’re still working hard at
this, trying to get this deal in place.  And we’re going to — we’re
going to stay at that work.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Neria with Israel
Channel 13.

Q    Hi, Admiral.  Thank you so much for doing this again.  I’m
wondering about the meeting — the virtual meeting between the Israelis
and Sullivan and the rest of the team here in the U.S. about Rafah.  I
do understand that there are a few major gaps between Israel and the
U.S., mainly regarding the evacuation of the civilians, but other issues
as well.  Can you tell us a little bit about that?

MR. KIRBY:  No.  (Laughs.)  I don’t think that would be useful for me to
do in this particular setting, to lay out their views versus our views. 
The big muscle movements are the same, Neria, which is that we don’t
support a ground operation in Rafah, and we still believe that whatever
the Israelis decide to do about Rafah, they’ve got to factor in the 1.5
million refugees that are there. 

And we were grateful for the opportunity to have that virtual
discussion.  As I said earlier, hopefully in the next week, sometime in
the next week, we hope to do an in-person meeting to continue that
discussion. 

I would look at what happened in the virtual discussion this week as
sort of the beginning of that conversation, the beginning of that
process of talking to them about what Rafah looks like now and what
their intentions are for operations against those Hamas battalions that
are still there. 

Q    And do you have any news about hostages deal, the negotiations?

MR. KIRBY:  No.  As I said to the previous question, I don’t have an
update for you, except to say that we continue to work very, very hard
at it. 

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Danny with AFP.

Q    Hi there.  Thanks for doing this again.  Just going back to the
strike on the aid workers in Gaza.  I mean, the statement last night
from the President was one of his strongest yet, and he said, you know,
that his rhetoric has been getting tougher and tougher on Israel about
this kind of thing.  But they just don’t seem to be listening.  I mean,
this must be a source of frustration for the President, must it not?

MR. KIRBY:  I think you could sense the frustration in that statement
yesterday.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Nadia.

Q    Good morning.  Thank you for doing this.  Just a follow-up on what
happened on the incident with the World Central Kitchen. 

John, you said that you’re waiting for the results of the investigation
to conclude, but can you give us an example of when Israel, in the last
six months, investigated any incidents and held anybody accountable,
whether civilians carrying white flags were killed, whether civilians at
the food trucks were killed, whether mass bodies or mass graves that are
being reported and not investigated? 

Many people believe the reason the Israelis admitted this time is
because they caught red-handed because the workers were international
members of the World Central Kitchen.  And their government is able to
tell that it was an Israeli rocket, and Israelis cannot just basically
cloud it and say, “Maybe we don’t know, maybe it’s crossfire, maybe it’s
Hamas.” 

So how can you say with certainty that all these incidents, that could
be by mistake, and yet you don’t have anybody on the ground — you have
no U.S. intelligence on the ground — and you always seem to take the
Israeli point of view as a fact?

MR. KIRBY:  Yeah, look, Nadia, I mean, that’s not even really a
question, to be honest with you.  That is a — that’s a statement that
you just made.  And I understand where you’re coming from. 

I don’t think you can look at what we’ve been saying, what we’ve been
doing, or even the President’s statement last night, and say that we’ve
somehow gone easy on Israel in every regard. 

Now, you can talk to the Israelis about their individual events; you
seem to have reached conclusions about all of them yourself.  So I
recommend that you talk to the Israelis about these incidents and see
for yourself what their answers are for them. 

They have investigated some of these events in the past, and they have —
as I’ve said from the podium, they have taken actions in certain regards
and in certain ways to limit and to try to be more mindful of civilian
casualties.  Is it enough? Absolutely not.  It’s not enough.  And the
President said that last night in his statement; there’s been too many
civilian casualties.  And the President said in his statement last night
that he’s outraged about this attack. 

And I have said myself, today and yesterday, that we’re going to see
what the investigation says, and then we’ll — you know, we’ll make
decisions as a result of that. 

But I don’t know how differently to put it.  Israel has a right to
defend itself.  Maybe not everybody believes that, but they do.

Q    Oh, I think —

MR. KIRBY:  And maybe not everybody believes — wait a second.  Maybe not
everybody believes that they’re living next to a genocidal threat, but
they are. 

And so, we’re going to continue to support them.  No country should have
to live like that.  No country should have to be attacked, like they
were on the 7th of October, with 1,200 people slaughtered.

At the same time, as a modern military and a democracy, they have
obligations to the innocent people of Gaza.  And they have not always
met those obligations. 

And the United States, more than any other nation — and you can’t name
me another nation, Nadia — that hasn’t also put it directly to the
Israelis about concerns about how they have not allowed more
humanitarian assistance again, about how they have to be more careful
about civilian casualties.  You name me another leader that has been
more direct and more consistent than President Biden and this
administration. 

So, again, I’m sorry, I’m just going to have to take issue with the
premise of your statement.  We are working very closely with them.  We
will continue to work closely with them to make sure they can defend
themselves but also that they do it in a way that is in keeping with the
highest standards of the law of armed conflict. 

Q    John, I just want to put it on the record: Neither me or any of my
colleagues ever question the right of Israel to defend itself.  That’s
for the record.  So I just wanted to tell you that our questions are
always about the methods, not about the right to defend — Israel’s right
to defend itself.  Just want to make that clear.

MR. KIRBY:  And my response, Nadia, is that we’re concerned about the
methods too.  I don’t know how we can be more clear.  Every single day
we’re talking about the way this war is being prosecuted.  And it’s
important to us; it matters how they do this.  And that is why we are
having these tough conversations with them.  And that is why you’ve
heard — you saw it for yourself in the statement that the President
issued, you know, his outrage, his frustration over this particular
attack as it reflects a culmination of similar events.  I said yesterday
it’s not the first time that this has happened.  And so, yes, we’re
frustrated by this.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Our next question will go to Alex with Politico.

Q    Yeah, thanks, John.  So just, I guess, to put an overall cap on
this, it sounds like the administration will not change its approach to
Israel after the strike; it’s going to continue as is, the same sort of
criticisms and the same sort of

support.  So there’s that.   

MR. KIRBY:  Well, wait.  Hang on just second now.

Q    Go ahead.  Go ahead.

MR. KIRBY:  What I said was: We are still supporting their right to
defend themselves, and we’re going to continue to do that.  We’re also
going to see what the results of the investigation is.  I’m not going to
get ahead of decisions that haven’t been made yet.

Q    Okay.  Gotcha.  On the Biden-Xi call, did they discuss anything
about the plans to have the trilateral patrols of the South China Sea
with the Philippines and Japan?

MR. KIRBY:  No.

Q    Okay.  And last bit.  Did the strike complicate any efforts by the
administration to recruit that aid partner to distribute more aid into
Gaza from the temporary pier?

MR. KIRBY:  What aid partner are you speaking about, Alex?

Q    Or is the U.S. trying to — isn’t the U.S. trying to recruit
somebody to help bring the aid to sort of that last mile?  Or do I have
that wrong?

MR. KIRBY:   Oh, okay.  I’m sorry, I didn’t understand your question. 

I don’t know of any effect on those efforts at this early time, Alex. 
You know, I know that Chef Andrés said he was going to stop for a
while.  We know the World Food Program has said that too.  But we’re
still discussing the modalities of — well, the maritime effort to get
humanitarian assistance in and what that’s going to look like.  And I
think, you know, we’re just — it’s just too soon after the strike to
know what sort of larger strategic impact this is going to have.  

We obviously are going to do everything we can to work towards the
continued delivery of humanitarian assistance at an increased level.  So
while we certainly understand why some aid organizations would have
qualms about this — certainly within their rights to do that, given what
happened; no question about it — but it’s not going to stop or lessen
our efforts to do what we can to increase the flow of aid.  That’s,
again, while our airdrops continue, while we’re working on this
temporary pier, all that is indicative of our effort to try to increase
the flow. 

And I want to come back, if I can, to foot-stomping that that’s why
we’re working so hard on this temporary ceasefire — to get some
security, some calm in place, not only so that the hostages can move
safely home and out but so that more aid can get in and around. 

One of the challenges of humanitarian assistance — and there are many —
is, in fact, the combat operations themselves.  It’s a war zone.  And
it’s difficult to move trucks around inside a combat zone and
particularly a confined urban environment like that.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  I think we have time for one more question, so
we’ll go to James Rosen. 

Q    Samantha, thank you.  Admiral, thank you.  Thank you both, as
always.  Since we hear and see so little of each other these days, I was
hoping you might indulge three questions from me, in keeping with the
multiple-question format employed by some of the reporters on the call. 
I have in mind three different topics.  At least two of them can be
addressed through simple yes-or-no answers. 

First, on the Mideast, is it the assessment of NSC that the airstrikes
the U.S. conducted earlier this year against the Houthis and the Islamic
Resistance in Iraq succeeded in establishing deterrence in the region?

MR. KIRBY:  Well, what we believe is that these attacks have definitely
degraded Houthi capabilities.  Have they eliminated them?  No.  And the
Houthis still conduct attacks. 

I want to make it clear though, at the front, James — and you don’t have
to look any further than the Secretary of Defense, who made this more
clear than I — this is about, and has been from the beginning, about
taking away capability from the Houthis.  That’s the purpose of it.

Q    Second question.  Can you confirm that no facet or component of the
national security apparatus, including but not limited to investigations
on masking or surveillance in any form, is presently trained or focused
on any current American political campaign?

MR. KIRBY:  I am not sure how to answer that question.  Are you
suggesting or you’re asking —

Q    I’ll repeat it, if that would help.

MR. KIRBY:  — is the intelligence community spying on a political
candidate?

Q    Correct.  Can you confirm that no facet or component of the
national security apparatus is presently trained or focused on any
current American political campaign?

MR. KIRBY:  This is a question beyond the NSC’s purview.  But just to
put a fork in it, there’s no spying on a political candidate. 

Q    Lastly, on TikTok, which examples should Americans regard as a
model for them to follow: that of the Biden administration, which has
banned TikTok from federal devices, or that of the Biden campaign, which
makes active use of TikTok?

MR. KIRBY:  The President has been very clear about this.  Because of —

Q    I don’t think it’s very clear, John.  I think it’s very confused
messaging.  

MR. KIRBY:  Well, so if you just let me finish, maybe we can help clear
this up.

TikTok’s ownership by ByteDance gives us pause and reason to be
concerned about the security of data on that application and the use of
that data by a company that has close ties to the Chinese Communist
Party.

We don’t want to ban the application.  We want divestiture of the
ownership of the company so that Americans, and certainly inside the
national security establishment, we can take a measure of comfort that
that data is not going to be mishandled.  That is very consistent. 
That’s what we’ve been doing. 

I’m not going to speak for the campaign.  I can only speak for the
National Security Council and speak for the President in the context of
the National Security Council.  And from that perspective, we have been
nothing but consistent. 

Q    Well, can’t you understand how Americans might be confused when
they see a chief executive who declares the use of this platform a
national security problem, and a candidate, in the very same person, who
makes active use of that platform?  You can understand why Americans
might be confused about that, can’t you?

MR. KIRBY:  I never make the mistake of trying to speak for the American
people or trying to claim that I understand what they are or are not
confused about. 

All I can tell you — and I’m not confused about this — is that there are
significant national security concerns about that application on
government devices, which is why we’re not allowed to use it on
government devices. 

And number two, that is why the President continues to want to see a
divestiture of the company so that it’s not owned by ByteDance, so that
the Chinese Communist Party is not in control of the data that TikTok is
able to assemble on its users. 

And I think that that — there’s reassurance there if, in fact, we can
move towards that divest issue. 

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  And as always, if we weren’t able to get to you,
hit up the distro and we’ll try to get back to you as quick as possible.
Thanks, everyone.  
  
10:51 A.M. EDT

  
 
