---
date: '2024-04-23'
published_time: 2024-04-23 15:53:21-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/04/23/press-gaggle-by-deputy-press-secretary-andrew-bates-and-national-security-communications-advisor-john-kirby-en-route-tampa-fl/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Gaggle by Deputy Press Secretary Andrew Bates and National Security\
  \ Communications Advisor John Kirby En Route Tampa,\_FL"
---
 
12:46 P.M. EDT

MR. BATES:  I have a few announcements at the top, then Admiral Kirby is
going to take questions.  Nobody fall asleep while we talk, please. 

Yesterday, the President took a major step to strengthen privacy
protections of patients as part of his efforts to protect access to
reproductive healthcare in the face of extreme attacks by Republican
elected officials.

As the President said yesterday, “No one should have their medical
records used against them, <s>by</s> their doctor, or their loved ones
just because they sought or received lawful reproductive healthcare. 
Privacy and confidentiality have always been a cornerstone of
high-quality healthcare.”

But now, in the wake of the Supreme Court’s decision to overturn Roe v.
Wade, a decision made possible by the former President, women and their
families live in fear that their deeply personal medical information
will be disclosed without their permission and used against them.

Patient privacy is not the only thing under attack as a result of the
overturning of Roe.  Twenty-one extreme state abortion bans are in
effect — including in Florida, where an even more dangerous ban will
take effect next week.  More than 27 million women of reproductive age
now live in states with abortion bans.  Over 380 state bills restricting
access to abortion care were introduced last year.  IVF is under
attack.  Contraception access is under attack.  Doctors and nurses are
threatened with jail time for providing the care they are trained to
provide.  And women are turned away from emergency rooms and being
denied healthcare and lifesaving care.

Tomorrow in the courts, the administration will fight to defend a
woman’s ability to access that emergency care under federal law.

President Biden believes that healthcare decisions should be made by
women and their doctors, not politicians.  His administration will
continue to defend a woman’s ability to access emergency care under
federal law, fight for reproductive rights, and call on Congress to
restore the protections of Roe v. Wade into federal law so that women in
every state can access the care that they need. 

Next, we are excited to announce that this year, President Biden will
deliver commencement addresses at Morehouse College on May 19th and at
the United States Military Academy on May 25th.  The President looks
forward to speaking to graduates on their special day and thanking their
parents, friends, and loved ones for all of their support. 

He is especially grateful for the opportunity to address West Point
graduates as their Commander-in-Chief and thank them for serving and
defending their nation. 

Lastly, today, we are passing the great state of North Carolina, home to
the reigning ACC men’s basketball champions, the NC State Wolfpack, who
just celebrated both our women’s and men’s basketball teams winning
their NCAA Regional Championships and advancing to the Final Four.  Go
Pack. 

Q    Is this why you took the gaggle today, so you could say that? 
(Laughter.)

MR. BATES:  No comment.  (Laughter.) 

And with that, I’ll turn it over to Admiral Kirby.

MR. KIRBY:  I would just note that we’re going to Tampa, home of the
Buccaneers and the University of South Florida.

Just a couple of notes at the top here, if you don’t — if you’ll indulge
me. 

I wanted to take a minute to highlight the administration’s efforts to
advance U.S. priorities in the Western Hemisphere and to deliver on the
President’s affirmative agenda for a more prosperous, democratic, and
secure region. 

You’ll recall that the President laid out this vision for the Americas
Partnership for Economic Prosperity, back in June of ’22, a new regional
framework to deepen economic integration and cooperation in our
hemisphere.  The President recognized that a stronger economic
partnership is fundamental to overcoming our national security
challenges, whether that’s economic security, climate change, or
irregular migration. 

In November, during the inaugural Americas Partnership Leaders’ Summit,
President Biden and his counterparts agreed that ministers would meet
annually across three tracks to build a more competitive and resilient
regional economy.  So, just last week, Secretary Yellen hosted all the
finance ministers of the Americas Partnership countries in D.C. to take
stock of the Inter-American Development Bank, or IDB, progress on supply
chain competitiveness across three critical industries: semiconductors,
medical supplies, and clean energy, including critical minerals. 

The U.S. Development Finance Corporation and the IDB Invest will also —
also expanded the Americas Partnership platform and Innovative Joint
Investment Framework that has identified about $3 billion in potential
infrastructure investments in the Americas alone.  By working closely
with the IDB to finance high-standard infrastructure and resilient
critical supply chains, we are making real progress under the Americas
Partnership for the people of the Americas — to put it in the
President’s words, to make the Western Hemisphere the most economically
competitive region in the world. 

With that, I’ll take some questions.

Q    On Ukraine, it’s looking more unlikely that Ukraine will be able to
win the war this year.  So, I’m wondering what they have to show and
accomplish with the $61 billion in aid that they’ll soon get to ensure
that Washington, particularly Congress, continues to support their
efforts?

MR. KIRBY:  I think — I — it’s critical that — I mean, they’re under the
gun right now, literally and figuratively, as the Russians are advancing
in the East — in the Donbas — and as the Russians continue to pelt their
critical infrastructure and their defense industry with missiles and
drones. 

So, it’s not so much about laying markers for them of what they have to
accomplish on a certain scale or date.  It’s about making sure that as
soon as we can get supplemental funding in place, once the Senate passes
it, we can get them the kinds of critical materials and weapons they
need now to start making a difference on the battlefield.  It’s not
going in the Ukrainians’ favor in the Donbas, certainly not in elsewhere
in the country. 

Mr. Putin thinks he can play for time, so we’ve got to try to make up
some of that time.  So, what you’re going to see — as soon as the
President can get the bill on his desk and he can sign it, you’re going
to see us provide the kinds of capabilities they need most right now.

Over time, as we get into the summer, into the fall, we’ll be able to
continue to have conversations with the Ukrainians about what their
longer-term strategy is for pushing back Russian aggression and then —
and then tailoring the packages to meet those needs.  Does that make
sense?

Q    Right.  Right.  And I mean, the administration has asked for this
extra money for a long time since — dating back to October.  So, has
that delay in getting aid caused actual damage on the ground in Ukraine?

MR. KIRBY:  Oh, my goodness, yes.  Oh, yeah.  No question about it.

When the Russians are launching these massive drone and missile
assaults, they know darn well that the Ukrainians are only going to be
able to shoot so many of them down and some of them are going to get
through.  So, part of it is: How much damage can I cause on the ground
with the hits, but also, how can I help — how can I make the Ukrainians
expend —

(Mr. Kirby bumps a microphone.)  Sorry, I know I — it’s my hands. 
(Laughter.)

— expend munitions in the air to decrease their inventory, knowing, as
Putin has for the last several months, they can’t get them replaced?

The second thing is, just take a look at the — the ground in the in the
e- — in the Donbas area, in the eastern Ukraine coming out of Avdiivka. 
I won’t say every day, but most days since Avdiiv- — Avdiivka fell, the
Russians have slowly but successfully taken more ground from the
Ukrainians and pushed them back against their first, second, and, in
some places, their third line of defense. 

And as they push forward, of course, they’re causing infrastructure
damage; they’re — they’re shelling cities; you know, they’re forcing
people to flee; I mean, and they’re — obviously, the Ukrainians are
taking casualties in this fight. 

So, yes, the short — it’s a long answer, but the short answer is: Yes,
there absolutely has been damage in the last several months.

Q    Quickly, is the President planning to sign the foreign aid bill
this week?  Is he hoping he can do that this week?  And once he does
that, how soon can you get weapons to Ukraine?

MR. KIRBY:  Yeah, I mean, obviously, it’s going to depend on the
Senate.  We’re hoping that the Senate can move this up to the
President’s desk here this week.  We’ll see what they can do.  But I can
assure you that once it gets to his desk, he will sign it as quickly as
possible. 

I can also assure you that quickly on the heels of that, you will see
the first security assistance package going forward to Ukraine.

Q    What kind of weapons do they need the most right now?

MR. KIRBY:  I won’t get into previewing the next package.  I don’t think
I want to do that. 

But kind of like what we’ve been talking about here, clearly they need
air defense capabilities — interceptor missiles — because those drones
and missiles are not stopping. 

They need artillery.  155, in particular, is of great need to the
commanders on the ground as the Russians keep going forward.  So, you’ve
got to have ammunition. 

I think they could use some — they would tell you there will be some
other long-range capabilities, like — like HIMARS.  And small arms and
ammunition is always in great demand.  And, you know, perhaps maybe some
— some vehicles — track vehicles, wheeled vehicles, that kind of thing. 
We’ll have to see.

But in the la- — you know, since October — and then our last package was
December — so, since — really since December, since the last package,
we’ve not been able to give them any of these things, and they’re all
critical.

Q    John, and then one on Rafah.  When is the next round or Rafah
talks?  And do you expect that to be in person?

MR. KIRBY:  I don’t ha- — I don’t know.  As you know, we just met with —
virtually —

Q    Yes, yes.

MR. KIRBY:  — a few days ago. 

Q    Yeah.

MR. KIRBY:  I don’t know what the schedule portends for another one.

I want to remind you that these talks are being done in the context of
what we call the “SCG” — the strategic coordination group.  So, there’s
an already existing process for this.  We expect to keep using that
process going forward. 

Obviously, if we have something on schedule, we’ll talk to you about it.

Q    Admiral, do you have anything to confirm about whether the
President met with AOC yesterday about Gaza?  And if so, what was his
message?  He suggested that in the remarks.

MR. KIRBY:  I know they had a chance to talk on the sidelines of the
climate event yesterday.  I don’t know what the topics were.  I don’t
know how much they got into what’s going on in — in Gaza.

Q    Following-up on — on Gaza.  There have been these reports of mass
graves near the Nasser Hospital.  Does the White House have any response
to that?

MR. KIRBY:  Just seeing these reports.  Obviously,

scenes of mass graves in general are deeply concerning.  But I don’t
have anything that I, you know, can confirm the veracity of those — of
those reports. 

I think nobody wants to see hospitals become conflict zones.  Nobody
wants to see fighting in hospitals and around hospitals.  Hamas
unfortunately uses hospitals as command centers, places to store
equipment, house their fighters, unfortunately.  I mean, this is the
kind of enemy that the IDF is up against. 

But, again, that doesn’t mean we want to see hospitals as warzones or
places where armed conflict is going on.

Q    There are some reports that some of the bodies that were found at
the mass grave had shots to the head and looked like they might have
been executed.

MR. KIRBY:  Again, I — I’ve just seen these —

Q    Is that something —

MR. KIRBY:  — reports like you are.  I don’t have anything —

Q    Is that something U.S. officials would want to investigate or want
Israel to investigate?

MR. KIRBY:  I wouldn’t expect a U.S. investigation.  But, obviously,
we’re seeing these reports the same as you are — deeply, deeply
concerning.  I’m not in a position to confirm them.  But we’ll certainly
talk to our Israeli counterparts about it and see what they know.  But I
just can’t go into more detail on that.

Q    What about —

Q    Do you have any concerns these repeated meetings that the former
President is having with foreign leaders?  And are they complicating the
administration’s foreign policy?

MR. KIRBY:  I’ll — I’ve got to stay out of anything about the campaign
or what the <s>foreign</s> \[former\] President is doing or not. 

I can only tell you that President Biden is focused on the discussions
he’s having with foreign leaders all around the world — continues to do
that — about a range of issues that are important to our national
security.  That includes Gaza and what’s going on in — in the Middle
East, as well as — as well as Ukraine. 

He’s very comfortable and confident that he has those relationships and
has the ability to have those communications.  You saw he called
President Zelenskyy just yesterday to talk about what we anticipate to
be our continued support for them going forward. 

Q    Do you have a comment on Russia denying — rejecting Evan’s appeal
against pretrial detention?

MR. KIRBY:  I wish I could say we were surprised by this.  But it’s just
another example of the sham process that the Russians are running here. 

Evan is a reporter.  He’s not a spy.  He’s not a criminal.  He needs to
come home with his family right now.

Q    Any response to the reports that Israel has failed to provide
evidence that several members of UNRWA are militants and part of Hamas?

MR. KIRBY:  Yeah.  So, we welcome the results of this report and
strongly support the recommendations in the report.  And we’re going to
be working with UNRWA and other — and the U.N., as well as other aid
organizations and partners to advance those recommendations into real
progress.

And, again, as I’ve said before, UNRWA needs to take this seriously. 
This report certainly conveys that — that it has been taken seriously. 
But what matters now is the actions that they take to conduct reforms
and improvements so that — so that this kind of thing can’t happen
again.  It doesn’t erase — nor should it — from anybody the good work
that UNRWA is still doing on the ground.  And in many cases, they’re the
main — the main effort to distribute aid and assistance.

Now, obviously, if you — in terms of our funding of UNRWA, that is still
suspended.  We’re going to have to see real progress here before that
gets changed.  And, of course, we’re going to have to follow the law of
the land as well.  But we are working hard.

And you saw in this — in the supplemental package that hopefully will
get to the President’s desk — I mean, there is some $10 billion for
humanitarian assistance, to include Gaza and other regions too.  And we
will continue to work with other aid organizations as appropriate to
make sure that the — that the people of Gaza get the support that they
need.

Q    I just had a quick question on Iran, considering we haven’t heard
from you for a few days.  I mean, did the U.S. lobby Israel successfully
for a smaller-scale response against Iran?  And, I mean, do you think
the spate of retaliation is –is over?

MR. KIRBY:  I — I’m just not going to be able to offer a comment on that
one way or the other.  The President has been very, very consistent
throughout this conflict.  We don’t want to see it escalate.  Everything
he’s been doing since the 7th of October has been designed to make sure
Israel can defend itself — we certainly proved that to a fare-thee-well
a week ago — but also that everything we’re doing to try to keep it from
becoming a wider regional war. 

And everything he’s done, from the additional military resources to the
diplomacy — the personal diplomacy, has been designed to do that.  I
think I’ll just leave it at that.

Q    Did Israel give the U.S. a heads up, I mean, during the call that
you had about this attack?  And did the President approve the attack?  I
mean, can you at least speak about what — what was discussed on that
call?

MR. KIRBY:  Again, this is a sovereign country you’re talking about. 
And — and I think we’ll let them speak to their military operations one
way or the other.  But we have and will continue to have routine
communications with our Israeli counterparts, including in the IDF. 

But I think I’ll leave it at that.  Nice try, though.

Q    Given Seung Min’s question that, you know, it’s been since October
that you’ve been asking for the supplemental package for Ukraine, I
mean, have you guys kind of started to figure out, you know, if you do
need more money, what is the political path look like in the future,
given —

MR. KIRBY:  We passed this —

Q    — how much of a battle this was?

MR. KIRBY:  I think we’re — right now, we’re just focused on getting
this to the President’s desk so we can sign it — so he can sign it and
we can get that aid going. 

Q    But does there need to be a kind of change of approach, given the
way the Republicans — so many Republicans have been kind of reluctant to
pass this?

MR. KIRBY:  Change in approach?

Q    Like, is there a different — I mean, you’ve mentioned kind of how
much money goes to members’ districts.  That didn’t move many people. 
You know, you’ve tried a different — a lot of different tactics to get
more people on board.  I mean —

MR. KIRBY:  I think we just have to continue to make the case — and
you’ll hear — you’ll hear the President will continue to do this — that
supporting Ukraine is actually supporting our national security
interest.  Standing up to Putin and not letting him take that country,
which he still wants to do, is good for the United States — our national
security there in the region, but also elsewhere.  It’s certainly good
for our allies and partners.  And obviously, more importantly, it’s good
for the people of Ukraine, who are doing the — all the fighting here —
the fighting and dying.

So, I think you’ll just continue to hear the President make the case for
why supporting Ukraine is the right thing to do. 

Q    Are U.S. forces within reach of Iranian proxies on heightened alert
since the attacks?

MR. KIRBY:  I would just say we’re always vigilant to the threats,
particularly in Iraq and Syria, to our troops.  As you know, they’re
there for a counter-ISIS mission — still an important mission.  And
force protection is always at the top of the list of the military
commanders that they report to.  That’s no different today.

And that force protection regimen changes as appropriate to the threat. 
And that’s really as far as I go.

Q    Are you taking any new steps since last week?

MR. KIRBY:  Force protection is always a concern.  We take steps as we
need to appropriately to the threat, and the threat does change from
time to time.

Q    Admiral, just one on oil.  Can you put a finer point on whether the
U.S. has asked the Saudis to reboost their crude oil production?

MR. KIRBY:  I don’t have anything on that one.  I can take that question
and ask.  I don’t know.

Okay.  All right.  I’ll give you back to Andrew.

Q    Thank you.

MR. BATES:  Thank you.  All right. 

Q    On the Morehouse commencement.  There’s already reports that there
are some faculty concerned about the President’s planned appearance
there at commencement.  There is supposed to be a meeting on Thursday
for concerned members to air out their thoughts, and I was wondering if
the White House had any response to what some of the faculty at the
school may be expressing. 

MR. BATES:  Like I mentioned, the President is proud that he was invited
by Morehouse.  He’s eager to speak there.  Commencements are about the
graduates, their families, and their loved ones; about celebrating the
accomplishments of the graduates; and then, in the case of West Point
graduates, thanking them for their service defending our nation. 

I’m not going to weigh in on processes happening at Morehouse, but he
looks forward to going there and celebrating with the graduates.

Q    And also you and the — you — speaking on behalf of the White House
and also the President had issues — had talked about condemn — or had
condemned the — the antisemitism we’re seeing from college campuses and
I’m — or in these — some of these protests.  And I’m wondering if the
White House is doing more.  Are you reaching out to some of these
schools offering sort of support or anything along those lines as these
— as these situations continue?

MR. BATES:  As — as you mentioned and as all of you covered in the
President’s Passover statement, he directly addressed the vile comments
that circulated over the weekend with a call to action, saying that we
must speak out against the alarming surge of antisemitism because
silence is complicity. 

Like we said, while every American has the right to peaceful protest,
calls for violence and physical intimidation targeting Jewish students
and the Jewish community are blatantly antisemitic, unconscionable, and
dangerous, and they have no place on any college campus or anywhere in
the United States of America.  Echoing the rhetoric of terrorist
organizations, especially in the wake of the worst massacre committed
against the Jewish people since the Holocaust, is despicable. 

We are, of course, monitoring these situations closely.  There — there
has been alarming rhetoric that we want to be sure we are meeting our
responsibility to speak out against.  We will continue to do that. 

And that is a commitment the President made in the first-ever National
Strategy to Counter Antisemitism.  That is something he feels very
strongly about.  You all remember that he made the decision to run
because of the antisemitic bile that was chanted in Charlottesville. 
And that is something he will continue to do.

Q    Andrew, quickly, on the President’s comments yesterday.  When he
said he’s set up a program to deal with the antisemitic protests, what
was he specifically referring to?  Is this the work that the ED is
doing?  I mean, and — and — because they were set up in November to deal
with this.  What has been done so far?  What — you know, are they really
leading charge on this issue for the — for the administration?

MR. BATES:  He was highlighting the National Strategy to Counter
Antisemitism that we are aggressively implementing.  That involves
monitoring for statements of concern and then making judgments about
when to speak out forcefully.  We saw a number of comments that crossed
the line — comments that were grotesque, that were violent.  And that is
a commitment we’re going to continue to meet.  You all have seen us —

Q    But what — what’s the program he was refereeing to, though?  What
is the program he was referring to that he has set up?

MR. BATES:  He’s talking about his National Strategy to Counter
Antisemitism. 

Q    Okay. 

What about the work that the Department of Education was charged to do
in November to address these antisemitic protests around the country? 
What have they done?  What are they planning to do?  Are they really
leading charge on this?  You know, who else from the White House — to
follow up on Seung Min’s question — you know, is reaching out to these
groups?

MR. BATES:  The Department of Education does have an integral role to
play in this.  I would refer you to them for more specific details.  I
know that there is an investigation they are doing, so I just want to be
careful about that in this kind of a context. 

But I do just want to reiterate that when we see revolting, dangerous,
antisemitic comments, that is something that we are going to speak out
against in very clear terms.  We watch for those kinds of remarks. 

This is important: standing up for the dignity of every single human
being.  Antisemitism is a moral crisis, and so we are using multiple
arms of the administration to make sure we are pushing back against it
because there has been a very concerning spike in recent years when it
comes to antisemitic language and violence. 

Q    Andrew, I mean, the protests that have been going on in Columbia;
Yale, yesterday, more than 40 students were arrested.  I mean, these are
protests that are also calling for the President to act on things.  They
want their universities to act when it comes to their stance on Israel
and Gaza.

I mean, there’s more protests popping up at UMD, UNC Chapel Hill,
Vanderbilt, Michigan.  This is not something that’s going away, and it’s
only growing at this point.  So, is that something that the President is
tracking, especially because many of these students who are protesting
have a message for him? 

MR. BATES:  He is, of course, aware of the protests.  We know that this
is a painful moment for many communities.  We respect that, and we
support every American’s right to peacefully protest.  That’s something
that we have been consistent about. 

But as I said, when we witness calls for violence; physical
intimidation; hateful, antisemitic rhetoric, those are unacceptable.  We
will denounce them.  The President knows that silence is complicity, and
that’s why he uses the platforms he has to try and ensure that our
fellow Americans are safe. 

Q    Andrew, just want to try again.  I know the Admiral said he didn’t
have a readout of any meeting or discussion that AOC had with the
President.  But did you have anything or could you at least clarify his
line from the remarks yesterday where he said he would talk to her
“about another part of the world”?  What did he mean when he said that?

MR. BATES:  I’m not going to go into private conversations between the
President and any lawmakers.  We appreciated her participation in the
climate event, as well as Senator Sanders and Senator Markey and
others.  That is, of course, a national security and an economic crisis
that we want to keep fighting very hard to resolve in a way that
continues to bolster our economy and bring manufacturing back to the
United States.

Q    Is the President meeting with other lawmakers to get any advice or
context on talking about Gaza or Israel or how to deal with the number
of young people, specifically, who are really unhappy with the way he’s
handling this?

MR. BATES:  I don’t have any meetings to read out right now or to
announce.

Q    On the —

(Cross-talk.)

On the other side — sorry. 

Q    No, you’re fine.

Q    On the other side of the political spectrum, some Republicans have
been calling for the President to send in the National Guard.  What does
the White House make of these calls for people who are, you know, saying
that the President should take more action about the protests?

MR. BATES:  Like I mentioned, we’re monitoring this closely.  I know
that Governor Hochul came to Columbia’s campus yesterday to meet with
university leadership and with the NYPD.  She spoke out against the,
quote, “vile and abhorrent rhetoric,” end quote, that has been do- —
documented. 

The decision to deploy National Guard members in support of local or
state law enforcement rests with governors.  DOJ and the FBI continue to
offer support to universities and colleges with respect to the federal
laws that apply to student conduct.  And each institution has
established points of contact with federal law enforcement should
additional support be needed.

Q    The President is going to New York on Thursday.  Does he plan to
stop by the protests in Columbia?

MR. BATES:  I don’t have any schedule announcements to make.

Q    Is he planning to address the students at some point, Andrew? 
We’ve been seeing a lot of protesters, you know, including a lot of
college students, follow him around the country, you know, trying to
sort of get him to talk to them, to —

Is — is he planning to address what is happening right now?  You know,
is he calling these youth groups privately?  How is he getting involved
in these growing pro- — to address these growing protests?

MR. BATES:  Like I mentioned, I don’t have schedule announcements to
make here today.  But the President has had a number of conversations
that you all have reported on with community members.  He takes those
conversations seriously.  He also knows that this is a painful moment
for many communities.

And I think you’ve all seen him respond.  When — when people speak out
at our events, he shows empathy.  He shows compassion.  He respects
their right to make their voice heard.  And I think that that says a lot
about how he is approaching what is a very complex situation. 

Q    When the President signs the security supplemental, are there plans
for him to do so publicly with anyone from the Hill?

MR. BATES:  So, I — I’m going to repeat what Admiral Kirby said, that,
of course, we’re waiting for the Senate to pass this legislation, which
we strongly support.  As soon as it does, he will sign the bill as
quickly as he can so that we can start dispersing this critically needed
aid that we have fought for going back to before last summer and which
we’re very glad Republicans and Democrats were able to come around
about.

And si- — since you raised that, I do just want to mention that the
President, of course, has a long history of working across the aisle to
f- — to find common ground with Republicans. 

Throughout the last six months, the President directed his team to
continuously brief Speaker Johnson and other leaders on the urgent need
for this supplemental.  I know that Speaker Johnson has spoken about how
consequential those intelligence briefings that the President ensured
senior officials were providing were.  And that is something that we
will continue to do.

Q    You mentioned Speaker Johnson.  He is facing some political
pressure, calls for him to either resign or be ousted from the
Speakership.  You just talked about bipartisanship.  Does the President
have any thoughts on whether Democrats should support Speaker Johnson as
he faces these calls to resign or potentially be ousted from the
Speakership?

MR. BATES:  We do not insert ourselves into the politics of any caucus
or conference on Capitol Hill.  That is true of either party, either
chamber.  And that is something we’re going to hold to.

Q    Why does the Spe- — what does the President think about how the
Speaker has conducted himself more generally over the talk — over the
course of these talks?

MR. BATES:  The President respects Speaker Johnson.  They, of course,
have important disagreements.  But they do have values in common, like
faith and family. 

President Biden has always believed in working across the aisle in good
faith and finding areas of common ground wherever it is possible.  He’s
glad that they were able to do that in a way that benefited America’s
national security interests in the world. 

And, again, he is grateful to Speaker Johnson and Leader Jeffries for
getting this through the House.  He hopes the Senate will pass it as
soon as possible. 

Q    And just one on the event today on abortion.  Do we expect the
President to use the term “abortion”?  We know that often he talks about
reproductive freedom, but sometimes he shies away from actually using
the term “abortion.” 

MR. BATES:  I will just caveat this by saying that this is a campaign
event.  And so, that limits my ability to preview the remarks. 

But taking a step back, you all have covered that the President has put
reproductive freedom at the core of his agenda.  It’s something you hear
him speak about frequently.  And when he does that, he mentions the word
“abortion,” and he calls — he calls out Republican officials for their
draconian attacks on basic freedoms that are having heartbreaking
impacts all across this country. 

These radical abortion bans are resulting in women being denied care
even in emergency rooms. 

I know the AP had a story that included a heartbreaking mention of a
woman who — who miscarried in a hospital bathroom because she could not
get the care that she needed and that she deserved. 

And so, the President does mention abortion when he talks about
reproductive freedoms being at the forefront of his agenda.  He also
highlights the range of other fundamental reproductive freedoms that are
being targeted by radical Republican officials, including access to IVF,
as you all have covered, including access to contraception. 

And we all need to keep front of mind that this is all taking place for
one reason, and it is because the former President handpicked Supreme
Court justices with the express purpose of overturning Roe v. Wade. 
That is what unleashed this pain all over the country.  That is why one
in three women in America live in a state with an abortion ban. 

And that is something that we need to reverse with legislation that
undoes that damage and protects people’s core rights and takes
government out of the most personal decisions that families make. 

Q    Has the President been monitoring former President Trump’s trial
this week?

MR. BATES:  I have not talked to him about what — what he is viewing
this week.  Obviously, he has been — he has been busy.  And I’m — I’m
just going to, you know, do this with the ca- — the — you know, the
caveat that we do not weigh in on the 2024 election or on independent
judicial processes. 

But the President’s focus is on cutting costs and beating inflation,
taking on rich special interests who need to pay their fair share in
taxes, and, like we were just talking about, standing up for freedoms
that are under assault by radical Republican officials. 

He’s — he’s working to make sure that we can expand the list of drugs
that Medicare can negotiate for, and he wants to make sure that we stop
MAGAnomics from triggering what former Secretary of the Treasury Larry
Summers said would be a, quote, “inflation spiral,” with these massive
tax giveaways to big corporations and to the wealthiest households that
would worsen inflation, along with these across-the-board tariffs that
would raise prices on the American people and also worsen inflation. 

So, that’s something that he’s being attentive to. 

Q    Just a quick follow-up, but on a — on sort of a topic about Trump
that he tweeted this morning.  He was complaining about the U.S. dollar
reaching a new high against the Japanese yen, calling it a “total
disaster” for the U.S.  He said, you know, “When I was President, I
spent a good deal of time telling Japan and China, in particular, you
can’t do that.” 

What kind of concerns does the Biden administration have around currency
manipulation when it comes to Japan?  Or do you share some of the
concerns that the former President raised this morning?

MR. BATES:  Well, I will again say that I am not going to comment on the
2024 election.  I’m going to follow the law.  I am also not going to
comment on the dollar.  I have been well trained by my wife.  (Laughs.)

Q    Sure.  But, like, in a —

MR. BATES:  But I — I will say, again, that when you take a step back
and you look at the MAGAnomics agenda that has been proposed by
Republican officials, including tax welfare for the super-rich and big
corporations, including across-the-board tariffs, there is a very real
threat that that will exacerbate inflation. 

President Biden’s top economic priority is continuing to make more
historic progress, bringing costs down for people.  Doing the opposite:
having wich — rich special interests pay their fair share and ensuring
that we can bring down energy costs through the Inflation Reduction Act;
building on the list of drugs that Medicare is now empowered to
negotiate because we beat Big Pharma; not letting Republican officials
repeal the Inflation Reduction Act in a giveaway to Big Pharma. 

Q    Sure.  I was asking specifically about currency manipulation.  That
has nothing to do with 2024.  I mean, are — you know, does the
administration share concerns that Japan, for example, in this case, is
manipulating the current- — currency markets?

MR. BATES:  I am not going to comment on currency from here, but I — I
respect the question. 

All good?  All right. 

Q    Thank you.

1:21 P.M. EDT
