---
date: '2024-04-03'
published_time: 2024-04-03 16:41:46-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/04/03/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-55/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine\_Jean-Pierre"
---
 
12:58 P.M. EDT

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Good afternoon, everyone.  
  
 Q Good afternoon.  
  
 MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  I have one thing at the top, and then we’ll
get into Q&A.   
  
 I’ll start by sharing some more information on the President’s — on the
President’s event earlier today with Senator Bernie Sanders.

 Twenty-seven million Americans have asthma, including 4 million kids. 
The reality is, the price of inhalers is way too high for too many
Americans.

 Families can pay anywhere between $200 and $600 for inhalers without
insurance, despite the fact that it costs less than five bucks to make
an inhaler.

 That is why, last year, the Federal Trade Commission and the FDA
announced efforts to crack down on falsely claimed patents and increase
competition of inhalers to lower costs.

 As a result of this administration’s actions, one inhaler manufacturer
removed patents from a regulatory list.

 Last month, three of the four largest inhaler manufacturers announced
that they will cap the cost of inhalers for many patients at 35 bucks
per month.

 This is on the top of our work — this is on top of our work to lower
the cost of prescription drugs through the President’s Inf- — Inflation
Reduction Act, which every single congressional Republican opposed.

 Thanks to the law, Medicare can now negotiate lower drug prices for
American families.

 But President Biden wants to expand those efforts by applying the
$2,000 cap on prescription drug costs and 35 bucks for insulin to all
Americans.

 This work to deliver lower healthcare costs is in stark contrast to
what congressional Republicans have proposed.  They are still working to
repeal the Inflation Reduction Act and gut Medicaid.  And they just
released a budget that would lead to devastating cuts to Medicare and
the Affordable Care Act, increased housing costs and prescription drug
costs for families, and huge giveaways for the wealthy and the biggest
corporations.

 President Biden has been clear: This will not happen on his watch.  The
Biden-Harris administration will continue working with partners, like
Bernie Sanders, to de- — to deliver results for the American people.  
  
 With that — all right.  Good to see you. 

 Q Hi.

 MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Good to see you.  
  
 Q Thank you.  Good to see you too.  Two questions, starting with the
earthquake in Taiwan.  Has the government there asked for anything yet
from the United States?  And will the U.S. coordinate with China if
Taiwan does request any kind of assistance?  
  
 MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, what I will say is that we continue to closely
monitor the earthquake impacting Taiwan.  And we certainly pray for all
those who are affected.  And we are — we are — we are standing by — the
United States is standing by on the ready for any necessary assistance. 
I don’t have anything else to provide beyond that.  But we’re closely
monitoring, and we are ready to assist.  
  
 Q Is there any reason to believe at this point that the earthquake will
affect the visits next week by the leaders of Japan and the Philippines
for the summit?

  
 MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, don’t have any change of schedule.  
  
 QAnd then, lastly — sorry, I know I said two, but I have a third.  
  
 MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, it’s okay.  It’s all right, Darlene.  
  
 QDoes the President think the meeting he had last night with Muslim
leaders was useful?  And is there any reaction or comment on a
Palestinian American doctor walking out in the middle of that meeting?

  
 MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, let me just say a couple of things just at the
top about last night and how important it is.  As you know, the
President and the Vice President — they continued their tradition of
honoring the Muslim community during Ramadan by hosting a meeting with
Muslim community leaders to discuss issues of importance to the
community.   
  
 Let’s not forget, this is a — the sit-down conversation, the meeting
was asked and it was supposed — it’s supposed to be private.  They
wanted a private meeting.  That was something that, as we have done our
outreach — as you know, senior White House officials have been doing
this outreach.  The President and the Vice President have been in
communication with the community regularly since October.  And this is
something that they asked — they asked for a private meeting — a working
meeting, if you will.   
  
 And so, we understand what’s — how this community is feeling.  It is
deeply painful moment for many in the Arab and Muslim communities.   
  
 The President also expressed his commitment to continue working to
secure an immediate ceasefire as part of a deal to free the hostages and
significantly increase humanitarian aid into Gaza.  And the President
made clear that he mourns the loss of every innocent life in this
conflict, Palestinian and Israeli.  
  
 The President and Vice President committed — are committed to continue
engaging with these leaders moving forward.  As I mentioned, we have had
regular engagement with members of those communities.  
  
 As it relates to the — the part of the question that you just asked me
about a participant walking out, look, I want to be really careful
here.  We said that we would keep this — these conversations private. 
So, I’m not going to continue — I’m not going to comment on a — any
private discussions.  
  
 But as I said many times from this podium, the President respects an
American — any American’s right to peacefully protest.  And we’re going
to continue to have these conversations, obviously, with that
community.   
  
 Go ahead, Nancy.  
  
 Q Thank you.  
  
 Q Thanks, Karine.  How did the White House decide who would attend the
iftar dinner?  
  
 MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, what I will say is — want to be careful here. 
You know, this meeting, again, was decided, after we had done the
outreach for some time now.  We wanted to make sure that this was a
private meeting and that participants had an opportunity to be — you
know, to be — to be honest and to be able to share their thoughts and
feelings about how — you know, how — where they are, how they feel about
the situation happening, obviously, in the Middle East.  
  
 I don’t have a — a process to lay out how the list came about, and so
I, you know, don’t have anything to — to lay out in that realm. 

But as you know and as I’ve — as I’ve stated a couple of times, we’ve
done outreach for this past several weeks, several months to the Muslim,
to the Arab community, Palestinian community and — and heard from them
directly.  And they spoke; we listened.  And we hope that they feel like
they had an opportunity to express themselves and had an opportunity, in
front of the President and the Vice President, to talk about an
incredibly painful time.  
  
 Q Was last night the President’s first opportunity to speak face to
face with someone who had been on the ground providing aid in Gaza?  
  
 MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, I can’t speak to the different — the
different leaders who have been in this meeting.  It is a private
meeting.  We want to make sure that we give folks the opportunity to
feel that they have some — you know, some — that they know that they can
speak and — and just be clear to us and — and have that — and be — know
that it is — those conversations are in confidence.   
  
 So, don’t want to read out who’s been in the meeting or — or any
specifics in that realm.  I’m going to let them — I’m going to let folks
who — if folks who attended want to speak to that and — they can.

 What I can say is we’ve had multiple conversations, whether it’s senior
— senior officials from the White House, whether it’s this pra- — this
President.  We — not all conversations we — we, obviously, read out.  We
keep o- — we try to keep these private conversations in private. 

 I don’t have a list of — of folks of — of, you know, who — who they are
or where they come from, if they’ve been to Gaza.  That is something I
want to be super mindful of. 

 Q What was the President’s reaction to the fact that the doctor decided
to leave the dinner?

 MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  It’s very — very similar to what I said to Darlene. 
The President respects — he respects, you know, any individual, any
American, for them to peacefully protest.  He understands that this is a
— a painful moment for — for many Americans across the country. 

 And so, he respects their — their freedom to peacefully protest.  I
don’t have anything — you know, I don’t anything outside of that.  They
have a right to peacefully protest.  And we’re going to continue to
respect that.

 Go ahead, Jordan.

 Q Thanks, Karine.  Do you — does the administration expect there to be
an emergency funding package for the Key Bridge in Baltimore to be
announced before the President visits the city on Friday? 

 MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, as you know, the Department of Transportation
just last week announced $60 million to be able to put forward in — in —
in building — having to rebuild that bridge.  I don’t have anything
outside of — of additional funding. 

 The President has been very, very clear: He wants to make sure that we
— we make the community of Baltimore whole again.  And he has said that
the federal government will cover — will certainly cover the bridge
being built. 

 Our focus right now, outside of the — rebuilding that bridge, is making
sure that the ports are open, making sure that we continue to do that
recovery, clean out — clean out that area. 

 And so, that’s been the focus.  The President is going to go on
Friday.  He will see himself.  We’ll have more information of — of
what’s — what’s going on on the ground.  But he gets regular updates,
you know, and I think that’s important as well. 

 Our hearts go out to the lives that were lost during that — that
evening — or that early morning.  It’s a sad — obvi- — sad, sad news. 
And we are with the families who are mourning — who are mourning their
lost ones at this time. 

 QAnd then on Ukraine.  The White House issued a statement yesterday
that was dismissive of Speaker Johnson’s idea to tie that package to the
policy banning future LNG exports.  You know, it said that the President
wants the aid package passed right away —

 MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

 Q– and that you support the LNG export ban.  But can you clarify
whether that means you’re — you’re ruling out that proposal from Speaker
Johnson?  Like, is that off the table or — or is this something that you
might consider down the road?

 MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, we’ve been very clear, right?  We’ve been
very clear.  The reporting, we have said — as you said, from our
statement — is not true.  We’ve been really clear about House
Republicans should pass the bipartisan national security agreement that
already pla- — passed with overwhelming support out of the Senate — 70
to 29.  You’ve heard me say that many times before.

 We need to make sure Ukraine has what it needs to defend itself against
Russia’s aggression.  We’re going to continue to be clear about that. 

 And there is a way to get Ukraine what they need.  All the Speaker has
to do is put that national security supplemental on the floor.   
  
 The President supports the pause on pending — which is on pending ob- —
obviously, additional approvals of L- — LNG export licenses to evaluate
the economic and climate impacts on consumers and communities.  He
supports that pause. 

 And there is a way — there is a way to deal with what Ukrainians are
fighting for right now.  They’re fighting for their democracy.  They’re
fighting for their freedom against the aggression of Mr. Putin.  There’s
a way to get them the assistance that they need, and that is to pass
that bipartisan — we believe that would be a bipartisan support —
national security supplemental that got bipartisan support.

 If he puts it on the floor, we know — we know for a fact that
Republicans will vote for it.  We know where Democrats stand.  He needs
to put that on the floor. 

 Go ahead, Gabe.

 Q Karine, the meeting yesterday was a scaled-back event, as we
understand it.  What does — or how troubling is it to the White House
that prominent Arab American leaders are declining to come to the White
House?

 MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, look, you know, want to be really clear.  And
we’ve been saying this many times before.  Number one, we’ve don- —
we’ve done these outreach.  We listened.  The community wanted to have
what we thought — change the format, do a meeting where it was a working
meeting.  We respected that.  We listened to them and we had a working
meeting.  And so, want to be really respectful of that. 

 And, look, we understand it’s a very painful time.  We understand
that.  And we respect that. 

 And so, look, I — I can’t speak to individuals who want to attend, not
want to attend.  That’s for them to speak to.  The President is going to
continue to — and his administration, obviously — senior officials are
going to continue to have these conversations.  We’re going to continue
to listen to the community.  That’s what a president does.  And that’s
what this President will — will continue to do. 

 Q I know the President spoke with Chef José Andrés.  Does the President
agree with Chef Andrés that Israel is using food as a weapon?

 MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, we understand how Chef Andrés is feeling. 
Right?  He just lost members of his team — I’m sure who felt like family
to him as well.  The op-ed was very powerful.  What he does is heroic —
not just in Gaza, around the world — providing food, providing that
essential humanitarian assistance. 

 And we — you know, you heard from the President last night in his
statement.  He — it is — he’s outraged, and he’s heartbroken.  We are
all heartbroken here by those seven lives lost. 

 And so, we are going to continue to mourn with them — with — with the —
with Chef José Andrés and, obviously, the families. 

 I’m just not going to — he’s going to speak for himself.  We are very
clear about where we stand.  I think the President’s statement was
incredibly powerful, impactful, and really, truly lays out where — how
he feels about the current situation. 

 Q And on another topic, Karine.  How worried is the White House about
bird flu?

 MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, this is something that we are certainly
monitoring.  We have been — CDC has been certainly working on — on top —
working — working and focusing on this.  You know, we take health and
safety of the American people seriously.  It is very important to this
President.  Our top priority is to keep communities healthy, safe, and
informed. 

 We are closely tracking this, monitoring this, as I just stated, of the
reports that are out there and have active, relevant agencies to
coordinate with and support local authorities.   
  
 The CDC has said the risk to human health from this outbreak is low. 
They are continuing to monitor and will continue to coordinate with
relevant agencies and officials.  This is — when it comes — again, when
it comes to the public health of the American people, we take that very
seriously.  And we’ll continue to track this. 

 Q And, finally, what’s the White House’s response to some on the left
who think that Justice Sotomayor should retire so that the President
could appoint her replacement?

 MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — I’ve been asked this question before here at the
podium.  And when it comes to those types of decision — decisions, those
are personal decisions.  That is — regardless if it’s Justice Sotomayor
or any other Just- — Justice on the bench, that is for them to make. 
That is a decision for that Justice to make. 

 Again, it’s a personal decision.  That is not something that we get
involved in.  But it is something for, obviously, any Justice on the
bench — they are — they should be given the space and the freedom to
make that decision.  I — I don’t have anything else to say beyond that.

 Go ahead, Selina.

 Q Thanks, Karine.  How is Israel going to conduct that investigation
into the strike that killed those World Central Kitchen aid workers?

 MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, we — you heard from the President last night. 
You heard from my colleague at — from the National Security Council
yesterday and also earlier today. 

 I think the President’s statement was very, very strong — right? — very
straightforward.  He wants to — he wants to see a — a investigation
that’s swift, an investigation that’s comprehensive, that has — that
brings accountability.  And he wants to make sure that it is made
public. 

 We leave it to, obviously, the Israeli government to do that
investigation.  But we want to make sure that it’s swift, it’s
comprehensive, that it’s made public.  And it is important.  We need to
get to — certainly get to the bottom of exactly what happened. 

 Q Can you explain what that would entail, a kind of investigation like
this?  This is a strike that happened in an active warzone.  Can you
give us some detail on what it looks like?

 MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, IDF said they have an ongoing investigation. 
It’s underway.  I think that’s important. 

We’ve called for this investigation to happen.  I think that’s
important.  We wanted to see it happen in a swift manner.  We want to
make sure that the findings are public and that there is
accountability. 

 I want to be ma- — very careful here.  I’m not going to get ahead of
that process.  There is a process underway.  I believe my NSC colleague
mentioned that they have some initial findings.  It’s preliminary. 

 And so, that process is going to continue.  I’m going to let that
process go underway and — and — and let — let the Israeli government
speak to that.

 Q Right.  But for the sake of transparency, can you explain what that
process is and if the U.S. is confident in that process?

 MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, we’re not — I’m not going to get into
hypotheticals.  I’m not going to get into that partic- — a particular
process here. 

We want to see something that is comprehensive, we want to see something
that leads to accountability, we want to see it be swift, and we want to
make sure that it is made available to the public. 

 That’s what — that’s what the Israeli government — that’s what Prime
Minister Netanyahu said he’s going to do.  And we’re going to let that
process flow.  We’re going to let that process happen. 

 Q So, Kirby said earlier today that they’re hoping to get in the books
a meeting in person next week with an Israeli delegation. 

 MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

 Q Can you provide any more details on that and who might come?

 MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m not going to provide any details on that.  What I
can say is — basically, from the readout, is that the expectation is to
have a meeting in person.  I think it was important that there was a
virtual meeting that occurred, obviously, on Monday to talk about the
Rafah operations. 

 We’ve been very clear where we stand on this — very clear.  We believe
there has to be alternative ways to deal with Hamas in — in Gaza.  As we
are — specifically in — in Rafah, a military operation in — we believe
is not the way to move forward. 

 There is a active conversations happening with the Israeli government
and obviously our government, and I think that’s important. 

 I’m not going to go into details from here.  As you — as you heard from
us, as you heard from my colleague, there’s going to be hopefully next
week an in-person meeting, and we’re looking forward to continuing those
really critical, important conversations.

 Go ahead.

 Q Do you anticipate any changes to the President’s policy toward Israel
and Gaza as a result of yesterday’s strike?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, I can say that nothing has changed, and we’ve
been clear about that since — certainly, since yesterday.  We are going
to continue to have those really tough conversations — right? —
important, tough conversations about how Israel — Israel moves forward
with their operation. 

 We want to make sure that civilians are kept safe, that — are protected
— and also folks who are providing humanitarian aid.  The President was
very, very clear. 

 He also said in his statement that Israel needs to do more.  We’ve been
very clear about that as well.  We’re going to continue to have those
conversation with our Israel cou- — counterparts. 

 And — and, look, your — you know, this is important to this President. 
But I will also add: That’s why the hostage deal is so critical.  That’s
why the President has been working 24/7 along with his — with his team
to get that hostage deal done. 

 And if we get a hostage deal, it means that we can get more
humanitarian aid into Israel — I’m sorry, into Gaza — pardon me — and
also means that we get to a — a ceasefire — we get into a ceasefire so
that we can get that aid in, so that we can get, also, hostages home. 
So, that is what we’re going to continue also to work on.

 Q Do you have a progress report on that hostage deal?

 MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have a progress report.  You saw in the
President’s statement that his team continues to have those conversation
in Cairo right now.  That is important. 

 And he — you know, we — we — wish I can — I wish I can stand here today
and say there’s a deal.  But those conversations continue. 

We’re — we have made this a priority.  This President has made this a
priority to get that hostage deal.  It’s important to get those hostages
home to their family.  It’s important to get that humanitarian aid and
with a — you know, leading to a ceasefire. 

 Go ahead.

 Q Just one more follow-up on the meeting yesterday.  Dr. Ahmad said
that he had handed the President a letter from an eight-year-old orphan
girl who is living in Rafah.  Has the President read that letter? 

 MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I’m going to be really careful here.  I’m not
going to speak to contents of a private meeting.  Just not going to do
that from here. 

 The doctor speaks for himself.  He’s free to do that.  But we have said
we’re going to keep these meetings private so that we gave folks who
attended the meeting the — you know, the opportunity to be honest, the
opportunity to make sure to have a safe place to share their thoughts
with us.  So, I’m just not going to read out a content of a me- — a
private meeting.

 Q Well, since he chose himself to publicly disclose that he had shared
this letter and the contents of that letter with the media, can you say
whether the President has read it?

 MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Again, I’m not going to speak to any content of the —
of a private meeting.  That is something that many members who attended
— all of them, truly, who attended wanted to — this to be private. 
We’re going to keep — we’re going to keep our side to this — our side of
the promise. 

 Q This letter, in part, says, “I beg you, President Biden, stop them
from entering Rafah.”  Without getting into his reaction — potential
reaction to that, does the White House believe that Israel entering
Rafah is something that President Biden can stop?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We’re having conversations — important conversations. 
The first one happened virtually.  And, actually, last we- — last week,
when the Israeli Foreign Minister was here, obviously, we had a
conversation — Jake Sullivan, Secretary Austin, and others had
conversations — and that involved the Rafah oper- — operations or Rafah
more broadly.  And so, it started then.  There was a virtual
conversation on Monday, and it’s going to continue.

Our hope that we can get to a place where we are indeed protecting
innocent civilian lives in Rafah.  You heard — you’ve heard my
colleagues talk about there’s more than 1 million Palestinians there who
ha- — who sought refuge, who are there seeking refuge.  And so, we want
to make sure that their lives are protected. 

We know that there are Hamas operators there in Rafah.  And so, we want
to make sure that Israel is able to, you know, do what it needs to do in
getting — in getting those operators, but it is important — Hamas
operators, to be more exact — but it is important that we protect those
civilian lives — we protect those lives. 

So, those conversations are happening, we’re hoping to see — we’re
expecting — I shouldn’t say “hoping” — expecting that it’ll happen in
person next week.  And that’s what we’re going to work towards. 

Q And just on the President’s visit to Baltimore on Friday.  Do you know
if he is going to the actual site of the collapsed bridge, and would he
be willing to meet with family members of the workers that were killed?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I know there is a lot of interest in the
President’s trip on Friday.  The President obviously is very much
looking forward to going to Baltimore, being there for the — for the
people of Baltimore. 

You heard him say he’s going to be there for as long as it takes to make
sure that we make them whole again.  We’ll have more to share on what
that day — what Friday is going to look like in the upcoming day or so. 

Go ahead.

Q Thanks, Karine.  So, what is the accountability that the U.S. wants to
see here?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, let’s <s>let’s</s> \[let\] the ongoing
investigation happen.  We want to make sure — the President said this —
swift.  We want it to — this — it to be swift.  We want it to be —
brings to — lead to accountability.  We want it to be comprehensive and
to make it public.   
  
 And so, I’m not going to get ahead of that.  Want to see what — what
the Israeli government says when they do this investigation.  Just want
to be really mindful about that. 

Q So, you’re not asking for anything specifically to take place?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We want to see the investigation. 

Q Okay.  And the changes — can you detail what changes that the U.S.
would like to see Israel make as a result?  And what even makes you
think that as a result of these recent deaths that they would make
changes when —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look —

Q– they haven’t so far?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  And I kind of said this earlier, moments ago.  We are
going to continue to have those tough conversations with our Israeli
counterparts.  We’re going to continue to make very clear that we have
to protect innocent civilian lives.  That is something that we want to
make sure is a priority. 

As — as Israel is moving forward with the — with their — their operation
against Hamas, a terrorist organization, we understand the importance of
them doing that, but we want to also make sure that innocent civilians’
life are protected.  And folks who are out there — brave folks — brave
people who are out there providing that humanitarian aid, we want to
make sure that their lives are protected, those lives are protected. 

We’re going to have those tough, tough conversations as we have been. 
And so, that’s part of — this is part of it, right?  This is part of di-
— diplomacy.  This is part of having honest, real, frank conversations.

Q And — and in respect to those conversations, John Kirby said earlier
today that the White House has made its outrage known about this all the
way up to the presidential level.  Aside from the statement that the
President released last night, how has the President made his outrage
known about this to the Israelis?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, I think the statement that he put out was
pretty clear.  Right?  I mean, it showed his outrage.  It showed how he
was heartbroken.  That’s the first couple of words in the statement. 
He’s outraged.  He’s heartbroken. 

And we also laid out what we want to see and the conversations that we
have been having.  But it also lifts up the importance of having that
hostage deal, getting that done, getting to a ceasefire, getting that
humanitarian aid, making sure that those hostages come home to their
loved ones. 

So, there’s a lot of work to be done.  We’re going to continue to do
that work.  But I think that statement made it loud and clear — made it
loud and clear where the President stands. 

Go ahead, Karen.

QThanks.  Just to go back to bird flu.  Two questions on that.  Has the
President been briefed on the cases that have been identified so far?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  The President has been briefed.  Yes.

Q Okay.  And in your answer earlier, you had focused on the health
aspect of it.  But the nation’s largest producer of eggs has temporarily
stopped production at plants in Texas and Michigan because some chickens
had tested positive.  What are the concerns about supply chain issues
and price increases?  And is there something the administration can be
doing or should be doing right now to limit the potential impact on
economic activity?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, obviously, any economic impact is something that
we closely monitor.  So, we’re going to closely track that, closely
monitor the — monitor that.

As it relates to that particular company, I would refer you to CDC on
exactly what they’re doing and — and what ha- — what is happening there
specifically. 

But we’re always going to assess.  (Reporter sneezes.)  We’re always
going to keep a — keep — God bless you — we’re always going to monitor —
monitor the economic impacts of any — any big changes like that or any
changes like that. 

But, obviously, one of the most important thing for this administration
is the health and safety of American public, and so that’s how — we take
that very seriously.  That’s how we’re going to operate.  That is the
number-one thing here.  And CDC is — is been working with rele- —
relevant agencies to make sure that we — we keep the American public
protected here.

AIDE:  Karine, you got to go soon.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Hmm?

AIDE:  You need to go soon.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, my goodness. 

Go ahead.

Q Thank you.  First, the — so, you guys started draining the Strategic
Petroleum Reserve to try and help with the Putin price hike a few years
ago, said you were going to refill it, but now it doesn’t seem like
that’s happening.  Why?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, from — I believe the Department of Energy is —
is responsible for — for that particular component — is refilling —
refilling that.  So, I would refer you to Department of Energy.  I know
there were certain components to that and how they were going to move
forward in refilling — refilling it.  I — they would have more specifics
on that for you. 

Q Okay.  And why isn’t federal immigration law tougher on border
crossers who come here and are accused of serious crimes?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, are you speaking of a specific case?

Q There’s the story in New York: an eight-person crew of border crossers
found with drugs and guns, six of them now are out on bail.  Does
President Biden think policies like that are making the country safer?

 MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I want to be really careful.  That’s an active
case.  So, don’t want to comment on an active case. 

But anyone found guilty — and we’ve been very clear about that — anyone
found guilty of a crime should be held accountable.  We have been very,
very clear about that.  And if a — if a person poses a danger to a
community, they should be detained pretrial.

  
 Q So, more generally, then, do you guys think that some big cities in
this country have liberal DAs that are too soft on crime?  
  
 MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, what I will say is — and I’m not going to speak
to every state or city here; I — it’s not for me to speak to — we have
been very clear about this: Anyone who commits a crime and is found
guilty needs to be held accountable.  That’s what this Pr- — the
President believes. 

And we are certainly very much — we welcome local law enforcement
support and cooperation in apprehending and removing individuals in this
country who pose a risk to our national security or also public
safety.   
  
 If they are found guilty, they should be held accountable.  That’s our
— that’s where we stand on this.

 Q In the back, perhaps.

  
 MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.  
  
 Q Yeah, thanks, Karine.  Two questions.  One is you referred to the
President being outraged by the strike on aid workers.  And in the past,
the President has also referred to indiscriminate bombing.  I — I’m
wondering if you can articulate why, thus far, there has been no
consequences and — and why there are no consequences.  So, beyond
(inaudible) —  
  
 MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I want to be clear: It’s — it’s not me referring
to that.  This is the President’s statement.  I’m just lifting up the
statement from last night —  
  
 Q Yeah, I understand.  
  
 MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — where he says, “I am outraged and heartbroken” —
the first — the first, basically, line — part of the first line of the
President’s — President’s statement from last night, and it speaks for
itself.  And he talked about how — he talked about how there’s more that
needs to be done to protect cin- — innocent civilians in Gaza.  
  
 Q But can you articulate why —

 MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

 Q– there have been no consequences thus far for any types of behavior
that the President has been outraged by?  
  
 MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, we’ve had — we are having conversations with
the Israeli government.  We’ve been very clear about that.  Those
conversations have been tough.  We’ve been very public about those
conversations.   
  
 On this particular incident, there will be an investigation.  There is
an investigation currently happening.  The President has said he wants
it to be swift, he wants it to be comprehensive, and he wants to — there
— to see accountability, to bring account — account — right? — to bring
accountability.  He said that in his statement.  And he wants to make
sure that it is public.   
  
 So, we’re going to let that process move forward.  And, you know, you
said it yourself, the President also has been publicly clear here about
what — how he feels about what he has seen.   
  
 We do not want to see innocent civilians die here.  We do not want
that.  And we’re going to continue to be clear and have those
conversations, from the President on down, with our counterparts in — in
the Israeli government.   
  
 And those conversations are tough.  Right?  You think about Rafah — the
Rafah operations.  We’ve been clear about that, how — where we stand:
that a military operations is not the way to go.  There are alternative
ways of getting those Hamas operators in of- — in Rafah.   
  
 That’s why we had a meeting — a virtual meeting on Monday.  That’s why
we’re going to have an in-person meeting with the Israeli government. 

The person ta- — the President takes this very seriously.  He wants to
make sure that innocent civilian lives are protected, including those
humanitarian aid workers who are out there.  And yes, he’s outraged and
he’s heartbroken by what happened yesterday.   
  
 And we’re going to have those conversations with the Israeli
government, as we have been.  It’s going to continue.  
  
 Q If I can also go back to something that was asked earlier —

 MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

 Q– about the President meeting with any aid workers or anybody who has
been inside of Gaza since October 7th.  It is a question I’ve also
privately posed to —

 MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

 Q– some of your colleagues, and it feels like a yes-or-no question,
whether or not he’s actually met with somebody who’s been inside.  And —
and the reason I’m asking is a number of people at the meeting said, to
their knowledge, this was the first time the President had actually —  
  
 MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
   
 Q– spoken to anybody who’s been inside of Gaza since October 7th, and I
just wanted —  
  
 MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We- — well, here’s what I can tell you.  
  
 Q– to confirm that.  
  
 MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  He’s met with community leaders who are, obviously,
from the Muslim community, the Arab community, Palestinian community.  I
would let them speak for themselves on if they’ve been to Gaza.   
  
 You know, I don’t have any — we don’t have any information to share
about that.  We want to be really mindful that the — this meeting and
many meetings that we’ve held — had have been private.  We want to
respect that.   
  
 And so, just going to leave it there.  I think what is important,
though — like, I understand the question —  
  
 Q I’m saying —  
  
 MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Wait.  No, no, no —  
  
 Q– is he getting updates —

 MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, no, no.

 Q– from, you know, what the situation tangibly looks like?  
  
 MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, I — no, I understand.  Right?  I — I get what
you’re saying, the — the importance of hearing from folks who have been
on the ground in Gaza.  I totally understand that. 

But I think it’s also important that the President is hearing directly
from the community — directly from the community who are — some of them
are personally affected by what’s happening in Gaza.  Right?  
  
 And so, the fact that senior White House officials are having those
conversations — tough conversations is important.  The — the fact that
the President has done so as well is important.   
  
 But I — I hear your question.  But we are also hearing from folks from
the community, having these sit-down conversations.  
  
 The community leaders that were here yesterday and met with the
President and the Vice President, they asked for a working group
conversation, and we listened, and we made that happen.  And the
President heard directly from them what they are going through, what
they see, how painful it has been for them.   
  
 So, I think that’s important as well.  We can’t — we can’t not, you
know, lift that up as well.

  
 Go ahead.  
  
 QThank you, Karine.  Just while you’ve been up there, there’s been some
reporting that Biden is going to speak to Israeli Prime Minister
Netanyahu tomorrow.  Can you confirm

— confirm that?  
  
 MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have a call to confirm at this time. 

As you know, the President and — and the Prime Minister have spoken
several times — more than, I believe, two dozen times — since October
7th.  And — and I’ve said this already: His — both — both
administration, both governments talk to each other, their counterparts
talk to each other every day.  Just don’t have anything to confirm at
this time.   
  
 Q And on — on Uganda.  A court upheld the anti-LGBTQ law that would
mean pri- — prison sentences for people who support gay rights in that
country.  I just wanted to see if you have anything from the podium to
say about that.    
  
 MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, a couple of things.  The announcement that some
provisions of Uganda’s Anti-Homosexuality Act have been removed by the
constitution- — constitutional court is a small and insufficient step
towards safeguarding human rights.   
  
 The United States is deeply concerned about the remaining provisions,
which undermine public health, human rights, and Uganda’s international
reputation.   
  
 As the President has said time and time again, no one should have to
live in constant fear nor be subjected to violence or discrimination. 
It is wrong.   
  
 We will continue to work to advance respect for human rights for all in
Uganda and also around the world.   
  
 Okay.  I’m going to take a couple more —  
  
 Q I just have one — one question.   
  
 MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, sure.  
  
 Q Sorry.  
  
 MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Sure.  
  
 Q On — just going back to the LNG piece for a moment.  
  
 MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
 Q I think, everybody in this room, we have a sense for how the
President personally feels about Ukraine and Ukraine funding, and he’s
made it abundantly clear over the course of two years. 

 This LNG temporary pause doesn’t have as high of a ho- — pro- —
profile.  And can you give any sense for what it is that the President —
why he cares so much about it, whether he has shared with you any sort
of deep views that he has on this particular very, kind of, targeted
policy?

 MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  So, look, the pause on the pending approvals
of LNG export, it is important.  It’s — and it is important to
understand the climate and economic impacts — that’s why it’s so
important, right? — of these LNG exports.  And it — and it is the
impacts on consumers — right? — the impacts on communities.  And that’s
why w- — the President supports these LNG pauses.

 So, we’re going to continue to meet our LNG needs of our allies.  And
the temporary pause does not impact current LNG exports.  But there is
some- — by having these pauses, it does tell us something that is
important to know.  And so, that’s why the President supports it.

 As it relates to what we’ve been hearing from the Speaker — Speaker
Johnson, we’ve been very clear: In order to — if we really want to help
the people of Ukraine, the brave people of Ukraine, we got to get that
national security supplemental done.  He has to put that on the floor. 
It will get overwhelming bipartisan support.  We know that to be true. 
That’s how we can help the people of Ukraine.

 Q I guess what I’m trying to say: Is the Pr- —

 MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

 Q Is the President personally invested in this ban — or this temporary
pause the way he is —

 MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, abs- — I mean, look, when we talk about the
existential threat of climate, this is something that the President has
said it is — it is incredibly important to deal with this emergency. 
And he has done more — taken more robust action than any other
president.  This is part of this.  Right?

 And so, the President has been — not just talked about it but has taken
action.  So, I would look at this as part of the action that he’s taken
to deal with climate — the climate crisis.  And, you know, it is a — it
is indeed a crisis.

 When he walked into this administration, he talked about four crises
that we had to deal with as — as Americans.  And climate change is not
just as Americans, as a world.

 And so, climate crisis was one of them.  And he’s taken action, and
he’s going to continue to do that.  And he’s been robust.  He’s — it’s
been comprehensive — more than any — any other president.

 Q This just serves as, like, a smaller piece to that —

 MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  But it’s —

 Q– larger —

 MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  It’s a — I would — I would put it together in that
larger piece.  Yes, it’s a smaller piece of the — of, obviously, the —
the larger initiative of what we’re trying to do, but it’s also
critical.  It’s important. 

 And, look, the reports that are out there, as it relates to Speaker
Johnson, they are not true.  We know how — the best way to get
assistance for Ukraine is to pass that national security supplemental. 
That’s what we want to see.  It’ll — it’ll get done in an —
overwhelmingly in a bipartisan way.

 Go ahead.

 AIDE:  Karine, (inaudible).

 MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I know, I know.  Go ahead.  I got to go.

 Q Thanks, Karine.  On the World Central Kitchen strike.  I mean, is
there concern that this complicates the temporary pier project that —
you know, does it make this effort more challenging?

 MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  The pier? 

 Q Mm-hmm.

 MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, the Department of Defense will have more —
an update on the pier.  We’re going to continue to move forward with
that. 

 Look, the President — when the President said he’s going to do
everything that he can to get that important humanitarian aid into —
into Gaza, in to — to the people — the Palestinian people, innocent
civilians here, he meant it. 

 And so, you’ve seen us do the — the airplane drops.  You- — we’re — in
a couple of weeks, it’s going to be — we’re going to have that temporary
pier.  We’re going to continue to work with Israel to get those trucks
in.

 We understand the dire situation that is currently happening in — in
Gaza, and we are going to do everything that we can to get that aid in. 
This is why the hostage deal is so important.  This is why we’ve been
working 24/7 to get that done — get that humanitarian aid, get that
ceasefire, and get American — American hostages as well as all hostages
home to their loved ones.

 I have to go, but we will see you tomorrow, guys.  Thank you so much.

 Q Thanks, Karine.

 Q Thank you.

   1:36 P.M. EDT
