---
date: '2024-04-02'
modified_time: 2024-04-02 09:24:50-04:00
published_time: 2024-04-02 12:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/04/02/background-press-call-on-the-bilateral-relationship-with-the-peoples-republic-of-china/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Background Press Call on the Bilateral Relationship with the People\u2019\
  s Republic of\_China"
---
 
National Security Council

Via Teleconference

6:07 P.M. EDT

MODERATOR:  Thank you all for joining us this evening for a call on the
United States’ bilateral engagement with the People’s Republic of
China. 

Just a couple of quick ground rules.  For awareness but not for
reporting, joining us on the call this evening is \[senior
administration official\].  The call is going to be held under embargo
until noon tomorrow — that’s April 2nd, noon Eastern Time. 

And with that, I won’t hold us up any further and I will turn the call
over to \[senior administration official\].  She can be attributed on
background as a senior administration official.  Thanks.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks so much.  And, folks, thanks for
joining us on a Monday evening. 

Tomorrow, on April 2nd, in the morning, President Biden will hold a
phone call with President Xi Jinping of the People’s Republic of China. 
Ahead of that, we thought it would be useful to give some context on the
expected shape of that call and what we plan to raise. 

As many of you are tracking, the two leaders met face-to-face in Bali in
November 2022 and then held a summit meeting in Woodside, California, in
November 2023.  At Woodside, the two leaders agreed to maintain regular
open lines of communication to responsibly manage competition and
prevent unintended conflict.  And this phone call really is just part of
that ongoing effort. 

I will note just for folks’ awareness, the last call between the two
leaders was July 2022.  So it’s been a bit since we’ve done a telephone
call between President Xi and President Biden. 

This call, of course, builds on the in-depth meetings between National
Security Advisor Jake Sullivan and CCP Director of the Office of Foreign
Affairs Commission and Foreign Minister Wang Yi in Bangkok on January
26th, 27th of this year, and Secretary Blinken’s meeting with Wang Yi in
Munich in February. 

On the call tomorrow, we anticipate President Biden and President Xi
will discuss the U.S.-China bilateral relationship, the continued
importance of strengthening lines of communication and managing
competition responsibly, and a range of regional and global issues. 

I should note as well, of course: We have not changed our approach to
the PRC, which remains one focused on the framework of invest, align,
and compete.  Intense competition requires intense diplomacy to manage
tensions, address misperceptions, and prevent unintended conflict.  And
this call is one way to do that. 

There are also, of course, areas of cooperation where our interests
align, and it is important to work together to deliver on issues that
matter to the American people.  These areas include counternarcotics,
risk and safety issues related to AI, resumption of mil-mil
communication channels, and climate issues.  We expect the leaders will
discuss progress on each of these issues since the Woodside Summit. 

On the upcoming call, we expect President Biden to emphasize the need
for continued progress and substantive action on counternarcotics to
address the scourge of illicit narcotics trafficking. 

Since Woodside Summit, we have seen the PRC implement some initial
measures to restrict and disrupt the flow of certain precursor chemicals
used to produce illicit synthetic drugs.  But, of course, the drug trade
is continually evolving and changing.  And in order to ensure that we
are disrupting this trade flow, we, the U.S. and China, need to maintain
close consultations, both law enforcement to law enforcement, at the
technical level and otherwise, to really drive that substantive law
enforcement action. 

We also urge the PRC to follow through by scheduling chemicals agreed
upon by the international community at the recent U.N. Commission on
Narcotic Drugs. 

On mil-mil communication, another outcome of the summit, the Chairman of
the Joint Chiefs of Staff, General Brown, held a virtual meeting with
his counterpart in December.  The Defense Policy Coordination talks took
place in early January. 

This week in Honolulu, operator-level Military Maritime Consultative
Agreement meetings, the MMCA — it just rolls right off your tongue —
will take place.  The goal of that is really to talk at the operator
level about how to avoid and better understand the actions of the other
party. 

We also expect communications at the minister-secretary level and
between theater commanders in the coming months. 

All of these interactions from the operator up to the very top, SecDef
level, are important to avoid misunderstandings and miscalculations. 

President Biden has made clear that this mil-mil communication is
critical at all times but especially during times of heightened
tensions. 

Another outcome from the summit: On AI, we are working towards a
U.S.-China dialogue in the coming weeks aimed at managing the risk and
safety challenges posed by advanced forms of AI. 

I will note as well: On March 21, the PRC supported a landmark
resolution on AI at the United Nations as a co-sponsor, along with more
than 120 countries, including the United States.  We think it is
critical for the U.S. and China to better understand respective views
and approaches to managing the risks associated with AI applications and
to communicate about particular areas of concern.  That’s just what this
AI dialogue will do in the coming weeks. 

We’re also continuing discussion in key channels on climate and economic
issues, and seeking to strengthen ties between the people of the two
countries, including by expanding educational and other exchanges. 

The call will also be an opportunity, as I mentioned, for the President
to raise issues outside of bilateral issues.  We expect him to touch on
a number of those.  This call will be an opportunity for the President
to reaffirm the U.S. One China policy and reiterate the importance of
peace and stability across the Taiwan Strait, especially given the
upcoming May presidential inauguration in Taiwan. 

The President may also express concern over destabilizing PRC actions in
the South China Sea, including the dangerous recent action of the PRC
coast guard against routine Philippine maritime operations near Second
Thomas Shoal. 

He will likely also raise concern about the PRC’s support for Russia’s
war against Ukraine and its efforts to help Russia reconstitute its
defense industrial base.  We’re increasingly concerned that this action
will impact longer-term European security.  And I think you heard many
of these same concerns voiced by the French foreign minister in Beijing
over the weekend. 

We also expect the two leaders to cover a range of other regional and
global issues including efforts to advance the denuclearization of the
Korean Peninsula. 

On economic and trade issues, President Biden will likely reiterate
concerns about the PRC’s unfair economic practices and convey that the
U.S. will continue to take actions to protect our economic and national
security interests.  This includes, among other things, ensuring a fair
and level playing field for American workers, as well as preventing
advanced U.S. technologies from being used to undermine our national
security. 

And all of this is focused on de-risking, not decoupling, and the
President will make clear that is the direction we continue to follow. 

In his many conversations with President Xi, President Biden has
consistently underscored the critical importance of respect for human
rights.  And I expect the President will again raise concerns regarding
the erosion of Hong Kong’s autonomy and PRC human rights abuses,
including in Xinjiang and Tibet.

I also expect the President will repeat his call for China to release
U.S. citizens wrongfully detained or under exit bans.

There is no substitute, of course, for regular communication at the
leader level to effectively manage this complex and often tense
bilateral relationship.  Following the leaders call, we will continue to
advance our interests through cabinet-level diplomacy, including visits
to the PRC by Secretary of the Treasury Yellen in the coming days and
Secretary of State Blinken in the coming weeks.  We also expect a
SecDef-Minister of Defense call soon.  And of course, paired with this
is travel by PRC officials here to the United States as well.

I’ve gone on for a bit, so I’ll leave it there for now.  And I welcome
any questions you all may have.

MODERATOR:  With that, we’ll begin to take your questions.

Our first question will go to MJ Lee with CNN.

Q    Hey.  Thank you so much for doing this call.  I had two questions
for you. 

First, before the summit in Woodside last year, it was clear that U.S.
and Chinese officials had done the legwork ahead of time so that coming
out of the summit the two leaders could announce the restoration of the
military (inaudible) and also the announcement on curbing fentanyl.  Are
there specific, sort of, gettables that the Biden administration has
been working towards that are likely to be announced after their phone
call tomorrow? 

And second, do you expect President Biden to follow up on Xi telling him
in their last meeting that China doesn’t want to interfere in the 2024
U.S. election?  And did the President sort of take him at his word on
that? 

And how do you expect the President to sort of talk to President Xi
about Chinese hackers targeting U.S. critical infrastructure? 

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks so much for the questions.  On
the first one, on any announcements or outcomes from the call, you know,
we approach calls a little bit differently than we do summits.  You
know, summits generally once a year.  Really a lot of effort to go in to
lay the groundwork through secretary level and other engagements to
drive towards outcomes.  I would take a phone call more as a check-in,
so checking in on the three outcomes from the summit, trying to drive
progress in that area.  But don’t anticipate new outcomes from this. 

Really, this is kind of what the responsible management of the
relationship looks like.  In between those top-level, senior-level
meetings that can occur about once a year, really finding a chance for
the two leaders to talk through the tough issues and ensure that we’re
responsibly managing the competition between the two countries. 

But as I mentioned before, I do expect a discussion of those outcomes
from Woodside and, again, a goal of trying to drive additional efforts
in each of those baskets. 

On your question regarding election influence or interference, you know,
this has been a topic at, I would say, nearly every, if not every,
senior-level engagement, ensuring that we are being crystal clear about
our concerns that any country interfere or influence our elections.  We
have undertaken a whole-of-government effort to protect our elections
against these foreign attempts to interfere or influence. 

And I would say, like with any message we deliver to China or to other
countries, it is one of continual reinforcement of concern.  And I don’t
think we ever really take the Chinese at their word when they say they
will or will not do something.  It is about verifying what the president
says, verifying the results we see, the actions we see, and then
continuing to underscore and press home what our concerns are.

On cyber-related issues, another longstanding concern the U.S. has had
with China, of course: We’ve been clear both publicly and privately that
we will take actions to address threats to our national security for
malicious cyber activity.  We’ve done that through attribution.  We’ve
done that through work with multilateral partners.  And we’ve done that
through other unilateral means.  We’ll continue to convey to the PRC
these concerns about accesses on U.S. critical infrastructure, on
hacking.  And again, this is another issue I see as a longstanding one
we’re going to have to continue to message at and take action on.

MODERATOR:  Next, we’ll go to Ed Wong with the New York Times.

Q    Hi.  Thanks.  A couple of questions related to America’s partners
in the Asia Pacific region.  I was just in Taipei and I heard concerns
from Taiwanese officials who insist that China has been ramping up its
gray zone activity, whether it’s incursions across the median line using
fighter jets, or ship activities around the offshore islands.  And also,
we’ve seen, as you mentioned, the very active measures taken by Chinese
ships towards the Philippine military ships around the Second Thomas
Shoal. 

The U.S. has rhetorically pushed back on all of these, but China
continues these activities.  What else can Biden be doing or saying to
Xi to try and get China to limit these activities?

Second, obviously, China has great concerns about the ramping up of
military ties between the U.S. and its partners and the upcoming Three
Leaders Summit this month between the presidents of the U.S. and the
Philippines and the prime minister of Japan.  So, will Biden mention
this to Xi or try and placate any anxiety Xi about this?  Thanks.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks for the questions, Ed.

On the first one, on gray zone activity, you know, I think this has been
a longstanding PRC practice to (inaudible) slowly, or sometimes more
quickly ramp up pressure (inaudible).  Sometimes it’s through military
activities, sometimes it’s through economic tools, some through
diplomatic pressure.  So I don’t see anything particularly new here with
PRC behavior in the Cross-Strait or South China Sea.

Our toolkit with which we respond is similarly, I think, a wide range of
different tools, whether it’s diplomatic messaging.  You mentioned the
Japan-Philippines-U.S. trilat and the bilat engagements later this
month.  Certainly, South China Sea and what we’re seeing in that space
will be a topic of discussion. 

Similarly, you’ve seen it come out in statements.  G7 and otherwise are
concerned about coercive activity in the South China Sea and
Cross-Strait.  So, messaging is a piece of that.  Of course, we have
economics, (inaudible). 

This is just, unfortunately, business as usual.  And I think pushing
back on that gray zone coercion is both about U.S. actions but also
working closely with allies and partners, (inaudible) doing with the
trilat later this month. 

We’ve been clear, both from the President but all the way on down to
Secretary of State and at high level as well, that U.S. alliances and
partnerships are not about China.  They’re about the partnership. 
They’re about the affirmative engagement.  But oftentimes, Chinese
action motivates a lot –much of what we talk about.  But that is — you
know, that is something certainly well within China’s control, what it
says and does, and the impact it has on U.S. partners and allies
throughout the region. 

But certainly, I would expect at the upcoming meetings China to be a
topic of conversation.

Over.

MODERATOR:  Next, we’ll go to Selina Wang with ABC. 

Q    Hi.  Thanks for doing this.  I have a few questions.  So, on the
first one, how did the call come about?  Which side initiated this call?

Secondly, is the President going to use this call to pressure China to
use its closeness with Iran to influence the Israel-Hamas war?

And just lastly, any reaction from the administration on, you know, a
group of CEOs, including American CEOs, that recently met with Xi
Jinping?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Great.  Thanks so much, Selina.  On the
first one, on the call, you know the diplomatic dance that usually
precedes scheduling up a call like this. 

You know, at Woodside, just to take it back to that meeting last
November, both President Biden and President Xi agreed that they would
try to pick up the phone a bit more; use that tool as a means of
responsibly managing the relationship, of being in closer touch at the
leader level, which is so very critical in the Chinese system, on a more
regular basis. 

So, you know, looking back between the last two summits, November 2022
and November 2023, we did not have a leader-level call.  And I think
both sides realized that it’s important to do that to really manage the
relationship in a more responsible fashion. 

So, after that agreement in Woodside last year, National Security
Advisor Sullivan saw Director Wang Yi in Bangkok in January, discussed
trying to do something in the first quarter of the year.  And then it
was, of course, a trade-back of dates and times.  That 12-hour time
difference does not make for easy scheduling, I can tell you.  From a
granular working level, not an easy thing to do.  But landed on this
week as a good chance to do it in almost the first quarter of 2024. 

On your second question, on Middle East: This, of course, has come up at
— most recently, Secretary Blinken, before that National Security
Advisor Sullivan, both with Director Wang Yi, and of course, back in
Woodside as well.  We’ve been pretty clear in these high-level
engagements of the role that the PRC should play in using its leverage
with Iran, particularly to bring an end to Houthi attacks against
civilian ships in the Red Sea.  These are exacerbating regional
tensions, instability, and of course, impacting trade flows.  China
should have a very direct interest in trying to limit that fallout.  So
I suspect that, of course, could come up in conversation again. 

You asked about the U.S. CEOs meeting in Beijing.  Of course, saw the
reports.  I think it’s pretty standard for U.S. CEOs to meet with
Chinese leadership when they go back to China for the CDF, the China
Development Forum.  I think it’s often a two-way conversation.  Of
course, they’re raising their concerns about the business environment as
well. 

But encourage you to reach out to them for more detail on that.  I don’t
have any additional information.

MODERATOR:  Great.  Next, we will go to Demetri with the Financial
Times.

Q    Thank you.  Good evening.  Two questions.  The first is: There
appear to have been no, quote, unquote, “risky and coercive” intercepts
by Chinese fighter jets since San Francisco.  I’m just wondering, why
has China shifted course there?  Was it something that was agreed
between the two sides, or was that a unilateral move by China?

And then separately, is there anything that the U.S. should be doing
differently around the Second Thomas Shoal to make sure that that
flashpoint doesn’t erupt even more?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks for the questions, Demetri.  On
the unsafe intercepts, you know, this has certainly been a feature of
mil-mil communication going way back, just raising these areas of —
raising the chances that an unsafe intercept could very quickly lead to
loss of a ship, loss of an aircraft; it could lead to loss of life. 
Just incredibly risky behavior that could spin up into conflict,
(inaudible) — but could spin us into unanticipated consequences quite
quickly. 

It certainly has been discussed in track two channels.  It’s been
discussed in Secretary Blinken’s meetings, National Security Advisor
Sullivan, and it did come up at Woodside as well. 

I would not say there was an agreement to stop doing this, but we have
consistently raised our concerns about the behavior and how
irresponsible it is in a relationship between — one like between the
United States and China.  I don’t know what motivated China to pull back
from that.  I’d encourage you to reach out to them and see if there’s
any additional detail there. 

But we have seen a reduction in that kind of activity, which is a
welcome sign and a welcome signal of more responsible behavior in some
aspects.  Right?  I would hasten to note, of course, we have not seen a
reduction in some of the unsafe behavior around Second Thomas Shoal and
around some of our other partners’ engagements with China, whether it’s
Japan or Australia, in different areas in the Pacific. 

So a good sign, and hope that we will see additional pullback from some
of that unsafe or risky behavior. 

You asked about a second question, which I foolishly did not write down.

Q    Yeah.  Should the U.S. be doing something differently with the
Philippines around the Second Thomas Shoal to reduce the chances of that
flashpoint erupting in a serious way?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Are you asking me if our policy is
incorrect in any way, Demetri?  (Laughs.)

Q    I’m asking you if it’s perfect.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  (Laughs.)  Look, I think this is an
area — again, another one of longstanding discussion between the United
States and China going back years, going back since the grounding of the
Sierra Madre.  It’s come up in every high-level engagement I’ve recently
been in.  We are increasingly concerned that PRC’s behavior in this
space could lead us closer to, really, unintended consequences, both
with our Philippine partners. 

But of course, we’ve talked about the mutual defense treaty as well. 
We’ve made clear we remain committed to promoting freedom of navigation
and overflight, respect for international law, peaceful resolution of
disputes in the South China Sea, and close coordination with our allies
and partners. 

But I think it’s fair to say just increasingly risky behavior in that
space has us quite concerned and that I expect this will be a topic of
conversation between Japan, Philippines, and the U.S. when the three
leaders meet later this month both trilaterally and bilaterally.

MODERATOR:  Our next question will go to Zeke Miller with the AP.

Q    Thanks so much for doing this.  Just a technical question in terms
of the timing of the call.  When this call comes off embargo, will the
President have already had that conversation, or will it take place in
the future?  Just so we can describe it accurately in our reporting.

And then, will there be any further discussion of a potential — yet
another summit this year?  Obviously, it’s an election year, but some
other face-to-face meeting between the two leaders at the
leader-to-leader level this year.  Thank you. 

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  I’ll take the first, which is: The call
will have occurred by the time the embargo lifts. 

And just another logistical flag for this group: It is likely that we
will move up the lifting of the embargo.  So please be looking out for
outreach from me on that front.

And I will hand the second question over to \[senior administration
official\].

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks so much.  And thanks for the
question, Zeke. 

You know, I think both sides recognize the value in more regular touch
points between the leaders.  We’re doing that now via calls.  I would
anticipate, you know, depending what happens in the coming year, there
would be — we would hope there would be a chance for another in-person
meeting, but don’t have anything even to speculate on when that might
be.  But certainly, value in that in-person meeting and the calls in the
interim.

MODERATOR:  And our last question is going to go to Aurelia End with the
AFP.

Q    Thanks for taking my question.  I was just going to follow up.  How
hard do you expect the President to put pressure on President Xi
regarding the PRC’s links with Iran and Russia?

And another one that’s not about the call itself but somehow related to
the issues in the region.  According to the Yonhap News Agency, North
Korea just fired a ballistic missile into the Sea of Japan.  And I was
wondering whether you could confirm that and also comment maybe.  Thank
you so much. 

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks for that, Aurelia.  On the first
question, Iran/Russia, certainly expect the topic to be raised on the
call. 

You know, on Russia in particular, this has been a part of our
diplomatic conversations with the PRC since the start of Russia’s war on
Ukraine.  Started out talking about lethal assistance and concerns
around that, use of tactical nuclear weapons by Russia in Ukraine.  Both
of those issues, I think thanks in part to the diplomacy not just by the
United States with China but European partners as well, we saw more
positive action from China on. 

But as time has gone on, we’ve really seen the PRC start to help to
rebuild Russia’s defense industrial base, essentially backfilling the
trade from European partners, helping provide the components that get us
slowly towards increasing Russia’s capabilities in Ukraine.  And that
has, of course, longer-term impacts on European security as well, as,
again, you heard from the French foreign minister in Beijing over the
weekend. 

So, quite a bit of concern around this.  China, of course, is a
sovereign country; it will make its own decisions about its
relationships.  But quite concerned about the direction of travel on
this one, and I’m certain it will come up.

You asked as well, sorry, on the missile launch.  I don’t have a comment
on that.  Will perhaps refer you to \[senior administration official\]
to come back on the DPRK missile launch.  But certainly growing concern
about DPRK’s provocations and the risks of its growing economic,
military, and technological partnership with Russia.  You know, we
certainly continue to underscore these concerns to China while also
reiterating our readiness to conduct diplomacy with North Korea and our
determination to take steps to deter further provocations by the DPRK.

MODERATOR:  And with that, we’re going to conclude this evening’s call. 
Thank you all for joining us.  We anticipate that we will issue a
transcript of the call following the call. 

And just as a final reminder, the embargo is currently set to noon
Eastern Time on April 2nd.  Thank you.

 6:35 P.M. EDT
