---
date: '2024-04-11'
modified_time: 2024-04-11 23:02:10-04:00
published_time: 2024-04-11 23:02:09-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/04/11/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-56/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine\_Jean-Pierre"
---
 
2:03 P.M. EDT

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Hey.  Good afternoon, everyone.  
  
Q    Good afternoon.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, thank you — Thursday afternoon.  (Laughter.)  
  
So, a couple of things, and then we’ll go into the Q&A.  
  
I — do I — I sound like I — do I sound like I have an echo?   
  
Q    Yes.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Can we — can we fix the sound?  Does that sound — does
that sound better?  
  
Q    Yeah.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  All right.  Great.  
  
So, from Buffalo — from Buffalo and Kansas City to Uvalde and Monterey
Park, we have seen the epidemic of gun violence tearing apart
communities nationwide, leaving empty seats at dining room tables across
the country.   
  
The President and the Vice President have spent countless hours with
families who have lost loved ones to this senseless violence, and they
all say the same thing: Do something.   
  
These same families and other survivors of gun violence turned their
pain into purpose.  They organized, demanded action, and marched for
their lives.   
  
And thanks to their collective efforts, President Biden signed the
Bipartisan Safer Communities Act, the most significant gun safety law in
nearly 30 years.   
   
Today, we are building on that progress and announcing a new rule that
saves lives by requiring background checks for all gun dealers engaged
in the business of firearm — firearms dealing, including for guns sold
at gun shows and online.   
  
This new rule implements the only significant expansion of background
check requirements since then-Senator Biden helped shepherd the Brady
Bill over the finish line in 1993.    
  
Today’s new action furthers the Biden-Harris administration’s historic
efforts to stop the illegal flow of guns and hold those who supply
firearms used in crime accountable.  But there is still much work to be
done.  
  
President Biden and Vice President Harris continue to call on Congress
to enact universal background checks and finish the job.  
  
Now, as you all have reported, overnight Russia launched another lon- —
loun- — large round of aerial assaults against Ukraine’s energy grid, as
Vladimir Putin continue\[s\] to try to break the spirit — the spirit of
the Ukrainian people and plunge them into darkness.   
  
Russia struck the largest power plant in Kyiv Oblast, as well as power
facilities in five other regions across Ukraine.   
  
As President Zele- — Zelenskyy said in the recent days, Ukraine needs
more air defenses and interceptors to protect its people and critical
infrastructure against Russian missiles and Ir- — Iranian-supplied
drones.   
  
We need the House of Republic- — House of Rep- — Representatives —
Republicans specifically, obviously, but the House of Repre- —
Representatives — to take urgent action to pass the bipartisan national
security supplemental bill so we can send Ukraine more air defenses.   
  
And let me correct myself.  It’s actually the House of Representatives. 
We need Speaker — the Speaker to put that bill on — on the floor because
we know we would get overwhelming support on — from Republicans and
Democrats, obviously.  So, we need to see that bill put on the floor
that was passed overwhelmingly in the Senate.   
  
The strikes in Ukraine over the past 24 hours are another terrible
reminder that Ukraine’s need is critical.   
  
And now, turning over to Gaza, I wanted to provide an update on our
efforts to do all we can to increase the amount of humanitarian
assistance reaching Gaza and ease the humanitarian suffering.   
  
As you know, when President Biden last spoke with Prime Minister
Netanyahu just last week, he was clear that Israel must announce and
implement a series of specific, concrete, measurable steps to address
humanitarian suffering.  
  
The past few days have shown some pra- — some promise.  Israel made the
commitment to open the Ashdod Port for the direct delivery of assistance
into Gaza, to open a new crossing for a new route for assistance to
reach North Gaza, and to significantly increase deliveries from Jordan
directly into Gaza.   
  
And over the past few days, over 1,000 trucks loaded with humanitarian
aid have gotten into Gaza and with over 300 trucks going into Gaza
yesterday — just yesterday alone.   
  
That’s good progress, but it’s still not enough. And we hope to see the
progress continue and accelerate.   
  
This afternoon, President Biden will welcome President Marcos of the
Philippines to the White House for his second meeting at the White House
in as many years.  I know the National Security Advisor — Nat- — Jake
Sullivan spoke to this on Monday, but I will reiterate what he laid out
as well, which is that the President later will host the first-ever
trilateral leaders’ summit between the United States, Japan, and
Philippines.   
  
During President Biden’s meeting with President Marcos, the two
presidents will mark the unprecedented strength of the alliance between
the United States and the Philippines.  The leaders will discuss
initiatives to enhance economic and energy security, bolster maritime
cooperation, invest in critical infrastructure, and deepen
people-to-people ties.  And President Biden will reinforce the ironclad
U.S. alliance commitments to the Philippines.     
  
Following the meeting, the President will host the historic trilateral
leaders’ summit.  As — as leading maritime democracies, the United
States, Japan, and the Philippines share a joint vision for the future
of the Indo-Pacific.  And with this — with this leader-level trilateral,
we are — we are taking our cooperation to new heights.   
  
Our national security advisors met in Tokyo last June to initiate our
trilateral cooperation, and officials from across our three governments
have met on topics as varied as economic security and maritime
cooperation.   
  
Today, the leaders will announce new initiatives to accelerate and surge
high-quality infrastructure investments in the Philippines, enhance
energy — energy security, deepen maritime cooperation, and strengthen
partnerships on technology and cybersecurity.   
  
Our three countries embark on this new era of trilateral cooperation as
trusted equal partners, guided by shared values and an unwavering
commitment to a free, open, peaceful, and prosperous Indo-Pacific.  
  
With that, Darlene, it’s good to see you.  
  
Q    Good to see you too.  Thank you.  To jump off of what you were
saying in your topper about Gaza, the USAID Administrator, Samantha
Power, has said that she accepts as credible reports that famine is
already underway in Northern Gaza.  Does the President and the White
House share that assessment?  And if so, you know, you were talking
about the progress —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — is good, but more needs to be done.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Exactly.  
  
Q    What more can be done?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Exactly.  The progress is good.  More needs to be
done.  I talked about the commitment that Israel had — the Prime
Minister gave to the — to the President just last week, and we talked
ab- — I talked about the port, and I talked about the new border
crossings in Northern Gaza.  We need to see that open up, that move
forward.   
  
But we’ve seen some progress — right? — the opening of more routes and
also more trucks.  As I just laid out, we’ve seen more than 1,000 trucks
in the last three days.   
  
Look, specifically to Samantha Power and her comments, our an- —
understanding is that the latest reporting from the Integrated Food
Security Phase Classification indicates that the famine is imminent in
Gaza.  And that’s why we’re trying to do everything that we can to
uptick, obviously, the humanitarian aid.   
  
We know how dire the situation is in Gaza.  So, we are certainly deeply
concerned about these reports.  And so, we’ve been working around the
clock — around the clock to get more of that aid into Gaza.  And so,
we’re going to continue to do this.  We’re going to continue to push
Israel to increase the flow that is getting into Gaza.   
  
And like I said, we — I’ve laid out their commitments.  There are two
other ways that we want to see their commitment continue, which is that
port that I just mentioned at the top and just moments ago, and — and
so, also those — the routes — the routes in — in Northern Gaza.  
  
So, there is more work to be done.  But, again, a thousand trucks over
the last three days is an improvement.  It’s good promise.  We need to
see more.   
  
Q    Second, was there any reaction from the President to O.J. Simpson’s
death?  Do you know if they ever crossed paths?   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So —  
  
Q    If so, how?  When?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I’ll say this.  Our thoughts are with — with his
families during this difficult time — obviously, with his family and
loved ones.  And I’ll say this — I know that they have asked for some
privacy, and so we’re going to respect that.  I’ll just leave it
there.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks.  Iran is threatening a significant attack against Israel. 
With all of the U.S. assets in the region, will the U.S. provide
assistance in thwarting this attack?  How is the U.S. preparing to
respond?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, you heard from the President directly
yesterday.  He mentioned this at the top of his press conference and
laid out our concerns, certainly, about these threats that are being
made.  And he made very clear as well that America’s support for
Israel’s security is ironclad, especially against these threats against
— that’s coming from Iran and their proxies.   
  
And so, the President made that clear as well when he spoke to
<s>President</s> \[Prime Minister\] Netanyahu just last week.  As I
mentioned moments ago, I want to be really careful.  I’m not going to
get into operational procedures from here.   
  
Beyond that, we’ve made ourselves very, very clear.  The President made
himself very clear just yesterday.  And so, just don’t have anything
else to add beyond that.   
  
Q    But we certainly have done joint strikes against Iranian proxies in
the recent weeks and months.  Should we be braced for joint strikes
against — in response to an Iranian strike against Israel?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — I want to be super mindful.  I don’t want to get
into hypotheticals here.  What we have made very clear — obviously,
we’ve seen the threats coming from Iran.  And so, we have made ourselves
very clear where we stand in supporting Israel’s security.  That is
ironclad.  Does no- — that does not change.  I’m just not going to get
into — into details about our operational procedures from here.   
  
Q    Just one more on this.  General Kurilla is in the Middle East. 
He’s making a stop in Israel.  He’s reportedly there to help, you know,
coordinate with Israel ahead of this expected attack.  What does that
coordination look like?  What does — what does that mean exactly?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I will refer you to CENTCOM.   
  
Go ahead, Jeff.  
  
Q    Karine, just to follow up on that topic.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    Has Iran been in touch via intermediaries with Washington to
indicate that when it responds to Israel’s attack on — on its embassy —
on its Syrian Embassy that it will not escalate?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, obviously, we don’t want this conflict to spread. 
We’ve been very clear about that.  And we’ve been very clear that in —
you know, to Iran that we’re not involved in the Damascus strike. 
Right?  We’ve been also very clear.  
  
I’m not going to get into public back-and-forth.  We communicated to
Iran that the U.S. had no involvement in the strike, as I just
mentioned, that happened in Damascus.  And we warned Iran not to use
this attack as a pretext to escalate further in the region or attack
U.S. facilities or person- — personnel.   
  
I’m going to be super mindful not to — to speak beyond that from here or
elaborate further.  But we’ve been very clear.  
  
Q    Can you say whether Iran has responded to your or the U.S.’s
indications?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m just not going to get into public back-and-forth
from here.   
  
Q    And following up on something that the President said yesterday
with regard to Julian Assange.  He indicated that the U.S. is
considering a deal.  To what extent does the White House and the
President weigh in with DOJ on this, considering that it’s a DOJ-led run
— or a DOJ-led issue?   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, from here, from the podium, I’m not going to go
beyond what the President said.  I’m going to refer you to the
Department of Justice.  I’m just going to be super mindful from the
podium from here.   
  
Q    But he weighed in.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I know.  I’m — I’m going to be super mindful from the
podium.  I’m just not going to go beyond what the President — the
President sa- — shared yesterday.  I would refer you to the Department
of Justice.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    I have questions on two topics, Karine.  First on abortion.  Vice
President Harris is going to Arizona tomorrow to talk about the need for
abortion access in the state.  I know the President’s own views on this
topic have been evolving over the recent decades.  Should we expect him
to be talking in public about this issue?   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So — so, want to be super mindful.  Tomorrow’s event
is a — is a campaign event.  So, going to let the campaign speak to the
Vice President’s engagement.   
  
Q    Is tomorrow a campaign event?  I thought it became official.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  From what I understand, it’s a campaign event.   
  
Q    Okay.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I would refer you to her team, at least — at the
le- — at the least.  But from my understanding, it’s a campaign event. 
So, I’ll leave that there.   
  
But, you know, the President spoke to this.  He was shouted a question
about — about what occurred in Arizona, how devastating and how wrong
the decision to go back to 1864 to make it more difficult for women —
millions of women.   
  
And, you know, he — he talked about that.  So, I certainly will — will
refer you to his comments.   
  
The President has consistently been very clear about where he stands. 
He stands for women’s rights.  He stands for women to be able to make
decisions about their bodies, right?  He — he stands for reproductive
freedom.  He put a statement out right after Arizona made their
decision.    
  
So, he’s been very — you know, very steadfast and out front on this. 
You’re going to hear from the Vice President.  So, you’ll hear directly
from her.  We’ve been really clear.  And all of this — what we’re seeing
right now in states — we have 21 states that have some se- — that have
extreme bans — 21 states across the country.   
  
And a lot of — and that has been caused by the chaos that we have seen
from the overturning of Roe v. Wade.  And that’s because, obviously, of
the Dobbs decision.  It was a — it was a constitutional right for almost
50 years, and that has been taken away from women.   
  
And so, it’s caused chaos.  And we’re going to continue to call that
out.  We should be fighting for women’s rights, women’s freedom,
Americans’ freedom.  And that’s not what — that’s not where Republicans
are.   
  
Q    I know other colleagues have questions.  But I also just want to
ask about the State Dinner, because regulators in the Biden
administration have sued both Amazon and Apple alleging anticompetitive
behavior that has caused public harm.  So, why were executives from
those companies invited to the dinner last?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, when it comes to the State Dinner, we invite an
array of folks to come in.  And — and obviously, you know, it’s — it’s
an important night of — especially when another country comes, it shows
bipartisanship.  It shows the strength of that alliance that the U.S.
has with that particular country.  The — the list varies, you know, and
it — we — it’s always — it’s always different types of people that come
to — to the —  
  
Q    But the Justice Department said, just —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — less than a month ago, that Apple uses its control —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — over the iPhone to engage in a broad, sustained, and illegal
course of conduct —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — saying that that lawsuit should send a strong signal to other
companies.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  And —  
  
Q    So, what signal is the White House sending?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I hear your question.  That’s the Department of
Justice to decide.  I do not —  
  
Q    But the White House choose —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, I —   
  
Q    — who to invite to the dinner.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, I — no, I’m not saying that the DOJ invited —
invited people to the White House state dinner.  That’s not what I’m
saying.  I’m saying DOJ moved forward with that particular case — that
particular lega- — legal action.  I can’t speak to that.  
  
We always invite an array of — of people.  We bring people from all
corners of different industries here to the White House.  That’s what we
do.  And I just don’t have anything else further to share.  And we — you
know, I think it’s important that — that we do that, but I can’t speak
to a DOJ legal case.  They took —  
  
Q    So, the President doesn’t think that those companies did —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — I —  
  
Q    — anything wrong?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  That is a legal action being taken by the Department
of Justice.  I can’t speak to that.  They have their reasons of moving
forward on that.  I — I can’t speak to that.  
  
We invite a — a diverse group of people when it comes to events — not
just state dinners — when it comes to events here — from even different
sides of the — of the aisle.  That’s what — that’s what this President
has done.   
  
I — I can’t speak to what DOJ — and their legal action.  I just can’t
speak to that from here.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you, Karine.  Picking up on abortion.  When the President was
asked yesterday what his message was to the people of Arizona in light
of the ruling, he said, “Elect me.”  So, can you elaborate on what —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — he meant by that?  What can he do for those people?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, a couple of things.  I — I’m going to be careful
because obviously he was talking about 2024.  I mean, look —  
  
Q    Actually, he was talking about the 20th century, as I recall.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Mm-hmm.  Yeah, okay.  
  
So, this extreme abortion ban, as we know, that we see was made possible
because of the Supreme Court.  And we know what the last previous
President said.  He said that, you know, he would — he would make sure
that Roe v. Wade was no longer constitutional law, and he made that
happen and — which has led to — to chaos — to chaos across the board.   
  
And so, I want to be careful for — for, you know, talking about an
upcoming election, so I’m not going to speak to that from here.   
  
But we have seen what’s happened in last almost two years since Roe v.
Wade has been overturned.  We’ve seen women having to be turned away
from emergency rooms, not being given lifesaving — lifesaving needs that
they — they have to get in order to — for their lives to be protected. 
That’s been turned away.   
  
And so, what this President has done is he’s taken executive actions —
as I’ve talked about, we’ve talked about.  He’s created a task force. 
He has done and taken action to do everything that he can from the
executive branch to protect women, but we need more to be done.  We need
more to be done.   
  
And so, you know, we have to get Congress to act to make Roe v. Wade the
law of the land.  And so, that is where we are right now.  But this is —
this is — chaos was started by the overturning of Roe v. Wade.  And
we’ve seen where extreme Republican elected officials have been on this
issue.  We’ve seen that. 

And so, that is something that we’re going to continue to make very
clear to Americans, but I’m not going to speak to the upcoming election
from here.   
  
Q    Okay.  And also, on an interview that the President recently did,
he said, “I think what he’s doing is a mistake.  I don’t agree with his
approach,” talking about Netanyahu.  Can you clarify: What is the
mistake?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, we’ve talked about how the President spoke to
President — Prime Minister Netanyahu just last week; they had a
30-minute conversation.  It was direct.  They have known each other for
some time.  They have spoken over more than a dozen times since October
7th — the tragic, tragic attack that we’ve seen from Hamas, a terrorist
organization.  And they said October 7th — they said October 7th would
be something that they want to see over and over again.  So, they’ve had
those conversations.   
  
Look, the President has been very clear.  I started out this briefing
talking about how humanitarian aid has increased, and that’s because of
conversation — the conversation that the President had with the Prime
Minister.  That’s important.   
  
We need to make sure that civilians are protected.  We need to make sure
that humanitarian aid workers are protected.  The President has said
that.  That is what our focus is going to continue to be, as well as
making sure that this hostage deal gets done — working around the clock
to get that completed so we can get hostages home to their loved
ones.   
  
The President has always been very honest and direct with — with
leaders, including the Prime Minister.   
  
Q    So, does — just one more quick one.  Does the President believe
Netanyahu’s approach, as you sort of just laid out there, is to blame
for the famine that we are now seeing in Gaza?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  What I will say is I — that is not what the President
is saying.  The President has been very clear that more needs to be done
to pro- — to protect innocent civilians.  More work needs to be done to
make sure that humanitarian aid workers — who are doing incredible work,
who are being incredibly brave — are protected.  And so, that is what
we’re speaking to.   
  
And, unfortunately, we’ve seen more than 200 of humanitarian aid workers
die, and that is something we do not want to continue to see.  That’s
why the President had this conversation with the Prime Minister last
week — a 30-minute direct conversation with the Prime Minister on what
needs to be done to continue to protect innocent — innocent civilians. 
That’s why we’re having conversation about that Rafah operations. 
Right?   
  
And our two sides are committed to — con- — moving forward with those
conversations.  They’ve been pr- — they — we’ve seen some progress. 
We’re going to continue to have those conversations.   
  
And Israel has made commitments.  The Prime Minister kept — is — has
made a commitment to the President.  We’ve seen an uptick of trucks —
more than a thousand over the last three days.  That commitment is
continuing.  We want to see more.  That’s good progress.  
  
Go ahead, Justin.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  I also wanted to ask about the Univision
interview.  The President said that he was “examining” ways to
potentially shut down the border.  It’s a phrase that can mean lots of
different things to —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — lots of different people, so I’m wondering if you could maybe
explain what the President means when he talks about shutting —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I think the bottom line with all of this, and I’ve
said this many times: The — the number-one way to really deal with
what’s happening at the border is — is to move forward with the
bipartisan agreement proposal that came forward out of the Senate and
that obviously was rejected by Republicans because of what the former
President told Republicans. 

That’s what we want to see.  That’s how we deal with the broken system —
the immigration system obviously being broken for decades now — and
dealing with the challenges at the border.   
  
We’re always going to look at executive actions.  We are, and we have
been.  But really — really, truly to move forward, we have to make sure
that we get this proposal done.  
  
Q    I — I understand that your preference is obviously for that
legislation to —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — Frankenstein back to life — (laughter) — but since the President
himself said that you guys are looking at those executive actions, can
you talk —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So —

Q    Is it — is the, sort of, universe here just trying to restrict
asylum claims?  Is it changing processing times?  Or is it as extr- —
you know —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So —

Q    — President Trump, when he talked about it, talked about le- —
ending legal travel or legal trade across the border.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I think what — here’s what I can say.  We evaluate all
options.  Right?  We do.  We evaluate all options as it — as it regar- —
as it relates to executive actions.  We just have not made a decision on
this yet.

But we believe, the President believes it’s important to evaluate those
options to see what’s at our disposable — our disposal to move
forward.   
  
And we haven’t made a decision.  But what we will continue to do is —
because there is a proposal out there that is bipartisan, that is —
would deal with what — the challenges that we’re seeing at the border,
we think it’s important.  It was supported by the U.S. Chamber of
Commerce, the — the Border Patrol unions.  It is a bipartisan, again,
proposal that we think would be tough and fair.  We want to see Congress
move forward with it.  And — and so, we’re going to continue to call for
that. 

But as — as it relates to what we’re looking at, we’re always looking at
options.  I just don’t have anything.  We’re always going to evaluate
our options.  I just don’t have anything to share.  We d- — haven’t made
a decision.

Q    And really quickly.  The trilateral today is open to the press, but
the —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — bilateral beforehand is not.  I was wondering, first, of course,
to request that it be possible that we get in there.  But if not, if you
could walk through why the White House decided — because normally those
meetings are —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, no —

Q    — open.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — it’s a meeting between — obviously, between the two
countries.  I think it’s important to note it shows the strength of the
U.S. alliance and how important it is for these two countries to — to
speak with one another and have this meeting.

Look, I will say this.  Their schedules, the — both schedules were —
were, you know, the President and the Philippines leader have a very
packed schedule.  And so, we weren’t able to make it into — open that to
the press. 

But what is important is there is going to be a trilat, which is a
historic meeting that’s happening later today.  And you’ll have an
opportunity — obviously, that is open to the press.  And you’ll have an
opportunity there to see the three leaders together.

Go ahead.

Q    Two quick ones.  First, following up on Weijia.  In the White
House’s view, who is to blame for the famine or imminent famine that
we’re witnessing right now in Gaza?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Here’s our focus.  And — and I — I get the — the
question.  And — and, you know — and the humanitarian situation in Gaza,
obviously, is dire.  And that is why the President is doing everything
that he can to get more humanitarian aid in.  And that’s what our focus
is going to be.

Q    Was it a mistake —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Our focus —

Q    Was it a mistake not to push Benjamin Naten- — Netanyahu sooner to
open Ashdod and Erez crossing, which would have allowed the prevention
of what Samantha Power agrees is famine in Northern Gaza right now?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  But here’s the thing.  For — every time the President
has spoken to the Prime Minister, there’s — part of that conversation
has been to do more on humanitarian aid.

Q    So, why did it change now?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  It didn’t change.  It is a — it was a continued — it
was the conversation that — that —

Q    Why did Netanyahu respond differently now?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  That’s a c- — that’s a conversation with — for the
Prime Minister.

Q    It wasn’t the potential that the U.S. would change policy —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  It —

Q    — as the President said?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  That is — that is a c- — that is a question for the
Prime Minister.  But what I want to make sure that is very clear here is
that we have seen a thousand trucks go — go into Gaza over the last
three days.  That is important.

They have — the Prime Minister made commitments.  They are upholding
their commitments.  We want to see more.  We’ve seen good progress.  And
what we’re seeing in Gaza — obviously, we have said over, over again
that the situation — the humanitarian situation in Gaza is dire.

Q    Can you help me — last question.  Can you help me understand one
thing?  Yesterday, the President made very clear that the U.S.’s
commitment to Israel is, in his words — he said it twice —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — “ironclad.”  
  
How can the U.S.’s commitment to Israel be, quote, “ironclad” when, in
the statement released on behalf of the White House last week after his
conversation with Benjamin Netanyahu, he said that the U.S. would
reassess its policy as it relates to Israel given the way it prosecutes
the war in Gaza?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, the Pre- —

Q    How can it be ironclad and be reassessed?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, this is an important relationship that we have
with Israel.  It is a — they are our friends.  And we have always said
that we are committed to make sure that Israel’s security, especially
against these threats that we’re hearing from Iran, that they are
protected. 

And we — and that is ironclad.  We’ve always been consistent there.  And
we’re going to continue to be very clear about that.

The President made sure to put that at the top of his press conference
because he wanted to continue that message, continue the message of
making sure that America — we support Israel’s security, especially
against these threats that we’re hearing from Iran and, also, their —
their proxies.  And so, that hasn’t changed.  That hasn’t changed.

Q    Thank you, Karine.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.

Q    Just another on Israel.  House Republicans are expected to bring up
this resolution that’s critical of the President’s work with Netanyahu. 
They say in the resolution they oppose efforts to place one-sided
pressure on Israel with respect to Gaza, including calls for an
immediate ceasefire.

Does the White House have any view on the resolution?  Is this
constructive?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, we believe the entire premise of — of the
resolution is — is certainly flawed — is flawed, as — as it — as it
claim of one-sided pressure against Israel, which this administration
has supported militarily, diplomatically, and in — in myriad of other
ways, both since October 7th and from our first day in office. 

So, we oppose it.  And we call on members to vote against it.

Q    And just one more.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    The steelworkers union David McCall — leader — David McCall, was at
the dinner last night.  You know, he obviously opposes this — this deal
with Nippon Steel.  Was — was he invited because of this pending deal? 
Was it —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No.

Q    — an opportunity to allow him to speak to Japanese leadership?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I wouldn’t make that connection.  I wouldn’t make that
connection.

Go ahead.

Q    Thank you, Karine.  I just want to clarify one of your earlier
answers.  Did the administration send a direct warning to Iran not to
attack Israel?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We’ve been very clear.  I’ve — I’ve — we’ve been — I
mean, you heard from the President — right? — and laid out our
commitment to Israel and make sure Israel’s security — that continues.

And so, we’ve had those conversations.  I’m just not going to go into
back-and-forth publicly.

Q    Well, the reason that I think it’s important to know is because you
— you just shared earlier that, you know, the U.S. was quick to tell
Iran directly that we had nothing to do with the strike in Damascus. 
The President hasn’t minced words on his feelings about Netanyahu.  But
we haven’t gotten a very clear answer on whether it was communicated
directly to Iran, “Don’t attack our ally.”

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I just said we communicated to Iran.  I just said
that.  I said we’re not going to go into b- — public back-and-forth on
this.  But I said we communicated to Iran and we said had no
involvement.  That’s what I said — right? — on the strike in Damascus
and warned Iran.  We warned Iran.

So, I said that at the top and I’ll say —

Q    That was my only question.  Thank you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.

Q    On the issue of inflation.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    There was a report in Politico on Tuesday that the former Chief of
Staff, Ron Klain, was teeing off on the President’s, you know, talking
about bridges all the time when he’s out on the campaign trail and not
talking enough about the prices that people are paying.  We didn’t get
any statement today on the PPI index.  You know, why — why aren’t we
hearing more from the White House about the issues that people are
facing at grocery stores and paying rent?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, the State of the Union, the President made
very clear about what — he understands what the Americans are facing. 
And he’s talked at almost every — every event that he’s had —
crisscrossing the country after the State of the Union — about lowering
costs, how important it is, and how there’s more work to do.  You hear
that.  
  
In New Hampshire and North Carolina, he spoke about his work to lower
healthcare costs.  In La- — Las Vegas, he discussed his plan to build
and renovate — renovate 2 million homes to lower housing costs.  In
Madison, he announced his student debt re- — relief plan.   
  
He also spoke with Senator Sanders just last week about his progress
lowering costs for prescription drugs and inhalers.   
  
This week, he spoke about plans to lower costs for childcare, home
healthcare, eldercare.  He talks about lowering costs almost every
event.  I just laid out the events that he did in March and in early
April about how he’s making sure that — the number-one economic concerns
that American have are lowering costs.   
  
And just like Ron — Ron said this.  He said that the President has been
— he believes — he believes in what the President has been doing in
crisscrossing the country and talking about the state of the Union and
talking about how we’re going to continue to cut costs for Americans and
making sure that we do not give big tax giveaways to corporations.   
  
That’s what Republicans are talking about.  They put out their — their
budget, and their budget is to cut Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid. 
That’s what they want to do.  And we’re doing the opposite.  We’re
trying to protect that and lower costs for Americans.  
  
Q    Is it at all inappropriate for the President to be commenting on
what the Fed might or might not do with interest rate cuts?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, the President, unlast — unlike the last one,
has been very clear about giving the Fed the space to make independent
decisions about how they’re going to move forward on their monetary
decisions.  The President has always been very clear about that, and
he’ll continue to do so.   
  
And in his comment yesterday, he was also clear.  He said, “We don’t
know what the Fed is going to do.”  And he was simply reflecting on
public interpretation of recent datas, but he also said, “We do not know
what the Fed is going to do.”   
  
And we’ve always given them the space to make those decisions — those
monetary decision independently and make sure that, again, they have the
space to do that.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    There’s been some discrepancies between what Israel is saying in
terms of the number of trucks getting into Gaza that are full of aid
versus some other aid groups, including the United Nations.  So, how is
the White House exactly measuring what “good progress” is?   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, I — I’m not going to get into the
nitty-gitty — -gritty here.  I will leave it up to — up to — up to — up
to them to speak to what they’re seeing.  But we believe — I mean, we’re
talking about a thousand trucks in over three days.  That matters — a
thousand trucks.  
  
Q    But a lot of the U.N. folks are saying that some of those trucks
are not completely full.  There are trucks that are half full that are
being counted.  So, what are the measurements here in terms of what is
effective aid delivery?   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I think when we are hearing more than a thousand
trucks and we’re seeing that — we’re — I just said 300 trucks just
yesterday — that matters.  There’s more — there’s more access being
allowed.  The trucks are being allowed to come in.  That matters.   
  
And so, look, that’s what — that’s what we are — we’re continuing to
see.  We believe that Israel is keeping their promise.   
  
There’s more work to be done.  Right?  We need to see the ports open. 
We need to — we need to see that as well.   
  
But we’re seeing progress here.   
  
Q    And in —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We’re seeing progress.  
  
Q    And in terms of the distribution once the trucks are in — I mean,
northern Gaza, obviously, experiencing a lot more famine that’s setting
in, as was talked about earlier.  What is the White House tracking?  Or
how is the White House, if at all, trying to facilitate some of the
distribution?  And are — are there concerns about how it’s getting to
the regions where it most needs to be?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, we’re going to continue to have
conversations with the Israeli government on how they’re — how these —
how this aid is being distributed.  We want to make sure — it is
important.  Here’s what is important: It is important that the innocent
people in — in Gaza, the Palestinians, get that im- — all-important
aid.  We know what’s going on there.  Obviously, it’s dire.   
  
And so, we’re going to continue to have those diplomatic conversations,
be very straightforward with our — with our Israel counterparts here.   
  
But they made a promise.  We’re seeing a difference here.  We’re seeing
aid getting in.  Of course, it’s not going to be enough.  Right?  Of
course, we need to see more progress.  Of course, we know what the — how
dire the situation is in Israel — and I’m sorry, in — in Gaza.   
  
And so, we’re going to continue to have those conversation with Israel
government.   
  
Yeah.  
  
Q    Yeah, thanks, Karine.  You said President Biden still hasn’t made a
decision on taking executive action on the border.  Why is there a
holdup on making a final decision on this?  What factors are being
considered before the White House makes a call on this matter?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I mean, look, Joe, we — we spent a couple of
months working with the Senate Republicans and Democrats to make sure
that we came up with a bipartisan solution to deal with the border —
right? — to deal with the challenges at the border.  We believe that
that was the best way — we still believe that’s the best way to move
forward because it would be tough, it would be fair, and — and it’s
gotten support from places that you would never think — right? — the
U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the Border Patrol union.  That’s important.   
  
And so, we believe that is the best way to move forward here.  We’re
always going to evaluate other options as it relates to executive
action.  But we are continuing to be clear here: The best way to move
forward is to get that bipartisan proposal forward and for, you know,
Republicans to not pick politics here, to pick a majority of the
American people.  
  
Q    I mean, is a matter of there being concerns about opening the
administration up to litigation on this with executive a- — action, or
—  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, that’s why we came up with the bipartisan
proposal — right? — because we believe that the way to actually deal
with this is legislation.  The — the way to actually deal with this is
to turn legislation into law, obviously.   
  
And so, that is the best way to move forward.  And no executive action
is going to have the full — the full resources that we need to — to get
this done — to get this done.   
  
We’re going to evaluate all of our options, as we’ve been saying, but we
have to continue to be really clear here.  Republicans need to act. 
They need to move forward.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you.  Following up on my colleagues Weijia and Peter.  You
said earlier that the President is doing everything he can on getting
humanitarian aid into Gaza.  I have to respectfully suggest that that’s
not true, because it took until seven aid workers were killed last week
for the President to even suggest that he would change U.S. policy and
possibly condition humanitarian — condition defense aid on the
humanitarian situation in Israel. 

So, how can you stand there —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — and say the President is doing everything he can when, for weeks
and weeks and weeks now, even as NGOs and aid groups warned that famine
was imminent, he continued to refuse to pull on that lever and link
defense aid to humanitarian aid.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, first of all, the President has done airdr- —
we’ve done airdrops.  We’re going to do this pier.  We’ve talked about,
for the past several months, how we need to do more and how we’re going
to uptick our efforts to get that humanitarian aid into Gaza.   
  
We understand what’s going on.  We understand that the dire — it — what
it — the dire needs there are.  And so, the President has — we’ve
announced we’re going to do this pier.  Right?  We’ve done — done this
airdrops.   
  
And so, we have had the conversation with the Prime Minister multiple
times, with the Israeli government almost every day on what needs to be
done.  And we’ve had those conversations with them.   
  
And so, now we are seeing an uptick.  That is important.  That is indeed
what we want to see.  We’ve also been working on doing this hostage
deal.  The President has been working around the clock.   
  
So, I take — I take offense to what you’re saying because it isn’t
true.  The President has been working on this hostage deal for months
now — for months now.   
  
Q    Respectfully, the hostage deal that —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, wait — for months now.  And that is a way to make
sure that there is a temporary ceasefire that could pr- — hopefully lead
to something longer, get those hostages home, and get humanitarian
aid.   
  
And so, that is what we have been also focusing on really diligently —  
  
Q    But — but —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — for the last t- —  
  
Q    But with all due respect, Karine —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    With all due respect —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.   
  
Q    — my question was on the humanitarian situation in Gaza and the
famine, which has been something that aid groups —  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  But that’s the same —  
  
Q    — have warned about for weeks.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  The hostage deal includes humanitarian aid getting
into Gaza.   
  
Q    But —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  That’s what he’s been working on — this humanitarian
aid to get into Gaza — and, also, get those hostages home.   
  
Q    But why — why is it — because it sounds like —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  But you’re saying that we haven’t done anything.  
  
Q    No.  No.  I —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, but — no, but it’s what you’re saying.  
  
Q    You said the President has done — has been doing all he can.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  He’s been working 24/7, around the clock —   
  
Q    I have — I have —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — to do what he can —  
  
Q    — no doubt.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  But —  
  
Q    But he has not — he has not until recently even suggested that he
would condition military aid, which Israel needs, on them allowing food
and humanitarian aid into Gaza, which the people of Gaza need.  That has
been — I hate to use the term —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — a red line every time I or any of my colleagues have asked —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m — I’m not —  
  
Q    — in this briefing room about this.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  And you’ve heard from the National Security Advisor. 
I’m not going to get into red lines from here.   
  
Here’s what I can say: The hostage deal includes getting the
humanitarian aid in.  We’ve been working on that.  We’ve been working on
getting that hostage deal done.  We’re going to continue to do that.   
  
You’ve heard us say that we’ve worked around the clock to get those
hostages home — which, by the way, includes American hostages as well —
and getting that aid in.  We know how dire the situation is — is in
Gaza.  We are very aware of that.   
  
And we’ve had conversations almost every day with our counterparts in
the Israeli government.  We’ve had conversations, more than a dozen,
with the Prime Minister.   
  
And so, it is important — it is important to get that aid in.  We
understand that.  We understand that, and we’re going to have those
conversations every day to make sure that it continues.  
  
Q    Thank you.  And one un- — one more, unrelated.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    Earlier this week, the former President met with Lord Cameron, the
British Foreign Secretary.  He has, in recent weeks, met with Viktor
Orbán, the leader of Hungary.  He has said he’s spoken to Mohammed bin
Salman, the de facto leader of Saudi Arabia.  There is a long history of
Republican presidential candidates meddling in foreign policy to
undermine their Democratic opponents.  
  
Without getting into Hatch Act territory — you know, telling people to
vote for or against someone — is the administration concerned that this
private citizen could be working against U.S. interests in the interests
of his own political ones?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  And you’re talking about his meeting specifically with
—  
  
Q    With — with foreign leaders: Lord Cameron, his talking with MBS,
Viktor Orbán, and others possibly.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, a- — look, as it relates to other — other
leaders and those types of meetings — specifically, let’s — let’s talk
about David Cameron.  The UK noted earlier this week it is common for
officials from other countries to meet with representatives of different
parties.  That includes the United States, as we routinely meet with
political leaders of different parties as well.   
  
For instance, we hosted Israeli opposition leader Yair Lapid yesterday —
at the beginning of the week — at the beginning of the week.  And so,
it’s not uncommon.   
  
I am going to be really careful here, because you’re talking about a
presidential candidate.  I’m going to be really mindful.  I used David
Cameron as an example.  But I’m going to be really mindful.  I’m not
speaking beyond that.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  Governor Moore is apparently on the Hill today. 
He was there earlier this week meeting with lawmakers.  Is — has he been
down to the White House to meet with officials to talk about funding for
the bridge?  And can you give us an update on the President’s
conversations with lawmakers to get that funding moving forward?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, we — yeah, look, we have said to Congress that we
want to continue to work with them to make sure that the Key Bridge is
back up and that the — Baltimore gets what it needs, certainly, to — to
be whole again.  And obviously, we’re getting that port open.   
  
We’ve been in regular touch with Governor Moore.  You know the President
was with him very recently.  And they have had continuous conversations
about what Baltimore needs.   
  
The President said, when he was in Baltimore: We will be with Baltimore
and the — and the state of Maryland for as long as they need to get this
done.   
  
I don’t have a specific readout to share with you.  But we’ve been in
regular communication.  Our Office of Leg Affairs has been in regular
communication with members of Congress.  Our — our Intergovernmental
Affairs folks, Tom Perez, has been leading on this issue as it relates
to Baltimore and the needs there.   
  
And also, let’s not forget our — our Department of Labor has been very
involved, as well, in making sure — you know, dealing with the economic
situation and how we can help on that front as well.   
  
So, don’t have anything to read out as far as the conversations, but —  
  
Q    And —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — we’ve been there for them.   
  
Q    And is there any better sense now that we’re, you know, a coup- —
another week passed this — and the President’s conversation last week
and the briefing he got there — on an estimate of how much this is going
to cost?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I don’t have an estimate for you.  We’re going to
talk to our — our — the Maryland delegation, have those conversation. 
Don’t have an estimate for you to share — to share.   
  
DO- — Department of Transportation announced $60 million really right —
right aft- — the week after the — the bridge collapsed.  And so, we know
that’s — that’s there to help.  
  
Don’t have a — a final estimation.  Obviously, we’re going to continue
to talk to the delegation.  
  
Go ahead, Jon.   
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  Back in late December, President Biden, in
response to a question that I asked him, said that he could not think of
one reason for presidents to receive total immunity from prosecution. 
Four months later, does the President continue to have that same
belief?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Don’t have anything beyond what the President shared
with you.   
  
Q    And in two weeks’ time, a Supreme Court case will happen.  It’s
Donald J. Trump vs. the United States.   
  
Earlier this week, there was an amicus brief that was filed by more than
a dozen retired generals and admirals opposing this legal theory that
Donald Trump and his lawyers have that he does have total immunity from
criminal prosecution.  Does the White House, the administration plan to
file an amicus brief of their own on this particular issue?   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I would refer you to the Department of Justice.  
  
Q    Is there any effort to have the former presidents — that you know
of — to file an amicus brief taking one side or another on this
particular issue?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Say that one more time.  
  
Q    Is there any effort that you are aware of of the former presidents,
the predecessors of President Biden — President George W. Bush,
President Bill Clinton, President Barack Obama, Jimmy Carter — to file a
joint amicus brief, either taking a position one way or another on this
particular matter?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  I’m going to ask you about inflation.  So,
yesterday in the Rose Garden, the President said that when — when he
came into office, inflation was skyrocketing.  But it was 1.4 percent in
January of 2021, and that was the 11th consecutive month, at that time,
under 2 percent.  So, was the President misleading Americans?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, when — when the President took office — and you
know this — there was a pandemic.  It was closing down businesses,
closing down schools.  And so, it was drastically disrupting the supply
chain.  Let’s not forget about that.  And — and so, that’s what was
going on.  And that caused inflation around the world to increase.  We
know that.   
  
And — and then further increasing inflation was the — the Russia’s war —
Russia’s war in Ukraine.  And in fact, many other countries are even
worse off because of — of that — of — because of what we seen with
Russia’s war.   
  
So, the President took historic action to deal with the disruption of
the supply chain.  Let’s not forget what he did with the Strategic
Petroleum Reserve.   
  
And so, we have made progress in lowering costs.  We’ve made progress in
dealing with inflation.   
  
But that’s what was happening when we walked in: the pandemic, the
disruption of the supply chain.  All of these things were happening when
the President walk — took office.  
  
Q    But the President didn’t say “the supply chain was being
disrupted.”  He said “inflation was skyrocketing.”   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  But that’s what he was referring to.  Right?  That’s
what was going on.  Those were the things that were happening right
before us.  The pandemic — it was taking thousands of lives a day when
he — when he took office; schools were closed — were — a majority of
schools were closed; businesses were closing; and we had a supply chain
that was disrupted.  And so, that’s what the President was speaking to
and laying out.   
  
And then inflation — down the road — became even more — increased even
more because of the war that Russia had t- — had — had taken on into
Ukraine.   
  
Q    But the Fed’s — the Fed’s supply chain measure actually went down
in November at that time.  So — so, is the President being honest about
inflation?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  The President has said what — he — he said what he saw
when he was — when he took — when he took office.  The pandemic was
happening, right?  It disrupted the supply chain.  We know — you know
what happens when the supply chain is disrupted.  You know what that
leads to.  And so, that’s what he was speaking to.   
  
And not only that, we — he had to — we also saw a war in Ukraine that —
that Mr. Putin, an aggressive — aggression that Mr. Putin was — was
putting into Ukraine — set forth.  And so, the President had to take
historic action, take aggressive action in dealing with the disruption
in the supply chain.  He had to — he released the Strategic Petroleum
Reserve so that we can deal with the supply chain.   
  
And he continued to take action to lower costs.  And that’s what we’ve
seen — whether it’s healthcare costs, whether it’s dealing with junk
fees, whether it’s prescription drugs — lowering those costs.  That’s
what the President took action in.  
  
But we saw what was happening when the President took office.  We
did.   
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.  Okay.   
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  As you know, there — there’s a tradition, dating
back to the Truman administration, of offering intelligence briefings to
major party presidential nominees.  President Trump was declared the
presumptive nominee on March 6th.  Has the White House offered intel
briefings to former President Trump?  And if so, how — have they
begun?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I would refer you to the ODNI.  That’s for them to
speak to.  
  
Thanks, everybody.  
  
Q    Thank you, Karine.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  See you tomorrow.   
  
2:51 P.M. EDT
