---
date: '2024-04-16'
modified_time: 2024-04-19 11:03:04-04:00
published_time: 2024-04-16 18:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/04/16/press-call-by-national-economic-advisor-lael-brainard-and-senior-administration-officials-previewing-president-bidens-remarks-on-steel/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Call by National Economic Advisor Lael Brainard and Senior Administration\
  \ Officials Previewing President\_Biden\u2019s Remarks on\_Steel"
---
 
*Via Teleconference*

5:06 P.M. EDT  
  
MR. KIKUKAWA:  Good afternoon, everyone.  And thank you for joining our
call previewing President Biden’s remarks tomorrow at the United
Steelworkers headquarters in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.   
  
This ca- — call will feature on-the-record remarks from National
Economic Advisor Lael Brainard and background questions and answers with
senior administration officials.   
  
For your awareness and not for reporting, those administration officials
are \[senior administration official\], \[senior administration
official\], and \[senior administration official\].  
  
The content of this call and accompanying materials are embargoed until
tomorrow at 5:00 a.m. Eastern time.  If you did not receive the
materials, please email me.  
  
With that, I’ll turn it over to Lael to kick us off.  
  
MS. BRAINARD:  Well, thank you, and thanks to everyone for joining us
this afternoon.   
  
As you know, President Biden grew up in Scranton, Pennsylvania. 
President Biden understands that American steel built our nation and
steel mills helped to build the American middle class with good-paying
union jobs in communities in states like Pennsylvania and Ohio.  
  
The President is committed to ensuring that American infrastructure and
industies — industries of the future, like clean energy and electric
vehicles, will be made here in America using American steel made by
American workers.  The President understands we must invest in American
manufacturing, but we also have to protect those investments and those
workers from unfair exports associated with China’s industrial
overcapacity.  
  
Our Investing in America Agenda is working.  Spending on manufacturing
facility construction has more than doubled since President Biden took
office.  Manufacturing employment is up almost 800,000 on his watch,
higher than at any point under the previous administration.   
  
While the previous administration failed to secure an infrastructure
law, President Biden delivered more than 50,000 infrastructure projects
so far: roads, bridges, rail, and ports.  And he committed that those
projects would be made with American steel by — made by American
steelworkers.  
  
However, China’s policy-driven overcapacity poses a serious risk to the
future of the American steel and aluminum industry.  China cannot export
its way to recovery.  China is simply too big to play by its own
rules.  
  
In manufacturing sectors like steel, China is already producing more
than China or the world can easily absorb.  China’s subsidies and other
forms of support lead to exports flooding global markets at artificially
low prices, undercutting American steel that is cleaner.  
  
Tomorrow, the President will travel to Pittsburgh, to the United
Steelworkers headquarters, to talk about actions that he will take to
help protect American steel and American steelworkers. 

The President’s approach is strategic, balanced, and targeted, and it
has been developed in close partnership with industry stakeholders and
unions who have directly lived through the impacts of China’s unfair
trade practices for years.  
  
It is also an approach where we are working with our partners and allies
who also are feeling the effects of China’s overcapacity and
artificially low-priced exports.  
  
President Biden has made it clear that his vision for the future is one
that doesn’t leave American workers and communities behind.  And today
he continues to deliver on that promise.   
  
And with that, I’m going to turn it over to my colleagues to talk in
greater detail about the actions he will discuss.  
  
MR. KIKUKAWA:  Thanks so much, Lael.  We’ll now take some questions.  If
you have a question, please raise your hand using the “raise hand”
function, and we will call on you.  
  
The first hand I see is from Trevor Hunnicutt.  You are now able to
unmute.  
  
Q    Thanks so much for taking the question.  Could you talk a little
bit about why these tariffs are necessary given the Section 232 tariffs
that already exist and — and triple-digit tariffs on, you know,
product-specific categories? 

And then also curious if you could give an update on — on what’s
happening with the U.S. Steel deal and whether the President is going to
use his authorities under CFIUS or DOJ to — to block that deal now that
he’s come out in opposition to it.  Thank you.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Great.  Thanks for that question.  I
think I can take the first part.   
  
I think you rightly note that we’ve had 232 tariffs already in place,
but I think as Director Brainard noted, President Biden has passed
landmark legislations that together are driving greater investments in
the manufacturing industry, and we are seeing tremendous job growth as
well as investments across the board.  
  
So, you know, we also know, at the same time as our economy is
experiencing this relative strength, China’s economy is increasingly
dependent upon export-led growth to essentially support their growth. 
So, there is growing concern against, you know, a new export surge that
may be impacting global markets.   Secretary Yellen has also spoken
about this.  So, it’s critical that we get ahead of this surge to
protect our workers.  
  
I think you already know that China alone accounts for almost 50 percent
of global steel production.  China is producing more steel than it can
utilize domestically.  And as they think about expanding their
export-led growth, of course, steel is an important channel through
which it is likely to take place.  And if you look at prices, China’s
export steel prices are 40 percent lower than U.S. steel prices.  And,
therefore, it’s important that, you know, these new tariffs, if acted,
provide a more level playing field against China’s unfair trade
practices in steel and aluminum.  
  
And I think as to your second question, which was about U.S. Steel, I
think nothing new to add.  I think the President has already spoken and
said that, you know, it’s important that U.S. Steel remains a
domestically owned and operated company.  And, you know, I think the
President will make that clear again. He has told the steelworkers he
will have <s>his</s> \[their\] backs, and he means it.  
  
MR. KIKUKAWA:  Great.  We’ll now turn it over to Josh Wingrove.  
  
Q    Hi there.  Thank you.  Can you talk a little bit about the Mexico
provisions here?  Did you consider actual tariffs on Mexico or on
Chinese steel from Mexico?  Is this more of a warning?  Just wo- —
wondering if you can walk us through that decision process.  Thank
you.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  I can take that question.  Look, we’ve
got a senior team in Mexico today, and I want to emphasize our desire to
cooperate and partner with Mexico on addressing imports coming into the
North American market as a way of circumventing tariffs.   
  
So, I’m not going to get ahead of the diplomatic conversations that have
happened today and that will be happening in the days and weeks to
come.  But I think we’re hoping to come to a mutually acceptable
solution with Mexico because this is a problem that affects both of our
economies.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  But I just want to just also jump in
here and just say that the — the President’s calling on USTR to consider
tripling the 301 tariffs specifically for Chinese imports on steel and
aluminum.  
  
MR. KIKUKAWA:  Great.  We’ll now turn it over to Doug Palmer.  
  
Q    Hi.  Thanks for taking my question.  So, just on the recommendation
that USTR consider urging — consider tripling the tariffs, I mean, how
does that — how does that work?  Is that a foregone conclusion that the
301 tariffs would go to 25 percent?   
  
And in terms of the shipbuilding probe, one of the things that the
steelworkers have asked for is a port fee.  They talked about, like, a
hypothetical million-dollar port fee on a 20,000 TEU ship that visits
the United States.  Would you expect the 301 investigation to — to lead
to a finding like that?  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Hi.  This is \[senior administration
official\].  Happy to jump in on these questions.  And, colleagues,
please feel free to supplement.   
  
With respect to the first part of your question, so the President is
calling on the Trade Representative to consider raising and up to
tripling the steel and aluminum tariffs under the four-year review.   
  
The first step would be conclusion of the four-year review.  And, as you
know, that statutory review is ongoing.  We hope to see results on that
review soon.  
  
And based on the findings of that review, then further responsive action
and enhancing the effectiveness of the tariffs could be taken into
account, consistent with the President’s call.  
  
With respect to your question on the ships investigation, so the Trade
Representative will be initiating the investigation on ships tomorrow. 
That will launch an investigation into China’s acts, policies, or
practices and their burden of restriction on U.S. commerce.   
  
So, it’s a little premature to talk about potential responsive actions
now.  It’s only if there are affirmative findings, affirmative
determinations that the acts, policies, or practices exist and burden or
restrict U.S. commerce that the Trade Representative would then turn to
consider responsive action.  Thanks.  
  
MR. KIKUKAWA:  Thanks, Doug.  We’ll now turn it over to Andy Duehren.  
  
Q    Hi.  Thanks for taking my question.  I just wanted to ask on these
concerns about Chinese overcapacity and production — if that is limited
to steel?  I mean, obviously, you’re seeing that in a few different
sectors in China or people are seeing that in a few different sectors in
China, but obviously you’re only singling out steel.  And so, I’m
curious if the administration’s concerns are limited to that sector or
if they go beyond that.  Thanks.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks for that question.  I think, as
you know, Secretary Yellen, returning from her trip from China, has also
outlined serious overcapacity concerns in, for example, solar.  This is
not a one-sector export surge or policy-driven industrial overcapacity
issue; it’s a multisectoral challenge, of course.  But today’s actions
that the President is proposing are focused on steel and aluminum.  
  
MR. KIKUKAWA:  Great.  Now we’ll turn it over to Demetri.  
  
Q    Thank you.  I’ve got two questions.  The first is on the tariffs. 
How much leeway does USTR have to not accept the recommendation from the
President?   
  
And then on shipbuilding.  Given that the U.S. is really, frankly, just
to — kind of a bit player globally now — when you look at all the ships
being built in China, South Korea, and Japan — is this investigation
intended to try and bring shipbuilding back to the U.S. or just come to
an outcome where, as someone said earlier, you impose port fees to try
and get some money out of the Chinese for what they’re doing?  Thank
you.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Hi.  This is \[senior administration
official\] again.  
  
Well, with respect to the first question, the tariffs, I can just say:
So, the President is calling on the Trade Representative to consider
tripling tariffs consistent with the findings and the outcome of the
statutory review, which is akin to an investigation.  And so, the Trade
Representative would consider that as part of the — the next step after
making findings, which is, you know, review of the effectiveness and
looking to enhance the effectiveness of the tariffs that are in place
under the — the Section 301 — existing Section 301 action.  
  
With respect to the new Section 301 investigation, we think that the
labor unions — five national labor unions — have raised very serious
concerns with respect to China’s pursuit of dominance in the maritime
logistics and shipbuilding sector.  So, the petition is extensive.  It
raises a number of very significant concerns and presents a lot of
evidence in relation to China’s nonmarket policies and practices through
which it pursues its dominance with significant impacts on U.S. workers
and on the U.S. industry.  
  
So, we take those allegations very seriously and intend to conduct a
thorough investigation into them.  Thanks.  
  
Q    Can I just quickly follow up and ask: If — if nothing is going to
be decided until after the 301 review, why is the President coming out
now with a recommendation?  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  I think it’s appropriate as part of the
President’s consideration with respect to actions on steel and aluminum
to consider, you know, the application of Section 301 tariffs to this
sector.  This is a sector that was targeted by China with respect to
some of its force technology transfer policies and practices.   
  
And as part of re- — our review, we consider the tariffs’ impact on the
U.S. economy and how they can be made more effective in seeking to
address China’s policies and practices.  And so, that’s why there is a
focus on the use of Section 301 tariffs for this sector at this time.   
  
Q    Thank you.  
  
MR. KIKUKAWA:  Thank you.  We will now turn it over to Gabe
Gutierrez.   
  
Q    Hi.  Thanks so much for doing this.  I guess, what would you say to
critics who say these tariffs will raise consumer prices, heat up
inflation, or those, you know, who say it’s only — it’s only happening
in an election year?  And that’s one question.   
  
Then, secondly, is this a continuation of the trade war started by the
prior administration?  How would you respond to that?  Thank you.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Well, thank you for that — thank you
for that question.  If taken, these actions will not increase inflation,
but they will protect American jobs and steel industry.   
  
Let me just lay out why we see no impact on inflation at all.  First is
inflation has come down more than 60 percent.  Right now, residual
inflation is not coming from goods.  These actions will not change
that.  
  
Second, as you know, the President’s approach has been to invest in key
sectors and expand the supply side of our economy, which has contributed
to lowering inflation.  And as we are seeing manufacturing rebound, it’s
important to protect those gains.  
  
Third, our trade actions are actually strategic and balanced.  President
Biden will not impose ineffective, across-the-board tariffs that would
increase costs and harm hundreds of thousands of jobs.  In fact, the
imports of steel from China account for about 0.6 percent of total U.S.
steel demand.  So, it’s quite small, and we see no inflationary
passthrough.   
  
But it is important for us to get ahead of China’s new export surge and
their continued pressure on prices that I made — that makes it hard for
American steel companies to compete.  Because, if left unaddressed, it
can be quite costly to workers, as we have learned from previous cycles
of overcapacity and surges.   
  
And that’s why we’re proposing these actions.  It has nothing to do with
elections.  I think it has to do with the fact that we’re actually
acting from a place of self-confidence and strength because our economy
is growing and manufacturing is rebounding thanks to all the investments
the President has made.  And it’s important to safeguard and shield
those investments from unfair competition from abroad.  
  
Q    Thank you.  
  
MR. KIKUKAWA:  All right.  With that, we, I think, have run out of
time.  If you have any other questions, please feel free to email them
to me.  
  
Again, this call is embargoed until 5:00 a.m. tomorrow.  The remarks
from NEC Director Lael Brainard were on the record, and the Q&A was on
background as “senior administration officials.”  
  
Thank you.  
  
  5:24 P.M. EDT  

\# \# \#
