---
date: '2024-04-24'
modified_time: 2024-04-25 11:29:50-04:00
published_time: 2024-04-24 16:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2024/04/24/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-and-national-security-advisor-jake-sullivan-15/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre and National Security\
  \ Advisor Jake\_Sullivan"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

2:47 P.M. EDT  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Hi, good afternoon, everyone. 

Q    Good afternoon.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I — I’m just going to be super, super quick.  I’m
going to turn things over to National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan,
who’s here to talk about the national security supplemental that the
President, as you all know, signed this morning and — and our support
for Ukraine — our continued support for Ukraine.

Jake. 

MR. SULLIVAN:  Well, thank you.  So, Karine was very short.  I’ll be a
little bit longer because I have a few things to lay out. 

But wanted to start by saying that I’m sorry that we’re late for the
podium today, but it’s — it’s for good reason, which is I’ve just come
from being with the President, where he got the chance to meet with
Abigail Edan, the four-year-old American who was held hostage by Hamas
in Gaza and was released last November as part of the first hostage deal
that the President was able to help broker and negotiate. 

But it was also a reminder, in getting to see her, that there are still
Americans and others being held hostage by Hamas.  And we’re working day
in, day out to ensure all of them also are able to get safely home to
their loved ones.

The main reason I come to the podium today, though, is to follow up on
the President’s remarks from earlier today and the very important,
consequential vote that was taken in the Senate last night and the bill
that was signed by the President this morning.

This morning, you heard President Biden speak about the critical
importance of the national security supplemental, which came to the
President’s desk, as we said it would, with overwhelming bipartisan
support from the U.S. Congress.  I’ve stood at this podium numerous
times and said, you know, the road may be full of twists and turns, I
can’t predict exactly when it will happen, but I always had confidence
it would happen.  

And that’s because of the deep reservoir of support there is for
Ukraine.  And that’s true of Democrats, it’s true of Republicans, it’s
true of independents.  And that’s what’s shown through in the votes,
both in the House and the 79-vote aye vote outcome we saw in the Senate
last night.

The passage of this bill sends a powerful message to the rest of the
world about the enduring strength of American leadership.  And believe
me, the world has been and continues to watch closely. 

As you all know, getting this legislation through Congress has been a
top priority for President Biden since he first submitted his
supplemental request more than six months ago.  And it gets to a core
tenet of his foreign policy philosophy: When our friends and allies are
stronger, we, the United States and the American people, are stronger.  
And when our friends are attacked or threatened, we, the United States,
stand up for them.  We do our part.  We keep our word.

And with that signature this morning, the President kept America’s word
that we would stand with Ukraine through thick and thin, and that’s
exactly what we will do.

When Russia began amassing troops on Ukraine’s borders, the President
rallied the world to respond to Russia’s aggression.  He built a broad
coalition that flowed critical aid to Ukraine as the Ukrainian people
defended themselves and then won the battle for Kyiv, the battle for
Kharkiv, the battle for Kherson, and regained half the territory that
Russia occupied since 2022.

And the bill the President signed today and the significant and
immediate military aid package he approved one minute later will send
Ukraine the supplies that it needs to make a significant different —
difference as they continue to fight for their sovereignty and
territorial integrity. 

The bill will also help replenish Israel’s air defenses, which is even
more important following Iran’s brazen and unprecedented attack 10 days
ago.  And it will help ensure that Israel has what it needs to defend
itself against the very real threats it faces from Iran as well as
Iran’s proxy groups.

The supplemental will substantially increase humanitarian aid for
Palestinian civilians in Gaza, who are suffering so grievously, as we
work to build on the progress of the past two weeks in terms of an
increase in the amount of lifesaving humanitarian assistance that has
been and must continue to flow into Gaza.  And the quantities and the
type of humanitarian assistance that we have seen increase over the last
two weeks, we need to see continued increases and sustained increases as
we go forward.

The bill will also enhance and expand humanitarian aid for those who
have been impacted by instability, by conflict, by disaster all over the
world, including in Haiti, in Sudan, and Somalia.

The bill makes important investments in our defense industrial base that
will strengthen our own military.  And, of course, it provides timely
support to our allies and partners in the Indo-Pacific as well.

Getting this bill passed entailed months of advocacy, hands-on work by
President Biden himself, by his White House team, by his national
security team, and countless briefings, meetings, hearings by
departments and agencies across our government for the Congress in both
the House and the Senate.

It was a long road to secure this funding.  And I have to say, standing
here today, it was too long.  And the consequences of the delay have
been felt in Ukraine.  Over the past six months, Ukraine has had to
ration ammunition, and that has resulted in the loss of some territory
in the east, including the city of Avdiivka.

And while today’s announcement is very good news for Ukraine, they are
still under severe pressure on the battlefield, and it is certainly
possible that Russia could make additional tactical gains in the coming
weeks. 

Russia has tried to grind out very slow, costly progress on multiple
fronts over the past few weeks.  They are threatening the town of Chasiv
Yar.  They are threatening settlements to the west of Avdiivka.   And,
of course, they’re raining hell down on Kharkiv and other cities across
Ukraine. 

The fact is that it’s going to take some time for us to dig out of the
hole that was created by six months of delay before Congress passed the
supplemental.  And that’s why the minute the President signed the
supplemental, he turned and signed a very substantial drawdown package
that includes urgently needed artillery and HIMARS ammunition, more
armored vehicles, Javelins, Stingers, and air defense interceptors,
among other things.  These capabilities are going to start moving
immediately to make up for lost time.

At this critical moment, this is a way to show in deed as well as in
word that the United States stands with Ukraine.

And despite the challenges that I’ve just described, I think it is very
important for us to underscore that as we look ahead to the rest of
2024, our view is that Ukraine retains key advantages in this fight. 
Uk- — Ukraine can and will prevail, and that will be thanks to the
bravery of its people but also the support of its friends.

First, the Ukrainian military remains a resilient, brave, and effective
fighting force.  And even as the Ukrainians waited for U.S. security
assistance, they were able to impose significant costs on Russia.  Since
the start of 2024, we estimate that Ukraine has destroyed more than 700
Russian armored vehicles and roughly 250 Russian tanks.

Russia, meanwhile, has had to continue to throw its soldiers into this
fight without proper training and equipment.

Second, our allies, as the President said this morning, have been
mobilizing in support of Ukraine alongside us.  Just yesterday, the UK
announced a significant new package of military aid for Ukraine,
alongside major investments that they are making in their defense
industrial base, putting their defense budget on a path to reach 2.5
percent of their GDP by the end of the decade.  And the United States
welcomes these moves from a stalwart ally.

Germany recently announced the donation of another Patriot system to
Ukraine. 

The Czech government, whose Prime Minister was just here recently, has
raised enough money to purchase half a million artillery shells for
Ukraine, with hundreds of thousands more beyond that to follow. 

And Estonia recently announced its own ambitious effort to secure even
more artillery and other forms of ammunition for Ukraine.

And then, third, the United States is building up our capacity to
support Ukraine.  For example, we’re investing in our own domestic
production of 155-millimeter artillery rounds.  Since the start of this
conflict, we’ve more than doubled our monthly production of 155.  By the
end of this year, we will have doubled it again.  And as a result, we’re
going to be able to provide, from our own production, steady and
significant supplies of artillery to Ukraine.

We are also providing Ukraine with new capabilities.  I’m able to
confirm, as you’ve heard from others, that in February the President
directed his team to provide Ukraine with a significant number of ATACMS
missiles for use inside Ukraine’s sovereign territory.  That shipment
started moving in March as part of the PDA that the President authorized
on March 12th, and those missiles have arrived in Ukraine. 

This followed Russia’s procurement and use of North Korea’s ballistic
missiles against Ukraine, as well as Russia’s renewed and escalating
attacks against civilian infrastructure in Ukraine. 

Until recently, as we’ve said on many occasions, we were unable to
provide these ATACMS because of readiness concerns.  But behind the
scenes, the administration across the board has worked relentlessly to
address those concerns.  We now have a significant number of ATACMS
coming off the production line and entering U.S. stocks.  And as a
result, we can move forward with providing ATACMS while also sustaining
the readiness of the U.S. armed forces.

The path ahead will not be easy.  Russia is going to continue to press
its attacks against Ukrainian defenses.  But for the reasons that I have
laid out, over time, we assess that Ukraine’s position in this conflict
will improve, and we believe that Ukraine can and will win.

As I have said from this podium before, no one — no one in this room and
no one anywhere else — should underestimate the Ukrainian people, and no
one should underestimate President Biden’s resolve and the American
people’s resolve and a bipartisan majority in — both in the House and
the Senate’s resolve to stand with Ukraine.

And with that, I’d be happy to take your questions.

Yeah.

Q    Thank you, Jake.  How big of an impact will these long-range ATACMS
have on the battlefields in Ukraine?  And will more long-range ATACMS be
sent to Ukraine as part of this $60 billion aid package?

MR. SULLIVAN:  So, we’ve — as I said in my opening comments, we’ve
already sent some.  We will send more now that we have additional both
authority and money.  I’m not going to get into specific numbers for
operational reasons.

I believe they will make a difference.  But as I’ve said before at this
podium — and as you’ve heard from Secretary Austin, the Chairman, and
other senior military officials — there is no silver bullet in this
conflict.  One capability is not going to be the ultimate solution.  It
is an amalgam of capabilities that come together and combine with the
bravery and skill of Ukraine’s fighters that’s going to make the
difference in this conflict.

So, we think it’s good that we’re able to provide them, but I don’t
expect to stand before you and say one capability has — has been the
silver bullet in this conflict.

Q    Are you worried that it could provoke Russia?  Because they had
said that sending these long-range missiles could be crossing the red
line.

MR. SULLIVAN:  What we have seen from the Russians is their willingness
to accept long-range missiles from other countries, specifically North
Korea.  They have used those in the battlefield.  They have used them to
attack Ukrainian civilians as well. 

So, from our perspective, now that we’ve resolved our readiness
concerns, being able to step up and provide our own capabilities to
Ukraine, as partners of ours have — the UK, the French, others — we
think it’s appropriate to do at this moment.  We think it is a good
capability in this phase of the conflict for Ukraine, and we will stand
behind that four-square.

Yeah.

Q    Jake, you know, on Israel.  They’ve made a number of commitments in
terms of what they need to do on the ground in order to receive the aid
that they’re getting from the United States.  With the reports that
we’ve seen of mass graves at two medical facilities in Gaza that they
destroyed, is it your current view that they are living up to those
commitments?

MR. SULLIVAN:  Well, those reports were deeply disturbing. We have been
in touch at multiple levels with the Israeli government.  We want
answers.  We want to understand exactly what happened.  You’ve seen some
public commentary from the IDF on that, but we want to know the
specifics of what the circumstances of this were.  And we want to see
this thoroughly and transparently investigated so that the whole world
can have a comprehensive answer and we, the United States, can as well.

I can’t speak beyond that because, of course, we’re in the early days of
fully understanding what happened. 

We also received a series of commitments from the Israeli government
with respect to the facilitation of humanitarian assistance. 

President — (a cellphone rings).

Q    That’s all for today, Jake.  Time’s up.

MR. SULLIVAN:  (Laughs.)  That’s what the — that’s “The Gong Show”? 
(Laughter.)

You know, President Biden spoke with Prime Minister Netanyahu a little
more than two weeks ago.  And in the time that has unfolded since his
conversation with Prime Minister Netanyahu, we have seen a marked
increase in the amount of humanitarian assistance that has gone into
Gaza and, importantly, a very significant increase in the amount of
assistance that has gone to Northern Gaza, where the U.N. and others had
told us the challenges of malnutrition and potential famine were most
acute.

So, we think we have made a significant set of steps forward on this,
but — and this is a very important “but” — it needs to be sustained and
it needs to be increased even further.

We’ve seen moves at Ashdod.  We’ve seen initial moves through crossings
in the north.  Again, those are good steps, but we need to see that
expanded, institutionalized, and ensure that, on a steady basis, the
level and intensity and scope of humanitarian assistance meets the
need.  And we’re going to stay focused until we ensure that that is the
case.   
  
Yeah.  
  
Q    Thanks, Jake.  What kind of mechanism does the U.S. have in place
to ensure that these long-range ATACMS will only be used within
Ukrainian territory and will not be fired into Russian territory?

  
MR. SULLIVAN:  Well, we now have an extended period of time where we
have tested these commitments from the Ukrainian government, which they
have made with respect to other systems as well, including HIMARS, where
they have said, “We will only use these on Ukrainian sovereign
territory.  We won’t use them beyond the borders of Ukraine.”   
  
They have followed through on that commitment time and time again with
respect to the systems that we have provided them, so we have confidence
they will follow through on this commitment as well.

  
Q    And then on this new —  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — hostage video that was just released by Hamas of Hersh
Goldberg-Polin.  What’s your understanding of why Hamas is re- —
releasing this video now?  Is it because the U.S. was insisting on some
proof of life?  Or is this a provocation of some sort?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  We have insisted on proof of life, we have insisted on
the release of all of these hostages from the beginning.  And so,
there’s been no change in our position with respect to proof of life. 
So, I can’t speak to what has caused them to choose to release the video
at this time.   
  
All I can say is this is a — an innocent young man being held hostage by
a terrorist organization, and he should be released immediately without
condition and without delay.   
  
I have not had the personal opportunity to speak with his parents since
this video was released.  I’m intending to do that. 

I don’t want to speak further on this, because of the sensitivity of the
issue, other than to say I was just sitting with the President of the
United States going through all of the Americans being held hostage and
what we can do about them, what their status is.  It’s something he is
personally very focused on, even as he celebrates Abigail’s release.   
  
So, this is something we will continue to make a paramount priority for
President Biden and for the United States.   
  
Yeah.  
  
Q    I know you don’t want to detail it much further.  But just for
clarity, can you assess — is there any assessment of how recent this
video was made, if this was made just days after?  He does have, sort
of, a date stamp in how long he says he’s been held.  What is the U.S.’s
understanding on that?  
  
And separately, can you pull back the curtain on the visit with Abigail
Edan and her family?  You were there.  How is she — her spirits, her
family?  What was the moment like?  What were the interactions like?  If
you could, invite us into that room.  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  The moment that we got the video that showed Hersh, we
gave it to the FBI Hostage Fusion Recovery Cell.  Those are the experts
who have the technical capacity to actually look at that video and
discern or at least assess with as much specificity as possible the
answers to your questions.  
  
They are in the process of doing that.  I’m not going to get ahead of
that assessment —

Q    Okay.

MR. SULLIVAN:  — to make any judgments about time, you know, recency, et
cetera.  I will let them make those judgments.  And then when we have
something we can share publicly, in light of all the sensitivities,
we’ll share it with you.   
  
You know, President Biden will speak to this himself because this was
his meeting, his opportunity to see Abigail, to see her family, to see
her siblings.  Abigail and her — her two siblings had their parents
killed on October 7th.  So, they’re still living with the tragedy and
the trauma of that.  Abigail, of course, is living with the trauma of
being held captive for — for many weeks.   
  
But this was a — a moment of joy as well because she was able to be
returned safely to her family.  And I think, for the President, the most
important thing was it was a reminder of the work still to do and how
important it is for him personally and for the government to do all that
we can to secure a ceasefire and hostage deal so that everybody can come
home.   
  
Yeah.

  
Q    Thanks, Jake.  This bill also authorized the President to seize
Russian-dollar assets.  Is that something he’s prepared to do
unilaterally?  Or will he have to consult with allies before making any
kind of decision?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  Well, the G7 has said collectively that Russia’s assets
are going to remain immobilized until they are put to use for recovery
in Ukraine.  The precise way in which that happens, the mechanism is
still being — is still a matter of consultation with our European
partners.   
  
Look, the ideal is that we all move together — that Europe and the
United States, especially since the bulk of the assets are held in
Europe, come up with a common way forward for how we ensure that these
sovereign assets actually go to work rebuilding and reconstructing
Ukraine.   
  
And I will not go further than that today because we are in the middle
of intense consultations with our European partners.   
  
I can tell you this is going to be an important subject of conversation
at the G7 summit in June.  But I will leave it at that for today.  
  
Q    Can you provide us with an update on the latest on the Rafah
invasion?  What’s the latest that the Israelis have told the
administration?  And on timing, do you expect them to hold off as these
talks continue?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  I will say that you hear a lot of different public
comments from different Israeli officials, different media reports —
some on the record, some off the record, some on background — circling
dates, stating what’s going to happen definitively, changing what’s
going to happen definitively, so I will be entirely out of the business
of commenting, predicting, or representing what exactly Israel will do
when it comes to Rafah.  
  
What I can tell you is the U.S. position has been clear on this.  I’ve
stated it from this podium.  The President has spoken to it.  And we’ve
had very detailed discussions with the Israelis as recently as last week
by secure video to talk through not just our concerns but our view that
there is a different way to go about dealing with the Hamas threat in
Rafah and succeeding in ensuring the long-term defense and security of
Israel.   
  
We are still in those conversations, and we will still continue to press
our perspective.  And I will leave it at that for today because that
conversation is midstream.  It has not been concluded.   
  
Yeah.  
  
Q    Thanks, Jake.  This bill gives ByteDance 270 days to sell TikTok
due to those national security concerns, which could lead to a national
ban.  In the meantime, is it safe for President Biden’s campaign and any
other political entity to be on TikTok?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  So, I’m going to let campaigns decide for themselves what
they’re going to do.   
  
The terms of the bill are straightforward.  TikTok continues to operate
as it is right now until such time as either there is divestment or the
time that you’ve referred to elapses.  And so, what we’re focused on
right now in implementing the bill is working through that divestment in
a way that is consistent with the intent of the law and consistent with
the national security concerns that brought the law into force in the
first place.   
  
Yeah.

  
Q    The war will stretch far beyond the $61 billion in aid.  So, can
the Ukrainians have any confidence that the fight over Congress — the
fight over money in Congress won’t repeat itself next year?  
  
And, you know, has Putin planned for these skirmishes in the U.S.
Congress as he continues the invasion in Ukraine?

  
MR. SULLIVAN:  Well, look, I’ve said this before — and maybe it’s even
an understatement to say it again — that democracy is messy.  There’s a
lot of to-ing and fro-ing, a lot of twists and turns. 

But I think really what this weekend showed is that, at the end of the
day, despite substantial effort by a lot of parties, including the
Russians, to figure out a way to not have this bill pass, it has
passed.  And I think the message that that sends is that, at the end of
the day, when push comes to shove, the United States is going to be
there with the resources necessary for Ukraine. 

I believe that today, I believed that one year ago, and I believe that
will be true one year from now. 

Yeah. 

Q    Yeah.  Thanks, Jake.  You referred to the hole that was dug because
of the six-month delay in Congress.  How deep is that hole?  How much
was — did l- — Ukraine lose on the battlefield as a result of inaction? 

And, secondly, how long does the U.S. expect this $61 billion to last
before it is completely withdrawn?

MR. SULLIVAN:  So, you can —

Q    (Inaudible.)

MR. SULLIVAN:  — you can measure the impact in different ways.  With
respect to actual territory, we’re talking about tactical losses in the
east, not some fundamental structural shift in the underlying dynamic of
the conflict. 

But you can also measure it just in terms of the — the wear and tear in
places on a frontline unit who has to ration ammunition because they’re
not getting the steady flows.  And that’s a bit more incalculable. 

And the President referred in his remarks earlier today to the reports
of Ukrainian troops literally cheering in the trenches, watching on
their phones, as the House passed the bill over the weekend.  That goes
to show you how closely they are following the — the U.S. Congress,
because it means the difference between having them — the tools they
need to put up that fight effectively and not having those tools. 

So, our view is that that has caused, obviously, some significant wear
and tear on the forces, as well as some tactical losses on the
battlefield, and has also created the existing pressure that we see even
today with Russian unit — units pushing forward in places they were not
previously pushing forward. 

But we also believe, as I laid out — maybe in too much detail for some
of you — that there are fundamental structural drivers that favor
Ukraine here.  And part of that is about what the U.S. industrial base
can produce.  Part of it is about what the Europeans have stepped up to
do in really significant ways over the course of the — the last six
months.  And we are urging them to keep that going, even as the U.S. has
delivered $60 billion.  Part of that is about the Ukrainian capacity
itself.  And then, of course, we are adding new capabilities like the
ATACMS. 

So, you put all that together and I think the calculus of the Russians
or the critics of Ukraine who say, “Time is on Russia’s side” — they’ve
got it wrong.  We believe that the structural dynamics of this conflict
favor the country defending its own territory.  We believe that
occupation and invasion saps the will and vitality of a nation over
time. 

And as long as Ukraine gets the tools that it needs to defend itself, it
can do so effectively and it can win.  And we have now taken a major
step forward in giving it the tools that it needs to defend itself, and
we insist that we will continue to do so. 

Q    And then a second question.  In terms of how long it’ll last, I
mean, how — until it’s completely drawn down.  Is there any — should it
last the rest of this year?  I mean, how — how long are we talking here?

MR. SULLIVAN:  I do anticipate that with the amount of resources we have
right now, we can continue to supply Ukraine with what it needs through
2024.

Q    Jake?

MR. SULLIVAN:  Yeah.

Q    Thanks, Jake.  There’s been some satellite imagery of tents popping
up near Khan Younis and — and Rafah as well.  Do you have an assessment
of what these were built for?  Is this related to Israel’s potential
invasion in Rafah imminently?

MR. SULLIVAN:  So, I have seen the reports.  I don’t know, actually,
exactly what they refer to.  It is certainly the case that U.N.
organizations, NGOs, other governments are working to actually build out
shelter, sanitation, distribution points for humanitarian assistance in
Khan Younis now that major military operations there have abated. 

So, sort of setting aside the question of Rafah for the moment, which is
a hard question to set aside, there’s going to be a significant amount
of humanitarian activity in Khan Younis regardless, as there can and
should be in Gaza City as well as we get more aid to the north. 

So, I can’t speak specifically to these reports, how they relate to
Israel’s future military operations, because I’ve only seen them kind of
written in the newspaper.  I haven’t yet seen what exactly they’re
referring to.

But we’ll stay in close touch not just with the Israelis, but with the
United Nations.  In fact, on a daily basis, at senior levels, we’re
talking to the U.N. as they try to coordinate the humanitarian element
of this. 

And, frankly, for those people — innocent civilians — who are not in
Rafah, they too need and deserve shelter, support, food, medicine, and
everything else.  And, you know, we are insisting that that happen, in
addition to ensuring the safety and protection of the people of Rafah.

Q    And then really quickly on the in-person talks that were scheduled
to happen.  I know you guys have been meeting virtually with Israeli
counterparts. 

MR. SULLIVAN:  Yeah. 

Q    Is there anything planned upcoming for an in-person conversation?

MR. SULLIVAN: So, we had an in-person one planned, and then, as you all
may have noticed, there was a series of events related to Israel over
the course of the past two weeks that made it difficult, frankly, for
anybody to leave their desks.  I couldn’t leave my desk.  My
counterparts in Israel couldn’t leave their desk because we were
hunkered down trying to put together the coalition that helped defend
Israel against that unprecedented Iranian attack and then deal with the
aftermath of it. 

I expect we will get together in person relatively soon, but we don’t
have a date circled on the calendar right now.

Q    Thanks.  Thanks so much, Jake.  Back to the structural dynamics in
Ukraine that you talked about earlier.  Ukraine is facing a very severe
troop shortage at the moment.  Is there anything in this package that
will address the fact that Ukraine needs more troops on the frontlines
and that they’ve struggling to — to get the numbers that they need over
the past several months?

MR. SULLIVAN:  It’s a very good question.  Obviously, this package does
not include troops.  It includes the capabilities that troops will need,
but Ukraine itself will have to supply the troops.

Now, as we were working day in, day out to get this bill passed,
President Biden was also working with President Zelenskyy to talk
through how President Zelenskyy was thinking about the issue of
mobilization and getting enough forces forward to the fight. 

And actually, as you know, just in the last couple of weeks, Ukraine has
passed a new mobilization law.  And, also, the new commander-in-chief,
General Syrskyi, has put in place — along with the Defense Minister,
Umerov — a series of protocols to increase the number of forces that are
being mobilized each month so that Ukraine has the manpower it needs to
go along with the capabilities it is now getting. 

And we will start to see the impact of that month by month as they
implement the new mobilization law and as they implement the new
directives from the Minister of Defense and the — the new commander of
the — of the Ukrainian Armed Forces.

Q    Jake.

MR. SULLIVAN:  Yeah.

Q    Jake, the North Korean envoy has recently se- — sent to Iran.  And
considering the fact that both ballistic missiles and the Shahed drones
have been sent to Ukraine to fight against the Ukrainian forces, can I
get your opinion on this?

MR. SULLIVAN:  Well, the President today made a comment that, you know,
I’ll just repeat, which is for the six months that we were not actually
passing the necessary resources for Ukraine, Putin was looking to his
friends.  And he was getting those drones from Iran, he was getting
those missiles from North Korea, and he was getting support for the
Russian defense industrial base from China. 

And that is not lost on us.  It’s something that we are dealing with on
all three fronts.  And we will continue to do that.  And you’ve heard
Secretary Blinken, obviously, who’s now in Beijing, speak to our
concerns with respect to the PRC and its support for Russia’s defense
industrial base.  And we have been vocal from this podium about both
North Korea and Iran, and we’ll continue to be. 

Yeah.

Q    Thank you, Jake.  Israeli government officials are saying that the
President has backed down on possibly sanctioning the IDF Netzah Yehuda
unit — battalion.  Is there any truth to that?  Is that still under
consideration?  And, if not, why not?

MR. SULLIVAN:  On this one, I’ve got to refer you to the State
Department, because they run a rigorous, detailed analysis of what’s
called the Leahy Law, which looks at gross violations of human rights by
particular units.  It has been taking a look at these questions for
multiple countries.  And I can’t — it wouldn’t be appropriate for me to
speak on their behalf.  So, the State Department will ultimately have to
speak to this.

Q    Okay.

MR. SULLIVAN:  I would only point out that the nomenclature of
“sanction” is not accurate.  What we are talking about here is, if the
Leahy Law is implemented, it has implications for how we deal with a
particular unit.  But it’s not, in the classic sense, a sanction.  It’s
something well known and applied in multiple jurisdictions around the
world. 

But this really is something that we take care to separate from
politics, to separate from, you know, decisions taken at the White
House.  It is a State Department analysis with a State Department
outcome.  And they can speak to what is going to happen at the time that
they’re ready to speak to it.

Q    Having — having said that, a number of State Department officials,
including some recently departed former officials, have told my
colleagues that their understanding of the situation is that the
President’s views on — on Israel have been a roadblock to applying the
Leahy Law as you have just described. 

Can you tell us, right here, whether the President would intervene in
that State Department process that you alluded to to prevent Leahy Law
restrictions being placed on Israel?

MR. SULLIVAN:  I — I think I did just tell you.  He will not.  The White
House will not intervene in that.  That is a process run out of the
State Department, and you should go there.  And my strong guess is that
the State Department officials you’re referring to have never sat in a
meeting with President Biden on Israel and are merely speculating based
on whatever their own perspective is. 

But I’ve said it to you, plain and simple: The State Department will
make these judgments.  They’ll make them according to the analysis and
the timeline they deem appropriate.  And — and the questions about how
that all plays out are best directed to their podium.

Q    Way in the back, Jake.

MR. SULLIVAN:  Yeah.

Q    Thank you.  Just on Ukraine.  Now that the United States is sending
long-range missile systems to Ukraine, do you expect that Germany would
follow?  Would you welcome such a step from them?

MR. SULLIVAN:  I would refer you to Berlin on that.

Yeah.

Q    Thank you.  You’ve been talking about a very detailed discussion
with the Israeli government about possible invasion in Rafah.  Does this
administration still consider Prime Minister Netanyahu as a valuable
partner?

MR. SULLIVAN:  As a what?

Q    Valuable partner.

MR. SULLIVAN:  I’m not sure I understand what you mean by that.

Q    As a partner that you can trust.

MR. SULLIVAN:  He’s the Prime Minister of Israel.  We deal with whoever
is sitting in the chair as the Prime Minister of Israel, because
ultimately the decisions that are taken are taken under his leadership
of his Cabinet. 

And so, we will continue in — to engage with the Prime Minister — the
President will.  We’ll continue to engage with his team in an effort for
them to fully understand our perspective and where we think the right
steps forward are and to listen to them as well.  And ultimately, the
President will make his own decisions about U.S. policy consistent with
U.S. interests and values.

Yeah.

Q    Thank you very much, Jake.  On Iran, North Korea, and Russia.  It
was reported that North Koreans’ economic delegations will be dispatched
to Iran to discuss nuclear missile cooperation with Iran.  As you know,
that — Iran used North Korea-made missiles in an airstrike against
Israel.  What impact do you predict that military cooperation between
Iran, North Korea, and Russia will have on the Middle East situation and
Korean Peninsula?

MR. SULLIVAN:  Well, episodically, over the course of many years and
many administrations, we’ve seen various linkages in — and defense
cooperation between North Korea and Iran.  That’s come and gone, ebbed
and flowed.

What is new, what is different over the course of the last two years has
really been the cooperation between Iran and Russia with this massive
provision of drones and North Korea and Russia with a massive provision
of many different capabilities, including artillery, but also including
ballistic missiles that go quite a long range, pack a punch, and are
being used to terrorize cities across Ukraine. 

And we believe that this is a matter of grave concern to the security of
Europe, way beyond the borders of Ukraine. 

And to your question, we’re also concerned about what may happen in the
other direction: What is Russia going to provide to North Korea or Iran
that will destabilize the Indo-Pacific or destabilize the Middle East? 
That’s something that we’re watching very closely.

Yeah.

Q    Thanks, Jake.  Tomorrow is the funeral service for the seven World
Central Kitchen aid workers who were killed.  Why is the President not
going?

MR. SULLIVAN:  Well, the President will have a letter from him read at
the service.  And you will see the Second Gentleman there.  The
President, of course, has had a longstanding plan to go up to Micron,
the facility up in Syracuse.  He will continue with that.  But he has
spoken directly with Chaef \[sic\] Jose Andre- — Chef Jose Andres about
this tragic event. 

And, of course, in the immediate aftermath of it, he picked up the phone
and called Bibi Netanyahu.  And what we have seen since then, as I was
speaking about before with respect to the provision and facilitation of
humanitarian assistance, has been a significant difference.  But the
administration will be well represented at that event.

Yeah.

Q    Thank you.  Two questions.  One on Iran.  Part of the deal that was
signed by the President today had a collection of sanctions on Iran, on
the Islamic Republic — namely, human rights, drones, their dealings with
China, the oil export.  What is the administration trying to achieve
with this set of sanctions that has not already achieved in the past
three years?

And my second question is about this National Security Memorandum 20,
which is an independent task which they called the suspen- — for the
suspension of the U.S. arms transfer to Israel because they are accusing
Israel Defense Forces of a “systematic pattern of war crime.”  What does
the administration say about this?

MR. SULLIVAN:  So, on National Security Memorandum 20, which the
President signed some weeks ago, we have a report that will be sent up
to the Congress in early May.  That report will analyze the elements of
National Security Memorandum 20.  And obviously, then, we will present
the findings of that to all of you as well.  And I’m not going to get
ahead of that report.  I think we should let them work through
rigorously the analysis, which will be done on an interagency basis by
the U.S. government.

And your first question was about Iran sanctions.  Look, I think the
moment we’re in right now that’s quite different from where we were just
a few weeks ago is you’ve actually had the G7 come out together and say
that we need to impose additional economic measures, additional
sanctions, additional pressure on Iran for this brazen and unprecedented
attack against Israel with more than 300 missiles and drones fired at
Israeli territory.   
  
The EU has moved, the UK has moved, the United States has moved, and we
will continue to move.  And extra authorities from Congress can help add
to the — the types of forms of pressure that we can place and the type
of isolation we can generate with respect to Iran, which is acting in
ways that are fundamentally irresponsible and destabilizing the peace
and stability in the Middle East.   
  
I’ll take one more question.  Yeah.

  
Q    I wanted to follow up on — I know you had to not go to Riyadh, to
Saudi Arabia.  I hope you’re feeling better, by the way.   
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  Thank you.   
  
Q    But has that been rescheduled, first? 

And secondly, can you give us an update on, sort of, what movement there
has been on these normalization talks between Saudi Arabia and Israel?  
  
MR. SULLIVAN:  I do expect to get to Saudi Arabia in the next few
weeks.  We haven’t literally scheduled it because things have been a bit
in flux.  But we will get it back on the calendar in the near term. 
I’ll let you know when I plan to get out there.  
  
Thank you for your concern.  I do feel quite a bit better.  (Laughter.) 
But as any of you who’ve cracked a rib know, it — it takes a long time. 
So, call me at 80 percent right now.  Meanwhile, I’m physically
deteriorating in all other ways, but — (laughter) — that’s a matter for
another time.   
  
And then, in terms of where we are on normalization talks, I really want
to have the opportunity to sit with the senior Saudi leadership, get
their perspective in person.  I’d be happy to report back to you after
that.  It’s something that we want to continue to work on.    
  
Although every week or so, I read a new story about how there’s a
renewed initiative, a different initiative, a new — you know, this is
steady, consistent diplomacy aiming at an endpoint that we’ve been quite
clear about.  But there haven’t been any kind of dramatic developments
over the course of the past few weeks.  It’s something we continue to
work at.  We’ll talk with the Saudis.  We’ll see where we are.  And
obviously, we have to talk with the Israelis as well, because they would
be a part of the larger outcome here if we could generate it.   
  
And with that, I’ll turn it over to Karine.  Thanks, everyone.  
  
Q    Thanks, Jake.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Thank you.  
  
All right.  Thanks, everybody.  Thanks, Jake.   
  
I do have a — something at the top for all of you, and then we can get
into Q&A.   
  
Over the last — the lo- — the last two days, our administration took
several new steps to protect workers and consumers.

The FTC banned non-compete agreements, which currently keep 30 million
workers, nearly one in five, from changing jobs.  This rule will
increase wages by at least $400 billion over the next 10 years.

The Labor Department raised the salary threshold for overtime, extending
overtime protections to millions of workers.  As the President put it:
If you work extra hours, you deserve extra pay.

The Lad- — Labor Department is also protecting retirement security by
requiring financial advisors to act in the saver’s best interest, not
their own.  This will save millions of Americans thousands of dollars
for their retirement accounts.

The Transportation Department is helping consumers get what they are
owed by requiring airlines to provide passengers with cash refunds when
flights are canceled or significantly changed, checked bags are
significantly delayed, or services like Wi-Fi are not provided.

The Transportation Department is — is also cracking down on surprise
junk fees by requiring airlines to tell consumers upfront what they are
being charged for checked bags, carrying on bags, and changing or
canceling a reservation.

These are just the latest parts of — parts of President Biden’s agenda
to protect workers and lower costs.  The President is building an
economy that lifts up working Americans and middle-class families.  
  
With that, Colleen.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    So, the backlash is growing at Morehouse College over the
President’s upcoming address, and it sort of mirrors all these other
college protests over Gaza.  I’m wondering how the President is going to
manage increasing student concerns as the violence wears on.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, we know it’s a incredibly painful time for
many communities.  You hear us say that often.  You have heard us
mention the President meeting with different community — community
leaders and community members, obviously, from the — for — from the
different — the different communities, obviously, the different groups,
to be more s<s>pecise</s> \[precise\], whether it’s Arab Americans,
Muslim Americans, Palestinian Americans, to have those difficult
conversation, to have those honest conversations.   
  
And you’ve heard the White House — you’ve heard us talk about the White
House staff, officials having regular, ongoing meetings with these
different groups.  
  
Look, as it relates to commencements, they’re about the graduates,
right?  They’re about their families.  They’re about their loved ones. 
It’s about celebrating accomplishments.  And the President is certainly
looking forward to doing that.  He’s going to do that at Morehouse. 
He’s going to do that at West Point — West Point, where those are
graduates where he’s going to be thanking them for their service and
defending — obviously, for defending our — our nation.   
  
So, the President is going to look — is looking forward to being part of
that.  He has always — it’s not the first time, obviously, that he’s
given commencement speeches.  
  
I understand this is a different moment in time that we’re in.  But he
always takes this moment as a special time to deliver a message — an
encouraging message, a message that’s hopefully uplifting to the
graduates and their families.  And we’re going to continue to have these
conversations that I’ve been — that I’ve just mentioned with the
different communities about what’s happening right now.   
  
We get it.  It’s painful.  We get that.  We understand that.

  
Q    Is there a concern that he would be, I don’t know, disinvited from
Morehouse or anything?  Is he planning to go?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, I’m certainly goi- — not going to speculate
or go into hypotheticals.  The President is certainly looking forward to
these commencements — these two upcoming commencements — Morehouse and
the United States Military Academy next month.  And he is — he has done
these many times before, understanding the important, critical — not
critical but important moment and how special that moment is for the
graduates and their families.  And he is going to do his best to meet
that moment as it relates to what’s going on, the pain that communities
are feeling.   
  
We’re going to continue to have those conversations and be sensitive to
that, understanding what people are going through.  
  
Q    On the Supreme Court.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    It — the Court appears pretty skeptical that federal law trumps
state law in Idaho over the abortion ban there.  I just wondered, you
know, that — EMTALA was a — a major —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — part of the administration’s efforts to sort of protect women or
give additional healthcare to women.  So, if that is on the chopping
block, what else can the administration do?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I’m going to be careful, because it’s ongoing.  So
— parts of this, especially because it’s an ongoing litigation —  
  
Q    Yeah.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — have to refer you to the Department of Justice.  
  
More broadly, the administration is going to continue, certainly, to
defend women’s ability to ac- — to access emergency care that they need,
they should — they should have under federal law.  And so, that is a
commitment that this administration is going to continue to ensure.  
  
And — and, so — look, we’re — we’re going to stay focused on that. 
We’re going to let the — the litigation process continue.  So, just not
going to get beyond that.   
  
But, more broadly, we believe that women should not be denied the ne- —
the access of healthcare that they need.   
  
We’ve been very clear in the Biden-Harris administration about how
important it is that women get that emergency care.  We’re talking about
lives.  We’re talking about women’s lives here and being able to make
those all-important decisions on their healthcare.   
  
We’ve been consistent about that.  We’re going to continue that fight. 
And so, we remain focused on ensuring that we prevail in the courts, and
that’s our commitment to women.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    The House Speaker is heading to Columbia today.  He’s calling on
the president of Columbia to resign.  Does the President share that
view?  And what does he think of the way that the administration at
Columbia has been handling this?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, going to be really mindful.  Columbia is a private
institution.  We’re not — we — I mean, we’ve been very consistent here
about not commenting on personnel matters.  That’s something for
Columbia University — obviously, the board to speak to and the president
— right? — to make that decision.  So, I’m not going to comment on
that.  That is obviously the Speaker’s privilege to — to speak for
himself and what he sees.

So, look, I would say, more broadly — and I said this moments ago — this
is a deeply painful, painful moment for many communities, and we
understand that.  But the President believes that free speech, debate,
and nondiscrimination on college campuses are important.  They’re
important American values.  And that — and so, he’ll always be very
clear — we will always be very clear about here — about that here. 

But, you know, protests must be peaceful.  You know, students must be
safe.  When we see violent rhetoric, we have to call that out.  When we
see physical intimidation or grotesque antisemitic remarks, we have to
speak that out.  And you saw that from the President’s statement when he
— this President’s statement on Passover.  He talked about that.  He
talked about action — taking action and making sure that we’re calling
that out. 

So, we’re going to continue to do that forcefully, condemn antisemitism
from this administration.  We’re going to contem- — continue to do
that.  We’re implementing, as you know, the — the first-ever National
Strategic Effort to Counter Antisemitism because there should be no
place in this country in — when it relates to that type of hate. 

We saw what happened in 2017, Charlottesville.  That was one of the
reasons that this President decided to run in 2020.  He ran in 2020
because of what he saw in Charlottesville and what was happening in the
streets of Charlottesville — -ville, the vile, just hateful rhetoric
that we’re seeing there. 

So, I think Columbia is going to have to speak to their personnel
issues.  And what we will speak to is, more broadly, what we expect and
what we want to see and how painful it is for many communities here. 

Q    And then on TikTok.  Now that the President has signed the bill,
does the White House have a preference as to whether TikTok gets sold
and remains operational in the U.S.?  Or are you indifferent about
whether it gets banned or sold?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, first of all, we’ve been very clear, members of
Congress have been very clear, we do not want to see a ban.  This is not
about a ban.  This is about divestment, selling — right? — being sold. 
This is about our national con- — security.  This is not concerns about
Americans using TikTok.  This is about PRC ownership, right?  This is
about the control of TikTok. 

And so, want to be super, super clear.  And so, that’s what members of
Congress moved forward with.  That’s what we supported.  So, we wanted
to see a divestment.  We want it to be — to see it being sold.  And we
do not — we do not seek a ban.  That is not what this bill is about — or
this now law is about, canceling it.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  You say it’s not about a ban.  But the reality is
— is that finding a buyer for TikTok will be incredibly difficult, and
the Chinese government also could intervene and block a sale.  So, if it
came to it, would the administration, then, support a ban, as the
legislation is written?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, here’s — here’s — I think I want to be — as it
relates to China, they should allow it.  Right?  They should allow it to
be sold.  That’s what I’ll say there. 

As it relates to the bill — the law now — there’s time.  We got to see
how this plays out.  We believe that it is possible.  There are already
American investors who are — who are willing and are interested in
buying TikTok.  So, the interest is there.  It’s not like there isn’t
any. 

And so, we’re going to see.  There’s time — there’s time — there’s
certainly time on the books to see how this plays out.  We do not — this
— this is not a ban.  Again, this is about divestment.  And that’s what
we want to see.

Q    Which American investors are interested?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, you all have reported on it.  There’s reports
out — out there that there’s a number of interested buyers — a number of
them.  You guys have reported on that.  I don’t have a list to share. 

So, we’re going to let that process play out.  But it’s been reported by
all of you. 

Q    And just what’s the President’s personal reaction to what he’s
seeing playing out on these college campuses?  What would he — be his
message to those who are peacefully — peacefully protesting, you know,
those who feel targeted on —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, I —

Q    — you know, all sides of the community?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, I hear your question.  I think the President has
been very clear.  He’s put out — he put out a statement.  In his
Passover statement, he talked about the — it is — we can’t be silent
here.  Silent is complicit.  And we can’t allow that. 

We sh- — we believe in First Amendment rights, right?  We believe in
people being able to express themselves in a peaceful manner.  But when
we’re talking about hateful rhetoric, when we’re talking about violence,
we have to call that out.  We have to call that. 

And we’ve been consistent here throughout this administration.  The
President has been consistent about it, obviously, since 2017, but even
before that, when he saw what happened in Charlottesville.  We have to
call out hateful, violent rhetoric. 

But, you know, we want to make sure that people have the opportunity to
peacefully protest — peacefully protest. 

Go ahead.

Q    Karine, on that subject, President Biden once talked about the
Vietnam War protests of his youth.  And he said the reason why he didn’t
participate was because, quote, “I wore sport coats…  I am who I am. 
I’m not big on flak jackets and tie-dye shirts.  And, you know, that’s
not me.” 

Is that still his view about the protest movements?  Or does he see them
as — as useful in shaping policy or shaping a discourse?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, obviously, the President, when he was talking
about that, he was talking about the Vietnam War.  That was a moment in
time — a specific — you know, when he was younger and how he felt about
that situation. 

And as President, you know, as Commander-in-Chief, where he sits right
now, behind that Resolute Desk, and what he understands, it’s important
to speak out.  And he understands that, as a leader in this country,
that when we see this type of antisemitic hate, this type of antisemitic
vile — vile, we have to be very clear.  We have to show moral clarity. 
We have to call that out. 

And I said this at the beginning: Students should feel safe, communities
should feel safe, and we — you know, we can’t — we can’t stay silent. 
Obviously, it is a deeply painful moment.  He sees that.  He understands
that.  And he will always support and believes in free speech and debate
and nondiscrimination on college campuses, as I said moments ago. 

And so — but we have to be able to do this and protest in a peaceful
way.  I don’t think that takes away from the comments that you just
made, that — that you just gave back to me that the Pros- — President
made.  I don’t think that — that that’s any different — right? — than
what the President is saying right now.  Right?

You have to be able to — be able to peacefully protest, but you got to
call out hate.  You got to call out hate. 

Q    And then on TikTok.  Is there any expectation that China could
retaliate against U.S. techni- — tech companies that are operating
there?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, look, I can’t speak for — for the Chi- — the
Chinese government.  I can’t.  I mean, that’s a hypothetical.  I can’t
speak to that.

I can only speak to the importance of this — this law moving forward —
this bill moving forward — obviously, the President signed it to- —
signed today, so it’s now law — and the importance of making sure that
we move forward with that divestment of TikTok.

We’re talking about national security.  We’re talking about making sure
we’re protecting Americans’ privacy, and that’s what this is about.  And
we are not talking about Americans using TikTok.  That’s not what we’re
— we’re looking at here. 

We want to make sure that there’s a divestment, that, you know, TikTok
should not be owned — or Americans should not be — should not be having
to worry about using a platform that is owned by — you know, by a
country that’s trying to harm us.  That’s the national security concern
here.

Q    And will this law survive a constitutional challenge?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, I’m not going to speak to that.  I mean, I think
that’s something that, obviously, DOJ will — will deal with.  I can’t
speak to — to challenges.  But obviously, it’s — it’s law now.  So,
we’re going to move forward with it.

Go ahead.

Q    Thank you.  We are seeing some of these on-campus protests really
heighten tensions and escalation across the country, not just at
Columbia but public universities — UT Austin, USC in California.  Is
there any concern about how law enforcement is handling these
protesters?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, look, I can’t speak to what’s going on on the
ground.  I know what UT — what happened is just happening now, happening
today.  So, I have no idea on how — how that’s being — how that’s being
dealt on the ground. 

But, look, we’ve been very clear.  We want to see this be peaceful.  We
understand it’s deeply concerning.  It is important that — that
communities feel safe and important that students feel safe.  That’s
what we want to see.  It should not be violent.  It should not be
hateful rhetoric here. 

And so, that’s what we’re going to keep saying, keep calling on.  And —
and we’ll let the universities handle that process on how they’re — how
they’re dealing on the ground.

Q    Thank you.  And if I may shift back to Ukraine for just a moment.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    President Zelenskyy said he and President Biden discussed this
Global Peace Summit coming up this June in Switzerland on their call
this week.  What is the White House view at this point on what that
summit could achieve?  And would the President consider attending?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, nothing to share with you on the President’s
schedule.  Obviously, it’s an important conversation that Ukraine should
be part of.  We have always been very clear about that.  I don’t have
anything to share beyond — beyond that.  I think, you know, this is
something that Pres- — the President of — the President of Ukraine —
obviously, President Zelenskyy needs to lead on and — and speak to.  I
just don’t have anything else to share. 

Obviously, we have shown our commitment to the great people of Ukraine
as it relates to defending themselves against Russia’s aggression. 
We’ve been pretty consistent about that.  And we believe that we need to
do everything that we can to make sure that they have what they need to
fight for their democracy, to fight for their freedom.  And we believe
that they will prevail. 

I’m just not going to get ahead of — of a potential summit and what that
might look like.

Go ahead, Tolu.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  Two questions.  First, the President expressed
some regret about the border security bill not being a part of the
supplemental.  But he also said that he will address that another time,
another place.  Do you have any update on whether the President is —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  And I also think, like, Mitch McConnell made a
statement about it as well.  So, I would certainly point you to what he
said about the border security bill.  And I think that’s important —
right? — because we need — this is a bipartisan effort, and we need both
sides. 

Look, the President has been very clear.  We need that bipartisan border
security n- — bill — or the negotiation that came together on that, and
we have to move forward with it.  It came out of the Senate.  It w- — it
got bipartisan support.

We heard from the former President, who said, “Don’t move forward.”  He
told Republicans to reject it.  They did.  And that’s unfortunate. 
That’s unfortunate.

Because it would have been the toughest, it would have been the fairest
if it was — if the President had an opportunity to sign that into law —
you know, law that we had seen in some time.  And it would have
addressed a lot of the concerns that Republicans have that we’re seeing
— the challenges that we’re seeing at the border. 

So, I mean, he had an opportunity.  You all — you all listened to the
President, right?  So, he had an opportunity this morning, so he was
going to take that opportunity to say how we need to continue to move
forward with the border — border — border security negotiation — or the
plan that came out of the negotiation.  So, he wants to see that.

It’s — it’s a concern that majority of Americans have.  And so, we want
to see that move forward.  And I think Mitch McConnell spoke for himself
on that.

  
MR. MICHEL:  Karine —  
  
Q    Should we —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I know.  
  
Q    — interpret him saying he’s going to come back to it as a sign that
he’s going to do some executive action in the coming weeks?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, well, look, we’ve always been very clear.  No
executive action is actually going to do what that border — border
security plan would have done.  Right?  We believe that was a — in order
to move forward to deal with the challenges at the border, in order to
actually deal with what we’ve been seeing with immigration — a broken
immigration system that has been — that we’ve seen for decades — that’s
the way to move forward.

Obviously, we’re always going to look at our options.  But we believe
there’s still an opportunity here.  There’s still an opportunity here. 
And I think — I think Leader McConnell was — was pretty clear about
that, too, today.  And —

Q    Then —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, go ahead.  I have to —

Q    A really quick one on — on taxes.  The President earlier today said
the 2017 tax bill that was passed under President Trump — if he is
reelected — if President Biden is reelected, it would be dead and gone
forever.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    That bill obviously included tax cuts for the wealthy, but it also
included tax cuts across the board to the tax rates at various levels of
income.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    Is the President saying that he would get rid of the entire tax
bill and not allow those tax cuts to continue?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I think — I think what the President was trying to say
— he was trying to make very clear that that was — the 2017 tax bill was
something that was for, you know, billionaires and corporations.  And
that’s not what he’s for.  Right?  He wants to — he wants to make sure
that the working class gets their fair share.  He wants to make sure
that the billionaires and corporations pay — right? — what they — what
they owe. 

And so, he’s talking about an economy — what type of economy that he
wants to build.  You hear us say it all the time.  He says it all the
time: an economy from that — that’s built from the bottom up, middle
out, that doesn’t leave out working people, that doesn’t leave out the
middle class, that builds into the middle class.  And I think that’s
what he was trying to speak to more broadly and how billionaires and
corporations have to pay their fair share.  He’s always been very clear
about that. 

And 2017 tax bill does not do that.  It does the opposite of that.  And
that’s what we’ve seen from Republicans continuing — like, when they put
out their budget recently, that’s what they’re doing.  They want to give
them a break. 

And what the President wants to do is give the middle class a break.  He
wants to give working people a break.  And you — you’ve seen that from
his legis- — from legislation that’s been passed and trying to — and
trying to make sure that we do not leave communities behind, communities
have been behind — left behind for decades now.

Go ahead, Peter.  I have to go into the Oval Office.

Q    Understood.  I’ll a- — I’ll ask two quick ones, one that developed
in —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    — the last hour, which is: On the third attempt in the last three
weeks, Arizona state House lawmakers just passed a bill that would
repeal the near-total ban on abortion in Arizona.  The White House’s
view on that?  It now, of course, moves to the state senate.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  So, look, we’ve — you’ve heard us talk about
the 1864 law and how it just sets us back — 1864.  We’re in 2024.  And
there’s a law that — that they wanted to move forward with that
obviously would hurt women, would hurt — hurt our reproductive rights
and hurt — hurt our — obviously, women to make a decision about their
healthcare.

And so, if this is — I have not seen that report.  But if this is the
case —

Q    It is the case.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: — that it has been repealed in one of the chambers,
that’s a good thing.  Right?  We’re moving forward in the right
direction.  We’re moving forward to where we are today in 2024, where we
should be protecting our freedom, protecting a woman’s right to make a
very personal decision about her body.

Q    And then, last one, quickly.  I know you’ve got to go.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.

Q    But the President didn’t mention the words TikTok — or maybe that’s
one word, TikTok, with no space between the two — in his comments
earlier today.  (Laughter.)  So, if you had an elevator —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  (Laughs.)  That’s so precise.

Q    If you had an elevator pitch, there was 170 million Americans who
use TikTok right now, what is the simple statement to those Americans
right now who are saying, “The President of the United States just
proposed — or signed legislation that could ban a platform that I rely
on, in some cases, for my livelihood”?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I think I would just say what I’ve been repeating here
from this podium for the past few minutes here, which is: This is not a
ban.  This is about divestment.  This is about our national security. 
We are not saying that Americans — we do not want Americans to use
TikTok.  That is not what we’re saying.  We want to make sure that
Americans are protected — are protected.  And that is what this is
about. 

And so, we believe this law will get us there.  We believe that we will
be able to divest — that TikTok will be able to divest.  We believe that
there is interest in — in folks who want to buy TikTok, and we want to
get there.  We want to get there.

This is — the President wants to protect Americans.  He w- — he wants to
protect Americans’ privacy.  He wants to protect Americans from coun- —
a country, in this — in this instance, that wants to potentially do us
harm.  And that’s what he believes is important. 

We’re not saying we do not want TikTok to exist.  We’re not saying that
we do not want Americans to use TikTok.  We want to make sure that it’s
done in a way that we protect our national security and that we protect
Americans.

Q    Thank you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  All right, everybody.

Q    Thanks, Karine.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’ve got to go to the Oval.

Thanks, everybody.  Have a good — have a good week.  I guess I’ll see
you in New York.

Q    Karine, if there are any pictures of the President with Edan, if
you would share those before the newscast —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’ll — I’ll check.  
  
Q    — tonight, we’d be grateful.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’ll check in.

Q    Thank you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’ll check in.  Thanks.  Thank you.

   3:49 P.M. EDT
