---
date: '2023-09-29'
published_time: 2023-09-29 13:46:30-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/blog/2023/09/29/why-we-must-invest-in-aanapisis/
tags: blog
title: "Why We Must Invest in\_AANAPISIs"
---
 
*A little-known federal program has helped to empower generations of
underserved Asian American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander
students. This week, the Biden-Harris Administration is taking new steps
to strengthen it.*

**By Erika L. Moritsugu, Krystal Ka‘ai, and Philip Kim**

Last Friday, President Joe Biden issued the [first-ever White House
proclamation](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/09/22/a-proclamation-on-asian-american-and-native-american-pacific-islander-serving-institutions-week-2023/)
celebrating the impact of the Asian American and Native American Pacific
Islander-Serving Institutions (AANAPISI) program and formally proclaimed
September 25 through October 1, 2023, as National AANAPISI Week. The
move is not only historic – it is the latest in a series of
unprecedented steps taken by the Biden-Harris Administration to uplift
the vital role of Minority-Serving Institutions (MSIs), providing a
critical pathway to higher education for millions of Americans and to
secure safety and stability in the middle class.

Ever since Congress first established the AANAPISI program in 2007,
these campuses have empowered generations of Asian American, Native
Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander (AA and NHPI) students. Both federal data
and independent research show the influence of the AANAPISI program in
broadening opportunity and putting higher education within reach for
underserved AA and NHPI communities, many of whom are low income and the
first in their families to attend college. 

The facts are clear. Though AANAPISIs make up a small percentage of U.S.
colleges and universities, they enroll nearly half of the nation’s AA
and NHPI undergraduate students. AANAPISIs also confer almost 50 percent
of the associate degrees and nearly 30 percent of the baccalaureate
degrees attained by all AA and NHPIs in the United States. Their efforts
have also yielded progress in other ways – including improved retention
and degree attainment rates for underserved communities. 

In addition, AANAPISIs employ and cultivate many of America’s top AA and
NHPI leaders in higher education, including college and university
presidents, administrators, and faculty. And as efforts to promote the
teaching of AA and NHPI history continues to grow, these institutions
have been at the forefront of groundbreaking scholarship and research,
developing tools and sustaining initiatives to better tell our
communities’ stories.

Despite these benefits, the AANAPISI designation is little known in
comparison to other MSIs like Historically Black Colleges and
Universities (HBCUs) and Hispanic-Serving Institutions (HSIs), and
numerous institutions of higher education are unaware of their
eligibility. 281 colleges and universities qualified as AANAPISIs in
2022, but only a fraction have sought and received funding through the
program. 

The gap in awareness can be partially explained by the “model minority”
myth, a harmful stereotype [coined in the
1960s](https://www.eeoc.gov/federal-sector/reports/asian-american-and-pacific-islander-work-group-report-chair-equal-employment)
that ubiquitously casts our diverse AA and NHPI communities as affluent,
high-achieving, and immune from the socioeconomic challenges faced by
other communities of color. In practice, the myth has fueled monolithic
characterizations of AA and NHPIs in post-secondary education that mask
major [disparities in student outcomes and
experiences,](https://eric.ed.gov/?id=ED397156) a feat in inaccuracy
when you realize AA and NHPI communities encompass more than 50 distinct
ethnicities that speak over 100 different dialects and languages.

Yet the model minority myth is not the sole reason of concern. Experts
point to limited program funding, the lack of disaggregated data on AA
and NHPI students, and other barriers such as hate, discrimination, and
sometimes violence – and say the federal government has a larger
responsibility to uplift AANAPISIs.

We agree. During National AANAPISI Week, we have the chance to elevate
the work of these critical institutions and recommit ourselves to
strengthening their capacity – so that more Americans can reach their
full potential.

Each AANAPISI plays a role in how the next generation of AA and NHPI
students excel. They create culturally responsive environments in places
of higher learning and offer invaluable support through mental health,
language access, and career development services. During the COVID-19
pandemic, AANAPISIs helped to foster environments of inclusion and
belonging to combat increased xenophobia and hatred directed toward the
Asian American community. They created meaningful spaces to prepare AA
and NHPI college students to be civically engaged leaders and
changemakers.

That is why the Biden-Harris Administration is actively investing in
Minority-Serving Institutions, including AANAPISIs, and will continue
its efforts to support all students through graduation and beyond.
President Biden’s American Rescue Plan [delivered $5 billion in
funding](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/05/31/fact-sheet-the-biden-harris-administration-advances-equity-and-opportunity-for-asian-american-native-hawaiian-and-pacific-islander-communities-across-the-country/#:~:text=The%20Biden%2DHarris%20Administration%20delivered,Islander%20Serving%20Institutions%20(AANAPISIs).)
to AANAPISIs, and the U.S. Department of Education provided them with
millions of dollars [to expand research
infrastructure](https://www.ed.gov/news/press-releases/biden-harris-administration-opens-nearly-100m-grant-opportunities-hbcus-tccus-and-msis-and-underserved-students).
Across the federal government, agencies including the Departments of
Education, Defense, and Energy, [are working to improve the capacity and
infrastructure of
AANAPISIs](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/01/17/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-continues-to-uplift-asian-american-native-hawaiian-and-pacific-islander-communities/)
through grants, cooperative agreements, and direct financial relief to
students. And as President Biden announced at his meeting with Pacific
Islands Forum leaders at the White House on Monday, the United States
will double the number of academic exchanges of Pacific Islander
students beginning this year.

Furthermore, the Biden-Harris Administration has repeatedly sought
substantial funding increases from Congress for MSIs. Along with
securing the largest increase for Pell Grants in over a decade for
low-income families and bold actions to provide relief to student
borrowers, President Biden is fighting to ensure that places of higher
learning have the federal support they need to thrive. 

Finally, the White House Initiative on Asian Americans, Native
Hawaiians, and Pacific Islanders (WHIAANHPI) is committed to tackling
barriers to educational attainment in all forms. With the release of the
Administration’s first-ever [national strategy to advance equity,
justice, and opportunity for AA and NHPI
communities](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/01/AA-and-NHPI-Strategy-2023.pdf),
we are working to create a higher education system that is more
inclusive, equitable, and affordable. And we are urging the expansion of
data disaggregation practices that help policymakers, administrators,
and faculty gain deeper insight into the unique and varied educational
needs of our diverse AA and NHPI communities.

Imagine the possibilities that we could unlock by investing in our
educators and students. And with the AA and NHPI population [rapidly
increasing](https://www.census.gov/newsroom/press-releases/2023/2020-census-detailed-dhc-file-a.html?utm_campaign=20230921msdecs1ccdtars&utm_medium=email&utm_source=govdelivery),
the urgency to strengthen and support AANAPSIs will only grow in the
years to come.

Our nation is stronger when we tap into the full range of talent of our
students, who have demonstrated remarkable resilience and determination
in the face of historic challenges. While AANAPISI Week is a time to
celebrate and reflect upon the tremendous impact of this critical
program, we recognize that more needs to be done to support our children
and the schools that foster environments where students can lead and
learn.

As President Biden wrote, “may we recommit to supporting these
institutions as they raise the next generation of AA and NHPI dreamers
and doers.”

–

*Erika L. Moritsugu is Deputy Assistant to the President and Asian
American, Native Hawaiian, and Pacific Islander Senior Liaison at the
White House.*

*Krystal Ka‘ai is Executive Director of the White House Initiative and
President’s Advisory Commission on Asian Americans, Native Hawaiians,
and Pacific Islanders.*

*Philip Kim is a Senior Advisor at the White House Office of Public
Engagement.*
