---
date: '2023-09-29'
modified_time: 2023-09-29 10:04:21-04:00
published_time: 2023-09-29 10:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/blog/2023/09/29/good-jobs-and-unions-will-help-build-our-workforce/
tags: blog
title: "Good Jobs and Unions Will Help Build Our\_Workforce"
---
 
*Heather Boushey, Chief Economist, Investing in America Cabinet and*

*Harin Contractor, Director for Labor Policy, National Economic Council*

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Today, the Biden-Harris Administration released a
[playbook](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/09/playbook_workforce_investments.pdf)
on evidence-based workforce development strategies that state and local
governments can use to support workers, families, and communities. After
decades of jobs shipped overseas, communities hollowed out, and supply
chains broken, President Biden’s economic vision—Bidenomics— goes back
to what built the American middle class by growing the economy from the
middle out and the bottom up.

The President is growing the economy from the middle out and bottom up
by investing in America, supporting 21<sup>st</sup> century industries
like semiconductors and clean energy; empowering and educating workers;
and fostering fair and competitive markets. This agenda is a [growth
agenda](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/07/14/the-economics-of-investing-in-america/),
designed to deliver strong, stable, sustainable, and *shared* economic
growth. And it’s designed to [create
jobs](https://www.whitehouse.gov/cea/written-materials/2022/08/09/the-economics-behind-the-presidents-economic-agenda/)
across the country, including in communities that have been too often
left behind.
[External](https://energyfuturesinitiative.org/wp-content/uploads/sites/2/2023/01/NDC-Report-January-17-1.pdf)
[estimates](https://energyinnovation.org/wp-content/uploads/2022/08/Updated-Inflation-Reduction-Act-Modeling-Using-the-Energy-Policy-Simulator.pdf)
predict that over the next decade, the Administration’s Investing in
America agenda will create more than a million jobs in industries like
manufacturing and construction. Already, investment in constructing new
manufacturing facilities has
[skyrocketed](https://home.treasury.gov/news/featured-stories/unpacking-the-boom-in-us-construction-of-manufacturing-facilities).

With the President’s investments helping to build entire new industries
in the United States, it’s to be expected that the entire workforce
needed to fill those jobs isn’t already standing at the ready. That’s
why the Administration is investing and scaling quality training efforts
like Registered Apprenticeships—but training alone will not ensure a
stable supply of skilled workers. The President believes that employers
should prioritize ensuring that jobs are high-quality—including offering
fair pay and benefits and quality working conditions—in order to attract
and retain workers.

The challenge is that decades of
[offshoring](https://www.aeaweb.org/articles?id=10.1257/aer.103.6.2121),
[wage
stagnation](https://files.epi.org/2013/causes_of_wage_stagnation.pdf),
lack of
[benefits](https://www.bls.gov/ebs/publications/september-2022-landing-page-employee-benefits-in-the-united-states-march-2022.htm#Overview),
and increasingly aggressive
[anti-union](https://pubs.aeaweb.org/doi/pdfplus/10.1257/jep.2.2.63)
activity on the part of some employers have left most workers without a
sufficient support system to advocate for better benefits, safety, and
voice. This has reduced the quality of jobs, including in construction
and
[manufacturing](https://www.federalreserve.gov/econres/feds/files/2022011pap.pdf)
industries.

Reduced union density and lower job quality can have repercussions for
hiring and retention. In the
[construction](https://www.census.gov/newsroom/blogs/research-matters/2015/10/where-did-all-the-construction-workers-go.html)
industry, trainees who leave
[cite](https://static1.squarespace.com/static/5ea08129e26e0e4587370aed/t/62bbab6ba9bdd610defaaa6a/1656466288703/BTF-2021-Homebuilding-Workforce-Engagement-Study.pdf)
a number of issues, including being on call and dealing with
unpredictable schedules; low pay and poor management; not enough time
for training; little attention to work-life balance; and a lack of
health insurance in a hazardous industry. Likewise, in manufacturing,
one
[survey](https://www.themanufacturinginstitute.org/research/the-aging-of-the-manufacturing-workforce/)
conducted before the pandemic indicates that most manufacturing firms
were concerned about difficulties with hiring and the loss of
institutional and technical knowledge as older workers leave the
industry.

As the Council of Economic Advisers laid out in a
[brief](https://www.whitehouse.gov/cea/written-materials/2022/04/06/blocking-the-low-road-and-paving-the-high-road-management-practices-to-improve-productivity/)
last year, by improving job quality, employers can more easily attract
and retain workers—benefitting their bottom line. At the same time,
improved job quality enables workers to bring home the pay and benefits
that provide an opportunity to reach the middle class, which in turn
supports economic growth. Paying workers fair wages and providing
benefits like paid leave
[can](https://www.princeton.edu/~amas/papers/policepay.pdf)
[increase](https://wpcarey.asu.edu/sites/default/files/documents/Minimum%20Wage%20and%20Individual%20Worker%20Productivity.pdf)
[productivity](https://ideas.repec.org/a/ucp/jlabec/v5y1987i4ps57-86.html),
[reduce](https://irle.berkeley.edu/files/2003/Living-Wage-Policies-at-San-Francisco-Airport.pdf)
[turnover](https://www.journals.uchicago.edu/doi/pdf/10.1086/685449),
and facilitate [hiring](https://www.jstor.org/stable/1816355) and
[retention](https://scholar.harvard.edu/files/nataliaemanuel/files/emanuel_jmp.pdf).
Providing childcare lowers
[turnover](https://link.springer.com/article/10.1023/A:1026575709022)
while increasing the likelihood that parents can
[invest](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S0272775711000495)
in training or additional education and
[work](https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s11150-016-9331-3)
(especially
[full-time](https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10834-018-9582-7)).
Manufacturing firms that focus on [job
quality](https://www.commerce.gov/sites/default/files/migrated/reports/taking-the-high-road-new-data-show-higher-wages-may-increase-productivity-among-other-benefits.pdf),
like increasing pay and providing avenues for workers to have inputs
into the firms’ practices, are better able to attract skilled workers,
experience lower turnover, and higher productivity.

Similarly, unions are already playing a
[central](https://home.treasury.gov/system/files/136/Labor-Unions-And-The-Middle-Class.pdf)
role in developing and training the workforce for the President’s
investments in America. And firms that allow unions to form uninhibited
send a message to potential employees that the employer will value their
work and that they can be confident in a stable, steady job that they
can raise as family on.

While the federal, state, and local governments can help ensure job
quality standards, employers themselves play a large role in lifting up
good quality jobs. A key component of Bidenomics is helping employers
create the conditions to attract and retain the skilled workforce they
need. As Treasury Secretary Janet Yellen has
[laid](https://home.treasury.gov/news/press-releases/jy0565)
[out](https://home.treasury.gov/news/press-releases/jy1585), the
Biden-Harris Administration has put in place a “modern supply side” set
of policies—policies that encourage private sector actors to take the
high road, by creating high-quality jobs that provide dignity and
enabling more workers to participate in the workforce. This means
investing in job quality by supporting strong and stable economic
growth, implementing labor standards around worker protection, and
prioritizing worker empowerment and unionization.

This is why employers who pay prevailing wages for new clean energy
projects and use Registered Apprenticeships—earn while you learn
training efforts—to train skilled workers will receive enhanced tax
credits up to [five
times](https://home.treasury.gov/news/press-releases/jy1708) the base
value for specific credits.

Additionally, earlier this year, the President laid out a [Roadmap to
Support Good
Jobs](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/05/16/biden-harris-administration-roadmap-to-support-good-jobs/#:~:text=The%20roadmap%20focuses%20on%20four,quality%2C%20family%2Dsustaining%20jobs%2C)
that outlined the Administration’s efforts to ensure America’s workers
can access quality jobs from our historic investments. By investing $500
million in less than four months toward worker-centered sectoral
training efforts, significantly Registered Apprenticeships in the
[Trucking](https://www.google.com/search?q=biden+trucking+action+plan)
and
[Cybersecurity](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/11/15/fact-sheet-biden-%E2%81%A0harris-administration-accomplishes-cybersecurity-apprenticeship-sprint/),
and investing over $200 million in training grants for infrastructure
related jobs, the President is making sure we have strong pathways to
quality jobs.

In the first comprehensive regulatory review in nearly 40 years, the
Department of Labor has
[updated](https://www.dol.gov/sites/dolgov/files/WHD/davis-bacon/Final-Rule_Updating-the-Davis-Bacon-Related-Acts.pdf)
the Davis-Bacon regulations to strengthen and streamline the process for
setting and enforcing wage rates on federally funded construction
projects. And this month, the National Labor Relations Board issued a
[decision](https://www.nlrb.gov/news-outreach/news-story/board-issues-decision-announcing-new-framework-for-union-representation)
announcing a new framework for union representation proceedings—where if
an employer commits any unfair labor practices during a representation
election, the Board will order the employer to recognize and bargain
with the union, rather than re-running the election.

While the Administration is setting up the essential training
infrastructure needed for our in-demand jobs, employers should be part
of the solution as well by investing in workers and improving job
quality. When an employer or an industry is well known for high job
quality, applicants will beat a path to the employer’s door. On the
other hand, if an employer or industry has a reputation for low pay,
unsafe conditions, and precarious work, it will have a hard time
attracting a skilled team.

Quality jobs will ensure the benefits of the President’s Investing in
America agenda are shared by all Americans, and that today’s investments
lead to lasting, durable industries and long-term shared economic
growth.
