---
date: '2023-03-03'
modified_time: 2023-03-03 16:57:24-05:00
published_time: 2023-03-03 16:57:23-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2023/03/03/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-16/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine\_Jean-Pierre"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

1:09 P.M. EST    
  
(Reporters laughing.)  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Why are you guys happy?  
  
Q    Because it’s all ladies in the front row!  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  The ladies in the front row!  
  
Q    And it’s Friday.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, my gosh.  So, then I’ll just start in the back,
then.  (Laughter.)  
  
Q    Nooo —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, the guys — (laughs) — (points to back row.)  
  
Well, Happy Friday.  And, yes, it is an all-ladies crew in the front
row.  I wonder if there’s history-making here today.  
  
All right.  Good afternoon, everyone.  Happy Friday.  I’m not sure
what’s going on with Andrea here.  You got it?  You’re good?  
  
(Video on cellphone plays.)  
  
Q    Somebody has got audio.  
  
Q    I’m so sorry.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, it’s Andrea.  She’s trying.  She’s trying,
folks.  
  
I don’t see you very often.  And when I do, you cause a ruckus. 
(Laughter.)   
  
Okay.  So, today, President Biden awarded the Medal of Honor to a true
hero of our nation, Colonel Paris Davis, for the gallantry he displayed
at great personal risk that went above and beyond the call of duty
during combat operations in Vietnam.   
  
You all heard President Biden tell Colonel Davis’s story in powerful
remarks, but I just want to say that Colonel Davis represents the best
of America.  Despite being wounded while leading his men in combat, he
refused to leave the battlefield until all the members of his team were
evacuated.   
  
His bravery and devotion to our country during this battle has been
recognized before in the form of a Silver Star and a Purple Heart.  But
until today, he never received the recognition for his extraordinary
acts — and well-deserved recognition, obviously — which is a Medal of
Honor.   
  
We are proud to welcome Colonel Davis to the White House today as a
Medal of Honor recipient.  
  
Today, the Biden-Harris administration is announcing its 33rd security
assistance package for Ukraine using presidential drawdown authorities
as we continue to surge weapons and equipment that Ukraine needs to
defend itself against Russian aggression.   
  
This package includes more ammunition for U.S.-provided HIMARS and
howitzers that Ukraine is using so effectively to defend itself, as well
as ammunition for Bradley infantry fighting vehicles, armored
vehicle-launched bridges, and demolition mu- — munitions and
equipment.  
  
The United States will continue to rally the world to support Ukraine. 
We have seen incredible commitment from our allies and partners, and
applaud the more than 50 countries, including Germany — as you all know,
Germany’s Chancellor will be here at the White House momentarily — and
that have come together to provide Ukraine with military assistance. 
These contributions are making a significant difference, enabling
Ukraine to defend its sovereignty and territorial integrity.   
  
Russia alone could end this war today if they wished.  They could end
this war today.  Until they are willing to do so, we will continue to
strengthen Ukrainians’ military on the battlefield so that they will be
in the strongest possible position at any future negotiation at the
table.   
   
Now, before we go to questions, I have a little bit of the week ahead,
and I’ll lay that out for you.  
  
On Sunday, March 5th, the President will travel to Selma, Alabama, where
he will commemorate the 58th anniversary of Bloody Sunday.  The
President will deliver remarks at the Edmund Pettus Bridge and
participate in the annual commemorative bridge-crossing event.  
  
In his remarks, President Biden will talk about the importance of
commemorating Bloody Sunday so that history cannot be erased.  He will
highlight how the continued fight for voting rights is integ- — integral
to delivering economic justice and civil rights for Black Americans.   
  
In the evening, the President will return to the White House.  
   
On Monday, the President will headline the 2023 International
Association of Fire Fighters Legislative Conference.  
    
On Thursday, the President will release his budget.  The budget will
show how the President plans to invest in America, continue to lower
costs for families, protect and strengthen Social Security and Medicare,
reduce the deficit, and so much more.  We will have, of course, more
details to share with all of you next week.  
  
On Friday, the President will welcome President Ursula von der Leyen of
the European Commission to the White House.    The leaders will review
the strong cooperation between the United States and the European Union
to support Ukraine as it defends its sovereignty and democracy, and to
impose costs on Russia as — for its aggression against Ukraine.  
  
 They will also discuss U.S.-EU coordination to combat the climate
crisis through investing in clean technology based on secure supply
chains.  
  
The leaders — the leaders will take — will take stock of the joint Task
Force on Europe’s Energy Security that they established one year ago,
which has helped the EU reduce its independence — or dependence, pardon
me, on Russian fossil fuels and accelerate its green transition.  
  
They will also discuss other international security challenges,
including our work together to address the challenges posed by the
People’s Republic of <s>Russia</s> \[China\].  
  
With that, Colleen, good to see you.  It’s been a while.  
  
Q    Thanks.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  You have the floor.  
  
Q    Karine, it is your 100th press briefing today.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, my gosh.  
  
Q    So —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m sure you’re thrilled.  
  
Q    Congratulations.  (Laughs.)  How — how do you feel about that?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, my gosh.  All right.  Well, cheers.  
  
Q    Cheers.  
  
So, moving right along, I wanted to ask about the D.C. crime — criminal
code.  Again, we’re — we’ve been hearing that some of the House
Democrats feel like they got thrown under the bus a little bit by the
President’s decision not to step in on the effort to stop the overhaul —
which is a lot of negatives, I understand, but I think you know where
I’m going.   
  
So, I wanted to know, you know: Did the President give them a heads-up
on the decision?  Was there any sort of back-and-forth about it?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, first, let me just say that the White House
notified the — notified the members at the House retreat, as you know,
back — that was earlier this week — or is still happening — in
Baltimore.  So that’s number one.  
  
Number two, I do want to lay out that the President and the
administration has a very close relationship with House Democrats and
Senate Democrats as well.   
  
We have worked together.  The President has worked very well with the
members on delivering bold, historic pieces of legislation in his first
two years of his administration and is very proud of the relationship
that he has with them.  And our teams are constantly in communication
with them.   
  
And so, I’ll leave that there.  This is a very strong, important
relationship for all of us here, including the President.   
  
I also want to state that, look, the President supports D.C. statehood. 
That is something that you saw in his SAP for this particular D.C. crime
bill.  And if Congress sends him a bill making D.C. a state, he’ll
always, always be sure to sign it, because he’s been talk- — he’s been
talking about that for the last two decades.   
  
But, you know, vetoing the bill headed to this — his desk now won’t make
— make D.C. a state.  And so, those are the things that the President is
really — has been very clear about when it comes to D.C. and their
statehood.   
  
And so, I’ll leave it there.  But as it relates to the House, as it
relates to Senate Democrats, it is a very important relationship to —
for us and, clearly, very important.   
  
And with the Senate Democratic Caucus, as you know, when he met with
them yesterday, he provided what he was going to do and made it very
clear to them, and they had that discussion.   
  
Q    I just also want to ask — so, you know, Biden and the Democrats
have talked a lot about the need to stem, you know, rising crime, but
also the need to reform a criminal justice system that still
disproportionately affects, you know, Black Americans.   
  
So why not engage in some sort of compromise or why not let the D.C.
bill — because, you know, the mayor vetoed the criminal code but she
also proposed some changes that she thought would have made the system,
sort of, better on the whole.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I just want to be very clear here.  And if you
look at the D.C. bill itself — and I know that there was a little bit of
— I was asked a couple of questions of what else does it do besides
armed carjacking.  And I don’t normally go line by line on — on
legislation, especially legislation that we haven’t introduced.  But I
did talk to the team, and we have a couple of things that I just want to
lay out for all of you and — on what the D.C. bill does.  
  
It reduces maximum penalties for offenses like murders and other
homicides; armed — armed home invasion burglaries; armed — armed
carjackings, as I mentioned; armed robberies; unlawful gun possession;
and some sexual assault offenses.   
  
And so, look, the President has been very clear we need to do more to
reduce crime, to make communities safer, to save lives.  And that’s why
he put together — he put forth his Safer America Plan that does just
that — that we believe does exactly that.  
  
So, the way that we see this bill, it doesn’t actually reform policing
practices.  That’s not something that it does — reform like the ones the
President has put forward at the federal level — you know, about the
executive order.  When it couldn’t be done on the Senate side, making —
doing — moving forward with police reform, the President put forth a
historic piece — piece of — an executive order to get — to try to do
what we can at the federal level.   
  
And so, we believe that this bill does not actually do that.   
  
Q    Question on the meeting today with the German Chancellor.  Not long
ago, both Chancellor Scholz, along with President Macron, reportedly
told Zelenskyy that he would, you know, soon have to make difficult
decisions urging the start of peace negotiations.  
  
Does the President see that as a sign that the united front that he has
worked so hard to maintain, you know, may be not that united that much
longer?  And how much does he see today’s sit-down as a chance to just
urge Scholz to stay the course and stick with this?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, the President is looking forward to — for a
productive meeting with the German Chancellor.  They first met — I don’t
know if some of you have been tracking this — but they first met when he
became German Chancellor early last year — I believe, on February 7th —
soon after he, clearly, took office.  And they met here at the White
House.   
  
And over the past — the past several years, they’ve seen each other at
the margins of the G7, at the summit in Germany; at NATO; at the G20
Summit; and have talked by phone regularly.   
  
And so this is a — clearly, a relationship that has been — that has been
growing over the last year.  And so, you know, what we’re seeing, what
he’s — how we see this meeting is a bilateral cooperation to talk about
a range of issues, global security, economic issues.  And at the
forefront of the — of this meeting that they’re going to have — this
bilat that they’ll pretty soon, it will be on Ukraine.  And that
coordination is going to continue.   
  
You saw the President in Warsaw.  You saw him in Kyiv.  You saw him
having a bilat with the B9 and — well, a meeting with the B9, a bilat
with the President of Poland.   
  
And all of those — all of the actions and the meetings that the
President has had over the last just several months is showing, I think,
the strength — the strength of — of the union, the stren- — the strength
of the EU, the strength of their — what you’re seeing with the NATO
Allies and Europe and the West.  And so I think that’s going to
continue.  We believe that’s going to continue.   
  
Remember, when — when Russia, when Putin first started out on this war,
he thought that NATO would be divided.  He thought that the West would
be divided.  And we just have not seen that.  If anything, we’re seeing
more coordination and more support for the people of Ukraine, for
President Zelenskyy, and the efforts that they’re doing on the ground to
defend their democracy.  
  
Q    But you are seeing signs that their approach may start — is
starting to look a little bit different, right?  You say over and over
again here, the President says, you know, “Nothing about Ukraine without
Ukraine.”  And yet, you do see some allies saying, you know, “It is time
to get — to get to the — to the negotiating table.”  They’re concerned
that they’ll be able to do this for as long as it takes, as the
President says.  So does that not spark concern and worry amongst the
President, around —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  But — but, look, Mary, we want this war to end.  We
do.  We want this war to end.  But it doesn’t look like Russia is going
to do that, right?  And it is up to — they could.  They could end this
this war today, but they’re not.   
  
And so what we’re going to continue to do is support Ukraine the best
way that we can.  We just announced, I just laid out a PDA, our 33rd
drawdown since this war started.  And we’re going to continue to do
that, continue to give them the support that they need on the ground.   
  
And, look, you’ve heard President Zelenskyy talk about peace and wanting
— wanting to move forward with peace.  But at the same time, we have to
make sure we strengthen their hand, when those negotiations happen, that
they are in a place of strength.  And so that’s what you’re seeing from
— from this President.  That’s what you’re seeing from the allies across
the globe.   
  
And you’re going to see the President meeting with the German Chancellor
today.  We’re going to continue to show that — that supportive front,
that coordination.  They’re going to have that discussion.  And you saw
that last week when the President was — was in Eastern Europe.   
  
Q    I guess, just — it’s a sort of a housekeeping matter, but has the
President had a chance yet or does he plan to speak with former
President Carter or members of his family, given that I don’t think
they’ve spoken yet since the news of his hospice care?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, there’s — I don’t have a call to preview or to
announce.  As you know, and I’ve said this many times before and I think
you — many of you have reported this, that they’ve known each other
since 1976.  It’s a — it’s a relationship that has spanned many — many
decades.   
  
The President, certainly, and the First Lady — their hearts are — are
with the — are with President Carter and his family.   
  
I don’t — I just don’t have a conversation to preview at this time.   
  
Q    But given the importance of that relationship, is it something —
you know, it seems odd that it hasn’t happened yet, I guess.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, I mean, look, we — you know, the President, when
it’s time — when it’s time and appropriate, certainly that conversation
will happen.   
  
I just don’t have anything at this time to preview.  
  
Go ahead, Andrea.  
  
Q    So, an EU official just said that the two sides are working toward
an agreement in principle on a very limited agreement that would create
a free trade-like status for the EU that would put it on par roughly
with Canada and Mexico, in terms of the IRA.  Can you say anything more
about your hopes for reaching some kind of a deal — at least on a very
high level — when von der Leyen arrives next week?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, I don’t want to get in — ahead of — of that
meeting.  Clearly, that’s going to be another important bilateral
meeting, focusing on the coordination, of course, on Ukraine and other
important security issues and economic issues, as you just laid out,
that both sides care about — right? — the <s>American</s> \[European\]
Union and, clearly, the United States.  
  
As it relates to the IRA investments, the clean energy future will be
invented and built and made in America.  That’s how we see the IRA’s
investment.  The President will never back down from putting American
jobs and American leadership at the heart of his strategy.  Taxpayer
dollars should go to support American jobs and American innovation.   
  
But the IRA’s benefits expand beyond the U.S.  Our investment will help
drive down costs for clean energy, which will help other nations as
well.  That’s how we see this important law that the President clearly
fought tooth and nail for.  And it’s going to go further and faster in
building their own clean energy economies.  
  
I’m not going to, again, get ahead of a meeting that’s going to happen
next week.  But the President — and we have been very clear on how
important we feel the Inflation Reduction Act is.   
  
And, again, we’re always going to make sure that we support American —
American jobs and, clearly, American tax dollars.  
  
Q    But I think the question is: How important is it to you to remove
this irritant in the relationship at a time when you’re looking at a
protracted war in Ukraine, potentially China delivering lethal aid?  I
mean, is it important to shore up the alliance and, at this point,
remove irritants like this trade issue?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, look, the — clearly, the relationship is
important to this President.  You have seen him, across two years,
rebuild our relationship with our allies, something that was almost
decimated in the last administration.   
  
We have a President who understands the importance of those types of
foreign leadership relationships, who had them for many years before
becoming President.   
  
And so, of course, we want to make sure there’s a good working
relationship.  And we’re — you’re going to see — you’re going to see him
continue to do that.   
  
Again, I don’t want to get ahead of what the agenda is going to be or
what’s going to be discussed with the — with the EU next week.   
  
But what I can say: It’s an important conversation that will conti- —
that they will have.  It’ll focus on, clearly, Ukraine, that continued
coordination and support for the Ukrainian people, as they are bravely
fighting for their democracy.  
  
Q    And then, just one on the domestic front, on the budget.  To what
extent are you expecting the care economy and all those proposals that
got, you know, removed from the previous pieces of legislation to come
back?  Will we see those items come back in one by one?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I’m not going to get ahead of the President’s
budget.  It’s going to be released next Thursday, March 9th.   
  
But clearly, the President remains committed to — to fighting for paid
leave and childcare policies.  That is something, clearly, he fought
very hard for it in the beginning of the year, as we were trying to move
forward with that piece of legislation.   
  
And so — and we believe fighting for what I just mentioned — paid leave
and childcare — is going to help grow the economy, is going to help give
American families and Americans across the country a little bit of a
breathing room.   
  
But, again, I’m just not going to get ahead of the President’s — of the
President’s budget that will be out next week.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  Just following up on Colleen’s question on the
D.C. crime bill.  The House Democrats who are expressing anger and
frustration, they are in part saying that they wish they had known
sooner what the President’s position would be.  As you know, a whole
bunch of House Democrats already voted against the bill.  Why didn’t the
White House make this position clear before that vote had taken place in
the House?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, when we put out the SAP — I think it was
around the State of the Union; I think that’s when the SAP came out — we
were very clear on where — in what — where the President was, which is
making sure that he continues his commitment to D.C. statehood.  And
that’s what you saw in that SAP, in that support for D.C. statehood.   
  
And at the time, you know, many times — many of — even earlier this
week, many of you were asking me — I think your colleague was asking me
which direction the President was going to go.  And he never made that
clear in that SAP.   
  
And I think as it was becoming — we always let — we always let the
process in Congress go through — right? — whatever mechanism they take,
however it moves forward.  So we never — we’re always very clear and
careful about that.   
  
But as it now looks like it was going to come to his desk, we wanted to
communicate where we were going to go.  We wanted to communicate how the
President was going to move forward with — with this particular bill.   
  
And we did.  And we — we laid that out.   
  
He — we’re explaining that now — why he — he is moving forward in that
way.   
  
And the White House and congressional Dem- — Democrats, as we have
known, have come together on many different things to deliver for the
American people, and the President wants to continue to do so.   
  
Q    But I guess, you know, the President supports D.C. statehood; he’s
been clear about that.  But he’s not going to veto this bill from
Congress, which does amount to Congress sort of meddling in D.C. own
governance.  Right?   
  
So how do you square that circle?  Both things can’t be true.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, we believe both things can be true.  Look, right
now, D.C. is not a state.   
  
This is coming to the President.  Right?  This is something that’s
coming to his desk, and he has to take action.   
  
I just laid out, a moment ago, to Colleen why we felt that this bill
doesn’t actually deal with police reform.  This President has been
someone, for many years, many decades, who has always put the safety of
American, American families, certainly across the country, first. 
That’s why he put together his Safer America Plan that lays out 100,000
cops in communities to work with communities, to make sure that
communities feel safe.   
  
The COPS — the COPS plan, that is something that the President started
as senator.  It’s something — it’s actually a policy that Republicans
want to not fund and take that away — take away — away an option to make
communities safe.   
  
So this is something that the President cares about very strongly.  And
the way that we see it is that this is coming to the President’s desk. 
This is not a legislation that he put forward.  D.C. is not yet a state,
even though he supports D.C. statehood.  And he had to make a
decision.   
  
And, look, again, we let the process move forward in Congress, and we
felt this was the time to make that decision.  
  
Q    And I just had a quick follow-up on East Palestine.  Senator
Manchin said this week that the President visiting there would give
confidence to the residents.   
  
Obviously, I know you guys haven’t announced anything — no plans right
now for him to go there — but do you think it could make a difference
for the President to go, even if all that accomplished was to give some
sort of reassurance to many of the residents there who are still very
worried and upset about what happened?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, I believe you heard from the President just
yesterday, who said that he is — he’s planning to go there at some
point.  What he’s going to do is he — we’re going to — when that
happens, he’s going to — we’re going to coordinate with state and local
officials to make that trip occur.   
  
Look, what the President has been focused on is making sure that we make
the community, the people of East Palestine whole again, to make sure
that they get what they need to feel safe, to make sure that they feel
like their community is healthy again.   
  
That’s why the air — that’s why we made sure that the air is safe,
right?  That’s why we made sure the water is safe.   
  
But he understands how the community feels about what happened and what
occurred in their — in — you know, in their community these past couple
of weeks.   
  
That’s why HHS, FEMA — FEMA, DOT, EPA have been on the ground, and it’s
been a multi-agency effort to make sure that they get what they need, to
make sure that they have that safe air, that safe water, as I just
mentioned.   
  
And the last part of that is we’re going to make sure that Norfolk
<s>Suffolk</s> \[Southern\] is — is held to account for the mess that
they created.  And that’s what you’re seeing.  You’re — you’ve seen the
EPA Administrator; he was just there for a third time.   
  
And so, the President is committed.  He’s keeping abreast — or updated
on a daily basis on what’s going on on the ground.  He’s talked to the
governor of Ohio, he’s spoken to the governor of Pennsylvania, the
senators multiple times to make sure that they are getting everything
that they need from the federal government.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you, Karine.  You mentioned the SAP that the administration
put out on February 6th.  But it’s not a broad statement about D.C.
statehood.  It specifically says that the administration opposes the
resolution that would dismantle the crime bill.  So when was this policy
reversed?  And why weren’t House Democrats notified about the
reversal?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, from — I’ll say this: There was never a change of
heart on where we were with — with the SAP.   
  
The SAP, the way that it’s laid out, speaks to the President supporting
D.C. statehood.  That is what — that is where we were.  That’s what we
were at the time.  Wanted to make sure that we, again, lifted up where
the President has been for the past decades, making sure that D.C. — you
know, fighting for D.C. to become a state.   
  
And we actually say in the SAP that if — you know, if — you know, if
Congress wants to move forward in that way, we should pass H.R. 51, make
D.C. the 51 state.  
  
And so, we never laid out where we — where the President was going to —
was going to go once that — once it came to his desk because we wanted
to allow Congress to move forward in a way that they normally do with a
mechanism — when a — when a piece of legislation moves forward.   
  
And so, we never said anything at this time.  Now we’re communicating
very clearly.  Now that we know that this legislation is going to be in
the President’s — at the President’s desk, we’re making very clear and
communicating that — where the President is on this — on this
legislation.  
  
Q    But do you — wait, I’m sorry.  It specifically says the word
“opposes.”  So is it that the administration wasn’t aware of the
content, the specifics of the crime bill, and now you are aware and the
President says he doesn’t support some of the changes that the D.C.
Council put forward?   
  
Because when you released the SAP, I’m assuming, maybe incorrectly, that
you were very aware of what the Council was proposing.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We were aware what the Council proposed — were
proposing.  What we’re saying was that we wanted to make sure that we
continued the President’s — the President’s continued push for — for
statehood.  And that’s what we did.  That’s what we did in the SAP.  And
that was what was the most important thing that we believed.  
  
There was no veto threat in the SAP.  There really wasn’t.  We may have
— it may have been — I just read it while you were asking me.  We didn’t
oppo- — we opposed it, but there was no veto threat.   
  
So I want to be really clear about it.  It stated our support for D.C.
statehood, but it did not indicate what the President would do should
the bill come to his desk.  It did not say that.  It did not lay that
out.   
  
Now we’re communicating that very clearly.  We communicated with the
House Democrats days ago, when they were in Baltimore.  And — and again,
I said this — I said this to MJ.  I remember many of you asking where we
were going to go.  And I said we don’t have any — we don’t have a
decision yet, we don’t have anything to share on this — on where the
President is going to be with this particular bill.  And now we are,
because we know that it’s going to come to his desk.  
  
Q    There must be some state laws that the President also disagrees
with that have to do with crime.  And he obviously doesn’t have the
power to do anything about that.  I’m trying to square his decision to
use his power to do something in D.C. while he’s also saying, you know,
the federal government shouldn’t — should allow them to be their own
state.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Because D.C. is not a state.   
  
Q    So —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, this bill —  
  
Q    — he can, and therefore he should?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  D.C. is not a state.  So therefore, the bill is coming
to his desk, so he has to make a decision.  It’s as simple as that,
Weijia.  Right?  Because D.C. is not a state.   
  
Now, he wants D.C. to become a state.  We’ve been very clear about
that.  He has said that for decades that he believes in D.C. statehood. 
But it’s not a — it’s not.   
  
And so, therefore, because D.C. is not a state, when bills like this
come — occur, it goes to the President.  And he has to make a decision. 
And that’s where we are.  It’s as simple as that.   
  
Now, if D.C. becomes a state, yes, the President believes that it should
be governing — a city should be governing on its own.  That’s what he
believes.   
  
Q    But until then, they shouldn’t.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  But D- — Weijia, D.C. is not a state.  
  
Q    Right.  But, I mean, he has the —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  (Laughs.)  
  
Q    He has the — I’m asking because he does have an option to veto. 
That is one action he could take.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Right.  But, again, this is a President that believes
in keeping communities safe.  He believes in keeping the 700,000
residents in D.C. safe.  And so, he’s taking that action because it’s
coming to him.   
  
We didn’t put this legislation toge- — forth.  This is not our
legislation.  This is a legislation that is coming before the President
of the United States because D.C. is not a state.  It’s just not.   
  
So, he has to make a decision, so he’s going to make a decision that
will — that will help the residents of D.C., that will deliver for the
residents of D.C.  And it’s as simple as that.  
  
Q    Thank you.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.  
  
Q    I’m seeing two, perhaps, parallels here in the discussion about the
SAP, which is the statement of administration policy.  Isn’t it really
boiling down to: There was one train here that was saying that the
administration opposed this, and then, really, when the recognition
takes place, this would make the President look anti-“tough on crime,”
that the wheels stopped, and now you have a new position?  Isn’t that
really what happened here?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  What I can tell you what happened is that there was no
change of heart.  Yes, in the — in the language — I just read it as —
read it again, as Weijia was talking — was asking her question — there
was the word “opposed,” but we never indicated — which is not unusual;
it is not unusual for a SAP — in the SAP for the President to not
indicate if he will veto or if he will sign.  It is not unusual to do
that.   
  
Now that we know that it’s going to come to his desk, we’re
communicating that very clearly.  The President communicated that with
all of you yesterday.  And so, now we have made a decision on where
we’re going to go with this particular piece of legislation.  
  
Q    In — in a bigger sense, because, you know, those of us who cover
this read these things all the time.  The general public may not even
know what we’re talking about here.   
  
But it seems like —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, I’m pretty sure they are not.  (Laughs.)  
  
Q    Yes.  So, there — but there was a —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m pretty sure this is —  
  
Q    — there was a bureaucratic push in one direction on this.  And
then, when it reached a certain point — and crime is a big issue in
America in certain cities.  We saw it reflected in the election in
Chicago.  We know it’s a concern.  It’s been a concern in the city that
many of us live in here.  And then, boom, the President has to make a
decision, and he’s going a different direction than the administration
setup.  Isn’t it really just that simple?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I wouldn’t say it’s that simple.  First of all, let me
just step back for a second.  This is — when you look at crime and the
rise of crime over the last couple of years, this is something that the
President inherited and he took action — right? — with the Safer America
Plan and making sure that he did everything that he can, using the tools
that he has in federal government, to put forth a plan that will keep
communities safe.   
  
I talked about the 100,000 cops, to put them in communities, working
with communities to make sure communities feel safe.  And that’s not
just that.  There’s the COPS program, right?  And we’re going to see,
from the President’s budget, how his commitment to that — his commitment
to cops.  
  
What we are seeing is we saw D.C. Council put forth a piece of — a piece
of legislation.  They’re not a state.  They went through their
processes, right?  They went through their mechanics.  It ends — it
ended up in Congress.  We put out a SAP saying: Yes, we oppose it, but
also we support D.C. statehood.  That’s what it says in our SAP.  
  
But we never indicated from that where the President was going to go,
because we were also letting that process play out in Congress.   
  
Now that we know that it’s coming to the desk of the President, the
President — we’re communicating where the President stands on this piece
of the D.C. crime bill, this piece of legislation.  
  
Q    The other sharp turn, quickly.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    On East Palestine: Not going to go.  Not visiting.  No plans to
visit.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Not at this — not at this time, as you —  
  
Q    Okay.  But the President —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — heard from the President.  
  
Q    — himself says, “Okay, I’m going to go there at some point.”  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  At some point.   
  
Q    Okay.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yep.  
  
Q    So there’s a political, critical mass that has been building, and
it would appear that this is one of those national events where people
will not be satisfied until the President himself goes there, even if
you have all of your important Cabinet-level officials go.   
  
So it also appears as if, “Not going to go.  Not going to go.  Okay, now
we’re going to go.”   
  
So what are the factors that will be required for the President to go? 
Is it a specific deliverable that he can bring?  Is it a specific
invitation from local officials?  Is it a certain kind of window where
he will feel comfortable to go?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, he already got a — an invitation from the
governor.  I think you heard the governor said he’s welcome to come to
Ohio.  He’s been to Ohio many times before during his administration. 
So, it’s not unusual for him to go there.   
  
Look, I don’t have anything to preview.  The President was asked a
question.  He answered it very honestly.   
  
And once we have more to share as to if there is a trip ahead, you know,
we’re going to coordinate — it would be coordinated with the state and
official — officials on the ground.  And we’ll certainly lay out what
that current —  
  
Q    But you see the change?  I mean, the President himself said, “No, I
have no plans to go.”  And then yesterday said —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well —  
  
Q    — he’ll go “at some point.”  So I’m just trying to get at —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I think he was —  
  
Q    — what is the switch?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — he was asked a direct question.  And he’s been —
he’s been updated throughout — being regularly updated on — on what has
been happening on the ground by his team, by the local and state
officials in Ohio and Pennsylvania.  And, you know, I will just leave it
there.   
  
We know the President.  He answers a question very honestly.  And he
prob- — he said, you know, “Sometime in the future, I will probably
go.”   
  
But I don’t have anything to share.  We don’t have a plan for the
President to go at this time.  We don’t have anything to preview to all
of you at this time.  It’s just a — he has — he was asked the question,
and he answered it honestly.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks.  Just on the D.C. issue, just one point of clarity.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  
  
Q    Does the President view this as a one-time interference in D.C.
affairs?  Or does he hold out —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  That’s a hypothetical.  
  
Q    — the possibility that that could happen again?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, that’s a hypothetical that I can’t answer from
here.  This is — there was a specific issue that came before us —  
  
Q    If another bill comes —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — and the Pres- — and the Pres- — yeah, but it’s —
you’re — you’re asking a hypothetical —  
  
Q    Okay.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — that I can’t answer at this time.  
  
Q    Senator Menendez urged the President yesterday to appoint or
nominate a Latino American to the — as Fed Vice Chair.  Can you say — I
know you don’t want to get ahead of the process, but can you say
publicly whether a Latino American is under consideration for Vice
Chair?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — I’m not going to get ahead of the process.  
  
Q    Hey.  A couple of questions.  One is, I wanted to ask for the
administration’s response to Walgreens saying that they won’t distribute
abortion pills in states where Republican governors have asked them not
to.  I want to know what you all are thinking.  And are you concerned
that other pharmacies who have been threatened with potential legal
action will follow suit?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, I have a statement here that I want to read out
to all of you:  
  
So, elected officials targeting pharmacies and their ability to provide
women with access to safe, effective, and FDA-approved medication is
dangerous and just unacceptable.   
  
We’ve said this before, I’ve said this before: Pills — this pill that
has been on the market for more than two decades — more than two decades
— and is regularly used for both miscarriage and management and
abortion, as also it’s used in more than 60 countries.   
  
The Department of Justice has already independently issued an opinion
related to this issue that is at odds with this dangerous effort.   
  
This is — this is all a part of a continued effort by anti-abortion
extremists who want to use this arcane law to impose a door — a backdoor
ban on abortion.   
  
The administration will continue to stand by the FDA’s expert judgment
in approving and regulating medications.  And in the face of barriers to
access and concerns about safety of patients, healthcare providers, and
pharm- — pharmacists, we will continue to support access to this
critical medication within the limits of the law, which is why the
President issued his January — a recent presidential memorandum that
aims to preserve continued access to a safe drug that — and will
emphasize, again, it is used for miscarriage management and abortion.   
  
So that is what we wanted to say on the Walgreens front.  
  
Q    So it sounds like you all think it’s dangerous.  Are there any sort
of mechanisms that you see for continuing to provide access in those
cases?   
  
Has the White House been in touch or the administration been in touch
with Walgreens?  I mean, it’s a huge pharmacy —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No —  
  
Q    — throughout much of the country.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, totally.  I totally understand, which is why we’re
saying this is, unfortunately, unacceptable and dangerous.   
  
Look, the Department of Justice is — independently issued a — an opinion
related to this.  I’m not going to get ahead of that, or I’ll just, you
know, make sure — you know, refer you to that.   
  
But I’m just not going to have anything more than what I just laid
out.  
  
Q    Shifting gears totally.  I wanted to ask you about inflation.  The
Fed said today, actually in its semi-annual report to Congress — it
suggested that more rate hikes would be needed to curb inflation.  And I
know you all have been fairly confident that inflation is slowing and
that this would all lead to a soft landing.  I’m curious if you will
still feel that a soft landing is possible.  And if so, can you help me
understand why you are so confident in that assessment?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  And we have said that it’s — it — there’s going to be
a — it’s going to go into a steady and stable growth, and sometimes
there’ll be some ups and downs.  Right?  We have been very clear about
that.  I think the last — Brian Deese’s last briefing, he actually laid
that out for all of you.   
  
Look, the way that we see it, and the reason why we feel very confident
in this, is that the President’s economic agenda — the way that we see
it and others have as well is that it’s — it’s making progress to bring
inflation down.  
  
You have inflation that’s down by 30 percent from last summer.  But we
always understand that there’s more work to do.   
  
The whole — and we also understand that the way that we got here is
because of COVID-19, it’s because of Russia’s war against Ukraine.  All
of those things have disrupted global energy, food supplies, and caused
inflation to spike around the world.   
  
But the President is going to continue to do everything that he can to
lower costs.  You’re going to see his March 9th budget in less than a
week, at this point.  And he — we lowered — we — he — we helped to lower
gas prices by a buck-sixty.  It is now at a — by a buck-sixt- — -sixty a
gallon from its peak from Putin’s war.  
  
The real wages are higher than they were seven months ago.  
  
And so, we’re going to continue to do that.  Let’s not forget, when we —
when we think about the — the pieces of legislations that were passed
under this President — capping insulin by 35 bucks per month for seniors
on Medicare — those are the things that matter.   
  
Now, we see pharma companies like Eli Lilly doing — doing the same, but
for all Americans — capping at 35 bucks.   
  
Those are the things that we’re going to continue to work on to lower —
to lower costs for people.   
  
And — and so, again, you’re going to see the President’s budget next
week.   
  
But the data — the data shows us how inflation is — has been moderating
over the last six months.  And we think that’s —  
  
Q    But it’s been persistent —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — important to speak to.  
  
Q    — too, though.  I mean, it’s been —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah —  
  
Q    — I would say, rather sticky.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  And well — and that’s why we say we have more work to
do.  We’re not saying that we don’t have more work to do.  We say this —
every time we talk about inflation, every time we talk about the
economy, we say that there’s more work to do.  That’s why the President
takes extra steps, like the IRA — takes extra steps to make sure that we
bring down costs for the American family.   
  
But the data shows it has indeed moderated.  And so, that’s what we look
at.  That — to your — to your question — original question — that — what
gives us some encouragement that — that we will get to that steady and
stable growth.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    I just want to go back to the bilateral.  Last time Chancellor
Scholz was here was just a few weeks before the start of the war.  Back
then, in the lead- —     
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, (inaudible).  
  
Q    — in the lead-up to the invasion, there was really an effort by the
President to sort of gather up support, unite the allies, and be
prepared to sort of react as quickly as possible with sanctions, with
help to Ukraine.  Are these similar conversations happening right now
between the U.S. and European allies, other allies, to be ready for the
possibility that China sends weapons to Russia and to be ready to act
quickly the way they were ready to act quickly a year ago?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, first of all, as you know, they had a G7 call just
last week.  The President was in — in Ukraine, and he was also in
Poland.  There’s constant communication with our allies that the
President is having.  It doesn’t — it doesn’t — they’re not one-offs
here.  They are — they’re consistent, and they’re continuous.  And so, I
just want to be very clear there.   
  
And look, you know, we have said this over and over again: We have not —
you know, we have not seen any — we have not seen any — any — we have
not seen China do anything yet, as it relates to lethal — lethal
weapons.  And we believe that Russia’s war in Ukraine has put China in a
difficult position to actually — you know, to actually move forward in
that direction.   
  
Every step China takes towards Russia makes it harder for China with
Europe and other countries around the world.   
  
But, you know, I want to be really clear on that piece.  But you — as I
— as I’ve mentioned before: Secretary Blinken met with Wang Yi just
recently in Munich and made himself really clear.  They had a very clear
conversation.  And keeping that communication — that line of
communication open is very important to us as well.  
  
But, again, we haven’t seen China take that action yet.  But we’ve been
very clear and had conversations with China.  
  
Q    If I could, another one on the IRA.  This meeting of with
Chancellor Scholz is one of several meetings with European leaders.   
  
When President Macron was here for the state visit in early December,
the message of the administration was: We are in listening mode.  We are
hearing the concerns of our European allies, and we’re having
discussions.   
  
Has there been any progress?  Any change?  Or is this still
hearing/listening mode?  And —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So I spoke to this a little bit.  These relationships
are clearly important to us.  They’re — we’re still in listening mode. 
We’re still in discussion.  And just don’t have anything more to share
on what’s next with that.

But we think — we think the, you know, Inflation Reduction Act is
incredibly important to the American people, to our taxpayers.  We’re
always going to make sure that we support American jobs and American
innovation.  The President will never back down from that.  And so, I’ll
just leave it there.

Q    Tennessee’s governor signed two anti-LGBTQ bills into law on
Thursday: one that bans many drag performances from taking place on
public property, another bans most gender-affirming care to transgender
youth.  What does the White House make of these laws?  And is there
anything you can do or planning to do about these laws?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I’ll say this: The American people are focused on
so many issues.  We just talked about economy.  We just talked about
inflation.  We’re talking about safer an- — safer communities and
schools, and good healthcare.  All of the things that you all ask me
every day.  And you all know that’s what the American people care
about. 

That’s what — even when they went to vote in November, those were the
issues that mattered the most to them.  But instead of doing anything to
address those real issues that are impacting American people, right now
you have a governor from Tennessee has decided to go after drag
shows.   
  
What sense does that make to go after drag shows?  How is that going to
help people’s lives who are thinking about the economy, who are thinking
about making sure their kids are going — are going to be safe when they
go to school or their communities are safe?  But that’s what he wants to
focus on.

So it’s part of a larger pattern from elected officials who espouse
freedom and liberty but apparently think that freedom of speech only
extends to people who agree with them.  And that’s what we’re seeing
from what’s happening in Tennessee and other places, as well.

So, you know, don’t take my words for it and — of — on this issue.  The
governor himself hasn’t been able to — if you think about this
particular issue, he hasn’t been able to cite any examples, anything to
show that drag shows in public spaces are a problem.  He hasn’t.  He
hasn’t laid that out at all on why this is an issue for American people.

So I’ve said this before from here.  I said this, I believe, last week,
and we’ll — we’ll keep saying it — that these ridiculous policies aren’t
just unnecessary, they are dangerous.  They are — they vilify our fellow
Americans and — at a time when LGBTQ Americans are facing higher risk
and violence, mental health issues.   
  
And it is unacceptable.  It is completely unacceptable for a governor to
be moving in this way to be — with such a bill.  And is — it is also
unfortunate.

Q    And what’s your message to the LGBTQ youth in the state, as well as
drag performers?  What’s your message to them?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So the President always has been very clear when it
comes to vulnerable communities, like the LGBTQ community, that he has
their backs.  And he has a record to show that.  He has a record that —
that shows that he supports this community and will continue to be there
for the community as — as long as it takes.

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Karine.  I want to go back to something Ed asked you just
the other day when you were talking about safer communities — and that
is the issue of cartels.

The Attorney General was asked whether or not he’d be open to labeling
the top cartels in Mexico as foreign terrorist organizations.  He said
he didn’t oppose the idea.

Just yesterday, Bill Barr — his predecessor — Merrick Garland’s
predecessor — went a bit further, saying that the U.S. should have a
military presence inside Mexico.

So now it’s the two most recent Attorney Generals — one in a Democratic
administration, one in a Republican administration — basically saying,
“We can do more about this issue going forward.”

So a couple of questions along that line.  Does the Biden administration
need to reassess its posture as it relates to taking on these cartels?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m just not going to get ahead of what the Department
of Justice said, of what Merrick Garland said.  As you know, they — they
move in an independent way.  I’m just not going to get ahead of any
policies that may be coming out from the Department of Justice.  And
I’ll just leave it there.

Q    What about Bill Barr suggesting that maybe we put a military
presence or have a military presence inside Mexico?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m not going to comment to —

Q    Has the President —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m not going to comment on what Bill Barr has said.

Q    But has the President ever thought about that idea or considered
that idea?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m — but you’re asking me to comment on Bill Barr,
who was the Attorney General during Trump’s administration.  I’m just
not going to comment.

Q    What about the —

Q    Karine, the pool has to gather.

Q    — general idea though?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, okay.  Hold on.

So, the pool has to gather.  What’s the plan?

MS. DALTON:  The Scholz visit is —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, the Scholz visit.  Okay.  All right.  So, what are
we — what are we doing?  (Laughs.)  We need to wrap it up?

MS. DALTON:  Wrap it up.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  All right.  We got to wrap it up.  Sorry,
guys.  Have a great weekend.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.   
  
Q    Happy 100.

1:55 P.M. EST
