---
date: '2023-03-02'
published_time: 2023-03-02 12:12:09-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2023/03/02/background-press-call-by-senior-administration-officials-previewing-the-biden-harris-administrations-national-cyber-strategy/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Background Press Call by Senior Administration Officials Previewing the Biden-\u2060\
  Harris Administration\u2019s National Cyber\_Strategy"
---
 
Via Teleconference

5:02 P.M. EST  
  
MODERATOR:  Hi everyone.  And thanks for joining.  This is \[Moderator\]
from NSC.   
  
Before we get started, a quick housekeeping: Everyone on this call
should have received the embargoed copy of the factsheet and an
embargoed version of the strategy.  All of that is embargoed until 5:00
a.m. tomorrow for reference.  If you haven’t, please reach out to
Michael Morris from ONCD, and he’ll be able to help you out.  But with
that, I guess we’ll get to it.   
  
Welcome to our call previewing the national — the Biden-Harris
administration’s National Cyber Strategy.  We’ll start this call on
record with remarks from the acting Director —  Cyber National Director
Kemba Walden and the <s>NSC’s Deputy Director</s> \[Deputy National
Security Advisor\] for Cyber and Emerging Technologies, Anne
Neuberger.   
  
And then we’ll move to a background, attributable to “senior
administration officials” for a few questions, where you’ll also hear
from \[senior administration official\] and the \[senior administration
official\].   
  
So, with that, I will turn it over to you, Kemba.   
  
MS. WALDEN:  Thank you, \[Moderator\].  And good evening.  Thank you all
for being here.  So, tomorrow, President Biden will release the
administration’s National Cybersecurity Strategy.  This strategy sets
forth a bold new vision for the future of cyberspace in the wider
digital ecosystem.   
  
I want to thank the President for recognizing the critical importance of
cybersecurity issues for the American people and for making
cybersecurity a policy priority from day one of this administration.   
  
The strategy builds on two years of unprecedented attention that the
President has placed on cybersecurity issues, starting with the May 2021
executive order.   
  
I also wanted to thank Congress for their continued willingness to work
with the administration on cybersecurity issues.  We’re fortunate to
benefit from a long history of bipartisan cooperation on
cybersecurity.   
  
And I want to thank the many departments and agencies that contributed
their time and expertise to the development of this strategy and who
will now be at the forefront of its implementation.   
  
The President’s strategy fundamentally reimagines America’s social —
cyber social contract.  It will rebalance the responsibility for
managing cyber risk onto those who are most able to bear it.  Today,
across the public and private sectors, we tend to devolve responsibility
for cyber risk downwards.  We ask individuals, small businesses, and
local governments to shoulder a significant burden for defending us
all.  This isn’t just unfair, it’s ineffective.   
  
The biggest, most capable, and best positioned actors in our digital
ecosystem can and should shoulder a greater share of the burden for
managing cyber risk and keeping us all safe.  This strategy asks more of
industry, but also commits more from the federal government.   
  
With respect to industry, we will identify gaps and reduce burdens in
existing authorities where targeted and narrow regulations are necessary
to improve public safety and cybersecurity.   
  
But for government, we have a duty to the American people to also double
down on tools that only government can wield, including the law
enforcement and military authorities to disrupt malicious cyberactivity
and pursue their perpetrators.   
  
And we will continue to invest in information sharing, operational
collaboration, and other forms of partnership with the private
sector.   
  
Every American should be able to benefit from cyberspace, but every
American should not have the same responsibility to keep it secure.   
  
Simply shifting the burden for security, though, won’t solve all of our
problems if we don’t start thinking in terms of long-term solutions. 
There are very real near-term risks, legal requirements, and commercial
incentives that cause us to prioritize short-term approaches over
long-term solutions.   
  
But it’s not enough just to manage the threats of today.  We need to
invest in a tomorrow that is more inherently defensible and
resilient.   
  
To do that, we need to make it so that when public- and private-sector
entities face tradeoffs between easy but temporary fixes and durable and
long-term solutions, they are incentivized to consistently choose the
latter.   
  
This strategy calls for investments in our cyber workforce, our
infrastructure, and the digital ecosystems underlining the technologies
to improve our national resilience and economic competitiveness. 
Rebalancing the responsibility to defend cyberspace and incentivizing
investments in a resilient future are the fundamental shifts that guide
the President’s strategy.   
  
I want to turn now to my colleague, Anne Neuberger, who can provide her
view on the strategy and some of its most important policy
objectives.   
  
Thanks so much for your time.   
  
MS. NEUBERGER:  Thank you, Kemba.  Good afternoon, all.  It is really
great to be here with you today.   
  
I want to first kick off by thanking the ODNC team and, as Kemba did,
the many departments and agencies who led and participated in building a
strong, comprehensive strategy.   
  
Before I get to the strategy, though, I’d like to simply start off by
simply saying how the strategy is really being released at a pivotal
moment, at a very timely moment.  Looking back at the last 24 months of
the Biden-Harris administration and especially over the last year as we
recently hit the one-year mark of the war in Ukraine, we’ve seen the
cyber threat be at the forefront of geopolitical crises.   
  
And as we know, the threat is not only Russia.  We’ve seen destructive
cyber and ransomware attacks executed by cybercriminals and other
countries across the globe.   
  
For example, last fall, we saw Iranian intelligence services attack
Albania’s government networks, disrupting government services to the
country’s citizens.  And almost immediately, we, at the ready, mobilized
ourselves and our European partners to assist in Albania’s response to
the attack and to hold Iran accountable by designating sanctions on
individuals responsible.   
  
Here at home, we’re no stranger to these sort of threats, which is
important, because the Biden administration’s fundamental commitment is
that Americans must be able to have confidence that they can rely on
critical services, hospitals, gas pipelines, air/water services even if
they are being targeted by our adversaries.   
  
And that’s why the Biden-Harris administration has worked tirelessly
over the last two years to deliver on that commitment by building a more
resilient cyber infrastructure to protect the services we all rely on
daily, and also to strengthen our international partnerships, because
cyber threats are fundamentally transnational threats.  They cross
borders.   
  
So that’s exactly what the strategy captures and sets out to continue to
do, drawing direction and inspiration from the National Security
Strategy, and establishing an affirmative vision for a secure cyberspace
that creates opportunities to achieve our collective aspirations.   
  
It endeavors to make a stronger and more resilient cyber infrastructure
for the American people and our allies and partners around the world.   
  
So, I’ll take a moment to walk through the five core pillars that the
strategy is built on.   
  
First, the strategy will defend critical infrastructure by expanding
minimum cybersecurity requirements for critical sectors, enabling
public-private collaboration, and ensuring that our systems are kept to
the level needed to meet the threat.  It’s critical, as I said, that the
American people have confidence in the availability and resiliency of
our critical infrastructure and the essential services it provides.   
  
Second, it will disrupt and dismantle threat actors by using all
instruments of national power to make malicious cyber actors — to make
it harder for them to threaten the national security or public safety of
the United States.   
  
Third, it will shape market forces to drive security and resilience by
ensuring we place responsibilities on those who can address the risks,
and we work to shift the consequences of poor cybersecurity away from
the most vulnerable.  We need to make our digital ecosystem more
trustworthy.   
  
Fourth, invest in a resilient future through strategic investments that
the Biden administration has made over the first two years and continued
investments and coordinated, collaborative action.  We’ll continue to
lead the world in developing secure and resilient next-generation
technologies and infrastructure.   
  
And finally, we’ll continue to forge international partnerships to
pursue shared goals by promoting a cyberspace where responsible state
behavior is expected and rewarded, and irresponsible behavior is
isolating and costly, as in the Iran example I noted earlier.   
  
There are three elements in particular I’d like to highlight.   
  
First, on the critical infrastructure side.  A lot of the work we’ve
done on critical infrastructure is already underway.  This strategy
codifies the first two years of putting in place minimum cybersecurity
pipe- — requirements for pipelines, for railways, and, shortly, for
additional sectors we’ll be announcing.   
  
We recognize that we need to move from just a public-private
partnership, information-sharing approach to implement minimum
mandates.  Information sharing and public-private partnerships are
inadequate for the threats we face when we look at critical
infrastructure.   
  
As I said, we’ve made major progress in executing this as a core Biden
administration commitment in the first two years, and we’ll continue to
carry it forward with the executive branch authorities we have in place
and work with Congress to develop those limited additional authorities
we may still need.   
  
Second, as we continue our focus on disrupting and dismantling threat
actors, we’re elevating our work on ransomware, declaring ransomware a
threat to national security rather than just a criminal challenge.   
  
And again, this is something we’ve already begun to tackle through
domestic work targeting the most virulent ransomware actors — I’d call
out the FBI’s work against Hive as an example — and with 36 partners and
the European Union in the international counter ransomware initiative,
which just had its first anniversary in October.   
  
Finally, it redoubles our commitment to international partnerships and
implementation of norms.  Threats in cyberspace are often borderless. 
Cyber defense matters in the modern geopolitical climate.  And we must
work with our close allies and partners to deliver the security we all
need and our citizens deserve.   
  
So, with that, thank you for your time.  And we’ll turn it over for
questions, as \[Moderator\] noted, to \[senior administration official\]
and \[senior administration official\].  Thank you for your
questions.   
  
MODERATOR:  Thanks, Anne.  And thanks, Kemba.  And just to make sure I
got everyone’s title right there at the top for our on-the-record
speakers, it was the acting National Cyber Director, Kemba Walden, and
the Deputy National Security Advisor for Cyber and Emerging
Technologies, Anne Neuberger.   
  
So, if you want to use the “hand raising” feature, we’ll give it a quick
minute to let people raise their hands and then we’ll get started with a
Q&A.   
  
We’ll get started.  Our first question will go to Maggie Miller from
Politico.  You should be able to unmute yourself.   
  
Q    Yep.  Hi.  Thanks so much for hosting this call.  I wanted to ask a
little bit more about some of these, you know, regulations that are
going in place.  I know Anne mentioned there’s going to be new sectors
that are going to be announced soon.  Can you talk more about what those
sectors will be and what the feedback from industry has been about
having this more mandatory approach to cybersecurity requirements that
has, as you mentioned, already been ongoing?  Thanks so much.   
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:   Hi, Maggie.  \[Senior administration
official\] here.  Thanks for the question.   
  
So, we’ve taken up a sector-by-sector approach in looking at each
critical infrastructure sector and thinking about what are the ways that
we can improve the cybersecurity posture within that sector.  There are
a number of sectors that are already regulated — for instance,
electricity grid, you know, nuclear facilities, there are others — where
the ability to require cybersecurity practices as part of an overall
security program and safety program is already in place.   
  
And so, we just want to make sure that those regulatory regimes take
advantage of the best thought that exists across the cybersecurity
industry and what we’re learning from examining cyber incidents that
have occurred in recent years.   
  
But there are sectors where the authorities aren’t as clear or we have
not fully exercised the authorities that exist.  One example of where
we’re beginning to take the first steps is EPA for the water sector. 
They have made a public notice, and I’m not exactly sure where it
stands, but I think it’s coming out soon.  It’s an interpretation of an
existing rule for sanitary surveys in which water facility owners and
operators will have to incorporate some cybersecurity elements in their
regularized sanitary survey program, where they’re looking at drinking
water safety issues and the equipment and such.   
  
So, it’s not a — it’s not a new authority.  It’s an interpretation and
adding additional elements into an existing authority.  So that that
will begin to come into place here in the very near term but will take
time to fully see that ripple through the industry because these are on
a couple-of-year cycles to be when the sanitary surveys get done on a
periodic basis.   
  
There are other sectors where we’re looking at similar things and
finding ways to close gaps.  There are a number of sectors where it’s
purely voluntary and there’s actually not a regulatory regime around
it.  And so, those are things that we’re looking at.  And also turning
to CISA, through those cross-sector cyber performance goals that they’ve
put out, to find ways to encourage the incorporation of cybersecurity
best practices.  These are things that everybody knows about —
multi-factor authentication, network segmentation, things like that,
encryption.   
  
And so, the bar we’re setting is not a high bar. We really are just
hoping that owners and operators do the basics.  And over time, we’re
going to be able to bring and raise all ships.   
  
MODERATOR:  Great.  We’ll go to our next question.  Sean from CNN.  You
should be able to unmute yourself.   
  
Q    Hi, can you hear me?  
  
MODERATOR:  Yes, we can hear you.   
  
Q    Great.  Thanks for the call.  Very interesting strategy.  I wanted
to ask, kind of, a question that comes up in a lot of these calls, but,
you know, you have to ask it, is: in terms of the international
dimension, how the administration is going to address the bear in the
room and try to get — if try at all — to get Russia to cooperate on
norms, on pursuing ransomware actors, et cetera.   
  
We’re all well aware of the tools that the administration can use to
rally allies and use it and coordinate with everyone else except
Russia.  But the government will agree that cooperating with Russia
would certainly help in this space.   
  
So, has that — has that ship sailed with the war in Ukraine and given
that the war has no end in sight?  Has the administration given up on
engaging Moscow on cybercriminal issues and other cyber issues?  Or are
we going to see some sort of effort in the future?  Thank you.   
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  I think what we’re seeing is an
approach that draws directly from the National Security Strategy into
the National Cyber Strategy, which is to focus on our regional partners
around the globe to build the coalitions that can create pressure on
Russia and other malicious actors to change their behavior.  I think
we’ve seen some success in sustaining that coalition over the last
year.   
  
And so, we’re hopeful that Russia understands the consequences of
malicious activity in cyberspace and will continue to be restrained.   
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  So, I’ll amplify a little bit.  You hit
the nail on the head, Sean, that this is a significant problem, which is
why Anne Neuberger had mentioned and the strategy calls out essentially
a new policy that ransomware constitutes a national security threat.   
  
Traditionally, cybercrime issues would be handled within the criminal
justice system, and responsible countries would investigate crime,
collect evidence on behalf of each other, share information, cooperate,
have mutual legal assistance, request things fulfilled, and
extradition.  And these types of problems would be addressed and
suppressed through normative avenues.   
  
We do have a problem where Russia is serving as a de facto safe haven
for cybercrime, and ransomware is a predominant issue that we’re dealing
with today, which is why the strategy also calls out — since the
criminal justice system isn’t going to be able to, on its own, address
this problem, we do need to look at other elements of national power to
be going after the threat.   
  
And so, we won’t be able to — well, some of the things that we can talk
about are, you know, Treasury sanctions, and State Department has done
Reward for Justice offerings to try to shine a light on these issues,
make it more difficult for the cybercrime actors to operate.  And then,
as well, you’ve seen successes by the FBI and the Secret Service in
apprehending actors who go on vacation somewhere, and they find
themselves, you know, arrested on behalf of a U.S. extradition
request.   
  
And so, ultimately, I think \[senior administration official\] hit the
nail on the head, which is that the — we want to shrink the surface of
the Earth that people can conduct malicious cyber activity with
impunity, and put pressure on them and make their lives a little bit
less pleasurable.   
  
And if a criminal is restricted to living in Russia and can’t leave the
borders, then perhaps that might create a bit of a deterrent effect. 

And then, we want to rally likeminded countries to be able to take a
similar approach and to be using the tools that they have, and to make
sure that we’re all focused on the problem and that we’re putting
pressure across all areas, including diplomatic, on countries that do
not follow, you know, agreed-upon norms. 

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  We’ll go next to Kevin with NBC.  You should be
able to unmute yourself.

Q    Hi.  Yeah, thanks, y’all, for doing the call.  I wanted to ask —
I’m looking through this and I’m seeing echoes of a lot of this stuff
this administration has been doing already, in terms of executive
orders, the international cooperation stuff. 

To what degree should we view this as — the new strategy as an extension
and a coalescence of what this administration has been doing versus a —
kind of a genuine — like a pivot, new vision?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  So, I think the first thing to begin
with is that this strategy, we acknowledge in it, is not only continuing
the work from the start of the administration, when we came in and were
addressing the crisis of SolarWinds and handling the reoccurring major
ransomware incidents in that first year, but it’s also continuing many
of the initiatives and many of the efforts that date back to the Obama
administration, and builds on many of the efforts in the Trump
administration. 

And so, the first thing the strategy acknowledges is that we’re building
on that path while we move in a new direction.  And so, the big shift
here, obviously, compared to previous strategies, is the focus on saying
that we do need to set targeted requirements for critical infrastructure
where those don’t exist today.  That’s a major departure from the past. 

The other shift is to look at how we think about liability for software
manufacturers, something that has not been in previous strategies.

And I think the other thing I would note is the major shift that Anne
has focused on, on how we’re really bringing all instruments of national
power against cybercrime in the form of ransomware. 

And so, the strategy is meant to pull together all of these threads and
then provide us a direction forward. 

MODERATOR:  Great, thank you.  We’ll now go to Elias with CyberScoop.

Q    Hey, thanks so much for doing this call.  So, a couple questions. 
Two on software liability and another on offensive operations.

On software liability, can you elaborate a bit on where in the software
ecosystem you want to place liability?  Figuring out where to place
liability is just, kind of, a tough technical problem.  And I’m
wondering if maybe you guys can elaborate a little bit just on how you
think about it. 

And then, to follow up on that, you’re going to need Congress to move
legislation on software liability reform.  Can you talk through, a
little bit, the politics of doing that, what you think the prospects are
of moving that through Congress?

And then, in terms of a third question, if I can squeeze it in here at
the end, can you elaborate a little bit on what you mean by bringing all
forms of national power to bear on this problem and the extent to which
this strategy is embracing greater use of offensive operations in
cyberspace?  Thanks. 

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  So, on the liability question, the
first thing that we’re trying to do here is make sure that we’re placing
liability where it will do the most good.  So, we don’t want to place
liability, say, on the developers of open-source software who don’t have
any resources, whose software is used by commercial providers to build
their products. 

If we placed liability there, we don’t get the changes that we want in
the ecosystem.  So, the first principle we’ve had is to place liability
where it will do the most good.  And in some people’s articulations,
that’s on the final goods-assembler.  Right?  The company that is
building and selling the software, they need to be liable for what they
put in it and work to reduce vulnerabilities and use best practices. 

We can’t have them devolving that responsibility down to a two-person,
open-source project that hasn’t received any funding in the last five
years.  That’s not going to get us the outcome that we want. 

We see shifting liability as a long-term process.  When we think about
this strategy, we’re looking out a decade.  And so, our anticipation is
that we will need to begin this process working with industry to really
establish what better software development practices look like, work to
implement those, work to articulate those, and then work with industry
and Congress to establish what some kind of liability shield for the
adoption of those practices would look like. 

But we don’t anticipate that this is something where we’re going to see
a new law on the books within the next year. 

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Quickly, maybe a little bit of a
departure, but on the same theme of secure-by-design, recall that Anne
Neuberger hosted, in October, an IoT security labeling event where we
were beginning to engage with stakeholders and get feedback on what a
government labeling program would look like to make sure that IoT
products, their security posture is transparent to the customers so they
can make informed choices.

That will help to encourage an ecosystem of secure-by-design products
where, according to Carnegie Mellon’s research, there is a preference
and people are willing to pay a premium for products that protect their
security and their privacy. 

So, in this theme, we’re looking to make sure that software design is
using best practices and that it is a — security is in mind in the
development of it, and that IoT products and other things like that are
also in a better posture so that the attack surface is much reduced over
time. 

On the topic, Elias, you were asking about — implied, you know,
offensive cyber or other tools of the government that can be applied
against problems like ransomware in hard to reach places — in general,
we are looking at the ransomware problem as a national security threat
and, therefore, we need to be able to use additional tools such as, for
instance, intelligence tools to make sure that we understand the threat
and understand, you know, how it is that we can protect ourselves, how
we can tip victims or intended victims before they’re attacked through
whatever authorities are needed to do that. 

I will not speak to what all activities that we may contemplate or be
undertaking.  But we are certainly in a more forward-leaning position to
make sure that we’re protecting the American people from these threats
and that we apply the tools that are necessary to address it. 

And everything from diplomacy to law enforcement to intelligence to
economic and financial, these are all tools — and military tools, as
necessary — these are options that the President has.  And we’re — we’re
certainly open to using all of them in a smart way to go after the
threat. 

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  I think we have time for one more question, so
we’ll go to Tim Starks from the Washington Post. 

Q    Hi there.  Thanks.  Mine is a pretty easy, hopefully, logistical
question.  Is the process by which this needs to be approved by the
President complete?  And what is that process?  Does he sign it?  Does
he just say, “I approve this”?

And then, the implementation strategy — sorry, the implementation plan. 
How far along is that?  When might we expect to see it?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  So, that’s a great question.  There
certainly are details about how paperwork moves through this building. 
And what we can say is that this strategy will be announced tomorrow.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  And, Tim, can you repeat your question
on implementation, please?

Q    Yes, happily.  How far along is the implementation plan?  And when
might we expect to see it?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  I can answer.  So, the implementation
plan has been developed in parallel with the strategy.  And so, the
effort is ongoing to take that.  We’ve already, in fact, begun to
implement aspects of the strategy over the last few months.  And so, we
anticipate that we will have a public snapshot of the strategy of the
implementation plan out in the coming months.

MODERATOR:  Cool.  Thank you, everyone.  As a reminder, our first two
speakers were on record, and then the Q&A portion was on background,
attributable to “senior administration officials.”  The contents of this
call and all the supplemental paperwork you got in email earlier are all
embargoed until 5:00 a.m. Eastern tomorrow, Thursday, March 2nd.

If you have any other questions, feel free to follow up with us.  Have a
great night.

5:32 P.M. EST
