---
date: '2023-03-28'
published_time: 2023-03-28 15:36:03-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2023/03/28/press-gaggle-by-principal-deputy-press-secretary-olivia-dalton-en-route-durham-nc/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Gaggle by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Olivia Dalton En Route Durham,\_\
  NC"
---
 
Aboard Air Force One  
En Route Durham, North Carolina

12:37 P.M. EDT

MS. DALTON: Well, good afternoon. As you’re all well aware, we’re on our
way to Durham, North Carolina, where President Biden will visit
Wolfspeed, a manufacturer of semiconductors that recently announced a $5
billion investment to expand their North Carolina operations and create
1,800 good-paying jobs.

This visit kicks off the administration’s three-week Investing in
America tour, where President Biden, Vice President Harris, First Lady
Jill Biden, Second Gentleman Douglas Emhoff, White House officials, and
members of the President’s Cabinet will fan out to over 20 states to
highlight how the President’s economic agenda is unleashing a
manufacturing boom, strengthening U.S. supply chains, creating
good-paying jobs, and expanding economic opportunity across America.

During the visit, President Biden will announce that over $435 billion
in private-sector manufacturing commitments have been made since he took
office. And on this visit, the President will also highlight what’s at
stake if MAGA Republicans in Congress get their way and repeal the
Inflation Reduction Act, slash funding for manufacturing, research, and
innovation to give tax breaks and breaks to the super-wealthy.

North Carolina, in addition to Arizona, Georgia, Ohio, and New York, is
among the states that stand to lose the most private-sector investment
under these reckless proposals.  
Aamer, you want to kick us off?

Q Just a couple of scheduling questions. Is there anything in line for
either Mississippi, to go visit the devastation and the people there,
and also the situation in Nashville?

MS. DALTON: So, one at a time. So, with respect to Mississippi, I don’t
have anything — any travel to preview at the moment. I will just — just
to give you the latest:

As you know, on Saturday, the President spoke to Governor Lee, both
senators from Mississippi, as well as Congressman Bennie Thompson. On
Sunday, FEMA Administrator Deanne Criswell and DHS Secretary Alejandro
Mayorkas traveled down to the region to assess the damage to see where,
you know, the pre- — the federal response was needed most quickly.

And we’ve continued to stay in touch with state and local officials on
the ground to support that response. We’ll keep you posted if there’s
any travel to be aware of there.

And with respect to Tennessee, I have a couple of updates.

So as you all know, yesterday, the President spoke to both the governor,
Bill Lee of Tennessee, as well as the ma — Mayor Cooper of Nashville.
Just a short time ago, he also spoke to Senator Hagerty, as well as the
Nashville police chief.

I have no travel to preview at the moment there. But I would just — you
know, I know the President spoke once again to this terrible tragedy
just a few moments ago. But our hearts absolutely go out and break for
the families who are mourning the loss of their loved ones today in
Nashville. Just absolutely heartbreaking the loss that they experienced
once again yesterday.

Q Olivia, saw Karine’s statement, of course, in response to Speaker
McCarthy. But the sort of unanswered question is the Speaker asked for
talks with the President. And will the White House hold talks between
the President and Speaker McCarthy until — is it conditioned on them
producing their budget, or are you willing to have those talks in
absence of a Republican budget?

MS. DALTON: Well, I guess — you know, we’ve seen the letter, but where’s
the budget? The President released his budget three weeks ago. He
released a budget that reduces the deficit by $3 trillion over the next
10 years, invests in America, reduces costs for hardworking American
families. And so far, all we’ve seen from Speaker McCarthy and MAGA
Republicans in Congress are proposals that would blow up the deficit,
and sell out hardworking Americans to the wealthy and special interests,
and do nothing to address the deficit.

So, you know, I think — you know, the President has been asking for
weeks to see what the Republican budget looks like. And all we’ve seen
are these proposals from the House Freedom Caucus that would do nothing
to address the deficit and would, like I said, you know, sell out
hardworking families.

Q Can I just re-ask the question, which is: Is the condition for the
President to meet with Speaker McCarthy that they produce the budget? Or
— because it seems like you guys are just talking past each other at
this point.

MS. DALTON: Look, the President has laid out his budget, and he thinks
that the Republicans should lay out their budget.

And then, separately, you know, I know the Speaker raised this issue of
the debt limit this morning. And I would just say once again that — you
know, and I know that you saw the statement from Karine just a short
time ago — but this is — this is a constitutional obligation that
Congress has to address the debt ceiling. It is their constitutional
obligation to address the debt ceiling, as they did 3 times during the
previous administration and 78 times since 1960. And we believe that
that, you know, has to move forward, that they can’t hold the full faith
and credit of the United States hostage. There’s just too much at stake.

And we know, from independent experts and economists, that would cost
millions of jobs and throw our economy into chaos. And so, they have an
obligation to act.

And separately, when they put forward a budget proposal, let’s take a
look at that, and we’ll have a conversation.

Q So, not to beat a dead horse, but if you’re not willing to condition
the meeting on them producing their budget, what’s the next step? How
does this move forward?

Because, clearly, I know that you would prefer them to produce their
budget. Speaker McCarthy has said that he wants to negotiate on these
points. So how do you — how do you break through this impasse?

MS. DALTON: Well, once again, I mean, the President has put forward his
budget, and all he’s asking in return is to see what the House
Republicans will put forward. I think that’s pretty reasonable.

So, I’ll move on.

Q Olivia, does the — does the banking crisis now raise the stakes in the
debt limit to a certain extent? I mean, the markets — you know, markets
are already very volatile. There’s a lot of concern about financial
stability that is still there despite all the emergency measures that
have been taken. Does — you know, is the President or is the White House
communicating with people in Congress about the — the — you know, the —
that — does that change the equation as far as the debt limit
discussion?

MS. DALTON: Certainly it, you know, makes the stakes all the greater. I
mean, the — you know, certainly given recent events, we want to see the
debt limit addressed quickly, and we want to see, you know, assurances
that House Republicans aren’t going to hold the full faith and credit of
the United States hostage.

This has to be addressed, like it has been so many times before. And as
we’ve recently seen, given recent events, it’s all the more urgent.

Q On the banking situation, regulators — there’s a hearing going on
right now. We’re, you know, getting a lot of questions about what the
next step will be. Can you tell us a timeline for proposing some
comprehensive reforms to restore Dodd-Frank? And, you know, the
President has already made some suggestions. Like, when will we see
those proposals? How comprehensive will they be?

MS. DALTON: Right. So, as you alluded to, the President has already
called on Congress to make it easier for regulators to claw back
compensation, impose civil penalties, and ban executives from working in
the banking industry.

And as the President said, he’ll also call on Congress and bank
regulators to strengthen rules for larger banks so this doesn’t happen
again.

The previous administration rolled back tough requirements put in place
under the Obama-Biden administration that strengthened the financial
system. And this administration is actively looking into what
regulations or laws should be strengthened to prevent this from
happening again.

Beyond that, I don’t have a specific timeline for you.

Q Just — I’m sorry — one more quick one. Given the impasses in Congress,
do you see any movement forward?

You know, we saw bipartisan legislation introduced by Rick Scott and
Elizabeth Warren — odd bedfellows. You know, not — not people you would
normally think of as working together. The White House has not yet taken
a position, you know, on that legislation. Does that offer you a moment
of bipartisan, you know —

MS. DALTON: I don’t have any updates on that particular legislation to
share.

Q Olivia, (inaudible) international. On Israel, does the President have
any plans to invite Bibi Netanyahu to the White House? Is there anything
you can tell us on that front?

MS. DALTON: Yeah, just — as Ambassador Nides said, there’s no plan for
Prime Minister Netanyahu to visit Washington.

Israeli leaders have a long history, tradition of visiting Washington,
and Prime Minister Netanyahu will likely take a visit at some point. But
there’s nothing currently planned.

Q Does the White House believe that Netanyahu will now move forward with
the judicial overhaul? Or are you guys seeing this current pause as a
signal that he’s backing down from it?

MS. DALTON: Well, look, yesterday, we welcomed the decision to delay the
implementation of the judicial reform plan. We thought that gives
important space and time for compromise and dialogue. And as we’ve said
all along, we believe that’s incredibly important.

Q One last one on Northern Ireland. With the UK raising the threat level
to severe, is that going to impact President Biden’s travel to the
region next month?

MS. DALTON: Well, look, we’re still in the process of hammering out
details, so I don’t have additional details on potential engagements to
share, though I do know that the President has obviously stated he’s
looking forward to visiting at some point in the future.

Also, I’ll just say: No, it does not have any potential implications for
future travel. I think, as some of you may be aware, according to the UK
authorities, this announcement returned Northern Ireland to the threat
levels that they have been at for the last 12 years, reversing a
downgrade that occurred just last year.

Q Can I ask a follow-up to the banking question that Andrea asked? Last
week, Karine had said in the next few days there would be additional
announcements, specifically on the financial regulatory front. That was
last week.

And I guess — I mean, I just wanted to follow up on the timeline,
because I’ve been hearing from the White House it’ll be “a few days, a
few days, a few days” — frankly, ever since SVB happened.

And so, do you have any guidance on — it sounds like you guys are
working on something, but what’s — she kind of previewed the next few
days last week.

MS. DALTON: Well, I just outlined some of the steps the President has
already called for. But beyond that, I don’t have anything to share at
this moment.

Q Is it — is it accurate to assume that you guys are still planning to
push for something specifically on the regulatory front? That was on the
accountability front.

MS. DALTON: As I just said, we’re still looking at that. And I don’t
have anything to — additional to share at this moment.

Q More broadly, on guns, this is yet another attack in a school. Six
people shot dead. What is it — without getting into kind of partisan
party politics, what is it about America that this can happen and we
don’t see any meaningful momentum for gun control?

MS. DALTON: Well, look, I think — you use the word again and again — I
think this is yet another heartbreaking instance. I mean, how many times
do we have to mourn school — schoolchildren? I mean, there have been
more than a dozen attacks in schools alone this year, many more mass
shootings, and countless other shootings that don’t even make the
headlines.

And, you know, what you’ve seen from this President is a commitment to
act; historic action to — you know, the most significant bipartisan
safety — gun safety legislation in 30 years; nearly two dozen executive
actions, including an executive order he rolled out not two weeks ago
that brought us closer to universal background checks than we’ve ever
been before; expanded red-flag laws; urged the FTC to publicly report on
marketing assault weapons to minors.

This President has been extremely forward-leaning and aggressive in
trying to tackle this issue of gun safety. And I think you just heard
from him moments ago the sort of sentiment that there is a limit to his
executive power and there’s a need for Congress to do more in this
moment.

He said it in the State of the Union: Do something. He’s saying it again
today.

And, you know, it just — I think a lot of us, even here, you know,
internalize these moments as parents. It’s really hard to put yourself
in the shoes of the parents of those three nine-year-olds who aren’t
going to come home.

And, you know, I — I appreciate that we have the opportunity to have
this conversation today and put the spotlight on this issue and where it
belongs.

But I really do — you — you asked me to stay away from partisan politics
here, but it’s impossible for me to do that because the reality is we
need Republicans in Congress to get on board with an assault weapons
ban, to get on board with universal background checks, to get on board
with requiring safe storage.

These are not — these are commonsense policies with broad bipartisan
support. They wor- — these are policies that work. And so, it’s not
rocket science here. If we can get Republicans to come to the table, we
can do something about this.

Q But do you have any real expectation that Congress is going to act
this time?

MS. DALTON: Well, you know, I think the President will do everything in
his power to — to continue to urge them to act. And, you know, you heard
Karine say the other day he is relentlessly optimistic. You know, all we
can do is continue to fight.

Q Governor Ron DeSantis is — says he’s going to be traveling to Israel
at the end of April, right before the Knesset reopens its legislative
session and reopens this debate over judicial reform. Is there a concern
at all that this issue, Israeli democracy, will become a partisan matter
here in the United States? And what are you doing to ensure that your
response remains bipartisan?

MS. DALTON: I — I can — I’m not sure that — that, you know — I think you
saw the President spoke to Prime Minister Netanyahu just last week. They
have — they have been in touch many times. We are in regular touch with
the Israeli government. They know our strong views about the importance
of democracy to the U.S.-Israeli partnership. They know where we stand
on — on this issue. And I think that’s — that’s where I’m going to leave
it. I don’t think I have any comment on speculating on whether the
governor of Florida is traveling to Israel and what that might mean.

Q Olivia, on this — on this barnstorm tour that’s going on now — that’s
kicking off today, I mean, are you hoping that that kind of — you know,
what’s your overall goal for this trip, this three-week trip, where
Cabinet officials are going to be going — it’s to — you know, are you
looking at the politics involved? The President’s approval ratings have
been relatively low — very low, actually — despite, you know, the
funding that you talk about. Like, where’s the disconnect there?

MS. DALTON: We’re embarking on a three-week tour to highlight how
transformational this President’s economic agenda has been for
hardworking Americans across the country. He’s going to announce the
fact that pri- — the private sector has invested $435 billion in the
United States of America in the last two years since he’s been President
and the transformational that — impact that’s having on communities,
like the one we’re visiting today in Durham, and all across the country.

And so, you know, as we start to see the implementation of some of this
transformational legislation over the last couple of years, including
the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, CHIPS and Science Act — the way that
that is bringing good-paying jobs back to — and entire supply chains,
manufacturing back to the United States once again.

The President is going to take that message out to the — out to the
people of the United States and show how his economic agenda is
delivering for them. That’s part of what his job is.

Q Is he going to do interviews and press conferences?

MS. DALTON: I’m really sorry. We have to leave it there. I’m due up
front. I’m so sorry.

Q Is there a chance we can get a press conference with him?

MS. DALTON: I can’t commit to that right now. But I’ve — but I’m happy
to follow up.

Q Great.

12:53 P.M. EDT
