---
category: statements-releases
date: '2022-02-09'
modified_time: 2022-02-09 18:20:11-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/02/09/remarks-by-president-biden-at-a-roundtable-with-ceos-of-electric-utilities-to-discuss-his-build-back-better-agenda/
published_time: 2022-02-09 18:20:10-05:00
title: Remarks by President Biden at a Roundtable with CEOs of Electric Utilities
  to Discuss His Build Back Better Agenda
---
 
State Dining Room

2:40 P.M. EST

     THE PRESIDENT:  Well, let me begin by thanking all these utility
executives for coming in today.  I think this is the beginning of a —
God willing, a new era in the generation of electricity and,
fundamentally, clean up the environment.  And I can’t tell you how much
I appreciate you being here.  I really mean it. 

And the — I’m just going to make a few brief comments and then ask a
couple questions.  And, unfortunately, I have a — I have to go, not
immediately but before we finish.  And I want to apologize ahead of
time. 

But thank you, thank you, thank you for being here. 

I’m afraid — as I said, I won’t be able to stay, but I wanted to come by
to thank the utility sector CEOs for being here, you know, and hear from
you at the top.

You know, you have some of the most important jobs in America right now:
keeping electricity systems running and running reliably. 

I’ve spent too much time this last year flying in helicopters over areas
of scorched earth that — because utilities were down, because of what’s
going — I mean, it really is amazing.  More — more territory is burned
to the ground in the West Coast than the entire state of New Jersey in
terms of square miles.  It’s just stunning.  Absolutely stunning.

And I want to thank you for what you’re doing to help get the word out
about clean energy.  And the component — one of the significant — the
most significant component of my Build Back Better plan — and thank you
for coming to speak on its behalf — it’s about building a clean energy
future. 

And — and we’re — we’re seeing incredible enthusiasm and support for the
effort not just from you all, but around the country.  I mean, there’s a
real — people are — I guess when things got really bad, it made people
realize, “My Lord, this is real.  This is real, this climate change.” 

And it’s about building that future — that clean energy future.  And —
and how many major announcements have we seen recently?  Ford and GM,
for example, building out their electric vehicle production, a total — a
total, I think, investment of — I think it sold almost $18 billion — 11
and 7. 

And Union Pacific Railroad: I was recently out in — in Pennsylvania, in
Pittsburgh, but — to see other parts of what was going on.  But they —
Union Electric — excuse me, the Union Pacific Railroad is buying
electric locomotives that are being built in Erie, Pennsylvania. 

And just yesterday, Tritium announced a new facility in Tennessee that
is going to build the electric chargers.  They brought in someone to
show us what they’re like. 

And, you know, we’re — this legislation has already been passed.  That’s
500,000 electric chargers on our highways.  And it’s going to change the
dynamic of how — not only how we travel, but the economy along the way
as well, because —

Any rate, companies are investing in clean energy futures.  And the
world is betting on American workers to build it and the American people
to buy it. 

And then, we’re investing in clean energy — as a stronger, more
resilient grid; 100 percent clean electricity by 2035.  And that’s a
major piece of the puzzle and one of the commitments that I made — we
would try to do.

Like there rest of my Build Back Better plan, the clean energy companies
of this plan are about lowering prices.  That’s what this is all about. 
It’s about reducing family energy bills while protecting the grid from
extreme weather and making power more reliable. 

And it’s also about jobs.  No one knows it better than all of you around
this table: The investment is going to support the creation of hundreds
of thousands of good-paying jobs all across the country and how it flows
from this — what you’re all about to do, or God willing. 

And it’s going to make us more economically competitive while reducing
pollution and improving public health, and helping us meet the moment on
climate change — the most important piece of it, in my view.

These investments are about today, and they’re also about the future. 
And we can do it without increasing the deficit or raising taxes on
anyone making less than $400,000 a year.  And 17 Nobel laureates
spontaneously — in economics — spontaneously wrote to me, telling me
that they believed that this would ease long-term inflation.

And so, the CEOs know exactly why a clean energy future matters.  It’s
an incredible opportunity for our country.  And — and they know how
urgent it is to get this done.  And there have been — you know, they’ve
been key partners throughout this entire process. 

And so, I’m grateful for their input, and I look forward to getting a
full report from my team on the ideas discussed today.

But with your permission, I’d like to stick around a little bit and
maybe ask a few questions.  And again, I can’t tell you how —

Back up.  Four years ago, when I was sitting talking about this issue,
the question was, “No — no one is — you guys aren’t going to do this. 
It’s not going to happen.”  No, I mean, for real.  That was the nature
of the discussion. 

But you’re here saying you support this and you’re going to try to move
if we can get this Build Back Better piece done.  And so, I’d like to
start off with you, Pat, if I may — excuse me — mind me calling you
Pat.  I apolog- — you can call me Joe.  (Laughter.)

You’re — PNM operates in New Mexico and Texas and powering 800,000 homes
and businesses.

How is this Build Back Better initiative is going to deliver more
reliable and affordable power and reduce costs for — if you — if we have
it available to you to be able to get the tax benefits?

MS. VINCENT-COLLAWN:  Well, Mr. President, thank you for the opportunity
to speak.  And thank you for your support of our clean energy future.

We started our clean energy journey some time ago in New Mexico, working
with our governor, the environmental community, the business community,
and our Indigenous communities, all who support clean energy. 

It’ll — this legislation is going to allow us to be carbon-free sooner,
gives us renewable portfolio standards, allows us to securitize to keep
costs down for customers, and very importantly, Mr. President, it
provides for a just transition.

There is money in there for worker severance and retraining for the coal
miners.  We already take care of our coal plant employees at the
utility.  But it has money for economic development in there to
revitalize the communities.  So, working with economic development,
Indian Affairs, and Workforce Solutions.  Because when people move into
the clean energy economy, they shouldn’t have to move away from their
Tribal lands.  And we are going to work to revitalize those communities
so that they can participate in the clean energy future where they
currently live. 

These clean energy tax policies are going to be so helpful.  New Mexico,
unfortunately, is the third poorest state.  And the areas that we serve
in Texas are not the affluent areas of Texas. 

As a regulated utility, we pass all of our tax savings directly back to
our customers.  And along with reliability in clean, affordable, it is
really on the top of our priority list.

We have the number-three solar potential in the United States in New
Mexico and the number-three onshore wind potential. 

So, having credits for that and for storage, which is critical to make
sure that those resources can be stored — so we need them when we need
them — and the building of the transmission to export those wind and
solar resources to other states is also critical.  So that transmission
in solar — and storage — and wind is really going to help bring down the
customer cost. 

We’re also looking to integrate more electric vehicles into the grid.  I
tell people: Once you drive an electric vehicle, you don’t want to drive
an internal combustion engine anymore.

THE PRESIDENT:  They’re quiet and quick.  (Laughs.) 

MS. VINCENT-COLLAWN:  Oh, are they quick.  (Laughs.) 

And this will help us make the needed improvements in our grid at a
lower cost. 

And on the corporate tax rate, when we keep that low, we also pass those
savings back to our customers.  And, unfortunately, any increases
conversely get pushed back to customers. 

But, President Biden, your support of clean energy and the clean energy
tax policies will really allow us to accelerate that — making energy
reliable, affordable, and cleaner sooner.

So, thank you so much. 

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, thank you.

One of the things that I spent some time in one of the very — this is
how many years ago now?  I guess three years ago — in a very large solar
site in Nevada.

MS. VINCENT-COLLAWN:Yes.

THE PRESIDENT:  And one of the things we were talking about at the time,
and I met — it created a hell of a lot of jobs, but it will create more
jobs if you can actually transmit that solar energy on a line to a
destination that is one that can use it well. 

They — my team tells me that there is a — a capacity to, by further
investment in machinery on the site, that it is going to be able to,
through high voltage — HVDC tech, move that energy more quickly and lose
less of it on the way.  Is that right?

MS. VINCENT-COLLAWN:Absolutely.

THE PRESIDENT:  And tell me how that — I mean, will — will you be in a
better position to be able to — for your solar sites — be able to afford
that with, in fact, you have the tax credits that are moving?

MS. VINCENT-COLLAWN:  Yeah, the tax credits will make the more
sophisticated transmission infrastructure much less expensive.  And,
again, we pass those savings all along to the consumers.  And a lot of
the solar — and where you cite solar fields — is not near what we call
“load centers,” or big cities, so you need that transmission.  And it is
going to be absolutely critical to building our nation’s clean energy
infrastructure.

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, my wife and I, separately, spent a little bit of
time with those Indigenous communities in — in New Mexico and other
places.  And it really makes a difference — it will make a difference
for them in a big way, I think.

MS. VINCENT-COLLAWN:  Absolutely.  And, you know, especially the Navajo
Nation is embracing a clean energy future.  They’re very thoughtful
about how they move away.  But they are very much looking forward to
developing the solar potential on their lands.  And we will be able to
export that to other parts of the West that desperately need some more
clean energy.

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, as an aside, before I go to you, Nick, I was out
in Colorado looking at the experimental efforts going on up there in the
mountains.  I was stunned.  And I’m — I’m familiar with wind energy,
because we tried very hard early on in the last administration I was in
to promote that.  And we had some blowback because people didn’t want to
be able to see it and the like. 

They showed me a blade of a windmill that’s 100 yards long.  My Lord.  I
mean, I looked at that and thought, “Holy Lord.”  I mean, can’t fatho- —
I think some of the press was with me on that trip.  It was — it was
astounding. 

But you’re at AEP, Nick.  You use a variety of traditional fuels to make
power like coal, natural gas, and nuclear.  It’s good to see you now
expanding into wind and solar. 

Tell me a little bit about the expansion and the renewables — how that’s
going for you.  Is it going to reduce costs to customers?  How — and
how, if at all, does my initiative on Build Back Better, the over $500
billion we’re talking about for the energy side of this — of which, by
the way, I think it’s about $200 billion in tax credits and another $100
billion for resilience.  But talk to me about how —

MR. AKINS:  Sure.

THE PRESIDENT:  — how you’re making your decisions.

MR. AKINS:  Well, first of all, Mr. President, a pleasure to be with you
today to talk about these important issues.  And you’ve actually shed
the light on a lot of the infrastructure needs of this country. 

And, certainly, the grid is one of those areas that — that we find — and
I grew up as a system operator.  Forty years ago, I started as a system
operator running power systems.  So, for me, your focus on resiliency
and reliability of the grid is extremely important. 

The addition of renewables in place today is having a substantial impact
on the ability to save customers money.  Matter of fact, we — this
quarter, we’ll be putting in — operational — the largest wind power
project in North America. 

THE PRESIDENT:  Is that right?

MR. AKINS:  About 1,000 megawatts in Oklahoma.  And it’s going to save
customers about $2.2 billion over the life of the agreement.  So,
certainly, it’s a huge benefit. 

And for us, it’s really an opportunity to bring these kinds of resources
in, lower costs to customers, and be able to move toward that clean
energy future.  So, as we look — as we look at that — we’ve looked at it
across our territories.  And now we have a plan by 2030 to put over
16,000 megawatts of generation like that in place.  So, it’s really an
important opportunity for us. 

We also partner extensively with Lonnie Stephenson, the IBEW, and the
unions.  We’re mapping that transition to those skills of the future. 

And certainly, partners like that and partners in the federal government
can enable this — this industry to move much more quickly than we would
have otherwise, particularly with the tax provisions; ITCs — investment
tax credits; and so forth.  Those have really produced benefits for
consumers, because those costs — those benefits actually flow through to
our consumers and contribute to the economy.  So, it’s a great
opportunity for us to make that transition.

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, I think it’s a heck of an opportunity.  One of the
things — maybe when the press is still here — to talk a little bit about
— you know, I was really excited back in, I guess it was probably two
thousand and — don’t hold me to exact year — probably 2012, ’13, ’14. 
We were talking about major wind initiative off the eastern coast, the
coast of the — on the East Coast.  And they said there was a — you know,
an effort to go off the coast of Delaware and off the coast of New
Jersey.  And I think it was — they were going to — I think it was able
to power — don’t hold me to the number — like 800,000 homes in New
Jersey.  But there was a real blowback when people said, “I don’t want
to see those things.” 

And then, remember, up in Nantucket area and Nantucket Sound and —

Tell me about — when you say you’re going to have this largest,
essentially, wind farm in Oklahoma, what is the reception of the
community with that?

MR. AKINS:  Oh, it’s — it’s been very, very positive, because — not only
do they see the benefits of the clean energy, but also the job
creations.  But the benefits for customers are considerable. 

You know, where we run into some issues is — when there’s large-scale
transmission, which you mentioned to Pat, we really do need to find ways
to scope large transmission to get renewables to the — to the big
cities.  And that’s a — that’s a process that, obviously, your
administration has been working on as well. 

And for us, it’s important to scope those projects, because the savings
associated with renewables will actually pay for the transmission. 

THE PRESIDENT:  Yeah. 

MR. AKINS:  So that’s a — that’s a key area for us to be able to
continue to grow.

THE PRESIDENT:  Are all of you — generic question: Are you getting less
resistance when you start talking about wind and the windmills?  I know
they cause cancer.  (Laughter.)  Bad joke.  I shouldn’t kid about that. 
I shouldn’t have kidded. 

But all kidding aside, I mean, people — I mean, what — what kind of
resistance do you have to —

MR. ANDERSON:  Well, I —

THE PRESIDENT:  — if you — if your using wind?

MR. ANDERSON:  I can — I can speak to the arc in Michigan.  So, we’ve
done a lot of wind in Michigan.  We have a pretty good wind regime
there.  It — it is what Nick said, that if you get in a community that’s
highly mixed — where some benefit and some don’t — you’ll get
resistance.  If you’re in a community that’s more rural — where it
becomes a part of their economy, their jobs, their income — the
reception is quite high. 

We are actually at a transition point in Michigan where solar has now
crossed over and is highly competitive with wind.  So, I think after a
long period of investment in wind, we’re now going to see our
largest-scale investments in solar, and the reception to solar has been
very high.  It’s a great addition to the tax base.  Big construct- —
billions of dollars of construction that plays out, and then the
permanent jobs that follow.  So we expect that to be a well-received
renewable resource in the state.

THE PRESIDENT:  I spent a fair amount of time, prior to the campaign —
campaigning and since then — with some of the really entrepreneurial
geniuses out in Silicon Valley. 

And what they’re now talking about — and you all know, and I wonder how
you view it — is the ability to store the energy when the wind’s not
blowing and when the sun’s not shining. 

I was shown, for example, a — you could have — let’s say you were
powered either — even it could be geothermal, for that matter.  But you
have a facility — a — it looks like — to me, it looked like a platform
about this wide and about that thick that’s in your basement.  And it
stores energy when the wind’s not blowing up when the sun is not
shining. 

Are you — do you — and I know you’re not making those, but how — has
that increased the receptiveness of the idea of wind and solar or
geothermal?

Yes, Lynn.

MS. GOOD:  Yeah, I can respond, Mr. President.  Again, thank you for
having us join.  But we see storage as an incredibly important part of
the equation going forward — not only in people’s homes, but, frankly,
on our system —

THE PRESIDENT:  Yes.

MS. GOOD:  — in order to strengthen it and make it capable of taking on
more resiliency. 

So, as I look at the number of megawatts of renewables we’ll add,
there’s a comparable number of storage megawatts we will also add over
the next decades.  And the tax credits that you have included would be
an important part of lowering costs. 

And the infrastructure bill, under the Department of Energy, has a lot
of investment in the R&D necessary to advance that battery storage.  So,
we think there’s great potential for this.

THE PRESIDENT:  I asked the question for a selfish reason.  Because when
I said — this is going to generate jobs well beyond your site.  And —
and so, there are going to be people manufacturing those battery storage
facilities.  People man- — I mean — so I mean, this has such a ripple
effect that — God willing.

And what’s going to happen is, I predict — you know, right now, in some
cases, China is ahead of us, but I think we’re going to end up having a
significant export market as well that’s going to create thousands of
good-paying jobs here in the United States.  It’s going to be in our
interests to have this, you know, move around the world. 

But, you know, I hope that you all are going to look back on this 10
years from now and say, “Boy, that time we didn’t have any dinner at
that dining room table.”  (Laughter.)  “It still worked.” 

But I want to thank you all very, very much. 

3:01 P.M. EST
