---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2022-02-26'
modified_time: 2022-02-26 17:10:28-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/02/26/joint-statement-on-further-restrictive-economic-measures/
published_time: 2022-02-26 17:10:27-05:00
title: "Joint Statement on Further Restrictive Economic\_Measures"
---
 
We, the leaders of the European Commission, France, Germany, Italy, the
United Kingdom, Canada, and the United States condemn Putin’s war of
choice and attacks on the sovereign nation and people of Ukraine. We
stand with the Ukrainian government and the Ukrainian people in their
heroic efforts to resist Russia’s invasion. Russia’s war represents an
assault on fundamental international rules and norms that have prevailed
since the Second World War, which we are committed to defending. We will
hold Russia to account and collectively ensure that this war is a
strategic failure for Putin.

This past week, alongside our diplomatic efforts and collective work to
defend our own borders and to assist the Ukrainian government and people
in their fight, we, as well as our other allies and partners around the
world, imposed severe measures on key Russian institutions and banks,
and on the architects of this war, including Russian President Vladimir
Putin.

As Russian forces unleash their assault on Kyiv and other Ukrainian
cities, we are resolved to continue imposing costs on Russia that will
further isolate Russia from the international financial system and our
economies. We will implement these measures within the coming days.

Specifically, we commit to undertake the following measures:

First, we commit to ensuring that selected Russian banks are removed
from the SWIFT messaging system. This will ensure that these banks are
disconnected from the international financial system and harm their
ability to operate globally.

Second, we commit to imposing restrictive measures that will prevent the
Russian Central Bank from deploying its international reserves in ways
that undermine the impact of our sanctions.

Third, we commit to acting against the people and entities who
facilitate the war in Ukraine and the harmful activities of the Russian
government. Specifically, we commit to taking measures to limit the sale
of citizenship—so called golden passports—that let wealthy Russians
connected to the Russian government become citizens of our countries and
gain access to our financial systems.

Fourth, we commit to launching this coming week a transatlantic task
force that will ensure the effective implementation of our financial
sanctions by identifying and freezing the assets of sanctioned
individuals and companies that exist within our jurisdictions. As a part
of this effort we are committed to employing sanctions and other
financial and enforcement measures on additional Russian officials and
elites close to the Russian government, as well as their families, and
their enablers to identify and freeze the assets they hold in our
jurisdictions. We will also engage other governments and work to detect
and disrupt the movement of ill-gotten gains, and to deny these
individuals the ability to hide their assets in jurisdictions across the
world.

Finally, we will step up or coordination against disinformation and
other forms of hybrid warfare.

We stand with the Ukrainian people in this dark hour. Even beyond the
measures we are announcing today, we are prepared to take further
measures to hold Russia to account for its attack on Ukraine.

\###
