---
category: statements-releases
date: '2022-02-28'
modified_time: 2022-02-28 17:50:59-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/02/28/fact-sheet-the-white-house-and-department-of-justice-announced-99-law-schools-in-35-states-and-puerto-rico-continue-to-answer-the-attorney-generals-call-to-action-for-stronger-access-to-just-2/
published_time: 2022-02-28 17:50:58-05:00
title: "FACT SHEET: The White\_House and Department of Justice Announced 99 Law Schools\
  \ in 35 States and Puerto Rico Continue to Answer the Attorney General\u2019s Call\
  \ to Action for Stronger Access to Justice and Court Reform on Eviction\_Prevention"
---
 
Today, the White House and the Department of Justice announced 99 law
schools have responded to the [Attorney General’s Call to Action to the
Legal
Profession](https://www.justice.gov/ag/page/file/1428626/download),
issued on August 30, 2021, to address the housing and eviction crisis.
The Attorney General’s Call to Action asked lawyers and law students to
take immediate action to help their communities through Emergency Rental
Assistance application support, volunteering with legal aid providers,
helping courts implement eviction diversion programs, among other
initiatives aimed at increasing housing stability and access to justice.

**The Response from the Legal Profession to the Attorney General’s Call
to Action was Swift and Wide Reaching and Helped to Keep Eviction
Filings Below 60% of Historic Averages.**

-   **99 law schools in 35 states and Puerto Rico immediately committed
    their law schools to help prevent evictions**. These law schools
    worked with faculty and students to take immediate and meaningful
    action to combat the crisis. (See appendix for list of law schools
    and activities.)
-   **Over the past five months, over 2,100 law students dedicated over
    81,000 hours to serve over 10,000 households**, based on a survey
    tracking the effort facilitated by Georgetown University Law Center
    Dean William Treanor and New York University School of Law Dean
    Trevor Morrison.

**The Biden-Harris Administration Implemented a Whole-of-Government Push
to** **Encourage Immediate Relief and Lasting Reform on Eviction Policy
Nationwide.** The Call to Action by the Attorney General and the
response from 99 law schools is part of a whole-of-government approach
to help millions of families keep up on rent and remain in their homes.
The effort has led to increased access to counsel and eviction
prevention in jurisdictions across the country.

-   On March 29, 2021, the Biden-Harris Administration announced
    [multi-agency efforts to get tenants and landlords the assistance
    they
    need](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/03/29/fact-sheet-the-biden-harris-administrations-multi-agency-effort-to-support-renters-and-landlords/)
    during the public health crisis. As part of the strategy, the
    Administration worked quickly to streamline and simplify rules to
    access American Rescue Plan funding to keep people in their homes.
-   On June 24, 2021, the Biden-Harris Administration announced
    [initiatives to promote housing
    stability](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/06/24/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-initiatives-to-promote-housing-stability-by-supporting-vulnerable-tenants-and-preventing-foreclosures/)
    and [Associate Attorney General Vanita Gupta sent a pathbreaking
    letter to state
    courts](https://www.justice.gov/asg/page/file/1405886/download)
    encouraging them to immediately establish eviction diversion
    programs and directing them to federal resources and the [National
    Center for State Courts diversion
    tool](https://www.ncsc.org/information-and-resources/improving-access-to-justice/eviction-resources/eviction-diversion-initiative-grant-program).
    State Supreme Courts in Michigan, Indiana, and Texas adopted
    statewide eviction diversion programs, along with jurisdictions in
    31 states.
-   On June 24, 2021, [Treasury issued guidance strongly encouraging the
    use of ERA housing stability funds for access to counsel and
    eviction diversion
    programs](https://home.treasury.gov/policy-issues/coronavirus/assistance-for-state-local-and-tribal-governments/emergency-rental-assistance-program/faqs#42)
    as tools to help families remain in their homes.
-   Over the summer and early fall, the White House hosted three Summits
    on Eviction Prevention.
    -   On June 30, 2021, [the White House hosted the first-ever Summit
        on Eviction
        Prevention](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/06/30/readout-of-the-white-house-eviction-prevention-summit/),
        which featured a public plenary on best practices in eviction
        diversion and brought together 46 of the highest eviction risk
        cities to share best practices on eviction prevention, diversion
        practices, and ERA distribution.
    -   On July 21, 2021, [the White House hosted the second Summit on
        Eviction
        Prevention](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/07/21/readout-of-the-second-white-house-eviction-prevention-convening/).
        This convening featured county judges and public officials who
        had successfully implemented eviction diversion programs and
        distributed ERA.
    -   On September 9, 2021, [the White House hosted the third Summit
        on Eviction
        Prevention](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/09/09/biden-administration-highlights-high-performers-to-encourage-more-widespread-action-on-delivering-rental-assistance-and-stopping-evictions/)
        which featured mayors, governors, and county officials
        overseeing high performing ERA programs and successful diversion
        programs.
-   On August 11, 2021, [Attorney General Merrick Garland met with
    nearly 40 state supreme court chief
    justices](https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/readout-attorney-general-merrick-b-garland-and-associate-attorney-general-vanita-guptas)
    to emphasize eviction diversion strategies and issued a Call to
    Action to states to implement eviction diversion programs. The
    Attorney General’s [Call to Action to the Legal
    Profession](https://www.justice.gov/ag/page/file/1428626/download)
    followed shortly after on August 30, 2021.
-   On August 11, 2021, [Second Gentleman Douglas Emhoff, White House
    Counsel Dana Remus, and Attorney General Merrick Garland convened a
    listening
    session](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/08/11/readout-of-the-first-listening-session-of-the-white-house-legal-aid-interagency-roundtable/)
    with legal aid providers, pro bono counsel, and a State Attorney
    General to identify and expand creative innovations in access to
    justice, including those designed to keep renters in their homes. 
-   On August 17, 2021, [officials from the White House, Departments of
    Labor, Treasury, Justice, Health and Human Services and Centers for
    Disease Control and Prevention met with the U.S. Conference of
    Mayors](https://www.usmayors.org/2021/08/17/readout-u-s-conference-of-mayors-meets-with-labor-secretary-walsh-cdc-director-walensky-biden-administration-officials-to-discuss-eviction-prevention/),
    urging mayors to adopt eviction diversion strategies and
    highlighting best practices for swift delivery of ERA.
-   In October 2021, [Treasury launched a website that spotlights
    eviction
    diversion](https://home.treasury.gov/policy-issues/coronavirus/assistance-for-state-local-and-tribal-governments/emergency-rental-assistance-program/promising-practices/eviction-diversion)
    and prevention models and provides tool to help ERA grantees and
    community stakeholders take actionable steps to adopt eviction
    diversion. Treasury also dedicated a site to promising practices
    among [ERA programs to prevent
    eviction](https://home.treasury.gov/policy-issues/coronavirus/assistance-for-state-local-and-tribal-governments/emergency-rental-assistance-program/promising-practices/eviction-diversion).
-   On October 29, 2021, [the White House reconvened the Legal Aid
    Interagency
    Roundtable](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/10/29/the-biden-administration-continues-its-work-to-expand-access-to-justice/)
    and released its report, [Access to Justice in the Age of
    COVID-19](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/10/Report-to-the-President-from-the-Attorney-General-September-15-2021.pdf),
    which underscored the urgent need, and the federal response to,
    housing and evictions.

**Broad Legal Community Answered the Call of Attorney General:** Beyond
law schools, Presidents of several major legal organizations, including
the American Bar Association, National Bar Association, Hispanic
National Bar Association, National Conference of Bar Presidents, and
Legal Services Corporation, adopted eviction prevention as a priority
and encouraged action among members. Within 24 hours of the Attorney
General’s Call to Action, the Association for Pro Bono Counsel and Law
Firm Antiracism Alliance, which has nearly 300 law firm members, hosted
trainings for hundreds of pro bono attorneys on assisting tenants with
ERA applications.  
**Historic Progress on Emergency Rental Assistance Program – Aiding
Renters and Preventing Evictions**:  
The rapidly increasing pace of rental assistance, along with efforts to
put into place eviction diversion programs, helped dramatically increase
relief for those in need following the end of the national eviction
moratorium. Instead of the predicted tsunami of evictions, because of
the Administration’s efforts to implement rental assistance programs and
provide flexibility to grantees, eviction filings have remained below
60% of historic averages nationally and well below the 3.7 million
evictions filed in a typical year. Representing a historic effort to
prevent eviction, well over 3 million households received Emergency
Rental Assistance under the program, with approximately [$25-$30 billion
in ERA funds either spent or obligated by the end of
2021](https://home.treasury.gov/news/press-releases/jy0551).  
  
**99 Law Schools Took Meaningful Action to Expand Access to Justice and
Increase Housing Stability:**  
On the same day the Attorney General issued the Call to Action, the
Deans of 99 law schools issued a statement of support and committed to
take immediate and meaningful action to combat the eviction and housing
crisis. The law schools acted with urgency and, over the past five
months, have continued to draw on resources—such as pro bono and
externship programs, clinical offerings, and the service of the larger
law school communities—to respond to the Attorney General’s call. Law
schools partnered with ERA programs, community-based organizations, and
trusted community leaders to increase access to crucial resources and
legal assistance. Law students volunteered to support pro bono and legal
services attorneys by identifying families facing eviction, conducting
intake and research, and drafting motions. Clinics partnered with courts
to create eviction diversion programs, eviction defense walk in clinics,
and “lawyer and law student of the day” programs. In communities across
the country, law students hosted pop up clinics, help-a-thons, ERA
application workshops, and canvassed in high risk communities to ensure
tenants had access to justice and increased housing stability.

**<u>APPENDIX A</u>**  
***Examples of Law School Responses to the Attorney General’s Call to
Action to the Legal Profession  
***  
**Rutgers University Law School:** *Dedicated $2 Million in State
Funding to Establish Cross-Campus and Statewide Anti-Eviction Initiative
to Address the Crisis.* Across campuses, Rutgers University Law School
dedicated $2 million in state funding to increase the school’s ability
to ramp up eviction prevention efforts. The Law School hired multiple
new housing attorneys to represent clients and supervise students in
eviction defense work. Students served over 350 households and dedicated
over 3,700 hours to increasing housing stability in the community in the
fall 2021 semester alone.

On the Newark campus, students faced the challenge of finding tenants.
The courthouse, where tenants typically connect with law students and
attorneys, had been closed since March 2020, leaving tenants to navigate
online evictions without assistance. Associate Professor of Law Norrinda
Brown Hayat established a Housing and Tenant Solidarity Clinic with the
goal of making tenants aware of pending cases, ERA, and counsel.
Students conducted file review to identify pending evictions and
provided legal and ERA application assistance to tenants with upcoming
hearings. Students also launched the Stop Evicting Newark: Know Your
Rights Campaign, in partnership with Newark Water Coalition. Every week,
law students participated in clean water and food distributions to offer
on the spot assistance with ERA applications and legal representation.
Students engaged with over 200 community members in high risk
communities each week. In addition, students created short,
multi-lingual informational videos that were amplified by community
groups and through social media to maximize visibility of ERA and
available legal assistance. The law school’s Camden campus developed a
Housing Justice Clinic aimed at increasing eviction defense, as well as
a new pro bono project to connect tenants with rental assistance and
help them apply for dismissal of their eviction case.

**New York University School of Law, in Partnership with Fordham
University School of Law:** *<u>Launched the New York City Housing
Justice Initiative to Train Over 80 Law Students to Increase Access to
Emergency Rental Assistance.</u>* Within two days of the Attorney
General’s Call to Action, Professors Sateesh Nori and Julia McNally of
New York University’s (NYU) Housing Law Clinic, gathered nearly 100
clinical and pro bono law school programs to expand law schools’
contributions to eviction prevention in their communities. The NYU
Housing Law Clinic partnered with Fordham University School of Law and
the New York Legal Aid Society to launch the Housing Justice Initiative
and train over 80 law students across the city to assist tenants at risk
of eviction in applying for ERA. Students in NYU’s Housing Law Clinic
also provided legal assistance to prevent evictions and improve housing
conditions. In just the fall semester, students helped nearly 60
families stay housed and are continuing their efforts this spring. For
the students the opportunity to help a family stay safely housed is
transformational. “Working with tenants and vulnerable populations to
provide assistance can really help shape students’ sense of themselves
as public interest lawyers and their sense of having a future in public
interest law,” McNally
[said](https://www.reuters.com/legal/government/law-schools-are-answering-justice-departments-call-eviction-help-2021-09-02/).

**Wayne State University School of Law:** *<u>Filling the Justice Gap in
Detroit in Partnership with Legal Services.</u>* When the Attorney
General issued the Call to Action, it struck close to home for the Wayne
State University School of Law. Located in Detroit, the eviction crisis
was dire and the end of the eviction moratorium meant widespread
homelessness and displacement. Dean Richard Bierschbach gathered the pro
bono, experiential, and clinical faculty to immediately launch the
Warrior Eviction Defense Corps, a partnership with the City of Detroit,
United Community Housing Coalition, and Lakeshore Legal Aid, with the
goal of providing legal representation to the thousands of tenants
facing eviction. Under the supervision of experienced attorneys,
students in the Corps staff eviction dockets, conduct client intake,
draft pleadings and settlement documents, and negotiate conditional
dismissals on behalf of tenants. Thanks to a statewide eviction
diversion order issued by Michigan Supreme Court Chief Justice Bridget
McCormick, students can help tenants pause their eviction proceeding in
order to access the ERA program. Students also participate in direct
tenant outreach to support the work of Detroit’s Eviction Prevention
Team. This spring, the Corps plans to add a court watch project and
legal research to support a right to counsel program in Detroit.

Pro bono students participating in University of Michigan School of
Law’s COVID-19 Corps team also partnered with Lakeshore Legal Aid to
meet the growing demand for legal assistance. As Maiya Moncino, the
group’s law student founder
[said](https://www.mlive.com/news/ann-arbor/2020/05/university-of-michigan-law-students-offer-free-legal-help-during-coronavirus-pandemic.html),
“Medical staff are on the front lines, but lawyers are confronting the
pandemic’s shockwaves. COVID-19 has created a whole host of legal
problems. We want to show up for our communities.”

**University of Nebraska College of Law:** *<u>Students Fueled the
Tenant Assistance Project to Increase Access to Counsel and Drastically
Reduce Immediate Evictions – 98% of Represented Tenants Avoided
Immediate Eviction.</u>* The students at Nebraska University College of
Law are the first to point out the unfairness of the eviction system in
the state: less than 2% of tenants have access to legal representation,
state law does not require actual notice of a hearing, and—without
counsel—over 80% of cases result in eviction, often on the same day as
the hearing. When first creating the Tenant Assistance Project, which
grew significantly thanks to the Attorney General’s Call to Action,
faculty and law students wanted to ensure that every tenant facing
eviction had an advocate in their corner. The Tenant Assistance Project,
a partnership between the Law School and over 20 organizations,
including the Nebraska State Bar Association’s Volunteer Lawyers Project
and Legal Aid of Nebraska, expanded from a small group of dedicated
volunteers to a community of students engaged with a statewide effort to
prevent the eviction crisis, thanks to the Attorney General’s Call. Law
students are taking a multi-prong strategy to assist over 400 households
over the last five months that includes: conducting file review to
identify at risk tenants, making direct contact with every household
with a pending eviction hearing to offer them ERA application assistance
and legal representation, preparing eviction defense packets for pro
bono attorneys in every case, and engaging in courthouse advocacy on the
day of hearings. As a result of the program, 98% of represented tenants
avoided immediate orders of eviction.

**Atlanta Area Law Schools**: *<u>Over 300 Law Students from Atlanta
Area Law Schools Provided Pro Bono Support to Attorneys Statewide.</u>*
Just as the Attorney General issued the Call to Action, legal nonprofits
across the state of Georgia were seeing a spike in low-income families
facing housing instability. Law schools in the Atlanta region answered
the Attorney General’s Call to Action by providing the pro bono support
necessary to meet the need. John Marshall School of Law first asked for
“pro bono heroes” to answer the call by participating in a help-a-thon
with Georgia Free Legal Answers. In addition, Georgia State University
and John Marshall law students collaborated with Georgia Legal Services
Program, Atlanta Volunteer Lawyers Foundation, and Atlanta Legal Aid
Society to staff an emergency situation intake project, provide ERA
application support, and support pro bono attorneys with eviction
defense cases. Law students were able to inform vulnerable renters of
their rights, screen for ERA eligibility, and connect them to pro bono
or legal aid attorneys. Pro bono volunteers and law students working
with Georgia Legal Services Program assisted over 350 tenants and
obtained more than $2.5 million for clients in need across 100 cities in
Georgia. With Atlanta Volunteer Lawyers Foundation, they conducted
outreach to an additional 1,000 households.

**Wake Forest University School of Law:** *<u>64 Students Dedicated over
820 Hours to Partner with Medical Providers and Connect Families in Need
with ERA.</u>* When the Attorney General issued the Call to Action, Dean
Jane Aiken quickly mobilized the school’s pro bono program and the
medical-legal partnership clinic, a collaboration with Wake Forest
School of Medicine, the Downtown Health Plaza, and Legal Aid of North
Carolina, to respond to the urgent eviction crisis. To Professor Allyson
Gold, the director of the clinic, it was clear that ERA would be the
most direct and fastest way to protect tenants from the imminent threat
of eviction. The clinic partnered with the county’s ERA program to ramp
up the visibility and accessibility of the program in the highest risk
communities. Students created dual language flyers and posters,
canvassed in the community, and hosted multiple community-based
workshops to assist tenants with their applications. Between direct
outreach and representation, 64 students dedicated 820 hours to serve
110 households. “This would not have been possible without ERA’s
unprecedented funding,” said Katie Merlin, a third-year law student who
helped organize the school’s response. “We believe access to the
American Rescue Plan’s ERA program is the reason that eviction rates are
at historic lows in our community.” Law, medical and undergraduate
students also collaborated to train Downtown Health Plaza medical
providers who serve low-income patients to screen for eviction risk and
to refer them for ERA and legal assistance. Pro bono students
collaborated with Legal Aid of North Carolina to develop know your
rights flyers and a housing law manual for tenants and pro bono
attorneys.

**Washington, D.C. Area Schools, Led by Georgetown University Law
Center:** *<u>Launched Community-Based Clinics and Partnered with
Medical Providers to Reach Those In Need of Assistance</u>**.***
Georgetown University Law Center was among the first to answer the
Attorney General’s Call to address the eviction crisis and protect the
many Washington, D.C. residents in danger of losing their homes.
Students from Georgetown University Law Center, along with students from
George Washington University and American University Washington College
of Law, assisted tenants with ERA applications at pop-up clinics hosted
by the D.C. Office of the Attorney General. The effort prevented over
two dozen scheduled evictions immediately following the Attorney
General’s Call. In addition, Georgetown’s Health Justice Alliance, a
collaboration between Georgetown Law and Georgetown University Medical
Center, expanded its work to increase legal representation of tenants
and provide medical partners with trainings and materials necessary to
help patients understand their rights, access ERA, and avoid eviction.
Students also distributed information about ERA and eviction prevention
to 500 families in the District’s lowest-income schools and conducted
“public benefits” check-ups for all clients to increase financial
assistance.

**Duke University School of Law:** *<u>50 Student Volunteers Established
a Court-Based Eviction Prevention Legal Clinic to Ensure Legal
Representation to Over 100 Individuals.</u>* In Durham, North Carolina,
the pandemic exacerbated what Duke Law faculty describe as a longtime
eviction crisis. Clinic Director Charles Holton, Professor Jesse
Hamilton McCoy II, and student coordinator Amanda Joos recognized the
immense and immediate need and launched the Eviction Advice Clinic at
the Durham County Courthouse. With over 50 student volunteers, they have
been able to staff the clinic every week since the Call to Action and
provide on the spot legal advice, representation, and assistance with
ERA applications. In five months, the students represented approximately
100 individuals who would have otherwise been unrepresented and left to
navigate the eviction system under the looming threat of displacement.

**Boston University School of Law:** *<u>Leveraging Technology to
Increase Tenant Access to Justice</u>*.  As a leader in social justice
and civil rights law, Boston University (BU) Law Dean, Angela
Onwauchi-Willig recognizes that “Few things are more disruptive and
destructive to a person’s life than eviction. You lose your home, your
community, your stability—basically, with an eviction, you lose all that
you have known, all at once.” So, she did not hesitate to heed the
Attorney General’s Call to Action to close the justice gap through the
school’s clinical work. In Boston, throughout the pandemic, traditional
methods for accessing legal representation were often unavailable due to
court and help desk closures and pandemic mitigation protocols. To
ensure tenants had meaningful access to assistance, BU Law leveraged
technological platforms and launched a pro bono service project using
the [MA Defense for Eviction Portal](https://www.gbls.org/MADE), an
online portal created by Quinten Steenhuis and available through Greater
Boston Legal Services to help tenants respond to eviction actions. The
portal connects trained law students and translators with tenants who
need assistance drafting and filing legal pleadings within a short
window to avoid immediate evictions. BU Law Clinical Instructor Jade
Brown
[reflected](https://www.bu.edu/law/record/articles/2021/eviction-crisis/),
“I really felt we could reach a large number of people. I know, having
worked in legal services, just how overwhelmed the system is and how
overwhelmed we were.”  
**<u>APPENDIX B</u>**  
  
***Statement of Law School Deans in Support of the Attorney General’s
Call to the Legal Community***  
***August 30, 2021***

We, the deans of law schools across the United States, agree with
Attorney General Garland that the legal profession is well positioned to
provide support for tenants, landlords, and courts in the looming
housing and eviction crisis. As law school deans responsible for
training the next generation of lawyers to be stewards of an effective,
equitable, and just legal system, we feel obliged to do our part.
Therefore, we are working with our faculty and students to take
immediate and meaningful action to combat this crisis. Drawing on
resources such as our pro bono programs, clinical offerings, and the
service of our larger law school communities, we will help ensure that
families and individuals facing eviction have the legal representation,
counseling, and assistance they need to exercise their rights, that
those entitled to the support of the Emergency Rental Assistance Program
are able to access it, and that eviction proceedings are conducted in a
fair and just manner.

Alicia Ouellette  
Albany Law School  
  
Roger A. Fairfax, Jr.  
American University Washington College of Law  
  
Angela Onwuachi-Willig  
Boston University School of Law  
  
Michael T. Cahill  
Brooklyn Law School  
J. Rich Leonard  
Campbell Law School  
  
Larry Cunningham  
Charleston School of Law  
  
Eduardo R.C. Capulong  
City University of New York School of Law  
  
Lee Fisher  
Cleveland-Marshall College of Law  
  
Gillian Lester  
Columbia Law School  
  
Jens David Ohlin  
Cornell Lw School  
  
Joshua P. Fershée  
Creighton University School of Law  
  
Kerry Abrams  
Duke University School of Law  
  
Luke Bierman  
Elon University School of Law  
Matthew Diller  
Fordham University School of Law  
  
William M. Treanor  
Georgetown University Law Center  
  
LaVonda N. Reed  
Georgia State University College of Law  
  
Colin Crawford  
Golden Gate University School of Law  
  
John F. Manning  
Harvard Law School  
  
Gail Prudenti  
Hofstra University Maurice A. Deane School of Law  
  
Danielle Holley-Walker  
Howard University School of Law  
  
Gordon Smith  
J. Reuben Clark Brigham Young University Law School  
  
Michael Waterstone  
Loyola Law School, Los Angeles  
  
Zelda B. Harris  
Loyola University Chicago School of Law  
  
Patricia Bennett  
Mississippi College School of Law  
  
Anthony Niedwiecki  
Mitchell Hamline School of Law  
  
Anthony W. Crowell  
New York Law School  
  
Trevor W. Morrison  
New York University School of Law  
  
Hari M. Osofsky  
Northwestern Pritzker School of Law  
  
G. Marcus Cole  
Notre Dame Law School  
  
Horace E. Anderson  
Pace University Elisabeth Haub School of Law  
  
Danielle M. Conway  
Penn State Dickinson Law  
  
James W. Houck  
Penn State Law  
  
Fernando Moreno Orama  
Pontifical Catholic University of Puerto Rico Law School  
  
Jennifer Gerarda Brown  
Quinnipiac University School of Law  
  
Mark Martin  
Regent Law School  
  
Gregory W. Bowman  
Roger Williams University School of Law  
  
Rose Cuison-Villazor  
Rutgers Law School  
  
Kimberly Mutcherson  
Rutgers Law School  
  
William P. Johnson  
Saint Louis University School of Law  
  
Annette E. Clark  
Seattle University School of Law  
  
Kathleen M. Boozang  
Seton Hall School of Law  
  
Michael F. Barry  
South Texas College of Law Houston  
  
Jennifer M. Collins  
Southern Methodist University Dedman School of Law  
  
John Pierre  
Southern University Law Center  
  
Darby Dickerson  
Southwestern Law School  
  
Michael A. Simons  
St. John’s University School of Law  
  
Patricia E. Roberts  
St. Mary’s University School of Law  
  
Jenny S. Martinez  
Stanford Law School  
  
Michèle Alexandre  
Stetson University College of Law  
  
Andrew Perlman  
Suffolk University Law School  
  
Craig M. Boise  
Syracuse University College of Law  
  
Robert B. Ahdieh  
Texas A&M University School of Law  
  
Dayna Bowen Matthew  
The George Washington University Law School  
  
Katharine T. Schaffzin  
The University of Memphis Cecil C. Humphreys School of Law  
  
Elena B. Langan  
Touro Law Center  
  
Jennifer L. Mnookin  
UCLA School of Law  
  
Aviva Abramovsky  
University at Buffalo School of Law, The State University of New York  
  
Mark E. Brandon  
University of Alabama School of Law  
  
Ronald Weich  
University of Baltimore School of Law  
  
David L. Faigman  
University of California, Hastings College of the Law  
  
Erwin Chemerinsky  
University of California, Berkeley School of Law  
  
Eboni S. Nelson  
University of Connecticut School of Law  
  
Jelani Jefferson Exum  
University of Detroit Mercy School of Law  
  
Laura Ann Rosenbury  
University of Florida Levin College of Law  
  
Bo Rutledge  
University of Georgia School of Law  
  
Camille Nelson  
University of Hawai‘i at Mānoa – William S. Richardson School of Law  
  
Leonard M. Baynes  
University of Houston Law Center  
  
Johanna Kalb  
University of Idaho College of Law  
  
Donald B. Tobin  
University of Maryland Francis King Carey School of Law  
  
Eric J. Mitnick  
University of Massachusetts School of Law  
  
Mark D. West  
University of Michigan Law School  
  
Garry W.
Jenkins                                                                 
University of Minnesota Law School  
  
Susan H. Duncan  
University of Mississippi School of Law  
  
Richard Moberly  
University of Nebraska College of Law  
  
Sergio Pareja  
University of New Mexico School of Law  
  
Marcilynn A. Burke  
University of Oregon School of Law  
Theodore W. Ruger  
University of Pennsylvania Carey Law School  
  
Amy J. Wildermuth  
University of Pittsburgh School of Law  
  
Wendy C. Perdue  
University of Richmond School of Law  
  
Robert A. Schapiro  
University of San Diego School of Law  
  
William C. Hubbard  
University of South Carolina School of Law  
  
Andrew T. Guzman  
University of Southern California Gould School of Law  
  
Robert K. Vischer  
University of St. Thomas School of Law  
  
Ward Farnsworth  
University of Texas School of Law  
  
Renée McDonald Hutchins  
University of the District of Columbia David A. Clarke School of Law  
  
Michael Hunter Schwartz  
University of the Pacific McGeorge School of Law  
  
Elizabeth McCormick  
University of Tulsa College of Law  
  
Elizabeth Kronk Warner  
University of Utah S.J. Quinney College of Law  
  
Risa L. Goluboff  
University of Virginia School of Law  
  
Mario L. Barnes  
University of Washington School of Law  
  
Chris Guthrie  
Vanderbilt Law School  
  
Jane Aiken  
Wake Forest University School of Law  
  
Carla D. Pratt  
Washburn University School of Law  
  
Nancy Staudt  
Washington University School of Law  
  
Richard A. Bierschbach  
Wayne State University Law School  
  
Amelia Smith Rinehart  
West Virginia University College of Law  
  
James McGrath  
Western Michigan University Thomas M. Cooley Law School  
  
Sudha Setty  
Western New England University School of Law  
  
Heather K. Gerken  
Yale Law School  
  
Melanie Leslie  
Yeshiva University Benjamin N. Cardoza

\###
