---
category: statements-releases
date: '2022-02-24'
modified_time: 2022-02-24 16:34:36-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/02/24/president-biden-announces-key-regional-appointments-for-usda-epa-and-fema/
published_time: 2022-02-24 16:00:00-05:00
title: President Biden Announces Key Regional Appointments for USDA, EPA, and FEMA
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Joe Biden appointed the following
individuals to serve in key regional leadership roles at the United
States Department of Agriculture (USDA), the Environmental Protection
Agency (EPA), and the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) at the
Department of Homeland Security:

-   Amy Knapp Pettit, UDSA State Executive Director, Farm Service
    Agency, Alaska
-   Janice Kolvet, USDA State Executive Director, Farm Service Agency,
    Nevada
-   Marcy Svenningsen, USDA State Executive Director, Farm Service
    Agency, North Dakota
-   Julia Hnilicka, USDA State Director, Rural Development, Alaska
-   Chris Kanazawa, USDA State Director, Rural Development, Hawaii
-   Terry Goodin, USDA State Director, Rural Development, Indiana
-   Scott Soares, USDA State Director, Rural Development, Massachusetts,
    Rhode Island, and Connecticut
-   Colleen Landkamer, USDA State Director, Rural Development, Minnesota
-   Trina George, USDA State Director, Rural Development, Mississippi
-   Jane Asselta, USDA State Director, Rural Development, New Jersey
-   Kenneth Corn, USDA State Director, Rural Development, Oklahoma
-   David Cash, EPA Regional Administrator, Region 1
-   Willie Nunn, FEMA Regional Administrator, Region 10

These regional appointees will be critical to the President’s efforts to
rebuild communities most impacted by the pandemic, the economic
recovery, and climate change. They bring deep expertise in their issue
areas as well as critical relationships with federal, state, tribal, and
local leaders. And, consistent with the President’s commitment to
building an administration that looks like America, these regional
appointees represent the diversity of America and the communities they
serve.  
  
**UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (USDA)**  
The USDA’s Farm Service Agency implements agricultural policy,
administers credit and loan programs, and manages conservation,
commodity, disaster, and farm marketing programs in each U.S. State. Its
mission is to equitably serve all farmers, ranchers, and agricultural
partners through the delivery of effective, efficient agricultural
programs for all Americans. State Executive Directors oversee this work,
ensuring the needs of local constituents are met and that USDA resources
are distributed equitably and fairly.  
  
USDA’s Rural Development mission area is committed to helping improve
the economy and quality of life in rural America. State Directors lead
offices that offer grants, loans, and loan guarantees to help create
jobs and support economic development and essential services.  
  
**Amy Knapp Pettit, USDA State Executive Director, Farm Service Agency,
Alaska**  
Amy Knapp Pettit was raised on a cow-calf operation on the Southern
Oregon Coast where generations of her family have raised premier beef
cattle for over 100 years. Pettit graduated from Oregon State University
with a Bachelor of Science in Agricultural Business Management in
2003.  
  
She arrived in Alaska in 2005 and began her career with the State
Division of Agriculture. During her tenure, she led the Marketing &
Development team, was a founding board member of the Alaska Food Policy
Council, and sat on the North American Agricultural Marketing Officials
Executive Board. Pettit became the Executive Director of the Alaska
Farmland Trust in 2015 where her role includes permanently protecting
valuable agricultural lands, promoting the industry across multiple
platforms, and educating fellow Alaskans on the importance of their food
system. When she’s not working to inspire others about Alaska’s
agriculture industry, Pettit enjoys chasing her teenaged daughters from
the soccer pitch to the basketball court and seeks to balance it all
through teaching and practicing yoga.  
  
**Janice Kolvet, USDA State Executive Director, Farm Service Agency,
Nevada**  
Janice Kolvet was born and raised in Reno, Nevada. Kolvet began her
federal career 25 years ago and served in many positions with the Farm
Service Agency in Nevada, California, and Washington, D.C. She managed
farm program delivery at the county office level as a district director,
and as an agricultural program specialist in both the Nevada and
California state FSA offices. In Washington, D.C., she served as a
supervisory agricultural program specialist in the Production,
Emergencies and Compliance Division, Disaster Assistance Section, at FSA
headquarters where she directed a staff charged with national farm
policy. She also worked on a 2014 Farm Bill task force, with the
responsibility for developing new policy for federal disaster
assistance. Kolvet also has previous experience as a cattle rancher in
Elko, Nevada. As a career federal employee with both field and national
office experience with federal farm programs, and as a rancher, Kolvet
knows the importance of federal farm policy for all agricultural
producers.  
  
**Marcy Svenningsen, USDA State Executive Director, Farm Service Agency,
North Dakota**  
Marcy Svenningsen has spent most of her adult life advocating for family
farm agriculture. She grew up on a family farm and received a degree in
Accounting from Valley City State University. Svenningsen and her
husband, Greg, live and work on a farm and ranch about 10 miles west of
Valley City where they grow wheat, corn, soybeans, and feed for their
cattle. Svenningsen spent 12 years as a District Director on the North
Dakota Farmers Union state board. She also served as the Chair of the
USDA ND Farm Service Agency State Committee for eight years. Most
recently, Svenningsen has been serving as the chair of the Cass County
Electric Cooperative board of directors and as a director on the
Minnkota Power Cooperative board.  
  
Svenningsen and Greg have two married children and five grandchildren.
They are working with their son and his family in their farming
operation, and Svenningsen has also worked off the farm for over 30
years as a Finance Director for Open Door Center in Valley City, a
non-profit corporation that provides services to individuals with
disabilities. She is the Secretary/Treasurer for Zion Free Lutheran
Church and is an active participant in the church and her community.  
  
**Julia Hnilicka, USDA State Director, Rural Development, Alaska**  
Born and raised in rural Alaska, Julia Hnilicka has resided for the
majority of her life in her home village of Nenana. The daughter of a
tugboat captain and an educator, her background instills a deep, lived
understanding of the complexities of the issues facing rural residents.
Her professional experience includes remote logistics, economic
development, academic and environmental research, Indigenous studies,
politics, education, and business management. Hnilicka’s recent run for
Alaska State House, in the rural Interior district, activated her
passion and drive for addressing the many persistent problems facing
Alaska’s most valuable asset, our people. She obtained her Master’s in
Rural Development from the University of Alaska Fairbanks, Department of
Alaska Native Studies and Rural Development. While seeking her degree,
she traveled throughout Alaska, interfacing with a vast diversity of
population and resources. Her decade-long workplace experience in
managing a successful freight logistics business on the Yukon River
gives her a unique awareness of the challenges that face rural Alaska.
Her primary mission is to be a positive force in Alaska’s future, which
drives her dedication to address the housing crisis, broadband for all,
support for small businesses, and workforce development.

**Chris Kanazawa, USDA State Director, Rural Development, Hawaii**  
Chris J. Kanazawa has over 25 years of experience in the real estate
industry. Having served in several leadership roles, Kanazawa has
extensive knowledge of planning, land use entitlement, and development
of residential, commercial, industrial, resort, and golf course real
estate projects. He previously held positions as President of the Land
Division for Amfac/JMB Hawaii, and upon leaving the real estate
industry, Kanazawa was named President and CEO of Parker Ranch, Inc. in
Waimea, Hawaii, the fifth largest cattle ranch in the United States with
landholdings of over 133,000 acres.  
  
In 2010, Kanazawa was appointed by President Obama as the USDA Rural
Development State Director for Hawaii. Under his leadership, the Hawaii
State Office provided over $2.5 billion in loans and grants to assist
residential, commercial, public infrastructure, renewable energy,
utility, and agriculture projects. His region of responsibility covered
over 4.3 million square miles across the Pacific and included Hawaii,
Guam, The Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, American Samoa,
The Republic of the Marshall Islands, The Federated States of
Micronesia, and The Republic of Palau. Kanazawa is a resident of
Honolulu and holds a Bachelor of Arts degree in Economics from the
University of Hawaii at Manoa as well as a Master of Business
Administration degree in Accounting and Finance from the University of
Southern California Marshall School of Business.  
  
**Terry Goodin, USDA State Director, Rural Development, Indiana**  
A lifelong Hoosier, Dr. Terry Goodin grew up raising beef cattle on the
family farm and has committed his professional life to public service.
Most recently, Goodin served for 24 years as a public-school
superintendent at Crothersville Community Schools. As superintendent, he
developed one of the first Early College Initiatives in the state,
allowing students the opportunity to graduate from high school with a
college degree. He also initiated vocational classes that allowed
students to earn national and international certifications, giving them
the skills and confidence to start a profession immediately after high
school graduation.  
  
Elected in 2000, Goodin served for 20 years in the Indiana House of
Representatives and was chosen by his colleagues as the House Minority
Leader in 2017. As a member of the Indiana General Assembly, Goodin
committed his time to creating better opportunities for rural Indiana
through educational, agricultural, and rural development initiatives and
was a staunch advocate for the expansion of broadband connectivity. He
also served on the State Budget Committee, was Vice-Chairman of the
House Ways and Means Committee, and was a member of the following
committees: Agriculture and Rural Development, Natural Resources, Roads
and Transportation, International Trade, Banking and Finance, Elections
and Apportionment. Goodin is a graduate of Eastern Kentucky University,
where he received his Bachelors of Arts in 1989 and Master of Arts in
History and Secondary Education in 1990. In 1995 he received his
Doctorate from Indiana University Bloomington. Goodin is a native of
Austin, Indiana where he resides with his wife and three children and
continues to raise beef cattle on the family farm.  
  
**Scott Soares, USDA State Director, Rural Development, Massachusetts,
Rhode Island, and Connecticut**  
Scott J. Soares is the owner of Boston Bay Consulting. Drawing on over
25 years of experience, he offers a broad range of government relations
services, business and project development assistance, and
organizational management support to those working in aquaculture,
agriculture, fisheries, and food systems. Soares was appointed by
President Obama to serve as USDA Rural Development State Director for
Connecticut, Massachusetts, and Rhode Island where he oversaw staff and
program delivery for a suite of over 50 programs that were aimed at
improving economic prosperity for Southern New England’s rural
communities. Through his work as Executive Director of the U.S.
Cranberry Marketing Committee (CMC), Soares worked with the cranberry
industry across the United States, led a redesign and implementation of
new processes and data collection services for CMC, and propelled
marketing initiatives in Europe, Asia, and South and Central America.
Soares began his career at the Massachusetts Department of Agricultural
Resources where he held a variety of leadership positions including the
Commonwealth’s first Aquaculture Program Director and culminating with a
gubernatorial appointment as Commissioner of the Department in 2009.  
  
Soares received a double major in Biology and Marine Biology from The
University of Massachusetts Dartmouth and completed course work in
aquaculture and fisheries at University of Rhode Island. Soares is also
a proud veteran of the United States Army where he served as an Airborne
Field Artillery Surveyor and the Massachusetts Army National Guard.  
  
**Colleen Landkamer, USDA State Director, Rural Development,
Minnesota**  
Colleen Landkamer was first elected to the Blue Earth County Board of
Commissioners in 1988. After 21 years of service, she was appointed by
President Obama to serve as USDA Rural Development State Director for
Minnesota in 2009. Following her eight-year appointment and almost 10
years away from serving on the Blue Earth County Board, Landkamer was
re-elected to the board in 2019. In southern Minnesota, Landkamer
represents a district located within the county seat of Mankato.  
  
Landkamer has an enormous passion and energy for county government. She
has brought the concerns of counties to the national stage since her
involvement in forming the National Association of Counties Rural Action
Caucus (RAC) in 1998. Landkamer’s enthusiasm for RAC helped take it from
an organization of 20 members to several hundred. In 2006 and 2007,
Landkamer served as President of the National Association of Counties
(NACo) and has also served on NACo’s executive board since 2002.
Landkamer is a past president of the Association of Minnesota Counties
(AMC). In 2000, Landkamer was recognized by *American City and County
Magazine* as 2000 County Leader of the Year. She has attended the Army
War College, has been a Humphrey Institute Policy Fellow, a Columbia
University rural policy fellow, graduate of the Senior Executive Program
in State and Local Government at Harvard University, and a graduate of
the 2005 New York University leadership program.  
  
**Trina George, USDA State Director, Rural Development, Mississippi**  
Filled with a passion to serve her fellow Mississippians, Dr. Trina
George’s service includes decades of experience working to develop rural
communities and economic development in Mississippi. Previously, she was
employed as the Special Projects/Community Outreach and Development
Coordinator in the Office of Congressman Bennie G. Thompson (MS-02).
This experience allowed her to directly engage and support the
surrounding communities of western Mississippi, assisting constituents
with rural housing, water, wastewater, and infrastructure
requirements. Her hands-on experience collaborating with federal, state,
and local governments to develop rural communities prepared her for her
appointment as the USDA Rural Development State Director for Mississippi
in 2009. As a part of the Obama Administration, this opportunity enabled
George to continue her service to the people of Mississippi,
facilitating programs that resulted in the distribution of over $5
billion in federal loan and grant funds to rural communities. In
addition to her professional dedication to public service, George has
served as a President of the Parent Teacher Association, AmeriCorps
volunteer, lifetime member of the Girl Scouts of America, and an active
member in the Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority, Incorporated.   
  
She is the proud parent of three children, all of whom are serving their
country in the Armed Forces. George earned her Ph.D. from Walden
University in Public Policy and Administration. She holds a master’s
degree from Mississippi State University and a bachelor’s degree from
Mississippi Valley State University. She also has a Specialized
Certification in Creating Collaborative Solutions: Innovations in
Governance from Harvard University’s Kennedy School of Executive
Education and a Professional Certificate in Management and Leadership
from the NeighborWorks Training Institute of America in Washington,
D.C.   
  
**Jane Asselta, USDA State Director, Rural Development, New Jersey**  
Jane Asselta serves as Vice President of the Southern New Jersey
Development Council (SNJDC), a 501(c)(6) non-profit business association
comprised of key leaders and decision-makers representing businesses and
organizations in the public and private sectors who care about the
issues concerning the current and future development in New Jersey’s
eight southern counties.  
  
Prior to joining the SNJDC, Asselta operated a boutique fundraising
consulting firm in Chicago, which relocated to South Jersey in 2005,
providing candidates for public office services including developing a
fundraising strategy and plan; structuring, staffing, and supervising a
finance department and team; and organizing major fundraising events
with high-profile special guests. Asselta is a native of Vineland,
growing up a few miles from the family’s produce farm when “farm to
table” was a way of life. Asselta is a graduate of Douglass College,
Rutgers University, and Vineland High School.  
  
**Kenneth Corn, USDA State Director, Rural Development, Oklahoma**  
Kenneth Corn has spent his entire adult life serving the people of
Oklahoma, including serving in the Oklahoma House of Representatives
after being elected at age 22 and later in the Oklahoma State Senate.
During his tenure, Corn was honored to serve as the Democratic Caucus
Chair as well as the chair of the Senate Appropriations Sub-committee
for Public Safety and Judiciary where he was considered a strong
advocate for law enforcement and good steward of taxpayers’ dollars.
During his service in the Oklahoma Legislature, Corn was a driving force
behind increasing teacher pay, working hard to pass the Larry Dickerson
Flexible Benefit Act providing 100 percent health insurance to school
personnel throughout Oklahoma. Additionally, he tackled prison
overcrowding and staffing shortages, additional academies to put more
troopers on the street, and increased the pay of state law enforcement
officials.  
  
In 2010, Corn returned home to Poteau where he worked in the oil and gas
transportation industry and in 2015, Corn was appointed the City Manager
of Anadarko, OK where he manages the day-to-day functions of the city
government and the public works authority.  
  
**ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (EPA)**  
Regional Administrators lead the EPA’s 10 regional offices around the
country, each of which is responsible for the execution of EPA programs
within a set of several states and territories. EPA regional offices
also ensure the views and needs of each region are incorporated into the
formulation of agency and national policy.  
  
**David Cash, EPA Regional Administrator, Region 1**  
David W. Cash has spent his career in public service harnessing science,
innovative policy, and participatory decision-making to solve challenges
and seize opportunities at the intersection of environment, economy, and
equity. In his most recent position, Cash was the Dean of the John W.
McCormack Graduate School of Policy and Global Studies at the University
of Massachusetts Boston. Cash spent a decade in Massachusetts state
government, where he held a range of senior positions. As Assistant
Secretary of Policy in the Executive Office of Energy and Environmental
Affairs in Governor Deval Patrick’s Administration, he was an architect
of nation-leading climate, clean energy, and environmental justice
policies. All of these initiatives were grounded in the notion that wise
environmental policy, economic policy, and policies for equity can and
should go hand-in-hand. He then served as a Commissioner in the
Department of Public Utilities, followed by serving as the Commissioner
of the Department of Environmental Protection.  
  
With this rare experience of being both an environment and an energy
commissioner, Cash had the unique perspective of understanding the
importance of breaking down silos and focusing on complex issues in much
more comprehensive and integrative ways. In these roles, he collaborated
in government and with communities and the private sector to craft and
implement innovative science-based policies around climate,
environmental justice, energy, job creation, water, land use, waste
management, and grid modernization. Cash holds a Ph.D. in public policy
from the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University. He
and his wife Annie Weiss, a psychotherapist, live in the Boston area and
have two young adult daughters.

Region 1 serves Connecticut, Maine, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, Rhode
Island, and Vermont.

**FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (FEMA)**  
Regional Administrators lead FEMA’s 10 Regional offices and coordinate
directly with the FEMA Administrator to support state, local, tribal,
and territorial (SLTT) communities in their geographic area of
operations delivering frontline services across the spectrum of
preparedness, mitigation, response, recovery, and continuity
programs. The Regional Administrators play a critical role in delivering
timely, efficient, effective, and accessible federal assistance.  
  
**Willie Nunn, FEMA Regional Administrator, Region 10**  
Willie G. Nunn is a Type 1 Federal Coordinating Officer (FCO1) and a
member of the Field Leadership Cadre in the Department of Homeland
Security, Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). As an FCO, Nunn
serves as the representative of the President of the United States,
Secretary of the Department of Homeland Security, and FEMA Administrator
during major disaster and emergency declarations; and as an FCO1 serves
as FCO1 Field Leader Supervisor for FEMA Regions II, VIII, IX, & X.  
  
Prior to joining FEMA, Colonel Nunn completed a United States Air Force
career with over 26 years on active duty. His assignments included two
command tours and two combat tours in in Operations ENDURING FREEDOM
2002 in Afghanistan and IRAQI FREEDOM 2003 in Iraq. As a Master Air
Battle Manager, he has over 2,900 flight hours on board AWACS and JSTARS
with 201 flight hours in combat. Nunn graduated from the University of
Alabama-Birmingham with a Bachelor of Arts in History and from the
University of Oklahoma with a Master of Public Administration. He and
his wife Sylvia have three children, Sacha, Adam, and Alene.  
  
Region 10 serves Alaska, Idaho, Oregon, and Washington.   
\###
