---
category: statements-releases
date: '2022-02-28'
modified_time: 2022-02-28 16:37:34-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/02/28/fact-sheet-lowering-prices-and-leveling-the-playing-field-in-ocean-shipping/
published_time: 2022-02-28 15:00:00-05:00
title: "FACT SHEET:  Lowering Prices and Leveling the Playing Field in Ocean\_Shipping"
---
 
The President is announcing an historic agreement between the Department
of Justice and the Federal Maritime Commission (FMC) to make sure that
large ocean freight companies cannot take advantage of U.S. businesses
and consumers. Right now, three global alliances, made up entirely of
foreign companies, control almost all of ocean freight shipping, giving
them power to raise prices for American businesses and consumers, while
threatening our national security and economic competitiveness.

Most traded goods—everything from the housewares you buy online to the
agricultural products American farmers market overseas—are transported
by ocean freight companies. **These companies have formed global
alliances—groups of ocean carrier companies that work together—that now
control**
[**80**](https://www.itf-oecd.org/sites/default/files/docs/impact-alliances-container-shipping.pdf)**%**
**of global container ship capacity and control**
[**95**](https://www.itf-oecd.org/sites/default/files/docs/impact-alliances-container-shipping.pdf)**%**
**of the critical East-West trade lines.** This consolidation happened
rapidly over the last decade. From 1996 to 2011, the leading three
alliances operated only about
[30](https://www.itf-oecd.org/sites/default/files/docs/impact-alliances-container-shipping.pdf)%
of global container shipping. Significant consolidation occurred in the
years running up to the Pandemic.   

Since the beginning of the pandemic, these ocean carrier companies have
been dramatically increasing shipping costs through rate increases and
fees. **They increased spot rates for freight shipping between Asia and
the United States by 100% since January 2020, and increased rates for
freight shipping between the United States and Asia** [**by over
1,000%**](https://fbx.freightos.com/freight-index/FBX01) **over the same
period.** Oftentimes cargo owners are charged fees—known as “detention
and demurrage” fees—even when they can’t get access to their containers
to move them. The FMC estimates that from July to September of 2021,
eight of the largest carriers charged customers fees totaling $2.2
billion—a 50% increase on the previous three-month period.

These historically large shipping price increases translate into higher
prices for American consumers. Based on research by the [Kansas City
Fed](https://www.kansascityfed.org/ten/2017-spring-ten-magazine/shipping/#:~:text=Kansas%20City%20Fed%20economists%20Nicholas,core%20inflation%20after%20one%20year.)
and the [European Central
Bank](https://www.ecb.europa.eu/pub/economic-bulletin/focus/2021/html/ecb.ebbox202103_01~8ecbf2b17c.en.html),
these shipping cost increases are expected to contribute to
approximately a 1% increase in consumer prices over the next year.

Meanwhile, the ocean carrier companies are experiencing elevated profits
and soaring profit margins. Estimates suggest that the container
shipping industry made a record
[$190](https://www.drewry.co.uk/news/is-it-time-for-investors-to-exit-the-container-shipping-space)
billion in profits in 2021, a [seven-fold
increase](https://fortune.com/2021/12/03/shipping-container-record-profit-supply-chain-breakdown/#:~:text=Container%20shipping%20pre%2Dtax%20profit,to%20The%20Journal%20of%20Commerce.)
from the previous year and five times what it made over the [entire
period from
2010-2020](https://phaata.com/en/logistics-market/container-shipping-lines-report-record-profits-in-the-third-quarter-of-2021-1096.html).
Profit margins have increased by even larger amounts. **In the third
quarter of 2021, the average operating margin of the major carriers was
about**
[**56**](https://globalmaritimehub.com/shipping-profit-margins-accelerate.html)**%,
compared to an average operating margin of 3.7% two years earlier**:

<figure>
<img
src="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/02/Econ-image-1.jpg"
class="wp-image-47993" loading="lazy"
sizes="(max-width: 680px) 100vw, 680px"
srcset="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/02/Econ-image-1.jpg 680w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/02/Econ-image-1.jpg?resize=615,346 615w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/02/Econ-image-1.jpg?resize=304,171 304w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/02/Econ-image-1.jpg?resize=608,342 608w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/02/Econ-image-1.jpg?resize=1200,675 1200w"
width="680" height="383" />
</figure>

Beyond price increases, several specific business practices of many
large ocean carrier companies are hurting American businesses and
farmers. For example, because of their market power, these alliances are
able to cancel or change bookings and impose additional fees without
notice. These unpredictable practices undermine American business’
ability to deliver orders on time. [All too
often](https://www.agri-pulse.com/articles/17129-usda-to-boost-ag-export-capacity-at-port-of-oakland),
ocean carriers are effectively
[refusing](https://www.agri-pulse.com/articles/17129-usda-to-boost-ag-export-capacity-at-port-of-oakland)
to take American exports altogether, preferring to [speed back to
China](https://www.cnbc.com/2021/01/26/shipping-carriers-rejected-us-agricultural-exports-sent-empty-containers-to-china.html)
with an empty ship to make a quick turnaround rather than transport
American exporters’ cargo or dock at American ports. This is especially
difficult to our farmers, who have spent decades building relationships
internationally, only to find that now they can’t transport their
agricultural products overseas with any reliability or predictability.

The carriers have also continued to pursue practices that directly
contribute to port congestion, such as imposing “box rules” that require
truckers to use only certain trailers to haul their containers—thus
forcing truckers to wait for the “right” kind of trailer to become
available. That leads to lower pay and longer wait times for our
nation’s truck drivers, who get paid per box, and allows the ocean
carriers to generate even higher detention and demurrage fees.

A century ago, in the original Ocean Shipping Act, Congress provided for
utility-style regulation of ocean carriers, paired with antitrust
immunity for ocean carrier alliance agreements only when the alliance
was in the “public interest.” But Congress [steadily
deregulated](https://www.justice.gov/atr/file/823411/download) the
industry—expanding the antitrust immunity while weakening ocean
carriers’ obligations to publicly disclose prices and fees and treat
businesses and their customers fairly. That is how we have arrived at
the point where three alliances can dominate the market for ocean
shipping and squeeze American businesses and consumers.

**<u>The Biden-Harris Administration is taking steps to lower consumer
prices and level the playing field in ocean shipping:</u>**

-   **Today, the FMC and the Department of Justice (DOJ) are**
    [**announcing**](https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/justice-department-and-federal-maritime-commission-reaffirm-and-strengthen-partnership)
    **a new joint initiative to promote competition in the ocean freight
    transportation system.** Under the new initiative, DOJ will provide
    the FMC with the support of attorneys and economists from the
    Antitrust Division for enforcement of violations of the Shipping Act
    and related laws. The FMC will provide the Antitrust Division with
    support and maritime industry expertise for Sherman Act and Clayton
    Act enforcement actions. The agencies’ announcement explains that
    competition in the maritime industry is integral to lowering prices,
    improving quality of service, and strengthening the resilience of
    supply chains.

This initiative grew out of the “whole of government” approach to
competition established by the President’s July Executive Order on
Promoting Competition. The FMC and the DOJ are both part of the White
House Competition Council established by the Order. Their partnership
builds on an information-sharing Memorandum of Understanding that the
agencies [entered into in
July](https://www.justice.gov/opa/pr/justice-department-and-federal-maritime-commission-sign-memorandum-understanding-support).

-   **The FMC will continue ramping up oversight of the global ocean
    shipping industry.** Since last summer, the FMC has established a
    [new audit
    program](https://www.fmc.gov/fmc-establishes-ocean-carriers-audit-program/)
    backed by an audit team to address complaints about carriers
    charging unfair fees, [demanded
    justification](https://www.fmc.gov/commission-questions-shipping-lines-about-surcharges/)
    from the carriers about their fees, launched 42 cases investigating
    port congestion charges, and took steps to [address barriers to
    filing
    complaints](https://www.fmc.gov/fmc-policy-statements-provide-guidance-on-complaints-process/)
    at the FMC and to prevent retaliation against complainants. It also
    launched a [new data
    initiative](https://www.fmc.gov/commissioner-bentzel-hosts-inaugural-meeting-of-fmc-data-initiative/)
    to identify data constraints that are adding to supply chain
    congestion. This month, the FMC also [sought
    comments](https://www.fmc.gov/commission-invites-comments-on-benefits-of-new-demurrage-detention-rule/)
    on reforms to how carriers charge shippers fees.  
      
    The Administration, led by Port Envoy John Porcari, has also worked
    with the Ports of Los Angeles and Long Beach to develop new fees on
    ocean carrier companies for letting cargo sit on the docks for over
    nine days. These long-dwelling import containers had been causing
    delays in getting goods to shelves while increasing port congestion.
    Since the announcement of the proposed fee, the number of
    long-dwelling containers on the docks has fallen more than 70
    percent. Building on the success of the proposed carrier fee, the
    Administration is working with the ports on charging the carriers
    for long-dwelling empty containers that have been clogging the
    docks. There has been a more than 25 percent drop in the number of
    empty containers on the docks at the Port of Los Angeles since that
    announcement.

The need for reform to our ocean freight transportation system to
improve fluidity and fairness, particularly for our agricultural
exporters, was underscored last week in reports released by the
[Department of
Transportation](https://www.transportation.gov/supplychains) and [the
Department of Agriculture (USDA)](https://www.ams.usda.gov/supply-chain)
as part of the Administration’s six supply chain [industrial base
reports](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/02/24/the-biden-harris-plan-to-revitalize-american-manufacturing-and-secure-critical-supply-chains-in-2022/)
published on the one-year anniversary of the President’s supply chain
executive order.

-   **The President is calling on Congress to pass robust reforms to the
    ocean shipping industry, including reforms that address the current
    antitrust immunity for ocean shipping alliances.** In addition to
    the important administrative actions announced today, the President
    believes Congress should provide additional tools for the
    Administration to address problems in the ocean shipping industry.
    The President is encouraged by action in both Houses of Congress to
    address these problems. He is calling on Congress to also address
    the immunity of alliance agreements from antitrust scrutiny under
    current law.

\###
