---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2022-02-02'
modified_time: 2022-02-02 17:19:11-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/02/02/president-biden-announces-additional-advisors-for-supreme-court-process/
published_time: 2022-02-02 17:25:00-05:00
title: "President\_Biden Announces Additional Advisors for Supreme Court\_Process"
---
 
As President Biden considers a range of deeply qualified potential
nominees for the Supreme Court and seeks the advice of lawmakers in both
parties as well as legal experts across the country, he is adding three
new advisors for the nomination and confirmation process.

These advisors bring decades of experience to the table and will join
the White House team working with the President on the selection of the
nation’s first Black woman to the Supreme Court, reporting to White
House Counsel Dana Remus as the President continues to review
candidates.

The White House officials currently advising the President on his
selection are the Vice President, White House Chief of Staff Ron Klain,
Remus, Director of Legislative Affairs Louisa Terrell, White House
Senior Advisor Cedric Richmond, Deputy Director of Legislative Affairs
Reema Dodin, Senior Counsel to the President Paige Herwig, Counsel to
the Vice President Josh Hsu.

**Doug Jones, Nomination Advisor for Legislative Affairs**

**Doug Jones **is a former United States Senator from the State of
Alabama. He will advise President Biden on navigating the Senate
confirmation process.  The first Democratic Senator from Alabama in a
quarter century, Jones passed dozens of bipartisan bills into law and
started a bipartisan tradition of reading Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.’s
“Letter from a Birmingham Jail” in the Senate chamber.  Jones was
previously the U.S. Attorney for the Northern District of Alabama, where
he prosecuted and won the conviction of two Ku Klux Klan members for the
1963 Birmingham church bombing that killed four African-American girls. 
A native of Fairfield, Alabama, Jones is a graduate of the University of
Alabama and Samford University.

**Minyon Moore, Nomination Advisor for Engagement**

**Minyon Moore** is a top public affairs strategist and organizer tapped
by President Biden to mobilize a nationwide engagement effort focused on
confirmation.  Moore currently leads Dewey Square Group’s State and
Local Affairs and Multicultural Strategies practices, where she helps
clients build coalitions and engage on public policy goals.  Moore
previously served as President Clinton’s Director of White House
Political Affairs and Director the White House Office of Public Liaison,
as well as Chief Operating Officer of the Democratic National Committee.
 Moore coauthored *For Colored Girls Who Have Considered Politics* in
2018.  A Chicago native, she attended the University of Illinois at
Chicago and graduated from the Boston University Digital Filmmaking
Program (DC).

**Ben LaBolt, Nomination Advisor for Communications**

**Ben LaBolt** is a leading communications strategist joining the White
House to advise President Biden on communications and messaging around
the confirmation process.  LaBolt is a partner at Bully Pulpit
Interactive who served as an advisor to the Biden-Harris Transition. He
was previously the national press secretary for President Obama’s
re-election campaign and a White House Assistant Press Secretary. 
LaBolt has two decades of experience advising for national, state, and
local elected officials and campaigns, and served as the White House
spokesman on the team to confirm Justice Sonia Sotomayor and Justice
Elena Kagan.  A native of LaGrange, Illinois, LaBolt is a graduate of
Middlebury College.

\###
