---
category: statements-releases
date: '2022-02-23'
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/02/23/notice-on-on-the-continuation-of-the-national-emergency-with-respect-to-cuba-and-of-the-emergency-authority-relating-to-the-regulation-of-the-anchorage-and-movement-of-vessels/
published_time: 2022-02-23 11:00:55-05:00
title: Notice on on the Continuation of the National Emergency with Respect to Cuba
  and of the Emergency Authority Relating to the Regulation of the Anchorage and Movement
  of Vessels
---
 
On March 1, 1996, by Proclamation 6867, a national emergency was
declared to address the disturbance or threatened disturbance of
international relations caused by the February 24, 1996, destruction by
the Cuban government of two unarmed, United States-registered civilian
aircraft in international airspace north of Cuba.  On February 26, 2004,
by Proclamation 7757, the national emergency was expanded to deny
monetary and material support to the Cuban government.  On
February 24, 2016, by Proclamation 9398, and on February 22, 2018, by
Proclamation 9699, the national emergency was further modified based on
continued disturbances or threatened disturbances of the international
relations of the United States related to Cuba.  The Cuban government
has not demonstrated that it will refrain from the use of excessive
force against United States vessels or aircraft that may engage in
memorial activities or peaceful protest north of Cuba.

Further, the unauthorized entry of any United States-registered vessel
into Cuban territorial waters continues to be detrimental to the foreign
policy of the United States because such entry could facilitate a mass
migration from Cuba.  It continues to be United States policy that a
mass migration from Cuba would endanger United States national security
by posing a disturbance or threatened disturbance of the international
relations of the United States.

Therefore, in accordance with section 202(d) of the National Emergencies
Act (50 U.S.C. 1622(d)), I am continuing the national emergency with
respect to Cuba and the emergency authority relating to the regulation
of the anchorage and movement of vessels set out in Proclamation 6867,
as amended by Proclamation 7757, Proclamation 9398, and Proclamation
9699.

This notice shall be published in the *Federal Register* and transmitted
to the Congress.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.   

THE WHITE HOUSE,  
February 23, 2022.
