---
category: statements-releases
date: '2022-02-23'
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/02/23/president-joseph-r-biden-jr-approves-iowa-disaster-declaration/
published_time: 2022-02-23 11:58:05-05:00
title: President Joseph R. Biden, Jr. Approves Iowa Disaster Declaration
---
 
Today, President Joseph R. Biden, Jr. declared that a major disaster
exists in the State of Iowa and ordered Federal assistance to supplement
state, tribal, and local recovery efforts in the areas affected by
severe storms, straight-line winds, and tornadoes on December 15, 2021.

Federal funding is available to state, tribal, and eligible local
governments and certain private nonprofit organizations on a
cost-sharing basis for emergency work and the repair or replacement of
facilities damaged by the severe storms, straight-line winds, and
tornadoes in the counties of Appanoose, Audubon, Buena Vista, Calhoun,
Cass, Cherokee, Davis, Emmet, Floyd, Franklin, Greene, Guthrie,
Hamilton, Hancock, Howard, Humboldt, Mills, Mitchell, Palo Alto,
Pocahontas, Sac, Van Buren, Webster, Worth, and Wright.

Federal funding is also available on a cost-sharing basis for hazard
mitigation measures statewide.

Deanne Criswell, Administrator, Federal Emergency Management Agency
(FEMA), Department of Homeland Security, named DuWayne Tewes as the
Federal Coordinating Officer for Federal recovery operations in the
affected areas. 

Additional designations may be made at a later date if requested by the
state and warranted by the results of further damage assessments.

FOR FURTHER INFORMATION MEDIA SHOULD CONTACT THE FEMA NEWS DESK AT (202)
646-3272 OR
[FEMA-NEWS-DESK@FEMA.DHS.GOV](mailto:FEMA-NEWS-DESK@DHS.GOV).

\###
