---
category: statements-releases
date: '2022-02-08'
modified_time: 2022-02-08 08:47:06-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/02/08/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-ensuring-future-is-made-in-america/
published_time: 2022-02-08 05:15:00-05:00
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Ensuring Future is Made in\_\
  America"
---
 
*Tritium Announces EV Charger Manufacturing Facility in Tennessee; To
Produce Up To 30,000 Buy America-Compliant Chargers Per Year, Create 500
Jobs*

Since his first day in office, President Biden relentlessly focused on
an industrial strategy to revitalize our manufacturing base, strengthen
critical supply chains, drive down prices, and position U.S. workers and
businesses to compete and lead globally in the 21<sup>st</sup> century.
This whole-of-government effort is leading to a historic recovery in
domestic manufacturing. During President Biden’s first year in office,
the economy added [367,000 manufacturing
jobs](https://fred.stlouisfed.org/series/MANEMP) – the most in nearly 30
years. The U.S. economy grew at the fastest pace in nearly 40 years in
2021, and manufacturing as a share of U.S. GDP has [returned to
pre-pandemic levels](https://fred.stlouisfed.org/series/VAPGDPMA#0).
Manufacturing activity has seen a
[significant](https://www.ismworld.org/supply-management-news-and-reports/reports/ism-report-on-business/pmi/december/)
[expansion](https://www.markiteconomics.com/Public/Home/PressRelease/51d060f7a3314d1b8bb8d948e035d4c7)
every month that President Biden has been in office, consistently above
pre-pandemic levels.

The Build America, Buy America Act in the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law
expands on the Biden-Harris Administration’s work to ensure that the
future is [made in
America](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/01/25/president-biden-to-sign-executive-order-strengthening-buy-american-provisions-ensuring-future-of-america-is-made-in-america-by-all-of-americas-workers/)
by American workers by strengthening and expanding Buy America rules to
all taxpayer-funded infrastructure and public works projects.

**Today, President Biden and Jane Hunter, CEO of Tritium, will announce
that Tritium will break ground on its first U.S. manufacturing facility
in Lebanon, Tennessee.** This facility will house six production lines
that will produce up to 30,000 Buy America-compliant DC Fast Chargers
per year at peak production and create 500 local jobs.

This is the latest of announcements in recent weeks by major companies
announcing investments in U.S. manufacturing and jobs, including
[Intel](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/01/20/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-bringing-semiconductor-manufacturing-back-to-america/),
[General
Motors](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/01/25/statement-by-president-biden-on-general-motors-investment-in-michigan/),
and
[Boeing](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/01/31/readout-of-president-bidens-meeting-with-amir-sheikh-tamim-bin-hamad-al-thani-of-qatar/),
and more than $200 billion in investments in domestic manufacturing of
semiconductors, electric vehicles, aircraft, and batteries announced
since 2021.

In addition to Tritium, EV charging manufacturers large and small are
investing and expanding U.S. operations, driven by the Administration’s
economic strategy, Made in America policies, and the Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law:

-   **Siemens**, which is investing and expanding its U.S. manufacturing
    operations to support electric vehicle infrastructure in America,
    will produce 1 million EV chargers by 2025. This investment, spurred
    by the passage of the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, is the latest
    in the company’s strategic plan to meet accelerating electric
    vehicle charging demand, and expand its U.S. manufacturing
    capabilities.  
      
-   **ABB**, which currently manufactures Buy America-compliant transit
    bus chargers in the U.S., will expand its US EV charging
    manufacturing operations, including Level 2 and DC Fast Chargers,
    over the coming five years, employing hundreds of Americans and
    producing thousands of EV chargers each year.  
      
-   **FreeWire Technologies,** based in Oakland, California, currently
    manufactures Buy America-compliant battery-integrated EV charging
    equipment, and recently announced groundbreaking on a research,
    manufacturing, and testing facility in Newark, California. FreeWire
    currently employs and plans to add more than 200 jobs in
    electrification and clean energy in and around disadvantaged
    communities this year.  
      
-   **Dunamis Clean Energy Partners,** a Black- and woman-owned EV
    charger manufacturer based in Detroit, Michigan, will manufacture
    Level 2 EV chargers and charging connectors in a new production
    facility in Detroit beginning this summer. Dunamis’ training and
    workforce development efforts will focus on underrepresented,
    economically disadvantaged communities most impacted by greenhouse
    gas emissions.

The future of the auto industry is electric, and America can own that
future by building more here at home, creating good-paying jobs in the
process. In August, President Biden set an [ambitious
target](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/08/05/fact-sheet-president-biden-announces-steps-to-drive-american-leadership-forward-on-clean-cars-and-trucks/)
and roadmap to get to 50% of electric vehicle (EV) sale shares in the
U.S. by 2030. The Bipartisan Infrastructure Law included a down payment
on the EV future, with more than $7 billion in funding to secure an
American EV supply chain, from materials processing to battery
manufacturing and recycling, along with $7.5 billion to build out the
first-ever nationwide public EV charging network.

This charging network will provide a convenient, reliable, affordable
and equitable charging experience, with a focus on serving national
highway corridors, rural areas, and underserved communities. It will
also accelerate the adoption of electric vehicles, fight the climate
crisis, and support domestic manufacturing jobs.

Later this week, Department of Transportation Secretary Buttigieg and
Department of Energy Secretary Granholm will announce the state
allocations and guidance for the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law’s
National Electric Vehicle Infrastructure Formula Program, which will
provide $5 billion over five years to help states create a network of EV
charging stations along designated Alternative Fuel Corridors on the
Interstate Highway System.

**The Biden-Harris Administration has already taken action to prepare
for the build-out of the nationwide public EV charging network.**

-   In December, Vice President Harris announced the [EV Charging Action
    Plan](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/12/13/fact-sheet-the-biden-harris-electric-vehicle-charging-action-plan/)
    to outline the steps the Administration is taking to accelerate the
    EV charging investments in the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law.  
      
-   In December, the Department of Energy and the Department of
    Transportation announced the creation of the [Joint Office of Energy
    and
    Transportation](https://www.energy.gov/articles/doe-and-dot-launch-joint-effort-build-out-nationwide-electric-vehicle-charging-network),
    which will support and accelerate deployment of the national EV
    charging network, including by providing technical assistance to
    states as they develop their comprehensive EV charging plans. This
    week, the Joint Office launched
    [DriveElectric.gov](https://driveelectric.gov/) to support the
    states in their planning.  
      
-   Last week, the Department of Transportation released an [EV Rural
    Charging Toolkit](https://www.transportation.gov/rural/ev/toolkit),
    a one-stop resource for rural communities to plan and implement EV
    charging infrastructure projects.

\###
