---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2022-02-25'
modified_time: 2022-02-25 13:39:07-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/02/25/president-biden-nominates-judge-ketanji-brown-jackson-to-serve-as-associate-justice-of-the-u-s-supreme-court/
published_time: 2022-02-25 10:04:58-05:00
title: "President\_Biden Nominates Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson to Serve as Associate\
  \ Justice of the U.S. Supreme\_Court"
---
 
Today, President Biden will announce his intent to nominate [Judge
Ketanji Brown Jackson](/kbj/) as Associate Justice of the U.S. Supreme
Court. Currently a judge on U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit,
Judge Jackson is one of the nation’s brightest legal minds.  If
confirmed, she will be the first Black woman to serve on the Supreme
Court.  
  
Since Justice Stephen Breyer announced his retirement, President Biden
has conducted a rigorous process to identify his replacement.  President
Biden sought a candidate with exceptional credentials, unimpeachable
character, and unwavering dedication to the rule of law.  He also sought
a nominee—much like Justice Breyer—who is wise, pragmatic, and has a
deep understanding of the Constitution as an enduring charter of
liberty.  And the President sought an individual who is committed to
equal justice under the law and who understands the profound impact that
the Supreme Court’s decisions have on the lives of the American
people.  
  
As the longtime Chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, the
President took seriously the Constitution’s requirement that he make
this appointment “by and with the Advice and Consent of the Senate,”
seeking the advice of Senators in both parties.  He studied the
histories and case records of candidates, consulted legal experts, and
met with candidates.  
  
A former clerk for Justice Breyer, Judge Jackson has broad experience
across the legal profession – as a federal appellate judge, a federal
district court judge, a member of the U.S. Sentencing Commission, an
attorney in private practice, and as a federal public defender. Judge
Jackson has been confirmed by the Senate with votes from Republicans as
well as Democrats three times.  

Judge Jackson is an exceptionally qualified nominee as well as an
historic nominee, and the Senate should move forward with a fair and
timely hearing and confirmation.  
  
**Judge Ketanji Brown Jackson**  
Judge Jackson has devoted the majority of her career to serving the
public—as a U.S. Sentencing Commission lawyer and commissioner; as a
federal public defender; and as a federal judge. Judge Jackson currently
serves on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit. From 2013 to
2021, she served as a United States District Judge for the District of
Columbia. She has been confirmed by the Senate on a bipartisan basis
three times – twice as judge and once to serve on the U.S. Sentencing
Commission.  
  
Judge Jackson was born in Washington, D.C. and grew up in Miami,
Florida.  Her parents attended segregated primary schools in the South,
then attended Historically Black Colleges and Universities.  Both
started their careers as public school teachers and became leaders and
administrators in the Miami-Dade County Public Schools.  When Judge
Jackson told her high school guidance counselor she wanted to attended
Harvard, the guidance counselor warned that Judge Jackson should not to
set her sights “so high.” That didn’t stop Judge Jackson. She graduated
*magna cum laude* from Harvard College, then attended Harvard Law
School, where she graduated *cum laude* and was an editor of the
*Harvard Law Review*.

After law school, Judge Jackson served in Justice Breyer’s chambers as a
law clerk.  Judge Jackson served as a federal public defender from 2005
to 2007, representing defendants on appeal who did not have the means to
pay for a lawyer.  If confirmed, she would be the *first* former federal
public defender to serve on the Supreme Court.

Prior to serving as a judge, Judge Jackson followed in the footsteps of
her mentor Justice Breyer by working on the U.S. Sentencing
Commission—an important body, bipartisan by design, that President Biden
fought to create as a member of the U.S. Senate.  Her work there focused
on reducing unwarranted sentencing disparities and ensuring that federal
sentences were just and proportionate.

Judge Jackson lives with her husband, Patrick, who serves as Chief of
the Division of General Surgery at Georgetown University Hospital, and
two daughters, in Washington, D.C.

\###
