---
category: statements-releases
date: '2022-02-25'
modified_time: 2022-02-25 14:23:34-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/02/25/president-biden-announces-key-nominees-3/
published_time: 2022-02-25 15:00:00-05:00
title: President Biden Announces Key Nominees
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Joe Biden announced his intent to nominate
the following individuals to serve as key leaders in his administration:

-   Jay Shambaugh, Nominee for Under Secretary for International
    Affairs, Department of the Treasury
-   William Duncan, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
    Plenipotentiary to the Republic of El Salvador
-   Lesslie Viguerie, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
    Plenipotentiary to the Kyrgyz Republic
-   Denis Udall, Nominee for Trustee of the Morris K. Udall Scholarship
    and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation
-   Tess Udall, Nominee for Trustee of the Morris K. Udall Scholarship
    and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation

**<u>Jay Shambaugh, Nominee for Under Secretary for International
Affairs, Department of the Treasury</u>**

Jay Shambaugh is a Professor of Economics and International Affairs at
the George Washington University. His area of research is macroeconomics
and international economics. His work includes analysis of the
interaction of exchange rate regimes with monetary policy, capital
flows, and trade flows as well as studies of international reserves
holdings, country balance sheet exchange rate exposure, the
cross-country impact of fiscal policy, the crisis in the euro area, and
regional growth disparities.

Shambaugh served as a Member of the White House Council of Economic
Advisors (CEA) from 2015-2017. Earlier, he served on the staff of the
CEA as a Senior Economist for International Economics and then as the
Chief Economist. He also spent three years as the Director of the
Hamilton Project at the Brookings Institution. He is a Research
Associate at the National Bureau of Economic Research and Non-Resident
Senior Fellow in Economic Studies at Brookings. Prior to joining the
faculty at George Washington, Shambaugh taught at Georgetown and
Dartmouth and was a visiting scholar at the International Monetary Fund.
He has published a book on exchange rate regimes, edited a number of
policy related books, and published in many leading economics journals.
Shambaugh received his Ph.D. in economics from the University of
California at Berkeley, an M.A. from the Fletcher School at Tufts, and a
B.A. from Yale University.

**<u>William Duncan, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
Plenipotentiary to the Republic of El Salvador</u>**

William H. Duncan, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service with
the rank of Minister-Counselor, currently serves as a Senior Inspector
in the Office of the Inspector General, U.S. Department of State.
Previously, he served as Consul General in Monterrey, Mexico. Prior to
that, he served as Deputy Chief of Mission at U.S. Embassy Mexico City,
Mexico. A Foreign Service officer since 1992, he has also served at U.S.
Diplomatic Missions in Asunción, Madrid, Baghdad, Mexico City, Bogotá,
San Salvador, and Matamoros. His domestic assignments include the
Offices of Andean Affairs, Mexican Affairs, East African Affairs, and
Central American Affairs, as well as the State Department Operations
Center. Duncan has received numerous performance awards, including a
Presidential Meritorious Service award and four Senior Foreign Service
Performance awards.

A native of Louisiana, Duncan has a Bachelor’s Degree and a Juris Doctor
from the University of Arkansas. He speaks Spanish.

**<u>Lesslie Viguerie, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
Plenipotentiary to the Kyrgyz Republic</u>**

Lesslie Viguerie, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service with the
rank of Minister-Counselor, currently serves as the U.S. Department of
State’s Deputy Assistant Secretary for Central Asian and Pakistan
Affairs within the Bureau of South and Central Asian Affairs.
Previously, he was Deputy Chief of Mission at the U.S. Embassy in
Tashkent, Uzbekistan, and Minister-Counselor for Political Affairs at
the U.S. Embassy in New Delhi, India. In Washington, DC, he was Director
for Europe and Asia in the Bureau of International Narcotics and Law
Enforcement Affairs, and Director for Central Asia in the Bureau of
South and Central Asia Affairs. Previous overseas assignments include
Deputy Political Counselor for the U.S. Embassy in New Delhi, Senior
Director of the Interagency Rule of Law Section for the U.S. Embassy in
Kabul, and External Political Relations Chief for the U.S. Embassy in
Moscow.

A native of Virginia, Viguerie is the recipient of numerous State
Department performance awards, including a Senior Foreign Service
Performance award. Viguerie is a graduate of The George Washington
University (B.A.) and Catholic University of America (J.D.) and is a
member of the District of Columbia Bar Association. He speaks Russian,
Hindi, and Portuguese. 

**<u>Denis Udall, Nominee for Trustee of the Morris K. Udall Scholarship
and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation</u>**

Denis Udall is the Director of Strategic Partnerships with the George
Lucas Education Foundation where he manages the strategic direction of
the Foundation’s priorities related to project based-learning.
Previously, Udall was a program officer at the William and Flora Hewlett
Foundation for eight years where he managed strategy and grantmaking
related to a wide range of areas, including improving the quality of
curriculum and instructional materials, California education policy, and
classroom and school-level formative assessment. During his tenure at
the Walter S. John Foundation, Udall focused on vulnerable, disconnected
youth. Udall has also had a 10-year history with Outward Bound including
helping to found Expeditionary Learning (now EL Education), a national
school improvement network, and the New York City Outward Bound Center,
Outward Bound’s first urban center. Udall is the founder of the North
Oakland Community Charter School. He received an Ed.M. from the Harvard
Graduate School of Education.

**<u>Tess Udall, Nominee for Trustee of the Morris K. Udall Scholarship
and Excellence in National Environmental Policy Foundation</u>**

Tess Udall is a sixth generation Coloradan, born and raised in the
foothills of Boulder. Udall is currently a law student at the University
of Colorado, where she is specializing in environmental law with an
emphasis on native communities and civil rights. While at Colorado Law,
she has interned with the Colorado Attorney General’s Office, served as
a student clerk for Chief Justice Brian Boatright of the Colorado
Supreme Court, and is currently a student attorney in the Getches-Green
Natural Resources and Environmental Law Clinic.

Udall previously served as Chief of Staff to the COO of the Retail and
Rental Division at Vail Resorts. Udall also worked on strategic
partnerships and client relations at Guild Education, a Denver education
startup redefining the future of work. Earlier in her career, Udall
served in the Obama-Biden White House in various roles in the Chief of
Staff’s Office, on the Scheduling and Advance team, and for First Lady
Michelle Obama. Udall graduated from the University of Virginia with a
degree in Foreign Affairs and Sociology.
