---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2022-02-24'
modified_time: 2022-02-24 15:45:05-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/02/24/fact-sheet-joined-by-allies-and-partners-the-united-states-imposes-devastating-costs-on-russia/
published_time: 2022-02-24 14:26:45-05:00
title: "FACT SHEET: Joined by Allies and Partners, the United\_States Imposes Devastating\
  \ Costs on\_Russia"
---
 
* Russia to Face Massive Costs from its Isolation from the Global
Financial and Trade System and Cutting-Edge Technology*

Today, the United States, along with Allies and partners, is imposing
severe and immediate economic costs on Russia in response to Putin’s war
of choice against Ukraine. Today’s actions include sweeping financial
sanctions and stringent export controls that will have profound impact
on Russia’s economy, financial system, and access to cutting-edge
technology. The sanctions measures impose severe costs on Russia’s
largest financial institutions and will further isolate Russia from the
global financial system. With today’s financial sanctions, we have now
targeted all ten of Russia’s largest financial institutions, including
the imposition of full blocking and correspondent and payable-through
account sanctions, and debt and equity restrictions, on institutions
holding nearly 80% of Russian banking sector assets. The unprecedented
export control measures will cut off more than half of Russia’s
high-tech imports, restricting Russia’s access to vital technological
inputs, atrophying its industrial base, and undercutting Russia’s
strategic ambitions to exert influence on the world stage. The impact of
these measures will be significantly magnified due to historical
multilateral cooperation with a wide range of Allies and partners who
are mirroring our actions, inhibiting Putin’s ambition to diversify
Russia’s brittle, one-dimensional economy. The scale of Putin’s
aggression and the threat it poses to the international order require a
resolute response, and we will continue imposing severe costs if he does
not change course.

Putin’s threatening actions and now his unprovoked aggression toward
Ukraine are being met with an unprecedented level of multilateral
cooperation. The United States welcomes the commitments by Australia,
Canada, the European Union, Japan, and the United Kingdom that they will
also take similarly forceful actions to hold Russia accountable –
demonstrating the strength of our partnerships and deepening the impact
on Russia more than any action we could have taken alone. This follows
our joint action earlier this week to impose a first tranche of severe
sanctions on Russia.

As a result of Putin’s war of choice, Russia will face immediate and
intense pressure on its economy, and massive costs from its isolation
from the global financial system, global trade, and cutting-edge
technology. This includes cutting off Russia’s largest bank from the
U.S. financial system – a significant blow to its ability to function
and process global trade. It also includes full blocking sanctions on
Russia’s second largest bank – freezing any of its assets touching the
U.S. financial system.  Russia’s ability to access global markets,
attract investment, and utilize the U.S. dollar will be devastated.

Russia’s economy has already faced intensified pressure in recent weeks;
just today its stock market sunk to its lowest level in four and a half
years, and the ruble weakened beyond its weakest daily settlement price
on record – before additional sanctions were even imposed. With these
new stringent measures, these pressures will further accumulate and
suppress Russia’s economic growth, increase its borrowing costs, raise
inflation, intensify capital outflows, and erode its industrial base.
The United States and our Allies and partners are unified and will
continue to impose costs, forcing Putin to look to other countries that
cannot replicate the financial and technology strengths of Western
markets.  
Today, the United States carried out the following actions:

-   **Severing the connection to the U.S. financial system for Russia’s
    largest financial institution, Sberbank**, including 25
    subsidiaries, by imposing correspondent and payable-through account
    sanctions. This action will restrict Sberbank’s access to
    transactions made in the dollar. Sberbank is the largest bank in
    Russia, holds nearly one-third of the overall Russian banking
    sector’s assets, is heavily connected to the global financial
    system, and is systemically critical to the Russian financial
    system.  
     
-   **Full blocking sanctions on Russia’s second largest financial
    institution, VTB Bank (VTB)**, including 20 subsidiaries. This
    action will freeze any of VTB’s assets touching the U.S financial
    system and prohibit U.S. persons from dealing with them. VTB holds
    nearly one-fifth of the overall Russian banking sector’s assets, is
    heavily exposed to the U.S. and western financial systems, and is
    systemically critical to the Russian financial system.  
     
-   **Full blocking sanctions on three other major Russian financial
    institutions**: Bank Otkritie, Sovcombank OJSC, and Novikombank- and
    34 subsidiaries. These sanctions freeze any of these institutions’
    assets touching the U.S financial system and prohibit U.S. persons
    from dealing with them. These financial institutions play a
    significant a role in the Russian economy.  
     
-   **New debt and equity restrictions on thirteen of the most critical
    major Russian enterprises and entities. **This includes restrictions
    on all transactions in, provision of financing for, and other
    dealings in new debt of greater than 14 days maturity and new equity
    issued by thirteen Russian state-owned enterprises and entities: 
    Sberbank, AlfaBank, Credit Bank of Moscow, Gazprombank, Russian
    Agricultural Bank, Gazprom, Gazprom Neft, Transneft, Rostelecom,
    RusHydro, Alrosa, Sovcomflot, and Russian Railways. These entities,
    including companies critical to the Russian economy with estimated
    assets of nearly $1.4 trillion, will not be able to raise money
    through the U.S. market — a key source of capital and revenue
    generation, which limits the Kremlin’s ability to raise money for
    its activity.  
     
-   **Additional full blocking sanctions on Russian elites and their
    family members: Sergei Ivanov (and his son, Sergei), Nikolai
    Patrushev (and his son **Andrey**), Igor Sechin (and his son Ivan),
    Andrey Puchkov, Yuriy Solviev (and two real estate companies he
    owns), Galina Ulyutina, and Alexander Vedyakhin.** This action
    includes individuals who have enriched themselves at the expense of
    the Russian state, and have elevated their family members into some
    of the highest position of powers in the country. It also includes
    financial figures who sit atop Russia’s largest financial
    institutions and are responsible for providing the resources
    necessary to support Putin’s invasion of Ukraine. This action
    follows up on yesterday’s action targeting Russian elites and their
    family members and cuts them off from the U.S. financial system,
    freezes any assets they hold in the United States and blocks their
    travel to the United States.  
     
-   **Costs on Belarus for supporting a further invasion of Ukraine** by
    sanctioning 24 Belarusian individuals and entities, including
    targeting Belarus’ military and financial capabilities by
    sanctioning two significant Belarusian state-owned banks, nine
    defense firms, and seven regime-connected official and elites. We
    call on Belarus to withdraw its support for Russian aggression in
    Ukraine.  
     
-   **Sweeping restrictions on Russia’s military to strike a blow to
    Putin’s military and strategic ambitions.  **This includes measures
    against military end users, including the Russian Ministry of
    Defense**.** Exports of nearly all U.S. items and items produced in
    foreign countries using certain U.S.-origin software, technology, or
    equipment will be restricted to targeted military end users. These
    comprehensive restrictions apply to the Russian Ministry of Defense,
    including the Armed Forces of Russia, wherever located.  
     
-   **Russia-wide restrictions to choke off Russia’s import of
    technological goods critical to a diversified economy and Putin’s
    ability to project power. **This includes Russia-wide denial of
    exports of sensitive technology, primarily targeting the Russian
    defense, aviation, and maritime sectors to cut off Russia’s access
    to cutting-edge technology**.** In addition to sweeping restrictions
    on the Russian-defense sector, the United States government will
    impose Russia-wide restrictions on sensitive U.S. technologies
    produced in foreign countries using U.S.-origin software,
    technology, or equipment. This includes Russia-wide restrictions on
    semiconductors, telecommunication, encryption security, lasers,
    sensors, navigation, avionics and maritime technologies. These
    severe and sustained controls will cut off Russia’s access to
    cutting edge technology.  
     
-   **Historical multilateral cooperation that serves as a force
    multiplier in restricting more than $50 billion in key inputs to
    Russia- impacting far more than that in Russia’s production. **As a
    result of this multilateral coordination, we will provide an
    exemption for other countries that adopt equally stringent measures.
    Countries that adopt substantially similar export restrictions are
    exempted from new U.S. licensing requirements for items produced in
    their countries. The European Union, Australia, Japan, Canada, New
    Zealand and the United Kingdom, have already communicated their
    plans for parallel actions. This unprecedented coordination
    significantly expands the scope of restrictions on Russia. Further
    engagement with Allies and partners will continue to maximize the
    impact on Russia’s military capabilities.

\###
