---
category: statements-releases
date: '2022-02-11'
modified_time: 2022-02-11 12:26:37-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/02/11/background-press-call-on-u-s-support-for-the-people-of-afghanistan/
published_time: 2022-02-11 12:24:25-05:00
title: "Background Press Call by Senior Administration Officials on U.S. Support for\
  \ the People of\_Afghanistan"
---
 
Via Teleconference

9:06 A.M. EST

  
     MODERATOR:  Thanks, everyone, for joining.  So, today we’re doing a
background press call on the U.S.’s support for the people of
Afghanistan.  This call is on background, attributable to “senior
administration officials.”  And the contents of this call are embargoed
until the end of the call.

For your awareness but not for reporting, our speakers today are
\[senior administration official\] and \[senior administration
official\].

With that, I will turn it over to \[senior administration official\] to
get us started.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Great.  Thanks so much.  And now thanks
for joining — joining this call today to all of you. 

We’re here today to talk about a number of our lines of effort to
address the ongoing economic and humanitarian situation in Afghanistan,
but principally to preview an executive order that the President is
signing, sort of, imminently, as we’re talking, and it will be out at
the end of this call, related to the disposition of Afghan’s central
bank, or DAB, reserves held in the United States. 

Let me start with some quick background that may be familiar to a couple
of you.  When Kabul fell to the Taliban, Afghanistan had over $9 billion
in reserves held in the name of the DAB, or the central bank, outside of
Afghanistan.  And this included $7 billion in reserves held in the
United States, with the rest of the reserves largely being in Germany,
UAE, Switzerland, and a couple of other states. 

The source of these reserves — fundamentally, these reserves, including
the $7 billion in the U.S., are fundamentally kind of the proceeds of
the sustained and significant international assistance that the United
States and other international donors gave to Afghanistan over the past
two decades. 

Over the past several months, the administration has been exploring
potential avenues to enable some of these assets to be freed up to
support the needs of the Afghan people without providing the Taliban
access to the assets while also taking into account ongoing litigation
by U.S. terrorism victims who have legal judgments and legal claims
against the Taliban, including victims of the 9/11 terrorist attacks. 

This morning, Biden — President Biden has signed an executive order that
is blocking the property of the DAB, of the Afghan central bank, held in
the U.S. by U.S. financial institutions, and is requiring that property
to be transferred into a consolidated account held at the Federal
Reserve Bank of New York.

We are then going to seek to facilitate access of $3.5 billion, or
slightly under — just under half of the assets — for the benefit of the
Afghan people and for Afghanistan’s future. 

I want to say, to be very clear, that this — what we’re talking about
today is a process step and a step in a process that might lead to the
unlocking of these funds for the benefit of the Afghan people.  Because
as many of you know, and as I just discussed, a number of U.S. victims
of terrorism, including the 9/11 — some of the 9/11 victims’ families,
brought claims against the Taliban.  And a number of those claimants are
pursuing access to the DAB funds, the Afghan central bank funds, in
federal court.

Because some of the plaintiffs — some of the U.S. plaintiffs currently
have writs of attachment against the DAB assets, the court in New York
is going to need to issue a further decision regarding the scope of
those writs and to authorize any transfer of the funds for the benefit
of the Afghan people. 

And even if $3.5 billion of funds are transferred for the benefit of the
Afghan people, more than $3.5 billion — just over half — of the DAB
assets will remain in the United States, will be subject to ongoing
litigation by U.S. victims of terrorism.  And the U.S. claimants here
are going to have a full opportunity to have their claims heard in U.S.
courts. 

Just to emphasize again: This is one step forward in a process, and no
funds are going to be transferred until the court makes a ruling.  We’re
going to use the next several months while the court is working — while
this is working its way through the court in New York to set up a trust
fund — a third-party trust fund — which will administer the $3.5 billion
we’re seeking to transfer, and ensure that that money is used for the
benefit of the Afghan people. 

We’re still working through the modalities of that trust fund and the
governance structure of that trust fund, as well as the specific uses of
the funds.  And we’re going to take a couple of months here to do that,
because we think it’s very important to be able to consult widely with
our international partners and allies, and with experts on Afghanistan,
for how to appropriately use those funds while ensuring that no benefits
— so that they benefit the Afghan people while ensuring no benefit goes
directly to the Taliban. 

We expect that, ultimately, the resources will be — will be deployed, as
I say, for the benefit of the Afghan people, while minimizing and
ensuring that they are not a direct benefit to the Taliban.  And we’re
also going to ensure that there are going to be appropriate controls in
place over these funds to prevent diversion and illicit activity. 

I do want to emphasize that the — a couple of things about our decision
here.  The first I’d note is that this approach that we’re taking heeds
bipartisan calls from Congress to use the reserves to mitigate the
serious and ongoing crisis in Afghanistan while at the same time
recognizing the importance of ongoing efforts by victims of terrorism
and their families, including victims of the 9/11 attacks, to pursue
other claims in court. 

We also — this action is intended to provide a path forward for the
assets to reach and benefit the Afghan people, keeping them out of the
hands of the Taliban and other malicious actors.

And I do want to actually make one additional point there, because I
think some of the early reporting on this issue has mischaracterized how
these funds are going to be used.  As I said, we are going to be setting
up a trust fund and consulting widely with our allies and partners on
both the governance of the fund and the use.  And we’ve not made
specific decisions about how the funds will be used. 

Obviously, this trust fund, based on the DAB reserves, you know, could
be — would be separate from and distinct from the U.S. government
dollars that we are currently using to provide humanitarian assistance
to the Afghan people that my colleague can speak about — can speak about
in more detail. 

We do think that this executive order will help preserve a substantial
portion of these reserves for the benefit of the Afghan people while
understanding that there are no easy solutions for the current economic
challenges that we see in Afghanistan, which have been exacerbated by
the Taliban’s takeover of the country.

I think I’m going to leave it there and turn it over to \[senior
administration official\] for a few opening remarks, and then we’ll take
some questions. 

Over to you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks very much.  Let me just start by
underscoring a couple of the points that \[senior administration
official\] has made about this transfer being a multi-step process. 

There are still several different things that need to occur across the
U.S. government.  The U.S. Treasury Department will need to provide a
license to authorize transfer of funds for the benefit of the Afghan
people.  The Federal Reserve Bank would conduct its standard due
diligence processes with respect to any transfer.  As you heard earlier,
the third party that would administer these funds and their allowable
uses — this mechanism is being studied, still needs to be determined. 
The administration is working through these questions as we undertake
this action. 

And as you’ve also heard, this action and funds that could be made
available would be separate and distinct from U.S. bilateral
humanitarian assistance.  We’ve talked about our humanitarian assistance
efforts, but I just wanted to go through some of the highlights while,
again, underscoring that this is distinct from the effort that we’re
discussing today. 

As many of you are aware, the United States remains the largest single
donor of humanitarian assistance to Afghanistan.  Last month, the U.S.
announced a new contribution of $308 million in humanitarian assistance
for the people of Afghanistan.  We’ve provided more than $516 million
since August.

And this humanitarian assistance, our bilateral assistance, flows
through independent humanitarian organizations.  It helps provide
lifesaving protection and shelter and healthcare, winterization
assistance, emergency food aid, and other urgent needs. 

The United States has also recently provided the people of Afghanistan
with 1 million additional COVID-19 vaccine doses through COVAX, and that
brings our total donation of vaccines to Afghanistan to 4.3 million
doses. 

In December, the United States led efforts in New York to create a new
Security Council resolution that would establish a carve-out for
humanitarian assistance and activities that support basic human needs —
the carve-out to the United Nations 1988 sanctions regime.  Again, all
of this to enable the continued provision of humanitarian assistance…

At the same time, the Treasury Department issued additional licenses to
make sure that it was very clear what actions are still permissible. 
And the Department of the Treasury have provided broad authorizations,
really since September, to ensure that it’s clear that aid
organizations, NGOs, other international organizations can continue
their lifesaving work. 

We’re working closely with the U.N. on the World Bank’s

transferring out of substantial funds from the Afghanistan
Reconstruction Trust Fund to U.N. organizations.  There was a $280
million tranche that was provided to the U.N.  And we’re very proud to
be the largest funder of U.N. operations in Afghanistan. 

All of these efforts underscore the complications of getting assistance
directly to the Afghan people without benefiting the Taliban. 

And I will stop there.

MODERATOR:  Great, thank you. 

Operator, could you please queue up the directions to ask a question
please? 

Q    Hey, guys, thanks for doing this.  I was wondering if you could
just talk about what the legal justification in the executive order is. 
I know that there has been talk that it could be a provision of IEEPA or
the Federal Reserve Act, and so, what you settled on there.   And then
maybe talk through to what extent the concern that this action would
make other governments, considering parking assets in the U.S. in the
future, take pause since this is sort of, kind of, a unique and
unprecedented step. 

Those are my two.  Thanks.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, no, I think they’re both — both
great questions.  On the first one: So, the executive order is going to
be issued pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act —
IEEPA.  You’ll see it post I think, basically, at the end of this call;
it’s scheduled to go up at 9:30.  And that’s a statute that is, you
know, regularly used in a broad number of different contexts in order
to, you know, freeze — freeze assets. 

Obviously, this context is, in certain ways, unique.  And, you know, we
think that this is an appropriate way to kind of freeze the funds in
place and ultimately — you know, again, if a court allows us — be able
to move some of them to a trust fund for the benefit of the Afghan
people.

I will say that, legally, you know, this is a complex set of issues,
because we obviously have the executive order part of it.  We have — or
we’re working with — you know, we’re — there’s obviously the court case
in New York.  We also have had to identify, you know, other mechanisms —
or sort of related mechanisms beyond the executive order to get the
Federal Reserve to a place where it could — again, if allowed by the
court — actually release the funds into our planned trust fund. 

So I would say this has been quite a legally complicated road.  I think
what we would say about it is, you know, we think it is very important
both to be able to, you know, take $3.5 billion here and ensure that
those will be used for the benefit of the Afghan people — and I think
we’ve identified a legal mechanism to do that — while also ensuring that
the U.S. plaintiffs, you know, have a chance to have their day in court
and to have their case heard in court.  So it’s been a legally
complicated road to get there. 

I don’t want to, you know, walk you through every sort of detail of the
dozens — or hundreds of hours of legal work, I think, that we’ve put in
this.  But I do think we feel comfortable — quite comfortable that we
have acted consistently and are acting consistently, obviously, with
U.S. law.

On the broader risk: I mean, look, I think this is an unprecedented
situation.  We have $7 billion of assets in the United States that are
owned by a country where there is no government that we recognize —
there’s no government recognized. 

I think, you know, we are acting responsibly to ensure that a portion of
that money can be used to benefit the people of the country — of the
country, you know, where this money — you know, for where this money was
given, right?  This is ultimately charitable proceeds.  I think we’re
acting responsibly to ensure that these proceeds of international
donations can be used to benefit the Afghan people.  And we’re also
acting responsibly. 

You know, we have an independent judiciary and legal system here.  And
we’re acting responsibly so that U.S. claimants who have, you know,
claims that they have brought into court have a chance to have their day
in court. 

So, I actually think international partners will look at this as us
acting very responsibly to kind of deal within our legal system and the
purposes — the original purposes of this money to help effect that those
purposes are served.

Q    Hi, thanks for doing this call.  I guess my question is similar to
Justin’s, but rather than the legal justification, I kind of want to
want to know: How would you respond to criticism or, I guess, moral
justification that since this money does not belong to the Taliban, but
actually to the Afghan people who were arguably, by and large, not
involved in the 9/11 attacks — so, why should the people of Afghanistan
pay for the price — pay the price for these attacks?  Thanks.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  So, what I would — I would say here is:
Look, you know, as I just said, we have a — obviously, as you all know,
we have an independent judiciary.  We have, you know, people — U.S.
terrorism victims who have claims against the Taliban, who have claims
in court, who have, as I said at the beginning, actually obtained a writ
against the funds at the Federal Reserve.  I think that, you know, their
claims — I’m not an expert in, kind of, their claims; I think that those
are complicated. 

But these — you know, they have, and a judge has already given, a writ
in our system in order to freeze those funds in place so that these
claimants can have their case heard.  And I think that — you know,
consistent with our country’s law and values — when somebody thinks that
they have a legitimate claim and a good judge is hearing that and
freezing some of the funds, that’s obviously something we have to — we
have to take seriously.  I think what we have done today — and we think,
you know, should be taken seriously. 

I think what we’ve done today is tried to take a step to ensure that
while that litigation is playing out, while those claimants are having
their day in court, we are also — which, you know, could take quite some
time ultimately.  We are also taking steps to ensure that, you know,
$3.5 billion here can be transferred to a trust fund — again, with the
court’s permission to be used for the benefit of the Afghan people. 

So, what I would hope people would say is that we are doing — we are
taking a step to try to make sure that, you know, some of this money can
be used for the benefit of the Afghan people while respecting the legal
process. 

We have one other note on that.  I’d note that — you know, we talked
about the $7 billion in the U.S.; there are $2 billion of Afghan
reserves outside the U.S. held in other countries.  I would note: I
believe the U.S. is the first and only country that is holding any of
the Afghan reserves, that is taking any step to try to free them up for
the benefit of the Afghan people. 

And so, I’d also sort of ask, you know, people who look at what we’re
doing to maybe — and sort of appreciate what we’re doing — to maybe, you
know, turn to some of the other countries to see if maybe they’d be able
to take a step similar to what we’re doing, given that, as I said, I
think we’re the only country to take any efforts to try to make these —
some of these funds available for the benefit of the Afghan people.

Q    Yes, hello.  Thank you.  Some countries — South Korea and others —
have tried to unfreeze assets, but the understanding has been that the
United States has asked them not to.  Will you expect that others will
then move to take care of this?

And on where the assets come from, is that all aid money?  Wasn’t it —
isn’t it money from Afghan exports and other transactions by the Afghan
government that legitimately belonged to them that was not specifically
foreign assistance?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  So, on the — on the question that you
just raised — the second question you raised, Karen: So, you know, it’s
hard to trace — believe me, we’ve tried it — it’s hard to trace, sort
of, a specific dollar of reserves to a specific — you know, a specific
transaction.   
  
     But what we broadly assess is that if you look at the kind of
budget of the Afghan government, where the Afghan government got its
revenues — and these are ultimately, like, the proceeds of the Afghan
government revenues — it was something north of 80 percent coming from
foreign assistance dollars.  
  
     So, I think — you know, again, not being able to trace every dollar
— we feel confident that the overwhelming majority of these funds are
the proceeds of international assistance.  
  
     In terms of unblocking assets, you know, I would say we have, I
think, been clear in our engagement with allies and partners, both — and
publicly and with, you know, NGOs and others.  Look, you know, the
Taliban is subject to sanctions; a number of individual Taliban
officials are subject to sanctions.  But as you have seen, we have been
issuing licenses to try to ensure that sanctions are not impeding, you
know, humanitarian and other key activities in Afghanistan.   
  
     And I think, you know, we have been having conversations with other
governments about, you know, ways in which they can take steps in order
to make sure that sanctions aren’t standing in the way of addressing the
situation in Afghanistan.  
  
     I’d also just note: Here, obviously, we are talking about, you
know, central bank reserves, and that might be different from — which
are owned by the state — and that might be different from, you know,
assets that are frozen that were held by individuals or particular
companies.  
  
     Q    Hey, guys.  Thanks for doing this.  Can I just ask some
pointed questions, frankly, from both sides of the argument?  This is —
a form of this has already been asked, but there are those who are
arguing that you are using the court case as a shield to — and that you
should be able to send all of this money back to Afghanistan, given the
absolute catastrophic humanitarian condition in which parents are
selling their own children, so how can you not give more money to the
people of Afghanistan.  
  
     And the other side of the argument is: Yes, you will try to avoid
supporting the Taliban, but the reality is that any success in
preventing a humanitarian crisis will be the Taliban’s success, the
Taliban will inevitably siphon off money, even that goes through NGOs. 
So, if you could answer those, kind of, pointed questions.  Thanks.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, so, first of all, I’d say: We
have in no way been using or no way think of ourselves as using the
court case as a shield.  I mean, the first thing I’d note is, like,
these — as I said, these funds are currently subject to a writ of
attachment.  And actually, no distribution of the funds at all, of any
kind, can happen without the authorization of the court in New York
that’s hearing the claims against the Taliban.   
  
     So, sort of an idea that — some idea that we could just, you know,
ignore the — you know, ignore the litigation in New York is just flatly
wrong.  I mean, we have — we have to deal with it; they have a writ of
attachment.  We also think it is important that Americans have their
ability to be heard in court.  
  
     What I would say to the Americans who are having their day heard in
court is: You know, if we are able to move this money into an
international trust fund, we are going to be ensuring that there are
very robust controls in place, so this is not going to be going to the
Taliban; it’s going to be being used for the benefit of the Afghan
people.  
  
     And I’d note that, you know, there are still going to be slightly
over $3.5 billion — again, assuming the court lets us act here — to be
able to be — you know, for them to be able to have their day in court.  
  
     You know, in terms of the, kind of, immediate crisis — look,
because we have to go through a judicial process here, it is going to be
at least a number of months before we can move any of this money,
right?  So this money isn’t going to be available over the next couple
of months regardless — so, regardless of amount, regardless of what we
might want to do.   
  
     And I think that is why you heard \[senior administration
official\] talk so much about what are the dollars we as the U.S.
government are providing, including more than $500 million just since
August, to address the humanitarian needs of the Afghan people.  
  
     And so, what I would want to convey to the people of Afghanistan
is: Look, we are trying to take some of this money to put in trust for
the benefit of the Afghan people.  We, as the American government, are
also spending from our own taxpayer dollars — you know, just since
August, more than $500 million — to address the immediate humanitarian
needs, you know, even as we have to go through quite some lengthy
process in order to get some of these reserves put into a trust for the
benefit of the Afghan people.

Q    Hey, thanks.  Thanks so much for doing this.  I just wanted to,
kind of, like re- — I guess, go — kind of related to some of the earlier
questions.  You had mentioned how international partners would see
this.  I wanted to ask how extensively have you consulted with outside
partners, international allies, also international group — who may be,
you know, helping distribute some of these funds — about this plan to
kind of hold back half of the money and potentially use it for resources
in the United States, which were not the original intentions.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Well, so, I’d start, again, with the
point I made earlier, which is there are $2 billion in Afghan central
bank funds held in, you know, countries like Germany and the UK.  And
I’m not aware that any of those countries have taken any efforts at all
to — so far, at least to the extent we have — in order to try to, you
know, make some of those funds available for the benefit of the Afghan
people.  
  
     So, I think — you know, as I said earlier, I think allies and
partners will understand and see that we are doing, within our legal
system, what we can, in a way that other countries are not, in order to
make some of these funds available for the benefit of the Afghan
people.  
  
     I also think countries understand.  Look, you know, whether these
claimants in the U.S. have a legal right to these funds, that’s a very
complicated issue under legal — you know, under U.S. law.  They’ve
obviously got, you know, enough of a — enough substance to convince a
court to put a writ of attachment on the funds.  
  
     I think our allies and partners, you know, fully understand we have
an independent judiciary that Americans have the right to bring claims;
they have the right, and it’s important that they have the right to have
their claims heard in court.  
  
     So, again, I think we have discussed what we’re doing with our key
allies and partners.  We have — we have had those discussions.  And I
think our allies and partners are going to, you know, as I say,
understand that we have a legal system; within our legal system, we are
trying to make sure that, again, unlike other countries, we are moving
to unblock funds, to make them available for the benefit of the Afghan
people, while also respecting we have U.S. claimants who I think have —
you know, have to have their day and their right to be heard in court.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  And another point on the additional
countries that hold reserves: We’ve been in close contact with them. 
They’re also facing a number of their own legal challenges.  This is a
complicated situation for — it’s not the exact same kind of legal
challenge, but they have their own sort of regulations and things they
need to work through in their systems.  
  
     So, it’s been a complicated question for each of the countries. 
But we are in touch and will remain in touch as we take this action.  
  
     The other point, in terms of international coordination: We are in
close touch, and there’s a long history of close donor coordination with
so many countries that have worked together over many years to support
Afghanistan and the Afghan people.  And we fully anticipate that there
will be significant, sort of, multilateral components to a mechanism
that is built to determine the disposition of these funds.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thank you guys so much.  Now, this is a
complicated issue — a complicated issue for reporting, I know, because
there are just a lot of ins and outs.  And so, I really appreciate you
guys taking the time with us this morning.  
  
     And please reach out to \[moderator\] if you have any follow-up
questions.  
  
     MODERATOR:  Yeah.  Thanks, \[senior administration official\]. 
Thanks, everyone, for joining.  The embargo is lifted.  If you have any
questions, please feel free to reach out.  Thanks.  Have a good day.  
  
9:36 A.M. EST
