---
category: statements-releases
date: '2022-02-08'
modified_time: 2022-02-08 16:12:46-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/02/08/remarks-by-president-biden-on-rebuilding-our-manufacturing-to-make-more-in-america/
published_time: 2022-02-08 16:12:45-05:00
title: Remarks by President Biden on Rebuilding Our Manufacturing to Make More in
  America
---
 
South Court Auditorium

Eisenhower Executive Office Building

2:22 P.M. EST

     THE PRESIDENT:  Jane, thank you.  Thank you very, very much.  I
want to thank Secretary Granholm and Buttigieg, and Gina McCarthy, for
being here today.  
  
     And Congressman Jim Cooper, an old friend who did an awful lot to
get this to — get this to go in Tennessee, who’s here today.  And
Governor Bill Lee of Tennessee — he deserves credit as well.  He wasn’t
able to be here today, but he worked hard to help make this happen. 
Another example of what America can achieve when we come together —
Democrats and Republicans — to get things done.  
  
     The new manufacturing facility Tritium is — that it’s announced
today is more than just great news for Tennessee.  Yes, it’s going to
create more than 500 good-paying jobs in Tennessee, but it’s going to
deliver greater dignity and a little more breathing room to workers and
their families.  And it’s going to have a ripple effect beyond — and far
beyond one state.

     This is great news for workers across the country, for an economy,
and, frankly, for the planet.

     When we wrote the — and passed the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law,
we included $7.5 billion for electric vehicle chargers, like the one
Jane brought along today.  It’s a little thing.  You can see.

     But all kidding aside, Secretaries Granholm and Buttigieg have been
helping lead this effort from our administration.  And later this week,
we’re going to announce a state-by-state allocation for $5 billion of
the funding for these chargers.  So states can start making plans to
build out what will become a national network of electric vehicle
chargers.

     Tritium’s new facility is going to produce up to 30,000 of these
chargers every year.

     They’ll use American parts, American iron, American steel.  And
they’ll be installed up and down the highways and corridors in our
communities all across the country by union workers from the IBEW and
the electric work- — and the electrical workers union.  So, the benefits
you’re going to — ripple thousands of miles away in every direction.

     And these jobs will multiply in steel mills, small parts suppliers,
construction sites all over the country in the years to come.  And it’s
going to help ensure that the American — America leads the world in
electric vehicles.

     China has been the — leading that race up to now.  But this is
about to change, because America is building convenient, reliable,
equitable, national public charging networks.  So wherever you live,
charging an electric vehicle will be quick and easy.  And the foundation
will help build — help American automakers set the pace for electric
vehicles, which means even more good-paying jobs producing batteries,
materials, and parts.

     That’s also going to help save hundreds of billions of gallons of
gasoline over time, serving — saving an average driver who chooses an
electric vehicle up to $1,000 every year on fuel; making our country
more economically competitive, lowering air pollution, and keeping
families healthier as we tackle climate — the climate crisis.

     Here’s the — here’s the key point.  Announcements like this don’t
happen by accident.  They require a vision and a commitment to build a
future that’s made in America.

     I made it clear from day one: When the federal government spends
taxpayers’ dollars, we’re going to buy American: American products made
in America, including American component parts.  That’s why I
established a Made in America Office at the White House led by Celeste
Drake.  She’s here on the stage.  Where is Celeste?  There is she is. 
Celeste Drake.  To ensure that the trillion dollars we’re investing in
infrastructure is spent on American workers and American manufacturing. 

On the way over here, by the way, I was talking with Gina.  We were
talking about — we have how many vehicles in a fleet, Gina, roughly?

ADVISOR MCCARTHY:  Six hundred thousand.

THE PRESIDENT:  We have 600,000 federal vehicles that we — the federal
government owns.  They’re going to all end up being electric vehicles —
electric vehicles.  That’s what it means to finally make Buy in America
a reality and not an empty promise.

     It means bringing manufacturing jobs back and building supply
chains here at home so we have better jobs <s>at</s> \[and\] lower
prices.  And it means a federal government that just doesn’t give lip
service to Buy American but actually takes action, investing in
innovation and manufacturing, which powers up companies like Tritium to
do what they do best: create great products and good-paying jobs.

     That’s been my approach from day one.  And now we’re seeing the
results — beginning to see the results.

     In my first full year as President, the economy created 6.6 million
new jobs.  6.6 million.  That’s never happened before in American
history.  And that includes 375,000 manufacturing jobs.   2021 saw the
highest increase in U.S. manufacturing jobs in nearly 30 years.

     And let me give you one example.  A few weeks ago, the CEO of
Intel, Pat Gelsinger, came to the White House to announce a new $20
billion semiconductor factory that they’re going to — they call it a
“campus” — outside of Columbus, Ohio.  I had the two senators from Ohio
here standing with me — one Republican, one Democrat.  Creating 7,000
construction jobs at that facility and 3,000 permanent jobs running the
facility with an average salary — running the facility at $135,000 a
year.

     Those semiconductors, microchips power virtually everything in our
everyday lives: cellphones, automobiles, refrigerators, the Internet,
the electric grid.  Without semiconductors, those things are not —
cannot fully function.

     So, the spin-off of this is that we’re going to create thousands of
additional jobs helping build America’s products here in America,
manufacturing automobiles, appliances, and so much more.  And it’s going
to help ease inflation. 

One of the reasons automobiles cost so much is — they’re responsible for
one-fifth of the recent inflation — is because they lack
semiconductors.  They’re not able to build them quick enough so the
price goes up higher because there’s fewer to sell.

     Intel’s announcement helps us fix that problem.  And Intel isn’t
alone.

     Since 2021, companies have announced investments totaling more than
$200 billion in domestic manufacturing here in America, from iconic
companies like GM and Ford building out new electric vehicle production;
to Tesla, our nation’s largest electric vehicle manufacturer; to
innovative younger companies like Rivian, building electric trucks, or
Proterra, building electric buses, which I saw at a virtual tour last
year when I met with the CEO virtually.  And they really impressed me. 

     These companies joining Intel, bringing microchip manufacturing
back to America after decades of decay — from Texas Instruments to
Samsung in Texas, to TSMC in Arizona.

     We’re seeing the beginnings of an American manufacturing comeback. 
This is not hyperbole.  This is real.  This is genuine.  This is real.

     You’ve heard me say all along when I was running and since I’ve
gotten here: Amer- — the world is at an inflection point.  Things are
going to change in big ways.  And this is one of those transition
moments.

Two weeks ago, I went to Pittsburgh, where the Union Pacific Railroad
announced the largest purchase of American-made battery ec- — battery
ele- — batter — excuse me, electric-battery locomotives in history,
built by American workers in Erie, Pennsylvania.

     And these locomotives aren’t only going to be sold here in America
and take a hell of a lot of — heck of a lot of pollution out of the
air.  They’re going to be sold in countries around the world that are
going to be buying them, just like they’re going to buy American-made
electric cars.

     And just like we heard last week when Boeing announced $20 billion
— a $20 billion bill — $20 billion deal right here in the White House to
sell American-made aircraft to one of the major airlines in the Middle
East, Qatar Airways, supporting tens of thousands of good-paying
American manufacturing jobs.

     So, we’re seeing the same thing in planes, trains, and automobiles.

     Other countries recognize what’s happening here.  They want to buy
American as well.  They’re ready to bet on America and American workers
— workers who built the middle class, earning good pay and benefits and
the right to organize.

      
     Today’s announcement is part of the drumbeat of jobs resurgence
like anything — more than anything we’ve seen before.

     And, by the way, the House of Representatives passed a bill on
Friday providing over $90 billion for research and development,
manufacturing, and all those elements of the supply chain needed to
produce end products right here in America.  We can keep delivering more
announcements like this one.  And the House and Senate are working to
deliver a final bill to my desk.

     The bottom line is the United States is in a position to outcompete
the world once again.  And I look forward to working with governors —
Republican and Democrat — to keep that drumbeat going.

     So, let’s keep coming together to invest in the backbone of
America, in American manufacturing, and the workers who make it run,
because when we do, there’s no limit to what we can achieve.  None.

     Thank you.  And may God protect our troops.  We’ve got a lot to
look forward to.  Thank you very much.   

2:31 P.M. EST
