---
category: statements-releases
date: '2022-02-23'
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/02/23/a-letter-to-the-speaker-of-the-house-of-representatives-and-the-president-of-the-senate-on-the-continuation-of-the-national-emergency-with-respect-to-cuba-and-of-the-emergency-authority-relating-to-t/
published_time: 2022-02-23 11:01:00-05:00
title: "A Letter to the Speaker of the House of Representatives and the President\
  \ of the Senate, on the Continuation of the National Emergency with Respect to Cuba\
  \ and of the Emergency Authority Relating to the Regulation of the Anchorage and\
  \ Movement of\_Vessels"
---
 
Dear Madam Speaker: (Dear Madam President:)  
  
Section 202(d) of the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1622(d))
provides for the automatic termination of a national emergency unless,
within 90 days prior to the anniversary date of its declaration, the
President publishes in the *Federal Register* and transmits to the
Congress a notice stating that the emergency is to continue in effect
beyond the anniversary date.  In accordance with this provision, I have
sent to the *Federal Register* for publication the enclosed notice
stating that the national emergency with respect to Cuba that was
declared on March 1, 1996, in Proclamation 6867, as amended by
Proclamation 7757 on February 26, 2004, Proclamation 9398 on February
24, 2016, and Proclamation 9699 on February 22, 2018, is to continue in
effect beyond March 1, 2022.  
  
There remains a need to continue this national emergency, based on a
disturbance or threatened disturbance of the international relations for
the United States related to Cuba.  The unauthorized entry of any United
States-registered vessel into Cuban territorial waters continues to be
detrimental to the foreign policy of the United States.  
  
The unauthorized entry of vessels subject to the jurisdiction of the
United States into Cuban territorial waters is currently a violation of
Federal law.  Further, the unauthorized entry of United
States-registered vessels into Cuban territorial waters continues to be
detrimental to United States foreign policy and counter to the purpose
of Executive Order 12807, which is to ensure, among other things, safe,
orderly, and legal migration.  The possibility of large-scale
unauthorized entries of United States-registered vessels into Cuban
territorial waters would disturb the international relations of the
United States regarding Cuba by allowing for or providing the means to
facilitate a mass migration of Cuban nationals and threatening our
national security.  
  
Therefore, I have determined that it is necessary to continue the
national emergency with respect to Cuba and the emergency authority
relating to the regulation of the anchorage and movement of vessels set
out in Proclamation 6867, as amended by Proclamation 7757, Proclamation
9398, and Proclamation 9699.

Sincerely,  
  
  
                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
