---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2022-02-10'
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/02/10/prices-week-fact-sheet-the-biden-harris-plan-to-boost-the-capacity-of-the-economy-and-lower-costs-for-working-families/
published_time: 2022-02-10 11:10:12-05:00
title: "PRICES WEEK FACT SHEET: The Biden-\u2060Harris Plan to Boost the Capacity\
  \ of the Economy and Lower Costs for Working\_Families"
---
 
*The Administration this week is highlighting its comprehensive strategy
to boost the capacity of the economy and lower costs for working
families – from addressing supply chain bottlenecks, to making our
economy more competitive, and pushing for legislation to ease everyday
costs and make more in America. The President will speak to that this
afternoon in Virginia, where he’ll discuss how we can lower the price of
prescription drugs for working Americans.*

Thanks in part to President Biden’s American Rescue Plan, the U.S. is in
the midst of a historic economic recovery. In 2021, we saw the strongest
monthly job growth ever recorded, the largest decline in unemployment
ever recorded, the strongest economic growth in four decades, and an
estimated nearly 40 percent decline in child poverty. Despite this
progress, the U.S., along with much of the world, is grappling with
elevated price increases brought on by the pandemic. These price
increases hit families’ budgets, and create anxiety about the future.
While experts expect inflation to moderate in the months ahead,
President Biden is taking action now.

President Biden’s plan starts with respecting the Federal Reserve’s
independence to keep elevated price increases from becoming entrenched.
The Federal Reserve provided extraordinary support during the crisis.
Given the strength of our recovery, and the pace of recent price
increases, it is appropriate for them to recalibrate that support.

Beyond the Fed, the President believes that the most important thing he
and Congress can do is build a more productive economy – with greater
capacity to deliver goods and services to the American people. He does
not agree with those who believe that the only solution is to make
working families that are the backbone of our country poorer. Instead,
the President is focused on building a growing economy, where folks have
more choices, where more small businesses can compete, and where more
goods get to market faster and cheaper. That means expanding the
supply-side of the economy, over the short-, medium-, and long-term.
Specifically, the Biden-Harris Administration is:  

**<u>Fixing our supply chains and infrastructure, and making more in the
United States</u>**.

The Administration is restoring American manufacturing and rebuilding
American infrastructure, so we can make more here at home and move goods
more efficiently and reliably through the economy. In February, the
President issued an Executive Order to strengthen our supply chains, and
in June established the [Supply Chain Disruptions Task
Force](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/06/08/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-supply-chain-disruptions-task-force-to-address-short-term-supply-chain-discontinuities/)
to bring a whole-of-government approach to addressing the immediate
disruptions linked to the global pandemic. The [President Biden’s
historic Bipartisan Infrastructure
Law](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/bipartisan-infrastructure-law/) will
provide the funding needed to close vulnerabilities and improve
efficiency at our ports, roads, waterways, and railroads.  The
Administration is focused on addressing challenges and boosting capacity
in three key sectors: transportation, semiconductors, and agriculture.

-   In **the transportation sector**, in 2021 the Ports of Los Angeles
    and Long Beach—which process 40 percent of the nation’s
    containerized imports—broke their 2018 record for annual
    containerized imports by 13 percent. After working with the
    Biden-Harris Administration, they also reduced the number of
    containers sitting on the docks for 9 days or more by 60 percent.
    Thanks in part to the Administration’s efforts, American retailers’
    shelves were well stocked for the record-breaking holiday season and
    97 to 99 percent of consumers received their packages on time or
    with minimal delays. The Administration’s [Ports Action
    Plan](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/11/09/fact-sheet-the-biden-harris-action-plan-for-americas-ports-and-waterways/)
    and a [Trucking Action
    Plan](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/12/16/fact-sheet-the-biden-%E2%81%A0harris-administration-trucking-action-plan-to-strengthen-americas-trucking-workforce/)
    are helping American port operators move a record amount of goods
    from ships to shelves as quickly as possible and connect more
    Americans to good jobs in the trucking industry. And by investing in
    our longer-term infrastructure needs, the Bipartisan Infrastructure
    Law will help make our transportation system more effective and make
    it easier and cheaper for businesses to move goods to market.  
      
-   In **the** **semiconductor sector**, the Administration is [working
    to expand U.S. chip manufacturing
    capacity](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/01/21/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-bringing-semiconductor-manufacturing-back-to-america-2/),
    bring back American manufacturing jobs, address the chip shortage,
    and ensure we are not exposed to these disruptions again. Auto
    inflation – caused in part by the global semiconductor shortage –
    has caused around a third of the core inflation we’ve seen in the
    last year. But the Administration is making important progress. In
    just the last few weeks, Intel and GM announced they are building
    new chip and EV manufacturing plants right here in the United
    States.  To accelerate this progress, the President is urging
    Congress to pass legislation to strengthen U.S. research and
    development and manufacturing for critical supply chains, including
    semiconductors.  
      
-   In **the agriculture and meat processing sector**, the
    Administration is providing financing to [expand independent food
    processing capacity and support
    workers](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/01/03/fact-sheet-the-biden-harris-action-plan-for-a-fairer-more-competitive-and-more-resilient-meat-and-poultry-supply-chain/);
    strengthening rules that protect farmers, ranchers, and consumers;
    and expanding access to affordable, high-quality food for those in
    need, including in
    [schools](https://www.usda.gov/media/press-releases/2022/01/07/usda-announces-increased-funding-support-school-meals-and-help).

**<u>Fighting to lower kitchen table costs</u>**.

Even before the COVID-19 pandemic, too many working families felt the
squeeze of an ever-increasing cost of living. President Biden’s Build
Back Better Agenda is the most significant effort to bring down costs
and strengthen the middle class in generations. In addition to major
investments in children and care, climate, and health, the framework
includes targeted investments that will help lower the costs families
pay right away. For example, Build Back Better will lower the cost of
health care, child care, and prescription drugs and provide access to
free preschool for all three and four year-olds. These investments are
paid for, and will increase our economy’s capacity over time by getting
more people working and lowering costs families struggle with. President
Biden is focused on working with Congress to enact these proposals as
quickly as possible.

­­

**<u>Protecting consumers and promoting competition</u>**.

The decades-long trend of corporate consolidation in many sectors of our
economy has left consumers, innovators, and our economy worse off. Lack
of competition drives up prices for consumers, with families paying
higher prices for prescription drugs, hearing aids, internet service,
and more.  President Biden is focused on promoting competition to make
our economy more productive, boost growth and innovation, and generate
lower prices and more options for consumers. In July, the President
[signed a historic Executive
Order](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/07/09/fact-sheet-executive-order-on-promoting-competition-in-the-american-economy/)
establishing a whole-of-government effort to boost competition in the
American economy. The Order includes 72 initiatives by more than a dozen
federal agencies to promptly tackle some of the most pressing
competition problems across our economy. For example, in October the
Food and Drug Administration released a new proposed rule that would
make it possible for hearing aids to be sold over the counter without a
prescription, which is expected to save people hundreds of dollars.  
  

\###
