---
category: statements-releases
date: '2022-02-15'
modified_time: 2022-02-15 11:24:47-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/02/15/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-advances-cleaner-industrial-sector-to-reduce-emissions-and-reinvigorate-american-manufacturing/
published_time: 2022-02-15 05:00:00-05:00
title: "Fact Sheet: Biden- \u2060 Harris Administration Advances Cleaner Industrial\
  \ Sector to Reduce Emissions and Reinvigorate American Manufacturing"
---
 
*New Pro-Climate, Pro-Worker Actions Create Jobs and Harness the
Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, Federal Purchasing Power, and Trade
Policy*

Today, the Biden-Harris Administration is announcing new actions across
agencies to support American leadership on clean manufacturing—including
low-carbon production of the steel and aluminum we need for electric
vehicles, wind turbines, and solar panels, and the clean concrete we
need to upgrade our transportation infrastructure. These actions will
create more good-paying jobs and follow on a historic comeback for
American factories, with
[367,000](https://fred.stlouisfed.org/series/MANEMP) manufacturing jobs
added during President Biden’s first year in office, the most in nearly
30 years. Further strengthening our industrial base will revitalize
local economies, lower prices for consumers, provide more pathways to
the middle class through union jobs, and boost American competitiveness
in global markets.   
  
The industrial sector is also central to tackling the climate crisis, as
it is currently responsible for nearly a third of domestic greenhouse
gas emissions. By helping manufacturers use clean energy, efficiency
upgrades, and other innovative technologies to reduce emissions, the
Administration is supporting cleaner industry that can produce the next
generation of products and materials for a net-zero economy. These same
manufacturing improvements will also protect public health, by reducing
releases of air and water pollutants and toxic materials that
disproportionately harm low-income households and communities of
color.  
  
Today’s announcements will clean up industrial processes that have long
been challenging sources of pollution; create good-paying, union jobs
across American manufacturing; and use domestic procurement and global
trade policy to reward clean, American-made materials:

-   The Department of Energy is launching **major clean hydrogen
    initiatives of the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law**: $8 billion for
    Regional Clean Hydrogen Hubs that will create jobs to expand use of
    clean hydrogen in the industrial sector and beyond; $1 billion for a
    Clean Hydrogen Electrolysis Program to reduce costs of hydrogen
    produced from clean electricity; and $500 million for Clean Hydrogen
    Manufacturing and Recycling Initiatives to support equipment
    manufacturing and strong domestic supply chains.  
-   The Council on Environmental Quality and White House Office of
    Domestic Climate Policy are establishing the **first-ever Buy Clean
    Task Force**, which will harness the federal government’s massive
    purchasing power to support low-carbon materials made in American
    factories. The General Services Administration and the Department of
    Transportation are also announcing new efforts to promote use of
    l**ow-carbon materials in construction projects funded by the
    Bipartisan Infrastructure Law**, and the State Department and U.S.
    Special Presidential Envoy for Climate are securing corporate
    purchasing commitments for low-carbon materials and technologies
    through the **First Movers Coalition**.  
-   The Administration is advancing **carbon-based trade policies to
    reward American manufacturers of clean steel and aluminum**. Working
    with the European Union, the Administration is taking steps to align
    global trade with climate goals, which will keep out dirty products
    and result in more jobs and lower prices for Americans.  
-   The Council on Environmental Quality is issuing new **guidance on
    responsible deployment of Carbon Capture, Utilization, and
    Sequestration (CCUS)** technologies that can reduce emissions from
    heavy industry and help us achieve a net-zero economy. This guidance
    will support CCUS projects that create union jobs and protect
    communities from cumulative pollution impacts. Actions by agencies
    will incorporate environmental justice considerations across CCUS
    activities.   
-   To equitably advance innovation across the entire sector, the White
    House Office of Science and Technology Policy is launching a new
    **Initiative for Interdisciplinary Industrial Decarbonization
    Research** with a focus on benefitting American workers and
    communities. The Department of Energy is working to establish the
    **Industrial Technology Innovation Advisory Committee (ITIAC)** to
    bring together a diverse group of stakeholders charged with creating
    a comprehensive strategy to lower the carbon footprint of America’s
    industrial base.

These actions and continued implementation of the Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law will reduce climate pollution from industrial
facilities, while growing the economy and creating jobs in producing
clean materials—which customers around the world are increasingly
demanding.  
  
With a strong foundation in place from today’s announcements, the
President’s Build Back Better agenda will further boost clean
manufacturing and American competitiveness for decades to come, by
supporting low-carbon processes across our industrial base; driving
long-term investment in our clean steel, cement, and aluminum
industries; and increasing domestic production of electric vehicles,
wind turbines, solar panels, and more. Earlier this month, the House
passed the [America COMPETES
Act](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/02/04/statement-from-president-biden-on-house-passage-of-the-america-competes-act/),
which would strengthen supply chains, lower prices, and create more
manufacturing jobs, while decarbonizing the industrial sector—including
through a $250 million Regional Clean Energy Innovation Program and new
programs to decarbonize American steel.

Specifically, today the Administration is announcing new efforts on:  
  
**Accelerating Clean Hydrogen**  
  
Clean hydrogen can reduce emissions in many sectors of the economy, and
is especially important for hard-to-decarbonize sectors and industrial
processes, such as steel manufacturing. But clean hydrogen is not yet in
widespread use. Targeted investments can help reduce costs, make new
breakthroughs, and create jobs for American engineers, factory workers,
construction workers, and others.     
  
To seize those opportunities, today the Department of Energy (DOE) is
launching three major new initiatives of the Bipartisan Infrastructure
Law by issuing Requests for Information:

-   **$8 billion for** [**Regional Clean Hydrogen
    Hubs**](https://eere-exchange.energy.gov/Default.aspx#FoaId5d96172f-e9b6-48ff-94ac-5579c3531526)**:**
    DOE will support development of networks of clean hydrogen
    producers, potential consumers, and connective infrastructure. These
    regional hubs will advance the production, processing, delivery,
    storage, and end-use of clean hydrogen, including innovative uses in
    the industrial sector. DOE will prioritize hubs that can provide
    significant training and long-term job opportunities for residents
    of the region.  
-   **$1 billion for a** [**Clean Hydrogen Electrolysis
    Program**](https://eere-exchange.energy.gov/Default.aspx#FoaIda1255029-22c4-4c18-9e90-356e92cbb795)**:**
    Electrolysis (using electricity to split water into hydrogen and
    oxygen) allows for clean hydrogen production from carbon
    pollution-free power sources like wind, solar, and nuclear. This
    program will improve the efficiency and cost-effectiveness of these
    technologies, by supporting the entire innovation chain—from
    research, development, and demonstration to commercialization, and
    deployment.  
-   **$500 million for** [**Clean Hydrogen Manufacturing and Recycling
    RD&D
    Activities**](https://eere-exchange.energy.gov/Default.aspx#FoaIda1255029-22c4-4c18-9e90-356e92cbb795)**:**
    DOE will also support American manufacturing of clean hydrogen
    equipment, including projects that improve efficiency and
    cost-effectiveness and support domestic supply chains for key
    components, through the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law’s Clean
    Hydrogen Manufacturing Initiative. DOE is also launching Clean
    Hydrogen Technology Recycling Research, Development, and
    Demonstration activities, to fund innovative approaches to increase
    the reuse and recycling of clean hydrogen technologies.

These Requests for Information will gather feedback from stakeholders
and communities on future implementation and priorities for DOE to
consider as it moves forward with maximizing the benefits of the
historic clean hydrogen programs in the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law.  
  
To further support DOE’s Hydrogen Shot to reduce the cost of clean
hydrogen by 80% to $1 for one kilogram in one decade, last week DOE
[announced](https://www.energy.gov/fecm/articles/us-department-energy-announces-28-million-develop-clean-hydrogen)
$28 million for R&D and front-end engineering design projects to advance
clean hydrogen in industrial uses, as well as the transportation and
electricity sectors. DOE’s new [**H2
Matchmaker**](https://www.energy.gov/eere/fuelcells/h2-matchmaker)
resource is helping clean hydrogen producers, end-users, and others find
opportunities to develop networks of production, storage, and
transportation infrastructure. H2 Matchmaker displays a map using
information received through an online form, which stakeholders can use
to connect with others nearby.  
  
The Administration’s **Interagency Working Group on Coal and Power Plant
Communities and Economic Revitalization** is bringing together
stakeholders from across the private sector, philanthropy, labor, and
community-based organizations to catalyze new job opportunities for
energy communities, including in clean hydrogen. For example, a
[December
roundtable](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/12/15/readout-of-investment-roundtable-hosted-by-the-interagency-working-group-on-coal-and-power-plant-communities-and-economic-revitalization/)
included discussion of efforts to reduce emissions and create jobs in
the South Louisiana industrial corridor. The region is a finalist in the
Economic Development Administration’s Build Back Better Regional
Challenge. An initial grant will help them continue to plan their clean
hydrogen cluster, and they are eligible to apply for a Phase 2
implementation grant.  
  
**Launching “Buy Clean” Procurement**

The federal government is the largest purchaser in the world, with
annual purchasing power of over $650 billion. To harness that power to
support low-carbon, made in America materials, the Council on
Environmental Quality and White House Office of Domestic Climate Policy
are establishing the first-ever Buy Clean Task Force. As directed by the
President’s December 2021 [executive
order](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/12/08/fact-sheet-president-biden-signs-executive-order-catalyzing-americas-clean-energy-economy-through-federal-sustainability/)
on federal sustainability, the Task Force will promote use of
construction materials with lower embodied emissions and pollutants
across their lifecycle—including each stage of the manufacturing
process.

Other members include the Departments of Defense, Energy, and
Transportation; the Environmental Protection Agency; the General
Services Administration; and the White House Office of Management and
Budget. The Task Force, which will continue to expand, is convening to
develop recommendations on:

-   Identifying materials, such as steel and concrete, as well as
    pollutants to prioritize for consideration in Federal procurement
    and federally funded projects
-   Increasing the transparency of embodied emissions through supplier
    reporting, including incentives and technical assistance to help
    domestic manufacturers better report and reduce embodied emissions
-   Launching pilot programs to boost federal procurement of clean
    construction materials 

With the Buy Clean Task Force now established, the federal government is
at the leading edge of using public procurement to increase demand for
cleanly manufactured materials, along with states including California,
Colorado, Minnesota, New York, and Washington.

Buy Clean efforts are already well underway at the General Services
Administration (GSA), which manages a nationwide federal real estate
portfolio and oversees approximately $75 billion in annual contracts.
Over the past year, GSA has actively engaged stakeholders to learn and
adopt best practices for reducing embodied emissions of buildings and
materials. Today, GSA [is issuing Requests for
Information](https://www.gsa.gov/about-us/newsroom/news-releases/gsa-announces-actions-to-reduce-emissions-from-building-materials-02152022)
(RFIs) focused on concrete and asphalt. In the coming weeks, GSA will
use the RFI responses to shape the launch of **national low-carbon
concrete and sustainable asphalt standards for Land Port of Entry
projects funded by the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law.** This
groundbreaking effort may include requiring Environmental Product
Declarations (disclosing lifecycle impacts) and the use of concrete with
at least 20% lower global warming potential, whenever available.

The Department of Transportation (DOT) is announcing new efforts to
support **use of low-carbon materials in federal transportation
projects**. A new pilot program will target key products and services to
increase use of Environmental Product Declarations and incentivize
acquisition of low-carbon materials. Additionally, DOT is standing up a
Department-wide Embodied Carbon Working Group to assess and implement
actions to reduce lifecycle emissions of construction materials used in
transportation infrastructure.

The Administration is also bringing together large corporate purchasers
to Buy Clean. At COP26, President Biden launched the **First Movers
Coalition**, with 34 companies valued at $6 trillion—the biggest demand
signal in history for innovation across hard-to-abate sectors, including
heavy industry. Led by the State Department through the U.S. Special
Presidential Envoy for Climate and the World Economic Forum, and
supported by the Departments of Commerce and Energy, the First Movers
Coalition is making clean purchasing commitments, beginning with steel,
shipping, trucking, and aviation. Today, the Administration is
announcing plans to **expand the First Movers Coalition to cover four
additional sectors in 2022: aluminum, cement, chemicals, and carbon
removal.**  
  
The Administration is also **mobilizing investment in the production of
clean technologies** by the Department of Energy, including the Loan
Programs Office, the Department of Commerce, and the U.S. International
Development Finance Corporation, as well as through a partnership
between the First Movers Coalition and the Breakthrough Energy Catalyst.
The First Movers Coalition will recruit additional companies and launch
challenge competitions for suppliers to provide the breakthrough
technologies that members have committed to purchase.  
  
**Using Trade Policy to Reward Clean Manufacturing  
**  
In October, the United States and the European Union
[announced](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/10/31/fact-sheet-the-united-states-and-european-union-to-negotiate-worlds-first-carbon-based-sectoral-arrangement-on-steel-and-aluminum-trade/)
their commitment to negotiate the **world’s first emissions-based
sectoral arrangement on steel and aluminum trade** by 2024. Following on
that announcement, Secretary of Commerce Gina Raimondo, U.S. Trade
Representative Katherine Tai, and senior White House officials are
continuing to work with European Union counterparts on this
unprecedented effort—never before have two global partners aligned their
trade policies to confront the threats of climate change and global
market distortions, ensuring that trade works to solve the challenges of
the 21st century.  
  
Together, the United States and European Union are working to restrict
access to their markets for dirty steel and limit access to countries
that dump steel in both markets, contributing to worldwide over-supply.
The arrangement will be open to any interested country that wishes to
join and meets criteria for restoring market orientation and reducing
trade in high-emissions steel and aluminum products. It will thus drive
investment in green steel and aluminum production in the United States,
Europe, and around the world, ensuring a competitive U.S. steel and
aluminum industry for decades to come.  
  
**Responsibly Advancing CCUS Technologies**

Carbon Capture, Utilization, and Sequestration (CCUS) refers to
technologies that remove carbon pollution from point sources like
smokestacks, or from the ambient air, and permanently store the carbon.
In factories, CCUS can reduce emissions from chemical reactions and
high-temperature processes that are difficult and expensive to
electrify. The best scientific analyses also find that to achieve a
net-zero economy, we will need to remove carbon pollution that has
already been released in the atmosphere. While CCUS can be an important
tool in tackling the climate crisis, the benefits and impacts of
potential projects vary significantly—requiring careful planning and
oversight to ensure deployment is safe, equitable, and environmentally
sound.  
  
To help federal agencies advance CCUS responsibly, today **the Council
on Environmental Quality is [issuing CCUS
guidance](https://www.whitehouse.gov/ceq/news-updates/2022/02/15/ceq-issues-new-guidance-to-responsibly-develop-carbon-capture-utilization-and-sequestration/).**
This guidance, called for in the bipartisan USE IT Act, builds on CEQ’s
[June 2021 CCUS
report](https://www.whitehouse.gov/ceq/news-updates/2021/06/30/council-on-environmental-quality-delivers-report-to-congress-on-steps-to-advance-responsible-orderly-and-efficient-development-of-carbon-capture-utilization-and-sequestration/)
and addresses issues including: 

-   Sound and transparent environmental reviews for CCUS projects
-   Incorporation of environmental justice and equity considerations to
    protect overburdened communities from any direct, indirect, and
    cumulative impacts
-   Meaningful public engagement and Tribal consultations from early in
    the process
-   Opportunities to create good-paying, union jobs and training
    programs
-   Life cycle analyses of carbon capture and utilization (CCU) and
    carbon dioxide removal (CDR) projects

As agencies prepare to implement more than $12 billion in CCUS
investments provided by the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, this guidance
will promote projects informed by community perspectives and aligned
with climate, public health, and economic goals.  
  
To further support responsible deployment:

-   The Environmental Protection Agency is developing proposed rule
    revisions to **strengthen the Greenhouse Gas Reporting Program to
    improve transparency on CCUS activities.** This Program collects and
    publishes annual greenhouse gas data from large industrial sources,
    and the proposed updates would add reporting requirements for direct
    air capture and carbon storage.
-   To **train a racially diverse, highly skilled generation of
    engineers and scientists for carbon management roles**, DOE is
    announcing $5 million for university training and research projects,
    including $2 million for Historically Black Colleges and
    Universities (HBCUs) and other Minority Serving Institutions (MSIs).
-   The Federal Permitting Improvement Steering Council and its member
    agencies are working together to facilitate **collaborative CCUS
    project reviews**.
-   The Department of the Interior is working to **establish safeguards
    for geologic sequestration** on federally managed lands and is
    developing new regulations for geologic sequestration in the outer
    continental shelf as required under the Bipartisan Infrastructure
    Law.

**Supporting Equitable Innovation Across the Industrial Sector**  
  
Supporting the industrial sector to achieve net-zero emissions will
provide benefits to communities across the country. To ensure that
innovations in this sector meet the needs of diverse stakeholders, the
Administration is launching a **new Initiative for Interdisciplinary
Industrial Decarbonization Research**. Led by the White House Office of
Science and Technology Policy (OSTP), this Initiative will bring
together social scientists, engineering and physical scientists,
community groups, industry, government, and other stakeholders. As a
first step, OSTP is convening a workshop to get advice from social
science thought leaders about the research agenda needed to support
rapid, widespread industrial decarbonization. This research will help
build the consensus necessary to ensure a just transition to clean
industry, with new, good-paying jobs for American workers and health and
economic benefits for communities.  
  
To identify and catalyze the next generation of breakthroughs, DOE’s
Advanced Manufacturing Office is working to establish the **Industrial
Technology Innovation Advisory Committee (ITIAC)**. This federal
advisory committee will bring together a diverse cross-section of the
industrial sector to find viable decarbonization pathways that will
equitably benefit the industrial workforce and surrounding communities.
DOE has also issued a [**Request for Information on Industrial
Decarbonization**](https://www.energy.gov/eere/amo/articles/department-energy-seeks-input-technology-pathways-decarbonize-americas-industrial).
This RFI will provide insights on emerging technologies for industry to
demonstrate or adopt, including for clean production of iron and steel,
cement, chemicals, and food and beverages. The Advanced Manufacturing
Office will use this information to shape priorities for reducing
industrial emissions and increasing competitiveness.  
  
Additionally, DOE is helping manufacturers optimize use of energy and
materials while training the workforce of the future through its
Industrial Assessment Centers—which provide no-cost energy assessments
conducted by university-based teams of engineering students and faculty.
**Through the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, DOE will expand the
Industrial Assessment Centers program** by offering specialized training
to staff and students and increasing access to innovation and workforce
development opportunities, particularly in disadvantaged communities.
These actions build on a year of progress—in 2021, DOE’s Advanced
Manufacturing Office
[invested](https://www.energy.gov/eere/amo/articles/amo-year-review-clean-energy-future-made-america)
more than $332 million in industrial technical assistance, education and
workforce development, and R&D at every stage of the supply chain.  
  
The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) is also partnering with
manufacturers through the ENERGY STAR program, which challenges and
supports industrial plants in improving energy efficiency and reducing
greenhouse gas emissions. EPA is now **expanding ENERGY STAR by
incorporating carbon intensity metrics** for certain industries. Going
forward, EPA will continue to increase ENERGY STAR’s focus on ambitious
emissions reductions that support net-zero goals across the industrial
sector.

\###
