---
category: statements-releases
date: '2022-02-28'
modified_time: 2022-02-28 14:58:44-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/02/28/fact-sheet-background-on-president-bidens-remarks-on-the-economy-during-his-first-state-of-the-union-address/
published_time: 2022-02-28 15:00:00-05:00
title: "FACT SHEET: Background on President Biden\u2019s Remarks on the Economy During\
  \ His First State of The Union Address"
---
 
President Biden ran for office with a new economic vision: to grow the
economy from the bottom up and the middle out, not the top down. On
Tuesday, the President will make a strong case that the Biden-Harris
economic strategy is producing historic results, and lay out his plan to
tackle the economic challenges ahead. He will underscore that during his
first year in office, due in large part to the American Rescue Plan,
entrepreneurship and business investment rebounded, the economy achieved
its fastest job growth in American history, the fastest economic growth
in nearly 40 years, and a faster recovery than every other advanced
economy. And, he will emphasize that this progress is occurring amidst
an historic shift from the old, outdated trickle-down approach to one
that centers on workers, families, and small businesses.

During his first State of the Union Address, the President will also
make clear that there is more work to do to rebuild the economy towards
resilience, security, and sustainability. Too many families continue to
feel the squeeze of higher costs. The President will make clear that
price increases that become entrenched are pernicious, and eat away at
the economic progress the country is making. The President will lay out
his plan to lower costs for American families while continuing an
historically strong economic recovery by:  
  

-   Making more things in America, strengthening our supply chains, and
    moving goods faster and cheaper;  
      
-   Reducing the cost of everyday expenses working families face and
    reducing the deficit;  
      
-   Promoting fair competition to lower prices, help small businesses
    thrive, and protect consumers; and  
      
-   Eliminating barriers to good-paying jobs for workers all across
    America.

**<u>Making more things in America, strengthening our supply chains, and
moving goods faster and cheaper:</u>**

President Biden will make clear that he believes one of the best ways to
lower costs over the long run is to increase the productive capacity of
our economy—put simply, to make more things in America with more
American workers contributing and earning a good living. He will
describe the emerging manufacturing comeback, with American companies
betting on America again because of the Administration’s commitment to
domestic industrial revitalization and technological development. He
will note that in just the last year, the economy added 375,000
manufacturing jobs and companies announced nearly $200 billion in
investments for semiconductor, electric vehicle, battery, and critical
mineral production and manufacturing in the United States. He will
recount how Intel recently announced a new $20 billion factory outside
of Columbus, Ohio that will create 7,000 construction jobs and another
3,000 permanent jobs – another sign of the strength of the American
economy.

President Biden will also announce specific goals for implementation of
his landmark Bipartisan Infrastructure law (BIL), a once-in-a-generation
investment in our nation’s economic competitiveness that will strengthen
supply chains and move goods to market faster and more efficiently,
encouraging more companies to choose America. Over the next year:  
  

-   States, territories, Tribes and local governments will start to
    improve 65,000 miles of roads and 1,500 bridges with federal
    funding, representing a 44% and 50% increase respectively from
    average annual improvement levels over the past six years.  
      
-   The Federal Aviation Administration will be able to invest in over
    600 airport infrastructure projects, including preserving 400
    pavement projects on taxiways and runways.  
      
-   Communities will invest in an estimated 15,000 new buses, ferries
    and subway cars, improving commutes for working Americans, families,
    and students across the country and reducing greenhouse emissions.  
      
-   The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers will advance over 500 projects
    across 52 states and territories to strengthen supply chains,
    improve waterways, and reduce flooding.  
      
-   The Environmental Protection Agency will work with state and local
    governments to fund more than 400 new water projects from replacing
    lead service lines to improving drinking water systems.  
      
-   States, Tribes, and other partners will use BIL funds to reclaim
    over 15,000 acres of abandoned mine lands, as well as launch new
    reclamation efforts that will ultimately address tens of thousands
    of additional acres across the country.  
      
-   The Interior Department’s new Orphan Well Program will start work
    plugging, capping, and remediating over 8,000 abandoned oil & gas
    well sites in communities across the country.  
      
-   The Interior Department will increase its work to reduce the risk of
    wildfires to communities by more than 30 percent – removing over
    300,000 acres of burnable fuels in the places where communities and
    wildlands meet – as well as the start of work to reduce wildfire
    risk on an additional 250,000 acres across the country.  
      
-   The Department of Energy will take steps to launch a first-of-its
    kind $140 million demonstration facility to extract and separate
    rare earth elements and other critical minerals from coal ash, mine
    tailings, acid drainage, and other legacy fossil fuel waste to
    sustainably produce materials key to next-generation clean energy
    technologies.  
      
-   The Department of Energy will make available nearly $3 billion to
    bolster domestic manufacturing of advanced batteries for electric
    vehicles and energy storage.

To build on these investments and spur more private-sector investment in
the United States, the President will also call on Congress to send him
bipartisan competitiveness legislation like the COMPETES and USICA bills
that have passed the House and the Senate to invest in innovation,
manufacturing, and economic development capacity across all of America
so America can outcompete China and the rest of the world in the
industries of the future.

**<u>Reducing the cost of everyday expenses working families face:</u>**

President Biden will call on Congress to send him legislation that
lowers costs of everyday expenses working families face and lowers the
deficit by rewarding work, not wealth. He will lay out specific,
practical measures that would reduce costs for families right now,
including prescription drug costs and health care premiums, child care
and pre-k costs, and energy costs. He will point to the other ideas he
has proposed on areas ranging from housing to care for seniors and
people with disabilities to higher education affordability to direct tax
relief for families. These efforts build on the support provided in the
American Rescue Plan that has helped reduce the cost of health care,
helped more than 5000 universities and community colleges make higher
education more affordable, made work pay better for low-income workers
through an expanded Earned Income Tax Credit, and provided historic
middle class tax relief for tens of millions of working families through
an expanded Child Tax Credit.

The President will make clear that we can lower costs while lowering the
deficit by rewarding work, not wealth. He will outline proposals to make
sure corporations and the wealthiest Americans pay their fair share,
while making clear that no one making under $400,000 a year should see
their taxes increased.

The President will call on Congress to send him a bill that lowers costs
and lowers the deficit without delay. American families need relief from
higher costs, and they need it now.

*  
***<u>Promoting fair competition to lower prices, help small businesses
thrive, and protect consumers:</u>****

President Biden will explain that we can also lower costs by promoting
fair competition in the U.S. economy. The Administration has taken
decisive actions in the first year to stop the trend of corporate
consolidation, increase competition, and deliver concrete benefits to
America’s consumers, workers, farmers, and small businesses. He will
also announce new actions the Biden-Harris Administration is taking this
year to tackle some of the most pressing competition and consumer
protection problems across our economy. Specifically, he will announce
new steps to:  
  

-   **Lower consumer prices and level the playing field for American
    businesses in ocean shipping.** The President will explain that most
    traded goods—everything from the housewares you buy online to the
    agricultural products that American farmers market overseas—are
    transported by oceangoing vessels. However, the ocean shipping
    industry is now dominated by just a small number of giant,
    foreign-owned companies. Three global alliances—groups of ocean
    carriers that work together—now control 80% of global container ship
    capacity and 95% on the critical East-West trade lines. And, since
    the beginning of the pandemic, these carriers have been increasing
    shipping costs through higher rates and fees. The President will
    note that the foreign carriers are now seeing record profits, while
    prices for American consumers and businesses have risen. To combat
    this problem, the President will announce steps to lower consumer
    prices and level the playing field for American businesses in ocean
    shipping, including launching a new Federal Maritime Commission and
    Department of Justice initiative to promote competition in the ocean
    freight transportation system. He will also note that the Federal
    Maritime Commission is ramping up its oversight of the global
    shipping industry to address complaints about the unfair fees the
    carriers charge to American businesses. *Read the full Biden-Harris
    Plan to Lower Consumer Prices and Level the Playing Field in Ocean
    Shipping here.***  
      
    **
-   **Protect seniors and other nursing home residents by cracking down
    on unsafe nursing homes.** The President will explain that while the
    federal government spends tens of billions of taxpayer dollars on
    nursing homes annually, these federal funds too often flow to
    nursing homes with bad track records and dangerous conditions. He
    will explain that [200,000
    residents](https://www.kff.org/policy-watch/over-200000-residents-and-staff-in-long-term-care-facilities-have-died-from-covid-19/)
    and staff in nursing homes have died from COVID-19, representing
    nearly 23% of all COVID-19 deaths in the United States. He will also
    stress that despite well-documented, widespread health and safety
    violations, there has been little or no accountability. To protect
    seniors and crack down on unsafe nursing homes, President Biden will
    call on Congress to provide nearly $500 million to CMS Survey and
    Certification, a 24% increase, to support health and safety
    inspections at nursing homes. He will also announce that the
    Biden-Harris Administration will, among other new initiatives,
    establish a new minimum staffing ratio to protect residents, expand
    penalties for poor performing nursing homes and beef up scrutiny,
    improve transparency and Americans’ ability to comparison shop for
    the best home, strengthen value-based payment to ensure taxpayers
    pay for quality care, and continue to provide COVID-19 testing and
    vaccinations at nursing homes across the country. *Read the full
    Biden-Harris Plan to Protect Seniors by Cracking Down on Unsafe
    Nursing Homes here.*  
      

**<u>Eliminating barriers to good-paying jobs for workers all across
America:</u>**

President Biden will reflect on one of the strongest labor market
recoveries in American history. Specifically, the President will note
that during his first year in office, the economy added more than 6.6
million jobs; the unemployment rate fell at its fastest pace on record;
the number of number of workers filing for unemployment insurance
declined by more than 70 percent; and millions of Americans have entered
and reentered the labor force, with the largest increase in the labor
force participation rate in more than 25 years. He will highlight the
important role that the American Rescue Plan played in positioning
employers to hire and workers to rejoin the labor force and find higher
quality jobs. Earlier this year, he directed the Secretary of Labor to
work with states to reinstate work search requirements for unemployment
insurance recipients.  
  

To further our economic recovery and increase the productive capacity of
our economy, the President will announce his Administration’s plan to
ensure everyone who wants to work should have the opportunity to find a
high-quality job. Specifically, he will express his support for:  
  

-   **Enacting the Protecting the Right to Organize Act.** President
    Biden will express his firm belief that every worker in every state
    must have a free and fair choice to organize or join a union, and
    the right to bargain collectively with their employer, without fear
    of intimidation, coercion, threats, and anti-union propaganda. He
    will reiterate that the middle class built America and unions built
    the middle class. And, he will emphasize that empowering workers is
    central to the Biden-Harris strategy to grow our economy from the
    bottom up and the middle out. The President will call on Congress to
    pass the Richard L. Trumka Protecting the Right to Organize (PRO)
    Act and the Public Service Freedom to Negotiate Act, ensuring that
    more private-sector workers and many more public-sector workers
    nationwide have a genuine right to organize and bargain
    collectively.  
      
-   **Expanding skills-based hiring and increasing access to registered
    apprenticeships and training.** President Biden will reiterate his
    commitment to creating pathways to the middle class for all
    Americans. He will stress that millions of Americans without a
    college degree are needlessly disadvantaged in the pursuit of good
    jobs, even when they have the skills and knowledge employers need.
    To support skills-based hiring, President Biden will announce that
    his Administration will explore using federal and procurement
    dollars to by hire based on skills rather than educational
    qualifications alone, , including through boosting hiring of people
    from Registered Apprenticeships and labor-management partnership
    training programs. Additionally, the Administration remains
    committed to strengthening the pipeline for more underserved
    communities to access these opportunities. As an example, the
    Administration has supported and increased access to quality
    trucking jobs by expanding Registered Apprenticeship programs for
    drivers; and developing more seamless paths for veterans and
    underrepresented communities, such as women, to access good driving
    jobs. He will state that the Administration is supporting and
    challenging employers to move towards skill-based hiring, including
    through a new budget proposal to invest in skills-based hiring
    research tools and technical assistance. This effort builds on the
    American Rescue Plan’s critical workforce investments in the past
    year – with more than half of states already committing Fiscal
    Recovery Funds to training and apprenticeships and efforts to hire
    and retain critical workers – and catalyzing investments in
    place-based regional workforce strategies through the Commerce
    Department’s Good Jobs Challenge.

<!-- -->

-   **Expanding programs in high-demand fields at Historically Black
    Colleges and Universities (HBCUs), Tribal Colleges and Universities
    (TCUs), and Minority-Serving Institutions (MSIs).** President Biden
    will explain that research has found that HBCUs, TCUs, and MSIs are
    vital to helping underrepresented students achieve economic
    mobility, including in STEM fields. However, he will also stress
    that these institutions have significantly fewer resources than
    other top colleges and universities, undermining their ability to
    grow and support more students. To address this persistent problem,
    and building on the progress made by the American Rescue Plan
    providing the largest investment through the Department of Education
    ever in these institutions, the President will call on Congress to
    expand existing institutional aid grants to HBCUs, TCUs, and MSIs,
    which can be used by these institutions to strengthen their
    academic, administrative, and fiscal capabilities, including by
    creating or expanding educational programs in high-demand fields
    (e.g., STEM, computer sciences, nursing, and allied health).  
      
-   **Providing up to more than $2,000 in additional assistance to
    low-income students by increasing the Pell Grant award.** President
    Biden will note that broad access to education beyond high school is
    increasingly important for economic growth and competitiveness in
    the 21st century, but also remind us that higher education has
    become unaffordable for too many families. Over 6 million students
    depend on Pell Grants to finance their education, yet the amount of
    money in these grants has not kept up with the rising cost of
    college and DREAMers still do not have access. During his State of
    the Union Address, President Biden will call on Congress to increase
    the maximum Pell Grant award by more than $2,000.  
      
-   **Supporting paycheck fairness.** President Biden will note that
    women in the U.S. who work full-time, year-round are paid only 83
    cents for every dollar paid to their male counterparts, on average.
    He will also express his belief that ensuring equal pay is essential
    to advancing America’s values of fairness and equity as well as our
    economic strength here at home and our competitiveness abroad.
    President Biden will use his State of the Union Address as an
    opportunity to call on Congress to pass the Paycheck Fairness Act,
    which will take important steps towards the goal of ending pay
    discrimination.

<!-- -->

-   **Raising the minimum wage to $15 per hour.** President Biden will
    recount that throughout the pandemic, millions of American workers
    have put their lives on the line to keep their communities and
    country functioning, including the 40 percent of frontline workers
    who are people of color. The President will express his belief that
    hard-working Americans deserve sufficient wages to put food on the
    table and keep a roof over their heads, without having to work
    multiple jobs. The President already issued executive actions to
    ensure 370,000 federal employees and employees of federal
    contractors are paid a minimum of $15 per hour – because investing
    in workers also makes employers, including the government, work
    better and faster. The President will call on Congress to raise the
    minimum wage to $15 per hour, and end the tipped minimum wage and
    sub-minimum wage for people with disabilities so that workers across
    the country can have a little breathing room and provide opportunity
    for their families.  
      
-   **Creating a national comprehensive paid family and medical leave
    program.** President Biden will stress that nearly four of five
    private sector workers – and 90 percent of the lowest wage workers –
    have no access to paid family leave, which is a critical input for
    economic growth and competitiveness in the 21st century. He will
    call on Congress to pass comprehensive paid family and medical leave
    legislation so millions of American workers can take time to bond
    with a new child, care for a seriously ill loved one or heal from
    their own serious illness.

\###
