---
category: statements-releases
date: '2022-02-07'
modified_time: 2022-02-07 17:02:47-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/02/07/president-biden-announces-key-appointees/
published_time: 2022-02-07 16:49:08-05:00
title: President Biden Announces Key Appointees
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Biden announces his intent to appoint the
following individuals to serve in key roles:

-   Elver Ariza-Silva, Member, Architectural and Transportation Barriers
    Compliance Access Board
-   Heather Dowdy, Member, Architectural and Transportation Barriers
    Compliance Access Board
-   Gregory S. Fehribach, Member, Architectural and Transportation
    Barriers Compliance Access Board
-   Mozhdeh Amelia Hamraie, Member, Architectural and Transportation
    Barriers Compliance Access Board
-   Hannah Raissa Ibañez, Member, Architectural and Transportation
    Barriers Compliance Access Board
-   Alexis Ander Kashar, Member, Architectural and Transportation
    Barriers Compliance Access Board
-   KR Liu, Member, Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance
    Access Board
-   Benjamin William Julian Nadolsky, Member, Architectural and
    Transportation Barriers Compliance Access Board
-   Madeline Rose Ruvolo, Member, Architectural and Transportation
    Barriers Compliance Access Board
-   Gen. John R. Allen, USMC (Ret.), Member, Board of Visitors to the
    U.S. Naval Academy
-   Dr. Paul J. Angelo, Member, Board of Visitors to the U.S. Naval
    Academy
-   President Emeritus Robert E. Clark II, Member, Board of Visitors to
    the U.S. Naval Academy
-   Adm. Michelle Janine Howard, USN (Ret.), Member, Board of Visitors
    to the U.S. Naval Academy
-   Lt. Cmdr. John S. McCain IV, Member, Board of Visitors to the U.S.
    Naval Academy
-   Lt. Col. Amy McGrath, USMC (Ret.), Member, Board of Visitors to the
    U.S. Naval Academy

**<u>Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Access
Board</u>**

The Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Access Board is
an independent federal agency that promotes equality for people with
disabilities through leadership in accessible design and the development
of accessibility guidelines and standards.  The Board develops and
maintains design criteria for the built environment, transit vehicles,
telecommunications equipment, medical diagnostic equipment, and
information technology.  It also provides technical assistance and
training on these requirements and accessible design and continues to
enforce accessibility standards that cover federally funded facilities.

**<u>Elver Ariza-Silva, Member</u>**

Elver Ariza-Silva is active in advocacy efforts for all people with
disabilities, with a focus on those who are Latino in the District of
Columbia. Originally from the Republic of Colombia, Ariza-Silva is a
polio survivor and a professional with more than 20 years combined
experience in human and social services and in the food industry.
Ariza-Silva has served as a research assistant for a Johns Hopkins
University study that focused on preventing child trafficking from Latin
America and has held leadership roles in the food industry. Ariza-Silva
was appointed by Mayor Vincent C. Gray and Mayor Muriel Bowser to serve
as Chairman on the Statewide Independent Living Council. Ariza-Silva
served as Vice-chair of the Accessibility Advisory Committee Board of
the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority, advising Metro on
ways to improve Metro Rail, Metro Bus, and Metro Access.

**<u>Heather Dowdy, Member</u>**

With fifteen years of experience developing and demonstrating accessible
technology in mobile, web and artificial intelligence, Heather Dowdy is
passionate about connecting the dots across disability, race, tech, and
faith. She currently leads Accessibility at Netflix, leveraging
technology to connect people with disabilities to their next favorite
story. Previously, Dowdy served in several accessibility leadership
roles at Microsoft and Motorola Mobility, including being named Chair of
the Accessibility Working Group of the Mobile & Wireless Forum. As the
oldest daughter of Deaf parents, Dowdy is fluent in American Sign
Language (ASL). Dowdy has served as a Board Member of the World
Institute on Disability (WID), deaf kids CODE, and Billion Strong. She
loves using the design thinking process to create solutions that improve
usability for everyone. Dowdy holds a Bachelor of Science degree in
Electrical Engineering from the University of Illinois at
Urbana-Champaign.

**<u>Gregory S. Fehribach, Member</u>**

Greg Fehribach is a leader in accessibility and inclusion for people
with disabilities. An attorney for over thirty-five years who is
affiliated with the Indianapolis law firm Tuohy, Bailey, & Moore, LLP,
Fehribach founded The Fehribach Group in 1995, where he provides
innovative access solutions to clients nationwide who are seeking to
create an accessible environment that is welcoming to all guests. Under
Fehribach’s guidance as legal counsel, Indianapolis has often been named
a top accessible American city, as demonstrated when it hosted the 2012
Super Bowl, considered the most accessible Super Bowl for people with
disabilities to date. Fehribach currently serves as a Trustee of the
Health & Hospital Corporation of Marion County (Indianapolis). In 2013,
Fehribach’s vision for the full inclusion, equity, and economic
independence for people with disabilities led to the development of the
innovative Gregory S. Fehribach Center. In 2004 he was appointed by the
Governor of the State of Indiana to be a Trustee for Ball State, and he
continues to serve as a Distinguished Fellow at the university.

**<u>Mozhdeh Amelia Hamraie, Member</u>**

Dr. Aimi Hamraie (they/them) is a disabled designer and scholar, with
expertise in architectural and digital media accessibility. They are the
author of *Building Access: Universal Design and the Politics of
Disability* (University of Minnesota Press, 2017), a history of the
Universal Design movement and accessibility standards in the United
States. Hamraie has also published numerous other articles on the topics
of disability access, architecture, and urbanism in academic journals.
They are quoted in the New York Times, the Chronicle of Higher
Education, National Public Radio, the History Channel, and other news
sources. Hamraie works as Associate Professor of Medicine, Health, &
Society and American Studies at Vanderbilt University, where they train
students in the pre-medicine and pre-health professions in the field of
disability studies. Hamraie also directs the Critical Design Lab, a
collaborative of disabled designers and researchers located in three
countries. The Critical Design Lab was recognized with a United States
Artists Fellowship in Media for 2022.

**<u>Hannah Raissa Ibañez, Member</u>**

Hannah Raissa Ibañez, Esq. currently works as a Senior Staff Attorney on
the Tenant Defense Project for Inner City Law Center, a non-profit law
firm that provides free legal services to vulnerable residents of Los
Angeles. In this role, she provides litigation defense to low-income
tenants, working poor families, immigrants, people who are living with
HIV/AIDS, people with disabilities, and veterans facing homelessness and
eviction. Prior to joining ICLC, she was an Assistant Public Defender
for Florida’s Sixth and Twelfth Judicial Districts, serving in both
Misdemeanor and Felony Divisions. She served on the board for the Red
Tent Women’s Initiative, a Florida non-profit that focuses on providing
resources to incarcerated women to assist in their transition back into
society. She developed a pro-bono clinic between the Sixth Judicial
Circuit Public Defender’s office and her alma mater Stetson Law school
to provide support to Public Defenders and their clients, while giving
young lawyers the opportunity to consider a career in social rights
advocacy. Currently, she volunteers with the Los Angeles chapter of the
National Lawyers Guild as a Legal Observer, ensuring that the
constitutional rights of peaceful organizers are protected.

**<u>Alexis Ander Kashar, Member</u>**

Alexis Kashar is a civil rights attorney, business leader, and
technologist. She grew up in a multi-generational Deaf family that
encouraged her interest in civil rights and accessibility from an early
age. She graduated from the University of Texas School of Business and
the University of Texas Law school. For over two decades, she was among
a small group of Deaf attorneys in the world practicing civil rights and
special education law in the private sector, where she fought for a more
accessible world. She is also a second-generation entrepreneur in the
accessible design and technology space. Kashar’s parents founded Krown
Manufacturing where they were pioneers in the world of assistive
technology, manufacturing communication kits for homes and hotels around
the world. She is currently the President of the Board for the New York
School for the Deaf, one of New York’s oldest institutions and the
founder of Rosebyander Jewelry. Kashar currently resides in Westchester,
New York.

**<u>KR Liu, Member</u>**

KR Liu is a leader in the area of disability inclusion and LGBTQ rights.
She has been on the forefront of issues blazing a trail towards
inclusive design and marketing for almost 20 years. Diagnosed with
severe hearing loss at the age of three, she’s made it her life’s work
to be a strong advocate for disabled people. As the Head of Brand
Accessibility at Google, Brand Studio she drives innovation of
representation for diverse disabled audiences, a segment that
historically has been overlooked. Liu has been invited to speak at the
White House, the United Nations, Capitol Hill, CES, SXSW to push for a
more accessible and inclusive world for all through brand marketing and
inclusive design in technology. She successfully lobbied on Capitol Hill
with Senator Warren’s team and helped pass legislation called the
Over-The-Counter Hearing Aid Act of 2017. She is on several boards such
as the Consumer Technology Association Foundation, Deaf Kids Code, and
the American Association for People with Disabilities. She is a
nationally awarded advocate, with a strong reputation in inclusive
design, brand marketing, policy, and inclusion.

**<u>Benjamin William Julian Nadolsky, Member</u>**

Benjamin Nadolsky of Knoxville, Tennessee is the principal of Nadolsky
Consulting Group LLC, a firm specialized in education, accessibility,
and disability rights. He is on the Board of Directors for the World
Institute on Disability and the Pennhurst Preservation & Memorial
Alliance Advisory Board. Additionally, he is a professional student at
the University of Pennsylvania, receiving his JD/MBA, a Coelho Law
Fellow, and a co-chair for the Yale Disability Alumni Group. Previously,
he served as a high school teacher for two years in Nashville, TN. While
teaching, he received his M. Ed. from Lipscomb University. In 2018, he
received his B.A. in Global Affairs and History from Yale University.
There, he served through mayoral appointment on the City of New Haven’s
Commission on Disabilities, founded Yale’s only undergraduate
organization dedicated to disability rights, Disability Empowerment for
Yale, and worked as an Inaugural Kerry Yale College Fellow for U.S.
Special Presidential Envoy for Climate John Kerry. During his college
career, Nadolsky also interned with the U.S. Department of Education
Office of Educational Technology, the Office of Former U.S. Senator Bob
Corker (TN), and the Office of Former Knox County Mayor Tim Burchett
(TN).

**<u>Madeline Rose Ruvolo, Member</u>**

Madeline Ruvolo is a transportation planner on the Accessible Services
team at the San Francisco Municipal Transportation Agency. She
specializes in the accessibility of active transportation and emerging
mobility projects and programs. Previously, Ruvolo worked for the UCLA
Institute of Transportation Studies, the Los Angeles Department of
Transportation, and the Oakland Department of Transportation. Ruvolo has
received many accolades for her work at the intersection of
transportation and disability, including the prestigious Dwight David
Eisenhower Transportation Fellowship and Myra L. Frank Memorial Graduate
Scholarship. She holds a master’s degree in Urban and Regional Planning
from the Luskin School of Public Affairs at the University of
California, Los Angeles and a Bachelor of Arts in American Studies from
Scripps College, where she graduated summa cum laude. Ruvolo is from
Silver Spring, Maryland and resides in Oakland, California.

**<u>The Board of Visitors to the U.S. Naval Academy</u>**

The Board of Visitors to the U.S. Naval Academy inquires into the state
of morale and discipline, the curriculum, instruction, physical
equipment, fiscal affairs, academic methods, and other matters relating
to the academy which the Board decides to consider. The Board consists
of six members appointed by the President, three appointed by the Vice
President, four appointed by the Speaker of the House of
Representatives, one designated by the Senate Armed Services Committee
and one designated by the House Armed Services Committee. The President
of the United States receives an annual written report of the Board’s
findings and recommendations.

**<u>General John R. Allen, Member</u>**

General John R. Allen, USMC (Ret.) is a retired four-star Marine Corps
General who currently serves as the 8th President of the Brookings
Institution. General Allen was the first Marine to command a theater of
war, serving as Commander of the NATO International Security Assistance
Force (ISAF) and U.S. Forces in Afghanistan. Following his retirement in
2013, General Allen served as Special Presidential Envoy to the Global
Coalition to Counter ISIL under the Obama administration. A graduate of
the Naval Academy class of 1976, where in 2021 he was named a
Distinguished Graduate, General Allen’s nearly 38 years in the Marine
Corps included two postings at the Naval Academy, first as an instructor
in the Political Science Department, and then as the 79th Commandant of
Midshipmen – the first Marine to hold this position.

**<u>Dr. Paul J. Angelo, Member</u>**

Dr. Paul J. Angelo, PhD, is a fellow for Latin America Studies at the
Council on Foreign Relations, where he researches migration, insecurity,
and strategic competition in the Western Hemisphere. A U.S. Navy Reserve
foreign area officer, Angelo also serves as the executive officer of a
U.S. Naval Forces Southern Command unit based in San Juan, Puerto
Rico. He was formerly an International Affairs Fellow at CFR, and in
this capacity, he represented the U.S. Department of State as a
political officer at the U.S. Embassy in Tegucigalpa, Honduras. His
previous service in the Navy includes tours on board a destroyer
deployed to the Asia-Pacific region; at the U.S. Embassy in Bogotá,
Colombia; in a United Kingdom-based NATO role; and as an instructor at
the U.S. Naval Academy. Angelo holds a BS in political science (with
honors) from the U.S. Naval Academy, where he was awarded the Harry S.
Truman Scholarship; an MPhil in Latin American studies (with
distinction) from the University of Oxford, where he studied as a Rhodes
Scholar; and a PhD in politics from University College London.

**<u>President Emeritus Robert E. Clark II, Member</u>**

President Emeritus Robert Clark served as the 17<sup>th</sup> President
of Wesley College before retiring in June 2021 after ensuring the
long-term viability of the Wesley College brand with a historic
Acquisition Agreement signed with Delaware State University. In
recognition of his leadership and service to the College and the
community, the Board of Trustees bestowed upon him the title of
President Emeritus. Clark is a proud Navy Veteran, and a 1984 graduate
of the United States Naval Academy.  During his 32 years of service as a
Submarine Officer, he served on five nuclear powered fast attack
submarines, as well as in some of the most critical and rewarding
positions in the Navy, including; 84<sup>th</sup> Commandant of
Midshipmen at the United States Naval Academy; Commodore of Submarine
Squadron Four; Deputy Executive Assistant, and then Executive Assistant,
to two Vice Chiefs of Naval Operations, where he was the only officer in
the history of the office to hold both positions concurrently; and
Commanding Officer of the nuclear powered submarine USS Connecticut (SSN
22).  He and his wife, Ruth Ann, have two sons, both Naval Officers, a
daughter-in-law, and a granddaughter. 

**<u>Admiral Michelle J. Howard, Member</u>**

Admiral Michelle Howard (Ret.) served 35 years in the United States
Navy. Howard led Sailors and Marines multiple times in her career as the
Commander of a ship, an Expeditionary Strike Group, a Task Force, and a
Naval theater. Her last command was from 2016 to 2017 as U.S. Naval
Forces Europe and U.S. Naval Forces Africa. She simultaneously led
NATO’s Allied Joint Force Command Naples with oversight of missions from
the Western Balkans to Iraq. Her operational experiences include: Desert
Shield/Desert Storm, a West African Training Cruise, Indonesia Tsunami
Relief Efforts, Maritime Security Operations in the North Arabian Gulf,
and Counter-piracy efforts in Gulf of Aden/Somalia Basin. She graduated
from the United States Naval Academy in 1982 and from the Army’s Command
and General Staff College in 1998. Howard was the Shapiro Visiting
Professor at the Elliott School of International Affairs, George
Washington University from 2018 to 2020. She is on the board of
directors for IBM, the Stimson Center, and on an advisory panel to the
United States Institute of Peace.

**<u>Lieutenant Commander John S. McCain IV, Member</u>**

Lt. Cmdr. John “Jack” McCain is a reserve Naval Aviator for Helicopter
Sea Combat Squadron 85, and graduate of the United States Naval Academy
and Georgetown’s School of Foreign Service. He has deployed five times
in the Pacific, Persian Gulf, and Afghanistan where, as an Afghan Hand,
he flew alongside Afghan pilots in the Blackhawk, throughout Kandahar
and Helmand. Prior to that he was a leadership instructor at the Naval
Academy and a search and rescue pilot in Guam. He is currently working
as American Airlines’ Director for State and Local Government Affairs
for the Western United States.

**<u>Lieutenant Colonel Amy McGrath, Member</u>**

Lt. Col. Amy McGrath, USMC (ret.) is a US Naval Academy graduate who
served as a Marine F/A-18 pilot and weapons systems officer with three
combat deployments in Iraq and Afghanistan. After her operational flying
tours, she served as a Congressional Fellow and in the Pentagon as
Marine Corps’ liaison to the State Department and a tour teaching
political science at USNA. In 2018 and 2020, she ran U.S. House and
Senate races in Kentucky. More recently she founded Honor Bound, Inc. a
501(c)(4) nonpartisan organization committed to leadership development
for women with a service background and encouraging those women to run
for elected office.
