---
category: statements-releases
date: '2022-02-16'
modified_time: 2022-02-19 21:08:53-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/02/16/president-biden-announces-ostp-leadership/
published_time: 2022-02-16 18:09:05-05:00
title: "President\_Biden Announces OSTP\_Leadership"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Joe Biden announced that Dr. Alondra
Nelson will perform the duties of director of the White House Office of
Science and Technology Policy (OSTP) and Dr. Francis Collins will
perform the duties of Science Advisor to the President and Co-Chair of
the President’s Council of Advisors on Science and Technology until
permanent leadership is nominated and confirmed. These appointments will
allow OSTP and the President’s Science and Technology agenda to move
seamlessly forward under proven leadership.  
  
Nelson currently serves as OSTP’s Deputy Director for Science and
Society. Nelson has directed priority efforts to protect the integrity
of science in the federal government, broaden participation in STEM
fields, strengthen the U.S. research infrastructure, and ensure that all
Americans have equitable access to the benefits of new and emerging
technologies and scientific innovation. She has played a key role in
overseeing the implementation of the President’s early directives on
Restoring Trust in Government Through Scientific Integrity and
Evidence-Based Policymaking and on Advancing Racial Equity and Support
for Underserved Communities Through the Federal Government.  
  
Collins recently stepped down as the director of the National Institutes
of Health, after serving as its Director for more than 12 years, under
three Presidents. As the longest serving Presidentially-appointed
director of NIH he oversaw the work of the largest supporter of
biomedical research in the world, from basic to clinical research. He
was awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom in November 2007. He will
continue to run a research lab at NIH, which he has run since 1993.  
  
In the selections of Dr. Alondra Nelson and Dr. Francis Collins,
President Biden has doubled down on science. The selections are
responsive to the dual importance of a strong OSTP that can drive
science and technology solutions to our greatest challenges – and the
very specific attention the President wants to give to the creation of a
new ARPA-H research and discovery agency, the building of support for a
Cancer Moonshot, the search for a new head of NIH, and the broad
advisory work of PCAST.  
  
**Dr. Alondra Nelson, Deputy Director of Science and Society of OSTP and
Performing the Duties of Director of OSTP  
**  
Alondra Nelson, Ph.D., serves as the inaugural Deputy Director for
Science and Society in the White House Office of Science and Technology
Policy. In this role, she brings social science expertise, including
attention to issues of social inequality, explicitly into the work of
Federal science and technology strategy and policy. Dr. Nelson is also
Harold F. Linder Chair and Professor at the Institute for Advanced
Study, an independent research center in Princeton, NJ. She was
president of the Social Science Research Council, an international
research nonprofit from 2017-2021. She was previously professor of
sociology at Columbia University, where she also served as the inaugural
Dean of Social Science. Dr. Nelson’s research contributions are situated
at the intersection of political and social citizenship, on the one
hand, and emerging science and technology, on the other. Dr. Nelson
connects these dimensions in a range of widely acclaimed publications,
including, most recently, The Social Life of DNA. Dr. Nelson is a member
of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, the American Academy of
Political and Social Science, the American Philosophical Society, and
the National Academy of Medicine.  
  
**Dr. Francis Collins, Acting Science Advisor to the President and
Acting Co-Chair of the President’s Council of Advisors on Science and
Technology**  
  
Francis S. Collins, M.D., Ph.D., is the former director of the National
Institutes of Health (NIH). As the longest serving
Presidentially-appointed director of NIH — spanning 12 years and three
presidencies — he oversaw the work of the largest supporter of
biomedical research in the world, from basic to clinical research. Dr.
Collins is a physician-geneticist noted for his landmark discoveries of
disease genes and his leadership of the international Human Genome
Project, which culminated in April 2003 with the completion of a
finished sequence of the human DNA instruction book. Dr. Collins’
research laboratory has discovered a number of important genes,
including those responsible for cystic fibrosis, neurofibromatosis,
Huntington’s disease, a familial endocrine cancer syndrome, and most
recently, genes for type 2 diabetes, and the gene that causes
Hutchinson-Gilford progeria syndrome, a rare condition that causes
premature aging. Dr. Collins is an elected member of the Institute of
Medicine and the National Academy of Sciences. Dr. Collins was awarded
the Presidential Medal of Freedom in November 2007, the National Medal
of Science in 2009, and the Templeton Prize in 2020.

\###
