---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2022-02-11'
modified_time: 2022-02-12 09:21:23-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/02/11/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-on-funding-in-the-bipartisan-infrastructure-law-to-remove-and-replace-lead-pipes/
published_time: 2022-02-11 11:48:00-05:00
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris on Funding in the Bipartisan Infrastructure\
  \ Law to Remove and Replace Lead\_Pipes"
---
 
*Training Recreation Education Center*

*Newark, New Jersey*

11:48 A.M. EST  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Governor Murphy.  And it is wonderful to
be back in New Jersey, the home state of my husband and a place where I
have spent a good amount of time over many years.  
  
I want to thank you, Governor, for your role of leadership.  You and I
talked when you greeted me on the tarmac, but your signature on
legislation to remove all lead pipes from New Jersey over the course of
10 years — which is a relatively short amount of time, given how long
this issue has been an issue — is extraordinary and is part of the role
model of how we are looking at what we can do as a nation.  
  
So, thank you for the warm welcome always.  
  
Mayor, I thank you.  Newark, New Jersey, is such an important place in
our country for so many reasons, in terms of its history, in terms of
its vitality, in terms of its contribution to who we are as a nation. 
And this has been a longstanding issue.   
  
And you came in, cut through red tape, made this a high priority, and
have now made it such a role model that for the Administrator and I, who
have taken to — a road show to talk about the importance of removing
lead from pipes and paint — we came here at the beginning of this tour
to highlight what you have accomplished here in Newark as an example and
a role model of what cities around our country are capable of doing.  I
thank you for that.    
  
MAYOR BARAKA:  Thank you.  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  I thank you for that.  (Applause.)  
  
MAYOR BARAKA:  Thank you.  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  We purposely designed this visit today to hear from
our community leaders, but we know that — the work that can be done as a
nation on eliminating this lead, which is having a profound impact on
our children, on our most vulnerable communities.  
  
We came here because these are community leaders who are also role
models for the nation, where we have met many community leaders,
Administrator, around the country who have been the voice of conscience,
with clear purpose and commitment and courage, to propel this issue in a
way that we would act, and act in a way that was not incremental but
about achieving what we know is possible, which is to get rid of this
problem.  It’s hurting our babies.   
  
     Over half of the children of our nation who are under the age of
six are at risk on this issue.  It is well-documented and, at this
point, without debate what this does in terms of impeding the God-given
capacity of our children to learn and to thrive.    
  
It is a public health issue.  It is an equity issue.  It is an issue of
education.  It is an issue of whether we are willing to invest in our
future in terms of investing in our communities.  
  
All that is what is present on this topic.  
  
So I thank the community leaders.  I thank the elected leaders.  I see
my dear friend, Senator Cory Booker, here, and Senator Bob Menendez, the
Chairman of a most important committee, especially at this point.  And I
want to thank you too because I have served with them in the United
States Senate, and I know, based on personal experience and as a witness
of what they did in the Senate to make sure that federal dollars would
come to New Jersey with speed and priority to address this issue.   
  
So I want to acknowledge and thank the senators for your role of
leadership.  You deserve a lot of credit for that.  (Applause.)  
  
Chairman Pallone, Congressman Donald Payne — we have talked about all
these issues so many times.  You are incredible advocates for this
state, for this district, for the district you represent.  And I
appreciate you always reminding the President and me of what is at stake
on the ground, on this and so many other issues.  So thank you for
that.  
  
And again — (applause) — I want to thank the community members.  We’ll
get into a more in-depth conversation.  I’m about to pass the microphone
over to the Administrator.  But I cannot tell you enough how important
your roles of leadership have been to remind community leaders around
the country that when you speak up, often with great frustration but
with great purpose and courage, it matters and it makes a difference.   
  
You all are role models for community leaders around the country who may
have — through their frustration and pain with this issue have thought
that — and wondered whether it makes a difference.  You all are proof
that it makes a difference.  It makes a difference.  
  
So I thank you for that.  And with that, I will now pass the mic over to
the Administrator of the Environmental and — Protection Agency for all
of his work in pushing this through our administration.  Michael Regan. 
(Applause.)  
  
(The roundtable discussion begins.)  
  
(The roundtable discussion concludes.)  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yeah, I — you know, just briefly, because so much
has been said that needs to be said.  This is about a matter of great
urgency and, obviously, a matter that is about our children and
investing in their health and wellbeing.  So that makes this a public
health issue — a public health crisis, dare I say.   
  
This is an issue that is about community leadership.  And on any issue
that we face as a nation — certainly any issue that reaches crisis
proportion — let’s use this as an example of where community leadership
always leads us in the right direction.  Let us think of this as an
issue that is, yes, Ms.  Carter, about — it’s about education, and then
the intersection that always exists between public health and education,
because that’s always a link.  Where you see a public health matter
that, in particular, affects children, you will find an educational
issue.   
  
This is an issue that is about America’s workforce and the excellence of
that workforce, because we have created structures that allow for
incredible training and skills development.  And when we do the
partnership between elected leaders and governments — and, in
particular, on this issue, our building trades, the workers who have the
skill to get the job done — then we see that the job actually gets
done.   
  
So, all of these issues come together around not only the crisis, but
really we are here to not talk about the crisis as much as the
solution.  The solution is evident.  And so, the Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law, the Biden-Harris Lead Pipe and Paint Action Plan is
about using this as a model of what we will do around the country.   
  
And for that reason, I thank everybody, because it’s not — difficult to
be a role model because you got to kind of create it on your own, but
you guys did that.  And now other cities and other families and children
around our country will benefit from the work you did right here.  So,
thank you all.   
  
Governor, again, thank you for the warm welcome.   
  
Mayor, thank you for your extraordinary leadership.  
  
To the members of Congress, the senators, the Congress members: I thank
you all.   (Applause.)  
  
                         END                 12:21 P.M. EST
