---
category: statements-releases
date: '2022-02-09'
modified_time: 2022-02-09 14:51:17-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/02/09/remarks-as-prepared-for-delivery-by-first-lady-jill-biden-at-the-university-of-minnesota/
published_time: 2022-02-09 14:51:16-05:00
title: "Remarks as Prepared for Delivery by First Lady Jill\_Biden at the University\
  \ of\_Minnesota"
---
 
Minneapolis, MN

I teach writing at a community college. And one day, I had a student
come in with her 4-year-old. The moment I locked eyes with my student, I
could see her distress, and I knew exactly what happened: Her babysitter
had fallen through but she couldn’t afford to miss the class. She set up
her son with a box of crayons and some paper in the corner of the room,
and I tried to give her a smile when I saw her looking at him
nervously—praying he’d make it through.  

Moms just do what we have to do, don’t we? If the carefully-planned
matrix of work, and school, and drop-offs and pick-ups falls apart, you
just figure it out.

When Joe took office one year ago, schools were shuttered. After heroic
efforts to try to stay open, far too many child care providers were
forced to close or lay off early educators. And millions of women had
left the workforce.

Imagine that mom who went to drop off her children before work one
morning and the doors were closed. Or who didn’t bring them in at all
because she couldn’t risk her family getting sick. There was no vacation
time to make up for missed work. There was no grandma to stay home with
the kids. She needed that job. But she needed to take care of her
children more. 

There was no choice—so she walked away. She kept her family safe—but it
cost her something too. Security. Pride. A sense of purpose. 

For millions of parents, the situation was dire and urgent. That’s why
Joe made a major investment in child care through the American Rescue
Plan.

We helped states like Minnesota safely keep open child care centers, and
family child care providers—and boost pay for their workers. We
supported high-quality providers that enrich children’s lives. And we
helped make them more affordable.

Tim, you understand that child care is not only critical to families,
it’s critical to our businesses and economy. Joe and I are grateful for
your leadership—and for the friendship of you and Gwen. And I’m excited
to hear more today about what you’ve done here in Minnesota to help
families recover from the uncertainty and losses of the pandemic. 

Still, there’s a lot more to do. The challenges families face didn’t
start with COVID-19. And we need fundamental changes if we hope to build
back better than before.   

That’s why Joe believes in investing in high-quality, affordable child
care. It’s why he wants to lower costs for families. It’s why he cares
so much about making preschool universal for all 3- and 4-year-olds. And
so do I.

I’ve never taught early education, but I’ve seen what a difference it
makes in my community college classes. When kids have a strong start, it
helps them learn and succeed for the rest of their lives. And it gives
parents another safe, loving place to send their kids while they work. 

For the last few years, in every city I visited and at nearly every
event—whether we were there to talk about military spouses, or
vaccinations, or community colleges—people have told me that one of
their biggest challenges is child care. 

Families like yours need support. The President knows that and he’s
working to make that support a reality. 

Reliable, affordable, quality, child care and universal preschool would
profoundly change people’s lives. And it is within our reach. That’s
what we’re here to talk about today. 

Now, it’s my pleasure to introduce the Secretary of Health and Human
Services. Secretary Becerra, you’ve worked for years to improve health
care in America—and now, you’ve become a true champion for Joe’s child
care goals. Thank you for your leadership.

\###  
