---
tags: presidential-actions
date: '2021-04-13'
modified_time: 2021-04-14 08:25:43-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/04/13/a-proclamation-on-black-maternal-health-week-2021/
published_time: 2021-04-13 12:06:01-04:00
title: "A Proclamation on Black Maternal Health Week,\_2021"
---
 
In the United States of America, a person’s race should never determine
their health outcomes, and pregnancy and childbirth should be safe for
all.  However, for far too many Black women, safety and equity have been
tragically denied.  America’s maternal mortality rates are among the
highest in the developed world, and they are especially high among Black
mothers, who die from complications related to pregnancy at roughly two
to three times the rate of white, Hispanic, Asian American, and Pacific
Islander women — regardless of their income or education levels.  This
week, I call on all Americans to recognize the importance of addressing
the crisis of Black maternal mortality and morbidity in this country. 

Ensuring that all women have equitable access to health care before,
during, and after pregnancy is essential.  The Biden-Harris
Administration is committed to addressing these unacceptable
disparities, and to building a health care system that delivers equity
and dignity to Black, Indigenous, and other women and girls of color.

Health care is a right, not a privilege, and our country needs a health
care system that works for all of us.  That is something both Vice
President Harris and I have fought for throughout our careers.  As a
Senator, Vice President Harris was a champion of Black maternal health,
introducing legislation to close gaps in access to quality maternal care
and educate providers about implicit bias.  And during my time as Vice
President, I fought for the Affordable Care Act and to strengthen
Medicaid, both of which ensure access to critical services to support
maternal health.  Within just a few years of the Affordable Care Act’s
passage, Black uninsured rates dramatically declined — a key factor in
ensuring better maternal health outcomes — as did the persistent health
insurance coverage gap between Black and white Americans, which fell by
more than 40 percent in the wake of the law’s implementation.

As we fight to bring an end to the COVID-19 crisis, we will continue to
make quality health care more accessible and affordable for all
Americans, as we did through the passage of the landmark American Rescue
Plan.  We will also work to ensure that everyone — including hospitals,
insurance plans, and health care providers — do their part to provide
every American with quality, affordable, and equitable care.

Vice President Harris and I are committed to pursuing systemic policies
that provide comprehensive, holistic maternal health care that is free
from bias and discrimination.  The morbidity and mortality disparities
that Black mothers face are not the results of isolated incidents.  Our
Nation must root out systemic racism everywhere it exists, including by
addressing unequal social determinants of health that often contribute
to racial disparities such as adequate nutrition and housing, toxin-free
environments, high-paying job sectors that provide paid leave, and
workplaces free of harassment and discrimination.

Addressing systemic barriers across the board will improve outcomes for
Black mothers and their families, and make our entire country stronger,
healthier, and more prosperous.  At the same time, the United States
must also grow and diversify the perinatal workforce, improve how we
collect data to better understand the causes of maternal death and
complications from birth, and invest in community-based organizations to
help reduce the glaring racial and ethnic disparities that persist
in our health care system. 

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim April 11 through
April 17, 2021, as Black Maternal Health Week.  I call upon all
Americans to raise awareness of the state of Black maternal health in
the United States by understanding the consequences of systemic
discrimination, recognizing the scope of this problem and the need for
urgent solutions, amplifying the voices and experiences of Black women,
families, and communities, and committing to building a world in which
Black women do not have to fear for their safety, their wellbeing, their
dignity, and their lives before, during, and after pregnancy.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirteenth day of
April, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-fifth.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
