---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2021-04-22'
modified_time: 2021-04-22 07:56:41-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/04/22/a-proclamation-on-earth-day-2021/
published_time: 2021-04-22 07:56:40-04:00
title: "A Proclamation on Earth Day,\_2021"
---
 
     On April 22, 1970, millions of Americans rallied together to
protect the right of all of us to live free from environmental hazard
and harm.  On that first Earth Day, they gathered all across America —
on college campuses, in public parks, and State capitals — galvanized by
a vision of a healthier, more prosperous Nation where all people could
thrive.  Their untiring spirit sparked a national movement for
environmental protection that endures today in the bedrock laws that
protect the air we breathe, the water we drink, and treasured wild
places and wildlife.

     Earth Day was primarily conceived and brought to life by a
dedicated public servant:  the late Senator Gaylord Nelson of
Wisconsin.  Senator Nelson and his wife, Carrie Lee -– who herself
passed away just last month –- were both dear friends who changed my
life; it was Senator Nelson who helped persuade me to remain in the
Senate after losing my first wife and daughter in a car accident in
1972.  Senator Nelson changed the world, too, by building a legacy of
environmental protection through Earth Day and all of the progress that
has come in its wake –- not because it was popular, but because it was
the right thing to do for our children and grandchildren.

     Over half a century later, that legacy lives on in the chorus of
courageous young people across the world who are rising up to demand
action on climate change.  They recognize the enormous economic
opportunity to build a brighter, more prosperous future, and the dire
economic, societal, and national security consequences of failing to
act.  Our youth remind us that a better world is within our grasp.
 Today, I say to young people fighting for a brighter future:  We hear
you.  We see you.  We will not let you down.

     In recent years, climate change has upended the lives of millions
of Americans.  Record cold weather knocked out the electric grid in
Texas this winter, killing at least 111 people and disrupting the lives
and livelihoods of millions more.  Wildfires tore through more than 5
million acres across the American West — an area roughly the size of the
entire State of New Jersey burned to the ground.  Last year,
back-to-back hurricanes and powerful tropical storms battered the Gulf
and East Coasts in the worst Atlantic hurricane season in recorded
history.  Record floods, hurricane-speed windstorms, and severe droughts
devastated families and communities across the Midwest.  People have
lost homes and irreplaceable memories of their loved ones, small
businesses built from years of tireless labor and sacrifice, farmland
meant to be passed on to the next generation, and so much more.

     At the same time, Black, Latino, Indigenous, and other communities
of color continue to be hit hardest by the impacts of climate change.
 They bear the highest burden of pollution, face higher rates of heart
and lung disease, are least likely to have safe drinking water in their
homes, and suffer increased risk of death from COVID-19.  These
communities have also frequently been shut out of government decisions
that directly bear on their interests.  We have an obligation to correct
these historic wrongs and to build a future where all people have clean
air to breathe, clean water to drink, healthy communities in which they
can live, work, and learn, and a meaningful voice in their future.

     That is why my Administration is advancing the most ambitious
climate agenda in our Nation’s history.  Our clean energy plan will
create millions of good-paying union jobs, ensure our economic
competitiveness, and improve the health and security of communities
across America.  By making those investments and putting millions of
Americans to work, the United States will be able to cut our greenhouse
gas emissions in half by 2030.

     Our success in confronting the climate crisis will not be ours
alone.  It will be shaped, bolstered, and ultimately won by a united
pledge from global leaders to set the world on a path to a clean energy
future.  Today, on the fifth anniversary of the United States ratifying
the Paris Agreement, we have brought nations from across the world
together to meet the moment and raise our climate ambitions.  

     More than 50 years ago, a generation rallied to confront the
environmental crises they faced.  They took action in hopes that those
in power would listen.  Today, a new generation is sounding the alarm
louder than ever, demanding that world leaders act.  It is in all our
interests to rise to that challenge and let our legacy be one of action.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim April
22, 2021, as Earth Day.  I encourage all Americans to engage in programs
and activities that will promote an understanding of environmental
protection, the urgency of climate change, and the need to create a
healthier, safer, more equitable future for all people.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-second
day of April, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-fifth.

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
