---
tags: presidential-actions
date: '2021-04-30'
modified_time: 2021-04-30 16:24:12-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/04/30/a-proclamation-on-public-service-recognition-week-2021/
published_time: 2021-04-30 16:24:11-04:00
title: "A Proclamation on Public Service Recognition Week,\_2021"
---
 
In the face of unprecedented challenges this past year, America’s
dedicated public servants have risen to the moment — bringing strength,
healing, and hope to their communities and to our Nation. Our public
servants are a living reminder that, here in America, we take care of
one another and leave no one behind. As we work to defeat the pandemic
and rebuild our economy, it is more important than ever to recognize and
reflect upon both our collective loss and our collective resilience.
During Public Service Recognition Week, we celebrate and thank our
public servants at the local, State, and Federal levels who exemplify
dedication to the common good.

Public servants are the lifeblood of our democracy. They are our
researchers and scientists, our front-line workers, our educators, our
first responders, our election officials, and our military service
members — among countless others. They are ordinary Americans who answer
the call to do extraordinary things, giving their time — and, in some
cases, risking or giving their lives — to make life better for all of
us.

Throughout this week and beyond, my Administration will be shining a
light on the individual and collective efforts of public servants at the
local, State, Tribal, and Federal levels who unite us and help lead us
through challenging times. In the toughest of circumstances and often at
great personal sacrifice, our public servants tackle the most complex
problems facing our communities. Whether developing public health
guidance and working across agencies to safely reopen schools during the
pandemic, partnering with the private sector to develop and distribute
vaccines, keeping small businesses dreams alive, or combating natural
disasters in their hometowns, public servants demonstrate their
commitment to our Nation every day. It is our responsibility, in turn,
to ensure that they are honored and protected.

Since taking office earlier this year, I have made it the policy of the
United States to protect, empower, and rebuild the career Federal
workforce. My Administration made employee safety a priority — directing
agencies to create COVID-19 workplace safety plans and require
mask-wearing, physical distancing, and other public health measures in
Federal buildings and on Federal lands. I revoked several Executive
Orders that undermined the foundations of civil service, worked to
ensure the right of Federal employees to engage in collective
bargaining, and created a new interagency task force to ensure that
Federal employees engaged in scientific research and data collection are
never subjected to political interference.

In addition, I have strengthened protections against discrimination for
Federal employees, including discrimination on the basis of gender
identity or sexual orientation. I have also asked the Director of the
Office of Personnel Management to provide me with recommendations to
promote a $15 per hour minimum wage for Federal employees, as well as
recommendations for expanding the Federal Government’s policy of
providing employees time off to vote. And this week, I signed an
Executive Order that will increase the minimum wage for employees
working on Federal contracts to $15 per hour.

Together, as we strive to build, support, and continuously improve our
public workforce, we recognize and celebrate the indispensable
contributions our public servants make while protecting our communities,
taking care of our neighbors, and helping us heal and build back better.
It is the honor of my lifetime to serve our Nation alongside our public
servants, who work tirelessly to improve the lives of Americans and
people around the globe.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim May 2 through May
8, 2021, as Public Service Recognition Week. I call upon all Americans
to celebrate public servants and their contributions this week and
throughout the year.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirtieth day of
April, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-fifth.

                                 JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
