---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2021-04-30'
modified_time: 2021-04-30 16:43:22-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/04/30/a-proclamation-on-national-teacher-appreciation-day-and-national-teacher-appreciation-week-2021/
published_time: 2021-04-30 16:43:21-04:00
title: A Proclamation on National Teacher Appreciation Day and National Teacher Appreciation
  Week, 2021
---
 
As the proud husband of an educator who continues, as First Lady, to
teach writing at a community college, I have seen firsthand the
dedication, selflessness, and vision of our Nation’s educators.  They
play so many different roles:  They are mentors who guide with
creativity and care; advocates who fight for students’ needs; role
models who help students dream and dare more boldly; and leaders who
tirelessly support the families and communities that depend on them. 
Every day, with every student they reach, educators build the future of
our country, and we are grateful for their commitment to our shared
future.  This National Teacher Appreciation Day and National Teacher
Appreciation Week, we honor the service and passion and celebrate the
immeasurable contributions of our Nation’s educators in schools from
coast to coast.

Throughout history, America’s educators have risen to unprecedented
challenges.  Over the past year, with our country facing a cascade of
crises, educators have risen to this challenge with care and creativity:
 overcoming disruptions in their own lives while offering unwavering
support for their students’ wellbeing and academic progress. 

Educators served both as facilitators of learning and as the technology
support for their students, getting them up and running with access to
fully remote learning.  They often worked late into the day to support
hard-to-reach children, and took the extracurriculars their students
love and adapted them for remote and hybrid learning.  Our teachers even
found new ways to leverage technology platforms to coordinate with
parents as partners in learning, keep a close eye on the development of
their students, and build community by moving music rehearsals and
sports practices online. 

As this pandemic has shined a bright light on the inequities that
persist in our schools, educators have also fought for the tools and
resources their schools need to bridge gaps and ensure all children have
what they need to succeed.  Other school staff and administrators have
also stepped up in our time of need, with bus drivers bringing hotspots
to areas with no wireless internet, food service staff preparing meals
for students who might otherwise go hungry, and counselors helping
students and parents cope with trauma. 

When I took office, I vowed to support our educators by giving them the
pay and dignity they deserve.  I made a promise that they would not only
have a voice as we work to rebuild and reimagine our education system,
they would help us lead this effort.  That is why my Administration is
partnering with State and local leaders, educators and their unions, and
families to ensure high-quality instruction, overcome the challenges of
the instructional time we lost in the pandemic, address educational
inequities, and meet students’ physical, social, and emotional needs.  

In early March, I prioritized early childhood through 12th grade
educators and staff for vaccination, and I set a goal of getting all of
these frontline essential workers at least one shot by the end of the
month.  On April 2nd, I announced that 80 percent of all teachers,
school staff, and childcare workers across the country had received at
least one dose of the COVID-19 vaccine. Since then, we have made even
more progress in protecting our educators. 

The American Rescue Plan is providing critical relief, including $122
billion in relief for K-12 schools to get students back in the classroom
quickly and safely and address the needs of students.  In addition, the
American Rescue Plan includes $7.6 billion for special education,
children and youth experiencing homelessness, Tribal educational
agencies, Native Hawaiians, and Alaska Natives, emergency assistance to
non-public schools, and the outlying areas of American Samoa, the
Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, Guam, and the U.S. Virgin
Islands, as well as $40 billion for higher education.

Education is the one field that makes all others possible.  Every one of
us has been shaped by someone who inspired our curiosity and helped us
find our confidence, who guided us to think more clearly and pushed us
to strive for better.  On National Teacher Appreciation Day and during
National Teacher Appreciation Week, we remember the tremendous debt of
gratitude owed to educators everywhere who helped define us as
individuals and as a country, and to all that they are doing to light
the way forward for our families and our communities. 

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim May 4, 2021, as
National Teacher Appreciation Day and May 2 through May 8, 2021, as
National Teacher Appreciation Week.  I call upon all Americans to
recognize the hard work and dedication of our Nation’s teachers and to
observe this day and this week by supporting teachers through
appropriate activities, events, and programs.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirtieth day of
April, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-fifth.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
