---
tags: presidential-actions
date: '2021-04-16'
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/04/16/a-proclamation-on-national-volunteer-week-2021/
published_time: 2021-04-16 17:34:56-04:00
title: "A Proclamation on National Volunteer Week,\_2021"
---
 
We are living in a moment that calls for hope and light and love.  Hope
for our futures, light to see our way forward, and love for one another.
 Volunteers provide all three.  Service — the act of looking out for one
another — is part of who we are as a Nation.  Our commitment to service
reflects our understanding that we can best meet our challenges when we
join together.  This week, we recognize the enduring contributions of
our Nation’s volunteers and encourage more Americans to join their
ranks. 

     The tremendous power of volunteers and volunteerism has been on
dramatic display in our response to the COVID-19 pandemic.  All across
the country, retired doctors and nurses, students and veterans,
personnel from across the Federal Government, and countless others have
given their time and talent to administer vaccines, staff vaccination
centers, boost testing, tracing, and other life-saving public health
measures, and provide food, water, and other necessities to those at
heightened risk so they can remain safely at home.

     Volunteers of all ages and walks of life have stepped forward in
other ways to meet this moment.  When a severe winter storm left
millions without power in Texas and wildfires ravaged our Western
States, neighbors from near and far provided food, shelter, and support.
 Throughout this unprecedented year, people across America have given
help and hope by checking on isolated seniors, helping the jobless, and
tutoring students to help them stay on track in school.  Their
compassion reminds us that even in our darkest hours, Americans look out
for one another.

     To meet the unprecedented challenges of today and build back better
for tomorrow, we must unite around a renewed commitment to service and
to civic duty.  As we work to defeat the pandemic, strengthen our
economy, address racial inequity, and tackle the climate crisis, we need
more Americans to get involved.  Government cannot do the job alone, but
government — working together with nonprofits and community
organizations, the private sector, and the American people — can make
our country stronger, more prosperous, and ready for the future.

     When more Americans step forward to serve, it renews our sense of
community and strengthens our democracy.  Acts of service unite people
from different backgrounds and allow us to truly see and hear one
another.  

     By helping others, volunteers also help themselves.  They learn new
skills, expand their professional networks, connect with neighbors, and
experience the satisfaction that comes from serving a larger cause.
 Service can provide a pathway to employment, education, and other
career-building opportunities.  As we reopen our economy and build back
better, volunteerism can help the unemployed find work and make our
communities more resilient and prepared.

     The Biden-Harris Administration is committed to expanding service
opportunities for Americans, including opportunities that enable us to
confront the toughest challenges faced by our Nation.  The American
Rescue Plan includes a historic investment in AmeriCorps to make
national service more accessible.  We seek to enable more service
members and volunteers to support vaccination efforts, tackle the
growing hunger crisis, address learning loss, and meet other critical
community needs.

     During National Volunteer Week, we celebrate the millions of
Americans who volunteer and encourage more to follow their path.  Every
American has something to give.  No matter your age, background, or
where you come from, you can have an impact through service.  Vice
President Harris and I salute every American who takes time to help
their neighbors, and we applaud the extraordinary faith-based,
nonprofit, national service, military service, and community
organizations that make this service possible.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim April
18 through April 24, 2021, as National Volunteer Week.  I call upon all
Americans to observe this week by volunteering in service projects
across the country and pledging to make service a part of their daily
lives.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this sixteenth day
of April, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-fifth.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
