---
tags: presidential-actions
date: '2021-04-09'
modified_time: 2021-04-09 12:22:18-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/04/09/executive-order-on-the-establishment-of-the-presidential-commission-on-the-supreme-court-of-the-united-states/
published_time: 2021-04-09 12:22:16-04:00
title: "Executive Order on the Establishment of the Presidential Commission on the\
  \ Supreme Court of the United\_States"
---
 
      By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and
the laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered as
follows:

     Section 1.  Establishment.  There is established the Presidential
Commission on the Supreme Court of the United States (Commission).

     Sec. 2.  Membership.  (a)  The Commission shall be composed of not
more than 36 members appointed by the President.

     (b)  Members of the Commission shall be distinguished
constitutional scholars, retired members of the Federal judiciary, or
other individuals having experience with and knowledge of the Federal
judiciary and the Supreme Court of the United States (Supreme Court). 

     (c)  The President shall designate two members of the Commission to
serve as Co-Chairs.

     Sec. 3.  Functions.  (a)  The Commission shall produce a report for
the President that includes the following:

\(i\)    An account of the contemporary commentary and debate about the
role and operation of the Supreme Court in our constitutional system and
about the functioning of the constitutional process by which the
President nominates and, by and with the advice and consent of the
Senate, appoints Justices to the Supreme Court;  

\(ii\)   The historical background of other periods in the Nation’s
history when the Supreme Court’s role and the nominations and
advice-and-consent process were subject to critical assessment and
prompted proposals for reform; and  

(iii)  An analysis of the principal arguments in the contemporary public
debate for and against Supreme Court reform, including an appraisal of
the merits and legality of particular reform proposals.

     (b)  The Commission shall solicit public comment, including other
expert views, to ensure that its work is informed by a broad spectrum of
ideas.

     (c)  The Commission shall submit its report to the President within
180 days of the date of the Commission’s first public meeting.

     Sec. 4.  Administration.  (a)  The Office of Administration within
the Executive Office of the President shall provide funding and
administrative support for the Commission to the extent permitted by law
and within existing appropriations.  To the extent permitted by law,
including the Economy Act (31 U.S.C. 1535), and subject to the
availability of appropriations, the General Services Administration
shall provide administrative services, including facilities, staff,
equipment, and other support services as may be necessary to carry out
the objectives of the Commission.

     (b)  Members of the Commission shall serve without compensation for
their work on the Commission, but shall be allowed travel expenses,
including per diem in lieu of subsistence, to the extent permitted by
law for persons serving intermittently in the Government service (5
U.S.C. 5701-5707).

     (c)  Insofar as the Federal Advisory Committee Act, as amended (5
U.S.C. App.) (Act), may apply to the Commission, any functions of the
President under the Act, except for those in section 6 of the Act, shall
be performed by the Administrator of General Services.

     Sec. 5.  Termination.  The Commission shall terminate 30 days after
it submits its report to the President.

     Sec. 6.  General Provisions.  (a)  Nothing in this order shall be
construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i)   the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency,
or the head thereof; or

(ii)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

     (b)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law
and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or
benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by
any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.

THE WHITE HOUSE,  
April 9, 2021.
