---
tags: presidential-actions
date: '2021-04-30'
modified_time: 2021-04-30 16:40:39-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/04/30/a-proclamation-on-national-physical-fitness-and-sports-month-2021/
published_time: 2021-04-30 16:40:38-04:00
title: "A Proclamation on National Physical Fitness And Sports Month,\_2021"
---
 
Despite the unprecedented challenges and disruptions of the past year,
we continue to see examples of Americans finding innovative ways to stay
active and healthy.  Some have moved their workouts into their living
rooms or garages.  Others have taken up new sports.  Many have simply
rediscovered the satisfaction of a walk through their neighborhood. 
Despite this creativity, far too many people struggle to incorporate
regular physical activity into their daily lives.  Socioeconomic
disparities, lack of opportunities for safe play, and limited access to
programs for increased activity are just a few of the inequities that
many Americans face — inequities that have been further exacerbated by
the pandemic.  During this National Physical Fitness and Sports Month,
we encourage all Americans to stay active for their health and
wellbeing.  Whether by pursuing a more active lifestyle, making physical
activity a priority and an essential part of everyday living, or
supporting efforts in local communities that increase access to sports
and physical fitness opportunities for all, participating in physical
activities leads to a healthier lifestyle.

Physical activity is one of the best tools we have to help combat
chronic diseases experienced by over half of all Americans.  Even a
single session of moderate-to-vigorous physical activity can boost your
mood, sharpen your focus, reduce your stress, and improve your sleep. 
More regular physical activity — over months or years — can contribute
to a reduced risk of depression, heart disease, several types of cancer,
dementia, type 2 diabetes, and obesity.

No matter our age or ability, the more that we can make regular physical
activity and participation in sports a part of our lives, the better off
both we and our Nation will be.  Greater amounts of physical activity
can have positive effects in every stage of life and lead to better
overall health outcomes for both children and adults, including those
with disabilities.  The Department of Health and Human Services’ Move
Your Way campaign provides helpful tips to encourage children and adults
to meet the recommendations from the *Physical Activity Guidelines for
Americans*.  The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention’s Active
People, Healthy Nation initiative provides a blueprint for building
active communities to make it easier for all Americans to attain the
physical activity they need, with a goal of getting 27 million more
Americans physically active by 2027. 

By transcending differences and uniting in celebration of physical
activity, healthy competition, and shared enjoyment, sports are a fun
and engaging way to stay active and keep fit for people of all ages. 
For our Nation’s youth, playing sports can also help to build confidence
on and off the field, while team sports foster the added virtues of
service to common causes and communal responsibility — win or lose,
every game offers the opportunity to learn something new or hone your
skills.  Every athletic challenge is an avenue to greater mental and
physical resilience.  While social distancing has made participation in
organized sports challenging, we can use this time to renew our focus on
fundamental skills and training in preparation for a return to play,
especially for young athletes. 

Our Nation can and must do more to make sure that every child has the
opportunity to play sports and obtain the benefits that come with play,
including greater physical fitness and better health.  As we recover
from the COVID-19 pandemic, it is more important than ever that we
ensure equal access to sports and fitness activities for everyone.  To
that end, my Administration continues to promote programs that provide
opportunities for all of our young people to play sports — regardless of
their race, ethnicity, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity,
religion, disability, or neighborhood — in support of the *National
Youth Sports Strategy*.

I encourage every American to discover an enjoyable exercise activity
that fits into their daily routine.  It does not matter how you choose
to be active — whether you are trying your hand at a new sport,
exploring a local park, or going for a walk or a jog in your own
neighborhood, physical activity holds the key to better health and
wellness.  During National Physical Fitness and Sports Month, let us all
strive to be more active together.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim May 2021 as
National Physical Fitness and Sports Month. I call upon the people of
the United States to make daily physical activity a priority, to support
efforts to increase access to sports opportunities in their communities,
and to pursue physical fitness as an essential part of healthy living.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirtieth day of
April, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-fifth.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
