---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2021-04-05'
modified_time: 2021-04-05 09:58:31-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/04/05/a-proclamation-on-national-public-health-week-2021/
published_time: 2021-04-05 09:58:30-04:00
title: A Proclamation on National Public Health Week, 2021
---
 
National Public Health Week has increased significance this year, as our
Nation mourns the loss of more than half a million lives to COVID-19,
and as we have come to recognize just how essential our public health
efforts and public health workers truly are. Whether it is the
scientists and researchers who developed life-saving vaccines in record
time; or local leaders who have taken evidence-based action to keep
their communities safe; or the staff and volunteers who have worked to
slow the spread of the virus through testing, case investigation, and
contact tracing; or the doctors, nurses, and clinicians who continue to
provide around-the-clock care to those who have fallen ill, dedicated
public health professionals on the front lines of our response to
COVID-19 deserve our gratitude.

During National Public Health Week, we ask everyone to come together to
help restore the health of our Nation.  Every American can do their
patriotic duty for their neighbors, their loved ones, and our country by
continuing to wear masks as recommended by the Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention, practicing physical distancing, getting the
COVID-19 vaccine when it is their turn, and by expressing gratitude to
public health professionals who are seeing us through this crisis and
who are building a more robust, comprehensive, and equitable public
health system for all.

While defeating the coronavirus is our top public health priority, our
Nation must also focus on improving our overall health and wellbeing. 
Greater health is good for us all, and it will bolster our national
resilience in the face of new and existing threats.  The United States
must prioritize and continually invest in our public health system to
aggressively address health disparities that have been exposed and
worsened by COVID-19.  We must also address the environmental and
climate factors — air and water pollution, extreme weather, and
climate-related disaster events — that threaten public health in
communities nationwide.  The American Jobs Plan will help to achieve
these goals, including by ensuring that children who live along highways
and fence lines of industrial facilities will breathe easier because of
significant investments in clean energy and infrastructure that promotes
public health.  Our Nation must also take commonsense steps to address
the gun violence public health epidemic, including actions to counter
the historic spike in homicides occurring in cities across the country
and disproportionately affecting Black and brown Americans.  Only by
addressing the root causes of health inequity can we build a fairer,
stronger, more dependable health system for all Americans.

My Administration is committed to investing in our public health system
to not only defeat the pandemic, but also to build a stronger public
health system that allows us to be ready for the next virus.  The
American Rescue Plan provides critical funding to increase the number of
vaccination sites, which will help us get Americans vaccinated more
quickly so that we can get back to our lives and loved ones.  The law
also invests in COVID-19 containment measures such as testing and
contact tracing, funds our efforts to strengthen domestic supply chains
for critical medical equipment, and makes health insurance more
affordable and accessible for millions of Americans.  Finally, the law
invests in crucial measures like air quality monitoring, water and sewer
infrastructure, and brownfield remediation so that Americans in every
community can live in a healthy environment.

The American Rescue Plan does more than put checks in Americans’ pockets
— it provides assistance to help stabilize State, local, Tribal, and
territorial budgets and keep vital public health services running.  It
provides the resources schools need to reopen safely, allowing students
to return to the classroom and alleviating the negative health effects
that come from isolation, changes in routines, and loss of learning.
 The American Rescue Plan will also mobilize a generation of future
leaders to serve in an enhanced public health workforce, increasing our
long-term public health capacity.  This law also provides much-needed
help to nearly 1,400 Community Health Centers that serve our most
vulnerable populations, who are at the highest risk of infection and
adverse outcomes from COVID-19.

As we continue working tirelessly to defeat the pandemic and build a
stronger public health system for the future, I ask every American to
mark National Public Health Week by remembering all those who give their
time, expertise, and care — and even put their lives on the line — in
service of a healthier, safer, and stronger America for all of us.  

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim April 5 through
April 11, 2021, as National Public Health Week.  I call on all citizens,
government agencies, private businesses, non-profit organizations, and
other groups to join in activities and take action to improve the health
of our Nation.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this fifth day of April,
in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty‑one, and of the Independence
of the United States of America the two hundred and forty-fifth.

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
