---
tags: presidential-actions
date: '2021-04-01'
modified_time: 2021-04-01 17:15:59-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/04/01/a-proclamation-on-world-autism-awareness-day-2021/
published_time: 2021-04-01 17:15:58-04:00
title: "A Proclamation on World Autism Awareness Day,\_2021"
---
 
On World Autism Awareness Day, we celebrate the countless ways that
people with autism contribute to our families, our communities, our
Nation, and the world, and we shine a light on the systemic barriers
people with autism face in their daily lives. 

More than 2 percent of American adults and 1 in every 54 of our children
have autism — a community of millions who deserve to live full lives of
dignity and respect.  My Administration is committed to funding
cutting-edge research to help us to better understand autism and related
health conditions in order to improve quality of life for people with
autism and their families in every community.

Recent Government initiatives have focused on detecting autism in the
first year of life, funding new national research networks to improve
our knowledge of autism, and advancing services and support to help
Americans with autism live independently in their communities.  A recent
apprenticeship initiative from the Department of Labor seeks to open up
career pathways for people with autism and other developmental
disabilities in thriving fields like information technology and health
care.  Investments like these and others that we continue to pursue are
critical to expanding possibilities and improving life for all people
with autism.

Meanwhile, agencies across the Federal Government are working to protect
the rights of all people with disabilities — including people with
autism — while also advancing equity when it comes to accessing vital
services and supports.  Our research agencies are working to reduce
barriers in access to early diagnoses, interventions, and services for
people with autism — including those from diverse racial, ethnic, and
cultural backgrounds and rural communities — and to incorporate the
perspectives of individuals with autism in scientific research.  For too
long, disparities in access to health care, education, and services have
placed an undue burden on individuals with disabilities and their loved
ones, particularly those from underserved communities.  My
Administration is committed to addressing these inequities in
partnership with the Interagency Autism Coordinating Committee and the
National Autism Coordinator of the Department of Health and Human
Services.

We also recognize that the COVID-19 pandemic has caused unique
disruptions to, and placed new strains on, the lives of individuals with
autism and their families.  All Americans should be grateful for the
creativity and dedication of educators, health care providers, and
others who have rapidly adapted to the limitations of the pandemic by
offering virtual learning, telehealth appointments, and other remote
services.  My Administration is working tirelessly to get America
vaccinated, get our children safely back in school, and deliver direct
economic relief to families across the country in order to end this year
of disruption and alleviate as much of the burden as possible.  In
addition, agencies including the Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention, the National Institutes of Health, and the Department of
Education are hard at work developing data-driven guidance to help
people with disabilities and their families mitigate the far-reaching
effects of the pandemic.

Today, we honor those with autism and recommit ourselves to providing
them and their families with the investment, support, and care they need
to live independently, fully participate in their communities, and live
fulfilling lives of dignity and opportunity.  

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim April 2, 2021, as
World Autism Awareness Day.  I call upon all Americans to learn more
about autism to improve early diagnosis, to learn more about the
experiences of autistic people from autistic people, and to build more
welcoming and inclusive communities to support people with autism.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this first day of April,
in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of the Independence
of the United States of America the two hundred and forty-fifth.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
