---
tags: presidential-actions
date: '2021-04-30'
modified_time: 2021-04-30 16:45:55-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/04/30/a-proclamation-on-loyalty-day-2021/
published_time: 2021-04-30 16:45:29-04:00
title: "A Proclamation on Loyalty Day,\_2021"
---
 
On Loyalty Day, we celebrate our allegiance to the project of this great
Nation and the democratic ideals woven into the fabric of our
Constitution. As Americans, we do not command loyalty, but seek to earn
it through our actions — including by living up to the principles
enshrined in our Constitution and respecting the will of the people as
reflected in the democratic process. Drawn together by the promise of
equality, freedom, and justice, we are a Nation of shared ideals and
strong, resilient people. Here in America, loyalty does not mean fealty
to any one leader or political party, nor does it mean unthinking praise
or willful ignorance of our shortcomings — it means loyalty to our
common ideals, and to one another. It means standing united as one
people, even as we cherish our differences and respect dissent.

Our country is a diverse tapestry of many cultures, heritages,
religions, and languages, brought together around the values and ideals
we all share as Americans. Together, we celebrate our differences and
draw strength from our common commitment to perfecting our Union. No
matter what challenges come our way, our Nation holds strong together —
bound by our Constitution and the rule of law, uplifted by individual
liberties and promises of justice we have worked hard in each generation
to secure and expand, and consecrated by those who have sacrificed to
preserve, defend, and care for our Nation.

We see loyalty in the members of our Armed Forces, who selflessly serve
in harm’s way; in their families, who, in the timeless words of the poet
John Milton, “also serve who only stand and wait;” in our educators, who
dedicate their lives to nurturing young minds; in our first responders,
who put their lives on the line to save others; in all those who have
the courage to call out our Nation’s imperfections when we fall short,
and who continue to push our society to live up to its founding promise
of freedom, justice, and equality for all. May 1 is also International
Workers’ Day, and we honor the workers whose service and sacrifice has
helped turn the tide against the COVID-19 pandemic. On this day, we show
our gratitude to our essential workers — and to all of the workers who
have organized and fought to improve our Nation and create a fairer and
more just society for all.

To acknowledge the American ethos of patriotism and the sacrifices so
many of our fellow citizens have made, the Congress, by Public Law
85-529, as amended, has designated the 1st day of May each year as
Loyalty Day. On this day, let us reaffirm our commitment to the values
that bind us together and honor all those who have defended our freedom.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, do hereby proclaim May 1, 2021, as Loyalty Day. This Loyalty
Day, I call upon the people of the United States to join in this
national observance, display the United States flag and pledge
allegiance to the Republic for which it stands.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirtieth day of
April, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-fifth.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
