---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2021-04-30'
modified_time: 2021-04-30 17:09:42-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/04/30/a-proclamation-on-the-suspension-of-entry-as-nonimmigrants-of-certain-additional-persons-who-pose-a-risk-of-transmitting-coronavirus-disease-2019/
published_time: 2021-04-30 17:09:41-04:00
title: A Proclamation on the Suspension of Entry as Nonimmigrants of Certain Additional
  Persons Who Pose a Risk of Transmitting Coronavirus Disease 2019
---
 
The national emergency caused by the coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19)
outbreak in the United States continues to pose a grave threat to our
health and security.  As of April 29, 2021, the United States had
experienced more than 32 million confirmed COVID-19 cases and more than
570,000 COVID-19 deaths.  It is the policy of my Administration to
implement science-based public health measures, across all areas of the
Federal Government, to act swiftly and aggressively to prevent further
spread of the disease.

The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), within the
Department of Health and Human Services, working in close coordination
with the Department of Homeland Security, has determined that the
Republic of India is experiencing widespread, ongoing person-to-person
transmission of SARS-CoV-2, the virus that causes COVID-19.  The World
Health Organization has reported that the Republic of India has had more
than 18,375,000 confirmed cases of COVID-19.  The magnitude and scope of
the COVID-19 pandemic in the Republic of India is surging; the Republic
of India accounts for over one-third of new global cases, and the number
of new cases in the Republic of India is accelerating at a rapid rate. 
There have been more than 300,000 average new daily cases in the
Republic of India over the past week.  A variant strain of the virus,
known as B.1.617, is also circulating in the Republic of India, along
with other variant strains, including B.1.1.7, first detected in the
United Kingdom, and B.1.351, first detected in the Republic of South
Africa.  The CDC advises, based on work by public health and scientific
experts, that these variants have characteristics of concern, which may
make them more easily transmitted and have the potential for reduced
protection afforded by some vaccines.

After reviewing the public health situation within the Republic of
India, CDC has concluded that proactive measures are required to protect
the Nation’s public health from travelers entering the United States
from that jurisdiction.

Given the determination of CDC, working in close coordination with the
Department of Homeland Security, described above, I have determined that
it is in the interests of the United States to take action to restrict
and suspend the entry into the United States, as nonimmigrants, of
noncitizens of the United States (“noncitizens”) who were physically
present within the Republic of India during the 14‑day period preceding
their entry or attempted entry into the United States.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States,
by the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the laws of the
United States of America, including sections 212(f) and 215(a) of the
Immigration and Nationality Act, 8 U.S.C. 1182(f) and 1185(a), and
section 301 of title 3, United States Code, hereby find that the
unrestricted entry into the United States of persons described in
section 1 of this proclamation would, except as provided for in section
2 of this proclamation, be detrimental to the interests of the
United States, and that their entry should be subject to certain
restrictions, limitations, and exceptions.  I therefore hereby proclaim
the following:

Section 1.  Suspension and Limitation on Entry.  The entry into the
United States, as nonimmigrants, of noncitizens who were physically
present within the Republic of India during the 14-day period preceding
their entry or attempted entry into the United States is hereby
suspended and limited subject to section 2 of this proclamation.

Sec. 2.  Scope of Suspension and Limitation on Entry. 

     (a)  Section 1 of this proclamation shall not apply to:

          (i)     any lawful permanent resident of the United States;

          (ii)    any noncitizen national of the United States;

          (iii)   any noncitizen who is the spouse of a U.S. citizen or
lawful permanent resident;

          (iv)    any noncitizen who is the parent or legal guardian of
a U.S. citizen or lawful permanent resident, provided that the U.S.
citizen or lawful permanent resident is unmarried and under the age
of 21;

          (v)     any noncitizen who is the sibling of a U.S. citizen or
lawful permanent resident, provided that both are unmarried and under
the age of 21;

          (vi)    any noncitizen who is the child, foster child, or ward
of a U.S. citizen or lawful permanent resident, or who is a prospective
adoptee seeking to enter the United States pursuant to the IR-4 or IH-4
visa classifications;

          (vii)   any noncitizen traveling at the invitation of the
United States Government for a purpose related to containment or
mitigation of the virus;

          (viii)  any noncitizen traveling as a nonimmigrant pursuant to
a C-1, D, or C-1/D nonimmigrant visa as a crewmember or any noncitizen
otherwise traveling to the United States as air or sea crew;

          (ix)    any noncitizen

              (A)  seeking entry into or transiting the United States
pursuant to one of the following visas:  A-1, A-2, C-2, C-3 (as a
foreign government official or immediate family member of an official),
E-1 (as an employee of TECRO or TECO or the employee’s immediate family
members), G-1, G-2, G-3, G-4, NATO-1 through NATO-4, or NATO-6 (or
seeking to enter as a nonimmigrant in one of those NATO categories); or

              (B)  whose travel falls within the scope of section 11 of
the United Nations Headquarters Agreement;

          (x)     any noncitizen who is a member of the U.S. Armed
Forces or who is a spouse or child of a member of the U.S. Armed Forces;

          (xi)    any noncitizen whose entry would further important
United States law enforcement objectives, as determined by the Secretary
of State, the Secretary of Homeland Security, or their respective
designees, based on a recommendation of the Attorney General or his
designee; or

          (xii)   any noncitizen whose entry would be in the national
interest, as determined by the Secretary of State, the Secretary of
Homeland Security, or their designees.

     (b)  Nothing in this proclamation shall be construed to affect any
individual’s eligibility for asylum, withholding of removal, or
protection under the regulations issued pursuant to the legislation
implementing the Convention Against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or
Degrading Treatment or Punishment, consistent with the laws and
regulations of the United States.

Sec. 3.  Implementation and Enforcement.

     (a)  The Secretary of State shall implement this proclamation as it
applies to visas pursuant to such procedures as the Secretary of State,
in consultation with the Secretary of Homeland Security, may establish. 
The Secretary of Homeland Security shall implement this proclamation as
it applies to the entry of noncitizens pursuant to such procedures as
the Secretary of Homeland Security, in consultation with the Secretary
of State, may establish.

     (b)  The Secretary of State, the Secretary of Transportation, and
the Secretary of Homeland Security shall endeavor to ensure that any
noncitizen subject to this proclamation does not board an aircraft
traveling to the United States, to the extent permitted by law.

     (c)  The Secretary of Homeland Security may establish standards and
procedures to ensure the application of this proclamation at and between
all United States ports of entry.

     (d)  Where a noncitizen circumvents the application of this
proclamation through fraud, willful misrepresentation of a material
fact, or illegal entry, the Secretary of Homeland Security shall
consider prioritizing such noncitizen for removal.

Sec. 4.  Termination.  This proclamation shall remain in effect until
terminated by the President.  The Secretary of Health and Human Services
shall, as circumstances warrant and no more than 30 days after the date
of this proclamation and by the final day of each calendar month
thereafter, recommend whether the President should continue, modify, or
terminate this proclamation.

Sec. 5.  Effective Date.  This proclamation is effective at 12:01 a.m.
eastern daylight time on May 4, 2021.  This proclamation does not apply
to persons aboard a flight scheduled to arrive in the United States that
departed prior to 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on May 4, 2021.

Sec. 6.  Severability.  It is the policy of the United States to enforce
this proclamation to the maximum extent possible to advance the national
security, public safety, and foreign policy interests of the United
States.  Accordingly:

     (a)  if any provision of this proclamation, or the application of
any provision to any person or circumstance, is held to be invalid, the
remainder of this proclamation and the application of its provisions to
any other persons or circumstances shall not be affected thereby; and

     (b)  if any provision of this proclamation, or the application of
any provision to any person or circumstance, is held to be invalid
because of the lack of certain procedural requirements, the relevant
executive branch officials shall implement those procedural requirements
to conform with existing law and with any applicable court orders.

Sec. 7.  General Provisions.

     (a)  Nothing in this proclamation shall be construed to impair or
otherwise affect:

          (i)   the authority granted by law to an executive department
or agency, or the head thereof; or

          (ii)  the functions of the Director of the Office
of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or
legislative proposals.

     (b)  This proclamation shall be implemented consistent
with applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

     (c)  This proclamation is not intended to, and does not, create any
right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in
equity by any party against the United States, its departments,
agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other
person.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirtieth day of
April, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-fifth.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
