---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2021-04-30'
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/04/30/a-proclamation-on-jewish-american-heritage-month-2021/
published_time: 2021-04-30 16:24:25-04:00
title: "A Proclamation on Jewish American Heritage Month,\_2021"
---
 
The Jewish American experience is a story of faith, fortitude, and
progress.  It is a quintessential American experience — one that is
connected to key tenets of American identity, including our Nation’s
commitment to freedom of religion and conscience.  This month, we honor
Jewish Americans — past and present — who have inextricably woven their
experience and their accomplishments into the fabric of our national
identity.

Generations of Jewish people have come to this Nation fleeing
oppression, discrimination, and persecution in search of a better life
for themselves and their children.  These Jewish Americans have created
lives for themselves and their families and played indispensable roles
in our Nation’s civic and community life, making invaluable
contributions to our Nation through their leadership and achievements.  

And this year, we also recognize two historic firsts, as America saw the
Vice President take the oath of office alongside her Jewish spouse, and
a Jewish American became the first Majority Leader of the United States
Senate and the highest-ranking Jewish American elected official in our
Nation’s history.

Alongside this narrative of achievement and opportunity, there is also a
history — far older than the Nation itself — of racism, bigotry, and
other forms of injustice.  This includes the scourge of anti-Semitism.
 In recent years, Jewish Americans have increasingly been the target of
white nationalism and the antisemitic violence it fuels.

As our Nation strives to heal these wounds and overcome these
challenges, let us acknowledge and celebrate the crucial contributions
that Jewish Americans have made to our collective struggle for a more
just and fair society; leading movements for social justice, working to
ensure that the opportunities they have secured are extended to others,
and heeding the words of the Torah, “Justice, justice shall you pursue.”

A central concept in Judaism, “l’dor v’dor”, or “from generation to
generation,” recognizes both the continuity of the Jewish people and the
intergenerational responsibility we have to heal the world for our
children.  During Jewish American Heritage Month, we honor Jewish
Americans, who, inspired by Jewish values and American ideals, have
engaged in the ongoing work of forming a more perfect union.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim May 2021 as Jewish
American Heritage Month.  I call upon all Americans to visit
www.JewishHeritageMonth.gov to learn more about the heritage and
contributions of Jewish Americans and to observe this month with
appropriate programs, activities, and ceremonies.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirtieth day of
April, in the year two thousand twenty-one, and of the Independence of
the United States of America the two hundred and forty-fifth.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
