---
tags: presidential-actions
date: '2021-04-30'
modified_time: 2021-04-30 16:36:38-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/04/30/a-proclamation-on-national-building-safety-month-2021/
published_time: 2021-04-30 16:36:37-04:00
title: "A Proclamation on National Building Safety Month,\_2021"
---
 
Throughout this past year, we have come to appreciate the contributions
and complexity of our building and built environment.  During the
COVID-19 pandemic, many people saw their homes become more than a place
of dwelling, evolving into a comprehensive space for education, work,
childcare, and entertainment.  During National Building Safety Month, we
recognize the importance of strengthening our buildings and
infrastructure to serve the needs and ensure the safety of every
American.  We also honor the building safety professionals dedicated to
creating safe, sustainable, and resilient communities.

We also recognize that now is the time to repair and modernize our
buildings and infrastructure, not only to meet the needs of today, but
to address the challenges of tomorrow, especially the existential threat
of climate change.  The unrelenting impact of climate change affects
every one of us, but too often the brunt falls disproportionately on
vulnerable communities — especially low-income communities and people of
color — who are facing new and worsening natural hazards like
hurricanes, floods, extreme heat, and wildfires due to climate change.
 These communities are less likely to have the means to prepare for and
recover from these hazards, which have increased in frequency, duration,
and intensity.  The buildings where we live and work provide an
important line of defense against these growing hazards.  Investing in
our infrastructure and adopting and implementing modern building codes
are the most effective mitigation measures communities can undertake.

This is why I have issued several Executive Orders related to buildings
and resiliency as part of a Government-wide approach to the climate
emergency.  My Administration has also put the climate crisis at the
center of U.S. foreign and national security policy, and established the
White House Office of Domestic Climate Policy and the National Climate
Task Force.  We are committed to creating climate-friendly and
environmentally conscious communities that not only protect the people
who live and work in them, but also will boost our economy in the
long-term.

In order for us to safeguard the health, safety, and economic future of
our Nation’s people, we must also invest in our infrastructure more
broadly.  From upgrading homes in disadvantaged communities, to
modernizing our Nation’s schools, to replacing lead water pipes, to
securing affordable, high-speed broadband, the American Jobs Plan is an
investment for all Americans.  It will create millions of good jobs,
rebuild our crumbling infrastructure, and promote access to opportunity
for all.

To support these efforts, my Administration is also calling for broad
input and collaboration from all levels of government and our partners
in the non-profit and private sectors.  We must all share the
responsibility for ensuring that our communities are safe and resilient
against the growing threat of climate change.  In America and around the
globe, initiatives such as the Global Resiliency Dialogue aim to
increase building and climate-based science into the solution.  This
important work is underway, but we recognize that there is much more to
do.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim May 2021 as
National Building Safety Month.  I encourage citizens, government
agencies, businesses, nonprofits, and other interested groups to join in
activities that raise awareness about building safety.  I also call on
all Americans to learn more about how they can contribute to building
safety at home and in their communities.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirtieth day of
April, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-fifth.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
