---
tags: presidential-actions
date: '2021-04-30'
modified_time: 2021-04-30 16:54:31-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/04/30/a-proclamation-on-law-day-u-s-a-2021/
published_time: 2021-04-30 16:54:30-04:00
title: "A Proclamation on Law Day, U.S.A,\_2021"
---
 
In the many years I spent as a United States Senator and as Vice
President, I logged hundreds of thousands of miles of travel, and had
the opportunity to meet with foreign officials all over the world. Those
experiences impressed upon me a truth about America: that what makes our
Nation unique is the depth of our devotion to the rule of law.

Unlike so many of the Nations of the world, the United States wasn’t
built around an ethnicity, religion, or tribe — it was built around
common ideals. The rule of law is central to those ideals. It is what
limits the abuse of power in our Nation, whether by an individual or a
mob. It reflects President John Adams’ desire to establish “a government
of laws and not of men.” It is how Thomas Paine distinguished us from
the rest of the world — declaring that, while in other Nations, the king
is law, “in America, the law is king.”

Many Nations around the world still struggle to capture what we have
captured here in America — not only in the text of our founding
documents, but in the character of our people:  reverence for the law.
That reverence is essential to our democracy. Without it, equality and
justice cannot be advanced, human rights cannot be protected, democratic
norms and values cannot be secured, and disagreements cannot be
peaceably resolved. The rule of law has also been a critical vehicle for
delivering the full promise of American democracy to all of our people,
particularly those excluded in our Nation’s founding. Today, on Law Day,
we rededicate ourselves to furthering that promise and strengthening
those ideals, and we renew our commitment to ensure that every
American’s constitutional rights are protected.

The theme of this year’s Law Day, “Advancing the Rule of Law Now,” is
particularly fitting at this moment in our Nation’s history. Recently,
we were again called to recognize that democracy is precious and
fragile.  We have witnessed grave threats to our democratic institutions
and to the rule of law itself. These tragic events have taught us once
again that when we are united, we can overcome the greatest challenges
and move our country forward — but it takes a commitment to law over
demagoguery, and the enforcement of law free from political
interference, to do so. 

Previous generations of Americans have lived through civil war, economic
depressions, the rise of fascism, and world wars — and today, too many
Americans continue to face pervasive racism, xenophobia, nativism, and
other forms of intolerance. This year, the United States marks the 100th
anniversary of the Tulsa, Oklahoma, race massacre, in which a mob of
white residents attacked and killed between 100 and 300 Black residents
and destroyed more than 1,000 homes and businesses in a thriving
community known as Black Wall Street. Today, a century later, we still
face chilling echoes of those threats to equality, justice, and the rule
of law in the form of rising political extremism, white supremacy, and
domestic terrorism. 

My Administration is committed to advancing the rule of law within the
United States so that everyone is ensured equal justice under the law,
an equal place in our democracy, and the opportunity to fulfill their
potential free from abuses of power. On my first day in office, I signed
an historic Executive Order on Advancing Racial Equity and Support for
Underserved Communities Through the Federal Government, to advance
equity and racial justice and redress systemic racism across a
comprehensive sweep of Federal policies, laws, and programs.  I also
signed a memorandum on Condemning and Combating Racism, Xenophobia, and
Intolerance Against Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders in the United
States, stating that the Federal Government has a responsibility to
prevent racism, xenophobia, and intolerance against anyone in the United
States — particularly, today, against Asian Americans who have spent the
last year enduring unconscionable and un-American harassment and attacks
— as well as an additional Executive Order on Preventing and Combating
Discrimination on the Basis of Gender Identity or Sexual Orientation. I
have directed Federal agencies to facilitate access to voting using
their existing legal authority, and my Administration supports further
legislation to protect the sacred right to vote and make it more
equitable and accessible for all Americans to exercise that right.

We are also working to advance the rule of law across the world by
rebuilding global alliances; confronting authoritarianism; and
reengaging with other governments, civil society organizations, and
multilateral organizations, such as the United Nations. We must ensure
that we are able to lead not by the example of our power, but by the
power of our example. As I have said on many occasions, our diplomacy
must be rooted in America’s most cherished democratic values:  defending
freedom, championing opportunity, upholding universal rights, respecting
the rule of law, and treating every person with dignity.

On this Law Day, U.S.A., I urge my fellow Americans to join me in
recommitting ourselves to promoting and advancing the rule of law and
delivering freedom and equality for all.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, in accordance with Public Law 87-20, as amended, do hereby
proclaim May 1, 2021, as Law Day, U.S.A. I call upon all Americans to
acknowledge the importance of our Nation’s legal and judicial systems
with appropriate ceremonies and activities, and to display the flag of
the United States in support of this national observance.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirtieth day of
April, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-fifth.

  
 JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
