---
tags: presidential-actions
date: '2021-04-23'
modified_time: 2021-04-23 17:08:08-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/04/23/a-proclamation-on-world-intellectual-property-day-2021/
published_time: 2021-04-23 17:08:07-04:00
title: "A Proclamation on World Intellectual Property Day,\_2021"
---
 
     This year, on World Intellectual Property Day, we celebrate the
innovators and creators who enrich our lives and create the products,
services, companies, and industries of tomorrow.  We especially
recognize the power of intellectual property protection in allowing our
small businesses to compete, thrive, and play their important role as
the heart and soul of our communities and the engines of our economic
progress.

     Small businesses are critical to our success as a Nation.  They
make up 90 percent of businesses in the United States, employ nearly
half of America’s private sector workers, and create two-thirds of new
jobs, and bring opportunity to every corner of our Nation.  Inventions
born in the garages of small towns can have just as much impact as those
developed in high-tech labs.  This year’s World Intellectual Property
Day highlights the critical role these small businesses play in our
society and the ways intellectual property can help support their
continued growth and resilience.

     Every small business starts with one person’s or one family’s
dream.  When that dream is coupled with grit and determination, ideas
turn into products, brands, and creative works.  Pair those ideas with
the strength of our intellectual property system and you have the
foundation necessary for new business opportunities, increased
employment, and greater economic prosperity. 

     The various types of intellectual property — trademarks,
copyrights, patents, and trade secrets — help to ensure that small
businesses will be compensated for, and be able to prosper from their
creations and their customer service.  Without these protections, a
small business’s success could easily prove to be its undoing, as
unscrupulous competitors could seek to copy, steal, and unduly profit
from the small business’s ideas and its hard-earned customer goodwill.

     We must also recognize the important role science and technology
play in safeguarding our intellectual property.  Investing in and
strengthening our digital infrastructure promotes innovation that helps
small businesses and protects the rights of our citizens.  

     This year marks the 75th anniversary of the signing of the Lanham
Act, which is this Nation’s fundamental trademark law.  Trademark
protection enables small businesses to benefit from the investments that
they make to establish brand awareness and brand loyalty.  In addition,
trademarks help to protect consumers from counterfeits and other
deceitful practices that defraud them and endanger their health and
safety. 

     When the pandemic hit, singers, songwriters, and artists from all
across America used their talents to lift us up, and to inspire us to
support one another in these difficult times.  Copyright protection
rewards them for their creativity and allows them to continue to create.

     We are proud to be a Nation of inventors and my Administration is
committed to bolstering American industrial and innovative strength so
we can continue to lead in making the cutting-edge products and services
of tomorrow.  My Administration is also committed to giving everyone, no
matter where they are from, a chance to succeed and to contribute to
creating the strongest, most resilient, innovative economy in the
world.  

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim April
26, 2021, as World Intellectual Property Day.  I call upon all Americans
to observe this day by supporting their neighborhood small businesses
and celebrating the creativity, hard work, and passion that lies behind
each one of them.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-third
day of April, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-fifth.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
