---
tags: presidential-actions
date: '2021-04-20'
modified_time: 2021-04-20 14:55:29-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/04/20/a-proclamation-on-the-death-of-walter-mondale/
published_time: 2021-04-20 14:55:28-04:00
title: "A Proclamation on the Death of Walter\_Mondale"
---
 
     Today, our Nation mourns the loss of one of our Nation’s most
dedicated patriots and public servants.  Walter Frederick “Fritz”
Mondale served the people of Minnesota as their Attorney General from
1960-1964, as a United States Senator from 1964-1976, as Vice President
of the United States from 1977-1981, and as the United States Ambassador
to Japan from 1993-1996.

     As Minnesota’s Attorney General, he drew national attention in a
landmark case before the U.S. Supreme Court that established that
indigent criminal defendants have the right to legal counsel.

     As a Senator, he was instrumental in the passage of The Fair
Housing Act to combat racial discrimination in housing, Title IX to
provide more opportunities for women, and numerous laws to protect our
environment.

Walter Mondale defined the modern vice presidency, elevating the
position into a true partnership with the President.  As Vice President,
he helped lay the groundwork for the 1978 peace treaty between Egypt and
Israel, the Panama Canal Treaty, and nuclear arms negotiations with the
Soviet Union.

As the 1984 Democratic nominee for President, he made history when he
became the first Presidential nominee of either party to select a woman
as his running mate.

In continuing his service as the United States Ambassador to Japan, he
became the voice and face of America to that important ally.

     For nearly 60 years he had a remarkable partnership with his wife
Joan, a devoted advocate for the arts, who passed away in 2014.  We
mourned when he lost his daughter Eleanor in 2011 and today our Nation’s
sympathies lie with his sons Ted and William and his six grandchildren.

     On a wall at the Carter Center in Atlanta, Georgia, there is a
quote from Walter Mondale.  It reads, “We told the truth.  We obeyed the
law.  We kept the peace.”  Walter Mondale did all that and more.

     As a mark of respect for Walter Mondale and his life of service to
our Nation, I hereby order, by the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and laws of the United States of America, including section
7 of title 4, United States Code, that the flag of the United States
shall be flown at half-staff at the White House and on all public
buildings and grounds, at all military posts and naval stations, and on
all naval vessels of the Federal Government in the District of Columbia
and throughout the United States and its Territories and possessions
until sunset, on the day of interment.  I also direct that the flag
shall be flown at half-staff for the same period at all United States
embassies, legations, consular offices, and other facilities abroad,
including all military facilities and naval vessels and stations.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twentieth day
of April, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-fifth.  
                            

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
