---
tags: presidential-actions
date: '2021-04-30'
modified_time: 2021-04-30 16:32:29-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/04/30/a-proclamation-on-national-foster-care-month-2021/
published_time: 2021-04-30 16:32:28-04:00
title: "A Proclamation on National Foster Care Month,\_2021"
---
 
Every child deserves to grow up in a supportive, loving home where they
can thrive and prosper. During those unfortunate times when children
cannot remain safely in their own homes, the individuals and families
who open their hearts and homes to foster children provide a vital
service to their communities. During this National Foster Care Month, we
share our gratitude for those who support youth and families by being a
resource to children in need and supporting birth parents so that they
may safely reunite with their families whenever possible. We also
recognize that it takes collaboration and community effort — from local
organizations to Federal agencies — to support children, birth parents,
and resource and kin families during challenging times.

Young people in foster care have been particularly impacted by the
COVID-19 pandemic. They are navigating circumstances that are already
tough, and those challenges are compounded by a public health crisis
that made housing, employment and educational opportunities even harder
to access.  

To support the immediate needs of youth in foster care, my
Administration is implementing Federal programs authorized by the
Supporting Foster Youth and Families through the Pandemic Act. This law
provides additional flexibility and support for youth aging out of
foster care, and allows them to access critical services to help them
stay in school or participate in a job training program, pay the bills,
and better make the difficult transition to adulthood. We have an
expression in the Biden family, “If you have to ask for help, it’s too
late.” As a Nation, we can proactively help children by advancing
a holistic approach to child and family well-being across the country —
before it’s too late.

As we work to address immediate needs, we must be clear about
long-standing challenges in child welfare and commit to advancing child
and family well-being in every way we can. Our children, birth parents,
and resource and kin families deserve nothing less. So this National
Foster Care Month, we also recognize the histories of injustice in our
Nation’s foster care system. Throughout our history and persisting
today, too many communities of color, especially Black and Native
American communities, have been treated unequally and often unfairly by
the child welfare system. Black and Native American children are far
more likely than white children to be removed from their homes, even
when the circumstances surrounding the removal are similar. Once
removed, Black and Native American children stay in care longer and are
less likely to either reunite with their birth parents or be adopted.
Too many children are removed from loving homes because poverty is often
conflated with neglect, and the enduring effects of systemic racism and
economic barriers mean that families of color are disproportionately
affected by this as well. Children with disabilities are
over-represented among youth in care and may be inappropriately placed
in group settings instead of provided the individualized support they
need. Children in foster care — particularly youth of color and LGBTQ+
children who are already subject to disproportionate rates of school
discipline and criminalization — are also at an increased risk of
becoming involved in the juvenile justice system. And for LGBTQ+ foster
youth, foster care systems are not always equipped to safely meet their
needs.

My Administration is committed to addressing these entrenched problems
in our Nation’s child welfare system, advancing equity and racial
justice for every child and family who is touched by the foster care and
child welfare system, and focusing on policies that improve child and
family well-being. This is why my Administration’s discretionary funding
request for 2022 includes $100 million in competitive grants for State
and local child welfare systems to advance racial equity and prevent
unnecessary child removals.

National Foster Care Month is an opportunity for us to celebrate the
resource and kin families who are supporting children by opening their
homes and sharing their love. Crucially, it is also an opportunity to
celebrate foster youth and all of their accomplishments, and to
celebrate and encourage the many biological parents who are working hard
to safely reunite with their children. And it provides an opportunity
for us to fulfill our responsibility as a Nation to take care of each
other and provide our vulnerable youth and families with the support
they need.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim May 2021 as
National Foster Care Month. I call upon all Americans to observe this
month by reaching out in their neighborhoods and communities to the
children and youth in foster care and their families, those at risk of
entering foster care, and resource and kin families and other
caregivers.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirtieth day of
April, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-fifth.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
