---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2021-04-13'
modified_time: 2021-04-13 17:20:25-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/04/13/a-proclamation-on-pan-american-day-and-pan-american-week-2021/
published_time: 2021-04-13 17:20:24-04:00
title: "A Proclamation on Pan American Day and Pan American Week,\_2021"
---
 
One hundred and thirty-one years ago, our hemisphere formed the
International Union of American Republics — the oldest regional
international organization in the world, and the precursor to the
modern-day Organization of American States.  On this Pan American Day
and Pan American Week, we reaffirm the strength of our regional
community, celebrate the democratic principles that unite us, and
resolve to work together to overcome the common challenges before us.

So many of the greatest challenges facing us today are not confined to
our respective national boundaries.  The global COVID-19 crisis has laid
bare persistent inequalities in our societies and structural weaknesses
in our economies.  Climate change poses an urgent national security
threat that is hurting communities throughout the region today and
jeopardizing future generations.  We are witnessing a humanitarian
crisis and mass displacement in Venezuela that is among the worst in
history.  Violence and endemic corruption, particularly in Central
America, are causing desperate people to uproot their lives and families
in hopes of a better future elsewhere.  

No nation can address today’s challenges alone or hide from them behind
walls.  A secure, economically prosperous, and democratic hemisphere is
overwhelmingly in the economic and national security interest of the
United States and the entire Pan American region.  Moreover, it is
within our capacity to reach that future if we rally together and unite
around principled and democratic leadership — anchored in the rule
of law.

The people of our hemisphere want governments that are accountable to
voters and deliver real benefits:  good-paying jobs that allow
hard-working people to provide for their families, education for their
children, security in their communities, and a future where equal
opportunity and fundamental human and political rights are guaranteed to
all people.

This year, as we mark the 20th anniversary of the Inter-American
Democratic Charter, each of our governments has an obligation to renew,
promote, and defend that groundbreaking commitment we made — that all
people who call the Americas home have a right to democracy.  The
Democratic Charter remains at the core of our hemispheric union, working
through the Organization of American States, to advance a bold and
determined vision of a region whose governments honor and respect
democratic values, human rights, fundamental freedoms, and the inherent
dignity of each individual.  During this Pan American Day and Pan
American Week, we celebrate our unity and cooperation — and resolve to
work together to overcome the challenges ahead of us and build a better
world.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim April 14, 2021, as
Pan American Day and April 11 through April 17, 2021, as Pan American
Week.  I urge the Governors of the 50 States, the Governor of the
Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and the officials of the other areas under
the flag of the United States of America to honor these observances with
appropriate ceremonies and activities.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirteenth day of
April, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-fifth.

  
JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
