---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2021-04-30'
modified_time: 2021-04-30 16:14:55-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/04/30/a-proclamation-on-national-mental-health-awareness-month-2021/
published_time: 2021-04-30 16:14:54-04:00
title: "A Proclamation on National Mental Health Awareness Month,\_2021"
---
 
Mental health is essential to our overall health, and the importance of
attending to mental health has become even more pronounced during the
COVID-19 pandemic, which has not only negatively impacted many people’s
mental health but has also created barriers to treatment.

Millions of adults and children across America experience mental health
conditions, including anxiety, depression, schizophrenia, bipolar
disorder, and post-traumatic stress disorder. Nearly one in five
Americans lives with a mental health condition. Those living with mental
health conditions are our family, friends, classmates, neighbors, and
coworkers. Before the Affordable Care Act, insurance companies could
discriminate against people based on pre-existing conditions, including
mental health conditions, and mental health and substance use services
were not covered by insurance. Still discrimination against those with
mental health conditions in our society remains, and can make it
difficult to find and reach out for help. While our Nation has made
progress in promoting mental health services, many communities face
pervasive barriers in accessing mental health care.

The COVID-19 pandemic and the resulting economic crisis has impacted the
mental health of millions of Americans. Isolation, sickness, grief, job
loss, food instability, and loss of routines has increased the need for
mental health services. At the same time, the need to protect people
from COVID-19 has made it more challenging for people to access mental
health services, and harder for providers to deliver this care. 

Even before COVID-19, the prevalence of mental health conditions in our
Nation was on the rise. In 2019, nearly 52 million adults experienced
some form of mental illness. Recent data from the Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention indicates that one in four adults reported
experiencing symptoms of an anxiety or depressive disorder in February
2021 — a significant increase from the prior year. Youth mental health
is also worsening, with nearly 10 percent of America’s youth reporting
severe depression. We must treat this as the public health crisis that
it is and reverse this trend.

Too many people with mental health needs feel they have nowhere to turn.
Suicide is the tenth leading cause of death in the United States and the
second leading cause of death for our Nation’s youth today. Suicide
rates are disproportionately high among Black youth, and LGBTQI+ persons
are at disproportionate risk of death by suicide as well as suicidal
ideation, planning, and attempts. My Administration is committed to
advancing suicide prevention best practices and improving non-punitive
crisis response. Even as we build and enhance existing systems for
prevention and response within communities, immediate assistance is
available for those in need of help by calling the National Suicide
Prevention Lifeline at 1-800-273-TALK or by calling 1-800-662-HELP. 

My Administration is committed to ensuring that people living with
mental health conditions are treated with compassion, respect, and
understanding. We must also address the disparities that underserved
communities, especially communities of color, face and work to ensure
that everyone has access to affordable, quality, and evidence-based
mental health care.

As President, I know that we can and must address these critical issues,
especially for those who have shouldered the burden of standing on the
front lines in responding to the pandemic. That is why the American
Rescue Plan includes substantial investments to promote mental health
among the health care workforce. We are also building on the progress
made through the 21st Century Cures Act by integrating mental health and
addiction treatment into primary care settings, schools, and homes.

My Administration is focused on building an improved, expanded system of
care for the mental health needs of adults and children. This will
require an increase in the number of mental health professionals.
Building on a program in the American Rescue Plan, I have requested
$1 billion in funding to expand the number of school-based mental health
professionals, including school psychologists and counselors to address
the mental health needs of students. The American Rescue Plan also
delivered $3 billion for substance use and mental health care block
grants. These funds also ensure that States provide pathways to
prevention, intervention, treatment, and recovery services — especially
for underserved communities. The American Rescue Plan also included $420
million in funding to support Certified Community Behavioral Health
Clinics to expand access to high-quality, evidence-based behavioral
health services. Certified Community Behavioral Health Clinics are also
committed to involving peers and families, who are essential to mental
health recovery.

My Administration is committed to ensuring that everyone knows that they
are not alone, that help exists, and that we will provide the mental
health support needed to heal, recover, and thrive.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim May 2021 as
National Mental Health Awareness Month. I call upon citizens, government
agencies, organizations, healthcare providers, and research institutions
to raise mental health awareness and continue helping Americans live
longer, healthier lives.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirtieth day of
April, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-fifth.

                                 JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
