---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2021-04-30'
modified_time: 2021-04-30 11:11:04-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/04/30/a-proclamation-on-asian-american-and-native-hawaiian-pacific-islander-heritage-month-2021/
published_time: 2021-04-30 11:11:03-04:00
title: A Proclamation on Asian American and Native Hawaiian / Pacific Islander Heritage
  Month, 2021
---
 
This May, during Asian American and Native Hawaiian/Pacific Islander
Heritage Month, we recognize the history and achievements of Asian
Americans, Native Hawaiians, and Pacific Islanders (AANHPIs) across our
Nation.  In the midst of a difficult year of pain and fear, we reflect
on the tradition of leadership, resilience, and courage shown by AANHPI
communities, and recommit to the struggle for AANHPI equity.

Asian Americans, and Native Hawaiians, and Pacific Islanders make our
Nation more vibrant through diversity of cultures, languages, and
religions.  There is no single story of the AANHPI experience, but
rather a diversity of contributions that enrich America’s culture and
society and strengthen the United States’ role as a global leader.  The
American story as we know it would be impossible without the strength,
contributions, and legacies of AANHPIs who have helped build and unite
this country in each successive generation.  From laying railroad
tracks, tilling fields, and starting businesses, to caring for our loved
ones and honorably serving our Nation in uniform, AANHPI communities are
deeply rooted in the history of the United States.

We also celebrate and honor the invaluable contributions the AANHPI
communities have made to our Nation’s culture and the arts, law, science
and technology, sports and public service — including the courageous
AANHPIs who have served on the front lines of the COVID-19 pandemic as
health care providers, first responders, teachers, and other essential
workers.

During this year’s Asian American and Native Hawaiian/Pacific Islander
Heritage Month, our Nation celebrates the achievements of Vice President
Harris, the first person of South Asian descent to hold the Office of
the Vice President.  Vice President Harris has blazed a trail and set an
example for young people across the country to aspire to follow,
including members of AANHPI communities and AANHPI women in particular. 

In spite of the strength shown and successes achieved, the American
dream remains out of reach for far too many AANHPI families. AANHPI
communities face systemic barriers to economic justice, health equity,
educational attainment, and personal safety.  These challenges are
compounded by stark gaps in Federal data, which too often fails to
reflect the diversity of AANHPI communities and the particular barriers
that Native Hawaiian, Pacific Islander, Southeast Asian, and South Asian
communities in the United States continue to face.

My Administration also recognizes the heightened fear felt by many Asian
American communities in the wake of increasing rates of anti-Asian
harassment and violence during the COVID-19 pandemic, and the
increasingly observable layers of hate now directed toward women and
elders of Asian descent in particular.  Our Nation continues to grieve
the senseless killings of six women of Asian descent in Atlanta, and the
unconscionable acts of violence victimizing our beloved Asian American
seniors in cities across the country.

Acts of anti-Asian bias are wrong, they are un-American, and they must
stop.  My Administration will continue to stand shoulder to shoulder
with AANHPI communities in condemning, denouncing, and preventing these
acts of violence.  We will continue to look for opportunities to heal
together and fight against the racism and xenophobia that still exists
in this country.

Present-day inequities faced by AANHPI communities are rooted in our
Nation’s history of exclusion, discrimination, racism, and xenophobia
against Asian Americans.  Asian Americans, Native Hawaiians, and Pacific
Islanders have endured a long history of injustice — including the Page
Act of 1875, the Chinese Exclusion Act of 1882, the incarceration of
Japanese American citizens during World War II, the murder of Vincent
Chin, the mass shooting of Southeast Asian refugee children in 1989, and
the targeting of South Asian Americans, especially those who are Muslim,
Hindu, or Sikh, after the national tragedy of 9/11.  It is long past
time for Federal leadership to advance inclusion, belonging, and
acceptance for all AANHPI communities.  My Administration is committed
to a whole-of-government effort to advance equity, root out racial
injustices in our Federal institutions, and finally deliver the promise
of America for all Americans.

Vice President Harris and I affirm that Asian Americans, Native
Hawaiians, and Pacific Islanders make our Nation stronger.  I urge my
fellow Americans to join us this month in celebrating AANHPI history,
people, and cultures.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim May 2021 as Asian
American and Native Hawaiian/Pacific Islander Heritage Month.  I call
upon the people of the United States to learn more about the history of
Asian Americans, Native Hawaiians, and Pacific Islanders, and to observe
this month with appropriate programs and activities.

 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirtieth day of
April, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-fifth.

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
