---
tags: presidential-actions
date: '2021-04-17'
modified_time: 2021-04-17 17:22:08-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/04/17/a-proclamation-on-national-park-week-2021/
published_time: 2021-04-17 17:22:07-04:00
title: "A Proclamation on National Park Week,\_2021"
---
 
The renowned environmentalist and author, Rachel Carson, wrote in her
seminal book *Silent Spring* that, “Those who contemplate the beauty of
the earth find reserves of strength that will endure as long as life
lasts.  There is something healing in the repeated refrains of nature —
the assurance that dawn comes after night, and spring after winter.” 
Nowhere is the truth of her observation more evident than in America’s
national parks, which are irreplaceable treasures that amaze us, inspire
us, fill us with pride, and belong to all of us in equal measure.

Even while maintaining social distancing and wearing masks to protect
themselves and one another, 237 million people visited our national
parks last year to enjoy these singular wonders of our Nation.  Every
visit leaves an indelible impression — due not only to the natural
splendor of each park, but to the dedicated stewardship of the
Department of the Interior and National Park Service.

I will never forget one of my own such visits, which has long shaped my
personal reverence for our national parks.  In 1972, after my wife and
daughter were killed in a car accident, my two young sons, Beau and
Hunter, were hospitalized for an extended period.  As they recovered,
they became enamored of the idea of visiting Yellowstone — thanks in
large part to a favorite TV show, Yogi Bear, which was set in a
fictionalized version of America’s first national park.  In the summer
of 1974, my boys and I flew into Salt Lake City, rented a camper, drove
up through Dinosaur National Park and arrived for a week at
Yellowstone.  Our time there nourished us, filled us with awe, and
restored in all of us a sense of the future that had been quieted by our
loss.  As I saw my sons reengage with the world after enduring so much
pain, and felt our family begin to heal, I came to understand the truth
of Rachel Carson’s words — the power and promise of these extraordinary
places to replenish something within us.

That power touches every American lucky enough to visit our national
parks in some way, and it is our responsibility to ensure that our
national parks reflect, honor, and serve all of our people and every
community.  Recent additions to the National Park System, such as the
Medgar and Myrlie Evers Home National Monument, the Reconstruction Era
National Historical Park, the Stonewall National Monument, and the César
Chávez National Monument at the Chávez Residence in Delano, California —
along with programs such as the African American Civil Rights Network,
Underground Railroad Network to Freedom, and Tribal Heritage grants —
reflect our commitment for our parks to serve as sources of support,
validation, healing, and connection for people of color, Indigenous
people, and others who have been historically marginalized and
neglected.  Our work to bring true equity to our parks is not yet done.
 The National Park System must continue to evolve to better reflect all
of the people of our Nation, and to work in partnership with Tribal
Nations whose historic and sacred lands often fall within the boundaries
of National Parks and Monuments that have been dedicated through the
years.

During National Park Week, let us dedicate ourselves to greater
improvement, enjoyment, and preservation of our natural treasures, and
to continue to find inspiration, strength, and all else we seek within
them.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim April 17 through
April 25, 2021, as National Park Week.  I encourage all Americans to
find their park, recreate responsibly, and enjoy the benefits that come
from spending time in the natural world.  I also ask all park visitors
to do their part to stop the spread of the coronavirus by wearing masks
and practicing social distancing.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
seventeenth day of April, in the year of our Lord
two thousand twenty-one, and of the Independence of the United States
of America the two hundred and forty-fifth.

                                JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
