---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2021-04-11'
modified_time: 2021-04-20 12:46:39-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/04/11/a-proclamation-on-national-fair-housing-month-2021/
published_time: 2021-04-11 15:17:10-04:00
title: A Proclamation on National Fair Housing Month, 2021
---
 
Exactly 1 week after the assassination of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.,
struck at the soul of our Nation, President Lyndon B. Johnson signed a
landmark piece of legislation — an enduring testament to the ideals of
Dr. King that enshrined a portion of his legacy in the lives and laws of
the American people.  Fifty-three years later, the Fair Housing Act
still serves as a powerful statement about who we are as a people:  the
values of equality, equity, and dignity that we strive to uphold, and
the places where we still have work to do to fulfill our full promise as
a Nation.

The purpose of the Fair Housing Act was to put an end to inequities in
our housing system and eliminate racial segregation in American
neighborhoods — and guarantee that all people in America have the right
to obtain the housing of their choice, free from discrimination.  The
law prohibits discrimination in the sale, rental, and financing of
housing, and requires Federal, State, and local governments to
proactively dismantle the discriminatory structures that held back
people of color and other underserved populations from equitable access
to the neighborhoods of their choice.

By helping to create a fairer housing system, the law seeks to do more
than just open up American neighborhoods to all Americans.  Access to
quality housing is about more than having a roof over your head — it is
the foundation for achieving better educational, employment, and health
outcomes, as well as one of the most important ways that families build
wealth that they can pass along across the generations.  The Fair
Housing Act was created at a time when Federal and State policies held
that dream at arm’s length from far too many Black, Brown, Native, and
Asian American families through the insidious practices of redlining and
lending discrimination.

Over the course of 53 years, the law has made a world of difference in
the lives of countless families and communities.  We have also improved
upon it through the years; as a Senator, I was proud to co-sponsor the
1988 Fair Housing Act amendments that extended the law’s protections to
Americans with disabilities and families with children, and just 2
months ago my Administration issued a rule change to ensure that the law
finally guards against discrimination targeting LGBTQ+ Americans.  But
the truth of the matter is that we have not fully achieved the goals of
the Fair Housing Act — we still have so much work to do.

Many of our neighborhoods remain as segregated today as they were in the
middle of the 20th century, and the racial wealth gap is wider now than
it was when the Fair Housing Act was passed.  Though our Nation has come
a long way in many regards, our promise will not be fulfilled as long as
anyone in America is denied a good home or a fair shot because of who
they are.  It is our shared duty to work together to ensure that every
person has equitable access to all of the opportunities our communities
provide — and that no one faces barriers to getting a good education,
having quality health care, eating healthy food, or finding stable
employment that allows their family to thrive solely because of where
they live.  This is a moral responsibility that cannot wait,
particularly at a time when the COVID-19 pandemic has further
highlighted and exacerbated the lack of safe, affordable places to live
for far too many people in America.

To affirm equal opportunity as the bedrock of our democracy — and to
enlist the entire Federal Government to address entrenched disparities
in our laws, public policies, and institutions — I signed an Executive
Order on Advancing Racial Equity and Support for Underserved Communities
Through the Federal Government on my first day in office.  To ensure
that the Federal Government continues to prioritize the right to fair
housing and actively enforce our Federal civil rights laws, I also
signed a Presidential Memorandum on Redressing Our Nation’s and the
Federal Government’s History of Discriminatory Housing Practices and
Policies during my first week as President.  My Administration will
continue our efforts to close persistent racial gaps in wages, housing,
credit, lending opportunities, and access to higher education — gaps
that, if closed, would add an estimated $5 trillion in gross domestic
product in the American economy over the next 5 years.  We are committed
to doing all we can to end unlawful housing discrimination and advance
equity for all underserved populations, fulfill the full promise of the
Fair Housing Act, and put the American dream within reach of all
Americans. 

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim April 2021 as
National Fair Housing Month. I call upon the people of this Nation to
help secure freedom and justice for every American by taking action to
fulfill the promise made by the Fair Housing Act to ensure everyone has
free and fair housing choice. 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this eleventh day of
April, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-fifth.

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
