---
date: '2022-06-10'
modified_time: 2022-06-10 11:15:02-04:00
published_time: 2022-06-10 11:15:01-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/06/10/a-proclamation-on-flag-day-and-national-flag-week-2022/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Flag Day And National Flag Week,\_2022"
---
 
     On June 14, 1777, the Continental Congress passed a resolution
adopting a flag for our new Nation — the United States of America.  The
resolution specified 13 alternating red and white stripes with 13 stars
on a blue field.  The stars represented the colonies that declared
independence, and in the years since, they have grown into 50 United
States which comprise our great country today.  For centuries, mariners
looked to the stars to guide them across the seas, just as Americans and
people across the globe look to our flag as a guiding symbol of freedom,
opportunity, and hope.  On Flag Day and during National Flag Week, we
celebrate the journey of progress represented in our banner and pay
tribute to the inspiration it gives Americans at home and abroad.

     Our flag belongs to all Americans, and its red, white, and blue
colors are woven into a rich tapestry of different cultures,
backgrounds, and beliefs which connects us and honors our shared
history.  Old Glory has flown around the world in times of war and in
times of peace.  It has traveled to the Moon and to Mars.  It has sailed
on ships and flown on planes.  It waves high above the White House,
courthouses, post offices, schools, and homes across the Nation, and
also above our embassies and military bases overseas — an enduring
beacon of democracy.

     From the Revolutionary War to the modern age, American Service
members have fought bravely under the symbol of our flag, and those who
give the last full measure of devotion are wrapped in its broad stripes
and bright stars as they are laid to rest.  We honor those who serve our
country in uniform and pay homage to those who have made that ultimate
sacrifice.

     Every day, the American Flag instills pride — reminding us of the
ideals upon which our Nation was founded and the values for which we
stand.  As we pledge our allegiance to the Star-Spangled Banner, and the
legacy it holds in our history, let us continue the work of perfecting
our Union so that, together, we can deliver the promise of America for
all Americans.  

     To commemorate the adoption of our flag, the Congress, by joint
resolution approved August 3, 1949, as amended (63 Stat. 492),
designated June 14 of each year as “Flag Day” and requested the
President issue an annual proclamation calling for its observance and
for the display of the flag of the United States on all Federal
Government buildings.  The Congress also requested, by joint resolution
approved June 9, 1966, as amended (80 Stat. 194), that the President
issue annually a proclamation designating the week in which June 14
occurs as “National Flag Week” and calling upon all citizens of the
United States to display the flag during that week.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, do hereby proclaim June 14, 2022, as Flag Day, and
the week starting June 12, 2022, as National Flag Week.  I direct the
appropriate officials to display the flag on all Federal Government
buildings during this week, and I urge all Americans to observe Flag Day
and National Flag Week by displaying the flag and honoring all of our
brave service members and revering those who gave their last full
measure of devotion defending our freedoms.  I encourage the people of
the United States to observe with pride and all due ceremony those days
from Flag Day through Independence Day, set aside by the Congress (89
Stat. 211), as a time to honor the American spirit, to celebrate our
history and the foundational values we strive to uphold, and to publicly
recite the Pledge of Allegiance to the Flag of the United States of
America.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this tenth day of
June, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-two, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
