---
date: '2022-06-27'
published_time: 2022-06-27 11:52:40-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/06/27/memorandum-on-extending-and-expanding-eligibility-for-deferred-enforced-departure-for-liberians/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "Memorandum on Extending and Expanding Eligibility for Deferred Enforced Departure\
  \ for\_Liberians"
---
 
MEMORANDUM FOR THE SECRETARY OF STATE  

THE SECRETARY OF HOMELAND SECURITY

SUBJECT:       Extending and Expanding Eligibility for Deferred Enforced
Departure for Liberians

Since 1991, the United States has provided safe haven for Liberians who
were forced to flee their country as a result of armed conflict and
widespread civil strife, in part through the grant of Temporary
Protected Status (TPS).  The armed conflict ended in 2003, and TPS for
affected Liberian nationals ended effective October 1, 2007.  President
Bush then deferred the enforced departure of those Liberians originally
granted TPS.  President Obama, in successive memoranda, extended that
grant of Deferred Enforced Departure (DED) to March 31, 2018. 
President Trump then determined that conditions in Liberia did not
warrant a further extension of DED, but that the foreign policy
interests of the United States warranted an orderly transition period
for Liberian DED beneficiaries.  President Trump later extended that DED
transition period through March 30, 2020.

In December 2019, the Congress enacted the National Defense
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (Public Law 116-92) (NDAA), which
included, as section 7611, the Liberian Refugee Immigration Fairness
(LRIF) provision.  The LRIF provision, with limited exceptions, makes
Liberians who have been continuously present in the United States since
November 20, 2014, as well as their spouses and children, eligible for
adjustment of status to that of lawful permanent resident (LPR).  The
NDAA gave eligible Liberian nationals until December 20, 2020, to apply
for this adjustment of status.  After the enactment of the LRIF
provision, President Trump further extended the DED transition period
through January 10, 2021, to ensure that DED beneficiaries would
continue to be eligible for employment authorization during the LRIF
application period.

The LRIF application process was new and complex, resulting in some
procedural and administrative challenges.  Recognizing these
difficulties, the Congress enacted a 1-year extension to the application
period in section 901 of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2021
(Public Law 116-260).  That legislation, however, did not provide for
continued employment authorization past January 10, 2021.  Through my
memorandum of January 20, 2021 (Reinstating Deferred Enforced Departure
for Liberians), DED was subsequently reinstated through June 30, 2022,
in order to permit employment authorization for eligible Liberians while
they made their applications for adjustment of status under the LRIF
provision.

There are compelling foreign policy reasons to extend DED for an
additional period for those Liberians presently residing in the United
States who were under a grant of DED until June 30, 2022, as well as to
defer enforced departure for Liberians who have been continuously
present in the United States since May 20, 2017.  In addition to
updating the continuous presence requirement, I have also determined
that it is appropriate to include qualifying Liberians whose LRIF
applications have been denied for reasons other than ineligibility under
sections 7611(b)(1)(C) and (b)(3) of the NDAA in this DED designation. 
In particular, this includes providing protection from removal to those
who arrived in the United States during a time when conditions prevented
them from returning safely, including through May 20, 2017, and have
since established family and community ties in the United States.
 Providing protection from removal and work authorization to these
Liberians, for whom we have long authorized TPS or DED in the United
States, including while they complete the LRIF status-adjustment
process, honors the historic close relationship between the United
States and Liberia and is in the foreign policy interests of the United
States.

Pursuant to my constitutional authority to conduct the foreign relations
of the United States, I have determined that it is in the foreign policy
interests of the United States to defer through June 30, 2024, the
removal of any Liberian national, or person without nationality who last
habitually resided in Liberia, who is present in the United States and
who was under a grant of DED as of June 30, 2022, as well as any
Liberian national, or person without nationality who last habitually
resided in Liberia, who has been continuously physically present in the
United States since May 20, 2017.  I have also determined that any
Liberian national, or person without nationality who last habitually
resided in Liberia, who was under a grant of DED as of June 30, 2022, or
who has been continuously physically present in the United States since
May 20, 2017, should have continued employment authorization through
June 30, 2024.

The Secretary of Homeland Security shall promptly direct the appropriate
officials to make provision, by means of a notice published in the
*Federal Register*, for immediate allowance of employment authorization
for those Liberians who held appropriate DED-related employment
authorization documents as of June 30, 2022, or those Liberian nationals
who have been continuously present in the United States since May 20,
2017.  The Secretary of Homeland Security shall also provide for the
prompt issuance of new or replacement employment authorization documents
in appropriate cases.

This grant of DED and continued employment authorization shall apply to
any Liberian DED beneficiary as of June 30, 2022, or any Liberian
national who has been continuously present in the United States since
May 20, 2017, but shall not apply to such persons in the following
categories:

(1)  individuals who would be ineligible for TPS for the reasons
provided in section 244(c)(2)(B) of the Immigration and Nationality Act,
8 U.S.C. 1254a(c)(2)(B);

(2)  individuals who sought or seek LPR status under the LRIF provision
but whose applications have been or are denied by the Secretary of
Homeland Security due to ineligibility for the LRIF provision under
sections 7611(b)(1)(C) and (b)(3) of the NDAA;

(3)  individuals whose removal the Secretary of Homeland Security
determines is in the interest of the United States, subject to the LRIF
provision;

(4)  individuals whose presence or activities in the United States the
Secretary of State has reasonable grounds to believe would have
potentially serious adverse foreign policy consequences for the United
States;

(5)  individuals who have voluntarily returned to Liberia or their
country of last habitual residence outside the United States for an
aggregate period of 180 days or more, as specified in subsection (c)(2)
of the LRIF provision; or

(6)  individuals who are subject to extradition.

Accordingly, I hereby direct the Secretary of Homeland Security to take
the necessary steps to implement for eligible Liberians:

(1)  a deferral of enforced departure from the United States through
June 30, 2024, effective immediately; and

(2)  authorization for employment valid through June 30, 2024.

The Secretary of Homeland Security is authorized and directed to publish
this memorandum in the *Federal Register*.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
