---
date: '2022-06-13'
published_time: 2022-06-13 17:03:47-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/06/13/notice-on-the-continuation-of-the-national-emergency-with-respect-to-the-western-balkans-2/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "Notice on the Continuation of the National Emergency with Respect to the Western\_\
  Balkans"
---
 
On June 26, 2001, by Executive Order 13219, the President declared a
national emergency with respect to the Western Balkans pursuant to the
International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 *et seq*.)
to deal with the unusual and extraordinary threat to the national
security and foreign policy of the United States constituted by the
actions of persons engaged in, or assisting, sponsoring, or supporting,
(i) extremist violence in the former Republic of Macedonia (what is now
the Republic of North Macedonia) and elsewhere in the Western Balkans
region, or (ii) acts obstructing implementation of the Dayton Accords in
Bosnia or United Nations Security Council Resolution 1244 of June 10,
1999, in Kosovo.  The President subsequently amended that order in
Executive Order 13304 of May 28, 2003, to take additional steps with
respect to certain actions that obstruct implementation of, among other
things, the Ohrid Framework Agreement of 2001 relating to Macedonia
(what is now the Republic of North Macedonia).

On June 8, 2021, I signed Executive Order 14033, which expanded the
scope of the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13219, as
amended, finding that the situation in the territory of the former
Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia and the Republic of Albania
(the Western Balkans), over the past two decades, including the
undermining of post-war agreements and institutions following the
breakup of the former Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, as well
as widespread corruption within various governments and institutions in
the Western Balkans, stymies progress toward effective and democratic
governance and full integration into transatlantic institutions, and
thereby constitutes an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national
security and foreign policy of the United States.  
The actions of persons threatening the peace and international
stabilization efforts in the Western Balkans, including acts of
extremist violence and obstructionist activity, and the situation in the
Western Balkans, which stymies progress toward effective and democratic
governance and full integration into transatlantic institutions,
continue to pose an unusual and extraordinary threat to the national
security and foreign policy of the United States.  For this reason, the
national emergency declared in Executive Order 13219, under which
additional steps were taken in Executive Order 13304, and which was
expanded in scope in Executive Order 14033, must continue in effect
beyond June 26, 2022.  Therefore, in accordance with section 202(d) of
the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1622(d)), I am continuing for 1
year the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13219 with
respect to the Western Balkans.

This notice shall be published in the *Federal Register* and transmitted
to the Congress.             

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR. 

THE WHITE HOUSE,  
June 13, 2022.
