---
date: '2022-06-17'
modified_time: 2022-06-17 10:03:02-04:00
published_time: 2022-06-17 10:03:01-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/06/17/a-proclamation-on-fathers-day-2022/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Father\u2019s Day,\_2022"
---
 
Every year on Father’s Day, we honor the men who help shape our
character through their love, guidance, and devotion.  Dads and father
figures across the country sacrifice so much to support their families
and to ensure that their children can lead fulfilling lives. 

     I remember my own father, who instilled in me some of the most
important values that guide me to this day.  He taught me to treat all
people with dignity, and that there is no higher calling than to be a
good parent.  He informed the way that I raised my own children — and
how they continue to raise theirs.  Just like my father, dads all over
our country help teach their kids a sense of right and wrong that stays
with them their entire lives.  We owe these wonderful fathers a great
deal of respect and gratitude. 

     For many of us, Father’s Day is an opportunity to pause and
remember the fathers, stepfathers, father figures, grandfathers,
brothers, and children that we have lost — but who are never gone.  Too
many of us know a dad who was lost too soon or a father who has lost a
child.  The pain runs deep, but we draw strength from knowing that our
loved ones will always remain with us.

     Like so many Americans, I am thankful for the precious time I have
had both as a son and as a father.  The unique challenges of the last
few years have reminded us to cherish the time we have with our dads —
learning more from them, showing them more gratitude, and showering them
with more love.

     My Administration is dedicated to supporting our Nation’s fathers
and families.  We provided historic funding to help parents access child
care during the pandemic, and we continue to fight for lower costs and
higher quality child care for the long term.  We are working to ensure
that parents can access paid leave as they welcome a new child or care
for a sick loved one.  Additionally, we are working tirelessly for safer
communities so that all fathers can raise their children in flourishing
neighborhoods.  From my own personal experience as a single dad, I know
how critical support is when raising a family.  That is why we remain
committed to helping single parents ensure that their children have
equal opportunities to thrive. 

     On Father’s Day, we pay tribute to the dads, stepdads,
grandfathers, and father figures who lift us up on their shoulders so
that we can reach our full potential.  We express our gratitude for all
that they sacrifice on our behalf.  We honor the contributions they make
every day to strengthen their families and our Nation.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, in accordance with a joint resolution of the Congress
approved April 24, 1972, as amended (36 U.S.C. 109) do hereby proclaim
June 19, 2022, as Father’s Day.  I direct the appropriate officials of
the Government to display the flag of the United States on all
Government buildings on this day.  Let us honor our fathers, living and
deceased, and show them the love and gratitude they deserve.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this seventeenth
day of June, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-two, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
