---
date: '2022-06-27'
published_time: 2022-06-27 11:54:15-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/06/27/memorandum-on-combating-illegal-unreported-and-unregulated-fishing-and-associated-labor-abuses/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "Memorandum on Combating Illegal, Unreported, and Unregulated Fishing and Associated\
  \ Labor\_Abuses"
---
 
National Security Memorandum/NSM-11

MEMORANDUM FOR THE SECRETARY OF STATE

               THE SECRETARY OF THE TREASURY

               THE SECRETARY OF DEFENSE

               THE ATTORNEY GENERAL

               THE SECRETARY OF COMMERCE

               THE SECRETARY OF LABOR

               THE SECRETARY OF HOMELAND SECURITY

               THE UNITED STATES TRADE REPRESENTATIVE

               THE REPRESENTATIVE OF THE UNITED STATES

                  OF AMERICA TO THE UNITED NATIONS

               THE DIRECTOR OF THE OFFICE OF SCIENCE AND

   TECHNOLOGY POLICY

THE ADMINISTRATOR OF THE UNITED STATES AGENCY

                  FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT

SUBJECT:       Combating Illegal, Unreported, and Unregulated

               Fishing and Associated Labor Abuses

Illegal, unreported, and unregulated (IUU) fishing and related harmful
fishing practices are among the greatest threats to ocean health and are
significant causes of global overfishing, contributing to the collapse
or decline of fisheries that are critical to the economic growth, food
systems, and ecosystems of numerous countries around the world.  Distant
water fishing vessels, which engage in industrial-scale fishing
operations on the high seas and in waters under other states’
jurisdictions, can be significant perpetrators of IUU fishing and
related harmful fishing practices.  IUU fishing often involves forced
labor, a form of human trafficking, and other crimes and human rights
abuses.  Left unchecked, IUU fishing and associated labor abuses
undermine U.S. economic competitiveness, national security, fishery
sustainability, and the livelihoods and human rights of fishers around
the world and will exacerbate the environmental and socioeconomic
effects of climate change.

Section 1.  Policy.  It is the policy of my Administration to address
the problem of IUU fishing, including by distant water fishing vessels,
and associated labor abuses, including the use of forced labor in the
seafood supply chain.  I hereby direct executive departments and
agencies (agencies) to work toward ending forced labor and other crimes
or abuses in IUU fishing; promote sustainable use of the oceans in
partnership with other nations and the private sector; and advance
foreign and trade policies that benefit U.S. seafood workers.  No
nation, government entity, or non-governmental organization can address
IUU fishing and associated labor abuses single-handedly.  I therefore
direct agencies to increase coordination among themselves and with
diverse stakeholders — public and private, foreign and domestic — to
address these challenges comprehensively.  With this memorandum, I
direct agencies to use the full range of existing conservation, labor,
trade, economic, diplomatic, law enforcement, and national security
authorities to address these challenges.  Where applicable, activities
will be carried out through or in coordination with the Interagency
Working Group on IUU Fishing established pursuant to section 3551 of the
Maritime Security and Fisheries Enforcement (SAFE) Act (16 U.S.C. 8031),
the Forced Labor Enforcement Task Force established pursuant to section
741 of the United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement Implementation Act (19
U.S.C. 4681), and as appropriate the President’s Interagency Task Force
to Monitor and Combat Trafficking in Persons established pursuant to
section 105 of the Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C.
7103).

Sec. 2.  Forced Labor in the Fishing Industry.  The United States is
committed to promoting labor rights and human rights and fundamental
freedoms through worker-centered trade policies, and to working to
eliminate abusive labor practices, in particular forced labor, in supply
chains.  Agencies shall enhance interagency coordination and the use of
existing tools and authorities to address the challenge of forced labor
in the seafood supply chain.

(a)  The United States Trade Representative (USTR), in coordination with
the Secretary of State, the Secretary of Labor, the Secretary of
Commerce through the Administrator of the National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), and other relevant agencies, shall:

(i)    continue to engage in the World Trade Organization negotiations
on fisheries subsidies to seek additional disciplines prohibiting
fisheries subsidies that contribute to overcapacity and overfishing, and
to seek additional transparency with respect to IUU fishing and the use
of forced labor on fishing vessels;

\(ii\)   engage, in coordination with the Secretary of Labor, with trade
partners, including free trade agreement partners and preference program
beneficiaries, to address forced labor and other abusive labor practices
in fishing; and

(iii)  seek to collaborate with Mexico and Canada under the
United States-Mexico-Canada Agreement to prohibit the importation of
goods, including seafood, produced in whole or in part by forced labor.

\(b\)  The Secretary of State, the Secretary of Labor, the USTR, and the
Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development
(USAID), in coordination with the Administrator of NOAA and other
relevant agencies, shall continue to highlight links between IUU fishing
and forced labor and other abusive labor practices, with a focus on
distant water fishing and vessels using flags of convenience to continue
unsustainable fishing practices.  These heads of agencies shall adjust
the mix of United States Government messaging and promotion of
non-governmental voices to achieve the greatest effect and shall develop
themes and narratives that resonate with target audiences including
foreign governments, the private sector, and global and U.S. consumers.

(c)  The Secretary of Homeland Security, through the Commissioner of
U.S. Customs and Border Protection (CBP) and in coordination with the
Administrator of NOAA, shall:

\(i\)    investigate fishing vessels and operators suspected to be
harvesting seafood with forced labor and issue withhold release orders,
as appropriate;

\(ii\)   at the discretion of relevant CBP officials, share evidence
with allies and partners to encourage parallel customs enforcement
actions, as appropriate;

(iii)  investigate prospective civil penalty cases against importers
connected to previously issued fishing vessel withhold release orders,
as appropriate;

(iv)   in coordination with other relevant agencies, use the Forced
Labor Enforcement Task Force to monitor United States enforcement of the
prohibition under section 307 of the Tariff Act of 1930 (19 U.S.C. 1307)
to prevent the importation of seafood harvested with forced labor into
the United States; and

\(v\)    use Maritime Operational Threat Response processes to
facilitate interagency notifications, responses, and legal enforcement
actions for IUU fishing offenses, including taking appropriate action
when forced labor is identified.

(d)  The Secretaries of State and the Treasury shall, as appropriate,
consider whether their respective sanctions and visa restriction
authorities may be used to address IUU fishing and associated labor
abuses.  These heads of agencies shall consider, as appropriate, whether
to share evidentiary packages with allies and partners to facilitate
parallel sanctions or visa restriction actions.

(e)  The Secretary of Labor, in coordination with the Secretary of State
and the Administrators of NOAA and USAID, shall engage financial
institutions, business organizations, labor stakeholders, and seafood
importers on forced labor in seafood supply chains, including by
promoting supply chain transparency and responsible business practices. 
These heads of agencies shall promote dissemination of information on
the harms of IUU fishing and associated labor abuses in order to
encourage greater corporate and consumer demand for due diligence,
mechanisms to certify that seafood supply chains are free of forced
labor, and the halting of financial transactions involving forced
labor.  These heads of agencies are encouraged to apply lessons learned
from United States Government policies addressing the use of forced
labor in the cotton sector and in other relevant sectors.  The
Administrator of USAID shall work to build regional networks between
civil society organizations, trade unions, migrant worker networks, and
recruitment agencies to address exploitation in the seafood industry.
 These networks should incorporate worker voices, including survivors of
forced labor, to counter labor abuses and provide legal aid to migrant
workers in the fishing industry. 

(f)  The Secretary of Labor shall use labor and development programs to
provide training and technical support to national security-focused
agencies, including the Department of Defense and the United States
Coast Guard, and foreign partners on combating forced labor and other
abusive labor practices on fishing vessels.

(g)  The Secretary of Labor shall continue to raise public awareness
about labor practices in the seafood industry, including by continuing
to maintain its list of goods it has reason to believe are produced by
forced labor or child labor in violation of international standards.

Sec. 3.  Multilateral and Regional Solutions That Support Sustainable
Fishing.  It is the policy of my Administration to revitalize U.S.
leadership in multilateral institutions, including regional bodies.  I
therefore direct agencies to collaborate with these organizations to
increase global attention to the challenges of IUU fishing, including by
distant water fishing vessels, and related abusive labor practices, such
as the use of forced labor in seafood supply chains.  My Administration
will harness our international partners’ energy and innovative capacity
to design and implement solutions.

     (a)  The Secretaries of State and Labor, the USTR, and the
Administrators of NOAA and USAID shall promote decent work, counter
forced labor, and take other actions to address IUU fishing and related
harmful fishing practices at the Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO)
of the United Nations (UN), the International Labor Organization (ILO),
and the International Maritime Organization (IMO).  These heads of
agencies shall work with the FAO to draft guidelines on social
responsibility in fisheries and value chains and shall support ILO
research on forced labor in fishing.

\(i\)    The Secretaries of State and the Treasury shall consider
whether to seek funding from the Congress and donors for multi-donor
trust funds or regional programs at multilateral development banks to
combat IUU fishing.

(ii)   The Secretary of State, the Attorney General, and the
Administrators of NOAA and USAID shall, as appropriate, elevate the
issue of IUU fishing at the UN Food Systems Summit.

(iii)  The Attorney General and the Administrators of NOAA and USAID
shall support the International Criminal Police Organization to combat
conservation crimes, including those related to IUU fishing, and build
capacity for fisheries managers and investigators.

(iv)   The Secretaries of State and Labor, the USTR, and the
Administrators of NOAA and USAID shall explore concrete efforts to
collaborate with G7 members on addressing forced labor in fishing.  The
Secretary of State, the Administrator of NOAA, and other relevant
agencies shall use the G7’s focus on addressing unsustainable fishing
practices as outlined in the 2030 Nature Compact to increase attention
to and pursue efforts to counter harmful fishing practices.

(b)  The Administrator of NOAA, in coordination with the Secretaries of
State and Labor, the Secretary of Homeland Security through the
Commandant of the United States Coast Guard, and the USTR, shall engage
with regional fisheries management organizations to encourage adoption
of measures that identify and counter IUU fishing, including high seas
boarding inspection schemes.  Additionally, these heads of agencies
shall collaborate on regional initiatives to address forced labor and
other harmful practices in the seafood industry, which will include:

\(i\)     The Administrator of NOAA and other relevant agencies shall
promote transatlantic cooperation to counter the use of forced labor in
seafood supply chains, including through the United States-European
Union (EU) High-Level Dialogue on Fisheries.

(ii)    The Secretaries of State and Defense shall collaborate with
counterparts in the Quad (which is composed of Australia, India, Japan,
and the United States) to design and facilitate the implementation of a
multilateral initiative, the Indo-Pacific Partnership for Maritime
Domain Awareness, to strengthen maritime domain awareness and maritime
security in South Asia, Southeast Asia, and the Pacific Islands using
advanced commercial satellite data.  The Administrators of NOAA and
USAID, the Commandant of the United States Coast Guard, and the
Intelligence Community shall support this endeavor as appropriate. 

(iii)   The Secretaries of State and Labor and the Administrators of
NOAA and USAID shall collaborate with the Association of Southeast Asian
Nations (ASEAN) to encourage the design of technical assistance
programming to address forced labor in fishing, linking these efforts to
the US-ASEAN Plan of Action.

(iv)    The Secretary of State and the Administrators of NOAA and USAID
shall collaborate with Pacific Island nations, including through the
Pacific Islands Forum, to counter IUU fishing and related human
trafficking, including forced labor.

\(v\)     The Secretaries of State and Labor and the Administrator of
NOAA shall explore opportunities for cooperation in the Asia-Pacific
Economic Cooperation (APEC) to begin discussions on forced labor and
other abusive practices in fishing, linking these efforts to the APEC
Roadmap on Combatting IUU Fishing.

\(vi\)    The Secretary of State, in collaboration with the
Administrators of NOAA and USAID, shall elevate the issue of IUU
fishing, including by distant water fishing vessels, and related harmful
fishing practices, at any future Our Ocean Conferences and in meetings
and working groups of the Organization of American States, APEC, the
African Union, relevant African sub-regional bodies, and the Pacific
Alliance.

\(vii\)   The Administrator of USAID shall work to initiate partnerships
with and support multilateral institutions such as the Southeast Asian
Fisheries Development Center and the Coral Triangle Initiative to
counter IUU fishing.

(viii)  The Secretaries of State and Defense, in collaboration with the
Administrator of NOAA, shall explore opportunities for cooperation
between Atlantic Basin African maritime forces and the United States
Africa Command to improve West African capacity to detect and counter
IUU fishing.

(ix)    The Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy, in
collaboration with the Secretaries of State and Commerce and the
Administrator of NOAA, shall continue to pursue opportunities through
the High Level Panel for a Sustainable Ocean Economy (Ocean Panel) to
promote international collaboration to counter IUU fishing and integrate
best practices into the National Sustainable Ocean Plans of each Ocean
Panel country.

Sec. 4.  Partner Engagement, Capacity, and Resilience.  The United
States benefits from an unparalleled ability to shape global discourse
and convene stakeholders from government, civil society, and the private
sector.  The United States’ track record of conserving fisheries and
combating forced labor enables it to lead by the power of example.  The
United States’ robust network of alliances and partnerships and its
broad array of conservation, law enforcement, trade, economic,
diplomatic, labor, and other authorities and programs can be used to
generate innovative, cross-cutting, and powerful solutions.  It is the
policy of my Administration to harness these advantages to address the
challenge of IUU fishing, including by distant water fishing vessels,
and related harmful fishing practices, such as forced labor in the
seafood supply chain.

(a)  The United States has a strong track record of making environmental
data, such as data produced by the U.S. Global Change Research Program
and its participating agencies, freely available to partners and the
general public.  The Office of Science and Technology Policy shall
support the interagency policy committee process in assessing the
best-available evidence concerning fisheries-environment interactions.
 This may include, for example, identifying regions more likely to be at
risk of harmful and unsustainable fishing practices due to climate
change and its resulting threats to food security.

(b)  The Secretaries of State and Defense and the Administrator of USAID
shall work with partners to use all available tools to increase maritime
domain awareness to combat IUU fishing, including increasing the use of
vessel tracking systems, aerial surveillance, and radio frequency data,
as well as utilizing emerging technologies such as advances in machine
learning paired with synthetic aperture radar, as appropriate.  The
Administrator of USAID shall also continue to promote the use of
communication technology to improve connectivity and safety for
commercial fishing vessels and support ethical and sustainable fishing
practices.

(c)  The Administrator of USAID, in coordination with the Secretaries of
State, Commerce, and Labor; the USTR; the Commandant of the United
States Coast Guard; and the Administrator of NOAA, shall strengthen
alliances with non-governmental organizations, think tanks, organized
labor, academia, industry associations, and the business community to
highlight and address IUU fishing and associated labor abuses, including
forced labor, in the seafood sector, and to develop best practices for
combating these abuses, promoting sustainable fisheries, rebuilding fish
stocks, and empowering fisheries workers.  These heads of agencies shall
engage with fishers, fish processing workers, port workers, and relevant
trade unions to seek input on the real-world impacts of IUU fishing and
abusive labor practices.  The Administrator of USAID and other relevant
agencies shall use development and technical assistance programs, as
appropriate, to address corruption in governance systems; support
judicial reform and public financial management; and build journalist,
trade union, and civil society capacity to raise awareness of IUU
fishing. 

(d)  The Secretary of State, in coordination with the Secretaries of the
Treasury, Defense, and Homeland Security; the USTR; the Administrators
of NOAA and USAID; the Commandant of the United States Coast Guard; the
United States Mission to the European Union; and other heads of
departments and agencies as appropriate, shall cooperate with the EU,
Japan, other G7 members, and other partner countries, together or
individually, to work to counter harmful fishing practices in West
Africa, Latin America and the Caribbean, and the Indo-Pacific.  These
heads of departments and agencies shall:

\(i\)    identify and, as appropriate, seek resources for technical
skills training in littoral Africa, including ship inspections, ship
maintenance, and oversight of maritime governance programs;

\(ii\)   develop information-sharing networks and arrangements with
partner countries to inform a maritime common operating picture to
improve regional maritime domain awareness and combat IUU fishing in the
South Atlantic, Oceania, Indo-Pacific, Eastern Pacific, and West Africa;

(iii)  leverage opportunities to include IUU fishing provisions within
existing and new bilateral maritime law enforcement agreements with
partner nations, including in Latin America and the Caribbean and
Africa; and

\(iv\)   use all available intelligence capabilities to identify and
enable, as appropriate, interdiction of vessels conducting or engaged in
IUU fishing, particularly those that are operating within the exclusive
economic zones of nations with which the United States has bilateral
maritime law enforcement agreements.

(e)  The Administrator of NOAA, in collaboration with the Secretary of
State and the Commandant of the United States Coast Guard, shall
encourage adoption of the Agreement on Port State Measures to Prevent,
Deter, and Eliminate Illegal, Unreported, and Unregulated Fishing and
shall provide assistance, as appropriate, for its implementation,
including training and capacity building, as directed by the Maritime
SAFE Act.  The Administrator of USAID shall strategically support
interagency partners to strengthen Port State Measures programs in
individual states.

     (f)  The Administrator of NOAA shall seek resources, as
appropriate, to deploy fisheries enforcement representatives to posts to
support regional efforts to counter IUU fishing and to build capacity
for monitoring, control, and surveillance to combat IUU fishing and
related harmful fishing practices, such as forced labor.  

(i)   The Administrator of NOAA, in collaboration with the Secretary of
State and the Commandant of the United States Coast Guard, shall work to
improve maritime law enforcement coordination in partner countries to
address IUU fishing, related abusive labor practices, and trade of
protected marine species.

(ii)  The Secretary of Defense shall use, as appropriate, Maritime
Security Initiatives to enhance maritime detection capabilities of
eligible countries within their exclusive economic zones, increase
maritime domain awareness in the Indo-Pacific and Africa, and develop a
common operating picture for regional information sharing.

(g)  The Secretary of State and the Administrators of NOAA and USAID
shall endeavor to assist developing countries with the establishment and
enforcement of marine protected areas to promote the conservation of
fish species and sustainable coastal management.

(h)  The Secretary of State, the Administrators of NOAA and USAID, and
other relevant agencies shall engage with partners to promote legally
caught fish and seafood supply chains that are free of forced labor as
the preferred option and to highlight its benefits.

Sec. 5.  Import Markets.  The United States is the world’s single
largest country market for seafood; more than 85 percent of the seafood
Americans consume is imported.  The United States has taken steps to
limit the market for products derived from IUU fishing and forced labor,
but additional action is required.  It is the policy of my
Administration to combat abuses and to strengthen incentives for ethical
behavior in the global seafood industry, including by limiting the
market for products derived from IUU fishing, forced labor, or other
abusive labor practices.  Agencies should seek opportunities to leverage
the United States’ large seafood import market to advance these
objectives and unify public messaging that condemns IUU fishing. 
Wherever possible, agencies should seek opportunities to coordinate
international messaging that condemns IUU fishing with like-minded
partners.  The United States, the EU, and Japan together account for
approximately 55 percent of the global seafood market, providing an
opportunity to work with democratic market economies to develop more
powerful signals to the global seafood market.

(a)  By the end of 2022, the Administrator of NOAA shall initiate a
rulemaking to expand the Seafood Import Monitoring Program (SIMP) to
include additional species and species groups, as appropriate.  NOAA
shall continue to seek resources and technological tools to improve the
effectiveness of SIMP and other efforts to address IUU fishing.  NOAA
shall pursue its ongoing efforts to conduct risk-based assessments of
SIMP species and species groups and continuously expand coverage of the
program, as appropriate, to meet the objectives of combating IUU fishing
and seafood fraud most effectively.

(b)  The Administrator of NOAA, the Commissioner of CBP, and other
relevant agencies shall work to leverage existing and emerging
technologies to detect IUU fishing and prevent or deter illegal seafood
imports from entering U.S. markets.

(c)  The Secretaries of State and Labor, the USTR, the Administrator of
NOAA, the Commissioner of CBP, and other relevant agencies shall explore
opportunities to use existing trade tools and authorities to counter
forced labor in the seafood supply chain and IUU fishing generally, such
as through the use, as appropriate, of countervailing duties, actions
pursuant to section 301 of the Trade Act of 1974 (19 U.S.C. 2411),
import declarations, certification under the Pelly Amendment to the
Fishermen’s Protective Act of 1967 (22 U.S.C. 1978), and due diligence
requirements.  These heads of agencies shall work to develop new tools
and authorities to address gaps and shall work with partners to take
parallel actions.

(d)  The Secretaries of State and Labor and the Administrator of NOAA
shall work to build on existing dialogues and cooperation mechanisms
with allies, partners, and international organizations to develop joint
or complementary approaches to addressing forced labor in the global
seafood industry.

(e)  The Administrator of USAID shall convene leaders from industry,
civil society, and government to develop recommendations for improving
information flows that create meaningful deterrence, accountability, and
remedies for illegality in labor and harvesting practices in wild
fisheries.

Sec. 6.  General Provisions.  (a)  Nothing in this memorandum shall be
construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i)   the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency,
or the head thereof; or

(ii)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b)  This memorandum shall be implemented consistent with applicable law
and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(c)  This memorandum is not intended to, and does not, create any right
or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity
by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
