---
date: '2022-06-27'
published_time: 2022-06-27 11:35:16-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/06/27/proclamation-on-increasing-duties-on-certain-articles-from-the-russian-federation/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "Proclamation on Increasing Duties on Certain Articles from the Russian\_Federation"
---
 
1.  On April 8, 2022, I signed the Suspending Normal Trade Relations
with Russia and Belarus Act (19 U.S.C. 2434 note) (Suspending NTR Act). 
Section 3(a) of the Suspending NTR Act suspended nondiscriminatory
tariff treatment for products of the Russian Federation and of the
Republic of Belarus, and imposed the rates of duty set forth in column 2
of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States (HTSUS) on all
products of the Russian Federation and of the Republic of Belarus,
effective as of April 9, 2022.  Section 3(b)(1) of the Suspending NTR
Act provides that the President may proclaim increases in the column 2
rates of duty applicable to products of the Russian Federation and of
the Republic of Belarus.

     2.  On April 8, 2022, I signed the Ending Importation of Russian
Oil Act (22 U.S.C. 8923 note).  Section 2 of the Ending Importation of
Russian Oil Act prohibits imports of all products of the Russian
Federation classified under chapter 27 of the HTSUS, in a manner
consistent with any implementation actions issued under Executive Order
14066 of March 8, 2022.

3.  In Executive Order 14066 of March 8, 2022, I prohibited, inter alia,
importation into the United States of the following products of Russian
Federation origin:  crude oil; petroleum; petroleum fuels, oils, and
products of their distillation; liquefied natural gas; coal; and coal
products.

4.  In Executive Order 14068 of March 11, 2022, I prohibited, inter
alia, the importation into the United States of the following products
of Russian Federation origin:  fish, seafood, and preparations thereof;
alcoholic beverages; and non-industrial diamonds.

5.  In accordance with section 3(b)(1) of the Suspending NTR Act, I have
determined that increasing the column 2 rates of duty to 35 percent ad
valorem on certain other products of the Russian Federation, the
importation of which has not already been prohibited, is warranted and
consistent with the foreign policy interests of the United States.
 These products are listed in Annex A to this proclamation.  The United
States will monitor the implementation of the increased duties, and I
may revisit this determination, as appropriate.

6.  Section 604 of the Trade Act of 1974, as amended (19 U.S.C. 2483),
authorizes the President to embody in the HTSUS the substance of
statutes affecting import treatment, and actions thereunder, including
the removal, modification, continuance, or imposition of any rate of
duty or other import restriction.

Now, Therefore, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by the authority vested in me by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, including section 3 of the
Suspending Normal Trade Relations with Russia and Belarus Act; section
301 of title 3, United States Code; and section 604 of the Trade Act of
1974, as amended, do hereby proclaim as follows:

     (1)  To increase the column 2 rates of duty on imports of certain
articles of the Russian Federation as set forth in paragraph 5 of this
proclamation, HTSUS heading 9903.90.08 and new U.S. Note 30 to
subchapter III of chapter 99 of the HTSUS are provided for in Annex A to
this proclamation.   

(2)  The modifications to the HTSUS made by clause 1 of this
proclamation shall be effective with respect to goods entered for
consumption, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after
12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on the day that is 30 days after the
date of this proclamation and shall continue in effect, unless such
actions are expressly reduced, modified, or terminated.

(3)  General Note 3(b) to the HTSUS is amended to add the Republic of
Belarus and the Russian Federation to the list of countries subject to
column 2 duties.  This amendment is provided in Annex B to this
proclamation.

(4)  Any provision of previous proclamations and Executive Orders that
is inconsistent with the actions taken in this proclamation is
superseded to the extent of such inconsistency.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-seventh
day of June, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-two, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
