---
date: '2022-06-22'
published_time: 2022-06-22 11:00:32-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/06/22/a-proclamation-on-the-50th-anniversary-of-the-federal-pell-grant-program/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on the 50th Anniversary of the Federal Pell Grant\_Program"
---
 
    For 50 years, the Federal Pell Grant program has been the
cornerstone of our Nation’s efforts to create a financial pathway for
tens of millions of low- and middle-income students to attend college. 
Established by the Congress in 1972 and named after former United States
Senator from Rhode Island Claiborne Pell, a champion of higher education
with whom I served in the United States Senate, Pell Grants are awarded
to students based exclusively on their financial need.  Since the
program’s creation, Pell Grants have helped more than 80 million
students attend college and pursue their dreams.  
  
    Today, Pell Grants form the foundation of many students’ financial
assistance packages — especially for students of color.  As the single
largest source of grants for postsecondary education, Pell Grants were
awarded to more than one-third of undergraduate students last academic
year.

     My Administration is committed to ensuring that higher education is
equitable, accessible, and affordable for every student across the
country.  That is why, earlier this year, I signed a bill that includes
the largest Pell Grant increase in over a decade.  My Fiscal Year 2023
Budget calls for another historic increase in Pell Grants for academic
year 2023-2024 and would double the maximum Pell Grants provided by
2029.  Together, these investments will make it possible for more
students from all backgrounds to pursue a postsecondary education that
prepares them for quality employment and helps our Nation compete in the
21st century.

     My Administration has also significantly expanded the Second Chance
Pell Initiative, which enables students who are incarcerated to receive
this critical grant aid so they can participate in postsecondary
education programs, supporting their success and helping them make
greater contributions to society upon their release.  First established
in 2015 by the Obama-Biden Administration, the Initiative has expanded
under my Administration to 73 additional schools, providing access to
education to thousands of additional students, reducing recidivism
rates, and improving public safety.  This will help the Department of
Education prepare for the full expansion of Pell Grant eligibility to
incarcerated students in July 2023.

     On this 50th anniversary, our Nation pays tribute to the importance
of Federal Pell Grants and the opportunities they afford millions of
students across our Nation.  Today, let us recommit to expanding access
to quality education so that all of our citizens are empowered to
achieve their professional goals and contribute to the success and
prosperity of America.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim June
23, 2022, as the 50th Anniversary of the Federal Pell Grant Program.  I
call upon all Americans to observe this milestone and to recognize the
significant contribution Pell Grants have made to strengthen our
Nation’s prosperity by making a college education more available to all
of our children.

      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-second
day of June, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-two, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.

                                 JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
