---
date: '2022-06-16'
modified_time: 2022-06-16 09:47:47-04:00
published_time: 2022-06-16 09:47:46-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/06/16/memorandum-on-the-establishment-of-the-white-house-task-force-to-address-online-harassment-and-abuse/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "Memorandum on the Establishment of the White\_House Task Force to Address\
  \ Online Harassment and\_Abuse"
---
 
MEMORANDUM FOR THE HEADS OF EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENTS AND AGENCIES

SUBJECT:       Establishment of the White House Task Force to  
Address Online Harassment and Abuse

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, and in order to improve efforts to
prevent and address online harassment and abuse, it is hereby ordered as
follows:

Section 1.  Policy.  Technology platforms and social media can be vital
tools for expression, civic participation, and building a sense of
community.  But the scale, reach, and amplification effects of
technology platforms have also exacerbated gender-based violence,
particularly through online harassment and abuse.  Online harassment and
abuse include a broad array of harmful and sometimes illegal behaviors
that are perpetrated through the use of technology.  Women, adolescent
girls, and LGBTQI+ individuals, who may be additionally targeted because
of their race, ethnicity, religion, and other factors, can experience
more severe harms from online harassment and abuse.  Online harassment
and abuse take many forms, including the non-consensual distribution of
intimate digital images; cyberstalking; sextortion; doxing; malicious
deep fakes; gendered disinformation; rape and death threats; the online
recruitment and exploitation of victims of sex trafficking; and various
forms of technology-facilitated intimate partner abuse.  In the United
States, 1 in 3 women under the age of 35 reports having been sexually
harassed online, and over half of LGBTQI+ individuals report having been
the target of severe online abuse, including sustained harassment,
physical threats, and stalking in addition to sexual
harassment.  Globally, half of girls report that they are more likely to
be harassed through social media than on the street.

In the United States and around the world, women and LGBTQI+ political
leaders, public figures, activists, and journalists are especially
targeted by sexualized forms of online harassment and abuse, undermining
their ability to exercise their human rights and participate in
democracy, governance, and civic life.  Online abuse and harassment,
which aim to preclude women from political decision-making about their
own lives and communities, undermine the functioning of
democracy.  Growing evidence also demonstrates that online
radicalization can be linked to gender-based violence, which, along with
other forms of abuse and harassment, spans the digital and physical
realms.  Online harassment and abuse can result in a range of dire
consequences for victims, from psychological distress and
self-censorship to economic losses, disruptions to education, increased
self-harm, suicide, homicide, and other forms of physical and sexual
violence.  Further, digital technologies are often used in concert with
other forms of abuse and harassment, underscoring the urgency of
addressing the interplay of in-person and online harms.  More research
is needed to fully understand the nature, magnitude, and costs of these
harms and ways to address them in the United States and globally.

Therefore, I am directing the Director of the White House Gender Policy
Council and the Assistant to the President for National Security Affairs
to lead an interagency effort to address online harassment and abuse,
specifically focused on technology-facilitated gender-based violence,
and to develop concrete recommendations to improve prevention, response,
and protection efforts through programs and policies in the United
States and globally.

Sec. 2.  Establishment.  There is established within the Executive
Office of the President the White House Task Force to Address Online
Harassment and Abuse (Task Force).

Sec. 3.  Membership.  (a)  The Director of the White House Gender Policy
Council and the Assistant to the President for National Security
Affairs, or their designees, shall serve as Co-Chairs of the Task
Force.  

(b)  In addition to the Co-Chairs, the Task Force shall consist of the
following members:

(i)     the Secretary of State;

(ii)    the Secretary of Defense; 

(iii)   the Attorney General;

(iv)    the Secretary of Commerce;

(v)     the Secretary of Health and Human Services;

(vi)    the Secretary of Education;

(vii)   the Secretary of Veterans Affairs;

(viii)  the Secretary of Homeland Security;

(ix)    the Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy;

(x)     the Assistant to the President and Director of the Domestic
Policy Council;

(xi)    the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy and Director
of the National Economic Council;

(xii)   the Administrator of the United States Agency for International
Development;

(xiii)  the Counsel to the President; 

(xiv)   the Counsel to the Vice President; and

(xv)    the heads of such other executive departments, agencies, and
offices as the Co-Chairs may, from time to time, designate.

(c)  A member of the Task Force may designate, to perform the Task Force
functions of the member, senior officials within the member’s executive
department, agency, or office who are full-time officers or employees of
the Federal Government.

Sec. 4.  Mission and Function.  (a)  The Task Force shall work across
executive departments, agencies, and offices to assess and address
online harassment and abuse that constitute technology-facilitated
gender-based violence, including by: 

(i)    improving coordination among executive departments, agencies, and
offices to maximize the Federal Government’s effectiveness in preventing
and addressing technology-facilitated gender-based violence in the
United States and globally, including by developing policy solutions to
enhance accountability for those who perpetrate online harms;

(ii)   enhancing and expanding data collection and research across the
Federal Government to measure the costs, prevalence, exposure to, and
impact of technology-facilitated gender-based violence, including by
studying the mental health effects of abuse on social media,
particularly affecting adolescents; 

(iii)  increasing access to survivor-centered services, information, and
support for victims, and increasing training and technical
assistance for Federal, State, local, Tribal, and territorial
governments as well as for global organizations and entities in the
fields of criminal justice, health and mental health services,
education, and victim services;

(iv)   developing programs and policies to address online harassment,
abuse, and disinformation campaigns targeting women and LGBTQI+
individuals who are public and political figures, government and civic
leaders, activists, and journalists in the United States and globally; 

(v)  examining existing Federal laws, regulations, and policies to
evaluate the adequacy of the current legal framework to address
technology-facilitated gender-based violence; and

(vi)    identifying additional opportunities to improve efforts
to prevent and address technology-facilitated gender-based violence in
United States foreign policy and foreign assistance, including through
the Global Partnership for Action on Gender-Based Online Harassment and
Abuse.

(b)  Consistent with the objectives of this memorandum and applicable
law, the Task Force may consult with and gather relevant information
from external stakeholders, including Federal, State, local, Tribal, and
territorial government officials, as well as victim advocates,
survivors, law enforcement personnel, researchers and academics, civil
and human rights groups, philanthropic leaders, technology experts,
legal and international policy experts, industry stakeholders, and other
entities and persons the Task Force identifies that will assist the Task
Force in accomplishing the objectives of this memorandum.

Sec. 5.  Reporting on the Work and Recommendations of the Task
Force.  (a)  Within 180 days of the date of this memorandum, the
Co-Chairs of the Task Force shall submit to the President a blueprint
(Initial Blueprint) outlining a whole-of-government approach to
preventing and addressing technology-facilitated gender-based violence,
including concrete actions that executive departments, agencies, and
offices have committed to take to implement the Task Force’s
recommendations.  The Initial Blueprint shall include a synopsis of key
lessons from stakeholder consultations and preliminary recommendations
for advancing strategies to improve efforts to prevent and address
technology-facilitated gender-based violence.  Following submission of
the Initial Blueprint to the President, the Co-Chairs of the Task Force
shall make an executive summary of the Initial Blueprint publicly
available.

(b)  Within 1 year of the date that the Initial Blueprint is submitted
to the President, the Co-Chairs of the Task Force shall submit to the
President and make publicly available an update and report (1-Year
Report) with additional recommendations and actions that executive
departments, agencies, and offices can take to advance how Federal,
State, local, Tribal, and territorial governments; service providers;
international organizations; technology platforms; schools; and other
public and private entities can improve efforts to prevent and address
technology-facilitated gender-based violence.

(c)  Prior to issuing its Initial Blueprint and 1-Year Report, the
Co-Chairs of the Task Force shall consolidate any input received
and submit periodic recommendations to the President on policies,
regulatory actions, and legislation on technology sector accountability
to address systemic harms to people affected by online harassment and
abuse.

(d)  Following the submission of the 1-Year Report to the President, the
Co-Chairs of the Task Force shall, on an annual basis, submit a
follow-up report to the President on implementation of this memorandum.

Sec. 6.  Definition.  For the purposes of this memorandum, the term
“technology-facilitated gender-based violence” shall refer to any form
of gender-based violence, including harassment and abuse, which takes
place through, or is aided by, the use of digital technologies and
devices.

Sec. 7.  General Provisions.  (a)  Nothing in this memorandum shall be
construed to impair or otherwise affect:

(i)   the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency,
or the head thereof; or

(ii)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b)  This memorandum shall not apply to independent regulatory agencies
as described in section 3502(5) of title 44, United States
Code.  Independent regulatory agencies are nevertheless strongly
encouraged to participate in the work of the Task Force.

(c)  This memorandum shall be implemented consistent with applicable law
and subject to the availability of appropriations.

(d)  This memorandum is not intended to, and does not, create any right
or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity
by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

(e)  The Attorney General is authorized and directed to publish this
memorandum in the *Federal Register*.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
