---
date: '2022-06-15'
modified_time: 2022-06-15 17:23:17-04:00
published_time: 2022-06-15 17:23:16-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/06/15/executive-order-on-advancing-equality-for-lesbian-gay-bisexual-transgender-queer-and-intersex-individuals/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "Executive Order on Advancing Equality for Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender,\
  \ Queer, and Intersex\_Individuals"
---
 
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1.  Policy.  Our Nation has made great strides in fulfilling the
fundamental promises of freedom and equality for lesbian, gay, bisexual,
transgender, queer, and intersex (LGBTQI+) Americans, owing to the
leadership of generations of LGBTQI+ individuals.  In spite of this
historic progress, LGBTQI+ individuals and families still face systemic
discrimination and barriers to full participation in our Nation’s
economic and civic life.  These disparities and barriers can be the
greatest for transgender people and LGBTQI+ people of color.  Today,
unrelenting political and legislative attacks at the State level — on
LGBTQI+ children and families in particular — threaten the civil rights
gains of the last half century and put LGBTQI+ people at risk.  These
attacks defy our American values of liberty and dignity, corrode our
democracy, and threaten basic personal safety.  They echo the
criminalization that LGBTQI+ people continue to face in some
70 countries around the world.  The Federal Government must defend the
rights and safety of LGBTQI+ individuals.

It is therefore the policy of my Administration to combat unlawful
discrimination and eliminate disparities that harm LGBTQI+ individuals
and their families, defend their rights and safety, and pursue a
comprehensive approach to delivering the full promise of equality for
LGBTQI+ individuals, consistent with Executive Order 13988 of January
20, 2021 (Preventing and Combating Discrimination on the Basis of Gender
Identity or Sexual Orientation).

The Federal Government must take action to address the significant
disparities that LGBTQI+ youth face in the foster care system, the
misuse of State and local child welfare agencies to target LGBTQI+ youth
and families, and the mental health needs of LGBTQI+ youth.  My
Administration must safeguard LGBTQI+ youth from dangerous practices
like so-called “conversion therapy” — efforts to suppress or change an
individual’s sexual orientation, gender identity, or gender expression —
a discredited practice that research indicates can cause significant
harm, including higher rates of suicide-related thoughts and behaviors
by LGBTQI+ youth.  The Federal Government must strengthen the supports
for LGBTQI+ students in our Nation’s schools and other education and
training programs.  It must also address the discrimination and barriers
that LGBTQI+ individuals and families face by expanding access to
comprehensive health care, including reproductive health; protecting the
rights of LGBTQI+ older adults; and preventing and addressing LGBTQI+
homelessness and housing instability.  Through these actions, the
Federal Government will help ensure that every person — regardless of
who they are or whom they love — has the opportunity to live freely and
with dignity.  
  

<u>Se</u><u>c</u>. 2.  Addressing Harmful and Discriminatory Legislative
Attacks on LGBTQI+ Children, Youth, and Families.  (a)  The Secretary of
Health and Human Services (HHS) shall, as appropriate and consistent
with applicable law, use the Department of HHS’s authorities to protect
LGBTQI+ individuals’ access to medically necessary care from harmful
State and local laws and practices, and shall promote the adoption of
promising policies and practices to support health equity, including in
the area of mental health care, for LGBTQI+ youth and adults.  Within
200 days of the date of this order, the Secretary of HHS shall develop
and release sample policies for States to safeguard and expand access to
health care for LGBTQI+ individuals and their families, including mental
health services.  
  

(b)  The Secretary of Education shall, as appropriate and consistent
with applicable law, use the Department of Education’s authorities to
support LGBTQI+ students, their families, educators, and other school
personnel targeted by harmful State and local laws and practices, and
shall promote the adoption of promising policies and practices to
support the safety, well-being, and rights of LGBTQI+ students.  Within
200 days of the date of this order, the Secretary of Education shall
develop and release sample policies for supporting LGBTQI+ students’
well-being and academic success in schools and educational
institutions.  
  

Sec. 3.  Addressing Exposure to So-Called Conversion Therapy.  
  
  (a)  The Secretary of HHS shall establish an initiative to reduce the
risk of youth exposure to so-called conversion therapy.  As part of that
initiative, the Secretary of HHS shall, as appropriate and consistent
with applicable law:

(i)    consider whether to issue guidance clarifying for HHS programs
and services agencies that so-called conversion therapy does not meet
criteria for use in federally funded health and human services programs;

(ii)   increase public awareness of the harms and risks associated with
so-called conversion therapy for LGBTQI+ youth and their families;    
  

(iii)  increase the availability of technical assistance and training to
health care and social service providers on evidence-informed promising
practices for supporting the health, including mental health, of LGBTQI+
youth, and on the dangers of so-called conversion therapy; and

(iv)   seek funding opportunities for providers of evidence-based
trauma-informed services to better support survivors of so-called
conversion therapy.  

(b)  The Federal Trade Commission is encouraged to consider whether
so-called conversion therapy constitutes an unfair or deceptive act or
practice, and to issue such consumer warnings or notices as may be
appropriate.

(c)  To address so-called conversion therapy around the world, within
180 days of the date of this order, the Secretary of State, in
collaboration with the Secretary of the Treasury, the Secretary of HHS,
and the Administrator of the United States Agency for International
Development, shall develop an action plan to promote an end to its use
around the world.  In developing the action plan, the Secretary of State
shall consider the use of United States foreign assistance programs and
the United States voice and vote in multilateral development banks and
international development institutions of which the United States is a
shareholder or donor to take appropriate steps to prevent the use of
so-called conversion therapy, as well as to help ensure that United
States foreign assistance programs do not use foreign assistance funds
for so-called conversion therapy.  To further critical data collection,
the Secretary of State shall instruct all United States Embassies and
Missions worldwide to submit additional information on the practice and
incidence of so-called conversion therapy as part of the Country Reports
on Human Rights Practices.

Sec. 4.  Promoting Family Counseling and Support of LGBTQI+ Youth as a
Public Health Priority of the United States.  (a)  “Family counseling
and support programs” are defined for the purposes of this order as
voluntary programs in which families and service providers may elect to
participate that seek to prevent or reduce behaviors associated with
family rejection of LGBTQI+ youth by providing developmentally
appropriate support, counseling, or information to parents, families,
caregivers, child welfare and school personnel, or health care
professionals on how to support an LGBTQI+ youth’s safety and
well-being.

(b)  The Secretary of HHS shall seek to expand the availability of
family counseling and support programs in federally funded health, human
services, and child welfare programs by:

(i)    considering whether to issue guidance regarding the extent to
which Federal funding under Title IV-B and IV-E of the Social Security
Act, 42 U.S.C. Ch. 7, may be used to provide family counseling and
support programs;

(ii)   considering funding opportunities for programs that implement
family counseling and support models;

(iii)  considering opportunities through the Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention (CDC) and the National Institutes of Health to increase
Federal research into the impacts of family rejection and family support
on the mental health and long-term well-being of LGBTQI+ individuals;
and

(iv)   ensuring that HHS data, investments, resources, and partnerships
related to the CDC Adverse Childhood Experiences program address the
disparities faced by LGBTQI+ children and youth.

Sec. 5.  Addressing Discrimination and Barriers Faced by LGBTQI+
Children, Youth, Parents, Caretakers, and Families in the Child Welfare
System and Juvenile Justice Systems.  (a)  The Secretary of HHS shall
consider how to use the Department’s authorities to strengthen
non-discrimination protections on the basis of sex, including sexual
orientation, gender identity, and sex characteristics, in its programs
and services, consistent with Executive Order 13988 and applicable legal
requirements.

(b)  The Secretary of HHS shall direct the Assistant Secretary for
Family Support to establish an initiative to partner with State child
welfare agencies to help address and eliminate disparities in the child
welfare system experienced by LGBTQI+ children, parents, and caregivers,
including:  the over-representation of LGBTQI+ youth in the child
welfare system, including over-representation in congregate placements;
disproportionately high rates of abuse, and placements in unsupportive
or hostile environments faced by LGBTQI+ youth in foster care;
disproportionately high rates of homelessness faced by LGBTQI+ youth who
exit foster care; and discrimination faced by LGBTQI+ parents, kin, and
foster and adoptive families.  The initiative, as appropriate and
consistent with applicable law, shall also take actions to:

(i)    seek funding opportunities for programs and services that improve
outcomes for LGBTQI+ children in the child welfare system;

(ii)   provide increased training and technical assistance to State
child welfare agencies and child welfare personnel on promising
practices to support LGBTQI+ youth in foster care and LGBTQI+ parents
and caregivers;

(iii)  develop sample policies for supporting LGBTQI+ children, parents,
and caregivers in the child welfare system;

(iv)   promote equity and inclusion for LGBTQI+ foster and adoptive
parents in their interactions with the child welfare system;

(v)    evaluate the rate of child removals from LGBTQI+ families of
origin, in particular families that include LGBTQI+ women of color, and
develop proposals to address any disproportionate rates of child
removals faced by such families;

(vi)   assess and improve the responsible collection and use of data on
sexual orientation and gender identity in the child welfare system to
measure and address inequities faced by LGBTQI+ children, parents, and
caregivers, while safeguarding the privacy, safety, and civil rights of
LGBTQI+ youth; and

(vii)  advance policies that help to prevent the placement of LGBTQI+
youth in foster and congregate care environments that will be hostile to
their gender identity or sexual orientation.

\(c\)  The Attorney General shall establish a clearinghouse within the
Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention to provide
effective training, technical assistance, and other resources for
jurisdictions seeking to better serve LGBTQI+ youth using a
continuum-of-care framework.  The clearinghouse shall include juvenile
justice and delinquency prevention programs addressing the needs,
including mental health needs, of LGBTQI+ youth.

Sec. 6.  Reviewing Eligibility Standards for Federal Benefits and
Programs.  (a)  Within 180 days of the date of this order, the Secretary
of HHS shall conduct a study on the impact that current Federal
statutory and regulatory eligibility standards have on the ability of
LGBTQI+ and other households as determined by the Secretary to access
Federal benefits and programs for families, and shall produce a public
report with findings and recommendations that could increase LGBTQI+ and
such other households’ participation in and eligibility for Federal
benefits and programs for families.  
  

(b)  Within 100 days of the release of the recommendations required by
subsection (a) of this section, the Director of the Office of Management
and Budget (OMB) shall coordinate with executive departments and
agencies (agencies) that administer programs that establish eligibility
standards for participation by families to complete a review of
agencies’ current eligibility standards for families.  Such agencies
shall seek opportunities, consistent with applicable law, to adopt more
inclusive eligibility standards in line with the recommendations in the
report produced pursuant to subsection (a) of this section.

Sec. 7.  Safeguarding Access to Health Care and Other Health Supports
for LGBTQI+ Individuals. ** **The Secretary of HHS shall establish an
initiative to address the health disparities facing LGBTQI+ youth and
adults, take steps to prevent LGBTQI+ suicide, and address the barriers
and exclusionary policies that LGBTQI+ individuals and families face in
accessing quality, affordable, comprehensive health care, including
mental health care, reproductive health care, and HIV prevention and
treatment.  As part of that initiative, the Secretary of HHS shall, as
appropriate and consistent with applicable law:

(a)  seek funding opportunities related to health, including mental
health, for LGBTQI+ individuals, especially youth, including resources
for the Nation’s suicide prevention and crisis support services to
support LGBTQI+ individuals;

(b)  promote expanded access to comprehensive health care for LGBTQI+
individuals, including by working with States on expanding access to
gender-affirming care;

(c)  issue guidance through the Substance Abuse and Mental Health
Services Administration and the Office of the Assistant Secretary for
Health, within 100 days of the date of this order, on providing
evidence-informed mental health care and substance use treatment and
support services for LGBTQI+ youth; and

(d)  develop and issue a report, within 1 year of the date of this
order, and after consultation with medical experts, medical
associations, and individuals with lived expertise, on promising
practices for advancing health equity for intersex individuals.

Sec. 8.  Supporting LGBTQI+ Students in our Nation’s Schools and
Educational Institutions.  The Secretary of Education shall establish a
Working Group on LGBTQI+ Students and Families, which shall lead an
initiative to address discrimination against LGBTQI+ students and
strengthen supports for LGBTQI+ students and families.  Through that
Working Group, the Secretary of Education shall, as appropriate and
consistent with applicable law:

(a)  review, revise, develop, and promote guidance, technical
assistance, training, promising practices, and sample policies for
States, school districts, and other educational institutions to promote
safe and inclusive learning environments in which all LGBTQI+ students
thrive and to address bullying of LGBTQI+ students;

(b)  identify promising practices for helping to ensure that
school-based health services and supports, especially mental health
services, are accessible to and supportive of LGBTQI+ students;

(c)  seek funding opportunities for grantees and programs that will
improve educational and health outcomes, especially mental health
outcomes, for LGBTQI+ students and other underserved students; and

(d)  seek to strengthen supportive services for LGBTQI+ students and
families experiencing homelessness, including those provided by the
National Center for Homeless Education.   

Sec. 9.  Preventing and Ending LGBTQI+ Homelessness and Housing
Instability.  (a)  The Secretary of Housing and Urban Development (HUD)
shall establish a Working Group on LGBTQI+ Homelessness and Housing
Equity, which shall lead an initiative that aims to prevent and address
homelessness and housing instability among LGBTQI+ individuals,
including youth, and households.  As part of that initiative, the
Secretary of HUD shall, as appropriate and consistent with applicable
law:

(i)    identify and address barriers to housing faced by LGBTQI+
individuals, including youth, and families that place them at high risk
of housing instability and homelessness;

(ii)   provide guidance and technical assistance to HUD contractors,
grantees, and programs on effectively and respectfully serving LGBTQI+
individuals, including youth, and families;

(iii)  develop and provide guidance, sample policies, technical
assistance, and training to Continuums of Care, established pursuant to
HUD’s Continuum of Care Program; homeless service providers; and housing
providers to improve services and outcomes for LGBTQI+ individuals,
including youth, and families who are experiencing or are at risk of
homelessness, and to ensure compliance with the Fair Housing Act, 42
U.S.C. 3601 *et seq*., and HUD’s 2012 and 2016 Equal Access Rules; and

(iv)   seek funding opportunities, including through the Youth
Homelessness Demonstration Program, for culturally appropriate services
that address barriers to housing for LGBTQI+ individuals, including
youth, and families, and the high rates of LGBTQI+ youth homelessness.

(b)  The Secretary of HHS, through the Assistant Secretary for Family
Support, shall, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law:

(i)   use agency guidance, training, and technical assistance to
implement non-discrimination protections on the basis of sexual
orientation and gender identity in programs established pursuant to the
Runaway and Homeless Youth Act (Public Law 110-378), and ensure that
such programs address LGBTQI+ youth homelessness; and

(ii)  coordinate with youth advisory boards funded through the Runaway
and Homeless Youth Training and Technical Assistance Center and the
National Runaway Safeline to seek input from LGBTQI+ youth who have
experienced homelessness on improving federally funded services and
programs.

Sec. 10.  Strengthening Supports for LGBTQI+ Older Adults. The Secretary
of HHS shall address discrimination, social isolation, and health
disparities faced by LGBTQI+ older adults, including by:

(a)  developing and publishing guidance on non-discrimination
protections on the basis of sex, including sexual orientation, gender
identity, and sex characteristics, and other rights of LGBTQI+ older
adults in long-term care settings;

\(b\)  developing and publishing a document parallel to the guidance
required by subsection (a) of this section in plain language, titled
“Bill of Rights for LGBTQI+ Older Adults,” to support LGBTQI+ older
adults and providers in understanding the rights of LGBTQI+ older adults
in long-term care settings;

(c)  considering whether to issue a notice of proposed rulemaking to
clarify that LGBTQI+ individuals are included in the definition of
“greatest social need” for purposes of targeting outreach, service
provision, and funding under the Older Americans Act, 42 U.S.C. 3001 *et
seq*.; and

(d)  considering ways to improve and increase appropriate data
collection on sexual orientation and gender identity in surveys on older
adults, including by providing technical assistance to States on the
collection of such data.

Sec. 11.  Promoting Inclusive and Responsible Federal Data Collection
Practices.  (a)  Advancing equity and full inclusion for LGBTQI+
individuals requires that the Federal Government use evidence and data
to measure and address the disparities that LGBTQI+ individuals,
families, and households face, while safeguarding privacy, security, and
civil rights.  

(b)  To advance the responsible and effective collection and use of data
on sexual orientation, gender identity, and sex characteristics (SOGI
data), the Co-Chairs of the Interagency Working Group on Equitable Data
established in Executive Order 13985 of January 20, 2021 (Advancing
Racial Equity and Support for Underserved Communities Through the
Federal Government), shall, within 30 days of the date of this order,
establish a subcommittee on SOGI data to coordinate with agencies on
strengthening the Federal Government’s collection of SOGI data to
advance equity for LGBTQI+ individuals.  Within 120 days of the date of
this order, the subcommittee shall, in coordination with the Director of
OMB, develop and release a Federal Evidence Agenda on LGBTQI+ Equity,
which shall:

(i)    describe disparities faced by LGBTQI+ individuals that could be
better understood through Federal statistics and data collection;

(ii)   identify, in coordination with agency Statistical Officials,
Chief Science Officers, Chief Data Officers, and Evaluation Officers,
Federal data collections where improved SOGI data collection may be
important for advancing the Federal Government’s ability to measure
disparities facing LGBTQI+ individuals; and

(iii)  identify practices for all agencies engaging in SOGI data
collection to follow in order to safeguard privacy, security, and civil
rights, including with regard to appropriate and robust practices of
consent for the collection of this data and restrictions on its use or
transfer.

(c)  Within 200 days of the date of this order, the head of each agency
that conducts relevant programs or statistical surveys related to the
Federal Evidence Agenda on LGBTQI+ Equity shall submit to the Co-Chairs
of the Interagency Working Group on Equitable Data a SOGI Data Action
Plan, which shall detail how the agency plans to use SOGI data to
advance equity for LGBTQI+ individuals and shall identify how the agency
plans to implement the recommendations in the Federal Evidence Agenda on
LGBTQI+ Equity.

(d)  To support implementation of agency SOGI Data Action Plans, the
head of each agency shall include in the agency’s annual budget
submission to the Director of OMB a request for any necessary funding
increases to support improved SOGI data practices.

(e)  Within 180 days of the date of this order, to support agencies in
appropriately collecting and using SOGI data, the Director of OMB,
through the Chief Statistician of the United States, shall publish a
report with recommendations for agencies on the best practices for the
collection of SOGI data on Federal statistical surveys, including
strategies to preserve data privacy and safety.

(f)  On an annual basis, the Director of OMB, through the Chief
Statistician of the United States, shall evaluate the efficacy of SOGI
data practices across agencies, and shall consider whether to update
reports, guidance, or directives based upon the latest evidence and
research as needed.  
  

Sec. 12.  Reporting.  Within 1 year of the date of this order:

(a)  The Attorney General shall submit a report to the President through
the Assistant to the President for Domestic Policy (APDP) detailing
progress in implementing section 5 of this order;  
  

(b)  The Secretary of HHS shall submit a report to the President through
the APDP detailing progress in implementing sections 2 through 7 and 9
through 11 of this order;  
  

(c)  The Secretary of Education shall submit a report to the President
through the APDP detailing progress in implementing sections 2, 8, and
11 of this order;  
  

(d)  The Secretary of HUD shall submit a report to the President through
the APDP detailing progress in implementing sections 9 and 11 of this
order;  
  

\(e\)  The Secretary of State shall submit a report to the President
through the APDP detailing progress in implementing section 3 of this
order;  
  

\(f\)  The Director of OMB shall submit a report to the President
through the APDP detailing progress in implementing sections 6 and 11 of
this order; and

\(g\)  The Director of OMB, through the Chief Statistician of the United
States, shall submit a report to the President through the APDP
detailing progress in implementing section 11 of this order.

Sec. 13.  General Provisions.  (a)  Nothing in this order shall be
construed to impair or otherwise affect:  

\(i\)   the authority granted by law to an executive department or
agency, or the head thereof; or

\(ii\)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative
proposals.  

\(b\)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law
and subject to the availability of appropriations.

\(c\)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or
benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by
any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.

THE WHITE HOUSE,

    June 15, 2022.
