---
date: '2022-06-26'
modified_time: 2022-06-26 09:40:26-04:00
published_time: 2022-06-26 11:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/06/26/memorandum-on-the-partnership-for-global-infrastructure-and-investment/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "Memorandum on the Partnership for Global Infrastructure and\_Investment"
---
 
MEMORANDUM FOR THE HEADS OF EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENTS AND AGENCIES

SUBJECT:    Partnership for Global Infrastructure and Investment 

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, and to establish my
Administration’s policy and approach to executing the Partnership for
Global Infrastructure and Investment (PGII), it is hereby ordered as
follows:

Section 1.  Policy.  Infrastructure is critical to driving a society’s
productivity and prosperity.  When done well, infrastructure connects
workers to good jobs; allows businesses to grow and thrive; facilitates
the delivery of vital services; creates opportunities for all segments
of society, including underserved communities; moves goods to markets;
enables rapid information-sharing and communication; protects societies
from the effects of climate change and public health crises or other
emergencies; and supports global connection among nations.
 Infrastructure comes in many forms and sizes, from the large-scale
energy systems that power inclusive economies, to the local healthcare
networks that contribute to global health security, to the range of
innovative infrastructure developed through investments from financial
institutions and small- and medium-sized enterprises.  My Administration
is making an urgent, once-in-a-generation investment in domestic
infrastructure that will create jobs, help address the climate crisis,
and help the Nation recover from the coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19)
pandemic –– and the same focus is needed around the globe. 

Internationally, infrastructure has long been underfunded, with over $40
trillion in estimated need in the developing world –– a need that will
only increase with the climate crisis and population growth.  Many low-
and middle-income countries lack adequate access to high-quality
financing that meets their long-term infrastructure investment needs.
 Too often, financing options lack transparency, fuel corruption and
poor governance, and create unsustainable debt burdens, often leading to
projects that exploit, rather than empower, workers; exacerbate
challenges faced by vulnerable populations, such as forced displacement;
degrade natural resources and the environment; threaten economic
stability; undermine gender equality and human rights; and put
insufficient focus on cybersecurity best practices — a failure that can
contribute to vulnerable information and communications technology
networks.

The underinvestment in infrastructure is not just financial, but also
technical.  Delivering high-quality infrastructure in low- and
middle-income countries must include helping to establish and improve
the necessary institutional and policy frameworks, regulatory
environment, and human capacity to ensure the sustainable delivery of
services to communities; defining strong engineering, environmental,
social, governance, and labor standards; and structuring projects to
attract private investment.  Through the PGII, the United States and
like-minded partners will emphasize high-standards and quality
investments in resilient infrastructure that will drive job creation,
safeguard against corruption, guarantee respect for workers’
organizations and collective bargaining as allowed by national law or
similar mechanisms, support inclusive economic recovery, address risks
of environmental degradation, promote robust cybersecurity, promote
skills transfer, and protect American economic prosperity and national
security.  The PGII will also advance values-driven infrastructure
development that is carried out in a transparent and sustainable manner
— financially, environmentally, and socially — to lead to better
outcomes for recipient countries and communities.

There is bipartisan support for international infrastructure
development.  The Congress passed the Better Utilization of Investments
Leading to Development Act of 2018 (BUILD Act) (Division F of Public Law
115-254, 132 Stat. 3485) with bipartisan support to mobilize
private-sector dollars to support economic development in low- and
middle income countries, which can include support for projects to build
infrastructure, creating first-time access to electricity, starting
businesses, and creating jobs.  The BUILD Act institutionalized the
United States’ commitment to private sector–funded development by
establishing the United States International Development Finance
Corporation (DFC), authorized a higher exposure cap for the DFC than the
exposure cap for the former Overseas Private Investment Corporation, and
provided new tools to engage entrepreneurs and investors to help low-
and middle-income countries access private resources to generate
economic growth.  These investments help ensure that our partners are
stronger, create opportunities for people around the world, and reduce
the need for future United States foreign aid.

In a similar spirit, in 2018 the Congress passed the AGOA and MCA
Modernization Act (Public Law 115-167, 132 Stat. 1276), authorizing the
Millennium Challenge Corporation (MCC) to make concurrent regional
compacts under specified conditions, which can include investments in
regional infrastructure.  This new authority builds on the MCC’s record
of delivering complex infrastructure projects that result in the
delivery of vital services for communities and sustainable, inclusive
economic growth.  In addition, recognizing the need for access to
high-quality, fair, and transparent financing for United States
exporters and foreign buyers, the Congress also reauthorized the
Export-Import Bank of the United States (EXIM) for 7 years in 2019.  The
EXIM’s reauthorization legislation also took steps to advance American
leadership in transformational exports, which can include support for
goods and services necessary for open, secure, reliable, and
interoperable information and communications technology.

The United States and its partners have a long history of providing
high-quality financing and technical support for infrastructure projects
throughout the world.  However, the lack of a comprehensive approach for
coordinating infrastructure investments with like-minded partners often
leads to inefficiencies and missed opportunities for coordinated
investments to deliver at scale.  Greater flexibility, speed, and
resources, combined with expanded internal coordination within the
United States Government, will provide opportunities for the United
States Government and United States companies to better meet the
infrastructure needs of low- and middle-income countries around the
world.  At the same time, greater coordination with G7 and other
like-minded partners will increase efficiency and catalyze new financing
to advance a shared vision of values driven, high-quality, and
sustainable infrastructure around the world.

Four key priorities relating to infrastructure will be especially
critical for robust development in the coming decades:  climate and
energy security, digital connectivity, health and health security, and
gender equality and equity.  Economic prosperity and competitiveness
will largely be driven by how well countries harness their digital and
technology sectors and transition to clean energy to provide
environmentally sustainable and broadly shared, inclusive growth for
their people.  Countries not only will need new and retrofitted
infrastructure, secure clean energy supply chains, and secure access to
critical minerals and metals to facilitate energy access and transitions
to clean energy, but also will need significant investments in
infrastructure to make communities more resilient to diverse threats,
from pandemics to malicious cyber actors, to the increasing effects of
climate change.  Further, the COVID-19 pandemic has highlighted the
unequal infrastructure needs in the developing world and has
disproportionately affected low- and middle-income countries and
regions, particularly with respect to the health sector.  In the
developing world, the pandemic has also set back the economic
participation of women and members of underserved communities and has
reversed decades of progress toward ending poverty, with global extreme
poverty rising for the first time in more than 20 years due to COVID 19.
 The pandemic has highlighted the need for expanded investments in and
high-quality financing for strengthened health systems to both fight the
current pandemic and prepare for future health crises.

It is therefore the policy of the United States to catalyze
international infrastructure financing and development through the PGII,
which is designed to offer low- and middle-income countries a
comprehensive, transparent, values-driven financing choice for
infrastructure development to advance climate and energy security,
digital connectivity, health and health security, and gender equality
and equity priorities.  The PGII will mobilize public and private
resources to meet key infrastructure needs, while enhancing American
competitiveness in international infrastructure development and creating
good jobs at home and abroad.  In this effort, the United States is
working in close partnership with G7 and other like-minded partners
toward infrastructure financing and infrastructure development that are
sustainable, clean, resilient, inclusive, and transparent, and that
adhere to high standards.

Sec. 2.  Approach.  In order to meet the enormous infrastructure needs
in the developing world, a new approach to international infrastructure
development that emphasizes high-standards investment is needed.  To
meet this challenge and seize this opportunity, the PGII should:

        (a)  partner with low- and middle-income countries to finance
infrastructure across key sectors that advances the four key priorities
critical to sustainable, inclusive growth:  climate and energy security,
digital connectivity, health and health security, and gender equality
and equity;

        (b)  promote the execution of projects in a timely fashion in
consultation and partnership with host countries and local stakeholders
to meet their priority needs and opportunities, balancing both short-
and longer-term priorities;

        (c)  pursue the dual goals of advancing prosperity and
surmounting global challenges, including the climate crisis, through the
development of clean, climate-resilient infrastructure that drives job
creation, accelerates clean energy innovation, and supports inclusive
economic recovery; 

        (d)  support the policy and institutional reforms that are key
to creating the conditions and capacity for sound projects and lasting
results and to attracting private financing;

        (e)  boost the competitiveness of the United States by
supporting businesses, including small- and medium-sized enterprises in
overseas infrastructure and technology development, thereby creating
jobs and economic growth here at home;

        (f)  advance transparency, accountability, and performance
metrics to allow assessment of whether investments and projects deliver
results and are responsive to country needs, are financially sound, and
meet a high standard;

        (g)  mobilize private capital from both the United States
private sector and the private sector in partner countries; 

        (h)  build upon relationships with international financial
institutions, including the multilateral development banks (MDBs), to
mobilize capital;

        (i)  focus on projects that can attract complementary
private-sector financing and catalyze additional market activity to
multiply the positive impact on economies and communities;   
        (j)  coordinate sources of bilateral and multilateral
development finance to maximize the ability to meet infrastructure needs
and facilitate the implementation of high standards for infrastructure
investment;

        (k)  uphold high standards for infrastructure investments and
procurement, which safeguard against bribery and other forms of
corruption, better address climate risks and risks of environmental
degradation, promote skills transfer, generate good jobs, mitigate risks
to vulnerable populations, and promote long-term economic and social
benefits for economies and communities; and

        (l)  align G7 and other like-minded partners to coordinate our
respective approaches, investment criteria, expertise, and resources on
infrastructure to advance a common vision and better meet the needs of
low- and middle-income countries and regions.

Sec. 3.  Execution.  (a)  A whole-of-government approach is necessary to
meet the challenge of international infrastructure development, with
executive departments and agencies (agencies) working together with like
minded partners.  The Special Presidential Coordinator for the
Partnership for Global Infrastructure and Investment shall be
responsible for overseeing the whole-of-government execution of these
efforts and serving as the central node for United States coordination
among the G7, as well as with other like-minded partners, the private
sector, and other external actors.  While specific lines of effort and
initiatives may each have agency leads, such as on sourcing critical
minerals or identifying trusted 5G and 6G vendors, whole-of-government
policies should be addressed through the Coordinator.

        (b)  Agencies shall, consistent with applicable law and
available appropriations, prioritize support for the PGII and make
strategic investments across the PGII’s key priorities of climate and
energy security, digital connectivity, health and health security, and
gender equality and equity.

        (c)  The PGII shall be executed through the following key
implementation efforts:

                (i)     The Assistant to the President for National
Security Affairs (APNSA), through the interagency process identified in
National Security Memorandum 2 of February 4, 2021 (Renewing the
National Security Council System) (NSM-2), shall submit a report to the
President within 180 days of the date of this memorandum.  The report
shall include recommendations on United States Government actions to
boost the competitiveness of the United States in international
infrastructure development, and to improve coordination on international
infrastructure development across relevant agencies.

                (ii)    The Secretary of State, the Secretary of the
Treasury, the Secretary of the Interior, the Secretary of Commerce, the
Secretary of Labor, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, the
Secretary of Transportation, the Secretary of Energy, the Administrator
of the United States Agency for International Development (USAID), and
the heads of other relevant agencies shall prioritize programming
consistent with the policy and approach described in sections 1 and 2 of
this memorandum to support timely delivery of international
infrastructure development, particularly across the PGII’s four key
priorities, as appropriate and consistent with their respective
authorities.  The Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of MCC, the CEO of DFC,
the President of EXIM, the Director of the Trade and Development Agency
(TDA), and the heads of other relevant independent agencies are
encouraged to follow this same line of effort, as appropriate and
consistent with their respective authorities.

                (iii)   The Secretary of State shall direct Chiefs of
Mission to use all appropriate tools and to develop coordination
mechanisms –– including through Embassy Deal Teams –– to address host
country strategic infrastructure needs within the PGII’s four key
priority areas.

                (iv)    The Secretary of State and the Secretary of
Commerce, in consultation with the Secretary of Health and Human
Services, the Secretary of Energy, the Administrator of USAID, the CEO
of MCC, the CEO of DFC, the President of EXIM, and the Special
Presidential Coordinator, shall develop a strategy for using Embassy
Deal Teams to identify potential priority infrastructure projects for
the PGII and refer promising opportunities to relevant agencies for
consideration, based on each agency’s strengths and authorities.

                (v)     The Secretary of State, through the Special
Presidential Coordinator and in consultation with the heads of other
relevant agencies, shall coordinate diplomatic engagements to expand the
PGII beyond the G7 to bring greater resources and opportunities for
partnership.

                (vi)    The Secretary of State, through the Special
Presidential Coordinator and in consultation with the Secretary of the
Treasury, the Secretary of Commerce, the Secretary of Labor, the
Secretary of Health and Human Services, the Secretary of Transportation,
the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, the
Administrator of USAID, the CEO of MCC, and the CEO of DFC, shall lead
interagency efforts regarding international coordination on
infrastructure development standards and metrics, including on labor and
environment, and certification mechanisms, including through the Blue
Dot Network.

                (vii)   The Secretary of Commerce, in consultation with
the Administrator of the Small Business Administration, the President of
EXIM, the Director of TDA, and the Special Presidential Coordinator,
shall develop and implement a strategy to boost the competitiveness of
the United States and promote the use of United States equipment and
services in international infrastructure development.

                (viii)  The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation
with the Secretary of State, the CEO of MCC, the CEO of DFC, and the
Special Presidential Coordinator, shall develop and implement a strategy
to catalyze private-sector investment and support low- and middle income
countries across the PGII’s four key priority areas.

                (ix)    The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation
with the Secretary of State, the Secretary of Commerce, the Secretary of
Health and Human Services, the Administrator of USAID, and the Special
Presidential Coordinator shall develop a plan for engaging the MDBs to
foster high-quality infrastructure investment and increased
private-capital mobilization for low- and middle-income countries, and
shall coordinate with like-minded partners in the plan’s execution.  The
CEO of DFC, in consultation with the Secretary of State, the Secretary
of the Treasury, the Administrator of USAID, and the Special
Presidential Coordinator, is encouraged to develop a plan to enhance
engagement with national and international development finance
institutions to increase private-capital mobilization.

                (x)     The Secretary of Transportation, in consultation
with the heads of other relevant agencies, shall develop and implement a
strategy to promote high-quality, sustainable, and resilient
transportation infrastructure in low- and middle-income countries,
including through the launch of a comprehensive toolkit for national,
subnational, and multilateral partners that emphasizes best practices in
planning, finance, project delivery, safety, and maintenance.

                (xi)    The APNSA, through the interagency process
identified in NSM-2 and in coordination with the Director of the Office
of Management and Budget, shall identify potential legislative and
administrative actions that could improve the ability of United States
economic development and assistance, development finance, and export
credit tools to meet international infrastructure development needs.

                (xii)   The APNSA, through the interagency process
identified in NSM-2, shall lead biannual reviews to monitor the
progress, metrics, and outcomes of the PGII’s investments and projects;
identify strategic opportunities across the PGII’s four key priorities;
and ensure that the execution of the PGII aligns with, and supports,
broader strategic United States national security and economic
objectives and values, including by supporting United States companies
in international infrastructure development.

Sec. 4.  Definition.  For purposes of this memorandum, “agency” means
any authority of the United States that is an “agency” under 44 U.S.C.
3502(1), other than one considered to be an independent regulatory
agency, as defined in 44 U.S.C. 3502(5).  “Agency” also means any
component of the Executive Office of the President.

Sec. 5.  General Provisions.  (a)  Nothing in this memorandum shall be
construed to impair or otherwise affect:

                (i)   the authority granted by law to an executive
department or agency, or the head thereof; or

                (ii)  the functions of the Director of the Office of
Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or
legislative proposals.

        (b)  This memorandum shall be implemented consistent with
applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.

        (c)  This memorandum is not intended to, and does not, create
any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or
in equity by any party against the United States, its departments,
agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other
person.

        (d)  The Secretary of State is authorized and directed to
publish this memorandum in the Federal Register.

                        JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
