---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2022-03-23'
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/03/23/a-proclamation-on-the-death-of-madeleine-korbel-albright/
published_time: 2022-03-23 17:53:57-04:00
title: "A Proclamation on the Death of Madeleine Korbel\_Albright"
---
 
Madeleine Albright was a force.  She defied convention and broke
barriers again and again.  She was an immigrant fleeing persecution.  A
refugee in need of safe haven.  And like so many before her — and after
— she was proudly American.

As the devoted mother of three beloved daughters, she worked tirelessly
raising them while earning her doctorate degree and starting her career
in American diplomacy.  She took her talents first to the Senate as a
staffer for Senator Edmund Muskie followed by the National Security
Council under President Carter.  And then to the United Nations where
she served as United States Ambassador, and ultimately, made history as
our first woman Secretary of State, appointed by President Clinton.  A
scholar, teacher, bestselling author, and later accomplished business
woman, she always believed America was the indispensable Nation, and
inspired the next generation of public servants to follow her lead,
including countless women leaders around the world.  Madeleine was
always a force for goodness, grace, and decency — and for freedom.

As a mark of respect for former Secretary of State Madeleine Korbel
Albright and her life of service to our Nation, I hereby order, by the
authority vested in me as President of the United States by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States of America, that the flag
of the United States shall be flown at half-staff at the White House and
upon all public buildings and grounds, at all military posts and naval
stations, and on all naval vessels of the Federal Government in the
District of Columbia and throughout the United States and its
Territories and possessions until sunset on March 27, 2022.  I also
direct that the flag shall be flown at half-staff for the same length of
time at all United States embassies, legations, consular offices, and
other facilities abroad, including all military facilities and naval
vessels and stations.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-third
day of March, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-two, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
