---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2022-03-09'
modified_time: 2022-03-09 09:41:52-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/03/09/executive-order-on-ensuring-responsible-development-of-digital-assets/
published_time: 2022-03-09 09:41:51-05:00
title: Executive Order on Ensuring Responsible Development of Digital Assets
---
 
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered as follows:  
  
Section 1.  Policy.  Advances in digital and distributed ledger
technology for financial services have led to dramatic growth in markets
for digital assets, with profound implications for the protection of
consumers, investors, and businesses, including data privacy and
security; financial stability and systemic risk; crime; national
security; the ability to exercise human rights; financial inclusion and
equity; and energy demand and climate change.  In November 2021,
non‑state issued digital assets reached a combined market capitalization
of $3 trillion, up from approximately $14 billion in early November
2016.  Monetary authorities globally are also exploring, and in some
cases introducing, central bank digital currencies (CBDCs).   
While many activities involving digital assets are within the scope of
existing domestic laws and regulations, an area where the United States
has been a global leader, growing development and adoption of digital
assets and related innovations, as well as inconsistent controls to
defend against certain key risks, necessitate an evolution and alignment
of the United States Government approach to digital assets.  The United
States has an interest in responsible financial innovation, expanding
access to safe and affordable financial services, and reducing the cost
of domestic and cross-border funds transfers and payments, including
through the continued modernization of public payment systems.  We must
take strong steps to reduce the risks that digital assets could pose to
consumers, investors, and business protections; financial stability and
financial system integrity; combating and preventing crime and illicit
finance; national security; the ability to exercise human rights;
financial inclusion and equity; and climate change and pollution.  
  
Sec. 2.  Objectives.  The principal policy objectives of the United
States with respect to digital assets are as follows:  
           (a)  We must protect consumers, investors, and businesses in
the United States.  The unique and varied features of digital assets can
pose significant financial risks to consumers, investors, and businesses
if appropriate protections are not in place.  In the absence of
sufficient oversight and standards, firms providing digital asset
services may provide inadequate protections for sensitive financial
data, custodial and other arrangements relating to customer assets and
funds, or disclosures of risks associated with investment. 
Cybersecurity and market failures at major digital asset exchanges and
trading platforms have resulted in billions of dollars in losses.  The
United States should ensure that safeguards are in place and promote the
responsible development of digital assets to protect consumers,
investors, and businesses; maintain privacy; and shield against
arbitrary or unlawful surveillance, which can contribute to human rights
abuses.  
           (b)  We must protect United States and global financial
stability and mitigate systemic risk.  Some digital asset trading
platforms and service providers have grown rapidly in size and
complexity and may not be subject to or in compliance with appropriate
regulations or supervision.  Digital asset issuers, exchanges and
trading platforms, and intermediaries whose activities may increase
risks to financial stability, should, as appropriate, be subject to and
in compliance with regulatory and supervisory standards that govern
traditional market infrastructures and financial firms, in line with the
general principle of “same business, same risks, same rules.”  The new
and unique uses and functions that digital assets can facilitate may
create additional economic and financial risks requiring an evolution to
a regulatory approach that adequately addresses those risks.  
           (c)  We must mitigate the illicit finance and national
security risks posed by misuse of digital assets.  Digital assets may
pose significant illicit finance risks, including money laundering,
cybercrime and ransomware, narcotics and human trafficking, and
terrorism and proliferation financing.  Digital assets may also be used
as a tool to circumvent United States and foreign financial sanctions
regimes and other tools and authorities.  Further, while the United
States has been a leader in setting international standards for the
regulation and supervision of digital assets for anti‑money laundering
and countering the financing of terrorism (AML/CFT), poor or nonexistent
implementation of those standards in some jurisdictions abroad can
present significant illicit financing risks for the United States and
global financial systems.  Illicit actors, including the perpetrators of
ransomware incidents and other cybercrime, often launder and cash out of
their illicit proceeds using digital asset service providers in
jurisdictions that have not yet effectively implemented the
international standards set by the inter-governmental Financial Action
Task Force (FATF).  The continued availability of service providers in
jurisdictions where international AML/CFT standards are not effectively
implemented enables financial activity without illicit finance controls.
 Growth in decentralized financial ecosystems, peer-to-peer payment
activity, and obscured blockchain ledgers without controls to mitigate
illicit finance could also present additional market and national
security risks in the future.  The United States must ensure appropriate
controls and accountability for current and future digital assets
systems to promote high standards for transparency, privacy, and
security — including through regulatory, governance, and technological
measures — that counter illicit activities and preserve or enhance the
efficacy of our national security tools.  When digital assets are abused
or used in illicit ways, or undermine national security, it is in the
national interest to take actions to mitigate these illicit finance and
national security risks through regulation, oversight, law enforcement
action, or use of other United States Government authorities.  
           (d)  We must reinforce United States leadership in the global
financial system and in technological and economic competitiveness,
including through the responsible development of payment innovations and
digital assets.  The United States has an interest in ensuring that it
remains at the forefront of responsible development and design of
digital assets and the technology that underpins new forms of payments
and capital flows in the international financial system, particularly in
setting standards that promote:  democratic values; the rule of law;
privacy; the protection of consumers, investors, and businesses; and
interoperability with digital platforms, legacy architecture, and
international payment systems.  The United States derives significant
economic and national security benefits from the central role that the
United States dollar and United States financial institutions and
markets play in the global financial system.  Continued United States
leadership in the global financial system will sustain United States
financial power and promote United States economic interests.  
           (e)  We must promote access to safe and affordable financial
services.  Many Americans are underbanked and the costs of cross-border
money transfers and payments are high.  The United States has a strong
interest in promoting responsible innovation that expands equitable
access to financial services, particularly for those Americans
underserved by the traditional banking system, including by making
investments and domestic and cross-border funds transfers and payments
cheaper, faster, and safer, and by promoting greater and more
cost-efficient access to financial products and services.  The United
States also has an interest in ensuring that the benefits of financial
innovation are enjoyed equitably by all Americans and that any disparate
impacts of financial innovation are mitigated.   
           (f)  We must support technological advances that promote
responsible development and use of digital assets.  The technological
architecture of different digital assets has substantial implications
for privacy, national security, the operational security and resilience
of financial systems, climate change, the ability to exercise human
rights, and other national goals.  The United States has an interest in
ensuring that digital asset technologies and the digital payments
ecosystem are developed, designed, and implemented in a responsible
manner that includes privacy and security in their architecture,
integrates features and controls that defend against illicit
exploitation, and reduces negative climate impacts and environmental
pollution, as may result from some cryptocurrency mining.  
  
Sec. 3.  Coordination.  The Assistant to the President for National
Security Affairs (APNSA) and the Assistant to the President for Economic
Policy (APEP) shall coordinate, through the interagency process
described in National Security Memorandum 2 of February 4, 2021
(Renewing the National Security Council System), the executive branch
actions necessary to implement this order.  The interagency process
shall include, as appropriate:  the Secretary of State, the Secretary of
the Treasury, the Secretary of Defense, the Attorney General, the
Secretary of Commerce, the Secretary of Labor, the Secretary of Energy,
the Secretary of Homeland Security, the Administrator of the
Environmental Protection Agency, the Director of the Office of
Management and Budget, the Director of National Intelligence, the
Director of the Domestic Policy Council, the Chair of the Council of
Economic Advisers, the Director of the Office of Science and Technology
Policy, the Administrator of the Office of Information and Regulatory
Affairs, the Director of the National Science Foundation, and the
Administrator of the United States Agency for International
Development.  Representatives of other executive departments and
agencies (agencies) and other senior officials may be invited to attend
interagency meetings as appropriate, including, with due respect for
their regulatory independence, representatives of the Board of Governors
of the Federal Reserve System, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau
(CFPB), the Federal Trade Commission (FTC), the Securities and Exchange
Commission (SEC), the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC), the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Office of the Comptroller of
the Currency, and other Federal regulatory agencies.  
  
Sec. 4.  Policy and Actions Related to United States Central Bank
Digital Currencies.  (a)  The policy of my Administration on a United
States CBDC is as follows:  
                          (i)    Sovereign money is at the core of a
well-functioning financial system, macroeconomic stabilization policies,
and economic growth.  My Administration places the highest urgency on
research and development efforts into the potential design and
deployment options of a United States CBDC.  These efforts should
include assessments of possible benefits and risks for consumers,
investors, and businesses; financial stability and systemic risk;
payment systems; national security; the ability to exercise human
rights; financial inclusion and equity; and the actions required to
launch a United States CBDC if doing so is deemed to be in the national
interest.   
                          (ii)   My Administration sees merit in
showcasing United States leadership and participation in international
fora related to CBDCs and in multi‑country conversations and pilot
projects involving CBDCs.  Any future dollar payment system should be
designed in a way that is consistent with United States priorities (as
outlined in section 4(a)(i) of this order) and democratic values,
including privacy protections, and that ensures the global financial
system has appropriate transparency, connectivity, and platform and
architecture interoperability or transferability, as appropriate.  
                          (iii)  A United States CBDC may have the
potential to support efficient and low-cost transactions, particularly
for cross‑border funds transfers and payments, and to foster greater
access to the financial system, with fewer of the risks posed by private
sector-administered digital assets.  A United States CBDC that is
interoperable with CBDCs issued by other monetary authorities could
facilitate faster and lower-cost cross-border payments and potentially
boost economic growth, support the continued centrality of the United
States within the international financial system, and help to protect
the unique role that the dollar plays in global finance.  There are
also, however, potential risks and downsides to consider.  We should
prioritize timely assessments of potential benefits and risks under
various designs to ensure that the United States remains a leader in the
international financial system.  
             (b)  Within 180 days of the date of this order, the
Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of State,
the Attorney General, the Secretary of Commerce, the Secretary of
Homeland Security, the Director of the Office of Management and Budget,
the Director of National Intelligence, and the heads of other relevant
agencies, shall submit to the President a report on the future of money
and payment systems, including the conditions that drive broad adoption
of digital assets; the extent to which technological innovation may
influence these outcomes; and the implications for the United States
financial system, the modernization of and changes to payment systems,
economic growth, financial inclusion, and national security.  This
report shall be coordinated through the interagency process described in
section 3 of this order.  Based on the potential United States CBDC
design options, this report shall include an analysis of:  
                          (i)    the potential implications of a United
States CBDC, based on the possible design choices, for national
interests, including implications for economic growth and stability;  
                          (ii)   the potential implications a United
States CBDC might have on financial inclusion;  
                          (iii)  the potential relationship between a
CBDC and private sector-administered digital assets;  
                          (iv)   the future of sovereign and privately
produced money globally and implications for our financial system and
democracy;  
                          (v)    the extent to which foreign CBDCs could
displace existing currencies and alter the payment system in ways that
could undermine United States financial centrality;  
                          (vi)   the potential implications for national
security and financial crime, including an analysis of illicit financing
risks, sanctions risks, other law enforcement and national security
interests, and implications for human rights; and  
                          (vii)  an assessment of the effects that the
growth of foreign CBDCs may have on United States interests generally.  
             (c)  The Chairman of the Board of Governors of the Federal
Reserve System (Chairman of the Federal Reserve) is encouraged to
continue to research and report on the extent to which CBDCs could
improve the efficiency and reduce the costs of existing and future
payments systems, to continue to assess the optimal form of a United
States CBDC, and to develop a strategic plan for Federal Reserve and
broader United States Government action, as appropriate, that evaluates
the necessary steps and requirements for the potential implementation
and launch of a United States CBDC.  The Chairman of the Federal Reserve
is also encouraged to evaluate the extent to which a United States CBDC,
based on the potential design options, could enhance or impede the
ability of monetary policy to function effectively as a critical
macroeconomic stabilization tool.  
             (d)  The Attorney General, in consultation with the
Secretary of the Treasury and the Chairman of the Federal Reserve,
shall:  
                          (i)   within 180 days of the date of this
order, provide to the President through the APNSA and APEP an assessment
of whether legislative changes would be necessary to issue a United
States CBDC, should it be deemed appropriate and in the national
interest; and  
                          (ii)  within 210 days of the date of this
order, provide to the President through the APNSA and the APEP a
corresponding legislative proposal, based on consideration of the report
submitted by the Secretary of the Treasury under section 4(b) of this
order and any materials developed by the Chairman of the Federal Reserve
consistent with section 4(c) of this order.  
  
Sec. 5.  Measures to Protect Consumers, Investors, and Businesses.  (a) 
The increased use of digital assets and digital asset exchanges and
trading platforms may increase the risks of crimes such as fraud and
theft, other statutory and regulatory violations, privacy and data
breaches, unfair and abusive acts or practices, and other cyber
incidents faced by consumers, investors, and businesses.  The rise in
use of digital assets, and differences across communities, may also
present disparate financial risk to less informed market participants or
exacerbate inequities.  It is critical to ensure that digital assets do
not pose undue risks to consumers, investors, or businesses, and to put
in place protections as a part of efforts to expand access to safe and
affordable financial services.   
             (b)  Consistent with the goals stated in section 5(a) of
this order:  
                          (i)     Within 180 days of the date of this
order, the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary
of Labor and the heads of other relevant agencies, including, as
appropriate, the heads of independent regulatory agencies such as the
FTC, the SEC, the CFTC, Federal banking agencies, and the CFPB, shall
submit to the President a report, or section of the report required by
section 4 of this order, on the implications of developments and
adoption of digital assets and changes in financial market and payment
system infrastructures for United States consumers, investors,
businesses, and for equitable economic growth.  One section of the
report shall address the conditions that would drive mass adoption of
different types of digital assets and the risks and opportunities such
growth might present to United States consumers, investors, and
businesses, including a focus on how technological innovation may impact
these efforts and with an eye toward those most vulnerable to disparate
impacts.  The report shall also include policy recommendations,
including potential regulatory and legislative actions, as appropriate,
to protect United States consumers, investors, and businesses, and
support expanding access to safe and affordable financial services.  The
report shall be coordinated through the interagency process described in
section 3 of this order.  
                          (ii)    Within 180 days of the date of this
order, the Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy and
the Chief Technology Officer of the United States, in consultation with
the Secretary of the Treasury, the Chairman of the Federal Reserve, and
the heads of other relevant agencies, shall submit to the President a
technical evaluation of the technological infrastructure, capacity, and
expertise that would be necessary at relevant agencies to facilitate and
support the introduction of a CBDC system should one be proposed.  The
evaluation should specifically address the technical risks of the
various designs, including with respect to emerging and future
technological developments, such as quantum computing.  The evaluation
should also include any reflections or recommendations on how the
inclusion of digital assets in Federal processes may affect the work of
the United States Government and the provision of Government services,
including risks and benefits to cybersecurity, customer experience, and
social‑safety‑net programs.  The evaluation shall be coordinated through
the interagency process described in section 3 of this order.   
                          (iii)   Within 180 days of the date of this
order, the Attorney General, in consultation with the Secretary of the
Treasury and the Secretary of Homeland Security, shall submit to the
President a report on the role of law enforcement agencies in detecting,
investigating, and prosecuting criminal activity related to digital
assets.  The report shall include any recommendations on regulatory or
legislative actions, as appropriate.  
                          (iv)    The Attorney General, the Chair of the
FTC, and the Director of the CFPB are each encouraged to consider what,
if any, effects the growth of digital assets could have on competition
policy.  
                          (v)     The Chair of the FTC and the Director
of the CFPB are each encouraged to consider the extent to which privacy
or consumer protection measures within their respective jurisdictions
may be used to protect users of digital assets and whether additional
measures may be needed.  
                          (vi)    The Chair of the SEC, the Chairman of
the CFTC, the Chairman of the Federal Reserve, the Chairperson of the
Board of Directors of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, and the
Comptroller of the Currency are each encouraged to consider the extent
to which investor and market protection measures within their respective
jurisdictions may be used to address the risks of digital assets and
whether additional measures may be needed.  
                          (vii)   Within 180 days of the date of this
order, the Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy, in
consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury, the Secretary of
Energy, the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, the
Chair of the Council of Economic Advisers, the Assistant to the
President and National Climate Advisor, and the heads of other relevant
agencies, shall submit a report to the President on the connections
between distributed ledger technology and short-, medium-, and long-term
economic and energy transitions; the potential for these technologies to
impede or advance efforts to tackle climate change at home and abroad;
and the impacts these technologies have on the environment.  This report
shall be coordinated through the interagency process described in
section 3 of this order.  The report should also address the effect of
cryptocurrencies’ consensus mechanisms on energy usage, including
research into potential mitigating measures and alternative mechanisms
of consensus and the design tradeoffs those may entail.  The report
should specifically address:  
                                       (A)  potential uses of blockchain
that could support monitoring or mitigating technologies to climate
impacts, such as exchanging of liabilities for greenhouse gas emissions,
water, and other natural or environmental assets; and  
                                       (B)  implications for energy
policy, including as it relates to grid management and reliability,
energy efficiency incentives and standards, and sources of energy
supply.  
                          (viii)  Within 1 year of submission of the
report described in section 5(b)(vii) of this order, the Director of the
Office of Science and Technology Policy, in consultation with the
Secretary of the Treasury, the Secretary of Energy, the Administrator of
the Environmental Protection Agency, the Chair of the Council of
Economic Advisers, and the heads of other relevant agencies, shall
update the report described in section 5(b)(vii) of this order,
including to address any knowledge gaps identified in such report.  
  
Sec. 6.  Actions to Promote Financial Stability, Mitigate Systemic Risk,
and Strengthen Market Integrity.  (a)  Financial regulators — including
the SEC, the CFTC, and the CFPB and Federal banking agencies — play
critical roles in establishing and overseeing protections across the
financial system that safeguard its integrity and promote its
stability.  Since 2017, the Secretary of the Treasury has convened the
Financial Stability Oversight Council (FSOC) to assess the financial
stability risks and regulatory gaps posed by the ongoing adoption of
digital assets.  The United States must assess and take steps to address
risks that digital assets pose to financial stability and financial
market integrity.   
             (b)  Within 210 days of the date of this order, the
Secretary of the Treasury should convene the FSOC and produce a report
outlining the specific financial stability risks and regulatory gaps
posed by various types of digital assets and providing recommendations
to address such risks.  As the Secretary of the Treasury and the FSOC
deem appropriate, the report should consider the particular features of
various types of digital assets and include recommendations that address
the identified financial stability risks posed by these digital assets,
including any proposals for additional or adjusted regulation and
supervision as well as for new legislation.  The report should take
account of the prior analyses and assessments of the FSOC, agencies, and
the President’s Working Group on Financial Markets, including the
ongoing work of the Federal banking agencies, as appropriate.  
  
Sec. 7.  Actions to Limit Illicit Finance and Associated National
Security Risks.  (a)  Digital assets have facilitated sophisticated
cybercrime‑related financial networks and activity, including through
ransomware activity.  The growing use of digital assets in financial
activity heightens risks of crimes such as money laundering, terrorist
and proliferation financing, fraud and theft schemes, and corruption. 
These illicit activities highlight the need for ongoing scrutiny of the
use of digital assets, the extent to which technological innovation may
impact such activities, and exploration of opportunities to mitigate
these risks through regulation, supervision, public‑private engagement,
oversight, and law enforcement.  
             (b)  Within 90 days of submission to the Congress of the
National Strategy for Combating Terrorist and Other Illicit Financing,
the Secretary of the Treasury, the Secretary of State, the Attorney
General, the Secretary of Commerce, the Secretary of Homeland Security,
the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, the Director of
National Intelligence, and the heads of other relevant agencies may each
submit to the President supplemental annexes, which may be classified or
unclassified, to the Strategy offering additional views on illicit
finance risks posed by digital assets, including cryptocurrencies,
stablecoins, CBDCs, and trends in the use of digital assets by illicit
actors.  
             (c)  Within 120 days of submission to the Congress of the
National Strategy for Combating Terrorist and Other Illicit Financing,
the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary of
State, the Attorney General, the Secretary of Commerce, the Secretary of
Homeland Security, the Director of the Office of Management and Budget,
the Director of National Intelligence, and the heads of other relevant
agencies shall develop a coordinated action plan based on the Strategy’s
conclusions for mitigating the digital‑asset-related illicit finance and
national security risks addressed in the updated strategy.  This action
plan shall be coordinated through the interagency process described in
section 3 of this order.  The action plan shall address the role of law
enforcement and measures to increase financial services providers’
compliance with AML/CFT obligations related to digital asset
activities.  
             (d)  Within 120 days following completion of all of the
following reports — the National Money Laundering Risk Assessment; the
National Terrorist Financing Risk Assessment; the National Proliferation
Financing Risk Assessment; and the updated National Strategy for
Combating Terrorist and Other Illicit Financing — the Secretary of the
Treasury shall notify the relevant agencies through the interagency
process described in section 3 of this order on any pending, proposed,
or prospective rulemakings to address digital asset illicit finance
risks.  The Secretary of the Treasury shall consult with and consider
the perspectives of relevant agencies in evaluating opportunities to
mitigate such risks through regulation.  
  
Sec. 8.  Policy and Actions Related to Fostering International
Cooperation and United States Competitiveness.  (a)  The policy of my
Administration on fostering international cooperation and United States
competitiveness with respect to digital assets and financial innovation
is as follows:  
                          (i)    Technology-driven financial innovation
is frequently cross-border and therefore requires international
cooperation among public authorities.  This cooperation is critical to
maintaining high regulatory standards and a level playing field.  Uneven
regulation, supervision, and compliance across jurisdictions creates
opportunities for arbitrage and raises risks to financial stability and
the protection of consumers, investors, businesses, and markets.
 Inadequate AML/CFT regulation, supervision, and enforcement by other
countries challenges the ability of the United States to investigate
illicit digital asset transaction flows that frequently jump overseas,
as is often the case in ransomware payments and other cybercrime-related
money laundering.  There must also be cooperation to reduce
inefficiencies in international funds transfer and payment systems.  
                          (ii)   The United States Government has been
active in international fora and through bilateral partnerships on many
of these issues and has a robust agenda to continue this work in the
coming years.  While the United States held the position of President of
the FATF, the United States led the group in developing and adopting the
first international standards on digital assets.  The United States must
continue to work with international partners on standards for the
development and appropriate interoperability of digital payment
architectures and CBDCs to reduce payment inefficiencies and ensure that
any new funds transfer and payment systems are consistent with United
States values and legal requirements.  
                          (iii)  While the United States held the
position of President of the 2020 G7, the United States established the
G7 Digital Payments Experts Group to discuss CBDCs, stablecoins, and
other digital payment issues.  The G7 report outlining a set of policy
principles for CBDCs is an important contribution to establishing
guidelines for jurisdictions for the exploration and potential
development of CBDCs.  While a CBDC would be issued by a country’s
central bank, the supporting infrastructure could involve both public
and private participants.  The G7 report highlighted that any CBDC
should be grounded in the G7’s long-standing public commitments to
transparency, the rule of law, and sound economic governance, as well as
the promotion of competition and innovation.  
                          (iv)   The United States continues to support
the G20 roadmap for addressing challenges and frictions with
cross-border funds transfers and payments for which work is underway,
including work on improvements to existing systems for cross-border
funds transfers and payments, the international dimensions of CBDC
designs, and the potential of well-regulated stablecoin arrangements. 
The international Financial Stability Board (FSB), together with
standard-setting bodies, is leading work on issues related to
stablecoins, cross‑border funds transfers and payments, and other
international dimensions of digital assets and payments, while FATF
continues its leadership in setting AML/CFT standards for digital
assets.  Such international work should continue to address the full
spectrum of issues and challenges raised by digital assets, including
financial stability, consumer, investor, and business risks, and money
laundering, terrorist financing, proliferation financing, sanctions
evasion, and other illicit activities.   
                          (v)    My Administration will elevate the
importance of these topics and expand engagement with our critical
international partners, including through fora such as the G7, G20,
FATF, and FSB.  My Administration will support the ongoing international
work and, where appropriate, push for additional work to drive
development and implementation of holistic standards, cooperation and
coordination, and information sharing.  With respect to digital assets,
my Administration will seek to ensure that our core democratic values
are respected; consumers, investors, and businesses are protected;
appropriate global financial system connectivity and platform and
architecture interoperability are preserved; and the safety and
soundness of the global financial system and international monetary
system are maintained.  
             (b) In furtherance of the policy stated in section 8(a) of
this order:  
                          (i)    Within 120 days of the date of this
order, the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary
of State, the Secretary of Commerce, the Administrator of the United
States Agency for International Development, and the heads of other
relevant agencies, shall establish a framework for interagency
international engagement with foreign counterparts and in international
fora to, as appropriate, adapt, update, and enhance adoption of global
principles and standards for how digital assets are used and transacted,
and to promote development of digital asset and CBDC technologies
consistent with our values and legal requirements.  This framework shall
be coordinated through the interagency process described in section 3 of
this order.  This framework shall include specific and prioritized lines
of effort and coordinated messaging; interagency engagement and
activities with foreign partners, such as foreign assistance and
capacity-building efforts and coordination of global compliance; and
whole‑of‑government efforts to promote international principles,
standards, and best practices.  This framework should reflect ongoing
leadership by the Secretary of the Treasury and financial regulators in
relevant international financial standards bodies, and should elevate
United States engagement on digital assets issues in technical standards
bodies and other international fora to promote development of digital
asset and CBDC technologies consistent with our values.  
                          (ii)   Within 1 year of the date of the
establishment of the framework required by section 8(b)(i) of this
order, the Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Secretary
of State, the Secretary of Commerce, the Director of the Office of
Management and Budget, the Administrator of the United States Agency for
International Development, and the heads of other relevant agencies as
appropriate, shall submit a report to the President on priority actions
taken under the framework and its effectiveness.  This report shall be
coordinated through the interagency process described in section 3 of
this order.  
                          (iii)  Within 180 days of the date of this
order, the Secretary of Commerce, in consultation with the Secretary of
State, the Secretary of the Treasury, and the heads of other relevant
agencies, shall establish a framework for enhancing United States
economic competitiveness in, and leveraging of, digital asset
technologies.  This framework shall be coordinated through the
interagency process described in section 3 of this order.  
                          (iv)   Within 90 days of the date of this
order, the Attorney General, in consultation with the Secretary of
State, the Secretary of the Treasury, and the Secretary of Homeland
Security, shall submit a report to the President on how to strengthen
international law enforcement cooperation for detecting, investigating,
and prosecuting criminal activity related to digital assets.  
  
Sec. 9.  Definitions.  For the purposes of this order:  
             (a)  The term “blockchain” refers to distributed ledger
technologies where data is shared across a network that creates a
digital ledger of verified transactions or information among network
participants and the data are typically linked using cryptography to
maintain the integrity of the ledger and execute other functions,
including transfer of ownership or value.  
             (b)  The term “central bank digital currency” or “CBDC”
refers to a form of digital money or monetary value, denominated in the
national unit of account, that is a direct liability of the central
bank.  
             (c)  The term “cryptocurrencies” refers to a digital asset,
which may be a medium of exchange, for which generation or ownership
records are supported through a distributed ledger technology that
relies on cryptography, such as a blockchain.  
             (d)  The term “digital assets” refers to all CBDCs,
regardless of the technology used, and to other representations of
value, financial assets and instruments, or claims that are used to make
payments or investments, or to transmit or exchange funds or the
equivalent thereof, that are issued or represented in digital form
through the use of distributed ledger technology.  For example, digital
assets include cryptocurrencies, stablecoins, and CBDCs.  Regardless of
the label used, a digital asset may be, among other things, a security,
a commodity, a derivative, or other financial product.  Digital assets
may be exchanged across digital asset trading platforms, including
centralized and decentralized finance platforms, or through peer-to-peer
technologies.  
             (e)  The term “stablecoins” refers to a category of
cryptocurrencies with mechanisms that are aimed at maintaining a stable
value, such as by pegging the value of the coin to a specific currency,
asset, or pool of assets or by algorithmically controlling supply in
response to changes in demand in order to stabilize value.  
  
Sec. 10.  General Provisions.  (a)  Nothing in this order shall be
construed to impair or otherwise affect:  
                          (i)   the authority granted by law to an
executive department or agency, or the head thereof; or  
                          (ii)  the functions of the Director of the
Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative,
or legislative proposals.  
             (b)  This order shall be implemented consistent with
applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.  
             (c)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create
any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or
in equity by any party against the United States, its departments,
agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other
person.  

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.  
 

THE WHITE HOUSE,  
March 9, 2022.
