---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2022-03-31'
modified_time: 2022-03-31 15:13:49-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/03/31/a-proclamation-on-second-chance-month-2022/
published_time: 2022-03-31 15:12:59-04:00
title: "A Proclamation on Second Chance Month,\_2022"
---
 
April marks Second Chance Month, when we reaffirm the importance of
helping people who were formerly incarcerated reenter society.  America
is a Nation of second chances, and it is critical that our criminal and
juvenile justice systems provide meaningful opportunities for
rehabilitation and redemption.  It is also vital that we address both
the root causes of crime and the underlying needs of returning citizens
using resources devoted to prevention, diversion, reentry,
trauma-informed care, culturally-specific services, and social support.
 By supporting people who are committed to rectifying their mistakes,
redefining themselves, and making meaningful contributions to society,
we help reduce recidivism and build safer communities.

     Every year, over 640,000 people are released from State and Federal
prisons.  More than 70 million Americans have a criminal record that
creates significant barriers to employment, economic stability, and
successful reentry into society.  Thousands of legal and regulatory
restrictions prevent these individuals from accessing employment,
housing, voting, education, business licensing, and other basic
opportunities.  Because of these barriers, nearly 75 percent of people
who were formerly incarcerated are still unemployed a year after being
released.

     We must rethink the existing criminal justice system and whom we
send to prison and for how long; how unaddressed trauma and abuse create
pipelines to incarceration; how people are treated while incarcerated;
how prepared they are to reenter society once they have served their
time; and how the racial inequities that lead to disproportionate
numbers of incarcerated people of color and other underserved groups.

     My Administration recognizes that making the criminal and juvenile
justice systems more equitable, just, and effective requires a holistic
approach.  It requires eliminating exceedingly long sentences and
mandatory minimums that keep people incarcerated longer than they should
be.  It requires quality job training and educational opportunities
during incarceration.  It requires providing formerly incarcerated
individuals with opportunities to enter the workforce, reunite with
their families, find stable and safe homes, and access health care.  It
requires expunging and sealing certain criminal records so that people’s
futures are not defined by their past.

     That is why my Administration is working across Federal agencies to
eliminate barriers to reentry.  We are expanding avenues for employment,
housing, education, health services, civic engagement, and other
benefits.  Last fall, the Department of Justice convened the Reentry
Coordination Council in collaboration with the Departments of Housing
and Urban Development, Agriculture, Education, Health and Human
Services, Veterans Affairs, and Labor.  I am confident that our
collective efforts will help make our communities safer and stronger by
reducing crime, recidivism, mass incarceration, and elements of the
justice system that foster harmful disparate impacts on people of color
and other historically disadvantaged communities.

     But despite our progress, much more work remains.  Our Federal,
State, local, territorial, and Tribal governments, private employers,
philanthropies, and community leaders play a significant role in
preparing individuals returning to our communities for success. 
Together, let us recommit to empower Americans who have paid their debt
to society and to provide them with a second chance to participate,
contribute, and succeed.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the
United States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
April 2022 as Second Chance Month.  I call upon all government
officials, educators, volunteers, and all the people of the United
States to observe the month with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and
activities.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirty-first
day of March, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-two, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
