---
tags: presidential-actions
date: '2022-03-04'
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/03/04/national-consumer-protection-week-2022/
published_time: 2022-03-04 14:51:13-05:00
title: "National Consumer Protection Week,\_2022"
---
 
As our Nation recovers and our economy continues its historic growth
following a global pandemic, it is important that consumers are fully
informed about their rights and the potential risks in the
marketplace.  Hardworking American families deserve to feel secure in
the knowledge that, as we build back better, we are building an economy
based on principles of fairness, privacy, and equity.  During National
Consumer Protection Week, we recommit ourselves to those basic rights,
to protecting consumers, to raising awareness about bad actors and
deceptive practices in the marketplace, and to empowering people to make
informed financial decisions so that our economy works for everyone.

My Administration has zero tolerance for criminals who steal Americans’
hard-earned dollars or abuse their personal information.  Particularly
in moments of crisis, like this pandemic, unscrupulous individuals have
tried to take advantage of struggling Americans by price gouging,
stealing money, harvesting personal information, and offering false hope
for economic assistance, jobs, treatments, and cures.  We are committed
to halting these practices and protecting all consumers, including small
businesses and gig workers, from fraud and unlawful business
practices.  Our Nation’s consumer protection agencies — including the
Federal Trade Commission (FTC), Consumer Financial Protection Bureau,
and Consumer Product Safety Commission — work with the Department of
Justice and law enforcement agencies nationwide to fight fraud,
predatory practices, and data exploitation by abusers large and
small.  These agencies work every day to protect consumers and ensure
product safety through investigations, law enforcement actions, and
free, actionable, plain-language consumer education resources.

Abusive practices have an especially harmful impact on communities of
color, who are often targeted by bad actors.  A report from the FTC
— *Serving Communities of Color* — found that people living in
majority-Black and Latino communities were more likely to experience
problems with credit bureaus, banks and lenders, and used car issues
than those living in majority-white communities.  That is why my
Administration is reviving the Government’s top consumer watchdog, the
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, to address racial disparities in
access to loans, capital, and credit, while protecting consumers in
historically underserved communities. 

As a Nation, let us work together to create an environment that protects
and educates American consumers and communities.  This National Consumer
Protection Week, and all year long, my Administration is committed to
ensuring that every American has access to information that can help
protect themselves and their communities.  To learn more about these
resources, please
visit [consumer.ftc.gov](https://www.consumer.ftc.gov/features/national-consumer-protection-week).  To
learn how to get involved with National Consumer Protection Week, you
can
visit [ftc.gov/ncpw](https://www.consumer.ftc.gov/features/national-consumer-protection-week). 

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim March 6, 2022,
through March 12, 2022, as National Consumer Protection Week.  I call
upon government officials, industry leaders, and advocates across the
Nation to share information about consumer protection and provide our
citizens with information about their rights as consumers.     IN
WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this fourth day of March,
in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-two, and of the Independence
of the United States of America the two hundred and forty-sixth.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
