---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2022-03-21'
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/03/21/a-proclamation-on-national-agriculture-day-2022/
published_time: 2022-03-21 11:32:26-04:00
title: "A Proclamation on National Agriculture Day,\_2022"
---
 
     On National Agriculture Day, we recognize the invaluable
contributions of American farmers, farmworkers, ranchers, fishers,
foresters, and other agricultural workers, who have practiced their
craft for generations and touch the lives of Americans every day.  Their
tireless efforts growing crops, raising livestock, and distributing
food, fuel, and fiber sustain America and the entire world.  They put
meals on our plates, clothes on our backs, and roofs over our
heads.  Along the way, America’s agricultural workers serve as stewards
of the land; ensure the safety and health of animals, plants, and
people; and strengthen our rural communities with economic
opportunities.  
  
     Throughout the COVID-19 pandemic, the country’s agricultural
workers have stepped up and stayed resilient, adapting their operations
to ensure that every family has enough food on the table.  To support
their efforts and ensure a stable food supply, our pandemic economic
recovery assistance supports our agricultural businesses, whose
operations were among the hardest hit by market disruptions.  We are
building a food system that will be more competitive, balanced, and
equitable — made possible by expanded and fairer markets, investments
that sharpen farmers’ competitive edge, and an emphasis on more
affordable, healthy food for consumers that is produced closer to
home.  
  
     My Administration is also committed to protecting farmers —
including small family farms that are vital to our food system — by
bolstering competition across the industry and around the world.  We are
taking action to enforce antitrust laws, move agriculture products to
market more expeditiously, expand new agriculture processing capacity,
and strengthen our supply chain resiliency.  We are also eliminating
systemic barriers that have denied underserved producers consistent,
fair, and equal access to opportunities for far too long.  My
Administration remains determined to advance an American agriculture
sector that works for everyone.    
  
     National Agriculture Day also celebrates the farmers, ranchers,
fishers, and foresters who adopt agricultural practices that help combat
the climate crisis.  Extreme weather events, including droughts, floods,
wildfires, tornadoes, hurricanes, and other climate-related disasters,
have had a devastating impact on American agriculture.  My
Administration is committed to helping the agriculture sector enhance
its resiliency and sustainability while increasing its productivity and
profitability.  By working together, we can ensure that American
agriculture continues to lead the world in production, that our food
supply is secure, and that our economy remains strong.  
  
     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim March
22, 2022, as National Agriculture Day.  I call upon all Americans to
join me in recognizing and reaffirming our commitment to and
appreciation for our country’s farmers, ranchers, foresters,
farmworkers, and all those who work in the agriculture sector across the
Nation.  
  
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
twenty-first day of March, in the year of our Lord
two thousand twenty-two, and of the Independence of the United States
of America the two hundred and forty-sixth.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
