---
date: '2022-03-30'
modified_time: 2022-03-30 15:29:12-04:00
published_time: 2022-03-30 15:29:11-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/03/30/a-proclamation-on-transgender-day-of-visibility-2022/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Transgender Day Of Visibility,\_2022"
---
 
BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

A PROCLAMATION

To everyone celebrating Transgender Day of Visibility, I want you to
know that your President sees you.  The First Lady, the Vice President,
the Second Gentleman, and my entire Administration see you for who you
are — made in the image of God and deserving of dignity, respect, and
support.  On this day and every day, we recognize the resilience,
strength, and joy of transgender, nonbinary, and gender nonconforming
people.  We celebrate the activism and determination that have fueled
the fight for transgender equality.  We acknowledge the adversity and
discrimination that the transgender community continues to face across
our Nation and around the world.

     Visibility matters, and so many transgender, nonbinary, and gender
nonconforming Americans are thriving.  Like never before, they are
sharing their stories in books and magazines; breaking glass ceilings of
representation on television and movie screens; enlisting — once again —
to serve proudly and openly in our military; getting elected and making
policy at every level of government; and running businesses, curing
diseases, and serving our communities in countless other ways.

     Despite this progress, transgender Americans continue to face
discrimination, harassment, and barriers to opportunity.  Transgender
women and girls — especially transgender women and girls of color —
continue to face epidemic levels of violence, and 2021 marked the
deadliest year on record for transgender Americans.  Each of these lives
lost was precious.  Each of them deserved freedom, justice, and joy.  We
must honor their lives with action by advancing equity and civil rights
for all transgender people.

     In the past year, hundreds of anti-transgender bills in States were
proposed across America, most of them targeting transgender kids.  The
onslaught has continued this year.  These bills are wrong.  Efforts to
criminalize supportive medical care for transgender kids, to ban
transgender children from playing sports, and to outlaw discussing
LGBTQI+ people in schools undermine their humanity and corrode our
Nation’s values.  Studies have shown that these political attacks are
damaging to the mental health and well-being of transgender youth,
putting children and their families at greater risk of bullying and
discrimination.

     My entire Administration is committed to ensuring that transgender
people enjoy the freedom and equality that are promised to everyone in
America.  That is why I signed an Executive Order Preventing and
Combating Discrimination on the Basis of Gender Identity or Sexual
Orientation.  We are expanding Federal non-discrimination protections;
promoting strategies to address violence against the transgender
community and advance gender equity and equality; and disseminating new
resources to enhance inclusion, opportunity, and safety for transgender
people.  Additionally, Americans will soon be able to select more
inclusive gender markers on their passports.  I continue to call on the
Congress to swiftly pass the bipartisan Equality Act, which will ensure
that LGBTQI+ individuals and families cannot be denied housing,
employment, education, credit, and more because of who they are or who
they love.  We will continue to work to help transgender people around
the world live free from discrimination and violence.

     On this Transgender Day of Visibility, we honor transgender people
who are fighting for freedom, equality, dignity, and respect.  We also
celebrate the parents, teachers, coaches, doctors, and other allies who
affirm the identities of their transgender children and help these young
people reach their potential.  Transgender people are some of the
bravest Americans I know, and our Nation and the world are stronger,
more vibrant, and more prosperous because of them.  To transgender
Americans of all ages, I want you to know that you are so brave.  You
belong.  I have your back.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim March
31, 2022, as Transgender Day of Visibility.  I call upon all Americans
to join us in lifting up the lives and voices of transgender people
throughout our Nation and to work toward eliminating discrimination
against all transgender, gender nonconforming, and nonbinary people —
and all people.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirtieth day
of March, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-two, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
