---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2022-03-01'
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/03/01/memorandum-on-the-finding-that-a-drawdown-and-sale-of-petroleum-from-the-strategic-petroleum-reserve-is-required-by-u-s-obligations-under-the-international-energy-program-implemented-by-the-internati/
published_time: 2022-03-01 15:06:54-05:00
title: Memorandum on the Finding that a Drawdown and Sale of Petroleum from the Strategic
  Petroleum Reserve is Required by U.S. Obligations Under the International Energy
  Program Implemented by the International Energy Agency
---
 
MEMORANDUM FOR THE SECRETARY OF ENERGY

SUBJECT:       Finding that a Drawdown and Sale of Petroleum from the
Strategic Petroleum Reserve is Required by U.S. Obligations Under the
International Energy Program Implemented by the International Energy
Agency 

On February 21, 2022, the Russian government initiated a further
invasion of Ukraine.  On February 23, 2022, Russia launched missile
strikes, air raids, and the movement of tanks and troops into broad
swaths of Ukrainian territory.  Since then, fighting has intensified
along Ukraine’s northern, eastern, and southern borders, and in major
cities and at critical facilities.  Russia’s actions in Ukraine have
resulted in energy supply shortages of significant scope and duration
and have already caused a substantial increase in oil prices worldwide
that threatens to slow United States economic growth at this critical
point in our economic recovery.  

Based on information from and advice of the Secretary of Energy
(Secretary) and on other information, I find, in accordance with section
161(d) of the Energy Policy and Conservation Act (EPCA), 42 U.S.C.
6241(d), that a drawdown and sale of petroleum from the Strategic
Petroleum Reserve (SPR) is required by U.S. obligations under the
International Energy Program implemented by the International Energy
Agency and created by the Agreement on an International Energy Program,
signed by the United States on November 18, 1974.

For these reasons, the Secretary is authorized and directed to draw down
and sell petroleum from the SPR at public sale to the highest qualified
bidder at a rate the Secretary may determine, in accordance with section
161 of EPCA and the SPR competitive sales procedures in 10 CFR Part
625.  The drawdown and sale authorized and directed by this finding will
allow the United States to meet its obligations under the Agreement on
an International Energy Program.  If the Secretary determines the
circumstances leading to this finding no longer support initiation or
continuation of a drawdown and sale of petroleum from the SPR, the
Secretary is authorized to cancel in whole or in part any offer to sell
petroleum as a part of any drawdown and sale pursuant to this finding. 

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
