---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2022-03-30'
modified_time: 2022-03-30 15:29:08-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/03/30/a-proclamation-on-cesar-chavez-day-2022/
published_time: 2022-03-30 15:29:07-04:00
title: "A Proclamation on C\xE9sar Ch\xE1vez Day,\_2022"
---
 
BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

A PROCLAMATION

Today we celebrate the life and legacy of César Estrada Chávez, a
champion for social justice and advocate for hardworking people who
build and sustain our Nation.  Born into poverty and raised by migrant
workers, Chávez courageously dedicated his life to improving conditions
for workers across the country.  Chávez witnessed firsthand the
inequities of an economy that only served those at the top and left
millions of hardworking Americans behind.  Today, as we continue to
build an economy from the bottom up and the middle out and that rewards
work and not just wealth, we stand on the shoulders of César Chávez and
carry forward his fight to advance the rights and dignity of working
people and fulfill the promise of America for all Americans.

     When César Chávez founded the United Farm Workers of America
alongside Dolores Huerta, he drew national attention to the many
agricultural workers who experience inhumane working conditions and
unlivable wages.  Through strikes, marches, and boycotts, he inspired
millions of people across the country to fight for safe and healthy
workplaces, better wages, improved workplace protections from sickness
and disability, and other core rights and protections. 

     In the process, Chávez inspired generations of people across all
backgrounds, ages, and industries to organize, bargain, and expand
opportunity for workers and their families.  His devotion to “La Causa”
brought hope to workers and Latinos across the Nation — and his fight
for justice, equality, and dignity gave workers and Latinos everywhere a
voice.  Today, we must summon the same courage and moral clarity to
carry his legacy forward so that everyone has a fair shot at the
American dream.

     That is why my Administration continues to urge the Congress to
pass the Protecting the Right to Organize Act and the Farm Workforce
Modernization Act — so farmworkers can bargain collectively, obtain
legal status, and have better working conditions.  It is why I fought
hard to pass the American Rescue Plan early in my Administration to
ensure Latino workers, families, and small businesses had the
protections and financial support they needed to pay rent and put food
on their table.  It is why I appointed Marty Walsh, a former union
leader, to lead the Department of Labor — because he understands how
union workers hold this country together.  It is why my Administration
created an historic Task Force on Worker Organizing and Empowerment —
because I believe in empowering workers to organize and providing those
that put food on our table an earned pathway to citizenship.

     As our Nation celebrates César Chávez’s 95th birthday, let us keep
the lessons he taught in our minds and the values he lived by in our
hearts:  the power of workers to bargain for a better deal, strength in
the face of extraordinary adversity, and the conviction to fight for
what we believe in.

     When I became President, I proudly placed a bust of César Chávez in
the Oval Office — a constant reminder of the enduring values he
embodied, the vision of freedom he fought for, and his commitment to
social justice and equal dignity that we must uphold each and every
day. 

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim March
31, 2022, as César Chávez Day.  I call upon all Americans to observe
this day as a day of service and learning, with appropriate service,
community, and education programs to honor César Chávez’s enduring
legacy. 

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this

thirtieth day of March, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-two,
and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred
and forty-sixth.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
