---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2022-03-08'
modified_time: 2022-03-08 14:47:09-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/03/08/executive-order-on-prohibiting-certain-imports-and-new-investments-with-respect-to-continued-russian-federation-efforts-to-undermine-the-sovereignty-and-territorial-integrity-of-ukraine/
published_time: 2022-03-08 12:29:51-05:00
title: Executive Order on Prohibiting Certain Imports and New Investments With Respect
  to Continued Russian Federation Efforts to Undermine the Sovereignty and Territorial
  Integrity of Ukraine
---
 
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, including the International
Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 *et seq*.) (IEEPA), the
National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1601 *et seq*.), and section 301 of
title 3, United States Code,

I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States of America,
hereby expand the scope of the national emergency declared in Executive
Order 14024 of April 15, 2021, and relied on for additional steps taken
in Executive Order 14039 of August 20, 2021, finding that the Russian
Federation’s unjustified, unprovoked, unyielding, and unconscionable war
against Ukraine, including its recent further invasion in violation of
international law, including the United Nations Charter, further
threatens the peace, stability, sovereignty, and territorial integrity
of Ukraine, and thereby constitutes an unusual and extraordinary threat
to the national security and foreign policy of the United States. 
Accordingly, I hereby order:

     Section 1.  (a)  The following are prohibited:

(i)    the importation into the United States of the following products
of Russian Federation origin:  crude oil; petroleum; petroleum fuels,
oils, and products of their distillation; liquefied natural gas; coal;
and coal products;

(ii)   new investment in the energy sector in the Russian Federation by
a United States person, wherever located; and

(iii)  any approval, financing, facilitation, or guarantee by a United
States person, wherever located, of a transaction by a foreign person
where the transaction by that foreign person would be prohibited by this
section if performed by a United States person or within the United
States.

     (b)  The prohibitions in subsection (a) of this section apply
except to the extent provided by statutes, or in regulations, orders,
directives, or licenses that may be issued pursuant to this order, and
notwithstanding any contract entered into or license or permit granted
prior to the date of this order.

     Sec. 2.  (a)  Any transaction that evades or avoids, has the
purpose of evading or avoiding, causes a violation of, or attempts to
violate any of the prohibitions set forth in this order is prohibited.

     (b)  Any conspiracy formed to violate any of the prohibitions set
forth in this order is prohibited.

     Sec. 3.  Nothing in this order shall prohibit transactions for the
conduct of the official business of the Federal Government or the United
Nations (including its specialized agencies, programs, funds, and
related organizations) by employees, grantees, or contractors thereof.

     Sec. 4.  For the purposes of this order:

     (a)  the term “entity” means a partnership, association, trust,
joint venture, corporation, group, subgroup, or other organization;

     (b)  the term “person” means an individual or entity; and

     (c)  the term “United States person” means any United States
citizen, lawful permanent resident, entity organized under the laws of
the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States
(including foreign branches), or any person in the United States.

     Sec. 5.  The Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the
Secretary of State, is hereby authorized to take such actions, including
the promulgation of rules and regulations, and to employ all powers
granted to the President by IEEPA, as may be necessary to carry out the
purposes of this order.  The Secretary of the Treasury may, consistent
with applicable law, redelegate any of these functions within the
Department of the Treasury.  All executive departments and agencies of
the United States shall take all appropriate measures within their
authority to implement this order.

     Sec. 6.  (a)  Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or
otherwise affect:

(i)   the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency,
or the head thereof; or

(ii)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

     (b)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law
and subject to the availability of appropriations.

     (c)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right
or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity
by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.

THE WHITE HOUSE,

    March 8, 2022.
