---
date: '2022-03-31'
modified_time: 2022-03-31 15:04:32-04:00
published_time: 2022-03-31 15:02:24-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/03/31/a-proclamation-on-national-sexual-assault-awareness-and-prevention-month-2022/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Sexual Assault Awareness And Prevention Month,\_\
  2022"
---
 
     I was raised to believe that one of the greatest sins is the abuse
of power –- whether it is economic, psychological, or physical.  The
cruel fact is that people of every age, ability, race, sex, gender
identity, sexual orientation, national origin, socioeconomic background,
and religion suffer the pain and trauma of the abuse of power that is
sexual assault.  Sexual violence can occur anywhere — and millions of
assaults occur each year at the workplace, in the home, at school, and
online.  These assaults are an intolerable affront to our shared
humanity.  During National Sexual Assault Awareness and Prevention
Month, we renew our commitment to ensuring that every person can live a
life free from sexual violence.  We continue in our commitment to stand
with survivors, hold perpetrators accountable, and dismantle a culture
that is complicit in allowing sexual violence to continue.

     Sexual assault is also a public health crisis.  According to the
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, nearly 1 in 5 women in
America experiences a rape or attempted rape, and nearly 44 percent of
women and about 25 percent of all men experience some form of sexual
violence in their lifetime.  Tragically, many of those assaulted are
young, and research shows that these assaults can have lifelong effects
on health and are linked to chronic illnesses.  Too often, this trauma
is compounded by lost productivity, the challenge of seeking
accountability, and the ensuing costs of medical and mental health care.

     My Administration is committed to supporting survivors and
alleviating the public health crisis of sexual assault.  That is why we
included $450 million in the American Rescue Plan to provide funding for
domestic violence and sexual assault services, including rape crisis
centers.  We also included a historic commitment to funding
culturally-specific community-based organizations to address the needs
of survivors who face systemic barriers to accessing support and
resources, including survivors of color, survivors with disabilities,
and LGBTQI+ survivors.  My Administration continues to fund innovative
programs to support sexual assault survivors in rural and remote
communities.

     I am committed to addressing sexual violence wherever it occurs. 
Last year, I issued an Executive Order directing the Department of
Education to review Title IX regulations and other agency actions to
ensure that all students have an educational environment that is free
from discrimination on the basis of sex.  Because 1 in 3 women under the
age of 35 has experienced sexual harassment online, I have made
addressing online forms of sexual violence, harassment, and abuse a
priority, and my Administration recently launched a new Global
Partnership for Action on Gender-Based Online Harassment and Abuse.

     Sexual violence is also a matter of national security and military
readiness.  To advance the goal of eliminating sexual assault in our
Armed Forces, I signed the 2022 National Defense Authorization Act,
which includes the historic shift of legal decisions in cases of sexual
assault from commanders to independent, specialized military
prosecutors.  To implement the I Am Vanessa Guillén Act, I also issued
an Executive Order to add sexual harassment as a specific offense under
the Uniform Code of Military Justice.

     I was proud to support and sign into law the Ending Forced
Arbitration of Sexual Assault and Sexual Harassment Act of 2021.  This
law advances efforts to prevent and address sexual harassment and sexual
assault and promotes access to justice by guaranteeing that people who
have experienced sexual assault and sexual harassment in the workplace
are not forced into binding arbitration and are instead allowed to
choose whether to go to court.

     Ending violence against women and eliminating sexual assault has
been a priority for me throughout my life.  It is why I wrote and
championed the original Violence Against Women Act (VAWA), a law that
has transformed how we respond to sexual assault and which I count as
one of my proudest legislative accomplishments.  I am proud to have
recently signed into law the reauthorization of VAWA, which expands
prevention efforts and protections for survivors of sexual assault and
other forms of gender-based violence.  The law will provide increased
resources and training so that our law enforcement and our judicial
systems are better able to appropriately handle these cases. 
It includes a new focus on addressing technology-facilitated abuse and
establishes a Federal civil cause of action for victims of
non-consensual distribution of intimate images.  The Act will strengthen
rape prevention and education efforts, support rape crisis centers,
improve the training of sexual assault forensic examiners, reduce the
backlog of untested DNA kits, and broaden access to legal services for
all survivors.  It will also expand recognition of the special criminal
jurisdiction of Tribal courts to cover non-Native perpetrators of sexual
assault, sex trafficking, child abuse, and stalking.

     This month, we honor the bravery and leadership of survivors by
rededicating ourselves to eliminating sexual violence.  It will require
care and commitment from each of us to realize an America where everyone
is free from the threat and impact of sexual violence.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim April
2022 as National Sexual Assault Awareness and Prevention Month.  I urge
all Americans to support sexual assault survivors including when
survivors reach out and disclose abuse.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirty-first
day of March, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-two, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
