---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2022-03-31'
modified_time: 2022-03-31 14:55:12-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/03/31/national-cancer-control-month-2022/
published_time: 2022-03-31 14:54:23-04:00
title: "A Proclamation on National Cancer Control Month,\_2022"
---
 
    Since the Congress passed the landmark National Cancer Act in 1971,
our Nation has made tremendous strides in preventing, detecting, and
treating cancer.  But nearly all families –including my own and that of
the Vice President’s — still know the pain a cancer diagnosis
brings.  Despite our Nation’s progress over the last 50 years, cancer in
its many forms is still the second leading cause of death in the United
States, with more than 600,000 deaths and nearly 1.9 million new cancer
diagnoses each year.  A cancer diagnosis remains a crushing blow to
those diagnosed, as well as their loved ones.  In the name of all those
we have lost and for all those still fighting, I believe we can end
cancer as we know it.    
  
     During National Cancer Control Month, we renew our commitments to
improve cancer prevention, promote early detection, enhance treatment,
and support the needs of cancer patients, survivors, and caregivers.  We
recognize that while the fight against cancer is often personal, the
desire to make cancer more preventable, detectable, and treatable is one
that has the potential to unite us as a Nation, inspiring us to stand
together and work together.    
  
     In 2016, as Vice President, I led the Cancer Moonshot to accelerate
our progress against cancer and take advantage of 21st century science
and technology — an effort that has catalyzed change across the cancer
community.  As President, I have reignited the Cancer Moonshot and set
ambitious new goals to reduce the death rate from cancer by 50 percent
over the next 25 years and to improve the experience of people and their
families living with and surviving cancer.  We are creating the Advanced
Research Projects Agency for Health (ARPA-H), with the singular purpose
of expediting breakthroughs in the prevention, detection, and treatment
of cancer and other deadly diseases.    
  
     As part of a recommitment to the Cancer Moonshot, the First Lady
and I announced a call to action on cancer screening and early
detection.  Our goal is to drive progress on potentially life-saving
screenings that so many Americans have missed as a result of the
pandemic and to help ensure that everyone in the United States benefits
equitably from the technology we have to detect, diagnose, and treat
cancer.  We urge every American to get back on track with their
recommended screenings, and we implore the public and private sectors to
increase access to early detection for individuals and communities.  To
learn more about which cancer screenings are appropriate for you, talk
to your healthcare provider,
visit [cdc.gov/cancerscreening](https://www.cdc.gov/cancer/dcpc/prevention/screening.htm) or [cancer.gov/screeningtests](https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/screening/screening-tests),
or call 1-800-4-CANCER.   
  
     We also encourage Americans to take the proven steps to lower their
risk for many forms of cancer.  Experts agree that reducing tobacco use,
eating healthily, engaging in regular physical activity and exercise,
limiting alcohol consumption, and reducing exposure to the sun when it
is at its peak can help reduce the risk of a cancer diagnosis.  Given
that cigarette smoking is responsible for 30 percent of all cancer
deaths, helping people quit smoking and limiting exposure to secondhand
smoke can save lives.  Resources are available
at [SmokeFree.gov](http://www.smokefree.gov/), by calling
1-800-QUIT-NOW, or by texting QUITNOW to 333888.   
  
     Access to health coverage is critical to the fight against cancer,
and we were proud to expand access to quality, affordable coverage
through the American Rescue Plan.  Most health insurance plans are
required to cover recommended cancer screenings with no out-of-pocket
costs.  But for millions of Americans, the care they need is not within
reach.  That is why I am committed to reducing prescription drug costs
and health insurance premiums for millions of Americans and closing the
Medicaid coverage gap in States that refuse to expand Medicaid.  This
would allow millions more of our fellow Americans to access cancer
screenings and tobacco cessation services.    
  
     We also thank the doctors, nurses, researchers, caregivers, and
advocates who are dedicated to finding treatments and cures and reducing
the pain and burden of cancer.  Our Nation’s health care workers
continued to provide care and support to cancer patients and their loved
ones, even as a global pandemic made their jobs more difficult and
demanding, and our Nation is forever grateful.    
  
    During Cancer Control Month, we reaffirm our national commitment to
meet the scourge of cancer with urgency and with all the tools and
talent we can bring to bear.  For survivors and caregivers who carry the
physical and mental scars of cancer treatment and recovery, for those
who we have lost, and for those who we can save — let us end cancer as
we know it.   
  
     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, do hereby proclaim April 2022 as National Cancer
Control Month.  I encourage citizens, government agencies, private
businesses, nonprofit organizations, and other interested groups to join
in activities that will increase awareness of what Americans can do to
prevent, detect, treat, and control cancer.  
  
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirty-first
day of March, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-two, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.  

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
