---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2022-03-01'
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/03/01/a-proclamation-on-read-across-america-day-2022/
published_time: 2022-03-01 11:55:56-05:00
title: "A Proclamation on Read Across America Day,\_2022"
---
 
Reading ignites imagination, insight, and inspiration.  It nourishes a
child’s creativity and curiosity, and inspires a passion for lifelong
learning.  Books can challenge and inspire.  They can teach important
lessons, reveal new worlds, and enrich our understanding of our own — of
different people, perspectives, and cultures.  On Read Across America
Day, we celebrate the joy of learning and give thanks to the parents,
caregivers, educators, librarians, authors, and community members who
invest in our Nation’s children. 

For many young Americans, the path to literacy begins with treasured and
timeless traditions:  being read to at bedtime, gathering in classrooms
for story time, and attending events at local libraries with family and
friends.  Children’s classics such as Dr. Seuss’ “Green Eggs and Ham”
and “Oh, the Places You’ll Go!” have inspired a passion for reading and
endless creativity that spans generations.  Today’s stories and
adventures are as diverse as the world in which we live, and by reading
them, we come to more fully understand the vibrant diversity of our
Nation — and the world.  This is especially important as young people
learn and grow and engage with their own sense of identity.  Books build
each child’s sense of belonging and can help inculcate respect and
empathy for others. 

The First Lady, a lifelong educator, has said, “reading is the
foundation of all education.  It affects every aspect of our society.” 
This has never been truer than today.  It is one of the many reasons why
my Administration is committed to advancing educational excellence for
every child and literacy for every American.  It is why I have proposed
making 2 years of high-quality preschool available to every child in
America.  It is one of the reasons why safely reopening schools for
in-person instruction was a priority for my Administration from day one
— so that children could get back to learning in the classroom with
their peers — and why the American Rescue Plan included $122 billion to
keep schools open safely and help address the learning loss and mental
health impacts of missing school.  School districts across the country
are already using these funds to support literacy efforts by updating
curricula and hiring specialists.

My Administration is also committed to supporting volunteer and literacy
programs that help young people and adults master reading.  This work is
crucial, as half of adults in the United States are unable to read a
book written for the eighth-grade level, and nearly a quarter of
American adults have not read a book over the last year.

I often say that children are the kite strings that keep our National
ambitions aloft.  On Read Across America Day, we dedicate ourselves to
helping each new generation of readers and thinkers become the leaders
who will write a more hopeful chapter in the American narrative and in
the story of our shared world.  As the great American writer Toni
Morrison reminds us:  “If you find a book you really want to read but it
hasn’t been written yet, then you must write it.”

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim March 2, 2022, as
Read Across America Day.  I call upon children, families, educators,
librarians, public officials, and all the people of the United States to
observe this day with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this first day of March,
in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-two, and of the Independence
of the United States of America the two hundred and forty-sixth.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
