---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2022-03-28'
modified_time: 2022-03-28 16:33:56-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/03/28/a-proclamation-on-the-commemoration-of-the-50th-anniversary-of-the-vietnam-war/
published_time: 2022-03-28 16:33:55-04:00
title: A Proclamation on the Commemoration of the 50th Anniversary of the Vietnam
  War
---
 
On National Vietnam War Veterans Day, we honor all those who bravely
served in the Vietnam War and who sacrificed, as did their families and
caregivers, on behalf of our Nation.

     For almost two decades, Americans raised their right hands and
committed to serve and defend our Constitution as uniformed members of
the United States Armed Forces during a tumultuous period in our
country’s history.  Throughout the years of the Vietnam War, 9 million
Americans earned the title of United States veteran.  Today and every
day, we honor their bravery and commitment and give thanks to a
generation of Americans who valiantly fought in service of the country
they love while recognizing the continuing impact on so many veterans of
the Vietnam conflict, along with their families, caregivers, and
survivors.  We will always remember those we lost and honor those who
came home.

     In 2012, our Nation launched a 13-year long commemoration of the
50th anniversary of the Vietnam War to ensure that every veteran,
family, caregiver, and survivor impacted by the difficult years in
Vietnam feels our Nation’s gratitude for their sacrifice.  Every service
member of the Vietnam generation should know that their sacrifices
mattered and that their service made a difference.  The names etched in
The Wall at the Vietnam Veterans Memorial remind us of our loved ones
who gave their all and never came home.  To the families, caregivers,
and survivors of the more than 58,000 service members whose names are
memorialized in the black granite, we pledge to never forget the eternal
sacrifice of your loved ones and what you have sacrificed for the
Nation.

     To the families of the over 1,500 service members who remain
missing and unaccounted for, know that our Nation’s efforts to bring
them home will never stop.

     We pledge our steadfast care and support to our Vietnam veterans,
as we do for all of our veterans.  We will honor our sacred obligation
to you and your family.

     And to each of the 6 million Vietnam War era veterans who are with
us today, we honor your service and all that you have done for our
Nation.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby affirm this
Nation’s commitment to commemorate the 50th Anniversary of the Vietnam
War, which began on Memorial Day, May 28, 2012, and which will continue
through Veterans Day, November 11, 2025.  I call upon all Americans to
seek out and extend the Nation’s profound gratitude to each of our
Vietnam veterans and their families and caretakers during public
ceremonies and programs throughout the country, while expressing deep
compassion for the families of the fallen, those who remain missing and
unaccounted for, and all others who served yet no longer walk among us.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this

twenty-eighth day of March, in the year of our Lord
two thousand twenty-two, and of the Independence of the United States
of America the two hundred and forty-sixth.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
