---
date: '2022-03-31'
modified_time: 2022-03-31 14:59:25-04:00
published_time: 2022-03-31 14:40:30-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/03/31/a-proclamation-on-the-month-of-the-military-child-2022/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on the Month Of The Military Child,\_2022"
---
 
Each April, the Month of the Military Child provides a chance for us to
recognize and thank the children of our service members and veterans.  I
have always believed that America has a sacred obligation to prepare our
troops when we send them into harm’s way and to support them and their
families both while they are deployed and after they return home.  The
First Lady and I recognize that it is not only those who wear the
uniform that serve our country — it is also their loved ones, and
especially their children.  In the timeless words of the poet John
Milton, “They also serve who only stand and wait.”  
  
Military-connected children shoulder the burdens of service, facing
unique challenges from a young age.  They move frequently with their
families — leaving friends, schools, and communities behind.  They say
goodbye to deploying family members, not knowing when they will see them
again.  Some of these young people endure deployments and separations,
spending months or even years away from their beloved parent.
 Birthdays, holidays, graduations, and other important milestones are
celebrated with just a phone call or virtual hug.  The First Lady and I
witnessed these sacrifices firsthand, when our grandchildren experienced
their father’s deployment to Iraq.  
  
Even after their parent has left the military, children can continue to
face challenges as their parent transitions to civilian life and they
may be called on to care for wounds or injuries their parent suffered
during their service.  Too many live with the pain and loss of a parent
or family member who made the ultimate sacrifice in service to our
country.  
  
This month — and every month — we share our gratitude for these
children.  We recognize the hardships they face and commit to supporting
the physical, social, and emotional health and safety of their families.
 That is why the White House’s Joining Forces initiative, guided by the
First Lady, is focused on supporting the military and veteran families,
caregivers, and survivors.    
  
As a symbol of our support and gratitude to our military children,
during the Month of the Military Child, the Department of Defense uses
the color purple — representing all services in the military community.
 I encourage Americans everywhere to find ways to support our
military-connected children, including by wearing purple to honor their
service.  Let us recommit ourselves to our sacred obligation to provide
our military children and their families with the full support of our
communities and our Government.  
  
NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim April 2022 as the
Month of the Military Child.  I call upon the people of the United
States to honor military children with appropriate ceremonies and
activities.  
  
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirty-first day of
March, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-two, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.  
   

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
