---
tags: presidential-actions
date: '2022-03-18'
modified_time: 2022-03-18 11:18:29-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/03/18/a-proclamation-on-national-poison-prevention-week-2022/
published_time: 2022-03-18 11:18:07-04:00
title: "A Proclamation on National Poison Prevention Week,\_2022"
---
 
Each year, more than 2 million poisoning cases are reported in the
United States — some of which are tragically fatal, but many of which
are preventable.  While we have made great strides in the decades since
National Poison Prevention Week was first observed 60 years ago —
including a decline in unintentional poisoning — poisoning remains a
risk, especially for children and older Americans.  During National
Poison Prevention Week, we raise awareness about the dangers posed by
poisonous substances, precautions people can take to prevent an
incident, and how to respond in a poison emergency.

     Each year, an average of 31 children die from unintended poisonings
at home, and an estimated 75,000 children under the age of five end up
in hospital emergency departments from poisoning.  Approximately 85
percent of unintentional poisonings take place in the home where
medicines and harmful chemicals are stored.

     To prevent children from unintentionally ingesting poisonous
household products, it is important to keep these products out of their
sight and beyond their reach.  Items such as hand sanitizer, laundry
detergent, medications, coin cell batteries, cleaning products, and
liquid nicotine should be stored in child-resistant packaging. 
Medications should be safely secured, and if unused, properly
discarded.  For elderly Americans — particularly those who may have
become isolated due to the pandemic — it is important that household
products are secured in their original packaging and that medications
are clearly labeled to avoid accidental ingestion or the mistaking of
medications.

     Health professionals working around the clock and responding to
millions of calls each year at poison control centers are critical to
our Nation’s response.  They not only help the public in need of
assistance or information, they are also a tremendous asset to health
care providers, health departments, law enforcement, and first
responders.

     If you suspect that you or someone else has been poisoned, do not
wait for signs of poisoning.  Immediately call the Poison Control Help
line at 800-222-1222.  For more information, go to poisonhelp.hrsa.gov.

     Poison awareness, control, and education are essential to saving
lives.  During National Poison Prevention Week, we recommit to raising
awareness about the dangers of accidental poisonings and taking the
necessary precautions to prevent and respond quickly to these incidents
and protect our loved ones.

     To encourage Americans to learn more about the dangers of
unintentional poisonings and to take appropriate preventive measures, on
September 26, 1961, the United States Congress, by joint resolution (75
Stat. 681), authorized and requested the President to issue a
proclamation designating the third week of March each year as “National
Poison Prevention Week.”

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, do hereby proclaim March 20 through March 26, 2022,
to be National Poison Prevention Week.  I call upon all Americans to
observe this week by taking actions to safeguard their families and
friends from poisonous products, chemicals, and medicines often found in
our homes, and to raise awareness of these dangers to prevent accidental
injuries and deaths.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this eighteenth day
of March, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-two, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
