---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2022-03-31'
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/03/31/a-proclamation-on-national-child-abuse-prevention-month-2022/
published_time: 2022-03-31 14:55:21-04:00
title: "A Proclamation on National Child Abuse Prevention Month,\_2022"
---
 
Every child deserves to live in a safe and loving household; yet, for
hundreds of thousands of children across our Nation, abuse and neglect
are a tragic reality.  During National Child Abuse Prevention Month, our
country stands as one to condemn and combat child abuse in all of its
forms — including physical, emotional, and sexual abuse, as well as
online sexual exploitation; we raise awareness about the risk factors
that can lead to child abuse and neglect; and we highlight the
importance of supporting families to prevent child maltreatment.  As a
Nation, we must work together to prevent and address child abuse and
ensure that every child can grow up in a safe environment and live a
happy, prosperous life.

**   **  Child abuse crosses all socioeconomic and educational levels,
religions, and ethnic and cultural backgrounds.  We know that abuse and
neglect negatively impact every aspect and stage of a child’s life.
 Child abuse impacts the ability of students to succeed in school and
often hinders their ability to forge healthy relationships with their
loved ones and peers.  It is associated with involvement in the juvenile
justice system, especially for girls who have experienced sexual abuse. 
One of the most important tools to break the cycle and eliminate the
tragedy of child abuse and neglect is prevention.  This requires that we
support and uplift our communities, families, and individuals so that
our children can be raised in safe, loving, and healthy environments. 
For those children and adolescents who do experience abuse, it is
important to ensure access to trauma-informed services and healing.

     In order to help prevent child abuse and neglect, my Administration
is committed to providing high-quality and equitable support to all
families that need it.  The American Rescue Plan provided cash
assistance to millions of working families and expanded the Child Tax
Credit — which lifted millions of children and families out of poverty. 
It supplied critical funding to support State and community child abuse
prevention and response efforts and authorized an additional $250
million for community-based child abuse prevention programs.  This
additional funding has allowed communities to address the complex
structural issues that contribute to families becoming involved in the
child welfare system.  At a time when families are experiencing elevated
hardships, especially vulnerable families that have been
disproportionately affected by COVID-19, this extra support is more
important than ever.  Also, I was proud to sign into law a bill to help
sustain the Crime Victims Fund, which provides assistance for child
advocacy centers and other programs to address child abuse.

     I was raised to believe that one of the greatest sins is the abuse
of power, and there is no greater abuse of power than the abuse of a
child.  National Child Abuse Prevention Month is an opportunity to take
bold action to better support parents and caregivers with access to
resources to cope during challenging times.  It is also a time to
identify and take the necessary steps to address inequities experienced
by those who have been historically underserved and adversely affected
by continuous poverty and inequality.  Reducing child poverty is
critical to reducing the disproportional representation of low-income
children and families — especially communities of color — in the child
welfare system and foster care.

     Our Nation is also witnessing a cynical and dangerous campaign
waged by some elected leaders who are attempting to weaponize the child
welfare system against families just because they love and affirm their
transgender children.  These leaders have sought to direct child abuse
investigations into families simply because they have provided access to
affirming care for their children.  These discriminatory actions
threaten to hurt our Nation’s children and must stop.  Affirming a
transgender child’s identity is one of the best things that a parent,
teacher, or doctor can do to keep children from harm.  My Administration
will continue to take actions to keep transgender children and their
families safe.  That is why the Department of Health and Human Services
recently released new guidance to State child welfare agencies on how
they can support and affirm LGBTQI+ children who are in foster care.

     During National Child Abuse Prevention Month and throughout the
year, I call upon everyone to stand together against child abuse and
neglect and show our appreciation of the hardworking child-welfare
workforce and allies who are steadfast in their commitment to
strengthening families, protecting children, and combating systemic
inequities.  For more information on how professionals and communities
are supporting families and to learn strategies to advance equity in
child abuse prevention programs, please view the 2021/2022 Prevention
Resource Guide, available at childwelfare.gov.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim April
2022 as National Child Abuse Prevention Month.  I call upon all
Americans to observe this month by joining together as a Nation to
promote the safety and well-being of all children and families and to
recognize the child-welfare workforce and allies who work tirelessly to
protect our children.  And we honor the strength and resilience of adult
survivors of child abuse.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirty-first
day of March, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-two, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.

                            JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
