---
category: presidential-actions
date: '2022-03-31'
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/03/31/a-proclamation-on-adjusting-imports-of-steel-into-the-united-states-2/
published_time: 2022-03-31 17:32:57-04:00
title: A Proclamation on Adjusting Imports of Steel into the United States
---
 
1.  On January 11, 2018, the Secretary of Commerce (Secretary)
transmitted to the President a report on the Secretary’s investigation
into the effect of imports of steel mill articles (steel articles) on
the national security of the United States under section 232 of the
Trade Expansion Act of 1962, as amended (19 U.S.C. 1862).  The Secretary
found and advised the President of his opinion that steel articles are
being imported into the United States in such quantities and under such
circumstances as to threaten to impair the national security of the
United States.  
  
2.  In Proclamation 9705 of March 8, 2018 (Adjusting Imports of Steel
Into the United States), the President concurred in the Secretary’s
finding that steel articles, as defined in clause 1 of Proclamation
9705, as amended by clause 8 of Proclamation 9711 of March 22, 2018
(Adjusting Imports of Steel Into the United States), are being imported
into the United States in such quantities and under such circumstances
as to threaten to impair the national security of the United States, and
decided to adjust the imports of those steel articles by imposing a 25
percent ad valorem tariff on such articles imported from all countries
except Canada and Mexico.  The proclamation further stated that any
country with which we have a security relationship is welcome to discuss
with the United States alternative ways to address the threatened
impairment to the national security caused by imports from that country,
and noted that, should the United States and any such country arrive at
a satisfactory alternative means to address the threat to the national
security such that the President determines that imports from that
country no longer threaten to impair the national security, the
President may remove or modify the restriction on steel articles imports
from that country and, if necessary, adjust the tariff as it applies to
other countries, as the national security interests of the United States
require.  
  
3.  The United States has successfully concluded discussions with Japan
on satisfactory alternative means to address the threatened impairment
to the national security posed by imports of steel articles and
derivative steel articles from Japan.  The United States and Japan have
agreed to expand coordination involving trade remedies and customs
matters, monitor bilateral steel and aluminum trade, cooperate on
addressing non-market excess capacity and carbon intensity in these
sectors, and annually review their arrangement and their ongoing
cooperation.  
  
4.  The United States will implement a number of actions, including a
tariff-rate quota that restricts the quantity of steel articles imported
into the United States from Japan without the application of the tariff
proclaimed in Proclamation 9705.  Under the arrangement, steel articles
that are melted and poured in Japan are eligible for in-quota
treatment.  In my judgment, these measures will provide an effective,
long-term alternative means to address any contribution by Japanese
steel articles imports to the threatened impairment to the national
security by restraining steel articles imports to the United States from
Japan, limiting transshipment, discouraging excess steel capacity and
production, and strengthening the United States-Japan partnership.  In
light of this agreement, I have determined that imports of specified
volumes of eligible steel articles from Japan will no longer threaten to
impair the national security and have decided to exclude such imports
from Japan up to a designated quota from the tariff proclaimed in
Proclamation 9705.  The United States will monitor the implementation
and effectiveness of the tariff-rate quota and other measures agreed
upon with Japan in addressing our national security needs, and I may
revisit this determination, as appropriate.  
  
5.  The alternative means, including the tariff-rate quota, advance the
recommendations contained in the Secretary’s January 2018 report.  The
agreed-upon aggregate tariff-rate quota volume specified in the
agreement between the United States and Japan, totaling 1.25 million
metric tons, is consistent with the objective of reaching and
maintaining a sufficient capacity utilization rate in the domestic steel
industry.  
  
6.  In light of my determination to adjust the tariff proclaimed in
Proclamation 9705 as applied to eligible steel articles imported from
Japan, I have considered whether it is necessary and appropriate in
light of our national security interests to make any corresponding
adjustments to such tariff as it applies to other countries.  I have
determined that it is necessary and appropriate, at this time, to
maintain the current tariff level as it applies to other countries.  
  
7.  Section 232 of the Trade Expansion Act of 1962, as amended,
authorizes the President to adjust the imports of an article and its
derivatives that are being imported into the United States in such
quantities or under such circumstances as to threaten to impair the
national security.  
  
8.  Section 604 of the Trade Act of 1974, as amended (19 U.S.C. 2483),
authorizes the President to embody in the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of
the United States (HTSUS) the substance of statutes affecting import
treatment, and actions thereunder, including the removal, modification,
continuance, or imposition of any rate of duty or other import
restriction.  
  
NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, including section 232 of the Trade
Expansion Act of 1962, as amended, section 301 of title 3, United States
Code, and section 604 of the Trade Act of 1974, as amended, do hereby
proclaim as follows:  
  
(1)  To establish a tariff-rate quota on imports of steel articles from
Japan as set forth in paragraph 4 of this proclamation, U.S. Note 16 of
subchapter III of chapter 99 of the HTSUS is amended as provided for in
the Annex to this proclamation.  Imports of steel articles from Japan in
excess of the tariff-rate quota quantities shall remain subject to the
duties imposed by clause 2 of Proclamation 9705, as amended.  The
Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary of Homeland Security and
the United States Trade Representative, shall recommend to the
President, as warranted, updates to the in-quota volumes contained in
the Annex to this proclamation.  Steel articles from Japan imported
under an exclusion granted pursuant to clause 3 of Proclamation 9705, as
amended, shall count against the in-quota volume of the tariff-rate
quota established in clause 1 of this proclamation.  
  
(2)  Clause 2 of Proclamation 9705, as amended, is revised to read as
follows:    
     “(2)(a) In order to establish certain modifications to the duty
rate on imports of steel articles, subchapter III of chapter 99 of the
HTSUS is modified as provided in the Annex to this proclamation and any
subsequent proclamations regarding such steel articles.  
     (b) Except as otherwise provided in this proclamation, or in
notices published pursuant to clause 3 of this proclamation, all steel
articles imports covered by heading 9903.80.01, in subchapter III of
chapter 99 of the HTSUS, shall be subject to an additional 25 percent ad
valorem rate of duty with respect to goods entered for consumption, or
withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, as follows:  (i) on or after
12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on March 23, 2018, from all countries
except Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, Mexico, South Korea, and
the member countries of the European Union; (ii) on or after 12:01 a.m.
eastern daylight time on June 1, 2018, from all countries except
Argentina, Australia, Brazil, and South Korea; (iii) on or after 12:01
a.m. eastern daylight time on August 13, 2018, from all countries except
Argentina, Australia, Brazil, South Korea, and Turkey; (iv) on or after
12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on May 20, 2019, from all countries
except Argentina, Australia, Brazil, South Korea, and Turkey; (v) on or
after 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on May 21, 2019, from all
countries except Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, Mexico, and South
Korea; (vi) on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern standard time on January 1,
2022, from all countries except Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada,
Mexico, and South Korea, and except the member countries of the European
Union through 11:59 p.m. eastern standard time on December 31, 2023, for
steel articles covered by headings 9903.80.65 through 9903.81.19,
inclusive; and (vii) on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on
April 1, 2022, from all countries except Argentina, Australia, Brazil,
Canada, Mexico, and South Korea, and except the member countries of the
European Union through 11:59 p.m. eastern standard time on December 31,
2023, for steel articles covered by headings 9903.80.65 through
9903.81.19, inclusive, and from Japan, for steel articles covered by
headings 9903.81.25 through 9903.81.80, inclusive.  Further, except as
otherwise provided in notices published pursuant to clause 3 of this
proclamation, all steel articles imports from Turkey covered by heading
9903.80.02, in subchapter III of chapter 99 of the HTSUS, shall be
subject to a 50 percent ad valorem rate of duty with respect to goods
entered for consumption, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on
or after 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on August 13, 2018, and prior
to 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on May 21, 2019.  All steel articles
imports covered by heading 9903.80.61, in subchapter III of chapter 99
of the HTSUS, shall be subject to the additional 25 percent ad valorem
rate of duty established herein with respect to goods entered for
consumption, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after
12:01 a.m. eastern time on the date specified in a determination by the
Secretary granting relief.  These rates of duty, which are in addition
to any other duties, fees, exactions, and charges applicable to such
imported steel articles, shall apply to imports of steel articles from
each country as specified in the preceding three sentences.”  
  
(3)  The first two sentences of clause 1 of Proclamation 9980 of January
24, 2020 (Adjusting Imports of Derivative Aluminum Articles and
Derivative Steel Articles Into the United States), are revised to read
as follows:  
“In order to establish increases in the duty rate on imports of certain
derivative articles, subchapter III of chapter 99 of the HTSUS is
modified as provided in Annex I and Annex II to this
proclamation.  Except as otherwise provided in this proclamation, all
imports of derivative aluminum articles specified in Annex I to this
proclamation shall be subject to an additional 10 percent ad valorem
rate of duty, and all imports of derivative steel articles specified in
Annex II to this proclamation shall be subject to an additional 25
percent ad valorem rate of duty, with respect to goods entered for
consumption, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, as
follows:  (i) on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern standard time on February
8, 2020, these rates of duty, which are in addition to any other duties,
fees, exactions, and charges applicable to such imported derivative
aluminum articles or steel articles, shall apply to imports of
derivative aluminum articles described in Annex I to this proclamation
from all countries except Argentina, the Commonwealth of Australia
(Australia), Canada, and the United Mexican States (Mexico) and to
imports of derivative steel articles described in Annex II to this
proclamation from all countries except Argentina, Australia, Brazil,
Canada, Mexico, and South Korea; (ii) on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern
standard time on January 1, 2022, these rates of duty, which are in
addition to any other duties, fees, exactions, and charges applicable to
such imported derivative aluminum articles or steel articles, shall
apply to imports of derivative aluminum articles described in Annex I to
this proclamation from all countries except Argentina, Australia,
Canada, the member countries of the European Union, and Mexico and to
imports of derivative steel articles described in Annex II to this
proclamation from all countries except Argentina, Australia, Brazil,
Canada, the member countries of the European Union, Mexico, and South
Korea; and (iii) on or after 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on April
1, 2022, these rates of duty, which are in addition to any other duties,
fees, exactions, and charges applicable to such imported derivative
aluminum articles or steel articles, shall apply to imports of
derivative aluminum articles described in Annex I to this proclamation
from all countries except Argentina, Australia, Canada, the member
countries of the European Union, and Mexico and to imports of derivative
steel articles described in Annex II to this proclamation from all
countries except Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, the member
countries of the European Union, Japan, Mexico, and South Korea.”   
  
(4)  Steel eligible for treatment under clause 1 of this proclamation
must be melted and poured in Japan in order to receive such
treatment.  The Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary of
Homeland Security and the United States Trade Representative, is
authorized to take such actions as are necessary to ensure compliance
with this requirement.  Failure to comply could result in applicable
remedies such as the collection of the tariff set forth in clause 2 of
Proclamation 9705, or penalties under United States law.  
  
(5)  The modifications to the HTSUS made by clause 1 of this
proclamation shall be effective with respect to goods entered for
consumption, or withdrawn from warehouse for consumption, on or after
12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on April 1, 2022, and shall continue in
effect, unless such actions are expressly reduced, modified, or
terminated.  
  
(6)  Any imports of steel articles from Japan that were admitted into a
U.S. foreign trade zone under “privileged foreign status” as defined in
19 CFR 146.41, prior to 12:01 a.m. eastern daylight time on April 1,
2022, shall be subject upon entry for consumption made on or after 12:01
a.m. eastern daylight time on April 1, 2022, to the provisions of the
tariff‑rate quota in effect at the time of the entry for consumption.  
  
(7)  Any provision of previous proclamations and Executive Orders that
is inconsistent with the actions taken in this proclamation is
superseded to the extent of such inconsistency.  
  
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirty-first day of
March, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-two, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
