---
date: '2022-03-31'
modified_time: 2022-03-31 17:00:49-04:00
published_time: 2022-03-31 14:11:05-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/03/31/memorandum-on-presidential-determination-pursuant-to-section-303-of-the-defense-production-act-of-1950-as-amended/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "Memorandum on Presidential Determination Pursuant to Section 303 of the Defense\
  \ Production Act of 1950, as\_amended"
---
 
Presidential Determination  
No.        2022-11

MEMORANDUM FOR THE SECRETARY OF DEFENSE  
  
SUBJECT:       Presidential Determination Pursuant to Section 303 of the
Defense Production Act of 1950, as amended  
  
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, including section 303 of the
Defense Production Act of 1950, as amended (the “Act”) (50 U.S.C. 4533),
it is hereby ordered:  
  
Section 1.  Policy.  It is the policy of my Administration that ensuring
a robust, resilient, sustainable, and environmentally responsible
domestic industrial base to meet the requirements of the clean energy
economy, such as the production of large-capacity batteries, is
essential to our national security and the development and preservation
of domestic critical infrastructure.  
  
The United States depends on unreliable foreign sources for many of the
strategic and critical materials necessary for the clean energy
transition — such as lithium, nickel, cobalt, graphite, and manganese
for large-capacity batteries.  Demand for such materials is projected to
increase exponentially as the world transitions to a clean energy
economy.  
  
To promote the national defense, the United States must secure a
reliable and sustainable supply of such strategic and critical
materials.  The United States shall, to the extent consistent with the
promotion of the national defense, secure the supply of such materials
through environmentally responsible domestic mining and processing;
recycling and reuse; and recovery from unconventional and secondary
sources, such as mine waste.

These actions shall be conducted, to the extent consistent with the
promotion of the national defense and applicable law, with strong
environmental, sustainability, safety, labor, Tribal consultation, and
impacted community engagement standards, to rebuild and maintain
American expertise and productive capacity in these critical sectors.  
  
Sec. 2.  Determination.  (a)  I hereby determine, pursuant to section
303(a)(5) of the Act, that:  
  
          (1)  sustainable and responsible domestic mining,
beneficiation, and value-added processing of strategic and critical
materials for the production of large-capacity batteries for the
automotive, e-mobility, and stationary storage sectors are essential to
the national defense;  
  
          (2)  without Presidential action under section 303 of the Act,
United States industry cannot reasonably be expected to provide the
capability for these needed industrial resources, materials, or critical
technology items in a timely manner; and  
  
          (3)  purchases, purchase commitments, or other action pursuant
to section 303 of the Act are the most cost-effective, expedient, and
practical alternative method for meeting the need.  
  
     (b)  Consistent with section 303(a)(1) of the Act, the Secretary of
Defense shall create, maintain, protect, expand, or restore sustainable
and responsible domestic production capabilities of such strategic and
critical materials by supporting feasibility studies for mature mining,
beneficiation, and value-added processing projects; by-product and
co-product production at existing mining, mine waste reclamation, and
other industrial facilities; mining, beneficiation, and value-added
processing modernization to increase productivity, environmental
sustainability, and workforce safety; and any other such activities
authorized under section 303(a)(1) of the Act.  
  
     (c)  In the execution of projects to create, maintain, protect,
expand, or restore sustainable and responsible domestic production
capabilities of such strategic and critical materials consistent with
section 303(a)(1) of the Act, the Secretary of Defense shall consult
with the Secretary of the Interior, the Secretary of Agriculture, the
Secretary of Energy, and the heads of other executive departments and
agencies (agencies) as appropriate.  
  
     (d)  Further, pursuant to section 303(a)(7)(B) of the Act, I find
that action to expand the domestic production capabilities for such
strategic and critical materials is necessary to avert an industrial
resource or critical technology item shortfall that would severely
impair the national defense capability.  Therefore, I waive the
requirements of section 303(a)(1)–(a)(6) of the Act for the purpose of
expanding the sustainable and responsible domestic mining,
beneficiation, and value-added processing of strategic and critical
materials necessary for the production of large-capacity batteries for
the automotive, e-mobility, and stationary storage sectors.  
  
Sec. 3.  Annual Report to the President and the Congress by the
Secretary of Defense.  (a)  The Secretary of Defense, in consultation
with the heads of other agencies as appropriate, shall conduct a survey
of the domestic industrial base for the mining, beneficiation, and
value-added processing of strategic and critical materials for the
production of large-capacity batteries for the automotive, e-mobility,
and stationary storage sectors.  Such survey shall assess whether
conditions continue to warrant the use of the authority under section
303 of the Act.  
  
     (b)  Consistent with the designation under section 309 of Executive
Order 13603 of March 16, 2012 (National Defense Resources Preparedness),
the Secretary of Defense shall include the survey stated in section 3(a)
of this determination in the annual report to the Congress required by
section 304(f) of the Act, and also shall submit such report to the
President.  
  
Sec. 4.  Limitations.  Nothing in this determination shall be construed
to waive or supersede the requirement for mines or other industrial
facilities to comply with all Federal and State permitting requirements
and environmental health and safety laws.  
  
Sec. 5.  General Provisions.  (a)  Nothing in this determination shall
be construed to impair or otherwise affect:  
  
          (i)   the authority granted by law to an executive department
or agency, or the head thereof; or  
  
          (ii)  the functions of the Director of the Office of
Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or
legislative proposals.  
  
     (b)  This determination shall be implemented consistent with
applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.  
  
     (c)  This determination is not intended to, and does not, create
any right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or
in equity by any party against the United States, its departments,
agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other
person.  
  
     (d)  You are authorized and directed to publish this determination
in the *Federal Register*.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
