---
tags: presidential-actions
date: '2022-03-24'
modified_time: 2022-03-24 21:00:36-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/03/24/greek-independence-day-a-national-day-of-celebration-of-greek-and-american-democracy-2022/
published_time: 2022-03-24 17:54:42-04:00
title: "Greek Independence Day: A National Day of Celebration of Greek and American\
  \ Democracy,\_2022"
---
 
BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

A PROCLAMATION

In forming a Government that reflected the burgeoning spirit of America
and united our young Nation around the core principles of liberty,
justice, and the rule of law, our Founders looked to the birthplace of
democracy — Greece.  Decades after the American Revolution, the people
of Greece came together to bravely affirm their commitment to democracy
and declare their own independence from the Ottoman Empire.  Today, as
we mark the anniversary of Greek independence, we honor our countries’
deep and historic bond — forged in the struggle for liberty and
self-governance — and the many contributions of the modern Hellenic
Republic which promote international peace and stability and uphold our
shared values.

     The Greek bicentennial in 2021 was a year of celebration for
Greece, for the Greek American community, and for the strong bilateral
relationship between our two nations.  The seeds of friendship planted
long ago continue to bear fruit for both our people, with Greece and the
United States standing together to defend democracy around the world.  A
crucial ally in the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, Greece promotes
peace and prosperity in the Eastern Mediterranean, Black Sea, and
Western Balkans regions, and the United States is grateful for Greece’s
continuing hospitality to the United States Naval Support Activity Souda
Bay on Crete. 

     Greece and the United States are standing together to confront the
challenges of our time, from meeting the climate crisis and diversifying
the region’s energy resources to proving that democracies deliver for
our people and pushing back against the growing threat of
authoritarianism.  Through our ongoing Strategic Dialogue, Greece and
the United States have increased cooperation across a range of critical
issues, and last year’s update to our Mutual Defense Cooperation
Agreement will boost our defense and security cooperation for years to
come.

     The deep political and historical bonds that unite Greece and the
United States are further reinforced by strong ties of family and
affection and by the estimated 3 million Americans of Greek descent
across our Nation.  Throughout my career, I have seen firsthand the
courage and determination of the Greek American community, and these
qualities have been an invaluable source of strength to our Nation over
the past year.  Greek Americans have been at the forefront of the fight
against the COVID-19 pandemic and our efforts to vaccinate the
world.  And last November, as Greek Americans proudly celebrated the
construction of the Saint Nicholas Greek Orthodox Church and National
Shrine in Manhattan 20 years after the original church structure had
been destroyed in the September 11th terrorist attacks, they embodied
our shared values of perseverance, resilience, and hope for the future. 

     As Greece and the United States look forward to what the next 200
years of partnership will bring, I am confident that our nations and our
people will meet every challenge together.  On this day, we recommit to
the hard work ahead, to fortifying our democracies, and to reaffirming
our ironclad friendship.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim March
25, 2022, as Greek Independence Day:  A National Day of Celebration of
Greek and American Democracy.  I call upon the people of the United
States to observe this day with appropriate ceremonies and activities.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-fourth
day of March, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-two, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
