---
category: press-briefings
date: '2022-03-14'
modified_time: 2022-03-14 22:01:44-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2022/03/14/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-jen-psaki-march-14-2022/
published_time: 2022-03-14 22:01:43-04:00
title: Press Briefing by Press Secretary Jen Psaki, March 14, 2022
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

3:25 P.M. EDT  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Hi, everyone.  
  
Q    Hello.  Good to see you.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Good to see you.  Okay, I have nothing at the top for you.  
  
Josh, what is on your mind?  
  
Q    Thanks, Jen.  Two questions.  First, after the Rome meeting, since
the war began, has China provided any military or economic aid to Russia
or expressed any specific intentions to do so?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I’m not in a position to confirm or detail any intelligence
from here at this point in time.   
  
Q    Okay.  Moving on to the Russia-Ukraine talks: What does the U.S.
see that would be a sign for optimism that some kind of ceasefire could
be reached?  And which carrots and which sticks do you think Putin is
most responding to, if that’s the case —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  
  
Q    — most likely to respond to?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  Well, as you’ve heard us say in the past, we
certainly will continue to support the Ukrainian participation in these
talks and conversations as long as they choose to continue to
participate in them, of course.  And we are trying to boost them by
providing a range of not just economic and humanitarian assistance, but
military assistance that we believe strengshens — strenghens —
strengthens — excuse me — their positions in these talks.    
  
Our view continues to be that, despite words that are said in these
talks or coming out of these talks, diplomacy requires engaging in good
faith to de-escalate.  And what we’re really looking for is evidence of
that.  And we’re not seeing any evidence, at this point, that President
Putin is doing anything to stop the onslaught or de-escalate.  But that
is really what we would be looking for.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you, Jen.  To follow up on the Rome meeting, what are the
consequences for China if they do aid Russia?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I’m not going to get into specific consequences.  I
think what we have conveyed and what was conveyed by our National
Security Advisor in this meeting is that should they provide military or
other assistance that, of course, violates sanctions or supports the war
effort, that there will be significant consequences.   
  
But in terms of what the specifics look like, we would coordinate with
our partners and allies to make that determination.  
  
Q    Okay.  But Jake Sullivan certainly communicated that there would be
consequences?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yes, as we have also said publicly a number of times.  
  
Q    Okay.  And then, is there anything you can share about the
President’s potential meeting — potential trip to Europe in the next
couple of weeks?  Who he might be meeting with and really what the point
would be of going to Europe?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  Well, we are, of course, closely engaged with our
NATO partners and European allies, as you heard us say a number of
times, about the next steps in diplomacy, whether that’s providing
additional humanitarian or security assistance or the mechanics for
future conversations.   
  
But there’s not been any final decision about a trip, so I don’t have
anything to preview about what that would look like if he were to take a
trip.  
  
Q    Okay.  Thanks, Jen.

MS. PSAKI:  Go ahead.   
  
Q    Thanks, Jen.  The President said back in February that the U.S.
would respond forcefully if Americans were targeted in Ukraine.  Brent
Renaud was killed over the weekend.  One of my colleagues was injured
today.  We’re still waiting to hear if he’s okay.  So what is that
response going to look like?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, let me first say: Your colleague, Benjamin Hall — I
know there’s not final reports yet or we would wait for your news
organization to confirm those — but our thoughts, the President’s
thoughts, our administration’s thoughts are with him, his family, and
all of you at Fox News as well.   
  
In terms of specific actions, I think you have seen the President lead
the world in taking — putting in place consequence — consequences,
putting in place repercussions and steps in response to the actions of
Russia — the brutal actions that have certainly impacted Ukrainian
people and now have certainly impacted some Americans.   
  
But in terms of next steps or what the next consequence would be, I
don’t have anything to preview for you at this point in time.  
  
Q    But we’ve seen the President been, so far, unwilling to draw a red
line on the kinds of atrocities that we’re going to watch from the
sidelines.  We’ve seen maternity wards being bombed, illegal weapons
being used, pediatric hospitals being targeted.  
  
President Obama drew the red line for Syria at chemical weapons.  So is
there any thought process about what we’re willing to watch happen
before there’s —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, Jacqui, I think it’s important to reiterate as often
as we can that what we’re seeing is horrific, what we’re seeing is
barbaric.  And the steps that the President has taken and led the world
in taking have essentially led the Russian financial system to be on the
brink of collapse.  We have provided more military assistance to the
Ukrainian military and the Ukrainian government than any other country
in the world and more historic assistance than any other year to Ukraine
in history.  And we’re doing that so that we can support them in this
difficult moment.   
  
So I would say that, at this moment in time, we have been hardly on the
sidelines.  We have been leading this effort around the world to respond
to every step and every escalatory step that President Putin and the
Russians are taking.  
  
Q    But isn’t there a concern that if we don’t draw the line at
something like chemical weapons, that it’ll make it easier for malign
actors to use them in the future, because they’ll just go unpunished?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, Jacqui, I think that you heard the President say on
Friday that there would be severe consequences and the world would
respond if they were to use chemical weapons.    
  
And what we have been doing over the course of the last several weeks,
if not months, is providing as much information to the global community,
to the media, and to others about what to expect.    
  
And when you have President Putin suggesting — and Russian — Russian
officials suggesting that the United States and Ukrainians are the ones
who are working on a chemical weapons program, it’s clear that this is a
pattern that we’ve seen in the past of them trying to set up a predicate
for their own actions.   
  
Q    But what does — what does that end up looking like if the world
responds?  Because so far, we’ve heard the President talk a lot about
what the U.S. is not going to do, in terms of, you know, not wanting to
trigger war with a nuclear power.  But do we believe that Putin is, you
know, a rational kind of person who, you know, would pay attention to
something like that?  I mean, he didn’t need provocation to, you know,
invade Ukraine.  Why wouldn’t we think that he would just create a
pretext that is fabricated for something like that?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  We do.  That’s why we’ve talked about it.   
  
And I think, Jacqui, what’s important here is — and then I’m just going
to move on to get to more people — is that for any President, you have
to weigh how you can lead the world, how you can make very clear that
actions are horrific, that they are not acceptable, they’re not aligned
with global norms, while also thinking about our own national security
interests.  And starting World War Three is certainly not in our
national security interests.  Putting U.S. troops on the ground in
Ukraine to fight a war with Russia is not in our national security
interests.   
  
Go ahead.   
  
Q    I do have one — one quick —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I just have to move on because I — otherwise I’m not going
to get to other people.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    It’s a follow-up to what you had said though about misinformation
and Twitter.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  
  
Q    Because, last year, the President worked with Twitter specifically
to address misinformation on vaccines, called it a “wartime effort.” 
Has there been any conversations with Twitter to address misinformation
as it pertains to chemical attacks and that kind of thing, given that
the — you know, Russia has banned this platform within the country and
they’re using it to, obviously, target eyes outside of the country,
including within the U.S., to spread propaganda and misinformation?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  We were the ones who told you all about that.  
  
I agree.  I don’t have anything to read out for you in terms of private
conversations with Twitter or any other social platform.  But I’m happy
to check and see if there’s more.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Back on the Rome talks.  Have you seen any — or did you — your
colleagues see in this meeting any sign that China got the message, that
they are going to heed your warnings?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, what we’re going to be watching closely, of course, is
actions.  So beyond that, I think, as my colleagues just — just read out
for you in a call that we delayed the briefing slightly to make sure you
could all participate in: It was an intense seven-hour session
reflecting the gravity of the moment.  And it was an opportunity to be
very clear about what you’ve heard our National Security Advisor convey
publicly but more directly about what the consequences would be.   
  
Q    And, you know, your colleagues have said that your deep concerns
were conveyed about what would happen if China were to align more
closely with Russia.  Just, big picture: If China does not heed the
U.S.’s warnings, if they do move forward with this, how concerned are
you that this is inching closer to the world war that the President has
been warning of?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think what we’re looking at here — one is: If China
were to decide to be an economic provider, or to take additional steps,
there to Russia, they only make up 15 percent or 20 — 15 to 20 percent
of the world’s economy.  The G7 countries make up more than 50 percent. 
So there are a range of tools at our disposal in coordination with our
European partners should we need to use them.  
  
But, again, we are — don’t have anything to update you on in terms of an
assessment.  This is obviously an area we’re watching closely.   
  
While this meeting has been planned for some time as a follow-up from
the November call that pres- — the President had with President Xi, it
was a timely — an important moment to have this conversation, especially
given the reports we’ve seen and — and the invasion, of course, of
Ukraine.   
  
Go ahead.  Oh, one more?  Go ahead..  
  
Q    Just one quick follow-up, actually, to Jacqui’s questions —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  
  
Q    — about chemical weapons.  You know, the President, as you noted,
said on Friday that Russia would pay a severe price.  What would that
price look like?  Are we talking in the realm of more sanctions?  Can
you give us sort of any big picture about what that would entail?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  That would be a conversation that we would have with our
partners around the world.   
  
But there’s no question if Russia were to decide to use chemical
weapons, there would be a severe reaction from the global community.  
  
Go ahead.   
  
Q    So when you talk about, kind of, the possibilities for China if
they don’t go along with what you’ve asked, would you say, like you’ve
said with Russia, that “everything is on the table,” including ending
trade negotiations, sanctions?  Is that all on the table?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I’m just not going to be in a position to detail it further
from here.  We’ll see.  We’ll keep having this conversation over the
coming days.  
  
Q    But you won’t do nothing if China decides to provide military
support?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  We’ve been clear there would be consequences.   
  
Q    And that you would — you all would initiate?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yes.  
  
Q    Okay.  And then, what’s kind of your end — thinking about what an
endgame looks like, as far as these conversations with China, do you
want them to shift their strategic priorities and not have a
relationship with Russia that it does now?  Or are you looking for
something more modest?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  It’s less about changing their mind and more about making
clear with them what the consequences would be should they take
additional actions to support this invasion.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Go ahead.  
  
Q    On the additional $200 million in security assistance —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — the President signed off on this past weekend, an official said
that part of it would go to anti-armor and anti-aircraft systems.  I
know the Pentagon says it’s still kind of in process right now.  Are
these — are we talking about weapon systems that have already been
delivered, or is there consideration of new types of weapon systems in
this tranche of funding?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  It’s a good question, Phil.  My understanding — and just to
give you all more detail: This weekend, as I think you all saw it, we
announced — and I think this is why you’re asking — the President
authorized an additional $200 million of security assistance, which
utilizes the maximum amount of funding available to provide Ukrainians
with the type of weapons they are using so effectively.  

It’s really a continuity, as I understand it — let me double check this
for you — of the type of weapons that they have been using very
effectively on the ground to push back on Russia, both in the air and on
the ground.  

So that includes, as you — as you noted, anti-armor, anti-tank, and air
defense capabilities and ammunition of other types, and other types of
assistance to address the armored, airborne, and other threats that they
are facing.

But my understanding, Phil, is it’s a continuation of the types of
security assistance that we have been providing.  And, of course, the
President is looking forward to — there’s a significant amount of
funding, as I think you all have noted, in the omnibus for Ukraine,
which would enable us to provide even additional assistance to add to
that package.  

Q    Okay.  And then just a quick follow-up to one of Josh’s questions. 
The Deputy Secretary of State this weekend said, quote, she’d seen some
signs of “willingness to have real, serious negotiations.”  I think that
differed a little bit from what we’ve heard from officials about the
Russian posture up to this point.  

Can you elaborate on what the signs may have been — may have been seen
in terms of giving the Deputy Secretary of State that view of things?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, she also said that they would have to back any words
with actions, essentially, which I think is an important context. 
Right?  

They did have talks today.  There have been reports that they will have
additional talks.  We’ve been very appreciative of the efforts of our
allies — France, Germany, Israel, and Turkey, and others — to be
participants in these talks at times or engage in these talks at
times.  

But, again, diplomacy requires both sides engaging in good faith and to
deescalate.  And what we’re really looking for is specific delivery of
actions.

I think it’s important to remember that there have been five or six
attempts to implement a humanitarian corridor.  Those have not been
effective.  Those have not worked.  You’ve seen, through video footage
and others’ reports, that those — that has not been abided by.  So that
is where we are keeping our eye and focus.  

Go ahead, Kelly.  

Q    Do you get a sense that as this conflict with Russia and Ukraine is
happening, that other actors that are adversaries to the United States —
China, Iran, North Korea — are also testing the West, with China’s work
with Russia, as you’re dealing with that, perhaps with Taiwan; Iran with
its rockets; North Korea also showing its provocative nature?

Is there a test of the West coming from some of the adversaries of the
United States?

MS. PSAKI:  We have not assessed those to be related, as you have said. 
I mean, if you look at the Iran — the missile strike that we saw over
the weekend, no U.S. facilities were hit, no personnel were harmed.  We
were not the targets of that.  

We’ve obviously seen tests and information we put out publicly as it
relates to North Korea.  We’ve seen dozens of tests over the course of
past administrations as well.  So I would say we are not assessing it
through those — that prism.

Q    Has the administration reached out to American companies that have
property, infrastructure in Russia — to expect that to be nationalized
by Russia and to lose those assets in Russia?

MS. PSAKI:  We have been, of course, engaged with U.S. companies — not
encouraging them; obviously, we’ve — publicly applauding them.  But
they’re going to make their own decisions as private sector
companies.   
  
We’ve also conveyed, as we did publicly, I think on Friday, that there
would be — we would certainly look to consequences should that happen.

Go ahead.

Q    The former White House COVID Advisor, Andy Slavitt, has a Twitter
thread today in which he talks about the potential for an increase in
COVID cases this spring.  He says, “Based on European case increases,
the U.S. could see a new rise in COVID cases…”  Are you confident the
administration has the real-time data it needs to provide the best
information possible to the public?

MS. PSAKI:  To pr- — to assess data?

Q    Yes.

MS. PSAKI:  Yes, we are.  I would note that — I did not see his tread —
his thread, but let me note — and I’m not sure if it was related to the
BA.2 variant.  Was it related to the BA.2 variant?

Q    Yes.

MS. PSAKI:  Okay.  What we do know about the BA.2 variant, which I think
is important context for people, is that it’s circulated in the United
States for some time.  We’ve been watching it closely, of course.  We
currently have about 35,000 cases in this country.  We expect some
fluctuation, especially at this relatively low level, and, certainly,
that to increase.  

I would also note that while BA.2 is more transmissi- — is a more
transmissible version of Omicron, the tools we have — including mRNA
vaccines, therapeutics, and tests — are all effective tools against the
virus.  And we know because it’s been in the country.  

And so, as we’re watching, and I think a lot of the reporting has been
about, of course, the UK but also China.  And China has a zero-tolerance
policy, as you all know, but they also did not conduct their vaccination
and booster campaigns with mRNA vaccine.  So that is important context,
too, as you’re seeing the impact.  

What I would note, just to go back to your earlier part of your
question, is that we are still pressing — the place where it is
concerning is the fact that we need additional COVID funding.  And we
have talked about this — we talked about this a little bit in the past,
but — last week — all running together.   
  
But — but without COVID response resources and additional money, there
could be immediate impacts on testing capacity; the uninsured fund,
which offers coverage of testing and treatments for tens of millions of
Americans who lack health insurance; and on our supply of monoclonal
antibodies.  And that means that some programs, if we don’t get funding,
could abruptly end or need to be pared back.  And that could impact how
we are able to respond to any variant, of course.

Q    I do just want to ask you one more — 

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.

Q    — quick question.

Q    We noticed the President, when he came on stage today at the
Marriott, had a mask on.  Is that something he has been advised to do,
or is that something he just feels more comfortable doing?

MS. PSAKI:  Often he does that when it’s required by a specific event,
as he did when he went to Texas last week.  I can certainly check on
that.  He was tested yesterday and tested negative.  

Go ahead.  

Q    Thanks, Jen.  So, on Ukraine, the President has made clear that he
sort of has a red line with Russia, in terms of not wanting to do
anything that would get into a direct confrontation or lead to World War
Three, as he puts it.  

I’m curious — I know you’re not sharing specifics, but in broad strokes,
does he have a similar red line now with China assisting Russia?  And
are — is the — does he not want to get into a direct confrontation with
China?  And are there certain things he’s not willing to do because of
that?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Let me see if I can answer your question, but tell me if I’m
not.   
  
We don’t like red lines around here, so I’m not going to use that
phrasing.  But you are obviously correct that what he is — he’s been
very clear and consistent about his — that he does not have the
intention of sending U.S. troops to Ukraine.  That has not changed.  

I would look at — while we are certainly watching closely the actions of
China, whether — whether that is support of any kind — in support of any
kind for Russia, and certainly there would be consequences to that — I
do think we look at it through a slightly different prism.  I mean,
Russia is invading Ukraine actively.  So, I’m not — but I’m not sure if
I’m answering your question or not.  

Q    Well, sort of.  Just to follow up, I mean — right, no ground troops
in Ukraine, but also, there have been other things, such as not
enforcing a no-fly zone or not providing the fighter jets —

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.

Q    — that the President has been reluctant to do.  So, again, you said
you’re not sharing specifics.  You said Jake Sullivan said “significant
consequences” for the Chinese.  But I’m wondering if there are certain
things that you will not consider because it could lead to a direct
confrontation with China that you’re reluctant to get into, the same way
you are with Russia.

MS. PSAKI:  I just think we look at it slightly differently.  I mean,
what I’m talking — what we — why the President has been so clear about
not sending U.S. troops is obviously because that would be a military
conflict.  We’re not fighting, obviously, in a — there’s no military
conflict at this moment with China, nor do we — nor are we predicting
that.  So I think we just — it’s slightly different.

Q    And one just on a —

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.

Q    — different topic.  How high is the administration expecting gas
prices to go?  And how much — is there a limit — not a red line but a
limit at what you think — (laughter) — the U.S. public can bear?

MS. PSAKI:  Just flows off the tongue.  (Laughs.)  It’s okay.  
  
So it’s a good question.  We don’t have — I don’t have a prediction from
here, in terms of what it could look like.  There are outside
predictors, of course.  And, obviously, what we’re trying to do is
mitigate the impact.  You know, and you’ve seen, of course, you know,
the price of oil go down a little bit.  And the President will continue
to look at a range of steps that he can take, whether it is engaging
through his team, or through even himself personally, with big global
producers, or it is looking at a range of domestic options.  

But we’ve seen it go up.  I mean, we look at a lot of the same data you
look at — AAA and other data — that shows us how much it has gone up
since the period of time when Russian troops lined up on the border.  

But in terms of how far — you know, we still believe it will continue to
go up, but we’re trying to take steps we can take to mitigate that and
reduce it.  

Go ahead, Mara.

Q    Thank you.  I understand you don’t want to lay out what the severe
consequences would be if Russia used chemical weapons, but I guess what
I’m confused about is we know there’s not going to be any U.S. troops,
no jets, no no-fly zone.  Other than the things you’ve already done,
which you have already described as severe, could you give us some
examples of what more you can do since you’ve ruled out all these
things? 

Just — when you talk about severe consequences, what does that mean,
given that we know what it doesn’t mean?

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  I —

Q    Yeah.

MS. PSAKI:  I understand your question.  I’m just not going to outline
that from here.  Those are conversations that will happen — continue to
happen with our national security team and with our partners and allies
around the world.

Q    But what you’re asking us to believe is that there are severe
consequences that you haven’t used yet but that are not on the “no”
list?

MS. PSAKI:  Correct.

Q    Okay.  But you won’t tell us what kinds of things those might be?

MS. PSAKI:  We’re going to have those conversations privately through
our national security team and with our partners around the world.  

Q    Okay.  But — but do you — I guess what I’m wondering — what about
the argument that there just aren’t any more severe consequences for you
to use because most of the severe ones you’ve ruled out?

MS. PSAKI:  That’s inaccurate.

Q    Okay.

MS. PSAKI:  Go ahead.    
  
Q    Just on the Fed nominations —

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.

Q    Nice try, Mara.

Q    — does the White House have any assurances from any Republican
senators that they would support Sarah Bloom Raskin’s nomination?  And
did Senator Manchin give the President or anyone in the administration a
heads up about his opposition to her — to her nomination?  I’m trying to
figure out if that was a surprise.

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  I understand your question.  We were aware of his
position in advance of his — of Senator Manchin’s announcement.  We are
— she is one of the most qualified individuals to ever be nominated to
this position.  And so where we are now is — our focus is on continuing
to work with Chairman — Chairman Brown to garner bipartisan support. 
But I don’t have anything to read out for you on that front at this
point.

Q    How did Senator Manchin make you aware that — of his opposition? 
Was there a call to someone in the White House?   Did the President
know?  What did that look like today?

MS. PSAKI:  I’m just not going to detail more specifics.  

Q    Okay.  And just one last question, if you don’t mind.   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yep.  
  
Q    How is the administration preparing to respond to the potential
supplies chain shock — excuse me — posed by China’s decision to lock
down the tech production hub in Shenzhen?  

MS. PSAKI:  So we are, of course, monitoring this incredibly closely,
and our team is quite focused on it.  What I will say is that, because
of the steps we’ve taken and a number of steps we’ve taken to better —
better prepare and strengthen the supply chain, you know, we — we feel
that that has helped us — will help us sustain.  

But in terms of — right now, we’re basically in the stage where we’re
monitoring with the State Department.  What we’re looking at is, of
course, as you know, the impact on some of these ports around where —
the impacted areas of China.  

And we know here that, of course, our Port Action Plan and the work of
our Supply Chain Disruptions Task Force, that we have a strong inventory
that we can rely on.  It’s about 90 percent of goods at groceries and
drugstores are in stock currently. And we’ve also reduced the number of
import containers sitting at the docks for over nine days by over 60
percent.    
  
But in terms of specific impacts of ports in China, we’re monitoring it,
and we don’t have a new assessment at this — in additi- — up-to-date
assessment, I should say, at this point in time.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Jen.  Is it the U.S. assessment, just to be clear, that
Russia is deliberately targeting civilians in Ukraine?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, this is part of our assessment and review as we’re
looking at how we’re — whether we will designate as a war crime.  And we
look at this through a legal process internally.  Obviously, the
targeting of civilians — and we have seen a range of very concerning
video reports — other would be categorized in that — through that as —
in that phrasing, but we have a process that we’re still working through
here.  
  
Q    And then, last week at a briefing, you told us that us, as
reporters, should, quote, “not focus a lot” of our conversations “about
the future of the United States importing oil at this point…from
Venezuela.”  Were you ruling out that the U.S. would import oil from
Venezuela (inaudible)?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I was saying it’s not an active conversation at this time.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Hi, thanks.  Does the White House have any reaction to Ginni Thomas
acknowledging that she attended the January 6th rally?    
  
MS. PSAKI:  I do not.  
  
Q    And just kind of on that: Does her attendance there raise any kind
of concerns about the independence of the Supreme Court, potential
conflicts of interest, anything like that?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I just don’t have any more comment on it at this point in
time.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Hi, Jen.  For the second time in two weeks, a group of hundreds of
Haitian migrants has landed by boat in the Florida Keys.  Given the
surge we saw last year in Del Rio of Haitian migration, what is the
administration’s reaction to these landings?  Are there any plans to
send any assistance either to Haiti or Florida?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I’m sure we can get you an update on the humanitarian
assistance we provide directly to Haiti.  We are the largest, if not one
of the largest, providers of humanitarian assistance in the world.  In
terms of the individuals arriving, I think in Florida, as you said —  
  
Q    Yeah, the Florida Keys.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  — I would really point you to the Department of Homeland
Security.  We are still applying Title 42, and so that applies no matter
which country you’re coming from.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Hi, yeah.  The President of Colombia said last week that he had
offered President Biden the possibility of supplying more Colombian oil
to the U.S. as an alternative to Venezuelan oil.  Is that an option that
the White House is considering?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  We are continuing to talk to a range of producers on the
importance of maintaining global supply.  This is not, as you know,
about just the supply in the U.S. but about ensuring there is supply for
the global market.  And we do appreciate our partnership with Colombia. 
And President Biden did discuss a range of issues like economic
recovery, energy security during their conversation.  But beyond that, I
don’t have an update on what that might look like.  
  
Q    Would you say that it is under active consideration as —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Again, they had a — they had a wide-ranging conversation, a
very constructive conversation.  This is really about supply in the
global markets.  But I don’t have an update at this point in time.  
  
Q    Yeah.  And as a follow-up, Chevron is preparing to take operating
control of its joint ventures in Venezuela — Reuters just reported that
— in case the U.S. would grant them a special license to operate.  Is
that something that’s on the table?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I think I just answered it a few minutes ago.  
  
Go ahead.  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Oh, yeah.  Thanks, Jen.  You said earlier in the press briefing
that nothing has been decided about President Biden traveling to
Europe.”  Can you confirm that such a trip is under consideration?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  We discuss a range of ways and mechanics for engaging with
our friends and partners around the world, but I don’t have any more
specifics for you at this point in time.  
  
Q    Okay.  And this morning, Leader Schumer and Speaker Pelosi
announced that Zelenskyy — President Zelenskyy of Ukraine —   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — will be delivering an address to the full House and Senate on
Wednesday morning.  What’s the White House reaction to this address? 
Are there any concerns that the White House has about the Ukrainian
President speaking directly with Congress as opposed to the White House
on its various positions and requests?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  We speak frequently with President Zelenskyy.  The President
spoke with him — had a lengthy conversation with him directly on Friday,
and we’re in touch with Ukrainian government officials nearly every day
— not every day.   
  
We certainly support leaders in Congress inviting him to address a joint
session.  And I would again reiterate that there’s strong, bipartisan
support for Ukraine, for the leadership, and the bravery of President
Zelenskyy.  And we’ll all look forward to watching his speech on
Wednesday.  
  
Q    And then, finally, on Sarah Bloom Raskin and Senator Manchin’s
announcement that he doesn’t support her confirmation: Does the White
House still see a path to getting her confirmed in the evenly divided
Senate?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  We are going to continue our work with Chairman Brown to
garner bipartisan support.  But again, she is one of the most qualified
individuals ever to be nominated to this position.  So that’s where our
focus is.  
  
Q    So you are pushing her forward still and —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yes.  
  
Q    — and believe that you can get her —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yes.  
  
Q    — confirmed?  Okay.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  That is where our focus is.  We wouldn’t be pushing for
bipartisan support if she wasn’t still our nominee.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Jen.  Two questions on WNBA star Brittney Griner.  Last
week you had said you couldn’t comment on the case.  Is there any update
you can give now on the efforts the administration may be taking to
secure her release?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  We do not have a Privacy Act waiver.  
  
Q    Okay.  And does the White House have any reason to believe that
Griner is being used as a political pawn by the Russian government?  Or
does the administration see this strictly as part of the Russian
criminal justice  
system?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  We just can’t speak any more to the reports of this case.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Hey, Jen.  Thank you very much, Jen.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I’ll come back to you.  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you.  On the possible trip to Europe: Is President Biden
considering visiting, maybe, perhaps the Ukrainian border and visit
refugees — Ukrainian refugees — like other foreign leaders are doing? 
Is this something you’d like to do?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I just don’t have anything more on the reports.  Again, we
have a range of conversations with our NATO partners and European allies
about the next steps in diplomacy, but I don’t have anything to confirm
for you in terms of the report.  
  
Q    And just one more.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  
  
Q    Not just China but some of the biggest countries in the world, like
India or Brazil, some countries in Latin America like Mexico, they’re
not part of this economic war — warfare against Russia.  Is this
something that undermine the efforts from this White House and European
countries?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I would say it doesn’t undermine our efforts.  We’ve been
working to build a global coalition far beyond the G7 and our NATO
partners, and had a great deal of success in that.  And every country
has to decide where they want to stand, where they want to be as we look
and the history books are written.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    And you believe the —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I think we’ve got to move on.  We’ve got to get around.    
  
Q    Just very quickly.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Okay.  
  
Q    Do you just believe this economic pressure will stop Vladimir Putin
from his invasion?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think as we’ve seen, the impact of the President’s
leadership on the global stage and the economic consequences that have
been put into place have led Russia and the Russian economy to be on the
brink of collapse.  And there’s no question that, over time, that will
have an impact.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Oh, actually — thank you.  Furthering that point, you did mention
at the top of this briefing that there has been no action on the part of
Putin to stop the onslaught; you haven’t seen any action.   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Mm-hmm.  
  
Q    And that is after, again, all of these severe economic sanctions
have been levied.  And so, you know, I’m wondering why the
administration thinks that this threat of further severe action that is
vague, that is unnamed will deter him from using chemical weapons.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think the reason that we spoke out last week about
chemical weapons is because we felt that it was important for the global
community to understand that they had the capacity, the capabilities,
and that they have used them in the past.  And at the same time, they
were accusing, inaccurately — they were spreading false information
about the U.S. and the Ukrainians’ intentions.  That was the origin of
why we were so outspoken last week.   
  
So, this is more about us making clear to the world what we’ve seen as
patterns in the past and what their capabilities and capacities are.    
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you, Jen.  President Biden has repeatedly said, “No U.S.
troops inside Ukraine.”  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Mm-hmm.  
  
Q    Are there any U.S. troops still training Ukrainians outside
Ukraine?  And if not, could that be a thing, as we move  
forward, if this turns into (inaudible)?  
  
MS. PSAKI:   You mean in neighboring countries?  
  
Q    Yeah, like bases outside Ukraine.  And if it becomes a long-term
conflict, as obviously many predict, would that be a thing the United
States does?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Let — let me check with the Department of Defense.  We
obviously had trainers on the ground for a period of time.  We hadn’t —
then we pulled them back.  We obviously have a significant military
presence in a range of countries in the region, but I can see if there’s
anything that we are looking ahead to.  
  
Q    That wouldn’t be considered an escalatory type of thing?  You know,
a bit like the MiGs, which got complicated because no one knew kind of
how to get them to the Ukrainians.  Like, if you had Ukrainian soldiers
going into Poland —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  
  
Q    — being trained by U.S. troops to go back and fight Russians.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I mean, I think, really, our focus right now is on providing
them and continuing to expedite the military assistance to them.  And
the good news is that we still — through our coordination with them and
our NATO Allies, we’re able to get them that assistance on the ground. 
They’re actively fighting now, so that’s where our focus really is at
this point in time.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Yeah, on the Federal Reserve: Would the administration then support
the four nominees, who seem to have the votes to be confirmed, to go
forward and deal with the Raskin nominee after?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, there’s enough support to move all five nominees
through the committee.  So we think the Republicans should show up so
that they can vote them through the committee.  
  
Q    And on — one last thing.  The fact that China is in the
conversation about helping Russia, should U.S. companies then look at
maybe decoupling from China with their investments there and be
cautious?  What’s the message that you have?  Can you trust the
Chinese?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I don’t think it’s about trust, but we have not made an ask
or a request at this point of that.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Jen, thank you.  At the Democratic retreat in Philadelphia last
week, some of my colleagues were hearing a lot from Democratic lawmakers
who want the President to do more by executive action, whether it’s on
immigration or whether it is on some of the other priorities of the
administration.  Did he have any conversations with the members there
about possible further executive actions?  And is there anything else —
I think you’re hearing from the members in those meetings with the Black
Caucus and other members of Congress in the last week or two — that may
be coming forward?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would say all of these members can speak for
themselves on what they’re interested in and what they’re requesting
from the President and from this administration.   
  
We have a range of executive authorities — the President does, I should
say, has a range of executive authorities.  I think there have been some
reports about some that are under consideration, including one on
policing, which we have talked about a bit in the past.   
  
So, sure, we still continue to consider what steps we can take through
executive actions, even as we work with Congress to see what we can move
through there as well.  
  
Q    And I take it that there’s no update beyond the legal review
continuing on the student loan question.   
  
MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have an update at this point in time.  No.  
  
Go ahead in the back.  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you.  Me?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Okay.  And then I’ll go to your friend next to you.   
  
Q    Thank you very much.  On North Korea, it is reported that the North
Koreans’ ICBM launch is imminent.  Do you have anything on the North
Korea’s imminent launch (inaudible) ICBM?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have anything on that report.  I’ve not seen that
report.  What I can tell you is that, you know, as you know, last week,
we proactively decided to reveal information publicly about recent tests
and share it with allies and partners as well as Congress.   
  
We have seen North Korea escalate its testing in different periods over
the last four presidents.  And this time, North Korea hid these tests,
unlike the fanfare over past tests.  
  
But I don’t have anything to predict in terms of the future.   
  
I said I’d go to — go ahead.  
  
Q    Japan and some of the other treaty countries are increasingly
alarmed after Afghanistan and this recent situation.  Could you let the
Japanese government know that the Security Treaty will be honored?   
  
And then second, for those of us that were embedded during the war, the
whole situation with Afghanistan is quite personal.  There’s a large
number of our people that helped us that are still left.  Could you just
update us on — almost six months — whether they’ll be able to come
back?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would say on the second part, that that is one of
the reasons that we’ve worked so closely with our Qatari — with the
Qataris to maintain a diplomatic presence there so that we continue to
engage with neighboring countries to bring people home and help some of
our partners and allies who stood by our side, fought by our side over
the course of the 20-year war.  That’s ongoing.   
  
In terms of the numbers, I would point you to the State Department who
would have the most up-to-date numbers.   
  
I’m not sure I understand your first question.  
  
Q    Well, just a reassurance to Japan and a lot of the countries that
have treaties with us that are worried — you know, if a situation like
this develops, if those treaties are going to be honored.   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Which situation?  How would it relate to Japan?  
  
Q    Well, Afghanistan is a long partner of ours.  And so,  
you know, the whole situation that’s happening now — Taiwan — there’s a
great concern that if you have a treaty and it comes to a difficult
situation, whether it’s really going to be honored.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  We’ve never stepped back from the commitments we’ve made
under the Taiwan Relations Act.  And the President stands by those.   
  
Go ahead, James.  
  
Q    Thank you very much, Jen.  Two questions on Russia/Ukraine.  Prior
to February 24, the President, our NATO Allies, and the EU were embarked
on a deterrence project.  That’s exactly the word that you and other
senior U.S. officials used at the time.   
  
Quite clearly, the invasion was launched on the 24th of February.  And
so we can say, as a factual matter, that that deterrence project
failed.  Is it the view of the White House that Mr. Putin could not be
deterred by any set of steps?  Or are you willing to concede that
perhaps some other set of steps by the President and our allies might
have deterred the invasion?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  You know, James, I would say that when we put in place the
threat of sanctions and the threat of consequences, we never thought
that that would be failproof or that would be 100 percent effective.  We
did that because we wanted to lay out the clear consequences should
President Putin proceed in invading Ukraine, even as we predicted, quite
consistently, that that was very much his intention.   
  
And what we have done since that point in time is implement those
sanctions and implement those consequences, far beyond what I think most
people’s expectations were in the world about what those would look
like.    
  
I don’t think it’s — I don’t think I can look in a rearview mirror, or
any of us can, and predict what would have been different.  What we did
is we took steps to rally the world to stand up to the aggressions of
President Putin.  And we have implemented them and followed up on what
we committed to since that point in time.  
  
Q    One key decision made by the President early on was to remove
strategic ambiguity from this equation.  Never really was Mr. Putin
forced to wonder what consequences he would face.  He was told at the
outset he would never face military intervention by the United States
and NATO, that the full range of the punishments he would face would
amount to diplomatic and economic sanctions.   
  
I think a lot of people wonder why a greater effort wasn’t made to leave
Mr. Putin in doubt about the consequences he might face.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Because the President is the President of the United States
of America, and he felt it was important to be clear with the American
people about what his intentions were and what they were not.    
  
And his intentions were not to send men and women, their sons and
daughters to fight a war in Ukraine against Russia.   
  
Go ahead.   
  
Q    Thank you.  On Iran.   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Okay, I’ll do bo- — go ahead.  Ladies first.  Okay, go
ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you.  On Iran: The Iran talks appeared to have stalled amid
some last-minute demands by Russia.  Are the Iran talks dead?  And if
not, what now?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, right now, the negotiators are back home in their
capitals.  We’ll see what happens in the days ahead with diplomacy
around the deal.   
  
We continue to believe that, you know, obviously, a diplomatic path
forward is the best path forward.  But this is a natural part of the
process.  It is also standard for the most difficult parts of the
conversation — negotiations to be happening at the end.   
  
Q    And then, just on Ukraine: South African President Cyril Ramaphosa
says he’s been asked to mediate between Russia and Ukraine.  Would the
White House support that, endorse that, in any way assist with that,
especially since the African model kind of tends towards, like,
restorative justice, truth, and reconciliation instead of, you know,
traditional justice?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I’m happy to check with our national security team on his
role.  
  
What I can tell you is that there have been a half a dozen global
leaders who have been meeting with both the Russians and the Ukrainians
and engaging, of course, directly through diplomatic channels and trying
to come to a diplomatic conclusion here.  
  
We have been engaged directly with them on the front end and back end of
those conversations, and encourage them to also make sure they are
engaging with the Ukrainians and not just the Russians.  
  
But I will check if there’s any specific —  
  
Q    (Inaudible) South Africans about this offer (inaudible)?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I’m happy to check specifically.  But again, there’s a range
of countries that are already playing this role.  So —  
  
Go ahead.  In the — go ahead.  
  
Q    With the COVID — thank you, by the way.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  
  
Q    With COVID funds falling off the omnibus —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — and it may take a bit — you know, if Congress kind of (inaudible)
get done — has the White House ask changed at all?  Have they come back
to, you know, lawmakers and said, “Hey, while it’s going to take a
while, you know, we need more,” or it’s in a different place?  I’m just
curious how that —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  You mean in terms of asking for less money or something like
that?   Or —  
  
Q    Or more?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Or more money.  Yeah.  
  
Q    You know, my question is: What is the timing — and does the timing
change the needs of the White House?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, the time — I mean, we’re asking for money to meet
exactly the needs that are going to start to come up soon in the coming
— in the coming weeks even, and in supporting a number of the programs
that have been pivotal to people across this country, especially people
who are uninsured, people who are relying on access to free treatments,
testing, vaccines.  
  
Obviously, these are programs that it’s not only in the United — in the
U.S. government’s interest to continue, but it’s in the interest of the
American people, especially people who don’t have the resources to cover
and pay for a lot of these different treatments.   
  
We had originally — we had requested $22.5 billion, I think you’re
aware, for immediate and urgent COVID response needs because that is the
funding we felt we needed.  That does not mean it would cover the needs
in — forever.  That would just be the needs we have at this moment in
time.   
  
So these conversations are still ongoing with leaders in Congress.  We
are — but we want to be very clear about the fact that some of these
programs could abruptly end and be pared back without additional
funding.  
  
Q    A real quick follow-up.  Just — you mentioned the uninsured, about
the HRSA program that reimburses from uninsured funds.  You guys
previously said that would end this month.  Is that timeline still
there?  I mean, is that —   
  
MS. PSAKI:  You mean if we don’t have funding?  
  
Q    Yeah.  Is it still the end of the month they shut that down?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  A lot of these programs could end quite abruptly.  So, it
could.  But I will check and see if that specific one would.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Jen, real quick on Title 42 — two related questions.   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  
  
Q    One of them: Democratic senators and congresspeople and activists
are criticizing the President.  During the campaign, he said that this
Trump-era policy was inhumane, yet he’s keeping it, even though the
country is opening again.  But then, a few days back, the CDC decided to
let unaccompanied minors in.  So the fear is that this is going to make
a lot of parents just send their children by themselves and lead to
another humanitarian tragedy at the border.    
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would say, first — I mean, as you’ve noted, the CDC
makes determinations about Title 42.  I think, as it relates to the
recent decision, I’d have to talk to the Department of Homeland Security
specifically about that and how they’re applying it or implementing
it.   
  
As you know, our intention is certainly not to put more children at da-
— in danger or put them — incentivize parents sending kids on a journey
that’s treacherous and dangerous across the border.    
  
But the President — you know, he is implementing this because we are
still in the middle of a public health crisis.  That continues to be the
case, as <s>designed</s> \[designated\] by the CDC.  
  
Q    But he still plans to reopen the border and make more humane
policy, like he promised?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  That is — that is what he proposed on his first day in
office.  And we are very supportive of the efforts in the Senate to do
exactly that.   
  
And just because it’s not done yet, it doesn’t mean that we aren’t going
to stay at the fight to get exactly that accomplished and done.  
  
Q    Jen, is there any reason why you have not condemned racism against
Africans in Ukraine?  I understand that Ukrainians are the victims here;
they are being bombed by Russia, and they are being killed.  But a lot
of Africans, they are facing racism.  I know you are providing a lot of
financial assistance to Poland and to Ukraine, but Africans there are
being banned from even entering Poland.  Why have you not officially —
the White House — issued a statement condemning racism against Africans
in Ukraine?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  We have, and I believe the State Department has.  But we
have spoken out against that and expressed concern about any reports of
discrimination or — at the border.  
  
Q    And then finally, if I may: I’m trying to understand where you’re
trying — your endgame in Ukraine.  You’re not going there.  You’re not
sending troops there.  There will be no fly — no no-fly zone over
Ukraine.  And are you — will it be a fair assessment to say that you are
pushing these guys to commit suicide, knowing that Russia has a
superpower and, eventually, it will capture the main cities, Kyiv and
Kharkiv, and other these cities around there?  What’s the endgame?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, the endgame is really a question for President Putin. 
We have — we have completely crushed his economy.  We have provided
military assistance, humanitarian assistance to the Ukrainians, enabling
them to fight back for far longer than the Russian leadership
anticipated.   
  
And, again, he has to — he has to determine what the path forward looks
for — like for him.   
  
Thanks, everyone.  
  
Q    Jen, can you confirm or deny the rumors that there are Russian hit
squads in Kyiv going after journalists?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have any details on that for you.   
  
Q    But you’ve heard of it?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I can see if there’s more.

4:10 P.M. EDT  
