---
category: press-briefings
date: '2022-03-07'
modified_time: 2022-03-07 18:46:53-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2022/03/07/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-jen-psaki-march-7th-2022/
published_time: 2022-03-07 18:46:52-05:00
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Jen\_Psaki, March 7th,\_2022"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

2:42 P.M. EST

     MS. PSAKI:  Hi, everyone.  Okay.  I have two items for all of you
at the top.

     This week, we are marking one year — the one-year anniversary of
the American Rescue Plan, which has been the key driver of our strong
economic recovery, provided us with the tools needed to fight the
pandemic, and made long-term investments to revitalize the local economy
in communities around the country.

Each day this week, we will focus on a different element of the hundreds
of ARP — or American Rescue Plan — programs that have successfully
delivered resources across the country over the past year.

Today, we’re focusing on ARP’s higher-ed investments in community
colleges; HBCUs; TCCUs — Tribally Controlled Colleges and Universities;
and MSIs — Minority-Serving Institutions.

In a press call today with key members of Congress, Education Secretary
Cardona will highlight the ARP’s Higher Education Emergency Relief Fund
to serve students and ensure learning continues during the pandemic.

The ARP’s funding for Higher Education includes over $10 billion for
community colleges and over $2.7 billion for HBCUs — one of the
largest-ever federal investments in community colleges and HBCUs.

These funds are already having a significant impact on institutions and
students.  A recent survey of college presidents by the American Council
on Education found that these ARP investments enabled 93 percent of
colleges to provide direct financial support to students at risk of
dropping out, 81 percent of colleges to keep students’ net prices
similar to pre-pandemic levels, and 70 percent of colleges to continue
to employ faculty, staff, and other employees.

Today, we also have a new announcement from the President’s competition
agenda.  The Departments of Treasury, Justice, Labor, and the Federal
Trade Commission investigated the effects of the lack of labor market
competition on the U.S. economy.

This new report makes clear that there is more we can do so every worker
can take advantage of our historically strong labor market recovery.

Corporate concentration and anti-competitive practices, like non-compete
agreements and misclassification, have stifled wages for workers and
reduced their power to bargain for dignity and respect in the workplace.

The costs to workers are substantial.  Lack of competition causes
workers’ wages to be 20 percent lower than what they’d otherwise earn.

The report also shows that diminished labor market competition holds
back our entire economy, inhibiting innovation, increasing prices, and
curbing economic growth.

And finally, I know some of you will be traveling with us to Fort Worth,
Texas, tomorrow, so I wanted to give you a little bit of a preview of
that.

Tomorrow, President Biden and Secretary of Veterans Affairs Denis
McDonough will travel to Fort Worth, Texas, to speak with veterans,
caregivers, and survivors about addressing the health effects of
environmental exposures such as burn pits.  This is obviously something
the President talked about in his State of the Union Address a little
less than a week ago.

They will visit the Fort Worth VA Clinic and receive a briefing from VA
doctors and nurses on their primary care and specialty health services
for veterans.  They will also speak with veterans and patient advocates
about different challenges facing the community.

Then they will deliver remarks at Tarrant County Resource Connection on
expanding access to healthcare and benefits for veterans affected by
exposure to harmful substances, toxins, and other environmental hazards,
including those from burn pits, as part of the “Unity Agenda for the
Nation.”

The President will discuss the administration’s actions to address these
issues, including a new proposed rule to consider adding certain rare
cancers to the list of those presumed to be service connected.  And he
will urge Congress to send him legislation that ensures we honor our
commitment to veterans exposed to toxic substances.

President Biden believes we have a sacred obligation to care for our
veterans and their families.  And as a military family, the Bidens know
firsthand the challenges that come from military service and deployment
to combat zones.

With that, Josh, why don’t you kick us off?

     Q    Thanks, Jen.  Three questions.   First: Administration
officials are meeting with foreign counterparts in Venezuela.  You’ve
also talked to Iran and the Saudis.  Is the supply of oil so important
that it’s acceptable to cut deals in some cases with countries that may
have engaged in unsavory actions in the past?

     MS. PSAKI:  Well, first, I think it’s important to take each of
those engagements separately, because there are a range of issues that
are important in each of those — in each of those relationships. 

     One, as it relates to Saudi Arabia, we did talk a few weeks ago
about how Brett McGurk and Amos Hochstein went to Saudi Arabia to
discuss a range of issues — including the war in Yemen, including
security in the region, and certainly including energy security. 

     They had the discussion.  It’s in everyone’s interests to — to
reduce the impact on the global oil marketplace, and that was part of
that discussion.

     As it relates to Venezuela, the purpose of the trip that was taken
by administration officials was to discuss a range of issues —
including, certainly, energy security — but also to discuss the health
and welfare of detained U.S. citizens.  We’re never going to miss an
opportunity to do exactly that. 

     And I will just note, in this scenario, that they are separate. 
They are separate paths and conversations, just as they are in the Iran
negotiations. 

     And what was the third country you mentioned?  Sorry.

     Q    Well, Venezuela, Iran, and Saudis.

     MS. PSAKI:  Oh, and Iran.  The most vital reason — the most
important reason why we are focused and have been focused on having
these discussions with the Iranians and our P5+1 partners is to prevent
Iran from acquiring a nuclear weapon. 

     That is why we’re in these — these negotiations.  We are getting
closer.  There are still important components to work through.  But
certainly, the discussion of oil is a part of that, but the most
important reason is to prevent them from acquiring a nuclear weapon. 

     So, I would just note — and I went through all of those
purposefully, obviously, because these are all geopolitical issues that
have a range of topics that are a part of the discussion in our
engagements. 

     Q    Secondly, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi has suggested that
Russian oil imports should be banned.  We’re already seeing that Russia
is struggling to sell some of its oil, which suggests that supplies are
destabilized.

     Given that fact, would President Biden sign a ban?  And what would
hold him back from doing so if not?

     MS. PSAKI:  Well, no decision has been made at this point by the
President about a ban on import — a ban on importing of oil from Russia,
and those discussions are ongoing internally and also with our
counterparts and partners in Europe and around the world. 

     I would note that what the President is most focused on is ensuring
we are continuing to take steps to deliver punishing economic
consequences on Putin while taking all action necessary to limit the
impact to prices at the gas pump. 

     And as you noted, yes, it is true that there has obviously been an
impact of the invasion on the level of import to the United States and
to other parts of the world. 

     I would note as we’re having these conversations — and obviously,
the President talked with his — a number of his European partners this
morning about a range of issues; this was part of it.  But if you look
at Russian imports, they account for about a third currently of Europe’s
oil imports. 

     So, with the data we have that’s most — that we have available at
this point in time is back to 2021, not that long ago.  But just to give
you a point of comparison: The amount that the United States was
importing back in 2021 before the invasion was about 700,000 barrels per
day of crude oil and petroleum.  The Europeans import about 4.5 million
barrels per day of oil. 

     So, obviously, we are also very well aware as we’re having these
conversations and as we’re consulting with our partners that there would
be — we have different capacities and capabilities.

     Q    And then, last, the Florida Surgeon General says that healthy
children shouldn’t get COVID vaccines.  Is that a good policy?

     MS. PSAKI:  Absolutely not.  Let me just note that we know the
science, we know the data and what works and what is the most — what the
most effective steps are in protecting people of a range of ages from
hospitalization and even death. 

     The FDA and CDC have already weighed in in the safety — on the
safety and efficacy of COVID-19 vaccines for those five and older.  The
recommendations are vetted transparently through a process for — with a
purpose so that parents can have confidence, after consulting with their
pediatricians or doctors if they would like, about the safety. 

     But we also know through the data that unvaccinated teenagers are
three times as likely to be hospitalized if they get COVID than
vaccinated teenagers. 

     So, it’s deeply disturbing that there are politicians peddling
conspiracy theories out there and casting doubt on vaccinations when it
is our best tool against the virus and the best tool to prevent even
teenagers from being hospitalized. 

     Go ahead.

     Q    I want to read to you — if I could, Jen — some comments from
people we’ve met at gas stations today.  One woman saying, “I just never
imagined to see the cost of gas be this high.”  Another said, “It’s a
huge stressor to my financial situation, a huge stressor.  It’s kind of
like something I’m stressed about, like, during the day: Will I be able
to afford gas?  How much money do I have?”

     What is the White House, what is the President’s message to
Americans who are going to the gas station today and seeing prices so
high?

     MS. PSAKI:  Well, the President’s message is that he’s going to do
everything we can, everything he can to reduce the impact on the
American people, including the price of gas at the tank. 

     What is also true is that because of the actions of President
Putin, because he invaded a sovereign country, that created instability
in the markets.  That is something the President talked about even
before Russia and President Putin moved forward with their actions. 

But we have already taken steps, the President has already taken steps:
historic release from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve — one that’s done
in a coordinated fashion.   
  
     And, clearly, we will continue to have conversations with large oil
producers and suppliers around the world about how to mitigate the
impact and consider domestic options as well.   
  
     Q    You said, on Friday, the administration is looking at options
it could take, quote, “right now…to cut U.S. consumption of Russian
energy.”   
  
     MS. PSAKI:  Mm-hmm.  
  
     Q    When is a decision on that going to be made?

MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have a prediction of that for you at this point in
time, but there is an active discussion.  
  
     Q    And I want to go back to one of the three countries that Josh
mentioned: Venezuela.  There was a U.S. team there this weekend talking
to the Maduro regime.  Sanctions have been in place since 2019, a lack
of diplomatic engagement since then because of electoral fraud, because
of all the things that that regime has done to the Venezuelan people.   
  
     And I hear you say we’re doing everything we can to bring down the
cost of gas, but is it really worth doing business with a despot like
Nicolás Maduro to drive down gas prices?  
  
     MS. PSAKI:  Well, first, I think that’s leaping several stages
ahead in any process.  There was a discussion that was had by members of
the administration over the course of the last several days.  Those
discussions are also ongoing.  And part of our focus is also on the
health and welfare of detained U.S. citizens — while a separate process,
still that is part of our engagement with them.   
  
     So, at this point in time, I don’t have anything to predict.  It’s
ongoing.  I just don’t have anything to convey at this point.  
  
     Q    And on Americans who are not — or who are being detained:
What’s being done about Brittney Griner, in Russia?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, we, of course, have seen the reports.  Because we do
not have a Privacy Act waiver, which I think you’re all familiar with, I
can’t speak to that more specifically.  Of course, we obviously do
everything we can, when there are any reports of Americans who are
detained, through the State Department and through diplomatic
channels.   
  
     But I would point you to the State Department for more.  But given
we don’t have a Privacy Act waiver, it’s unlikely we would say — to say
more.  
  
     Q    And you’re not aware of any other Americans like her who have
been detained in recent weeks under similar incidents?  
  
     MS. PSAKI:  Again, I have nothing to report from here, Ed.  I would
say that the Privacy Act waiver, which is required for us to be able to
speak to any instances.  But given you asked me about the particular
report, I wanted to speak to that.   
  
     Go ahead.  
  
     Q    Thank you, Jen.  It sounds like you guys are blaming Putin for
the increase in gas prices recently, but weren’t gas prices going up
anyway because of post-pandemic supply chain issues?   
  
     MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think there’s no question that, as we have seen
and outside analysts have conveyed this as well, the increase, and the
anticipated continued increase — which is, I think, what some of your
colleagues were asking about — that that is a direct result of the
invasion of Ukraine.  And also, there was an anticipation of that that
was — that was — it was factored in, as gas prices have gone up.   
  
     Q    So you say that you’re going to do everything that you can to
reduce the impact that high gas prices have on Americans.  We’re asking
other countries to think about maybe pumping more oil.  Why not just do
it here?   
  
     MS. PSAKI:  Well, to be very clear, federal policies are not
limiting the supplies of oil and gas.  To the con- — let me finish — to
the con- — let me finish —  
  
     Q    President Biden signed an executive order —  
  
     MS. PSAKI:  Peter.  
  
     Q    — his first week —  
  
     MS. PSAKI:  Peter, I’m —  
  
     Q    — that halted new oil and gas leases —  
  
     MS. PSAKI:  Let me — let me give you —  
  
     Q    — on public lands.  
  
     MS. PSAKI:  Let me give you the facts here — and I know that can be
inconvenient, but I think they’re important in this moment: To the
contrary, we have — we have been clear that in the short term, supply
must keep up with the demand we’re — we are — here and around the world,
while we make the shift to secure a clear — clean energy future.   
  
     We are one of the largest producers with a strong domestic oil and
gas industry.  We have actually produced more oil; it is at record
numbers.  And we will continue to produce more oil.  There are 9,000
approved drilling permits that are not being used. 

So the suggestion that we are not let allowing companies to drill is
inaccurate.  The suggestion that that is what is hindering or preventing
gas prices to come down is inaccurate.   
  
     Q    Would President Biden rescind his executive order that halts
new oil and natural gas leases on public lands?  
  
     MS. PSAKI:  Well, 90 percent of them happen on private lands, as
I’m sure you know.  And there are 9,000 unused approved drilling
permits.  So I would suggest you ask the oil companies why they’re not
using those if there’s a desire to drill more.  
  
     Q    Would President Biden ever undo his executive order that
stopped the construction of the Keystone XL Pipeline?  
  
     MS. PSAKI:  Are you suggesting that would solve the gas prices
issue?   
  
     Q    Well, do you think that that would maybe affect prices faster
than getting the whole country off of fossil fuels?   
  
     MS. PSAKI:  I actually don’t think it would.  The Keystone was not
an oilfield; it’s a pipeline.   
  
     Q    Yeah.  
  
     MS. PSAKI:  Also, the oil is continuing to flow in, just through
other means.  So it actually would have nothing to do with the current
supply imbalance.   
  
     Q    So, gas prices are approaching an all-time high per gallon. 
How high would they have to get before President Biden would say “I’m
going to set aside my ambitious climate goals and just increase domestic
oil production, get the producers to drill more here, and we can address
the fossil fuel future later”?  
  
     MS. PSAKI:  Well, again, Peter, the U.S. produced more oil this
past year than in President Trump’s first year.  Next year, according to
the Department of Energy, we will produce more oil than every — than
ever before.  Those are — those are the facts, in terms of oil
production.   
  
     And again, right now there are 9,000 unused approved permits to
drill on shore.  So, I think you’re misidentifying what the actual issue
is. 

But if we’re looking to the future and what — how — what we can do to
prevent this from being a challenge in future crises, the best thing we
can do is reduce our dependence on fossil fuels and foreign oil, because
that will help us have a reliable source of energy so that we’re not
worried about gas prices going up because of the whims of a foreign
dictator.   
  
     Q    Right.  And you guys think that asking Saudi Arabia or
Venezuela or Iran is reducing our dependence on foreign oil?   
  
     MS. PSAKI:  That’s actually — I just outlined each of those
specific scenarios and the range of discussions that we’re having with
each of those countries.  I don’t think anybody is advocating for Iran
to continue acquiring a nuclear weapon, perhaps except for the former
president who pulled us out of the deal.   
  
     Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Jen.  President Zelenskyy spoke with ABC today.  He says
that he’s had a longstanding request in with allies to access these
Soviet-era fighter jets.  So I want to — I want to ask you about this
backfilling — this possibility of backfilling these fighter jets.  
  
     He says President Biden can do more to make this happen.  What’s
your response to that, and what’s the holdup?   
  
     MS. PSAKI:  Well, just for clarity — I know everybody is following
this very closely, but to catch others up — we’re talking about Polish
planes — right? — these fighter jets that they are requesting.  We’re
working with Poland on this issue and consulting with the rest of our
NATO Allies on it.  This is Poland’s sovereign decision to make.  We
have in no way opposed Poland transferring planes to Ukraine.   
  
     But to go to the source of your question here, I think, Cecilia,
there are a number of challenging practical questions, including how the
planes would actually be transferred from Poland to Ukraine.  Right? 
So, are they going to fly?  Where will they depart from?  Where will
they land?  Those are all very important questions here.   
  
     And also, as it — as it relates to the backfill question, we are
working through some pretty complicated logistics on that front as well,
including how we would backfill, because procuring new planes and
transferring serious weapon systems often takes years — take years to do
from the United States.   
  
     So that is all — those are all two layers of dif- — of difficult
logistical challenges here.   
  
     Q    But is it predominantly logistical challenges that is the
holdup?  Or is there a concern on the part of the President that
supplying Poland these planes could exacerbate the conflict with Russia,
Poland, and other Allied countries?   
  
     MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think there’s an important question here, as I
touched on a little, about where they take off from and where they land,
right?  There is a airbase that is a NATO airbase in Poland.  If you
have plans — planes departing from there, that’s — that could be a
challenging circumstance.  Are there — what are the other options and
where do they land?   
  
     So those are some of the logistical challenges.  Obviously, the
Department of Defense can speak to this more intensively.  But we’re
looking at all of those factors.  But we are not, certainly, preventing
or blocking or discouraging Poland.  That is — they are a sovereign
country.  They make — they make their own decisions.  But it is not as
easy as just moving planes around.

Q    And President Zelenskyy said that, in recent days, that “all the
people who will die from this day, will die also because of you.”  He’s
essentially saying the West will have blood on its hands if it doesn’t
do more.  Is the President happy with — does he believe the cr- — the
administration’s response so far to this crisis has been adequate?  Is
he okay?  Does he consider this successful at this point?   
  
     MS. PSAKI:  I mean, Cecilia, I don’t think anybody watching this
anywhere around the world feels happy.  This is — this is —  
  
     Q    But as it relates to the American side of this?  
  
     MS. PSAKI:  But let me finish.  This is barbaric.  It’s horrific to
watch.  I mean, you have 1.5 million, if not more, refugees crossing the
border.  You have mothers and children dead on the side of the road. 
This is heart wrenching to watch.  And — ugh, sorry, it’s — it is.  It’s
heart wrenching to watch, you know? 

And I think for us who are working in public service, you watch in these
moments and there are — there are limitations in the sense that we are
not going to send U.S. troops to fight in Ukraine against Russia.  The
President is not going to do that.  That is what you have to weigh as
President of the United States. 

What we are doing and what he is doing is continuing to take every step
to provide them security assistance — $1 billion of security
assistance.  That has been expedited.  I know the Department of Defense
gave an update on Friday about how much of that has arrived.  A huge
percentage has arrived and been expedited in a very short timeframe.   
  
     We have also provided economic, humanitarian assistance.  And I
think any world leader would tell you that without the President’s
leadership and without the United States rallying the world to hold
Russia accountable, there would not be the kind of accountability,
pressure on the financial system in Russia.   
  
     So we are doing everything that is in the interest of the United
States, in the interest of our partners in NATO to put pressure on
President Putin, to support the Ukrainians, and certainly doing that
while we watch them fight bravely and courageously. 

I think the last think I would say on this, Cecilia, is that it’s also
important — and we’re very cognizant of this here — to be clear that
this is going to be — continue to be a very, very difficult period of
time.  The Ukrainians are fighting bravely.  We’re standing by them and
supporting them.  But Russia is — you know, they’re going to continue to
fight.  They are going to continue to pursue what President Putin’s
ambition is. 

Go ahead.

Q    Can I just step back a little bit —

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.

  
Q    — in terms of supply.  We’re talking about specific

countries, but this has been an effort that’s been underway now —

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.

Q    — for several months.  Amos, Brett, many others as well.  Algeria,
Japan. 

What is the update in terms of — has supply been kicked in on the LNG
side or on the oil side?  Where does that stand, given the extensive
effort in the leadup to now, to try and backfill and ensure stability on
the supply side?

MS. PSAKI:  You mean for the global markets to — for natural gas?  Both.

Q    For natural gas or oil, on the global markets.

MS. PSAKI:  So, let me start with the natural gas side because that we
anticipated would be an issue for the Europeans primarily. 

We have had some success — Japan as an example, and I can see if there
are others, too, to read out to all of you — where there was supply that
was intended to go to Japan and other countries in Asia and redirect it
to Europeans so that it could help backfill the potential shortage in
natural gas.  That is less an issue for us here in the United States and
more an issue for the Europeans.  And to your point, it is something
we’ve been working on for some time. 

In terms of global oil supply, I don’t have anything to read out for you
at this point in time.  Those conversations certainly have been ongoing,
but the release — the coordinated release from the Strategic Petroleum
Reserve and the continued discussion about that has been a part of the
effort to address the shortage or the potential for shortage in the
marketplace.

Q    But 60 million barrels is — I’m not trying to minimize it, but it’s
a drop in the bucket given the scale of the, kind of, dislocation we’ve
seen. 

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.

Q    Is there a trigger in terms of the conversations with global
allies, partners, players in the supply market that would cause them to
come in, based on the conversations that have happened?  Like, what it’s
going to bring them in and make clear that the months of work you guys
have put into this actually results in something tangible?

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  I certainly understand your question.  What I was
trying to convey is that that’s part of what we’ve done to date.  But we
are continuing conversations about a range of what would be needed
moving forward.  And there are a range of options on the table.  I just
can’t detail more specifics from here.

Q    Okay.  And then, last one.  How much does it weigh on the
administration, if you move towards cutting Russian imports of oil, that
it would be a unilateral move in the face of what had been a very
carefully calibrated coalition up to this point where energy was
considered off the table, for the most part?

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  Well, I would say this is one of the

reasons that I gave the example of how much — you know, our capabilities
and our capacities are very different, both because we import such a
smaller percentage of oil from Russia than the Europeans do, but also
because we have a much larger capacity for producing our own oil. 

So, it is a very different circumstance, and certainly we are going to
continue to consult with, continue to convey where our plans, where our
discussions are here internally with the Europeans.  But I would look at
it through a different prism than past coordinated efforts.

Go ahead.

Q    Can I just follow up there?  Just today, Russia said that it could
cut off fuel through the Nord Stream 1 pipeline — Nord Stream 2. 

You know, to what extent are you concerned that European allies, who
depend so incredibly on these oil and gas imports from Russia, could
really be stuck?  I mean, like, what — I realize you’re making efforts,
but, you know, to what extent does that factor in?  And what do you say
to Russia in terms of this threat?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think we have been concerned from the beginning
about steps that President Putin could take to impact neighboring
countries, countries in Europe, through a range of means.  And,
certainly, access to energy and energy security is a part of that. 
That’s obviously one of the reasons we’ve been working with a range of
partners on addressing what could be a natural gas shortage. 

And you are right, Andrea, as you well know, that even — I mean, the
Nord Stream 1, 2 threat aside, the reliance on importing — the import of
Russian oil is so much more significant in Russia — excuse me, in Europe
— that well over the course of time, it’s clear they recognize the need
to diversify their means of getting oil.  This is a bigger challenge and
puts them in a more challenging position.  And we recognize that from
here, even as the President is considering steps that we could take from
here. 

So, it is one of the reasons why the President, why people like Amos
Hochstein, Brett McGurk, other — others from our national security team
have been engaging in a range of discussions over the course of the last
several months.

Q    So, I guess, a couple follow-ups just on them, and then I’ve got
another question.

So, these conversations that are taking place, both in terms of securing
additional sources or supplies of energy but also in terms of closing
sanctions, loopholes, and — you know, it doesn’t seem like you’re
getting a huge amount of traction.  I mean, in terms of India, Pakistan,
you know, and China has still not been, you know, helpful in this
regard.  How would you assess the success of that?

And then, just quickly on the — what you’re saying about the European
supplies: So, are you saying that the coordinated action shouldn’t — I
mean, one shouldn’t view the differentiation on energy as a failure of
the coordination?

MS. PSAKI:  So, on the second piece, yes, that’s what I was saying in
that there — we have — we recognize, and the President and other
national security officials have been very clear in our conversations,
that while we have — we have a different circumstance as it relates to
Russian oil because we import such a smaller amount and because we have
our own production capabilities and capacities, and that is different. 
We recognize that.

On the first piece, tell me — sorry, what was the first part of your
question?

Q    Just the success of this outreach. 

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.

Q    I mean, you’re sending people all over the globe, basically, to —
you know, either virtually or in person — to continue to try to isolate
Russia.  And it doesn’t seem like you’re getting as much traction with
some of these countries as you might have hoped.

MS. PSAKI:  I wouldn’t look at it through the isolating; that’s part of
our overarching effort here, right?  But as it relates to oil supply,
what we’re trying to do is engage with energy producers and those with
reserves of oil supply to make sure that we are addressing the supply in
the marketplace. 

Obviously, the coordinated release from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve
just a few days ago is an example of that.  And I certainly understand
you’re asking which countries here and where are we having those
conversations.  I understand those questions.  I just can’t get into
more specific details from here because it wouldn’t be constructive to
our efforts to make progress.

Go ahead.

Q    Can I ask you —

MS. PSAKI:  Oh, go ahead.

Q    — about Iran?  I’m sorry.

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.

Q    Yesterday, Secretary Blinken said that sanctions on Russia over
Ukraine have nothing to do with cooperation with Moscow on the Iran
nuclear deal.  But today, Russian Foreign Minister Lavrov doubled down
in saying that all participants must have “unhindered cooperation.”  Are
you doing anything to provide Russia any kind of written guarantees in
order to bring this, you know, Iran nuclear deal over the finish line?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, again, I think on this, we’re making progress
together.  Russia is a member of the P5+1.  I don’t think anyone
believes it’s in their interest for Iran to acquire a nuclear weapon. 
And that is how we’re approaching these negotiations and discussions. 

And certainly, as the Secretary of State said just yesterday, we don’t
believe that the sanctions on them have anything to do with that shared
goal. 

Go ahead.

Q    What is that status of those talks?  What would you (inaudible)?

MS. PSAKI:  We’re continuing to make a great deal of progress. 
Obviously, the harder things always happen at the very end of the
process.  And that’s where we are — stand at this point in time. 

Go ahead.

Q    Can you take question from the back?

Q    So, two quick ones on oil and then just one other one. 

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.

Q    You mentioned the meeting this morning with Britain, France, and
Germany that the President had with the leaders.  Did they, in that
conversation this morning, express either a willingness or a hesitance
to ban oil or limit oil imports to their countries from Russia? 

MS. PSAKI:  Their countries all have wonderful spokespeople who can
speak for those countries. 

Q    Are you guys going to do a readout?

MS. PSAKI:  We did do a readout. 

Q    You did already?  Okay.  I missed it.

MS. PSAKI:  I would just note that we’ve had ongoing conversations and
we have a very open line of communication, as is evidenced by the
President having this call this morning, about everything from what
we’re seeing on the ground in Ukraine to security assistance deliveries
to discussions about weapons to discussions about additional steps to
squeeze President Putin in the financial sector.

Q    Okay.  Quickly on — there’s conversations up on Capitol Hill about
bipartisan conversations about legislation that could ban the import of
Russian oil into the United States.  If a bill like that came to the
President’s desk, would he sign it?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, no, the President has not made a decision at this
point in time.  So that’s where we stand.

Q    But that’s taking unilateral action as —

MS. PSAKI:  Is a bill on its way over here that’s passed Congress?  I
don’t think so.  But the President has not yet made a decision.

I just gave for you — or tried to give for you a little bit of the
reasoning and the thinking behind where we stand in our coordination
with our allies and partners.

Q    One last question; you referenced it: the gruesome, awful picture
on the front page of our paper today.  Do you know if the President has
seen that picture; what his personal reaction was to it, if so; and more
broadly, does he — has he been affected on a personal level by some of
the imagery that’s come out?  And is that affecting or has he talked
about how to incorporate that personal reaction into some of the
policymaking over the last 10 days?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I don’t know if he saw this specific — there are a lot
of New York Times hard copies floating around this building, I can tell
you, and other — and other newspapers and outlets you all work for, so I
don’t know that he saw that specific photo. 

But what I can tell you is that, you know, the President is somebody
who, of course, has been working in national security and foreign policy
for decades, through his career, right?  He is also a father, a
grandfather.  I don’t know that anyone, including him, has seen those
photos — whether on the front page of your paper or others, and not been
moved.  And I’m sure I can speak personally that, you know, talking to
my neighbors, my in-laws, I’m sure this is true for all of you as well:
The personal impact people have felt in this country — it’s really moved
people in this country. 

And the President is absolutely a citizen of the United States, of
course the leader of the free world, but also somebody who has enormous
empathy for the plight of other human beings.  And he has, of course,
been impacted by the images he has seen, as we all have been.

Q    Are they war crimes?

MS. PSAKI:  Go ahead.

Q    Going back to Venezuela for a second —

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.

Q    — would they have to agree to release the U.S. citizens in prison
there if the U.S. were to ease the current sanctions on oil exports?

MS. PSAKI:  So, it’s a really important question.  There are different
channels.  And, obviously, we’re going to continue to do everything we
can to bring anyone who is detained in Venezuela or any other part of
the world home, but they happen through different tracks.  They’re all a
part of the conversation with Venezuela writ large, but not at the same
time.

Q    And obviously, Vice President Harris is going to Poland and Romania
this week.  Can you talk a little bit more about the White House’s
objectives with her going over there and particularly what message you
want to send to Russia with the Vice President being in that area?

MS. PSAKI:  Absolutely.  So, as you noted, the Vice President is leaving
on her trip just in a couple of days, and she’ll be over there really
showing the support of the United States for the work of our allies and
partners, whether that is on refugees.  And a number of these countries,
including the ones she’ll be visiting, have welcomed hundreds of
thousands of refugees from Ukraine. 

And she’ll also be talking about our ongoing range of options and
assistance that we’ve been providing to the Ukrainian people. 

So, she is going to be there.  I think it sends a strong message that
the Vice President is going to be in — meeting with many of our eastern
flank partners, NATO Allies to convey our commitment to working in
lockstep with them and to — and to continuing to support their efforts
in the region.

Q    And one more quick one.  This morning, the Democratic and
Republican leaders of the committees that oversee trade said that they
have a deal on legislation that would in part suspend normal trade
relations with both Russia and Belarus.  I’m wondering if the White
House supports that, either through legislation or through other
avenues.

MS. PSAKI:  We have — I’ve seen those reports, but we don’t have any
decision on a policy from here at this point in time.

Go ahead, in the middle.

Q    A couple of questions.  Over the weekend, British Prime Minister
Boris Johnson took to the New York Times, had this op-ed in which he
argued that the U.S, Western allies should “go further on economic
sanctions.”  He specifically said to expel “every Russian bank from
SWIFT.”  I know that there were limited actions.  Does the United States
support expelling every bank?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, typically what happens with SWIFT and removing instit-
— or when we’re implementing this — and Iran is the best point of
comparison here — is it’s done institution by institution.  So that is
the case here as well.  It’s done institution by institution.  We
haven’t taken options off the table, and I’m not taking options off the
table here.  But it’s been — we’ve implemented it in the same way with
our European partners that we did when we implemented it as it relates
to Iran.

Q    Um, sorry — so just to be clear, though, there’s not limitat- — I
mean, it sounds like there were limited institutions that were targeted
thus far and — from — removing them from the SWIFT banking system.  But
you would be open to going further?

MS. PSAKI:  We’ve never taken that off the table.

Q    Okay.  The other thing I wanted to ask you about — going back to
the Iran nuclear deal — is: My understanding is that Russia is demanding
guarantees that sanctions targeting the Kremlin over Ukraine do not
hinder its trade with Iran that would be potentially reopened if this
Iran nuclear deal moved forward.  Could that throw a wrench in
negotiations?  And I am curious what the White House’s take is overall
on Russians trying to put that ultimatum down.

MS. PSAKI:  Well, again, I think, as our Secretary of State said
yesterday, we don’t believe it has anything to do with our shared goal
of preventing Iran from acquiring a nuclear weapon.

Q    So you don’t see it as a way to potentially, I guess, limit the
impact that’s current sanctions have on Russia?

MS. PSAKI:  We don’t believe Russia wants Iran to have a nuclear weapon
either.

Q    And so — sorry, just to be clear: So, you don’t see the idea,
though, that these sorts of sanction guarantees of its trade with Iran
have any impact on the current sanctions that the U.S. and Western
allies have imposed on Russia?

MS. PSAKI:  No.

Q    Okay. 

MS. PSAKI:  I think — and our Secretary of State spoke to this
yesterday.

Q    Can I ask you one other question?  In parts of southern Ukraine, it
seems that Russia has shifted from a military takeover to, essentially,
occupation. 

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.

Q    That it is now occupying parts — occupying towns.  Does the White
House support the Ukrainian people’s right to resist the occupation and,
essentially, through any means necessary?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, we certainly support the rights of the Ukrainian
people to fight back.  I would note that we have seen many Ukrainians;
many, many members of the Ukrainian military; and certainly President
Zelenskyy in leadership fight bravely, courageously over the course of
the last 12 days.

I think it’s also true that the world needs to be prepared for a very
long, difficult road ahead.  While they are fighting bravely and we are
standing with them and supporting them, the Russians are still intending
to grind out military advances in the short term just by sheer manpower
and firepower.

So, yes, we support their right to push back and to fight back against
that.

Go ahead.

Q    On businesses: Is there any concern in the White House with all
these Western companies that are suspending operations with Russia that
that just ends up deepening ties between Russia and China, that this is
really forcing Russia in its connections deeper into China?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, as you know, we’ve seen that for some time — right? —
long before Russia invaded Ukraine — them moving a little bit closer
together or closer together. 

What is true on the economic front, though, is that the G7 alone — and
that is not the totality of the unity as it relates to these sanctions —
accounts for about 50 percent of global GDP, while Russia and Ukrai- —
and China, sorry, account for only 15 percent. 

So, they can’t backfill the impact of these sanctions from China.  It’s
just not — not possible.  Now, we’ve also seen China abide by the
sanctions that have been put in place.  They obviously abstained also
from the U.N. Security Council vote and have made some comments about
the sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine. 

If they don’t abide by the sanctions, we always have — you know, we
clearly have means to take steps, but that’s what we’ve seen to date.

Q    So, it doesn’t sound like the White House is concerned that some of
these withdrawals will backfire and create permanent ties between Russia
and China that —

MS. PSAKI:  Well, we know they were — they were moving closer long
before the invasion, which is, I think, an important component here. 
But as it relates to the economic ties, there’s not a way, just based on
purely their place in the economic marketplace, for China to completely
backfill the impact of the G7 and others — and others in the world and
the financial sanctions.

Q    And can I ask one more?

MS. PSAKI:  Oh, go ahead.

Q    On Saudi Arabia —

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.

Q    — is there any discussion in the White House yet for the President
to call the Crown Prince, MBS — Mohammed bin Salman — to talk about oil?

MS. PSAKI:  He spoke with the King just recently.  And obviously, we
have had Brett McGurk and Amos Hochstein travel to the region, talk
about a range of issues, including security in the region and the war in
Yemen, as well as energy security.  But, no, I don’t — there’s no plans
at this point, no.

Q    Jen, you detailed some of the challenges as it relates to the jets
that are in Poland right now, the NATO base there — how you get into
Ukraine and do it in a way that doesn’t instigate a wider war here. 

Vladimir Putin, this weekend, warned that implementing a no-fly zone
would be considered a declaration of war, but he also went further.  His
language was, via translator: “Any move in this direction will be viewed
by us as a participation in the armed conflict.  That very second, we
will view them as participants…and it would not matter what members they
are.” 

So, why does the U.S. — or perhaps the U.S. and its NATO Allies have
confidence that delivering those airplanes in any form will not be
viewed by Vladimir Putin as an act of war?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, first of all, there’s already a war going on in
Ukraine that’s been instigated by Vladimir Putin.

Q    A wider — he was referring to a “wider war” that would bring in
them as an added participant.

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think you ask an important question here, and it is:
Where do these military planes take off from?  That’s an important
question, right?  How do they land?  How do they get there?  The
transporting of them.  Those are all important factors.

Q    But he says “any move in this direction.”  So even where they take
off from almost doesn’t matter.  By “any move” means even the provision
of them would be viewed as an “act of war,” conceivably.  No?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, again, we can’t speak to President Putin’s — what’s in
his mind, what’s in his brain, and the totality of what his intentions
are.  We’ve already seen him take a range of steps.

We’ve provided one billion dollars in security assistance.  We’re not
halting that, right?  We’re not halting our support for the Ukrainians. 
So, we’re not waiting for the advice of Vladimir Putin on what we’re
going to do here as it relates to backfilling planes. 

But the procurement or the providing of planes is up to Poland.  They’re
a sovereign country; they can decide.

I just wanted to outline some of the logistical challenges which are
real, and they’re on a couple of layers.

Q    Understood. 

And given the conversation we’ve had earlier about Iran, Venezuela, and
Saudi Arabia, the President, as a candidate, said in November of 2019,
of Saudi Arabia — he said, we would make them, quote, “pay the price,
and make them, in fact, the pariah that they are.”  And there’s “very
little social redeeming value in the present government in Saudi
Arabia.”  Does President Biden still stand by those words about the
government of Saudi Arabia?

MS. PSAKI:  He does.  He’s never stood away from them, Peter, but it’s
also true that there is a war in Yemen, that there are security issues
in the Middle East, that there are a range of steps we need to engage
with all sorts of countries around the world on that are in — because
it’s in our U.S. national security interests and in our interests.

Go ahead.

Q    So, following up on that, Axios reported this morning that the
President — there’s a deliberation here, at least, that the President
might go to Saudi Arabia.  Can you confirm those deliberations and
perhaps provide a little bit more insight into what’s being discussed?

MS. PSAKI:  There’s no current plans for the President to travel to
Saudi Arabia.

Q    The decision that you announced last week that the President would
not be directly speaking with Vladimir Putin — has a decision amongst
the Allies been made that that would be delegated to the European
partners, that they would be the ones responsible for talking to Putin
directly?

MS. PSAKI:  No, but I would say that we very much support all of the
diplomatic engagements our European partners or the Prime Minister of
Israel or other leaders in the world are having, whether it’s with
President Putin, as long as they are also engrazing \[sic\] — engaging
with Ukrainian leadership, which we continue to encourage them to do. 
We also engage with them before and after all of these conversations.

So, what we said about the President speaking with President Putin is
that now is not the moment.  It doesn’t mean we close the door for — to
forever.  But while President Putin is invading — and in a brutal,
horrific way — a foreign country, no, the President does not have an
intention at this moment to speak with him.  But that doesn’t mean he
will never.  You know, we assess that as time goes on.

Q    Thanks, Jen.

MS. PSAKI:  Okay.  Thank you, everybody.  We’ll do this again tomorrow.

Q    Jen, just a question on Venezuela.  Who were the people who — the
officials who went to Venezuela?  Can you tell us about that?

MS. PSAKI:  There have been a range of reports.  I’m sure we can get you
more details.

Thank you, everybody.  Thanks, everyone.  Have a great day.  Thank you.

3:25 P.M. EST
