---
tags: press-briefings
date: '2022-03-09'
modified_time: 2022-03-09 09:44:08-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2022/03/09/background-press-call-by-senior-administration-officials-on-the-presidents-new-digital-assets-executive-order/
published_time: 2022-03-09 09:44:07-05:00
title: "Background Press Call by Senior Administration Officials on the President\u2019\
  s New Digital Assets Executive\_Order"
---
 
Via Teleconference

(March 8, 2022)

6:21 P.M. EST

     MODERATOR:  Good evening, everyone.  Thank you for joining today’s
press call to discuss President Biden’s new executive order on ensuring
responsible innovation in digital assets.

     As a reminder, this call will be on background, attributed to a
senior administration official, and the contents of this call are
embargoed until tomorrow, Wednesday, March 9th, at 6:00 a.m.  By joining
the call, you agree to these ground rules. 

     Prior to this call, I also shared a factsheet that is also under
embargo until tomorrow at 6:00 a.m.

     For everyone’s awareness but not for reporting, our speakers today
are \[senior administration official\], \[senior administration
official\], and \[senior administration official\]. 

After we hear from our speakers, we will open up the call for Q&A.  And
with that, I’ll turn it over to \[senior administration official\].

     SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks.  Thanks to all of you for
joining us late in the day.

     Ensuring responsible innovation and evolution of the digital asset
ecosystem is essential to our national security, financial stability,
economic competitiveness, and continued global leadership.

     You all know that cryptocurrencies have seen explosive growth in
recent years, reaching a $3 trillion market cap last November. 

     Without oversight, the explosive growth in cryptocurrency use would
pose risks to Americans and to the stability of our businesses, our
financial system, and our national security. 

     The absence of sufficient oversight can also provide opportunities
for criminals and other malicious actors to leverage cryptocurrencies to
launder the proceeds of their crimes or circumvent justly-applied
sanctions. 

     At the same time, however, digital assets can also provide
opportunities for American innovation and competitiveness, and promote
financial inclusion.

     Innovation is central to America’s story and powers our economy,
generating jobs and opportunities, creating and building new industries,
and sustaining our global competitive edge and leadership.

     This innovation is also a critical factor in ensuring the long-term
strength of key national security tools, like sanctions and anti-money
laundering frameworks as well as other strategic benefits we reap from
the role of the United States in the global financial system.

     I also want to underscore the significant international leadership
role the United States has already played in the digital asset
ecosystem, just as we have in technological and financial
standard-setting throughout our history. 

     The United States also has the world’s oldest and most
comprehensive regulatory framework for digital asset activities, which
has enabled us to take leading roles in international fora and
supporting key partners in building their own digital asset capacity.

     The United States led global efforts to adopt the first
international standards on digital assets during our presidency of the
Financial Action Task Force — FATF.  And we continue to drive
implementation of those standards. 

     Under our G7 presidency, we established the G7 Digital Payments
Expert Group to discuss Central Bank Digital Currencies, stablecoins,
and other digital payment issues.

     To reinforce this leadership, the EO directs relevant departments
and agencies to initiate research into the merits of a U.S. central bank
digital currency, including an assessment of possible risks and benefits
to consumers, investors, payment systems, implications for national
security, human rights, and financial inclusion.  That effort will also
lay out the measures that are needed to establish a central bank digital
currency, or CBDC, should there be a determination that doing so is in
the national interest.

     For context, over 100 countries are currently exploring or piloting
central bank digital currencies for both cross-border and domestic use. 
Many of these countries are also working together to set standards for
CBDC design and cross-border systems, with implications for domestic and
international priorities including the centrality of the U.S. dollar in
the global financial system.

     This EO will help make sure we have a leadership role and a seat at
the table.

     Now I’ll turn it over to my colleague.  As you just heard, they are
\[redacted\]. 

     Over to you.

     SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thank you so much.  Good evening
everyone, and thank you again for your time this evening.

     So, innovation is not only critical for our economic security but
also for our national security, enabling us to maintain our
technological and economic edge to compete and win in the 21st century. 

     But innovation must benefit all Americans, and that extends to
innovation in the digital asset ecosystem.  The benefits and risks of
digital asset systems are fundamentally dependent on their design and
governance, so we must take steps to ensure this serves Americans’
interests.

     This executive order seeks to promote digital asset innovation
while balancing their benefits and associated risk, and it does so in
several ways.

     First, the EO establishes a comprehensive federal framework to
ensure the United States continues to play a leading role in the
innovation and governance of digital assets at home and abroad,
consistent with our democratic values and to the benefit of U.S. global
competitiveness.

     Second, the EO directs relevant departments and agencies to
initiate research into the merits of a U.S. Central Bank Digital
Currency, as \[senior administration official\] mentioned previously.

     This research, along with the framework we will develop for
international engagement and competitiveness, will help ensure we
preserve the critical role of the United States in the global financial
system.

     This is critical for ensuring the strength of U.S. national
security tools that we need to combat illicit actors, like rogue states
and cybercriminals.

     Third, the EO calls for the development of a plan to mitigate the
illicit finance and national security risks posed by the misuse of
digital assets.

     The White House has already demonstrated leadership in this space
by aligning departments and agencies to combat misuse of digital assets
enabling the rise and spread of ransomware.

     The insufficiency of international implementation of anti-money
laundering network and frameworks for digital assets is the greatest
vulnerability of these ecosystems that criminals are currently
exploiting.

     Most current digital asset systems were not designed with critical
controls in mind like identity, sanctions screening, and revocability of
illicit transactions.

     Similar to our efforts to secure software development under the
cyber executive order, this executive order is a signal to industry on
the need to build in the critical protections needed for financial
systems so we can leverage these innovative technologies for our
benefit.

     The U.S. government will be developing action plans and frameworks
to drive this objective.

     In sum, the executive order recognizes and reinforces U.S.
leadership in the global financial system, safeguards the long-term
efficacy of critical national security tools like sanctions and
anti-money laundering frameworks, ensuring the digital asset ecosystem
evolves in a manner consistent with our democratic values and protects
businesses, consumers, and the integrity of the global financial system.

This EO is represents a continuation of U.S. leadership on financial and
technological standard-setting at home and abroad. We remain committed
to working with allies in the broader digital asset community to shape
the future of digital assets systems in a manner that’s inclusive,
consistent with our democratic values, and safeguards the integrity of
the global financial system. 

And with that, I’ll turn it over to my colleague, \[senior
administration official\], to follow up and continue.  Thank you.

Over to you, \[senior administration official\].

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks, \[senior administration
official\]. 

As \[senior administration officials\] said, today’s announcement marks
a necessary step forward in our efforts to promote responsible
innovation in the digital asset space, leveraging technology, and
working with the private sector to help build an economy from the bottom
up and the middle out.

Fundamentally, an American approach to digital assets is one that
encourages responsible innovation by decisively mitigating the risks, in
particular the financial stability and consumer protection risks.

We need to be clear-eyed that certain earlier forms of financial
innovation have ended up hurting American families while making a small
group of people very rich.  That underscores the need for robust
consumer and investor protection. 

As digital assets have grown, investors have poured in.  Around 16
percent of adult Americans — approximately 40 million people — have ever
invested in, traded, or used crypto currency based on recent surveys. 
But some asset prices are volatile, regularly skyrocketing and sinking
with real downsides for investors.  Bitcoin, for example, began the
pandemic at $7,300, peaked at around $68,000 before falling back down to
about $39,000. 

The President has put forward a holistic whole-of-government approach to
understand and address not only the macroeconomic risks, but also the
micro risk — that is the risk to each individual consumer, investor, and
business that engages with these assets.

I want to emphasize why this executive order is significant in two key
ways.  First, it reflects an extensive process informed by stakeholders
across the federal government and many outside of government.  This
process has identified key areas of present and future concern, and
questions about the potential promise of these assets and their
underlying technology. 

Chief among those is the need to guard individual consumers, investors,
and businesses, as well as the financial system writ large, from the
risks posed by the substantial growth in digital assets.  This includes
the disparate impact risks that may arise from disparities in digital
asset ownership. 

Second, it recognizes that our assessments of the risks and potential
benefits of digital assets must include an understanding of how our
financial system does and does not meet the current needs of consumers
in a manner that is equitable, inclusive, and efficient. 

Antiquated payment infrastructure leaves the United States and its
consumers with options that are slow, costly, or altogether
inaccessible.  That’s particularly true of cross-border payments. 

That is why this executive order directs a report on the future of money
and payment systems, including discussion of the conditions that drive
broad adoption of these assets and the implications for the U.S.
financial system and consumers. 

The executive order also places the highest urgency on research and
potential development of the U.S. central bank digital currency. 

The government alone does not solve these problems, and definitely not a
government that stays in its silos.  Therefore, we’ll continue to
partner with all stakeholders — including industry, labor, consumer, and
environmental groups, international allies and partners — to identify
actions we can take to foster responsible innovation in the digital
asset ecosystem, while mitigating the very real risk. 

Again, this executive order signals the beginning, not the conclusion,
of this administration’s work around digital assets.  As this ecosystem
evolves, so will our approach. 

And with that, I will give it back to you, \[senior administration
official\].

Q    Hi, thank you so much for doing this.  I just am looking at a map
that shows nine countries have already started — you know, launched a
currency.  There’s 15 pilots underway; 16 countries have them in
development.  Is the United States kind of getting to this market and
this sector too late? 

And if you are now launching a 180-day study, you know, don’t you even
put it off any further?  So how quickly can you go after the — after
these reports come in?  And is there a risk of being at a competitive
disadvantage to China and others?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Maybe I’ll start on that, Andrea. 
Thanks for the question.  I think the first thing to note from the EO is
we’re placing the highest urgency on the effort to assess the potential
benefits and the risks of a digital dollar on payment systems, on
financial stability, on national security, on the implications for human
rights, and financial inclusion. 

And these are critical design — all of these implications lead to
critical design decisions.  And we’ve got to be very — very deliberate
about that analysis because the implications of our moving in this
direction are profound for the country that issues the world’s primary
reserve currency. 

So, look, we can move quickly, but we can also move in a way that’s
smart and that’s inclusive of the stakeholders both within our
government and certainly outside our government.

Oh, I should say also on your second question, you know, on the digital
one: I mean, here I want to be — I want to be very, very direct with my
answer.  The primacy of the dollar — the U.S. dollar — it’s underpinned
by fundamental advantages that the United States has held for a long
time and continues to hold: credible and longstanding commitments to
transparency, our rule of law, the contractual obligations and rights
that everyone enjoys, the deepest and most liquid financial markets in
the world, sound economic governance, and the full independence of our
Federal Reserve system.  So those are the institutional features, the
competitive advantages that give the dollar its primacy.   
  
     And really, the dollar’s role has been and will continue to be
crucial to the stability of the international monetary system as a
whole.  Foreign central bank digital currencies — I mean, their
introduction by themselves do not threaten this dominance.   
  
     But, you know, we are — we are constantly assessing and monitoring
any developments that relate to a core policy objective of ours, which
is to maintain the centrality of the dollar in global financial markets
and in the global economy.  
  
     Q    Hi.  My first question is just logistical.  What is the
timeline for some of the reports to be delivered or action to be
taken?  
  
     The second one is: What has your conversation been like with
industry in developing this executive order?  You know, how have those
conversations gone?  What’s the tenor of them?  And do you expect that
they will be on board with the principles that you’ve laid out?  
  
     SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  So I’m happy to start on that and
then invite my colleagues to join.  
  
     So on the timeframes, the executive order includes various
timeframes consistent with the complexity of the particular reports and
how much work has been done.  
  
     So one of the key parts of the executive order is we want to fully
leverage innovation while managing the risks.  And that means taking a
careful look at both of those components and really bringing together
stakeholders so that we make these decisions — as \[senior
administration official\] noted, these are important decisions and we
make them in a way that really sets us up for the long-term benefits and
implications.  
  
     So the EO will have a range of timeframes — some shorter, some 60
to 90 days; some longer, 180 days — in order to allow for that.  
  
     And with regard to the engagement with industry, we’ve done a
number of what we call “Crypto Sundays” where we brought in innovators
on the technology side, individuals on the financial side to really
understand the different elements of cryptocurrencies — for example, the
types of services it will enable, like cross-country remittances —
bringing down the cost of that, enabling the speed of that — as well as
innovation in financial markets and, on the flip side, how the
governance and design can be — and the technology of that can be
navigated to ensure we manage some of the risks as well.  
  
     So we’ve done extensive engagement to both be informed and also to
test out ideas in the development, which was extensive, of this EO.  
  
     Q    Hey.  I wanted to ask about next steps once these reports come
in.  Is there a timeline for when you would want to maybe start thinking
about regulation on some of these topics?  
  
     And then my other question is — you mentioned sanctions at the top
of the call.  I don’t see them mentioned in the fact sheet.  But are the
sanctions and the concerns that have been raised about crypto being a
workaround — are those going — is that going to be mentioned in this
executive order?  
  
     SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  \[Senior administration
official\], you want to speak to that?  Or —  
  
     SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  I don’t know.  \[Senior
administration official\], do you want to talk about the sanctions
aspect?  
  
     SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah.  Maybe, \[senior
administration official\], if you want to start on regulation and then
\[senior administration official\] and I can do sanctions?  
  
     SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Sure.  So, look, I — we don’t want
to pre-judge what we’re going to do before we’ve — the agencies have had
time to do their work and produce their reports and analysis that we are
asking them to do.  
  
     That said, I think the entire premise of this executive order and
the spirit behind it is that this is a growing area, an area that is
presenting increasing risks and also potential opportunities, and that
it’s important that we very quickly fully document and understand what
those are and move quickly to address them.  
  
     So my expectation would be that once the reports are finished on
the accelerated timeline that the executive order requires that we would
move quickly to try to act on the recommendations that they are
providing — that they provide.  
  
     \[Senior administration official\], do you want to talk about
sanctions?  
  
     SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Sure.  \[Senior administration
official\], I’ll start on this, and if there’s anything I miss, please
add onto mine.  
  
     So, first thing to say here is the U.S. government has long taken
actions, including under law enforcement and existing Treasury
authorities to combat the use of cryptocurrency to evade sanctions.  And
right now, the administration is driving a priority effort on combatting
the misuse of virtual currency.  
  
     This was launched as part of the U.S. counter-ransomware strategy
that has been underway for several months.  And the administration will
continue to aggressively combat the misuse of cryptocurrency, including
the use of it to evade U.S. sanctions.  And that stance equally applies
to the — to the Russia-Ukraine crises, as it does to any other nation or
regime or non-state actor that seeks to undermine U.S. national
security.  
  
     I will say, on Russia, in particular, the use of cryptocurrency we
do not think is a viable workaround to the set of financial sanctions
we’ve imposed across the entire Russian economy and, in particular, to
its central bank.  
  
     And, \[senior administration official\], over to you for anything I
missed.  
  
     SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  No, I think you really covered it
all, \[senior administration official\].  We’re building on work that’s
been underway over the last six to nine months really to counter use of
cryptocurrency as part of ransomware and — including working with
international partners on anti-money laundering.  
  
     And hopefully, while we don’t see it in the current context in
terms of Russia itself, the current crisis is a good opportunity for us
to double down on that international work and help our partners build
capacity to actually implement that anti-money laundering or
cryptocurrency rules that we very much want to have in place.

Q    Thanks so much for doing the call.  And I don’t mean to be
facetious here, but I’d love to know sort of how you characterize the
importance of this executive order. 

It strikes me looking at it that a lot of this is ground that’s been
trod before, particularly when it comes to central bank digital
currency.  We just saw the report — the initial report from the Board of
Governors, the subsequent report from the Reserve Bank of Boston, and it
just seems like they’ve begun to dig into these issues in much the same
way. 

And, you know, as you talk about the kind of cross-agency work on
cybersecurity, certainly the Deputy Attorney General has talked a lot
about the role the Justice Department is going to play looking into
these issues, I just wonder if you see this as a reset or something more
than that. 

I mean, I’ve listened to the CFTC chairman, the FCC chairman talk about
what they see as their regulatory role here.  And I guess I’m just
struggling, looking at the factsheet, to understand how this advances
the work that has been done by the administration thus far.  Is it,
again, to reset it, or to pull it under one agency or umbrella?  Just
how would you convey the importance of this to somebody who is wondering
what the notional progress is from seeing this EO.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Please go ahead, \[senior
administration official\].  I’ll follow you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  I’m happy to.  And then we’ll work this
— you can tell the close partnership among the three of us on this
work. 

So, first, there hadn’t previously been an organized effort to bring
together the expertise and authorities of the entire U.S. government to
inform a holistic approach to digital assets.  And, in this case really,
the partnership — the White House and specifically the National Security
Advisor, the Economic Adviser chair — they’ll share this effort to
ensure that we’re bringing together our national security and our
economic policy in a coordinated way. 

So, you’re correct.  There’s been work done by Treasury, there’s been
work done by financial regulators, but really pulling together the
questions around consumer and investor protection, financial stability,
and systemic and disparate risk — bringing that together and then, with
a common approach, laying out a coordinated path is really the game
changer here.

\[Senior administration official\], over to you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, I mean, just to add to what you
said, I think the implications — we know the implications of potentially
issuing a digital dollar are profound.  They’re extraordinarily
wide-ranging.

So, this EO pulls together the expertise from across the U.S.
government.  It also pulls — pulls in expertise views and perspectives
from a range of stakeholders in our — in the country. 

And, you know, this is all about — this is all about the future of the
payments system in this country, the future of credit creation,
commercial banking.  We know the implications for national security, our
ability to show leadership in setting global payment standards for
privacy and security, but also reinforcing the efficacy of sanctions or
potentially influencing the growth of private cryptocurrencies that we
know are growing to a material scale and, in some cases, have
facilitated illicit finance and financial stability. 

All of these issues are tied up in the question of whether to issue a
digital currency, and, if so, how to do so in a way that advances our
strategic objectives. 

And so this — this is a way to organize ourselves with urgency so that
we have a coherent and coordinated view on digital assets and that it’s
articulated at the very highest level of our government.  That’s why
we’re doing it.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, this is \[senior administration
official\].  I would just add to what \[senior administration
officials\] have said: that it’s notable because this is the President
articulating his views about what our interests and concerns are in this
space.  In fact, that is notable in and of itself. 

And I think it’s also important that — the emphasis that this document
places on potential risks and the need to mitigate those risks.  You
know, in a world — we live in a world where, you know, approaching 20
percent of Americans have invested in or traded or used
cryptocurrencies.  This is not a niche issue anymore.   And it’s
profoundly important that we have the right tools to mitigate the risks
to consumers, to investors, and, frankly, to the entire financial
system. 

And as \[senior administration officials\] said, getting — articulating
those interests, getting all the work that has already been happening at
agencies, getting that organized, getting the agencies talking with each
other as appropriate to adequately address these issues — all of that is
very important.

Q    Hi, folks.  Thanks for taking this.  I guess — some of my questions
have been answered.  I guess I wanted to circle back on, I think, the
Crypto Sundays that \[senior administration official\] mentioned.  How
many of those did you guys do?  And was it only sort of innovators and
industry representatives present?  Or did you also have, you know, some
of the academics who have studied, you know, financial stability risks,
consumer protection risks, governance issues that are present in the
crypto market?  Thanks.  Academics and other — you know, other — other,
I guess, experts and stuff.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  So, the less I share, you know, how
often we work Sundays — I won’t go into how many Sundays there were, but
will go into the question about who was included. 

There were — you know, our goal was noting this is a new space and
really wanting to learn from as broad a space as possible and test those
ideas.  It did include academics, innovators, to your point, as well as
individuals from the sector as well.

And I want to emphasize, as well, the points that \[senior
administration officials\] made.  You know, you see as well we tasked a
number of studies in the EO to emphasize that we — this is an area needs
some deep reflection to ensure that we can move out quickly following
that and making some key decisions, both from a policy and an
implementation perspective.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, I would just add that there’s
also meetings with consumer groups and other groups that are focused on
some of those risks and that, you know, we purposefully tried to solicit
views from experts and academics who have a diversity of viewpoints
about the potential risks and benefits of cryptocurrency.  So, we tried
to really get the full spectrum of the user.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  And I don’t — I can’t recall, just to
be sure — I think, \[senior administration official\], you mentioned it
just now — but we also heard quite a bit from those who want to solve
the problems associated with financial inclusion.  You know, we know as
recently as 2020, I think, over 5 percent of American households were
unbanked.  That’s if not the highest, among the highest percentage among
G7 countries.  And there’s a — there’s a multiple of that share that’s
underbanked. 

And so we heard quite a bit about the reasons why those who are unbanked
or underbanked are facing issues with financial inclusion, and many of
them relate to high minimum balances or high fees they have to face in
the existing architecture.  And so, it was important to hear their
perspective and to understand how this effort can help solve that
problem.

Q    Hi, thank you for taking my questions.  The last comment actually
was very helpful because I’m interested in the comments that were made
about how the current financial system doesn’t serve many Americans. 
And I was hoping you could provide a bit more information from the
surveys that you talked about regarding unbanked individuals investing
in cryptocurrency.  Is there — are there numbers that you might have
regarding that? 

And then one other question.  I’ve heard from sources — quite a few
sources that say that this EO has not a lot to do with the current war
in Ukraine, but I am curious about the timing of the executive order and
if that was factored in whatsoever to it’s being released now.  Any
information on that would also be helpful.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Maybe I’ll start.  I’m sure — I’m sure
both \[senior administration officials\] would like to add perspective.

First, on your last question, we’ve been working on this EO for many,
many months, updating well before early November when Russia began to
amass troops on Ukraine’s border.

In terms of the problems we’re trying to solve — and I’ll come to — I
think \[senior administration official\] should speak to the financial
inclusion issue.  But, you know, the payment system right now is quite
costly in this country and, in some cases, quite slow, especially for
payments across borders. 

You know, you can look to a number of objective analyses that show
Americans pay over, I think, 2 percent of GDP in payment services.  And
a lot of that has to do with high fees for credit cards.  And the
primary payment source, which is bank deposits, they tend to get
compensated with relatively low interest rates compared to wholesale
money market rates, for example.

And, you know, it takes a long time for checks to clear, and wire
transfers sometimes take even longer.  And so these are problems that
are worth solving, worth understanding.  And that’s part of this effort.

You know, you referenced the financial inclusion surveys.  A lot — the
numbers I was citing come from the FDIC, and I think they cite that over
5 percent of American households are unbanked and about 18 percent of
households are underbanked.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yes, just to add to what \[senior
administration official\] said.  I — you know, we — we have a clear
problem with lack of access to basic banking services, as \[senior
administration official\] has detailed. 

Our payment system for consumers, in many cases, is quite slow, and it
takes a while for a check to actually be deposited into your account. 
And that delay can end up being quite costly to people who need that
payment for — to pay the rent, or pay utility bills, and so on. 

You know, what we are trying — one of the things that we are trying to
do here is to fully understand how can digital assets help, if at all,
in solving those problems.  I think that just the very fact that they
are digital does not, you know, magically solve these problems.  And
it’s not — based on what we know so far, it’s not the case that these
assets completely eliminate transaction costs.  There are a variety of
costs associated with holding and transferring them that resemble some
of the problems that we have in our current payment system. 

So, the point is, there’s at least potential here to try to address a
very serious problem that mainly affects, you know, lower-income,
middle-class Americans.  And so we really want to try to get to the
bottom of what we can do and how it would be possible to nurture
innovation so it does help those folks rather than — rather than hurt
them.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thank you, everyone, for joining our
call this evening. 

As a reminder, the contents of this call are under embargo until 6:00
a.m. tomorrow morning, and the contents of this call should be
attributed to a “senior administration official.”  Thank you.

 6:53 P.M. EST
