---
category: press-briefings
date: '2022-03-31'
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2022/03/31/background-press-call-by-senior-administration-officials-on-president-bidens-plan-to-respond-to-putins-price-hike-at-the-pump/
published_time: 2022-03-31 14:06:30-04:00
title: "Background Press Call by Senior Administration Officials on President\_Biden\u2019\
  s Plan to Respond to Putin\u2019s Price Hike at the\_Pump"
---
 
Via Teleconference

10:51 A.M. EDT

MS. SIMONS:  Thank you so much for joining this call.  As a reminder,
this call is on background as “senior administration officials” and is
not under embargo.  
  
     On this call, our senior administration officials will provide an
overview on President Biden’s plan to respond to Putin’s price hike at
the pump.  We will take some questions at the end.  
  
     Not for reporting but for your awareness, the speakers on the call
today are \[senior administration official\], \[senior administration
official\], and \[senior administration official\].  
  
     With that, I will now turn it over to \[senior administration
official\].  
  
     SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Great.  Thanks so much for
everyone joining.  The President will be speaking this afternoon on the
effect of Putin’s price hike on gas prices for American families.  
  
     Prices at the pump right now are up almost $1 since Vladimir Putin
accelerated his military buildup in January.  That’s because Russian oil
now is coming off the market.  The United States banned the import of
Russian oil, which Republicans and Democrats in Congress called for and
supported.  It was the right thing to do.  
  
     And as the United States and others aren’t buying Russian oil,
supply is dropping and the price has increased.  
  
     The President has said from the start that standing up to Putin’s
aggression would never be painless, but he is committed to doing
everything he can to help American families.  That’s why today he is
announcing a two-part plan to bring American families relief.  
  
     Part one involves immediately increasing the supply of oil as a
wartime bridge to greater domestic production.  Part two is charting a
path towards real American energy independence by accelerating the clean
energy transition so that we are no longer reliant on foreign oil.  
  
     Starting with part one, which is about immediately increasing
supply: The fact is that there is nothing standing in the way of
domestic oil production, which is expected to increase by a million
barrels a day this year alone.  
  
     U.S. oil companies are recording their largest profits in years and
can put those profits toward productive use.  While some companies have
already announced they are increasing immediate production, too many are
choosing right now to make extraordinary profits without investing in
more supply.  
  
     That’s why, today, the President is proposing a “use it or lose it”
policy to incentivize companies to produce more in the short term with
the resources they already have.  
  
     Right now, the oil and gas industry is sitting on more than 9,000
unused but approved permits for production on federal lands and more
than 12 million unused acres.  
  
     Congress should make companies pay fees on unused wells on federal
lands and on acres of public land that they are sitting on without
producing.  
  
     You know, the industry has indicated that they can get online an
additional million barrels per day this year, as I said.  That is
something that we need, that they should be doing.  But we know it will
take months, not days, for that production to come online, including
through the kinds of measures the President is laying out today to
encourage additional production.  
  
     We need a bridge to that additional supply.  That’s why the
President is announcing a historic release of a million barrels a day
for the next six months from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve.  
  
     That release will immediately shore up global supplies.  These
barrels will be a wartime bridge to additional U.S. production and other
production that we expect later this year.  
  
     Importantly, from rev- — with revenues from that sale, we’ll
restock the reserve when prices are lower.  And the Department of Energy
already has that authority.  That can also incentivize the additional
production we need this year, knowing that those purchases will occur in
the future at a lower price when we’re through this emergency.  
  
     This release is being coordinated with allies and partners around
the world.  Together, our combined efforts will supply well over 1
million barrels per day to the market.  
  
     This will be the largest release from reserves over time that has
been done, so it is a historic release.  
  
     These actions will increase our immediate supply and help us meet
the immediate emergency and address the lack of supply as a result of
Putin’s actions.  
  
     The second part of President Biden’s plan is to declare real
American energy independence for the long term so that Americans aren’t
subject to the kind of volatility in the oil market and at the pump that
we now see due to Putin’s actions.  
  
     I’ll now turn it over to \[senior administration official\] to talk
more about that.  
  
     SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Great.  Thanks, \[senior
administration official\].  And thanks, everybody.   
  
     Look, President Biden knows that the path to real American energy
independence depends on reducing our reliance on foreign oil and on
fossil fuels, and that the path to that energy security runs through
clean energy.  
  
     That’s why President Biden is calling on Congress to pass his
landmark plan to speed the transition to a cleaner energy future made
here in the United States of America.  
  
     Implementing the President’s climate plans would save Americans
more than $900 a year in gasoline from the adoption of electric and
hydrogen vehicles.  It would save Americans $500 a year by increasing
the use of clean electricity to power homes, not only on the grid but in
the household as well — technologies like heat pumps and solar and
storage.  
  
     And altogether, this would create millions of good-paying union
jobs — jobs that cannot be outsourced.  
  
     Together, these actions would move us towards freeing ourselves
from dependence on fossil fuels and, certainly, on sourcing outside of
North America.

And President Biden, of course, is not waiting on Congress to take
action, and this week alone is illustrative of that push to achieve real
American energy independence.

One example of that, that he will announce today, is taking the next
step in using the Defense Production Act by issuing an authorization for
use of the DPA to secure American supplies of the critical materials
needed to boost our clean energy economy.  That is specifically focused
on the procurement of the tools needed to build batteries here in the
United States — batteries that will go into electric vehicles, batteries
that will help us support a cleaner electricity grid.  And all of this
to be done in a way that respects and really sets the best — the highest
standards on labor, on environment, on engagement with communities, and
with Tribal Nations. 

Second, he will make $3.2 billion available to states, Tribes, and
territories for the weatherization of homes through the Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law.  That’s 10x the amount of historic funding levels
that will help electrify and make efficient homes all around the
country.

The third is advancing a set of strong energy efficiency standards
designed to lower consumer and small-business costs.  These are the
appliance efficiency and equipment efficiency standards set by the
Department of Energy.  The President will talk about the 100 actions
that his administration will take by the end of this year that will save
families $100 annually through more efficiency in these appliances and
equipment.

And finally, he will talk about the upcoming finalization of new fuel
economy standards for cars and trucks that will save drivers money at
the pump through more efficient vehicles — combining more production
here at home in the short run to meet the emergency situation that
\[senior administration official\] described, with a strategy that
drives a reduced dependence on fossil fuels and an increased production
of homemade clean energy means more energy security.  That is what real
American energy independence is all about, and that’s the plan the
President will speak to today.

MS. SIMONS:  All right.  Thank you so much, \[senior administration
officials\]. 

We’ll now take some questions.  If you can use the “raise hand” feature,
we’ll try and get to as many of you as we can in our allotted time.

The first question will go to Justin Sink at Bloomberg.

Q    Hey, guys, can you hear me? 

MS. SIMONS:  Yep.

Q    Great.  So, I have two quick questions.  The first was how you guys
were planning to deal with the Jones Act to move this amount of
product.  And the second was if you had any more details on the partner
release of strategic oil that would be part of this.  Is it coordinated
through the IEA?  Do you have a sense of how much and how soon we would
see those sort of additional releases from partners?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Sure.  So, I’ll take that — the first
question and then turn it over to \[senior administration official\].

When it comes to the Jones Act, the administration is obviously
releasing a historic amount of oil through this action by the President
— over the next six months, a million barrels a day.  We are also
committed to fully complying with the Jones Act and the President’s Made
in America commitment.

A sizable portion of the release of a million barrels a day will be
carried by pipeline.  In fact, in the most recent reserve drawdown, the
vast majority of the sales, 85 percent, were delivered via pipeline,
while 15 percent have been slated for shipment by sea.

However, shipping is likely to also be needed to transport oil to parts
of the country not serviced by pipelines.  Based upon the support
offered by American carriers and labor unions, we expect the Jones
Act-qualified vessels will be available to meet those needs. 

However, given the historic volumes we plan to release, it is also
possible that Jones Act-qualified vessels may not always be available to
carry additional shipments in a timely manner. 

When that is the case, the administration stands ready to promptly
process Jones Act waiver requests to ensure orderly and timely delivery
of oil.  Several agencies have already coordinated to make this process
work smoothly.  We will be receiving requests seven days a week, and we
will work to process any waiver requests quickly with the goal of
providing a response within two days.

On your second question, I’ll now turn it over to \[senior
administration official\].

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks so much.  I really appreciate
the question.  Regarding working with partners and allies, this is an
effort and a cadence we’ve been doing for the last several weeks and
months. 

Just most recently, the President was in Europe, where he talked about
the importance of energy supply with his G7 counterparts.  And earlier
this week, we gave a readout of the call he had with the Quint, where he
again — once again, they discussed the importance of ensuring energy
supply in the markets. 

And so, regarding the collective action and actions taken with other
countries, as you all know, the United States has a much larger reserve
than other countries.  And the President has said he would not hesitate
to act to protect Americans from Putin’s price hike.

I will not speak to what other countries will do, but I will note that
tomorrow there is a meeting of the International Energy Agency to
further discuss collaborative efforts to address energy markets and
supply, and we will not prejudge those outcomes.

MS. SIMONS:  Next question will go to Weijia Jiang from CBS News.

Q    Thank you so much, and thanks for taking my question.  To better
understand how this latest release is going to bring down gas prices,
can you share what the deficit is in the global market supply of oil
since the U.S. and other nations sanctioned Russian oil?  In other
words, every day, how many millions of oil — barrels of oil have been
removed from the market supply?

And then, just more basically, you know, once this release is triggered,
how quickly could that actually have an impact on U.S. gas prices? 
Thank you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah.  So, to take your question — so,
thanks for the questions.

First, when it comes to the effect on global supply, what we know is
that there is reduced global supply right now.  Obviously, outside
analysts have given us sort of a range of estimates of the reduction in
supply.  We know, for instance, that, you know, across points of last
year, the United States was importing 700,000 barrels per day of crude
and petroleum product from Russia; we obviously have now banned those
imports.

What we know is that there is a lack of supply and that the kind of
action that the President is taking today, this historic action — the
million barrels per day that will be released from the reserve over the
next six months as we see a ramp-up in U.S. production and production
elsewhere — will be very important in helping to address that lack of
supply.

When it comes to, you know, how quickly will this translate into relief:
You know, obviously, we’ve seen, even overnight, markets responding to
the initial news of a reserve release — where we’ve seen, you know, with
a reduction in the oil price. 

But we’re not focused right now on sort of the immediate, short-term
price movements.  What we’re focused on is a real challenge we have. 
You know, looking ahead with Russian supply coming off the market, we
want to address that lack of supply.  We know and believe that that will
then translate into helping to provide relief to American consumers.  We
think that this historic release from the reserve will be an important
step in that direction, will have meaningful effects.  And then, in
combination with actions by other countries taken around the world, it
will mean we will have well in excess of a million barrels per day being
released from reserves around the world in response.

MR. SIMONS:  Next, we’ll go to Jeremy Diamond.

Q    Hey, thanks very much for doing this.  Just to follow up on
Weijia’s question, you just said that you think this release will be an
important step in the direction of helping to reduce gas prices.  But do
you not have an estimate of how quickly that will happen or by how much
Americans can expect to see their gas prices reduced, say in three
months from now or six months from now?

And then secondly, what are your plans in terms of replenishing the
Strategic Petroleum Reserve?  Thanks.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah.  So, what we — where we’re
focused is a structural challenge right now in the oil market as a
result of Putin’s actions.  We know that there is too little supply to
meet demand, as Russian oil was coming off the market.  Obviously,
United States banned Russian imports; others also are not purchasing. 
We know that there’s a reduction in supply.  And we are focused on the
difference, that deficit between supply and demand, and that this
historic action — a million barrels per day — will help to address that
in coordination with other countries around the world.

You know, when it comes to the particular price effects, there is good
evidence from studies of prior reserve releases that it can have
significant effects in that sort of interim period, that short-term
period, in order to provide relief.  That’s where we’re focused.  This
is a bridge towards greater supply coming on the market from production
both in the United States and elsewhere.

When it comes to the refilling, restocking the reserves, all of the
funds that will be attained by the Department of Energy as a result of
the sale of this oil will then go to restocking the reserve.  That is an
authority that the Department of Energy already has; that’s how they can
deploy those funds.  We expect that to occur.  Once the oil price has
come down, we are no longer in an emergency.  You know, I direct you to
the Department of Energy for more details on that.

The final thing I would say: You know, our commitment to restocking the
reserve in order for it to be ready for future emergencies also can have
good effects right now.  It can encourage the additional production we
need right now in order to respond to Putin’s action.  So there really
is a double benefit, both making sure that we are ready for future
emergencies and also encouraging the production we need immediately in
order to respond to Putin’s actions.

MS. SIMONS:  Next, we’ll go to Josh Boak from the Associated Press.

Q    Thanks so much again for doing this.  You’ve released — you’ve had
two prior releases from the Strategic Reserve.  And you’re describing
this release, which is much larger as a bridge.  Has the administration
had talks or conversations with oil companies to ensure that the
increased production will be out there and that this will be a bridge,
since this also would reduce prices and presumably some of the
incentives to pump more?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, appreciate the question, Josh. 
So, the President has had discussions with leaders in the industry. 
Senior administration officials have been closely monitoring and also in
discussions with the industry as well.

You know, as I said, we believe that the industry needs to step up, it
needs to do more, it needs to be investing in additional production. 

There are companies out there that have said they are; that are doing
the right thing right now in increasing production.  You know, that’s
where, for instance, the million barrels a day that we — in additional
production that we expect this year comes from.

However, there are also companies out there that haven’t said that. 
And, in fact, you know, some leaders in the industry who have said that
it doesn’t matter where the price point is, they’re not going to produce
more; they’re instead focused on returning dividends and other
distributions to shareholders and their owners. 

We don’t think that’s the right thing.  We think these companies need to
be stepping up, given the moment that we are in.  There are some that
have.  And obviously — and I think you’ll hear the President say today:
There is nothing standing in their way.  There are, you know, thousands
of unused

permits right now out there.  There are the acres that aren’t being
developed and they should be, given the current moment.

When it comes to the reserve and its effect on incentives, we do think
that this is a bridge.  And this is a discussion we’re having with the
industry, but we — and I want to focus on, you know, two aspects of it. 
It, obviously, can help address the real lack of supply that exists
right now — that difference between supply and demand as a result of
Putin’s actions. 

But we are committed, as I said, to restocking the Strategic Petroleum
Reserve.  Once we’re through this emergency and prices are down, our
commitment to do that then provides an important signal to the market
that, you know, additional production should be coming online, in part
because the government will be purchasing that oil to restock the
reserve, looking ahead to prepare for future emergencies.

MS. SIMONS:  And next we’ll go to Kayla Tausche from CNBC.

Q    Hi, guys.  Thank you so much for doing this.  I just wanted to ask
for a little bit of clarification on the 1 million barrels.  It looks,
from the release, like the 1 million barrel total is the U.S. and allies
combined.  But I know it was also just said that other allies and the
IEA would be discussing this at a meeting tomorrow and that their policy
positions might not be final.  So, could you just clarify that the 1
million barrels is specifically from the U.S. reserves?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yes, the United States will be
releasing 1 million barrels per day, on average, for the next six
months, and that will come from U.S. reserves.  In combination with
releases from other countries around the world, we expect it to be well
in excess of 1 million barrels per day.

     MS. SIMONS:  Next, James Politi from the Financial Times.

Q    Thank you very much.  I was just wondering, will there be any
consequences for U.S. energy producers that don’t step up in this moment
and produce more oil?  What would those consequences be?

And in terms of the price for repurchasing and restocking the reserve,
is that — you know, are you thinking a particular price where you could
say, okay, well, it’s low enough now that we can buy; that it’s time to
kind of shift?

And finally, what’s the state of the discussion with the Saudis?  And
should we be expecting them to increase production later this year as
part of getting well over a million barrels per day?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  So, first, when it comes to the
industry, we do think that there should be

consequences if you’re sitting on unused approved permits for production
on federal lands and also undeveloped acres of land that have been
leased.  That’s why the President will today call for a “use it or lose
it” policy that will charge companies if they’re sitting on — on wells
that aren’t producing and leases that they’re not developing.  We think
that can help encourage additional production this year.

The — and I’m forgetting what your second question was.  Sorry.

We might’ve lo- — we can — and I can — I remember your last question was
on the OPEC, and I can turn it over for — to \[senior administration
official\] to respond to that.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Great.  So, regarding your OPEC/Saudi
question, as you know, OPEC took a decision this morning, and we will
not — you know, OPEC Plus will make the decisions as it always has, and
we continue to be in touch with relevant OPEC Plus partners on energy
security and supply.

The President has been clear that he will act, if needed, to provide
additional oil supply to calm turbulent markets.  And when there’s an
oil disruption, such as the one that we’re facing today, we know that
consumers need relief now and that’s why the President has acted.

And I’m — I’m remembering the second question was on restocking the
reserves.  The bottom line is we are committed to doing so when the —
when prices come down, both to prepare for future emergencies and also
to provide the right signal to the market now.

We’ll defer to the Department of Energy on exactly how we’re going — on
exactly the execution of that.  But that is our strong commitment and an
authority that the Department of Energy has.

     MS. SIMONS:  And we’ll do one final question.  Timothy Gardner from
Reuters.

Q    Thank you.  Two questions.  First, when exactly will we see the
first million barrels of this release come to markets?  And secondly,
could you — obviously, with

Saudi Arabia and UAE and others playing a very important role in oil
markets, can you say when this plan was communicated to them?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  So, on the first question, the barrels
will be coming to market very soon, so we’re already releasing barrels
from the previous releases.  We expect the Department of Energy to soon
issue a notice, which would put additional — the additional barrels on
the market starting in the month of May — for May delivery.  And we’ll
defer — we’ll refer you to them for additional operational details.  But
these barrels will be coming on the market very, very soon, and we
expect a notice of sale that would begin making them available in the
month of May.

And on the question around consultations, we’ll turn it over to \[senior
administration official\].

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thank you.  As we’ve always done, we’ve
always been in touch with relevant OPEC partners on energy security and
supply.  And I’ve had those conversations over the last several weeks.

MS. SIMONS:  All right.  Thanks to everyone so much for joining.  Please
feel free to send me your questions.  We will do our best to get you an
answer. 

And I hope everyone has a great day and tunes into the President’s
remarks this afternoon.  Thank you.

 11:18 A.M. EDT
