---
tags: press-briefings
date: '2022-03-18'
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2022/03/18/background-press-call-by-a-senior-administration-official-on-president-bidens-call-with-president-xi-jinping-of-china/
published_time: 2022-03-18 17:06:15-04:00
title: "Background Press Call by a Senior Administration Official on President\_Biden\u2019\
  s Call with President Xi Jinping of\_China"
---
 
Via Teleconference

2:53 P.M. EDT

     SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thank you.  Thanks, everyone, for
joining.  I just — at the top, I want to say, you know, incredibly sorry
for the delay today.  We really try for this not to ever happen.  And
just some scheduling and logistical challenges today put us a little bit
back.  So, again, true apologies, and we know how important your time
is.

So, that being said, you know, welcome to the call.  This call is on
background.  It is attributable to a “senior administration official.” 
And this call is embargoed until the end of the call.

For your awareness and not for reporting, the speaker on this call is
\[senior administration official\].  And with that, I’ll turn it over to
you to give some remarks, and then we’ll take some questions.  Thanks,
again, everyone.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks, \[senior administration
official\].  And I’ll just reiterate: Everybody, thanks for your
patience today.  And I’ll, with that, just get right to it.

You all have hopefully now seen the readout that has gone out.  So, just
building on that with a little bit more detail for all of you, you know,
the call between President Biden and President Xi this morning lasted
approximately two hours.  Of course, it was conducted by a secure video
link. 

I would say the conversation was direct.  It was substantive and it was
detailed.  The two leaders spent the preponderance of their time
discussing Russia’s unprovoked and unjustified invasion of Ukraine, as
well as the implications of the crisis for U.S.-China relations and the
international order.

President Biden shared with President Xi a detailed review of how things
have developed to this point, his assessment of the situation today, and
President Biden underscored his support for a diplomatic resolution to
the crisis.   
  
     The President described our assessment of Putin’s actions and his
miscalculations.  He also described the unity of the United States and
its Allies and partners, the unprecedented coordination with our
European, NATO, and Indo-Pacific partners, and the overwhelming global
unity and condemnation of Russia — Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, as well
as the support for Ukraine.

President Biden made clear the implication and consequences of China
providing material support — if China were to provide material support —
to Russia as it prosecutes its brutal war in Ukraine, not just for
China’s relationship with the United States but for the wider world.  

And he stressed concerns, as you’ve heard us speak about more broadly,
that Russia is spreading disinformation about biological weapons in
Ukraine as a pretext for a false-flag operation and underscored concerns
about echoing such disinformation. 

President Xi raised Taiwan.  President Biden reiterated that the United
States remains committed to our one-China policy and is guided by the
Taiwan Relations Act, the Three Joint Communiqués, and the Six
Assurances.  And he underscored the importance of maintaining peace and
stability across the Taiwan Strait. 

The two leaders also discussed the importance of managing competition
between the two countries — between the United States and China — of
addressing areas of strategic risk and maintaining open lines of
communication.  And to that end, they tasked their teams to follow up on
the leaders’ discussion in the days and weeks ahead.

Of course, today’s conversation followed up on National Security Advisor
Jake Sullivan’s meeting with his counterpart in Rome earlier this week
in which the two agreed that the two presidents would speak — again, as
both sides believe that there is no substitute for leader-to-leader
engagement. 

And, as you all know, this call comes amid the intensive engagement
we’ve had with allies and partners in Europe and the Indo-Pacific in
recent weeks. 

And with that, I will be happy to take your questions. 

Q    Hi, \[senior administration official\].  Thanks for doing this. 
First, I wanted to ask if President Biden warned Xi Jinping specifically
about sanctions, or did he refer to more vague consequences should China
provide any support for Russia in the war?  And regardless, what was
Xi’s response to that?

Yeah, I appreciate that. 

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Of course.  Well, thanks, Michael.  So,
you know, as I mentioned, the President described the implications, you
know, if China provides material support to Russia as it prosecutes this
brutal war, but I’m not going to talk — I’m not going to, sort of,
publicly lay out our options from here. 

We’re going to continue to talk directly with China, as well as to our
Allies and partners, about the broader situation.  And I will let the
PRC characterize what Xi Jinping’s comments were.

Q    Thank you.  Do you have an assessment of whether or not China has
made a decision to go down this road with Russia?

And then, second: More broadly, was there any talk of, sort of, the
commercial ramifications that have happened for Russia as a result of
this war, with big Western companies leaving and the prospect that that
could happen to China if they were to get involved in assisting?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks, Aamer.  On your first question,
I’m not going to comment on specifics at this time.

On the question about the actions — the economic responses to Russia and
the private sector: Yeah, I would say, you know, the President, you
know, really laid out in a lot of detail the unified response from not
only, you know, governments around the world but also the private
sector, to Russia’s brutal aggression in Ukraine.

And, you know, the President made clear that, you know, there would be —
that there would likely be consequences for those who are — who would —
who would step in to support Russia at this time.

Q    Thank you.  Can you tell me if the President expressly asked Xi —
Xi Jinping — to intercede with Moscow, with Putin, to stop the war and
specifically to withdraw from (inaudible)?

And did Xi offer in any way to use his influence with Putin to end the
aggression?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks, Ellen.  Yeah, look, you know,
the call wasn’t really — and I mean, the President really wasn’t making
specific requests of China.  He was laying out his assessment of the
situation, what he thinks makes sense, and the implications of certain
actions.

You know, I think our view is that China will make its own decisions,
and so I’d describe that as sort of the nature of the call.  And again,
on any response from President Xi, you know, you’d have to talk to
Beijing.

Q    Hi, everyone.  Thank you so much for doing the call.  Can you tell
us if President Xi made any guarantees to President Biden that he would
not help Russia?

And did the President come away from the call with a sense that
President Xi is ready to condemn the invasion?  Because China’s still
hasn’t done that publicly.  Did President Xi condemn the invasion in
this call, or did President Biden come away with this with a sense that
he will do so?  Thank you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, look, on your first question, you
know, China will make its own decisions.  And I think you probably have
seen the readout that they have put out; I would refer you to that as
their characterization of President Xi’s words.

You know, as I said, I think the President was — President Biden was
candid and direct in discussing his assessment of the situation and, you
know, what he believes would be necessary, in order to find a diplomatic
resolution to the crisis.

But, you know, I think, in terms of what President Xi said, again, I’m
going to leave it to the Chinese side to characterize their words.

MODERATOR:  Can we do our next question, please?

Q    Thanks so much.  And thanks for doing this.  Two questions for
you.  Did President Biden get the sense that President Xi was caught off
guard by the nature of the Russian invasion and how it’s gone?  And
during this two-hour call, did Xi ever refer to it as an invasion?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Sorry, I was taking down notes to make
sure I remember your questions.  
  
     You know, look, on the first question: You know, I think, you know,
the National Security Advisor has — has spoken publicly about our
assessment of Beijing’s reaction to the invasion.  And so, I will just
point you to his comments.  I don’t have them exactly in front of me,
but I think he’s been on the record about this.  
  
     You know, and in terms of how Xi referred to — you know, referred
to the situation, again, I would just point you to their own words as
they have characterized them.

Q    Hi, \[senior administration official\].  Thanks for doing the
call.  Can you just share a little bit of color on whether the President
felt more or less optimistic about where China st- — where President Xi
stands on the issue of Ukraine after this call?  
  
     And just a follow-up: The Chinese readout suggests that President
Xi complained to President Biden about people in the U.S. sending wrong
signals to Taiwan’s independence forces.  Can you detail President
Biden’s response to this?  Thanks.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks so much, Patsy.  Look, I — you
know, I think, as we felt with the conversation in Rome with Director
Yang earlier this week and the conversation with, you know, President Xi
here today, this was really about President Biden being able to lay out
very clearly in substantial detail, with a lot of facts, and a lot of
just — you know, really walking President Xi through the situation,
making very, very clear our views, the views of others, what we have
laid out in the previous months and the actions we’re taking now.  
  
     And I think it was the — I think, from our perspective, we will —
we will see what decisions China makes in the days and weeks ahead.  
  
     And so, I think it was sort of less about coming away with a
particular view out of the conversation today and more about making
sure, again, that they were able to really have that direct, candid and
detailed and very substantive conversation at the leader level.  And we
know there really is no replacement for that.   
  
     So, that’s how I would think about the conversation today.  
  
     In terms of the question about Taiwan, President Biden was very
clear that our policy has not changed, that — you know, he reiterated
our one-China policy based on the Taiwan Relations Act, the Three
Communiqués, the Six Assurances.   
  
     And he underscored, as well, concerns about Beijing’s coercive and
provocative actions across the Taiwan Strait.  President Biden made
clear that we remain opposed to any unilateral changes to the status quo
across the Taiwan Strait.   
  
     And, you know, I would just remind, obviously, that President Biden
himself voted for the Taiwan Relations Act, and he’s firmly committed to
the principles in it, and that the Biden administration has consistently
demonstrated rock-solid support for Taiwan and will continue to do so.  
  
     But, again, you know, President Biden’s response was really about
just reaffirming our continued, consistent policy — very longstanding
policy — while underscoring concerns about Beijing’s coercive and
provocative actions across the Strait.

MODERATOR:  Great.  Thanks, \[senior administration official\].  And
thanks, everyone, for joining.   
  
     You know, again, very sorry for the delay.  You know, I know we’ll
have a press briefing shortly, so hopefully more questions can be taken
there.  And then if there’s still more that you all need, we’re here to
provide any sort of help that you might — you might need.  
  
     So, just as a reminder, this call was on background, attributable
to a “senior administration official.”  And the embargo on the contents
of the call have now lifted.   
  
     So, thanks again, everyone.  Have a good day.

3:07 P.M. EDT
