---
category: press-briefings
date: '2022-03-23'
modified_time: 2022-03-24 06:20:03-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2022/03/23/press-briefing-by-white-house-covid-19-response-team-and-public-health-officials-84/
published_time: 2022-03-23 17:57:06-04:00
title: "Press Briefing by White\_House COVID-\u206019 Response Team and Public Health\_\
  Officials"
---
 
Via Teleconference

3:03 P.M. EDT  
  
     MR. ZIENTS:  Good afternoon.  And thanks for joining us.  Today,
Dr. Walensky will share the latest on the state of the pandemic and the
BA.2 variant, Dr. Fauci will then discuss NIH’s critical role in the
research development of COVID therapeutics, and Secretary Becerra and I
will discuss the clear consequences if Congress fails to provide more
funds for the COVID response.

     Let me start by emphasizing a consistent message you’ll hear from
each of us: We urgently need additional funding from Congress to
continue our fight against COVID. 

     We’ll start with Dr. Walensky.  Dr. Walensky?

     DR. WALENSKY:  Thank you, Jeff.  And good afternoon everyone.  I’m
delighted to be back with you this week.  Let’s start by walking you
through the latest data.

     We have seen cases decrease dramatically over the past few weeks. 
And our national numbers remain close to historic lows, which is really
encouraging.  In some areas, we are now recording small increases even
as cases continue to fall in other areas.

     We continue to closely monitor data from all of our incoming
sources, including waste water surveillance, cases, and
hospitalizations. 

Nationally, the current seven-day daily average of cases is about 28,600
cases per day, a decrease of about 9 percent over the previous week. 

The seven-day average of hospital admissions is about 1,900 per day, a
decrease of about 23 percent over the previous week. 

And the seven-day average daily deaths are about 900 per day, which is a
decrease of about 26 percent over the previous week. 

CDC has been closely tracking the BA.2 sublineage of the Omicron variant
carefully.  The variant has been in the United States for about the past
two months, and it has been slowly increasing in proportion compared to
BA.1. 

This week, we estimate that BA.2 represents about 35 percent of
circulating variants nationally.  As we’re learning from our colleagues
in Europe, Asia, and South Africa, where BA.2 has resulted in varied
peaks of cases, there’s no evidence that BA.2 variant results in more
severe disease, nor does it appear to be more likely to evade our immune
protection. 

However, it does have increased transmission in comparison to the
related BA.1 Omicron variant that circulated in the U.S. this past
winter. 

Over the past week, we have seen a small increase in reported COVID-19
cases in New York state and New York City, and some increases in people
in the hospital with COVID-19 in New England, specifically where the
BA.2 variant has been reaching levels above 50 percent.  This small
increase in cases in the Northeast is something that we are closely
watching as we look for any indication of an increase in severe disease
from COVID-19 and track whether it represents any strain on our
hospitals.  We have not yet seen this so far. 

Nationwide, cases have been steadily decreasing since the Omicron BA.1
surge.  While this is good news, we do expect that cases may continue to
fluctuate, including increases in individual communities, which is
exactly why the COVID-19 Community Level metrics are in place. 

One way that CDC and our public health partners collaborate is by
monitoring potential increases in cases and transmission is through the
COVID-19 wastewater surveillance system.  Currently, we’re seeing a
modest uptick of sites reporting an increase of virus levels in
wastewater in some communities.  In fact, over the past two weeks, we’ve
seen increasing wastewater signals in New York City and parts of New
England, where we are now seeing increases in cases and some increased
hospitalizations. 

But I want to emphasize that these upticks reflected minor increases
from very low levels to still very low levels, but sustained trends over
time can give us an early indication of COVID-19 infections in
communities. 

So these are the areas that we are watching carefully, and an example of
the interplay of our data systems that we use to inform our public
health decisions.  If cases do go up, we have the framework to implement
additional layers of prevention strategies at the local level to swiftly
protect individuals and communities. 

CDC will continue to use all of the tools in our toolbox to closely keep
an eye on any increase in COVID-19 in communities, including early
indicators like wastewater surveillance, any uptick in cases and
hospitalizations, and any changes in our genomic surveillance that
monitors for circling variants. 

I’d like to emphasize that if cases rise from the Omicron variant or any
other variant, we have the tools, vaccines, boosters, tests, and
therapeutics to be prepared.  But continued investment in these tools so
that they are readily available when we need them remains critical. 

I know Jeff and the Secretary will talk more about the consequences of
funding, but from a public health standpoint, it is critical that we
continue to provide people with the tools to keep them, their families,
and their communities safe. 

Thank you.  I’ll now turn it over to Dr. Fauci.

DR. FAUCI:  Thank you very much, Dr. Walensky.  What I’d like to do in
the next couple of minutes is to bring you an update on COVID-19
treatments.

If I have the next slide.

The medical management of individuals with SARS-CoV-2 are essentially
threefold.  One is to control symptoms, which is usually done as an
outpatient for many — in fact, the vast majority — of people who are
infected with SARS-CoV-2.  With serious disease, there’s end-organ
support that we’ve described in the past.  But what I wanted to
emphasize over the next couple of minutes is the issue of antivirals and
immunomodulators, particularly the newest antivirals, with the purpose
of keeping people out of the hospital. 

Next slide. 

As you can see from this schematic, we now have a number of antivirals
in our toolkit for non-hospitalized patients with ca- — with COVID-19
during the Omicron era.  And I want to emphasize “during the Omicron
era” because several of the others — for example, some of the monoclonal
antibodies — were negated by the evolution of the Omicron era.  What you
see on this slide are those interventions which clearly work well to
keep people out of the hospital. 

I want to emphasize for a moment, the one you see on the far right,
bebtelovimab.  I want to talk a little bit about that.

Next slide. 

The FDA authorized this new monoclonal antibody for the treatment of
COVID-19 that retains activity in the Omicron era, and it’s for
individuals that are described on this slide with positive results of
direct viral testing, at a high risk for the progression to severe
disease, and for whom we do not have any other alternative therapies. 

This is very important because — as shown on the next slide — as we get
more variants, we have to make sure — and we have been fortunate for
drugs like Paxlovid and others that they’ve maintained their efficacy
against the variants as they’ve arrer- — as they’ve arisen. 

As you can see on this slide, there have been a number of evolution of
variants.  But note that the babted- — the bebtelovimab actually has no
change in its ability to neutralize.

A word about this particular monoclonal antibody. 

Next slide. 

It was developed from antibodies from a recovered COVID-19 patient,
which is generally the source of all of the monoclonal antibodies.  It
was developed in a collaborative operation with AbCellera and the NIAID
Vaccine Research Center and ultimately developed by Eli Lilly. 

The reason I bring this to your attention is this is the kind of
interaction and work that have been done in collaboration between the
NIH and our industrial partners. 

Getting back to what was said and what you will hear more of: It’s
important to keep up these interactions, which is the importance for
continued funding. 

Next slide. 

And in this regard, Secretary Becerra, who you’ll hear from shortly,
announced the purchase of 600,000 of these treatment courses of this new
monoclonal antibody.  We’ve subcontracted for an additional 500,000. 
But, again, unless we get the funding requested of the Congress, we will
not be able to continue to make these purchases. 

Next slide.

I want to close by just mentioning something that will certainly come up
with discussions.  We continually get asked, “Will we all need a fourth
COVID shot?”  Now this is something that is obviously being pursued and
examined from the standpoint of the data.  Right now, a fourth shot is
recommended for people with severe immunocompromised.  Other nations,
such as the UK, have recommended it for individuals who are elderly and
also for those with immune compromise.

Here in this country, we’re looking at it and letting the data drive
us.  As you know, on April 6th, the FDA will call their VRBPAC to take a
look at the long range of where we might go with new variants and where
a fourth shot fits in with that. 

There’s also the immediate situation of looking at what we might do over
the next few weeks to a month.  And in that regard, two companies —
Moderna and Pfizer — have submitted to the FDA for an EUA for the use of
a fourth shot.  What we can say today is that those data have been
submitted, some are continuing to be accumulated, and will be
appropriately evaluated, as we usually do, with the FDA and ultimately
with the CDC. 

And on the final slide — just another reminder, if you want to get
information about the treatment guidelines, you can go to that website. 
It’s a long website.  But if you don’t remember it, just put NIH.gov and
it would lead you to that. 

I’ll stop there.  And now back to you, Jeff.

MR. ZIENTS:  Well, thank you, Doctors.  Over the past 14 months, we’ve
made tremendous progress in our fight against COVID.  Nearly 220 million
Americans are fully vaccinated.  Two in three eligible adults, including
over 80 percent of eligible seniors, have now received a booster shot. 

As Dr. Fauci just said, we have highly effective treatments, free and
convenient tests, and high-quality masks. 

Bipartisan support from Congress has been key to making this progress. 
But the President and the doctors have made it abundantly clear that we
still have more work to do.

As Dr. Walensky just explained, we’re seeing BA.2 rise in Europe and in
other parts of the world.  And we know cases will fluctuate here at
home. 

If we maintain our preparedness, an increase in cases does not need to
be a cause for alarm like it once was.  We know what tools we need to
fight the virus.  Unfortunately, because of congressional action, we’re
at risk of not having these tools readily available. 

This should be unacceptable to every American.  For months, we’ve made
clear to Congress, on a bipartisan basis, that funding for core COVID
medical supplies — including vaccines, treatments, and tests — was
running out.  Congress has failed to act.  They failed to provide the
necessary funding, and we’re already seeing the consequences. 

Let me turn to Secretary Becerra to describe what’s happening as a
result of Congress’s failure to provide the necessary funding.

Secretary?

SECRETARY BECERRA:  Thanks, Jeff.  As Jeff has said, we’re in a new
moment in our fight against COVID.  We’ve reached this point because so
many Americans have stepped up and done their part and because we’ve had
the resources we need to protect our families and to save lives. 

On numerous occasions, at least six distinct times, Congress has been
there to drive resources where they’ve been needed.  The latest critical
investment came with last year’s American Rescue Plan.  I want to thank
my former colleagues in Congress for the funding that has allowed us to
execute on the President’s pandemic response. 

Execution means administering more than 550 million shots in arms here
at home, distributing more than 7 million treatments to patients across
the country, making hundreds of millions of N95 masks and at-home tests
available to the American people for free, and leaving no community
behind, including by funding more than 1,400 community health centers so
they can get vaccines, treatments, tests, and masks to patients without
charge. 

The President’s COVID-19 Preparedness Plan builds on these efforts to
help America move forward safely, but continued execution requires
continued support from Congress.  And at this stage, our resources are
depleted. 

The fund Congress established to reimburse doctors and other medical
providers for COVID care for Americans — in particular, the uninsured —
is no longer accepting new claims from providers for testing or for
treatment services, as of yesterday. 

The fund will also have to stop accepting new claims for vaccination
services on or about April 5th.  This means doctors, nurses,
pharmacists, labs, and other healthcare providers will no longer get
payments through the fund for providing these pandemic services to
Americans.

On monoclonal antibody treatments, we have had to cancel a purchase for
additional supplies of these treatments which had been planned for this
week.  Our current supply of these therapeutics is projected to start to
run out by late May. 

One of the consequences of diminishing supply or the resources to plan
ahead and invest in future needs is that, on Monday, we had to cut the
supply of monoclonal antibody treatments that we had distributed in the
past to every state.  That distribution to each state was reduced by 35
percent.

     We’re also having to scale back our plans to purchase more doses of
AstraZeneca’s preventive therapies for Americans who are
immunocompromised.  This increases the risk of having an insufficient
supply of this treatment by the fall of this year. 

     The President’s COVID team at the White House and HHS has briefed
Congress on a number of occasions in great detail on our pandemic
preparation, response, and the status of resources.  We’ve provided
information orally and in writing to members as requested.

     Our success in fighting COVID depends on our continued vigilance,
our unwavering support for our scientists, our healthcare heroes, our
essential workers, and our families navigating this COVID world. 

     We’re prepared to execute the President’s plan.  We look forward to
working with Congress, our state and local partners, and every
responsible American to come out of this pandemic in a better place.

Back to you, Jeff.

MR. ZIENTS:  Thanks, Secretary.  I want to outline additional impacts
that will occur over the coming weeks and months if Congress does not
provide the appropriate level of funding for the continued fight against
COVID.

Let me start with vaccinations.  We have enough supply for the
immunocompromised to get a fourth dose and, if authorized in the coming
weeks, enough supply for fourth doses for our most vulnerable, including
seniors.  So we have enough inventory of vaccines to support possible
fourth doses this spring.  However, if the science shows that fourth
doses are needed for the general population later this year, we will not
have the supply necessary to ensure shots are available, free, and easy
to access for all Americans.

Without more funding, we can’t procure the necessary vaccine supply to
support fourth shots for all Americans.  Furthermore, if things change
and there’s a need for a new vaccine, a new formulation — for example, a
variant-specific vaccine — we won’t be able to secure doses for the
American people and we won’t be able to ensure America is first in line
for them.

Not having enough vaccines is completely unacceptable, as vaccines have
proven to be our single most important tool in protecting Americans.  We
should be securing additional supply right now.

Many other countries are already doing so.  In fact, Japan, Vietnam, the
Philippines, and Hong Kong have already secured future booster doses. 

Beyond vaccines, without additional funding, we can’t sustain the
domestic testing manufacturing capacity we’ve built over the past year. 
And because it takes months to ramp back up to rebuild capacity, failure
to invest now will leave us with insufficient testing capacity and
supply if we see another surge in cases and demand for testing increases
once again.  That should not be allowed to happen.

To summarize the consequences of congressional inaction are severe and
they are immediate: the uninsured fund is winding down, fewer lifesaving
monoclonal treatments are being sent to states, fewer treatments
available for the immunocompromised, and we risk not having sufficient
vaccine supply or testing capacity.  These consequences will only get
more significant over time, with less treatments, vaccines, and tests
for the American people.

Congressional inaction also hampers our global response.  We all know
this virus knows no borders, and leaving large unvaccinated populations
worldwide will increase the risk of new deadly variants emerging that
could put Americans at risk.

Under President Biden’s leadership, we’ve donated 1.2 billion vaccine
doses to the world with more than 500 million doses already delivered to
113 countries.  The challenge now is turning these vaccines into
vaccinations — though without more funding, we can’t extend the support
to under-vaccinated countries that they need this year to get shots in
arms. 

The bottom line is we’ve made tremendous progress across the last 14
months in the fight against COVID.  And the President has a plan to
sustain and build on this progress and ensure we remain prepared in the
face of this very unpredictable virus.  But we need Congress to act and
provide $22.5 billion in immediate emergency funding so we can execute
on the plan, so we can be prepared for whatever comes next. 

Importantly, those who have been on the frontlines, Republican and
Democratic governors, hospitals across the country, teachers, and 200
leading public health experts have all called for additional funding for
the COVID response.

Further congressional inaction will set us back, leave us less prepared,
and cost more lives.  There’s no time to waste; Congress needs to act.

With that, let’s open it up for questions.  Over to you, Kevin.

MODERATOR:  Thanks, Jeff.  We have time for a few questions today.  So,
everybody, please keep their questions brief.

First, let’s go to Sabrina Siddiqui at the Wall Street Journal.

Q    Thank you as always for doing the briefing.  I just wanted to
circle back to the BA.2 variant.  Is it your expectation that that will
become the dominant strain here in the U.S.?  And while cases overall,
as you said, are in decline nationally, do you expect that we may still
see an Omicron-type surge as we did in — over the winter?

And how are you defining, you know, the trans- — community transmission
levels in terms of restrictions like masks?  You know, to move from low
to medium to high, is it — is it focused just on hospital admissions or
is it — or is there a certain threshold or benchmark of cases that would
necessitate, for example, bringing back masks?  Thank you.

MR. ZIENTS:  Okay.  Dr. Walensky?

DR. WALENSKY:  Yeah, thank you, Sabrina.  So, we do anticipate and we
have seen over the last eight weeks as we’ve been following BA.2 here
that it is representing an increasing proportion of the cases that we
have.  Now, of course, that is a smaller number of cases, but we do
anticipate over the weeks that we may see it become the predominant
variant here as it has already in in the Northeast.

In terms of how we’re defining our — and what I will say, though, is —
back to what Jeff and I just spoke about — should we see more BA.2, we
actually have the tools — while it is slightly more transmissible than
the original Omicron, our vaccines work, our boosters work, and it does
not indicate more severe disease than the original Omicron.  So those
tools are going to be key in protecting ourselves and our communities
against BA.2.

In terms of our COVID-19 community metrics, we look at hospitalizations
for COVID-19.  We look at hospital capacity.  And importantly, we also
look at cases.  So all of those go into the formulation as we use those
metrics for future guidance.

MR. ZIENTS:  Next question, please.

MODERATOR:  Let’s go to Betsy Klein at CNN.

Q    Hey, thanks for taking my question.  Given Dr. Fauci’s remarks on
the consideration of a second booster for adults, potentially within the
next few weeks, and then your comments, Jeff, that there won’t be supply
for Americans who aren’t seniors or immunocompromised without
congressional action, should those Americans expect to pay out of pocket
for an extra booster?  And will there be vaccine supply for Americans
who haven’t necessarily had a first, second, or third shot yet and chose
to do so in the coming weeks?

MR. ZIENTS:  Yeah, so let me make it clear that we do have sufficient
current inventory of vaccines, both at states and pharmacies, in other
access points around the country, and in our central inventory for
fourth doses if they’re called for this spring for our most vulnerable,
including seniors.

Where we do not have sufficient doses is later in the year if there’s a
— the science dictates that all Americans should get a booster or if
there’s a need for a new formulation of the vaccine — a variant-specific
vaccine, for example — then we will not have sufficient supply.

In terms of people getting their primary series — their first or second
dose, or their first booster — we continue to have sufficient supply in
the near term.

Next question, please.

MODERATOR:  Let’s go to Peter Sullivan at The Hill.

Q    Hi, thanks.  I wanted to ask, on the funding issue, Senator Romney
said today that he’s expecting a new proposal from Democratic
leadership.  It sounds like with some new offsets in it.  Is the White
House involved in that new proposal?  And, you know, do you feel like
you need to engage on the offset question a little more, given that
Republican senators still seem to be saying it needs to be offset?

MR. ZIENTS:  So, let me just sort of step back and start with our Hill
engagement and how long we’ve been at this.

We’ve been extensively engaged with Congress for months now.  And, you
know, going back to just after the New Year, mid-January, we’ve been
working with members of Congress, Democrats and Republicans, on the
funding needs for the COVID response.  We’ve hosted dozens of briefings,
we’ve held more than three dozen conference calls, and we’ve shared more
than a dozen funding tables.

We’ve given Congress a full accounting of our — of every dollar that’s
been spent on the COVID medical response and a full accounting of the
entire American Rescue Plan, which, as you all know, goes well beyond
the direct medical needs.

We’ve also provided all the specifics of the planned additional funding
— how it will be deployed against additional purchase of monoclonals and
pills and vaccines, as we were just talking about.

In total — I brought it with us — we’ve sent 385 pages of documents and
tables to Congress.  So let me be very clear: Congress has all the
information it needs, and we’ve been responding to questions for months
now.  Congress has had plenty of time to act.  And time is of the
essence, as we heard across the briefing today. 

With every day that passes, we risk not having the tools we need to
fight COVID.  And the bottom line is just, you know, crystal clear here:
The virus is not waiting for Congress to act.  With every minute this
funding request is stalled, we’re losing our ability to protect people
and be prepared. 

You know, in terms of offsets, this is emergency — this is an emergency
funding request, and there has not been a need for offsets for an
emergency funding request.  So, we fully believe that Congress should
act, they should fund the $22.5 billion, and there should be no need for
offsets. 

Next question, please.

MODERATOR:  Let’s go to Meg Tirrell at CNBC.

Q    Well, thanks.  I’m wondering if Dr. Fauci or Dr. Walensky could
give us some reflections on the news from Moderna today of results they
put out in a press release for kids under six for the vaccine.  And then
also for Jeff, for the Secretary: How does the funding situation impact
the potential vaccine rollout for kids under six?  Is there sufficient
supply for them?  And, you know, if there’s not vaccine being paid for
in the same way by the government, could that affect kids being able to
access vaccines too?

MR. ZIENTS:  Okay, Dr. Fauci, on the Moderna news.

DR. FAUCI:  Yeah.  Thank you for that question, Meg. So the data and the
announcement made by Moderna reflects a study done in collaboration with
the National Institutes of Health in which they looked at the effect of
a 25 microgram dose of the Moderna product in children within the age
group of six months up to six years — less than six, but from six months
up.

The primary endpoint of the data was not an efficacy endpoint; it was
immunogenicity to see if that dose in that particular cohort induced a
response comparable to the higher dose that you see in the adults.  And
it met that primary endpoint.

Also, the safety profile was quite good — nothing more or less than you
would naturally see with so many other vaccinations.  However, there was
enough events with regard to infection and enough people in the study
that they were able to get an efficacy signal.  But the efficacy signal
was for infection and there was not enough or any severity of disease,
either in the placebo or in the vaccine group, to make any determination
of the efficacy against severe disease. 

The efficacy against infection was 44 percent.  Now, that may seem like
a low number, but in the era of Omicron, this is actually quite
comparable to the efficacy against infection in what we’re seeing now
with other vaccines. 

So, the data looked pretty good.  Right now, they’re going to make those
data available to the FDA.  They will be submitting within a reasonable
period of time for an EUA for that particular group for that particular
purpose.

MR. ZIENTS:  In terms of the supply, we do have that supply secured for
kids under the age of six, so that is good news.  And we will be ready
operationally if the vaccine — and when the vaccine is authorized and
recommended.  And we’ll have those vaccinations available at tens of
thousands of locations across the country that parents know and trust. 
So, we are — we do have the supply secured, and we will be ready
operationally. 

Next question, please.

MODERATOR:  Let’s go to Jeff Mason at Reuters.

Q    Thank you.  One follow-up on the issue of an additional booster. 
Isn’t it — if I understood this correctly, isn’t it possible, Dr. Fauci
and Jeff, that there could be approval for everyone in the country to
get a fourth booster coming up?  And if that is the case, do we have —
does the United States have enough vaccine for that?  Not — and I don’t
mean later in the fall, Jeff, but I mean like right now if that comes
through. 

And then one other question for Dr. <s>Lawensky</s> \[Walensky\].  Could
you let us know if the CDC is planning to lift the Title 42 order for
all other migrants at the border?  And if so — or if not, why or why
not?  Thank you.

MR. ZIENTS:  Dr. Fauci.

DR. FAUCI:  So, Jeff, when we were talking about the possibility in my
brief introduction about the possibility of a fourth dose, there’s the
immediate issue and question, and then there’s the long-range question.

The long-range question, I think is what you’re referring to, is the
advisability or not of a fourth dose of vaccine for the general
population.  As I mentioned, the FDA will have a VRBPAC meeting on the
6th of April to look at what would be needed with regard to the kind of
boost that would be needed, whether it would be variant specific or
ancestral-strain specific, and for what population might it be needed in
the long range.  And in the long range, we’re talking, for example,
towards the beginning of the fall, the end of the summer.

The situation right now of the data that they are looking at with regard
to fourth doses from both companies — from both the companies of the
mRNA — the two companies for mRNA, Moderna and Pfizer — they’re going to
be looking at data that have been submitted by those companies to the
FDA to make a determination if there will be a subset — perhaps the
elderly or others. 

And as I mentioned, we already know it’s already recommended for those
with severe immune compromise.  So, people need to understand the
difference between what’s being looked at in the next few weeks for the
immediate versus the long range, which would involve the question you
also asked of Jeff: If a determination is made that we need to do
boosters for everyone, will there be available supply? 

But, Jeff, back to you.

MR. ZIENTS:  I think you captured it well.  I think that we do have a
sufficient supply for what we anticipate could be authorized or rec- —
and recommended in the coming weeks, months.  However, when you get
later in the year, if there is a vaccine — fourth dose recommended for
all Americans, we need the funding to secure enough supply to ensure
that we have sufficient doses for all Americans.

Over to you, Dr. Walensky.

DR. WALENSKY:  Yeah.  Thank you, Jeff.  So we last reassessed Title 42
at the end of January.  As you recall, that was just around or right
after the peak of our Omicron surge, and we had hospital capacity
challenges really across the country.  That reassessment is due next
week again, and we are currently reviewing the data and evaluating it
right now.  So, more soon to come.  Thanks.

MR. ZIENTS:  Next question, please.

MODERATOR:  A couple of more questions.  Let’s go to Victoria Knight at
Kaiser Health News.

Q    Hey, thanks so much for taking my question.  As you guys outlined
today, funds are running out to reimburse providers for COVID-related
treatment of the uninsured.  So what if Congress doesn’t act soon?  What
is the administration’s plan for this?  And does this mean uninsured
people will be left with big bills for COVID care?

MR. ZIENTS:  Secretary Becerra.

SECRETARY BECERRA:  So we’re planning to continue to provide the
different services that we have put in place over the last year.  We’re
going to continue to divert whatever resources we can to make sure we
address the COVID needs of the American public.  We’ll continue to
provide assistance in regions of the country where COVID is still
hitting hard and providing medical support where we can.

So we’ll continue to do everything we can.  We’ll exhaust every dollar
that we have.  We’ll use every dollar that we can — that is flexibly
available to continue to provide for the need.  And we’ll also begin, if
Congress continues to delay any additional funding — begin a process of
outlining what it would take to continue to offer to the American people
those vaccines, those treatments, those therapies that they are coming
to rely upon. 

And so, whether it is moving towards allowing Americans to purchase
these through other means or secure them through other means, or whether
it means getting the support from Congress that allows us to continue to
offer those for free, we’re going to continue to do what we can to make
them available so that every American can remain safe and healthy.

MR. ZIENTS:  Next question, please.

MODERATOR:  Last question, let’s go to Gustau Alegret at NTN24. 

Q    Thank you for this opportunity and for doing this.  I have a couple
of questions.  Dr. Fauci, you mentioned the fourth vaccine shot. 
However, there’s still many Americans who resist being vaccinated —
among them, millions in the Latino community.  Why you think there is
still this resistance among Latinos?  And if I may, Secretary Becerra,
could you send a clear message in Spanish, if possible, to those in this
community to highlight the importance of being vaccinated.  Gracias.

MR. ZIENTS:  Dr. Fauci. 

DR. FAUCI:   Well, for the first part of your question, it is
interesting and noteworthy that we have tried to get the equity of the
availability and implementation of vaccines in minority communities —
African Americans, Hispanics.  We’ve done actually quite well in the
comparable percentage of non-minorities and minorities who get
vaccinated to begin with. 

One of the things that has not been as successful — and we’re trying our
very best to counter that — is that boosters are not as much being
implemented among minorities, including Hispanics compared to whites. 

So, we’ve done very, very well with the equity of the original regimen. 
We’ve got to do better when it comes to boosters.  And we’re trying
everything we can to get the message out of why it is so important. 
Because when you look at the data of what boosters do, particularly in
the era of Omicron, boosters are extremely important.  So that is a
deficit that we are trying to correct.

MR. ZIENTS:  Secretary Becerra.

SECRETARY BECERRA:  (Speaks Spanish.)

MR. ZIENTS:  Thank you, everybody, for the questions and for joining
today’s briefing.

 3:41 P.M. EDT

To view the COVID Press Briefing slides,
visit: <https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2022/03/COVID-Press-Briefing_3.23.22.pdf>
