---
category: press-briefings
date: '2022-03-16'
modified_time: 2022-03-16 22:02:27-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2022/03/16/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-jen-psaki-march-16-2022/
published_time: 2022-03-16 22:02:26-04:00
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Jen\_Psaki, March 16,\_2022"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

3:09 P.M. EDT

MS. PSAKI:  Hi, everyone.  Good afternoon.  A couple of items for all of
you at the top.  Today marks one year since eight people — six of them
women of Asian descent — were tragically killed by a gunman who attacked
three Asian-run businesses.

In the aftermath of that horrific attack, the President and Vice
President traveled to Atlanta to meet with leaders of the Asian American
community and hear about pain — the pain and fear that too many Asian
Americans have felt since the beginning of the COVID-19 pandemic.

Today, Erika Mori- — Moritsugu, Deputy Assistant to the President and
AAPI Senior Liaison, is in Atlanta representing the White House as the
community mourns the victims of this awful tragedy.

Ambassador Katherine Tai, our U.S. Trade Representative and Co-Chair of
the White House Initiative on Asian Americans, Native Hawaiians, and
Pacific Islanders, also spoke at a vigil in Michigan to stand against
Asian Ameri- — anti-Asian hate past and present.

On this somber day, our administration remains fully committed to
reducing the gun violence that terrorizes — terrorizes our communities
and to advancing safety, inclusion, and belonging for all Asian
Americans, Native Hawaiians, and Pacific Islanders.

I wanted to make a note on gas prices.  Right now, oil prices are $94
per barrel.  When oil was at this level one month ago, the average cost
of a gallon of gasoline was $3.49.  And yet now, the average cost of gas
is $4.32.

When it comes to oil and gas prices, many accept that gas prices rise
quickly but fall slowly — the so-called “rockets-and-feathers”
phenomenon.

But President Biden rejects that.  Americans deserve relief, and fast,
as oil prices fall.

Retail gasoline prices are updated at least daily, and if gas retailers’
costs are going down, they need to immediately pass those savings onto
consumers.

So, I will reiterate what the President said to oil and gas companies
last week: The invasion of Ukraine and the volatility of the oil market
is no excuse for excessive price increases, profit padding, or any
effort to exploit American consumers.  No one should capitalize on
Putin’s aggression by taking advantage of American families.

And this chart, which you see here, shows both the price of crude oil,
and you see where it is as it relates to the price of gasoline.  And as
you’ve seen it gone down — go down, the price of gasoline obviously has
not gone down.  So that is the explanation of that particular chart.

I also just wanted to note, before we get to questions, that in some
good news, we saw history made yesterday with the strong bipartisan
confirmation of Shalanda Young, the first Black woman to serve as
Director of the Office of Management and Budget.

For the past year, she has served as a key advisor to the President, a
member of the economic team.  She has led the development of the
President’s budget and helped effectively implement his agenda and
vision across the entire federal government.

She’s not just making history, she’s exceptionally qualified and has
vast budget experience from her years leading staff on the House
Appropriations Committee.  So, we’re thrilled to have her as our
confirmed director.

Finally — I know you all just heard the President give remarks on this,
but for clarity’s sake and to make sure everybody fully understands the
totality of assistance, what the President announced today was an
additional $800 million in security assistance to Ukraine, bringing the
total U.S. security assistance committed to Ukraine to $1 billion in
just the past week and more than $2 billion since the start of the Biden
administration and, more specifically, since last March.

There is additional security assistance in the omnibus the President
signed into law yesterday, but we’re also working with the Ukrainians
and others on delivery mechanisms of that.  So, what he outlined today
is the additional $800 billion from that.

And this assistance, as you heard him say, it will take the form of
direct transfers of equipment from the Department of Defense to the
Ukrainian military to help them defend their country against Russians’
unpro- — Russia’s unprovoked and unjustified invasion.  It also includes
U.S.-produced short-range air defense systems the Ukrainians have been
using to great effect — systems they are trained on.

We have also identified and are helping the Ukrainians acquire
additional longer-range systems, on which their forces, again, are
already trained, as well as additional munitions for these systems.  And
we will continue to work with Allies and partners to transfer equipment
to Ukraine. 

At least 30 countries to date have provided security assistance to
Ukraine since the invasion began.  And in 2022, the Department of State
authorized third-party transfers of defensive equipment from more than
14 countries, a number that continues to grow as Allies and partners
increase support to Ukraine.

Chris, why don’t you kick us off?

Q    All right.  First off, I just wanted to note this is your 200th
briefing. 

MS. PSAKI:  Oh, wow.  Time flies when you’re having fun.

Q    And we will celebrate with a lot of questions.

MS. PSAKI:  Okay, 200 — let’s do it. 

Q    To start us off, the White House has said the Russian actions in
Ukraine are under close scrutiny for potential war crimes, but today
President Biden directly labeled Putin a, quote, “war criminal.”  Has
something changed in the administration’s assessment?  What brought this
new remark from the President today?

MS. PSAKI:  I think the President was — the President’s remarks speak
for themselves.  He was speaking from his heart and speaking from what
he’s seen on television, which is barbaric actions by a brutal dictator,
through his invasion of a foreign country.

There is a legal process that continues to — is underway, continues to
be underway at the State Department.  That’s a process that they would
have any updates on.

Q    So, another question on the military assistance.  Is the White
House, is the administration facilitating the transfer of S-300 anti-air
missiles?  How is the U.S. facilitating that?  How many might be
provided to Ukraine?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, let me just provide to you — as I’ve educated myself a
little bit on weapon systems over the past few days, I thought this
might be helpful to you.  So, S-300s are anti-aircraft systems.  We are
providing Stingers, who are also anti-aircraft systems.  There are a
range of anti-aircraft systems that different countries have around the
world.

So, as I noted, I know that President Zelenskyy called out specifically
S-300s.  And while I’m not going to get into specifics for security
reasons, we are continuing to work with our Allies and key partners to
surge new assistance, including Soviet- or Russian-origin anti-aircraft
systems, which is exactly what that is.

But what we’re talking about here is how to provide them a range of
anti-aircraft systems that will help them do exactly what they’ve been
doing, which is to shoot down planes.  And part of what the President
announced today was additional Stingers that serve exactly that purpose.

Q    Sure.  But given that the S-300 has a much longer range than the
Stingers, is that part of the administration’s plan to find a way to
facilitate that specific transfer of weapons?

MS. PSAKI:  Without getting into specific systems, there are a range of
anti-aircraft systems that do have longer range. We are continuing to
consult with our Allies and key partners to surge that assistance, but
I’m not going to get into more specifics.

Q    And the last question is: The Federal Reserve raised rates today to
help fight — tame inflation.  Is the administration confident that the
Fed can beat inflation through rate hikes and not risk a recession?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would note that Chairman Powell spoke to exactly
that question today.  So, I would point you to his specific comments
answering that question, where he did express confidence in the ability
to take the steps he announced and avoid that.

I would note that while they — we respect the independence of the
Federal Reserve, as you of course — as we have said many times — the
President has also said in the past that he recognizes not only their
independence, but that it is appropriate and necessary for the Federal
Reserve to recalibrace \[sic\] — recalibrate their — that — their
support to maintain stable prices.  And obviously, they made an
announcement today.

As it relates to — we, obviously, closely watch here from the
administration and closely monitor all risks.  And we continue to
believe that the United States economy is positioned well to deal with
the challenges ahead, even as we continue to monitor.

And, obviously, there are events that impact the economy, including an
invasion of a foreign country.  And we’re seeing that impact as well
play out in the economic data.

Go ahead.

Q    Back on this question of labeling Putin a “war criminal.”  I mean,
this war has now been going on for three weeks.  So far, the President
has declined to use this label.  As you note, there is an ongoing, sort
of, formal process before you can use this term.  So, something must
have changed for the President to feel like he can take this additional
step today.  What?  What else is he seeing?

MS. PSAKI:  The President was answering a direct question that was asked
and responding to what he has seen on television.

We have all seen barbaric acts, horrific acts by a foreign dictator in a
country that is threatening and taking the lives of civilians, impacting
hospitals, women who are pregnant, journalists, others.  And I think he
was answering a direct question.

Q    All right.  The administration is making it very clear — and
publicly — how much assistance the U.S. is providing to Ukraine. 
Whether we are fighting in this war or not, the U.S. is obviously
heavily involved.  Putin certainly knows all of this.  He knows where
this equipment is coming from.  Is there any concern that you run the
risk that he may view this as the kind of direct U.S. involvement, the
direct confrontation that you are trying to avoid?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, all the equipment that we’re providing, whether it’s
Stingers or Javelins or counter artillery — counter mortar radar,
counter UA- — UAV tracking radars, anti-armor systems, unmanned aerial
systems — this is all defensive equipment and materials.  It is more
than we have ever provided to Ukraine in the past.  It is a significant
amount of assistance that we have expedited the delivery on.  And we
will continue to do exactly that. 

But as our Department of Defense — and they can certainly speak to
themselves — for themselves — they do risk assessments, they assess what
the impact will be of the types of assistance they’re providing.  We’re
obviously watching how the types of assistance we have provided have
helped the Ukrainians courageously and bravely fight back, and we’re
giving them more of that assistance.  We’ve also given them additional
types of assistance we had not yet provided to them. 

But again, these are all defensive weapons systems. 

You have noted from the podium that Putin has shown no signs of changing
course.  You’ve also noted that there are significant consequences that
Putin could still face. 

Even with this additional aid that you’re providing today, it seems
there are still other options on the table.  So why hold back?  Why not
use every tool at your disposal now to spare additional lives?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think if you look at the range of tools that we’ve
used to date, we have — we have implemented more economic sanctions than
we have on any other economy in the world.  You could compare it,
potentially, to Iran or maybe North Korea, but Russia is a much more
significant economy, a larger economy. 

And so I wouldn’t say that we are holding back in that sense.  We do
have additional steps we can take, as we’ve talked about a bit in here
before.  Obviously, the SWIFT banking system and the implementation of
those sanctions happens institution by institution.  There are
additional individuals that can be sanctioned.  We can have new
targets.  We can deepen the severity of sanctions on existing targets. 
We can further eject Russia from international economic or- — the
international economic order.  We can further dire- — deny Russia the
capacity to mon- — modernize and diversify its economy, like we have
with the export controls and the cutting off of access to a lot of
technology.  And we can further expose and hold to account the
kleptocracy. 

These are additional actions we have, additional options we have.  And
we can take them.  And that is a decision that we would make through a
discussion internally. 

Q    But what are you waiting for?

MS. PSAKI:  We are — we have additional escalatory steps that we can
take.  But I would just note that we have not held back.  We have done
more economic sanctions and had more — put in place more financial
consequences than we have in any circumstance ever in the world.  So I
wouldn’t say that is holding back in any capacity.

Go ahead.

Q    Jen, does the White House have any insight or assessment of the
negotiations between Ukraine and Russia?  President Zelenskyy seemed to
indicate there’d been some progress, but President Putin’s remarks later
did not make the same impression.

MS. PSAKI:  We obviously stay in very close touch with the Ukrainians. 
But what I would note is we haven’t seen any effort to de-escalate from
President Putin and from the Russian military.

So while we will continue to be very supportive, in a range of ways, of
diplomatic efforts — whether that is engaging directly with the
Ukrainians, with the Europeans; you saw obviously Jake Sullivan had a
call with his counterpart this morning as well — but we also are
providing a range of security assistance and economic assistance to make
sure we’re strengthening Ukraine as they go into these discussions. 

But it’s hard to have — hard to have negotiations that are going to be
effective if, you know, one party is continuing to escalate.

Q    President Zelenskyy, in his remarks to Congress today, again made
his request for a no-fly zone.  He no doubt is aware of President
Biden’s position on that.  Is there any scenario in which President
Biden would change his mind?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, first, let me say that the President watched the
speech — I know some of you asked this, so let me just do this now.  He
watched the speech from his residence, in his private library.

As you heard him say, he thought that President Zelenskyy was
passionate, was powerful.  And certainly he — and he watched the
totality of it.  

We are in very close touch with the Ukrainians.  Nothing that he asked
for or said today was a surprise in that sense.  And if we were
President Zelenskyy, we would be asking for everything possible as well
and continuing to ask for it, because he is watching his country and his
people be attacked and brutalized by President Putin and the Russian
military. 

But how President Biden makes decisions is through the prism of our own
national security.  And as we’ve said before, a no-fly zone would
require implementation, it would require us potentially shooting down
Russian planes, NATO shooting down Russian planes.  And we are not
interested in getting into World War Three.

Q    Last — just lastly, does the White House view Russia as being ready
to go back and allow the Iran nuclear deal to come forward?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, we can’t blissfully speak for Russia —  I’m
sanctioned; they especially wouldn’t let me speak for them, I guess, now
— I don’t know if it’s changed.

But I would say that Russia does not want Iran to acquire a nuclear
weapon.  We don’t either.  While we have a range of strong disagreements
with them, we can’t speak for their intentions here.  Certainly, we
believe it’s in both of our interests for this to move forward. 

Go ahead.

MS. PSAKI:  Jen, does the President believe that it would be important
for President Zelenskyy to be at the NATO summit next week, as long as
it is safe for him to do so?

MS. PSAKI:  I have not discussed that exactly with the President.  The
President is going there to meet with NATO partners and Allies. 
Obviously, President Zelenskyy is — his country is in the middle of a
war.  So I have not talked to him about that specifically.

Q    I wanted to ask you about Jake Sullivan —

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.

Q    — speaking with his Russian counterpart.  The Russian readout said
that this happened at the U.S.’s initiative, and the NSC’s readout said
that if Russia is serious about diplomacy, then Moscow should stop
attacking Ukraine. 

You’ve obviously consistently said from the podium that the door to
diplomacy is never closed.  Are we seeing, though, a ramp-up in
diplomatic efforts with Russia right now?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, this is the most senior conversation between the U.S.
and Russian officials since Secretary Blinken last spoke with Foreign
Minister Lavrov.

I would note that we have maintained direct and indirect contact with
the Russians, through our embassy and officials there, Ambass- —
including through Ambassador Sullivan, and we also have a military
deconfliction channel. 

But we requested this call to clearly lay out our commitment to
continuing to impose costs on Russia if they do not stop attacking
Ukrainian cities and towns, and to warn them about the consequences and
implications of Russia potentially using chemical or biological weapons
in Ukraine. 

So it’s important to convey those — those consequences directly, and
this was an opportunity to do that.

Q    And just one final question on a different topic.  The
administration has marked the one-year anniversary of the Atlanta spa
shootings and spoken about some of the actions that the federal
government has tried to take.  As you know, this week, an Asian woman in
New York, a 67-year-old woman, was hit more than 125 times, was stomped
on, was called a racial slur.  Obviously, that video is very sickening
to watch.  Do you know whether the President has seen that video? 

And just what would the President’s message be to anyone in the Asian
American community who feels like, well, the actions that the government
is taking are not enough to stop these attacks and they say that they
feel afraid?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would say that our message to them — I have not
talked to the President about this specific video.  I’ve seen it; a
number of us have seen it.  And as you said, it is very difficult to
watch.

I would say that his message to them would be: Our work is not done;
that we want to stand by your side and continue to stand up for you, to
protect you, to call out this type of discrimination and horrific
actions, as — and including in the example you gave.

And that what he has done is tried to elevate this type of anti-Asian
hate in this country so that people are aware of it, so that communities
across the country can continue in that fight as well. 

But the work clearly is not done, and we need to be steadfast in it. 

Go ahead, David.

Q    Jen, a couple of questions on today’s events.  So, first, in the
conversation that Jake Sullivan had with his Russian counterpart, he
issued a very specific warning about chemical and bio.  There was no
mention in the readout of nuclear, which is obviously a concern for
battlefield weapons.  Was that a deliberate omission?  Has that
conversation taken place in a different channel?

MS. PSAKI:  I’m happy to go back to them and see if there’s more we want
to read out from the conversation.  I think what the most important
component here to take away, I hope, is that we wanted to have a direct
conversation about what the consequences would be of further escalatory
action. 

But I don’t have more to read out at this point in time.

Q    Okay.  And then on your answer, just before, about your concerns
about the MiG planes — we went through a little bit of this yesterday —
I think you just said that you didn’t want to have NATO pilots bringing
down Russian planes.  But under the administration’s policy of moving
out this long-range anti-aircraft, it’s okay to have NATO equipment
bringing down Russian planes, as long as it’s launched by a Ukrainian? 
Am I understanding the policy right?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think — you’ve heard us talk a fair amount about the
Poland — the planes from Poland.  And again, Poland is a sovereign
country so they can make decisions on their own. 

What we have done is done an assessment of our role and the U.S. role,
and what our view would be of NATO, of this — of these planes taking off
from NATO airspace.  Again, I would note that the equipment that we’ve
provided is defensive, as you know, not offensive.  And we see that as
being a difference. 

We’re also looking at —

Q    Because the planes can be used for an offensive purpose and the
antimissile systems —

MS. PSAKI:  Correct.

Q    — cannot?

MS. PSAKI:  Correct.

Also — also, I would note that what our Department of Defense officials
also assessed is what’s most effective.  And while the Ukrainians still
have squadrons of planes to utilize, as I think any military official
could confirm for you, the types of assistance that we are providing
today, including Stingers and other assistance that we’re amping up
support for, is exactly what we feel is effective in fighting this war.

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Jen.  Today, in Putin’s speech, he implied that there’s
going to be even greater crackdowns on civil liberties inside of
Russia.  Is there anything that you all believe that you can do, in
terms of sanctions or supporting the opposition there, that you all are
not already taking?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, we look at all of the actions that President Putin
does, and we assess what responses we may have.

I have nothing to predict at this point in time, but obviously, as he
has taken actions, we have taken actions in response.

Q    And then, specifically on the case of Aleksey Navalny, he —
prosecutors there just said that they want to sentence him for a 13-year
prison sentence.  Does the White House have a response to that?

MS. PSAKI:  I think we’ve spoken a number of times in the past about the
courage of Aleksey Navalny, about the role he’s played in being an
outspoken advocate for freedoms in a country that has been void of
them.  And I would echo those — that response now. 

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Jen.  Can you talk a little bit about what President Biden
specifically hopes to accomplish in his trip next week —

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.

Q    — beyond shoring up NATO Allies?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, that’s a big part of it.  That’s a very important
part, Ashley — shoring up NATO Allies. 

Look, I think from the beginning, and even before this conflict began,
we have viewed rebuilding alliances in the world as a key component of
what the Biden administration and President Biden could specifically do
on the global stage following his predecessor’s — his predecessor’s
actions. 

So what he’ll be doing — he’s — while he’s there: He’s meeting with our
NATO Allies to coordinate our deterrence and defense.  So they will
obviously talk about where things are on the ground, coordinated
responses, assistance we’re providing.   
  
NATO, at this point, as you all know, is more united and more determined
than we’ve been in decades.  So we certainly would — would be focused on
continuing that unity. 

He would also — he’s also going to join European leaders in a separate
part of the day to discuss our work to impose economic costs on Russia. 
As I noted earlier, there are obviously a range of coordinated steps and
costs we’ve taken.  There’s more that we could do, we have the capacity
and the ability to do, and we want to continue to do as much of that in
a coordinated fashion. 

We’re also looking to continue to provide a range of humanitarian
support, especially as we’re seeing a surge of refugees continue to grow
across the border, and, you know, discuss a range of ways we can address
the challenges stemmed from Putin’s war in a coordinated fashion.

Q    And on a slightly lighter note, does the administration have a
position on the effort in Congress to make Daylight Savings Time
permanent?

MS. PSAKI:  I have seen those reports.  I was trying to think of a joke;
I couldn’t think of one.  I don’t have a specific — we are obviously
coordinated and work closely with Congress on all legislation they
consider, but I don’t have a specific position from the administration
at this point of time.

Q    Is it something — is the President more of a morning person or
afternoon?  (Laughter.)  Because people are often divided in those ways,
so I’m just curious if you could talk about that.

MS. PSAKI:  That is true.  Now, to de-link it from this specific
question, he is more of an evening person.  But I don’t know what
analysis you’ll provide, but I’ll look forward to reading it tomorrow. 

Go ahead. 

Q    Thank you, Jen.  Has President Biden spoken to President Zelenskyy
today?

MS. PSAKI:  Not since this morning.  If he does and when he does, which
I’m sure he will soon, we will provide that readout to all of you. 

Q    Got it.  Thanks. 

Today, President Zelenskyy made a distinction between a humanitarian
no-fly zone and a blanket no-fly zone.  Does the administration view
them as being different or the same thing?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, there have been descriptions of both of those over the
past couple of weeks.  And sometimes a humanitar- — and I don’t want to
put words in his mouth, but a humanitarian no-fly zone can be specific
geography or a portion of Western — or parts of Ukraine, whereas a
no-fly zone — sometimes people refer to it as the totality of the
country. 

In our view and the view of the military, there’s not a difference in
terms of the implementation and the escalatory impact. 

Q    Thank you. 

And then, today, the Vice President spoke with the President of
Slovakia, which is one of three countries that can actually provide
those S-300s.  But the readout does not mention the missile system.  So
can you tell us whether the Vice President directly asked Slovakia to
provide them to Ukraine?

MS. PSAKI:  I can’t get into more specifics, other than to convey that
we are having conversations with a range of Allies about providing
additional assistance — anti-aircraft assistance. 

And again, there are a range of — of systems, including some of the
systems that we provided and we are going to be expediting delivery of
to Ukraine from the United States. 

Q    And one more on the warplanes that Zelenskyy asked for today.  I
mean, you’ve made very clear that the U.S. is opposed to doing that
right now.  I wonder if the U.S. is also discouraging other NATO Allies
from providing fighter jets, even if the U.S. would not have to serve as
a middleman. 

MS. PSAKI:  Other countries can make their own sovereign decisions. 

Q    Okay.  And then one more on the Asian hate crimes, because you
mentioned them at the top, too.  Do you know if the DOJ has concluded
that there is not enough evidence to charge the shooter in Atlanta with
a federal hate crime?

MS. PSAKI:  I couldn’t speak to that from here.  You’d have to ask DOJ
that question. 

Q    Okay.  And then, more broadly, since the administration adopted new
policies that are meant to make it easier to identify these crimes as
hate crimes, do you — can you point to any progress that —

MS. PSAKI:  Again, I’d point you to the Department of Justice, who are
implementing.

Q    Okay.  Thanks, Jen.

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.

Go ahead, Jacqui.

Q    Thank you, Jen.  Just one more.  I know a lot of people have asked
about the MiGs, but can you lay out for us why the administration sees
MiGs as provocative and Javelins and Stingers as not provocative?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, first, Javelins and Stingers are defensive weapons. 
MiGs or planes are offensive weapons, which are a different type of
military system. 

I would say the other assessment that we’ve done — not through here, not
through the White House, not through the President — from — from the
Department of Defense is to assess what is effective and what works in
terms of fighting this war on the ground. 

And that is why we provided an additional $1 billion — $800 million
announced today, but $1 billion this week — of assistance, utilizing a
number of the high-level military systems — Stingers, Javelins,
counter-artillery, counter-mortar radar, anti-armor systems — that we
know have been effective and we know the Ukrainians are trained on.

Third, Ukraine’s Air Force already has several squadrons of
mission-capable aircraft, and giving them more would not significantly
change their effectiveness. 

And finally — I touched on this in the beginning, offensive versus
defensive — but we also do risk assessments from the Department of
Defense about what would be escalatory and what — and that is obviously
what we would like to avoid. 

Q    And then, John Kirby has said that success for the U.S. mission in
Ukraine is a free, independent, sovereign Ukraine.  We’ve also heard
that the official mission is to prevent escalation beyond Ukraine. 
Which is it?

MS. PSAKI:  Both are true.

Q    If we’re not specific about what exactly the desired outcome is,
how do we expect to be able to be successful?

MS. PSAKI:  Why could — why could both not be true: a sovereign Ukraine
and preventing them from expanding beyond?

Q    Okay. 

And then, moving on to the nuclear deal, General McKenzie told the Armed
Services Committee that, from everything that he can see, the IRGC is a
terrorist organization.  Is the White House willing to de-list the IRGC
from the Foreign Terrorist Organization list in order to get a deal with
Iran?

MS. PSAKI:  We’re still in the negotiations, so I’m not going to
speculate or outline from here what the final details look like. 

Q    And these are likely the group responsible for firing missiles at
U.S. facilities in Iraq.  So as long as Americans aren’t killed, are
there — are there are no consequences for something like that, all in an
effort to get a nuclear deal?

MS. PSAKI:  Again, you’re speculating on something that is not even
finalized.  The deal is not finalized. 

What I would note — and I would just go back to why we’re negotiating
this deal.  And right now, we’re negotiating this deal because nu- —
Iran’s nuclear gains are threatening U.S. interests.  There’s urgency to
taking steps to contain that, which is why we’ve been engaged so
closely. 

And that is all the result of President Trump pulling out of the deal,
and Iran moving closer to having the capacity and acquiring a nuclear
weapon and speeding up their breakout time. 

So we are here thanks to the actions of the last president and the last
administration.  And it is in our interest, it is in the global interest
to prevent Iran from acquiring a nuclear weapon. 

Go ahead, Kristen. 

Q    Thanks, Jen.  How quickly can Ukraine expect to receive the list of
military aid that President Biden laid out today?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, we have expedited, as you — as you would — as we’ve
noted from here, about 300 million dollars’ worth of military and
security assistance over the last couple of weeks.  We continue to have
channels to deliver military assistance.  And so, we would continue to
work to deliver it quickly. 

There have been military deliveries even in the last few days. 

Q    So, it has been rolling and you’re confident it will continue to be
including these new elements that he laid out today?

MS. PSAKI:  We continue to have channels to do exactly that, yes.

Q    Okay.

And the President said, going back now to the long-range air defense
systems, that he was working with Allies to acquire them.  Can you tell
us where they are and what the expectation is in terms of the timeline
for getting those systems to Ukraine?

MS. PSAKI:  I can’t outline where they are because we’re going to keep
those conversations private. 

I would note that a great deal of what we’re doing is augmenting the
type of effective military assistance that we’re doing from the United
States and working to prioritize equipment that they are trained on. 

But we are discussing with a range of partners.  When we say “Stinger”
or “Javelins,” those are brands.  There are different kinds of similar
assistance or other types of assistance that different allies have
around the world.

Q    And I want to go back to the MiGs quickly and just be crystal clear
about what you’re saying.  Because when I asked the President about this
earlier, he said he’s not going to comment.  He didn’t say that it’s not
an option.  So —

MS. PSAKI:  Well, we’ve spoken to it approximately 167 times.  So, maybe
he —

Q    But —

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.

Q    Well, here’s 168.

MS. PSAKI:  Go ahead.  Go ahead.  (Laughter.)

Q    There’s a growing — there’s a growing number of Republicans and
Democrats who are supporting the U.S. striking a deal with Poland to
send the MiGs.  You have Elise Stefanik earlier today saying Ukraine
“needs those MiGs.”  You have Scalise saying, “Getting \[those\] MiGs in
immediately is…critical.”  There’s a growing chorus of voices saying
that now is the time. 

Has the President reconsidered his stance at all at this point? 

MS. PSAKI:  No, because our military makes assessments, which — they put
out that assessment last week and I would just echo that one part of the
assessment is based on what equipment is effective in fighting this
war.  Anti-armor and air-defense systems, they are effectively defending
the country.  That is what we have provided additional assistance on. 

Second, they have several squa- — squadrons of mission-capable aircraft
—

Q    But they don’t think that’s enough, Jen.  You heard President
Zelenskyy —

MS. PSAKI:  — that are not being —

Q    — very clearly say —

MS. PSAKI:  — Kristen, that are not — Kristen, that are not — Kristen,
that are not being utilized.  This is the assessment by our Defense
Department. 

Third, they’re also assessing that the transfer to Ukraine may be
mistaken as escalatory. 

So this is how our Defense Department is assessing.  They’re assessing
also that it would not significantly change the effectiveness of the
Ukrainian Air Force.  And these are the types of risk ass- — risk
assessments. 

We certainly understand.  We share the passion, the anger, the horror at
what we’re seeing.  And that is why we are — we significantly increased
the types of military assistance, the types of equipment that we know is
effective and our Defense Department has determined is effective in
fighting this war. 

Q    President Zelenskyy ended his speech today by saying, “Being the
leader of the world means to be the leader of peace.” Is President Biden
satisfied that he’s meeting this leadership moment, given that we’re now
three weeks into this war? 

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would say that President Zelenskyy also thanked the
President for the role he’s played.  And without President Biden, there
would not be 30 countries around the world providing security and
military assistance, NATO would not be as aligned as it is, we would not
be unified in our implementation of the most crippling sanctions we’ve
ever implemented against a foreign country. 

We will continue to stand by President Zelenskyy’s side, the side of the
Ukrainians and the brave and courageous Ukrainian people, and continue
to build on the efforts that have been underway to date.

Q    And one more very quickly.

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.

Q    In the wake of the Second Gentleman testing positive, has President
Biden been tested today and has the Vice President been tested?

MS. PSAKI:  The — I can check on the Vice President. The President has
not been.  He was tested on Sunday.  He was not a close contact, so we
have not changed our testing mechanism.

Let me check on the Vice President.  I know they put out some
information last night.  I’ll see if there’s an update.

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Jen.  Can you confirm that Switchblade drones were part of
the package?  And if so, do you consider that still defensive? 

MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have more details beyond what was in our factsheet
to confirm from here. 

Q    Okay.  And is the U.S. monitoring the hostage situation in
Chernobyl?  And did that come up in the call with Sullivan today? 

MS. PSAKI:  We are definitely closely monitoring that situation.  And I
can check and see if that was a topic of discussion during their call. 

Q    Also, just lastly here, what does the administration make of the
Russian proposal of Ukraine being a demilitarized
Austrian-and-Swedish-type model? 

MS. PSAKI:  As a part of their 15-point discussion?

Q    As part of — right.

MS. PSAKI:  Look, our focus is on supporting the Ukrainians in their
efforts.  Obviously, pursuing diplomacy is something we will always
support.  But as President Putin and the Russian military continues to
take escalatory steps on the ground and take military action against
civilians and innocent people, we think that is the biggest place where
we need to see change. 

Go ahead.

Q    I wanted to ask if you’re — if you’re in a position today to say
more about the contours of the President’s travel next week.  What’s
after Brussels, if anything? 

MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have anything more for you at this point in time. 
We’re still finalizing the additional — any additional details.

Q    The fact that the Second Gentleman did test positive, does that
raise concerns here about the state of — the situation of the country
with BA.2 or any other variants that might be around?

MS. PSAKI:  It does not.  Not from our health officials.

Go ahead.

Q    Jen, back of the room.

MS. PSAKI:  I’ll go to the back in a second. 

Go ahead.

Q    Can I ask just very briefly?  Sarah Bloom Raskin —

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.

Q    — withdrew her nomination yesterday.

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.

Q    I’m wondering if you could speak to that.  And in particular, will
you name a new no- — will the President name a new nominee soon for that
post?

MS. PSAKI:  He certainly will nominate a new person to serve — to
nominate to that post.  It’s been less than a day, so it may be a little
bit more time. 

We are certainly disappointed.  Sarah Bloom Raskin remains one of the
most highly qualified people to ever be nominated to this position.  But
it’s an important role, and he will nominate someone to fill the
position.

Q    Can you speak to how those final, sort of, days played out on
that?  Did — was there an attempt to get bipartisan support, or was
Senator Manchin’s statement sort of seen as the decisive one when that
came down?

MS. PSAKI:  No.  I would say, as I said from this podium, it — there was
continued efforts to seek bipartisan support and continue to support her
candidacy. 

Q    Great. 

And, sorry, going back to the drones, is your position that the drones
were assessed by the Defense Department to not be perceived as
escalatory and to not be perceived as offensive weapons?

MS. PSAKI:  Again, I don’t have anything more to confirm beyond what was
in the factsheet and the specifics in there.  But defensive weapons is
what we have provided. 

Go ahead.

Q    Yeah. 

MS. PSAKI:  I’ll go to the back in a second.

Q    The administration — including you, yesterday — have raised very
dire warnings about what will happen —

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.

Q    — if this COVID money doesn’t come through.

President Biden held a bill signing yesterday — a very celebratory bill
signing for a piece of legislation that that was stripped out of — that
funding was stripped out of.  Why didn’t the President mention it?  And
is he willing to expend political capital on this? 

MS. PSAKI:  Yes, he is.  Absolutely.  I would say that we have been
working around the clock over the last few days, behind the scenes and
publicly, to convey very clearly to elected officials across the country
and the American people what the impacts will be.  So, I would expect
you’ll hear from him more soon about it. 

Q    And on the meeting that Jake Sullivan — or the conversation that
Jake Sullivan had with the Russian Security Council Secretary, can you
say why that particular person was the one that the U.S. reached out to,
why he was the one that Jake had a conversation with?  Is there anything
about his proximity to Putin or anything else that we should know? 

MS. PSAKI:  I don’t think there’s more to detail from here.

Go ahead.

Q    A couple of questions on Russia.  Obviously, the President calling
Vladimir Putin personally a “war criminal” today.  Are you going to be
detailing whether orders to strike maternity wards, residential
buildings, innocent children were coming from the very top?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would say there’s a legal process where all of the
data and information gathered will be fed into any international
investigations.  That’s led by the State Department. 

I think I spoke to this a few minutes earlier, where I conveyed the
President was directly answering a question and speaking to his own
passion in watching the barbaric actions of a brutal dictator invading a
foreign country.  But there is a legal process that is ongoing.  The
State Department has oversight over that. 

Q    And then the Chinese ambassador to the U.S. published a — an op-ed
in the Washington Post.  He said that threats against Chinese entities
and businesses are unacceptable and, quote, “wielding the baton of
sanctions at Chinese companies while seeking” Chinese — “China’s support
and cooperation simply won’t work.”  I’m wondering if you have a
response to that.

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would say that our — I don’t believe that’s what
we’ve — that’s an accurate depiction of what we’ve been doing.  What
we’ve been conveying is that rhetorical support or the clear rhetorical
lack of denunciation of what Russia is doing flies in the face of what
China stands for, including basic principles of the U.N. Charter,
including the basic principle of respect for sovereignty of nations. 
And that’s just a statement of fact.

Obviously, our objective and what we’ll watch closely is — and I don’t
have an update on it from here — is, you know, any decision to provide
additional support to Russia while they’re invading a foreign country.

Go ahead.

Q    Thank you.  Senator Chuck Grassley has put a hold on nomination of
LA Mayor Eric Garcetti for U.S. Ambassadorship to India.  Has the
President spoken with his friend, senator?  Or has the White House
reached out to him to lift the hold?  Or is the White House considering
a new name for India?  Is the absence of a U.S. Ambassador to India
having an impact on your bilateral relationship?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, he can’t actually prevent a vote from moving forward
on the floor.  I mean, he can convey his opposition as is the right of
any senator.  But Mayor Garcetti is out of committee, and we’re hoping
to see a vote on the Senate floor soon.  And the President has
confidence in Mayor Garcetti and believes he’ll be an excellent
representative in India.

It is critical, of course, that we have confirmed leadership at all of
our embassies, including India, and we urge the Senate to confirm him as
quickly as possible.

Q    And in the middle of this war with Ukraine, how are the world’s
largest and oldest democracies working together to bring peace in the
region?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would say, as you know, we remain in touch through a
range of channels from our national security team with leaders in India,
and continue to encourage leaders to work closely with us to — to stand
up against President Putin’s invasion of Ukraine.

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Jen.  The wheat supplies from both Russia and Ukraine have
been disrupted and are forecasted to be disrupted quite a bit going
forward.  Does the U.S. see the danger, as some have been talking about,
about a breakdown, actually, of food supplies to large parts of the
world, maybe starting with Africa?  Thank you.

MS. PSAKI:  This is something we’re watching very closely.  I have a
little bit of information on this, so let me see if I can find it. 
Let’s see.

And we are concerned about how the wheat supply could impact different
parts of the world, less the United States and more other parts of the
world.  There are also impacts we could see in the United States,
including fertilizer and the production of fertilizer.  Ukraine is a
large producer of fertilizer.  So, there are steps the Department of
Agriculture has announced, and we are taking steps to work to address. 

But this is something — to go back to your original question — we are
monitoring closely and we are, of course, continuing to evaluate what
types of humanitarian assistance we can provide to address.

Q    Okay.  And just a quick one on another part of the world.  Taiwan’s
foreign minister said just this week — it might have been yesterday —
that the U.S. is about to announce more arms sales to Taiwan.  Do you
have anything on that?

MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have anything to predict, confirm, or read out on
that.  I’m happy to check with our Defense Department. 

Go ahead.

Q    Thanks, Jen.  So, the President has obviously sanctioned a lot of
Russian oligarchs.  I wonder about some of the laws — our laws that
enable this sort of international kleptocracy. 

Obviously, the President’s been outspoken about his belief that
America’s tax code should be more fair, that it should be enforced
better.  And I wonder if the President has thought about or has had
conversations with people on the Hill about possible legislation that
would change some of these laws, make real estate transactions more
transparent, require companies and trust to be registered to people by
their actual name, prevent Americans from using offshore banks as tax
havens.  Any of that under consideration?

MS. PSAKI:  A number of those he’s expressed support for in the past. 
I’m happy to check with our economic team and see if any of those are
under discussion.

Q    But no sense that those talks have picked up in the last few weeks?

MS. PSAKI:  I just don’t have an update on it.

Go ahead, Karen.

Q    Just to get back to Jake Sullivan’s call: You noted when you were
first talking about it that this was the most senior conversation
between the U.S. and Russia since Secretary Blinken’s last conversation
with Lavrov.  So, why now?  Why today?  Has something changed that’s
given the administration any reason to think this could produce some
progress — a call like this?

MS. PSAKI:  I wouldn’t put that much optimism in it.  I would say that
there have been ongoing direct and indirect conversations with the
Russians.  It’s not that it stopped at any point.  We’ve — they’ve —
those have happened through our Ambassador, and it just felt like the
appropriate time for our National Security Advisor to have a discussion
and directly convey that there will be additional consequences should
things proceed, including if there is a use of chemical weapons.

Q    I guess, to ask you the inverse then —

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.

Q    — would there be any increasing concerns that prompted that call
today?

MS. PSAKI:  I would say that, you know, diplomatic conversations and
talks — there isn’t always a magic reason why they happen in a
particular moment.  And this was — just felt like the appropriate time
for them, for us to engage at that level.

Go ahead.  I have to wrap up in a second here, but go ahead.

Q    Thank you, Jen.  You put out a list of all of the military
equipment —

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.

Q    — included in that $400 million — $800 million —

MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.

Q    — that’s being provided to Ukraine.  Among those items — let me
read them to you: 100 grenade launchers, 5,000 rifles, 1,000 pistols,
400 machine guns, and 400 shotguns.  Are you saying those items are not
offensive weapons?

MS. PSAKI:  They’re weapons that help the Ukrainian people fight against
an invasion by a foreign country. 

Q    They can be used offensively, can they not?

MS. PSAKI:  Again, they are weapons.  What I’m talking about is weapons
that can be used to fight —

Q    The answer is “yes.”  The answer is “yes.”  I mean, although you
don’t want to say it, that answer to that question is “yes.”  And so,
obviously, you’re trying to make this distinction between offensive and
defensive weapons —

MS. PSAKI:  Well, what we’re talking about — let me finish.  Let me
finish.

Q    Well, let me finish, because I give you my point —

MS. PSAKI:  Let me finish my answer. 

Q    — you make — no, you weren’t — no, I was finishing a point, and
then you can respond to my point.

MS. PSAKI:  Okay, go ahead.

Q    All right.  You’re making this distinction between offensive and
defensive weapons.  Anybody that looks at that list of weapons that I
just mentioned, they would say, clearly, they’re offensive. 

If a Ukrainian military officer or someone who is enlisted has one of
these weapons, they can take out a Russian military official of some
sort with these weapons.  They’re offensive in nature.  So, why not
provide more offensive weapons like this to the Ukrainian military?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, first of all, we are providing a range of rifles, et
cetera.  There is a difference between a plane and planes and massive
military systems — I think anybody would recognize this — and what we’re
talking about, which is giving rifles and pistols to many of them
farmers and people living in countrysides to defend themselves.  I think
there’s a difference that most people recognize.

Thank you, everyone, so much.  Have a nice day.

Q    Jen, you promised the back of the room today.

MS. PSAKI:  I will get to you tomorrow.  I’m sorry, I have to wrap up. 
I apologize.

Q    There’s going to be another kerfuffle, Jen.  (Laughter.)  No more
kerfuffles!

3:52 P.M. EDT
