---
category: press-briefings
date: '2022-03-29'
modified_time: 2022-03-29 00:30:27-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2022/03/29/background-press-call-by-a-senior-administration-official-previewing-the-visit-of-prime-minister-lee-of-singapore/
published_time: 2022-03-29 05:00:00-04:00
title: Background Press Call by a Senior Administration Official Previewing the Visit
  of Prime Minister Lee of Singapore
---
 
Via Teleconference

(March 28, 2022)

7:06 P.M. EDT

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  And thanks everyone for joining.  I know it’s on
the later side of the evening, so thanks again for your time.

I’m just going to do a quick ground rules.  So, this is on background,
attributable to a “senior administration official.”  And the contents of
this call are embargoed until tomorrow, Tuesday, March 29th, 5:00 a.m.
Eastern.

For your awareness and not for reporting, joining us today is \[senior
administration official\].  And they’re going to give a couple of
remarks at the top, and then we’ll just do some questions.  So, \[senior
administration official\], over to you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Great, thank you very much.  And thank
you all for joining.

We are very, very happy that tomorrow Prime Minister of Singapore Lee
Hsien Loong will come to the White House to meet with the President and
also, separately, with the Vice President.

He arrived in Washington over the weekend and, I believe, had a number
of meetings today and will be doing other meetings over the course of
the next few days.

We are very happy about this because we believe that the U.S.-Singapore
Strategic Partnership is extremely strong and extremely valuable to both
countries, and has supported peace and prosperity throughout the
Indo-Pacific for many years.

Our two countries share strong security, economic, and people-to-people
ties.  And the President looks forward to continue deepening those ties,
which we feel are very much in the interests of both of our countries.

The President and Prime Minister Lee will be meeting at a very critical
time, one in which the rules-based international order faces
unprecedented challenge.  And I think it’s obviously shaped by Russia’s
unprovoked and unjustifiable war against Ukraine, which poses an urgent
threat not only for Europe but also for the Indo-Pacific.

From the Atlantic to the Pacific, we must all redouble efforts to
support Ukraine and preserve a world in which borders cannot be changed
by force. 

At this trying time, we have great respect for all Singapore has done to
support the people of Ukraine, including sanctions and export controls
against Russia.  And I note that this is a very significant development
and one that we deeply appreciate and which highlights what we see as a
broader theme, which is countries in the Indo-Pacific stepping up to
support the international rules-based order through taking meaningful
actions with respect to Ukraine and Russia.

However, even as we address Putin’s war of choice against Ukraine, the
United States remains a proud Indo-Pacific nation.  And we will work
closely with Singapore and other partners to implement our Indo-Pacific
strategy and realize our shared vision of a free and open Indo-Pacific
that is more connected, more prosperous, more secure, and more
resilient.

As I’m sure all of you know, last August, Vice President Harris traveled
to Singapore and broke new ground on a range of key issues.  And this
followed the visit to Singapore by Defense Secretary Austin.  And we’ve
obviously had a number of other senior visits, including by Commerce
Secretary Raimondo and Deputy Secretary Sherman.

I think that what we see is a continued role for our two countries to
deepen and strengthen our cooperation, to address climate change,
cooperate on space and cyber threats, promote inclusive growth and
innovation, as well as resilient supply chains, looking for ways in
which we can further cooperate on fighting COVID-19, preparing for the
next pandemic, facing common security challenges, and deepening
people-to-people ties.

President Biden and Prime Minister Lee will review progress on those
lines of efforts and continue to build stronger cooperation in these
areas.

The President and Prime Minister will also discuss Russia’s war against
Ukraine, our shared interest in elevating U.S.-ASEAN relations,
upholding freedom of the seas, and promoting a return to democracy in
Burma.

And then following the President’s meeting with Prime Minister Lee, the
Vice President will host him for a bilateral meeting at the White
House. 

We believe our strong partnership with Singapore has important benefits
for the American people, including strong support for security in the
Indo-Pacific, as well as strengthening and reinforcing our shared
commitment to a fair, rules-based economic and security order in the
Indo-Pacific region.

So, I think that, you know, from our standpoint, this is very
significant.  Prime Minister Lee, as all of you know, is very
experienced and has been a strong supporter of U.S. engagement in the
region.  We value very much his advice. 

And the President and the Prime Minister have a long relationship and
last saw each other in Rome on the margins of the G20.  And I think that
we are looking forward to a very, very good conversation that really
finds ways to further our common interests.

So, with that, I’m happy to go over this more.  I’m happy to answer any
questions. 

I would note that there is some interest in the issue of the U.S.-ASEAN
Summit.  And, you know, I’m sure many of you have followed that it has
been postponed.  We’re still working with ASEAN on finding appropriate
dates and look forward to continuing to make progress on that.

So, with that, let me turn it over to you all and take some questions.

Q    Can you hear me okay?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yes. 

Q    Yeah, I was wondering — I mean, you mentioned that the war in
Ukraine would come up in discussions, and I wondered if there’s anything
specific that the U.S. President would like to see in terms of
commitments from Singapore vis-à-vis its relationship with China and any
ways that it could put pressure on China to comply with U.S. export
controls on Russia?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Well, thank you very much for that
question.  I think that the first key point is that obviously we expect
the leaders will talk about the war in Ukraine because that is an
overarching challenge to international rules-based order going on right
now. 

Also, the United States is very appreciative and very grateful to
Singapore — as are, I think, many other countries — for Singapore’s very
strong stance on this issue, including its imposition of export controls
and sanctions against Russia. 

I think that we also expect that the leaders will discuss how what is
happening in Ukraine also has implications for the rest of the world,
including the Indo-Pacific. 

I think that, you know, they will also inevitably, I’m sure, discuss key
issues in the Indo-Pacific, including, of course, the role of the United
States in the region, as well as the role of China. 

So, I think that — you know, I don’t want to get ahead of ourselves in
terms of specifics.  I think we’re very happy with what Singapore has
done.  And I think that the key is going to be to continue looking for
ways in which we can expand our cooperation on this and other issues.

Q    Hello.  Can you hear me?  Hello.  Can you hear me?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yes, we can. 

Q    Okay.  Okay, wonderful.  Thank you so much.  I do have two
questions.  First, with the Indo-Pacific Strategy, I was asking the — in
early March, the Singapore Foreign Minister Vivian Balakrishnan
expressed concern over tension between the United States and China.  He
said, “In Asia, trade is strategy.”  So how will President Biden address
Singapore’s concern to Prime Minister Lee tomorrow about this tension
between U.S. and China?  Thank you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Sure.  I think that it’s a very good
question, and it’s obviously a very important topic.  And I think that
we have had extensive discussions with the Singaporean government in the
past 14 months — as well as, obviously, before that — about the
important role of U.S. economic engagement in the region. 

I think that, you know, this came up during the Vice President’s visit. 
It also came up during Commerce Secretary Raimondo’s visit to
Singapore.  And obviously, we expect to discuss that here.

And we should note as well that we’ve had a number of Singaporean
cabinet ministers come to the United States, and we’ve had pretty
extensive discussions on these issues. 

I think that what I would expect is that there will be discussion that
makes clear the U.S. is — already is a very extensive investor, has
extensive trading relations with, obviously, Singapore, but also more
broadly with Southeast Asia.  We’re looking for ways in which we can
expand our engagement. 

We completely understand the argument that there is a tremendous need
for an affirmative economic agenda in the region and that the region
looks to the United States to continue playing a significant role.  I’m
confident that they will have a good discussion on that.  The U.S.
values very much the perspectives of Singapore.  And obviously, we look
forward and I’m sure the President looks forward to sharing the — what
the U.S. — how the U.S. sees the situation and what we will be looking
to do.

Q    All right, thank you.  And the second question will be related to
the military engagement.  You also mentioned Secretary Austin was there
last year.  So, we know that Singapore and the United States signed a
space cooperation treaty today.  At the same time, we know Singapore and
Taiwan have been having military exchange since 1975.  And just last
December, Singapore army was training in Taiwan.  So, with China rapidly
militarizing the South China Sea, how does the U.S. see the importance
of Singapore and Taiwan’s military force for ensuring a free and open
Indo-Pacific?  Thank you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Well, thank you for a complex question
that covers a lot of different issues.  (Laughter.)  I’m not sure I
could really do justice to that with a single answer.  But what I would
say is that we have a great deal of appreciation for Singapore’s strong
role in Indo-Pacific security — both our bilateral cooperation as well
as other things that Singapore does. 

You know, the relationship that Singapore has with Taiwan is their
affair, and that’s not for us to take a position on. 

I think that we welcome, however, the fact that Singapore continues to
seek ways in which they can play a positive role, and we very much
appreciate the role that they play. 

As far as the U.S.-Singapore security partnership, we believe this is
very, very important to the United States and we think that it’s also
valuable for Singapore.  It is quite extensive, and we look forward to
continuing to develop it in ways that support the interests of both of
our countries but also support security in the broader region.

Q    Hello.  I wanted to see if there might be some additional steps
announced tomorrow on sanctions involving Russia or if there were
additional economic partnerships that we should be ready for
announcements tomorrow on that as well.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks for the question.  I mean, you
know that one of the delicate things here is, obviously, we — we are
looking forward to very extensive and thorough discussions.  I don’t
want to get ahead of ourselves, but I think that we expect that there
will be some announcements.

I think that the — you know, they probably will reflect the extreme
strength of the relationship.  And they will be essentially about ways
in which we’re looking to do more together, rather than anything that’s
really fundamental.

At the same time, we think that what is key here is that we have had
such good cooperation and such a strong relationship with Singapore in
so many different areas and — that this is something which we believe
very much serves U.S. interests and we believe also — you know,
Singapore has a very good sense of its — how to advance its own
interests.  And therefore, we are confident that Singapore believes it
serves their interests as well.

In terms of specifics, I don’t want to get ahead of ourselves; I’d say
watch this space.  But I think that, you know, we are looking forward to
very good discussions and a very, very good visit — to the White House,
in particular, but also — more broadly, the Prime Minister’s visit to
the United States, we think, is a very timely — comes at an excellent
time and is one that further highlights the very strong relationship
between our two countries.

Q    Hi, thank you for taking my questions.  Two trade-related
questions.  The first: Do you expect the President or Vice President to
delve deeply into the Indo-Pacific economic framework tomorrow and, kind
of, the specifics of that arrangement?

And then secondly, you know, there’s been some talk that some of the
ASEAN countries want to see more from the Biden administration in terms
of market access and tariffs when it comes to trade.  Will the President
make any sort of commitment along those lines during the meeting
tomorrow?  Thank you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thank you very much.  I think that’s an
excellent point and excellent questions.  I think, on the Indo-Pacific
Economic Framework, we expect that’s going to come up and that there
will be discussion. 

I think that we have had extensive coordination with Singapore and
extensive discussions and a lot of feedback already, so I’m not sure how
much detail it will get into.  But I think that there will be discussion
about what we’re seeking to accomplish and ways in which we think we can
work together.

In terms of, you know, the broader desire for market access and other
and — you know, expanded trade, I think that we are looking for ways in
which we can try and address these concerns and strengthen economic
linkages.  But I think — as you, no doubt, are aware — we’re looking for
ways that can be done using existing frameworks rather than new market
access.

Q    Hey, guys, thanks for doing this.  I know you kind of alluded to it
at the end of your remarks, but I was wondering if you could maybe flesh
out a little bit more what happened behind the scenes with ASEAN, you
know, being announced and then coming down.  I know that there were some
scheduling issues, but maybe you can explain a little more, you know,
what happened there and what kind of timeframe we’re looking at for the
future.

And then also on the subject of sort of international forums, Singapore
was a special invitee to the G20.  I know the President spoke a little
bit over the weekend about how he wanted to address Russia’s
participation in the G20.  But I was wondering if that was going to be a
topic of conversation or if there was any asks for Singapore as you sort
of navigate the situation with Indonesia.  Thanks.

Q    Look, those are great questions.  I think that with regards to the
ASEAN Summit, I mean, just to be very candid, these things were always
hard to schedule.  You’re talking about a bunch of leaders, and I think
that it is clear that there was — you know, there were some challenges
and that, much to our disappointment, we weren’t able to get this locked
down.

On the other hand, you know, having done this in the past — these things
have been hard to do in the past because you are trying to coordinate
the schedules of a bunch of leaders and it involved fairly extensive
travel.

And so I think that, from our standpoint, we’re disappointed but we are
very committed to looking for ways in which we can find a good time to
schedule this.  We believe the clock is ticking, and we want to try and
get this done.  And we’re working very closely with ASEAN to try and
come up with an appropriate time to do this.

In terms of the G20 — it’s a good question.  You know, I think that from
our standpoint — you know, you made the point they’re a special guest. 
I think that, you know, we are very sensitive to the — what that status
means and doesn’t mean. 

So, you know, I don’t want to get ahead of ourselves in terms of what
will or won’t come up.  But I think that, you know, we understand that
this is something where G20 members will have to decide.  And I think
that, as a special guest, Singapore undoubtably will have a voice, but
we don’t want necessarily to put them in a position where they’re being
treated as if they are a full member of the G20.

MODERATOR:  Great, thank you.  Thanks, everyone, for joining.  Just as a
reminder, this call was on background, attributable to a “senior
administration official,” and it’s embargoed until tomorrow 5:00 a.m.
Eastern.

If you have any other follow-ups or questions, feel free to reach out to
me, and we’ll make sure to get back to you.

So, thanks, everyone, again, for joining and talk to you later.

7:24 P.M. EDT
