---
category: press-briefings
date: '2022-03-29'
modified_time: 2022-03-29 19:12:27-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2022/03/29/press-briefing-by-director-of-communications-kate-bedingfield/
published_time: 2022-03-29 19:12:26-04:00
title: Press Briefing by Director of Communications Kate Bedingfield
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

3:10 P.M. EDT  
  
MS. BEDINGFIELD:  Hi, everyone.  I know I am not the redhead you’re
accustomed to seeing at this podium, but I hope you will hang with me
nonetheless.  So, thank you.   
  
Before we — before I take your questions, I wanted to start with a
little bit of a topper here.  So, as you all know, today is Vietnam
Veterans Day, and I’d like to take a moment to highlight critical
investments that the President announced yesterday as part of his budget
to uphold our sacred obligation to veterans and address the mental
health crisis.  
  
During his first State of the Union Address, President Biden outlined a
four-part Unity Agenda focused on areas where members of both parties
can come together and make additional progress for the American
people.   
  
The President’s budget advances this Unity Agenda through targeted
investments to take on the mental health crisis, accelerate progress
against cancer, deliver on our commitment to veterans, and combat the
opioid epidemic — all while cutting the deficit and not raising taxes on
anyone earning less than $400,000 a year.  
  
The budget proposes transformative mental health reforms that would
expand coverage, reduce costs, and increase the number of mental health
providers.  
  
As we commemorate Vietnam Veterans Day, I wanted to highlight how the
budget proposes funding to improve VA services, reduce veteran suicide,
end veteran homelessness, and address military toxic exposures.  And it
tackles the opioid and overdose epidemic with significant investments to
reduce the illicit supply of drugs in our communities and prevent
substance-use disorder, expand treatment, and help people recover.  
  
Today, I also wanted to celebrate another example of the success of the
President’s industrial policy with Governor Roy Cooper announcing the
electric vehicle maker VinFast is investing $4 billion to build electric
vehicles and batteries in North Carolina.  That’s an investment that
will create more than 7,000 jobs on top of the 423,000 manufacturing
jobs created on the President’s watch in his first year in office — the
most in a single year since the early 1990s.   
  
We’re building on that momentum with the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law —
which is making historic investments in our roads, bridges, airports,
and more — along with things like EV charging stations that are critical
for America to own emerging industries.   
  
And we have a chance to redouble that progress with the Bipartisan
Innovation Act, which cleared through the Senate last night with a
massive bipartisan majority.  This is legislation that will boost
manufacturing, strengthen our supply chains, lower prices, and boost our
economic and national security by making more critical components, like
semiconductors, right here in America.  
  
We look forward to the House of Representatives moving quickly to start
the formal conference on that bill so we can get this to the President’s
desk as soon as possible.  
  
And with that, I’m happy to take your questions.  
  
Darlene, why don’t you kick us off?  
  
Q    Thanks, Kate.  And welcome.   
  
MS. BEDINGFIELD:  Thank you.   
  
Q    I wanted to follow up with one question on the readout from the
President’s call earlier today with the European leaders.  Can you say
if they spent any time at all talking about his comment that Putin
cannot remain in power or should not remain in power?  
  
MS. BEDINGFIELD:  They did not.  I spoke with the President about this
earlier.  They did not.  They were incredibly aligned, however, and
spoke to some of the key issues that we are focused on here, including
supply to — supplying weapons to Ukraine, including increasing costs on
Russia, continuing to increase sanctions, supporting stable energy
markets, and, of course, the state of diplomatic negotiations.  
  
And obviously, the conversation today came on the heels of the
President’s successful trip to Europe last week, in which he stood with
some of our European allies and announced efforts to redouble NATO
forces on the eastern flank, to announce an additional $1 billion in
humanitarian aid to Ukraine, and to — and to continue to show incredible
unity with our European partners and Allies as we tackle this crisis in
Russia.  
  
Q    A second question.  Is there any comment or reaction to the FDA
approving a fourth booster shot for people over 50?  
  
MS. BEDINGFIELD:  So, this is a good thing and it is a straightforward
thing.  The CDC and the FDA are now allowing and will make available
booster shots — a fourth shot — for people over 50, for the — and for
the immunocompromised.  This is — we have plenty of supply to ensure
that those populations can receive these shots.   
  
But what I would say is that if it — at some point, it becomes
recommended that the full — the full population requires a fourth shot,
we’re going to need additional funding.  We’re going to need the
additional funding we’ve requested of Congress to be able to provide —
to provide those shots for the — for the broader population.   
  
But we do have the supply, and people will be able to go — people in
those populations, 50 and up, will be able to go and get those shots.  
  
Q    Thank you.  
  
MS. BEDINGFIELD:  Mike Memoli.  
  
Q    Thank you.  First, I wanted to ask about the Turks \[sic\] that are
happening — talks that are happening underway in Turkey between the
Russians and the Ukrainians.  What is the White House’s visibility into
those discussions?    
  
And have U.S. officials seen any evidence to back up Russia’s claims
that they’re pulling some of their forces back from Kyiv?  Obviously,
the President said he wanted to see what the Russians actually did
versus what they say.  
  
MS. BEDINGFIELD:  Yeah.  So, we are in close contact with the Ukrainians
and are supportive of their efforts to engage in diplomacy and to try to
reach a ceasefire.  We are prepared to be helpful however we can and are
focused on putting Ukraine in the strongest possible position both on
the battlefield and at the negotiating table.  
  
We, obviously, continue to provide security assistance, to provide
weapons to ensure that they are able to push back on Russian
aggression.  And we continue to increase pressure on Putin and on Russia
by imposing severe costs in partnership with our Allies and partners.   
  
So, we defer to the Ukrainians to discuss the specifics of the
negotiations.  But we are, of course, committed to a Ukraine that is —
that is sovereign, independent, and secure.  And we are in constant
conversation with the Ukrainian government and our Allies and partners. 
But, as always, we keep those conversations private.  
  
To your second question about Kyiv, obviously — and what we heard from
the Russians today — you obviously heard the President address this and
say that we’ll need to watch and see if their actions meet their words. 
But I think we should be clear-eyed about the reality of what’s
happening on the ground and no one should be fooled by Russia’s
announcements.   
  
We believe any movement of forces from around Kyiv is a redeployment and
not a withdrawal.  And the world should be prepared for a major
offensive against other areas of Ukraine.  Everyone should expect that
we’re going to continue to see attacks across Ukraine.   
  
Obviously, a key message that the President delivered on his trip to
Eur- — in his trip to Europe last week was that we are in for a long
slog; that our Allies and partners need to remain — that our resolve
needs to remain strong; and that we need to continue to execute on the
strategy of inflicting significant costs on the Russian economy and,
again, strengthening Ukraine on the battlefields and at the negotiating
table.  
  
Q    And, Kate, on the subject of the President’s remarks in Poland
about President Putin: Obviously, yesterday, he tried to suggest that
there was a distinction between his personal views of what he thought
was a moral outrage versus an official policy position on the part of
the United States.   
  
But you know full well something that candidate Joe Biden said virtually
every day on the campaign trail, which is that the words of a president
matter; that they can, as he often put it, lead a country into war.    
  
Is he not living up to the standard that he set himself during the
campaign?  
  
MS. BEDINGFIELD:  Absolutely not.  I think the words of the President
here were incredibly powerful.  He spoke personally about the moral
outrage that he felt, which is shared by people all across the world. 
It does not mean he’s articulating a change in policy.  It does not mean
he’s laying out a change in U.S. policy.  
  
He met with refugees — as, again, many of you were on that trip and saw
— and saw firsthand some of the pain that Vladimir Putin has inflicted
on people who are fleeing their homes and who are seeing their country
war-torn.    
  
So this was an incredibly personal, powerful statement of moral outrage;
it was not an articulation of a new U.S. policy.   
  
And I think both of those things can be and are true.  
  
Q    And you’ve spent some time with the President — last question, Kate
— is he frustrated or does he regret that those words at the very end of
the speech overshadowed a larger message, which obviously he put a lot
of thought into in the days leading —  
  
MS. BEDINGFIELD:  Absolutely not.  He spoke from the heart.  He, as he
always does — as you know very well from having covered him for a long
time, as many of you do, and as the American people know — he speaks
from the heart.  He says what he feels.  And, no, he absolutely does not
regret that in any way.  
  
Justin Sink.  
  
Q    Hey, Kate.  Following on Darlene’s question.  Will the President
and Vice President be receiving fourth booster shots?  And do you have a
sense of timeline on that?  
  
MS. BEDINGFIELD:  So, I can speak to the President, who will make this
decision in consultation with his doctor.  Obviously, if his doctor
recommends that he receive a fourth booster, then he would.  But he’ll
make that decision in consultation with his doctor.    
  
I will check on the Vice President.  I don’t know.  
  
Q    And then, earlier, you were talking about the call and supporting
stable energy markets.  During the President’s trip last week, there
seemed to be momentum behind the idea of a coordinated Strategic
Petroleum Reserve release.  And so I’m wondering if you can provide any
update on whether that topic came up in the conversation today or a
timeframe or outlook for that.  
  
MS. BEDINGFIELD:  I can only say that they spoke to the stability of
energy markets writ large and the need to keep them stable.  I don’t
have any specifics to preview in terms of any coming announcements.  
  
What I would say more broadly, of course, is that obviously President
Biden is very focused on ensuring that we minimize fluctuations as much
as possible at the gas — at the gas pump and prices in general for
American families.    
  
He is doing everything he can to combat Putin’s price hike here at
home.  That’s why they — we did the initial coordinated release of 60
million barrels from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve.  And he will
continue to focus on this, but I don’t have any specific preview that I
can give you at this time.   
  
Q    And then, one last one.  Our friends over at the Journal yesterday
reported that members of the Ukrainian peace negotiation team have
exhibited signs of a potential poisoning.  I’m wondering if that was
something the U.S. has been aware of, tracking, and if you, sort of,
ascribe responsibility to the Russians.  
  
Q    So, we are certainly aware.  We are obviously alarmed by these
reports, especially given the fact that this is something that
historically has been in Russia’s playbook.  But I do not have any
confirmation at this time, except to say that we are aware.    
  
Kaitlan.  
  
Q    Thanks, Kate.  You just said — and the Pentagon is also saying the
same thing — that any movement of forces in Ukraine of Russian forces is
not a withdrawal but a repositioning.  Is that based on intelligence? 
Or what is — what is that based on?   
  
MS. BEDINGFIELD:  That is based on the fact that we need to see what the
Russians actually do before we trust solely what they’ve said.  
  
We saw from the outset that they made an aggressive push toward Kyiv at
the beginning of this conflict.  And we have no reason to believe that
they have adjusted — that they’ve adjusted that strategy.   
  
Obviously, we continue to do everything we can to impose costs for this
decision.  We will continue to execute on our strategy.  But as you
heard the President say, we are not going to take their word for it. 
We’re going to wait to see what their actions look like.    
  
Q    And the British Prime Minister said today that they won’t accept
anything less than a full withdrawal of all Russian forces from
Ukrainian territory.  Does President Biden share that view that reduced
military activity is not enough?  
  
MS. BEDINGFIELD:  Well, we are going to allow the Ukrainians to — to
execute on these negotiations.  It’s not our role to begin the
negotiation.  Again, our role is to strengthen Ukraine on the
battlefield, to try to strengthen Ukraine at the negotiating table
by <s>implying</s> \[employing\] these sanctions and costs to Russia. 
But I’m not going to — to pre-judge or pre-determine an outcome for that
conversation.   
  
Q    And last question for you.  Jared Kushner is set to testify before
the January 6th Committee on Thursday virtually.  Has the White House
had any communication with him about whether or not you’re going to
waive any executive privilege claims that he could make?   
  
MS. BEDINGFIELD:  So, obviously, the President has spoken to the fact
that January 6th was one of the darkest days in our country’s history
and that we must have a full accounting of what happened to ensure that
it never occurs again.    
  
And he’s been quite clear that they posed a unique threat to our
democracy and that the constitutional protections of executive privilege
should not be used to shield from Congress or the public information
about an attack on the Constitution itself.    
  
And so, as a result, the White House has decided not to assert executive
privilege over the testimony of Jared Kushner and Ivanka Trump.   
  
Q    And have you communicated that to Jared Kushner’s team?  Or is this
a communication error?  
  
MS. BEDINGFIELD:  I won’t — I won’t spe- — I won’t speak to private
communication between our attorneys and his.  
  
Q    Thank you.  
  
Q    Thank you, Kate.  Just, sort of, with Russia redeploying to focus
on eastern Ukraine, what is your view on whether Russia should be
allowed to retain control of the Donbas region?   
  
As you’re aware, they have, you know, just today said that, you know,
that is what — that is what their demand is.  And I’m wondering if the
U.S. has a formalized position on that.   
  
MS. BEDINGFIELD:  So, again, I am not going to pre-judge where these
negotiations ultimately net out.  We are doing everything we can to
provide weapons to the Ukrainian people so that they can turn back
Russian aggression.  And we’re doing everything we can to impose severe
costs on Russia and on the Russian economy.   
  
I am not going to pre-judge the ultimate outcome, certainly not from
standing here at this podium.   
  
Q    And just a quick question on the Deputy Treasury Secretary.  He
spoke a little while earlier and said there were more sanctions coming;
this time, they’ll be focused on Russian supply chains.  Are there any
more details that you can potentially share with us on what that looks
like and when that will happen?  
  
MS. BEDINGFIELD:  So, I don’t have additional specifics that I can
provide in terms of announcements coming at this time, except to say,
more broadly, you know, that certainly we have hit, in consu- — in
concert with our Allies and partners, we have hit very hard at the
things that Putin cares about the most: degrading his military, access
to cutting-edge technology, chipping away at his chokehold on energy,
and ability to project power and influence.   
  
And, of course, we will continue to intensify and we’re not going to run
out of options anytime soon.  There are plenty of things that we can do,
including broadening sanctions to new targets, deepening the severity of
sanctions that are existing.    
  
So, I don’t have any specifics to announce at this time, except to say
that there are certainly other options should we decide to move forward
with them.  
  
Q    Can I ask about — just follow up on the January 6th Committee. 
Liberals have suggested that they’re disappointed with the way that the
Justice Department, under Attorney General Garland, has approached the
former President.  How does the President feel about this question?  
  
MS. BEDINGFIELD:  The President has the utmost respect for the
independence of the Department of Justice and does not have any comment
on that.  
  
Q    And so, the sense here is that the President has confidence in the
way the Justice Department has been handling all of these cases?   
  
MS. BEDINGFIELD:  Again, I’m not going to speak to specific handling of
cases.  Obviously, the President has full faith in Attorney General
Garland to run his department the way he sees fit.   
  
Q    Kate.  
  
MS. BEDINGFIELD:  Cleve.  
  
Q    Hey, on the President and the coronavirus, you’ve said there’ll be
consultations about a fourth shot.  I wonder, with the President’s
recent travel overseas, with several members of the White House staff
coming down with coronavirus, are there any additional measures or
medication — anything else that’s being done to sort of protect the
President’s health and welfare?  
  
MS. BEDINGFIELD:  So, you know, let me talk a little bit about some of
the procedures and give you an overview of our policy here.   
  
So, the White House takes incredibly strong precautions in alignment and
sometimes, as you all know, beyond CDC guidance to ensure that we’re
keeping a safe workplace, especially for the President of United
States.    
  
So, all EOP — Executive Office of the President — employees who surround
the President are tested on a regular cadence here on campus to screen
for COVID.  That is a step beyond CDC guidance to help lower the risk of
COVID on campus.  We do regular — regular screening, testing.   
  
The President’s doctor determines if additional testing is needed in any
given week, in light of various considerations.   
  
So, more specifically to your question, because of his travel this week,
he will test in addition to his regular testing cadence.   
  
Everyone going into a meeting with one of the four principals is
required to test ahead of time.  And that’s how we know about some of
these positive cases in the first place.   
  
So, for those employees who test positive, they’re required to isolate
in alignment with CDC guidance and must test negative before turning to
— returning to work, which is also a step beyond CDC guidance.   
  
So, we take every — every measure here to ensure that we are protecting
the four principals and also protecting our staff and our workforce. 
But because of his travel, he will do some additional testing, in
addition to his regular cadence.    
  
Q    Sorry, just to follow up — I want to make sure I’m clear — what
about any medications?  Is he taking any additional medications or any
other treatments or anything like that?  
  
I understand about the testing and about — we all get tested when we get
near the President.  But is there anything else?  
  
MS. BEDINGFIELD:  That’s not something that I — I’m not going to get
into private medical information from here, except to say that the
President will receive additional testing as part of his cadence to
ensure that — that COVID — that he doesn’t have COVID.  
  
Q    Thank you.  
  
Q    Hi there.  Thank you.  Just to follow up on that, when was he last
tested?  And, I guess, we presume he was negative because he’s with the
Prime Minister.  
  
MS. BEDINGFIELD:  Yes.  You know, I will get you the date.  I want to
say — I actually want to say it was yesterday.  But — because I think we
announced it publicly yesterday.   
  
So I believe his last test was yesterday.  And, yes, it was negative.   
  
Q    He said yesterday that he would be willing to meet with President
Putin again or talk to him.  I’m wondering what specific circumstances
need to be met for such a meeting to take place.  
  
MS. BEDINGFIELD:  Well, I think he articulated pretty clearly that it
would depend on what President Putin wanted to talk about.   
  
Now, I’m not going to set — I’m not going to set preconditions for a
conversation between President Biden and President Putin, except to say
that we have been very clear and President Biden has been very clear
that there needs to be tangible de-escalation from Russia and a clear,
genuine commitment to diplomacy before the President would have that
kind of conversation.  
  
Q    Yeah, and on the COVID funding: Do you have any update?  I know you
say you need the money, but do you have any update on the negotiations? 
It seems like there are serious conversations happening up on the Hill. 
Do you have any sense of when or how this might be resolved?  Are you
more optimistic than you were last week, for instance?  
  
MS. BEDINGFIELD:  Well, we’re continuing to push.  I mean, this — this
funding is important.  It’s going to be important to ensure that we are
well funded in the event that another variant comes along or in the
event that we see another wave that we need to be prepared for.  So, you
know, we view this funding as really critical.   
  
We’ve been working with Congress, as you know well, for the last several
months.  They know that we need the funding to stay ahead of the virus. 
They’re also aware of some of the specific details — like, for example,
that already the uninsured fund has stopped accepti- — accepting claims
and we’ve been forced to cut monoclonal supply to states by a third this
week.  So, there are real, tangible impacts to not having this
funding.   
  
I think there is widespread agreement that funding for vaccines, tests,
and treatments is urgent and critical.  And we need to see this urgency
from Congress, and we’re going to continue to push.  
  
Q    Thanks.  Ukraine is now asking for security guarantees as part of
these negotiations.  What kinds of guarantees is the U.S. willing to
provide to ensure Ukraine’s sovereignty?  
  
MS. BEDINGFIELD:  So, these are not specifics that I’m prepared to be
able to announce from this podium.  Obviously, we are working very
closely with Ukraine on a wide array of options, things to help ensure
we are — ensure their sovereignty and ensure their security.  

Now, some of that is providing the weapons that we’re providing; some of
that is continuing to push on sanctions and costs on Russia.  But I
don’t have any specifics to preview for you on any — on any discussions
about security guarantees.

Q    And on the concern over chemical weapons — you know, with Russia
now seeming to make some concessions and at least promising to reduce
military activity, are you still as concerned that Russia could use
chemical weapons?  Or is that threat seen as diminishing?  
  
MS. BEDINGFIELD:  We continue to prepare for every contingency.  We
obviously take seriously a wide array of potential options.  There has
been reporting in the public — in the public sphere over the last weeks
about all the work that our teams are doing to prepare for
eventualities.  

So I’m not going to rate the likelihood of one or another outcome except
to say that our teams are preparing for — for all eventualities.  And,
you know, the President has been very clear that, you know, we will
respond with severe consequences, as we have responded with severe
consequences to every action Russia has taken up until this point.  

Q    And just a similar question with regards to China: Do you see
Russia’s promise to somehow pull back some of its forces as a sign that
China is not willing to or will not be assisting them?  
  
MS. BEDINGFIELD:  So I don’t have any updated guidance beyond what you
all heard from Jake, for example, last week about us not having seen any
evidence of China providing any sort of military assistance to Russia.  

Jacqui.  
  
Q    Thank you, Kate.  There are reports that the administration is
going to require COVID vaccines for undocumented migrants at the
southwest border just as Title 42 is expected to end and right after the
fourth shot got FDA approval.  

You just highlighted the impacts of not having enough COVID funding when
it comes to paying for shots for the uninsured and sending shipments of
treatments to states.  So why would the administration give out free
vaccines to undocumented migrants but not to, for instance, uninsured
Americans?  
  
MS. BEDINGFIELD:  Well, to be clear, we have the supply that we need in
this moment to vaccinate Americans here in this country.  I don’t want
to conflate those two things because I think that’s not a — that’s not
an accurate representation of what I said.

We have — we have the supply that we need to vaccinate Americans.  What
we are asking for is funding to prepare for future eventualities and to
ensure that we have what we need as we move forward.  

Now, on your question about the border, this is nothing new.  The effort
to vaccinate migrants in our care and custody has been ongoing for
months.  ICE has been providing vaccines to migrants since the summer of
2021.  And we’re always assessing the situation and addressing protocols
based on changing CDC guidance.  

You know, but in order to ensure the safety of border communities and
the workforce and the migrants themselves, DHS is now requiring
age-appropriate vaccinations for non-citizens who are taken into Border
Patrol custody.  

But again, this is consistent with overall CDC guidance for those
entering the country, be it by air or land.  And we know that
vaccinating people is the best way to protect from the virus and to
protect against the spread of the virus.  
  
Q    Can you clarify, though: The New York Times story framed it as
something that was about to get underway in certain sectors of the
southwest border.  Is this some- — this requirement for a vaccine.  Is —
is that accurate?  Is that something that is going to take place? 
Because — and the reason I ask is you’re talking about future supply and
this is a future effort.  How are those two things not sort of in
conflict?  
  
MS. BEDINGFIELD:  Well, as I said, it’s — it is actually nothing new.  I
mean, we have been vaccinating migrants in our care and custody for
many, many months.  So ICE, as I said, has been providing vaccines to
migrants since the summer of 2021.  So this is not anything new.  As we
know, that this is — again, the best way to protect people from the
virus and to prevent the spread of the virus is to ensure that they’re
vaccinated.  

Q    Can you confirm Title 42 is about to end then?

MS. BEDINGFIELD:  I have no announcement that I can make on Title —
Title 42.

Q    And then, on Ukraine: Yesterday, did the President accidentally
reveal a previously unknown effort for the U.S. to be training Ukrainian
forces in Poland during his answer in the press conference?  
  
MS. BEDINGFIELD:  No.  The troops that he met with in Poland routinely
interact with Ukrainians.  That is something that’s known.  Many of you
were, again, on the trip with us.  That is something that’s known.  That
is in no way revealing compromised information.  

That being said, there’s nothing further that I have to say on that
beyond what the President said yesterday.  
  
Q    Just to follow up, I know you said just now you don’t have any news
on Title 42, which expires on Friday — or at least the current use of
it.  When you were — when we were in Europe, the President announced
that he’s admitting 100,000 Ukrainian asylum seekers.  They are exempt
from Title 42.  Why?  
  
MS. BEDINGFIELD:  So, obviously, we are looking at an extreme crisis in
Ukraine.  I think it’s — it is — it is easy to look at the incredible
volume of displacement and the duress that people are under in Ukraine
and understand that we need to make — we need to make efforts to ensure
that we are moving to get them to places that are safe.  

What I can say more broadly about our efforts to — to bring 100,000
Ukrainian refugees into the country is that, you know, we anticipate
that most of these refugees will want to stay closer to home, will want
to stay in Europe.  But we are making every — we are putting forward
this effort to ensure that we’re able to — to accommodate 100,000.

Obviously, on the specifics of that, I would have to refer you to the
State Department on the specific workings.  But it is important — as you
heard the President say when we were overseas, it’s important for the
United States to do its part and for those countries bordering Ukraine
to not be the only ones to shoulder the burden.  You heard him talk
about that while we were on the ground in Warsaw.  
  
Q    Understood.  So the policy decision has been made that the war in
Ukraine and the displacement of those people is more urgent to the
United States than the displacement of millions of people due to
earthquakes, hurricanes, and political strife in this hemisphere?  
  
MS. BEDINGFIELD:  I think that’s a little bit putting words in my
mouth.  My point was only that we’re —

Q    That’s how it would be interpreted though —

MS. BEDINGFIELD:  — that that’s — 

Q    — by immigration advocates and others on this side of the world.

MS. BEDINGFIELD:  That’s a little bit putting words in my mouth.  All
I’m saying is that we have put forward a process to allow a hundred
thou- — to bring 100,000 Ukrainian refugees into the country, given the
incredible duress and the crisis that they’re facing in their
homeland.  
  
Q    Two other quick follow-ups.  You said to Cleve, on the question of
any medications the President may be taking because of COVID, that
that’s private medical information.  Is that to say that if he is taking
something currently, it will be revealed in his next medical report that
we get at some point —

MS. BEDINGFIELD:  That’s to —

Q    — the way that Eliquis and Crestor and Dymista had been revealed in
the last one?  
  
MS. BEDINGFIELD:  That’s simply to say that I don’t have anything in
this moment to provide at this — at the podium.  That’s medical
information.  If there is a moment in which it needs to be disclosed, it
would obviously be disclosed.  As you know, we put out an incredibly
fulsome physical report on the President’s health every year.  

So that’s simply to say I don’t have anything to disclose from this
podium at this time.  
  
Q    Gotcha.  And then, on the Trump logs that appear to have hours of
information missing, has the January 6th Committee asked this White
House to try to find that information or implore the Archives to dig
deeper for them?  Has the White House Counsel’s Office attempted to help
reconstruct that record at all?

MS. BEDINGFIELD:  I would refer you to — to the Archives on that.  I
don’t have any additional information from the Counsel’s Office at this
time.  
  
Q    Thank you, Kate.  Two ones on Ukraine again, if I may.  So the
sanctions are obviously the stick.  Is there — is there some thinking
already about what that carrot could be?  You know, essentially, is
there going to be some sort of schedule laid out like, you know, “You do
this, this comes off”?  You know, a roadmap, I suppose, is what it’s
called.

MS. BEDINGFIELD:  Well, I don’t know that Russian activity at this time
necessarily merits a carrot.  We have been very focused on the stick.  

Again, I am not going to prejudge or lay down any contours of any
ultimate negotiation.  That is not our role.  Again, our role is to
strengthen Ukraine on the battlefield, strengthen Ukraine at the
negotiating table.  I’m not going to prejudge any of the — what
ultimately those diplomatic solutions may or may not look like.  
  
Q    Okay.  And just following up on your previous answer about the —
the troops in Poland.  Jen did say clearly, last week, there are no U.S.
training programs for Ukrainians outside of Ukraine — obviously not in
Ukraine, but nowhere else either.  I actually asked the question; that’s
what she said — “no.”

So the President, yesterday — and I’ve got his quote; he was very
clear.  He said when he was — when he had this chat with the U.S.
troops, he said it was all about them “helping \[to\] train” Ukrainian
troops that are in Poland.  So are they training them in Poland or are
they not training them in Poland?  
  
MS. BEDINGFIELD:  Well, as I said, there is regular interaction between
Ukrainian soldiers in Poland and the U.S. troops that the President saw
on the trip.  There’s nothing — no further detail that I can add on
that, except to say that there is regular interaction.  

As you saw, we were there near the border.  And there’s regular
interaction between those troops that he saw and Ukrainians.  

Yes.

Q    Thanks, Kate.

Q    No, go ahead.

Q    Just to follow up on Russian oligarch Abramovich, who was
photographed today during the peace talks.  Does the U.S. have a clear
idea of what his role is during these talks?  
  
MS. BEDINGFIELD:  I don’t have more to say from this podium about his
role.  You know, that is something that I am simply not equipped to
speak to in this moment, except to say, again, of course, that we are —
we are looking at the allegations into potential harm to him and
tracking very closely.   
Q    And just to follow up on the refugees — the 100,000 announcement
from last week.  We were told that there would be a range of legal
pathways for them and that would be announced.  Is that something that
you guys are still working on?  Or are we — can we expect, you know,
details about that program soon?  
  
MS. BEDINGFIELD:  It is.  And, you know, to meet the commitment that the
President laid out to welcome 100,000 Ukrainian refugees, we’re
considering the full range of legal pathways to the United States.  So,
that includes the U.S. Refugee Admissions Program, that includes parole,
that includes immigrant and non-immigrant visas.  So we are continuing
to work through those options.   
  
And again, ultimately, I would refer you to the State Department for
additional detail on how that will — how that will work.  
  
Q    Can I ask you — can I ask you a follow-up question on refugees?  
  
MS. BEDINGFIELD:  Sure.   
  
Q    So, many people have been advocating that what you are doing for
Ukrainians right now is what you should also do for Ethiopia.  As you
know, tens of thousands of Ethiopians have been killed, millions have
been displaced.  Why not do the same thing that you do to Europeans to
Africans — to Ethiopians and then to Cameroonians?  
  
And then one second question.  I want to talk about Will Smith and Chris
Rock.  You know, it’s the biggest story right now.  You saw the level of
violence that was on — was unleashed on Chris Rock.  Is that something
that the White House condones, the type — that type of violence?  Do you
condemn it?  And do you do anything to support comedians who have been
attacked and other artists?  Thank you.   
  
MS. BEDINGFIELD:  So I don’t have any official comment from the White
House on the altercation.  I know the President was not able to watch
the Oscars — didn’t see it.  So I don’t have anything — I don’t have any
official comment from him or from the White House on this.  
  
Yeah.  
  
Q    Thank you —  
  
Q    Kate, are you going to answer the Ethiopian question?  
  
Q    And the question on Ethiopia —  
  
MS. BEDINGFIELD:  Yeah.  Yeah.   
  
Q    — the Ethiopia question, you didn’t —  
  
Q    Exactly.  
  
MS. BEDINGFIELD:  I don’t have — I’m sorry, I don’t have any — you’re
right.  I don’t have any additional detail on any plans there.   
  
Obviously, you know, as we are focused on working to bring — to welcome
100,000 Ukrainian refugees here, that does not — you know, that does not
eliminate work that’s being done in other areas.    
  
I don’t have any specifics to announce from this podium at this time on
any plans there.  
  
Q    But do you condemn the violence at the Oscars?  Is it — is that
something that you condemn, or you can’t —  
  
MS. BEDINGFIELD:  I don’t — I don’t have a White House comment on
that.  
  
Philip, yes.  
  
Q    Thank you.  The Washington Post reports that Anita Dunn was here at
the White House on a special one-week assignment last month.  I’m
wondering if you could tell us a little bit more about, you know, what
was so important for her to be brought in on a one-week assignment like
that?   
  
And then do any other staffers or former staffers in Biden world enjoy
that sort of drop-in opportunity?  
  
And finally, is it true that Dunn avoided any ethics rules that would
restrict former White House officials from lobbying one year after
leaving their post?   
  
MS. BEDINGFIELD:  So what I would say to that is Anita is an incredibly
trusted advisor who has known the President for a long time.  And she
did recently come back to the White House temporarily to bring her
expertise and add capacity at a key time for the White House.  She came
to fill in for a staffer who needed to be out for personal reasons.   
  
She did this as an SGE, as you know — a Special Government Employee —
which is a temporary, short-term assignment and classification for
employees who come to work for the White House in a temporary — in a
temporary manner.  It’s a designation that past administrations have
used for the same purpose.  And Anita is not the only person to have
served in this administration as an SGE.  
  
Anita and other SGEs receive rigorous counseling on their ethics
obligations as an SGE, including avoiding any potential conflicts of
interest.  And Anita, of course, has always held herself to the highest
standards, consistent with this administration’s commitment to ethics,
abiding by all federal ethics laws and policies applicable to SGEs.   
  
Q    And then one more.  Forty-five minutes after the President’s
remarks wrapped in Warsaw on Saturday, that was when a statement landed
in everyone’s inboxes from an unnamed White House official saying that,
no, the administration did not, in fact, change its policy with regards
to Russia.   
  
I’m wondering if you can tell us anything about what happened in the
interim — in that 45 minutes.  Did the President himself conclude that
perhaps there needed to be some further clarification?  Or did White
House advisors come to him and say, “Perhaps you should revisit your
recent remarks”?  Why was that statement issued?   
  
MS. BEDINGFIELD:  Well, I can tell you from working for President Biden
for seven years that only President Biden decides what President Biden
is going to say.    
  
So, the statement was simply a confirmation of what the President — of
what you then heard from the President himself yesterday — that that
statement did not represent a policy change — official policy change on
behalf the United States.  
  
Q    But who prompted it?  Who prompted it, Kate?  I mean, did that come
from the President?  That particular statement that he’s referencing,
did that come from him to you all?  Or did you all go to him and say,
“We have to put this out”?  
  
MS. BEDINGFIELD:  I’m not going to get into any further back-and-forth,
except to say that I have worked for him for a long time and only he
determines what he’s going to say.  
  
Q    And a — and a quick follow-up?  A real —  
  
MS. BEDINGFIELD:  Sure.  
  
Q    — quick follow-up.  Have you all considered — when I spoke with
authorities in Ukraine, they were saying the no — the no-fly zone or the
cap — the fly cap that they’d like over their country would be — they
could sustain that with lend-lease of aircraft and volunteer pilots. 
Has that been approached?  Has the administration considered that? 
Would they consider — or would they consider that?  
  
MS. BEDINGFIELD:  Well, I think the President has been explicitly clear
that he does not intend to engage U.S. troops in any way in direct
conflict with the Russian military.    
  
Q    Right.  But this wouldn’t be troops.   
  
MS. BEDINGFIELD:  And so — I’m sorry?  
  
Q    This wouldn’t be troops.  They’re talking about lend-lease for the
aircraft, and they would supply the pilots.  
  
MS. BEDINGFIELD:  They’re — so, I guess, a couple of things: One is the
assessment of our military is that the — the anti-air, anti-tank, the
munitions that we’re providing to the Ukrainians are the most effective
things that they can have on the battlefield.  That’s the assessment of
our military commanders and, of course, something that the President
factors significantly into his decision making.   
  
The second thing I would say is that, again, he has been very clear that
he is not interested in engaging the U.S. military in direct conflict
with Russia.  And there are logist- — there’s — you know, for example,
on the question of the MiGs, there are significant logistical challenges
that may raise those issues.   
  
So, as to whether there’s a specific discussion about lend-lease, I
don’t have any further detail that I can provide on that, except to just
lay out those, kind of, two key points that have really been driving the
President’s thinking and decision making on this.  
  
Q    And as far as the assessment of the sanctions, when they first went
in, the President said, “Hey, give us a month” and then we’ll look at
them.  It’s been a month.  Are you happy?  Or what would you like to
change?  Or are you satisfied with where they’re going?  
  
MS. BEDINGFIELD:  With regard to the sanctions that have been —  
  
Q    Yeah.  
  
MS. BEDINGFIELD:  — applied to Russia?  
  
Q    Yes.  
  
MS. BEDINGFIELD:  I think you’ve seen us continue to escalate over the
course of the last — since the invasion began on the 24th of February. 
You’ve seen unprecedented costs inflicted on the Russian economy.  I
think, again, even just last week, while he was in Europe, the President
announced another round of sanctions in consultation with our Allies and
partners.  So we continue to increase the pressure and to ensure that we
are inflicting maximum cost on Russia for its aggression.   
  
Q    So you’re happy with them?   
  
Q    Kate, I wanted to know: What will President Biden’s response if
Israel bombs Iran’s nuclear reactors?  
  
MS. BEDINGFIELD:  I — I am not going to get into that kind of — that
kind of hypothetical, but thank you — (laughter) — thank you for the
question.  
  
Yeah.  
  
Q    Hi.  So, there are reports that the administration is considering
providing Ukraine with an additional $500 million in aid and is pushing
European countries to make the same sort of effort.  Can you confirm or
provide — and provide more details on that?  
  
MS. BEDINGFIELD:  So, what I can say to that is we are in constant
consultation with our Allies and partners about continued aid to
Ukraine.  But discussion of a specific dollar amount — there’s no
discussion currently of a specific dollar amount.   
  
Q    Kate, a few questions on Singapore.  The first question is: The
Prime Minister welcomed the Indo-Pacific Economic Framework.  When will
see — when will we see the exact plan?  And will the framework need to
be ratified by the Congress?  
  
MS. BEDINGFIELD:  So, I don’t have an update on timeline for you on
that.  I would — we’ll be happy to come back to you with further
information, but I don’t have an update on when you can expect to see a
timeline for that.    
  
I can certainly say that today’s meeting between the two leaders
demonstrated the strong security, economic, and people-to-people ties
shared by the United States and Singapore.  And President Biden looks
forward to continuing to deepen those ties.  
  
Q    And also in the joint statement, the U.S. and Singapore reaffirmed
the right of freedom of navigation accorded by international laws,
including UNCLOS.  Will the U.S. ratify UNCLOS under Biden
administration?  
  
MS. BEDINGFIELD:  I don’t have an answer for you at this moment, but I’m
happy to get more information and come back to you on it.  
  
Q    Thanks, Kate.  
  
Q    Thank you.  I have a couple quick ones.  I have a couple of quick
ones for you before we go.  Following up on what Tarini asked you with
regards to the refugee programs, it can take years for refugees to be
able to be vetted to come into the United States.  So does the White
House have a sense of how quickly the Ukrainian refugees will be able to
come to the U.S.?  
  
MS. BEDINGFIELD:  We’re working to move as quickly as possible.  I don’t
have a firm timeline that I can give you, but obviously, we’ll move as
quickly as possible to bring in as many — up to that 100,000 as we
possibly can.  
  
Q    And after Florida Governor Ron DeSantis, yesterday, signed the
state’s Parental Rights in Education legislation, Education Secretary
Miguel Cardona said the administration will be monitoring its
implementation “to evaluate whether it violates federal civil rights
law.”   
  
Aside from monitoring the Florida law, is there any other actions that
the White House plans to take?  
  
MS. BEDINGFIELD:  Well, both the President and Secretary Cardona spoke
out very forcefully against the law.  The President also put out a
statement yesterday about the tragic impact of this kind of law on an
incredibly vulnerable population.  And he said that, you know, by
signing this bill, the governor has chosen to target some of Florida’s
most vulnerable students and families, all while under the guise of
parents’ rights.   
  
So, the Department of Education, as you noted, will continue — will
monitor this law upon implementation to evaluate whether it violates
federal civil rights law.  And obviously, we will come back to you as we
have more information on that.   
  
Thank you all very much.  Appreciate it.   
  
3:51 P.M. EDT
