---
tags: press-briefings
date: '2022-03-25'
modified_time: 2022-03-25 13:26:14-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2022/03/25/press-gaggle-by-principal-deputy-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-and-national-security-advisor-jake-sullivan-en-route-rzeszow-poland/
published_time: 2022-03-25 13:25:57-04:00
title: "Press Gaggle by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre and National\
  \ Security Advisor Jake\_Sullivan"
---
 
Aboard Air Force One  
En Route Rzeszów, Poland

1:23 P.M. CET

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Hello.

MR. SULLIVAN:  Hey, guys.  Hello.  How are you?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Hello.  We have Jake Sullivan here.  He’s going to
talk a little bit about the President’s trip to Poland and our
announcement today — our energy announcement — and then also take some
Q&A.  And then I’ll follow up with any other questions you might have. 

Go ahead, Jake.

MR. SULLIVAN:  Thanks.  So, of course, you guys heard from the President
and President von der Leyen earlier today on a new U.S.-EU energy
framework that accomplishes two basic purposes: one, to help the EU
reduce its dependence on Russian gas; and then two, to help it reduce
its dependence on gas overall.  And as part of that, we’re committing to
make available up to 15 billion cubic meters additional LNG this year
through a variety of different means. 

And then the Europeans will be working on building out their
infrastructure to be able to accept up to 50 billion cubic meters —
between now and 2030, per year — additional LNG flows from the United
States. 

The basic notion here is that while we’re making this clean energy
transition and putting in place all of the tools and infrastructure
necessary to have an economy powered by clean and renewable energy,
while gas is still a substantial part of the energy mix, we want to make
sure that the Europeans do not have to source that gas from Russia. 

And so, we’ll get to work immediately on that in 2022, and then we’ll
build year by year between now and 2030, even as we make the
far-reaching investments necessary for the clean energy transition. 

There’ll be a joint task force established between the White House and
the presidency of the European Commission to implement this basic
approach. 

And then, of course, they also spoke about an agreement on an updated
framework for transatlantic data flows to ensure data privacy and
security, and to protect those flows which form the foundation of a $7.1
trillion economic relationship between the U.S. and the EU. 

And this agreement in principle that was reached today really puts us in
a position to ensure that American technology firms — big firms, yes,
but especially small- and medium-sized firms — will be protected as we
go forward and can fully and safely operate within the context of the
U.S.-EU economic — transatlantic economic relationship.

So that’s what we did this morning. 

Now, we’re off to Rzeszów, Poland.

Q    Rzeszów.

MR. SULLIVAN:  Say it again.

Q    Rzeszów.  I just spent three weeks there.  (Laughter.)

MR. SULLIVAN:  Rzeszów, Poland — thank you — where the President will
have the opportunity to meet with his Administrator of the USAID,
Samantha Power, and a range of different humanitarian experts and
leaders who will give him a briefing on the humanitarian assistance
efforts both into and around Ukraine. 

Yesterday, the President announced that the United States is committed
to provide an additional billion dollars in humanitarian assistance to
help the people of Ukraine — those who are still inside the country and
those who have been displaced by the conflict.  And he will be able to
talk through with a range of different humanitarian leaders and experts,
both from the region and from the international community, as well as
the U.S. government experts who are playing a key role in this — how the
efforts are going so far and what further steps need to be taken to make
sure that we’re investing those dollars as wisely as possible.

He will also have the chance to visit with troops from the 82nd Airborne
Division, who have been deployed to Poland to reassure our NATO Ally and
to deter further aggression on the eastern flank.  And he will also get
a briefing from the commanders of those units who will have the chance
to lay out for him the various tasks and missions that the American
troops stationed at the airfield here have been undertaking and continue
to undertake.

We have 10,500 troops in Poland as part of 100,000 strong U.S. force
contingent across the continent as a whole.  And a significant number of
those forces here in Poland were FLOT forward — brigade combat team,
tactical aviation, a Stryker unit — to ensure that we have robust
deterrence and assurance in the face of Russian aggression and to
fulfill the President’s commitment that we’ll defend every inch of NATO
territory. 

We’ll go on from Rzeszów to Warsaw.  And tomorrow, the President will
meet with President Duda of Poland.  He will also have the opportunity
to meet with Ukrainian refugees and with American humanitarians who are
there trying to help feed and respond to the material needs of the
refugee population in Warsaw. 

And he will give a major address tomorrow that will speak to the stakes
of this moment, the urgency of the challenge that lies ahead, what the
conflict in Ukraine means for the world, and why it is so important that
the free world sustain unity and resolve in the face of Russian
aggression.  He’ll also talk about the context and history of this
conflict and where he sees it going from here. 

So that will be a significant speech that he delivers tomorrow
afternoon, before we get on the plane to come home. 

And I think that covers the waterfront for now, although I reserve the
right to revise and extend my remarks as necessary.  (Laughter.)

Q    Jake, President Zelenskyy said he thinks Russia wants to invade
other Eastern European countries.  Is that an assessment that the
administration shares — that other countries in Eastern Europe are at
risk?

MR. SULLIVAN:  So we do believe that Russian aggression in Ukraine shows
a willingness by the Russians to disregard international borders and to
disregard the basic rules of the road of the international community
that have been built and sustained over the course of seven decades.

So the President has been very explicit that part of the reason he’s
sent forces forward to the Baltic states, to Poland, to Romania and he’s
supported the setup of these four battle groups in the southern
countries of NATO’s eastern flank is because it is important in this
moment to send a clear message to Russia that the United States and NATO
will defend every inch of NATO territory, and to deter any thinking that
Putin might have about further Russian aggression into NATO.

In addition, the fact that Russian forces have mobilized in Belarus and
that Belarus has changed its constitution to allow for more flexibility
of the stationing of Russian troops and capabilities on its soil, that
too has a significant impact, particularly on our NATO Allies in the
Baltics and in Poland.

And so the combination of Russia’s brutal war in Ukraine and the change
in the physical military relationship between Russia and Belarus does
mean, from the President’s perspective, that the United States and NATO
need to show strength and resolve in terms of the forces and
capabilities postured along the eastern flank.

And you will see that in living color at this stop today.

Q    Jake, President Biden, at the press conference yesterday, said that
if Russia uses chemical weapons in Ukraine, the United States and NATO
will respond in kind, which would seem to imply using chemical weapons
back.  Is that what he meant by “in kind”?  Or what was he trying to say
there?

MS. SULLIVAN:  No.  No.  And you heard him in another answer say we’ll
respond accordingly — meaning, you know, we will select the form and
nature of our response based on the nature of the action Russia takes,
and we’ll do so in coordination with our Allies.  And we’ve communicated
to the Russians, as the President said publicly a couple of weeks ago,
that there will be a severe price if Russia uses chemical weapons.

And I won’t go beyond that other than to say the United States has no
intention of using chemical weapons, period, under any circumstances.

Q    And just briefly following —

Q    Following up on that — on nuclear weapons: With Russia threatening
to use nuclear weapons, does the President consider that a red line? 
And how would the U.S. respond?

MR. SULLIVAN:  So, again, I will just say, with respect to any use of
weapons of mass destruction — nuclear, chemical, biological — Russia
would pay a severe price for the use of those weapons, as the President
has previously said.  We have spoken to our Allies.  We have done
contingency planning within our own government.  And we have
communicated directly to the Russians.  And I’m not going to speak
further to it here.

Q    On off-ramp for Putin here, was there a consensus — a consensus of
what that may look like, what strategies to get him there?  Anything you
can say about those particular discussions?

MR. SULLIVAN:  From my perspective, “off-ramp” is the wrong concept —
because, of course, this was a war Putin chose to wage; it’s a war Putin
could choose to stop.  At any moment, he could pull his forces back, he
could end the bombardment of cities and civilians.

Now, there is a diplomatic process underway.  That process is being
conducted directly between the Ukrainians and the Russians.  And you
have some communication between European allies, like France and
Germany, as well as partners like Israel, directly with the Russians. 

The United States is not directly participating in those negotiations,
but we’re staying in close contact with our Ukrainian counterparts and
with those other countries that are talking to both sides.

The President was very clear yesterday that, ultimately, any diplomatic
agreement is one that Ukraine itself will have to determine for itself,
and the United States is not going to push or pressure Ukraine into any
particular outcome.

The last thing I would say is that, from our perspective, our role right
now is to ensure that as long as Putin keeps pushing forward, that
Ukraine has tools and capabilities to be able to effectively defend
itself.  That’s where our focus is.

Q    Jake, on the liquid natural gas, on the 15 billion cubic centimeter
— or cubic meters, excuse me — that are supposed to go this year, how
much of that supply is already secured or needs to be secured?  And how
much of that would be coming from the U.S. versus other countries?

MR. SULLIVAN:  So, first, I’m not sure exactly what you mean by “already
secured” versus “needs to be secured,” because this will play out over
the course of the year.  So there haven’t been contracts signed for
every one of those, if that’s what you mean by “secured.”

But we believe that we’ve identified the sources to be able to hit that
target.  And it’s a combination of what the U.S. can do directly.  For
example, on March 16th, we approved the expansion of the number of
countries that could receive gas from some of our terminals, number
one. 

Number two, we have already, over the course of the past couple of
months, effectively engaged in a cargo diversion strategy to move cargo
that’s destined for other countries to go to Europe.  And we will be
able to continue that over the course of the year.

And then, number three, the President himself has personally engaged
with some other gas suppliers, including Qatar, who have been able to
step up.

So, when you put all of those pieces together, we feel quite confident
that we’ll hit our mark.

Q    And then, on the G20, really quickly.  On the G20 —

Q    Jake, (inaudible) what your response would be?  To Ashley’s
question, you said you didn’t want to say what the response would be. 
It would — you know, you’d respond.  But was there a consensus among
allies at the meetings this week as to what the response would be just
among yourselves?  Did you guys decide what that would be if Russia used
chemical and biological weapons?

MR. SULLIVAN:  So, I would say this was a important topic of
conversation at the summit, and it continues at working levels in the
military, on the diplomatic side, and among the presidents’ and prime
ministers’ offices.  We are working through contingency planning for a
range of different scenarios.

It is difficult to give precision to these kinds of hypotheticals
because, of course, the form of use, the location of use, the context of
use all have a bearing on the specificity of the response.

But in broad terms, I believe that there is convergence around the
fundamental nature of how the Alliance would respond to these issues.

Q    And just a response to the latest statement from Ukraine that the
bombing of the theater in Mariupol killed hundreds of civilians.

MR. SULLIVAN:  We all have a very deeply human response to what happened
in the bombing of that theater, which is just absolute shock and horror,
particularly given the fact that it was so clearly a civilian target
that the Russians were striking and that they did so with such brazen
disregard for the lives of innocent people. 

In terms of a more formal response or analysis of the specific number,
we’ve just seen that statement, and we’re in touch with Ukrainians, but
I don’t have anything further to add.

Q    Jake, in the past, you guys have said that, you know, a cyberattack
on border countries from Russia — NATO Allies would have to figure out
if that counts — if that invokes Article 5.  Was there discussion of
that yesterday?  And was there any sort of decision made on that front?

MR. SULLIVAN:  There has been no invocation of Article 5 at this point. 
You know, if a country suffers a cyberattack and calls for a collective
response from the Alliance — and I hasten to note: The invocation of
Article 5 and the application of a collective response doesn’t
necessarily have to be a military response; it could take a number of
forms, including helping that country remediate the problem, helping
them build resilience against ongoing attacks, or taking a variety of
cost-imposition measures against the attacker. 

But ultimately, it comes down to the country under attack, probably
first invoking Article 4 — consultations to discuss the collective
response — and then making a determination as to whether to invoke
Article 5, to ask the Alliance to come together to respond as one.  That
has not happened yet. 

Q    President Biden said yesterday that Putin should be kicked out of
the G20 — or Russia, more specifically.  What efforts are underway to
make that a reality?  Is that possible?

And there was also mention that their economy, based on the sanctions,
are now below that threshold anyway.  So, what is the implication of
that determination on their G20 status?

MR. SULLIVAN:  Well, the President very clearly expressed his view that,
you know, Russia should not be a member in good standing of the G20,
given what they’ve done.  He also noted that Indonesia, as the chair,
may have a different view.  And he offered an alternative, which was
having Ukraine be able to participate in the G20 meetings this year. 

So, we will be discussing with the other G20 members, including
Indonesia.  And the President was clear in his remarks that we want to
be respectful of the views of the chair in terms of how to think about
us going forward.  So we’ll be talking to them.  We’ll be talking to
other partners. 

And I’ll just leave it at what the President said yesterday, which I
thought was quite clear, straightforward, and, frankly, logical: that at
this moment in time, it just can’t be business as usual with Russia in
the G20. 

Q    On China, what — on China, what was agreed to among the Allies
about, like, what the message should be to them and how you’re going to
coordinate that?  And what’s the administration’s view at this moment of
how — of whether they’re leaning toward aiding the Russians at this
point?  Or have they — are you seeing signs that they’re backing away
from doing so?

MR. SULLIVAN:  So, I would refer you — I rarely get to just cite
paragraphs in NATO communiqués, but I would refer you to paragraph eight
in the NATO statement out yesterday.  And I do so because it was an
unusual — an unusually direct statement, message to China from the
Alliance, stating what the Allies agreed in the room, which is,
collectively, we’re going to speak with one voice in saying to China
that they should not provide military or other forms of assistance to
Russia in the prosecution of its brutal war in Ukraine.  And all of the
Allies agreed to carry that message individually, as well as speaking
collectively on it. 

The President also had the opportunity to coordinate with both President
Michel and President von der Leyen of the European Union in advance of
their April 1st summit, and to talk to the 27 at the EU on this topic. 
And there was broad agreement about sending that very clear message to
Beijing about the implications and consequences of such support.  I
think we’re all on the same page, and you’ll see that play out.

On the question of what we’re seeing: It remains true today what I told
you two days ago, which is that since the President’s call with Xi
Jinping, since my meeting with Yang Jiechi in Rome, we have not seen the
Chinese move forward with the provision of military equipment to
Russia.  But it’s something we continue to watch every day. 

Q    Jake, back on chemical weapons briefly: I’m not asking for a
specific, but throughout this invasion, the U.S. has been very clear
that we would not want to — or that you guys would not want to take
steps that would be viewed as a direct escalation or confrontation with
Russia.  If Russia were to use chemical weapons, would that general view
and philosophy change?  Would the U.S. be more willing to get into a
direct military confrontation with Russia?

MR. SULLIVAN:  I think that is an excellent effort at getting me to say
something substantially different on this question than I’ve said so
far. 

But, really, the key point here is that we’ve had the opportunity to
speak directly to the Russians about the use of chemical weapons — the
potential use of chemical weapons.  We’ve had the opportunity to
coordinate with our Allies.  We’ve had the opportunity to get organized
internally.  We’ve been clear publicly that Russia would pay a severe
price.  And beyond that, I’m not going to speak further to the issue. 

It is something that, right after the conflict began, I personally
tasked the stand-up of a new tiger team that would look at a range of
contingencies — this being a prominent one of those contingencies. 

And so, we feel like we have made considerable efforts to put ourselves
in a position to respond effectively.  But I’m not going to preview the
nature of that response.

Q    A question about the escalation of responses.  When — you know, is
the administration concerned that they’re running out of sanctions that
they could put on Russia that would still have a significant impact? 
You know, the U.S. has already done so much in the way of sanctions. 
Are there other ways to go up the escalatory ladder besides military
conflict that the U.S. still has? 

Q    And actually, to follow up on that, is there any concern that these
sanctions and these tough measures could have the opposite intended —
intention and backfire, and cause the population to actually, you know,
get behind Putin if they feel that they’re being put upon by the U.S.
and the EU and NATO?

MR. SULLIVAN:  Certainly the Russian leadership is going to aggressively
make the case to their public that, you know, the poor, innocent
government of Russia has just been economically attacked by the West,
and they will use their very considerable propaganda machine to push
that line. 

But at the end of the day, the Russian people are going to ask the more
fundamental question of why this happened and how this happened.  And we
believe that, at the end of the day, they will be able to connect the
dots.  And the same will be true up and down the Russian government:
that this is — these are costs that President Putin has brought on
himself and his country and his economy and his defense industrial base
because of his completely unjustified and unprovoked decision to go to
war in Ukraine. 

And we do think the sanctions will increasingly have the effect of
pressuring and constraining the Russian economy, the Russian war machine
in ways that will shape their thinking as they go forward.  And that
will undermine their capacity to play an aggressive role in the world,
as they have done over the course of the past many years. 

In terms of additional steps that we can take, we believe that, of
course, there are additional measures to tighten the screws on
sanctions, and we will be constantly reviewing those.

This point about enforcement, though, I think is really central. 
Because in the period ahead, Russia’s main focus, from an economic
perspective, is going to be to figure out how they can get around, over,
or under the sanctions that have been imposed.  And blocking off those
pathways is going to be vital to producing the kinds of cost-imposition
effects and vital to shaping the thinking in the Kremlin.  So that’s
really going to be our focus in the near term. 

But, yes, we believe that we still retain the capacity to impose
additional costs on Russia that are not strictly military costs.

Q    Can you speak to the timing of the North Korean missile launch? 
The President obviously was here overseas making the case.  Any evidence
to suggest the timing was not coincidental?

MR. SULLIVAN:  You know, we —

Q    (Inaudible) believe otherwise?

MR. SULLIVAN:  We took the somewhat unusual step of putting out a
statement several days ago from the Biden administration describing
these two earlier tests — I believe one was on February 28th, and the
other was on March 4th, although I might have those dates slightly off —
as being testing the capabilities of an ICBM, which North Korea itself
did not advertise but our intelligence community determined and then we
declassified that information. 

In that statement, we warned that there would be more ICBM tests, and
that’s what happened here. 

We see this as part of a pattern of testing and provocation from North
Korea that is — has played out over the course of the past months and
will continue to play out.  We think there is likely more in store, and
we don’t see any particular indication that this test went on this day
for this reason. 

Indeed, some of what is, you know, maybe driving the tempo of the
testing relates to the badly failed tests that occurred just a few days
ago.  But most of the decision-making on their nuclear and testing
program occurs within the context of the Korean Peninsula and the North
Korean view of its security situation, not what’s happening with
President Biden’s travel schedule.

Q    Jake on the Iran deal, now that it seems to be on its back, what
can the U.S. do and what will the U.S. do to make sure that Iran doesn’t
get a nuclear weapon and to get Russia on board with that program? 

MR. SULLIVAN:  Well, I wouldn’t accept the characterization “on its
back.”  I would say that we have made substantial progress in resolving
a significant number of the issues that would be necessary for us to
come back into the deal on a compliance-for-compliance basis.  There
still are issues left.  There still is work to be done.  But we are
still seeking a diplomatic outcome here that puts Iran’s nuclear program
back in a box. 

Of course, if diplomacy doesn’t succeed, then we will work very closely
with our international partners to increase the pressure on Iran. 

And I would just point out that the difference between the Biden
administration’s approach on Iran policy and the previous
administration’s approach on Iran policy is that we do have the capacity
to marshal and muster the support of key allies, particularly in Europe,
that were divided from the United States on the Iran issue throughout
the previous administration.

Q    On the sanctions, you spoke about the importance of enforcing
them.  How much are secondary sanctions going to play into that?  And, I
guess, is the administration preparing to issue secondary sanctions on
third parties who might be violating the ones already in place?

MR. SULLIVAN:  So we have a number of tools to ensure compliance, and
one of those tools is the designation of individuals or entities in
third-party jurisdictions who are not complying with U.S. sanctions or
who are undertaking

systematic efforts to weaken or evade them.  And those tools are, at
this point, well understood by companies and countries around the
world.  And we won’t — you know, we’re prepared to use them if it
becomes necessary to do so. 

Q    Do you expect the peacekeeping proposal to be part of the
discussions with President Duda?  And after yesterday’s discussions, is
there any openness to it from the President’s side?

MR. SULLIVAN:  There was not any kind of detailed discussion of that
proposal yesterday.  I don’t know, candidly, whether President Duda will
raise it.  If he does, the President will listen to him.  But we still
are seeking to understand greater details about what exactly they have
in mind, because we don’t have great clarity on that.  And until we get
those details, there’s not much more I can add.

Q    What’s going on with the jets?  What’s the update with the jets? 
Are the jets coming?  Is there a plan for the jets?  Is that plan dead
in the water?  Was that part of negotiations this week — getting jets
into Ukraine in some form?

MR. SULLIVAN:  I’ve got no update on the jets for you today.  Nothing
has fundamentally changed from our perspective since I think maybe you
or one of the rest of you asked that question two days ago.  I’ll leave
it at that for now. 

Q    Any update on the anti-air systems like the S-300?

MR. SULLIVAN:  Only that the United States is working actively with
allies in Europe and partners even further afield to get sophisticated
anti-air capabilities to the Ukrainians.

I’m not going to speak about specific countries or specific systems
because that work is underway and, of course, I want to protect the
efficiency and effectiveness of that work to actually get those systems
where they need to be.

Q    Speaking of President Zelenskyy’s demands, he made some specific
demands for tanks, for anti-ship missiles.  What was your official
answer to him?

MR. SULLIVAN:  So, we are in conversation with the Ukrainians and with
our allies about coastal defense and anti- ship capabilities that we
could provide.  There are some operational complexities associated with
that, but that is a vector, an area where we are trying to make rapid
progress.

The — we heard his request for tanks, among other things. He has not —
the Ukrainians have not yet specifically come to the United State, as
far as I understand, on the tanks issue; they’ve gone to some other
countries.

So, you know, we’ll stay in consultation with them on all of these
different kinds of systems and try to make a determination about what we
can source, what’s going to be effective, and what the cost-benefit
analysis of the supply of any given system is.

Q    Some of these weapons are supplied overland through NATO
countries.  Is the administration concerned that Russia would try to
bomb these convoys before they enter Ukraine — in a NATO country? 

MR. SULLIVAN:  We are doing contingency planning for the possibility
that Russia chooses to strike NATO territory in that context or in any
other context.  And the President has been about as clear as one can be
about his absolute determination to respond decisively alongside the
other members of our Alliance if Russia attacks NATO.

Q    Jake, can you share any behind-the-scenes color, details of what
the President is doing, how he is preparing for the address you
mentioned on Saturday, even what he’s eating? Just anything a little
inter- — like a little —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  (Inaudible.)

Q    Yeah.  But, I mean, interesting color.  This has all been
fascinating, but specifically in a color way.

MR. SULLIVAN:  I’m so bad at that because I, like, only — they — I get
out of my hermetically sealed container to execute on the policy issues
and then get back in, and I’m not sure what people eat or drink.

Q    But, like, has he been writing out the speech long?

MR. SULLIVAN:  No, so — so, let’s see.  I mean, look, first, I would
just say President Biden — and you can see this; you could see it in the
press conference yesterday — he just believes passionately in NATO, in
the transatlantic relationship. 

At the end of his remarks yesterday to the European Union, after some
back-and-forth, he gave just a — there’s no other word for it than
impassioned statement about the depth of his personal conviction for the
transatlantic alliance and the transatlantic community, and the — both
its past, its present, and its future.

And so I would say he sleeps way less on these kinds of trips than maybe
other trips because he’s just going, going, going — like, wants to talk
to the next leader; you know, take the next briefing. 

And also, we’ve been covering this incredibly broad range of stuff. 
Right?  So he was monitoring the negotiations on closing out Privacy
Shield at the same time that he was working through the details of how
many billion cubic meters we’re committing this year, at the same time
as we’re talking about coastal defense capabilities to Ukraine, at the
same time that we’re dealing with food security and wheat prices.

So, on this trip, it’s been a kind of remarkable mix of having a bunch
of subject-matter experts further up in the cabin here doing, like,
speed dating with the President on, you know, every topic under the
sun. 

And I don’t mean to, like, denigrate the substance of it by calling it
“speed dating,” but you get the — you get the image — like, working
through all these different things.  And he — think he’s probably taken
every meal he’s eaten so far here over a briefing.  Right?  Like, he’s
not sitting alone eating; he’s eating while someone is going through
some element of this trip with him.

So that’s the best I can do for color today.  (Laughter.) But I will try
to improve upon it in the future.  How about that?  Okay.

Q    (Inaudible) a lot of political issues.  You know, the President’s
approval ratings have taken a dive.  There’s challenge with preserving
democracy at home.  Is the administration concerned that some of these
things are undermining his ability to work with allies on these issues
and, you know, marshaling support if people are concerned about the
political backing that he has domestically?

MR. SULLIVAN:  You know, it’s interesting: We have not seen that at
all.  And, of course, I would say that in any event, but I actually
really mean it today.  (Laughter.)

They’re just — this — the fact that the President a week ago could say,
“Let’s get the 30 Allies together.  Let me go sit with the 27 leaders of
the European Union.  Let’s get the G7, including Prime Minister Kishida
coming over from Tokyo.  Let’s all get in one set of rooms on one day
and have this out, and have everyone there energized, listening first
and foremost to the President, and then rallying together” — the story
of the unity on this throughout has been a story of the President’s
personal leadership, of American leadership, and of the deep credibility
that he has with these leaders.  And that has been, from my perspective,
unqualified. 

I would just make one comment that the President said yesterday that I
think is really important for you all to think about as we go forward,
which is: Part of the reason that he decided that we needed to do this
is because, the early weeks, unity can be carried forward by momentum
and inertia and adrenaline, but this could go on for quite some time. 
And to sustain that unity as costs rise, as the tragedy unfolds, that’s
hard work.  And the President wanted to get everyone together to say,
“We’ve got to do that work.” 

So I’m not saying that the unity has been built and it’ll just be there
for good.  But the rate limiter on that unity is not anything to do with
the President’s, you know, domestic circumstances.  The rate limiter is
just: This is a tough situation, and it takes an American President
coming over to really try to drive this forward to keep the ball rolling
and keep us all very tightly aligned and united.

So, I’ll —

Q    (Inaudible) on oil prices.

Q    Jake, I think you may need to run.

MR. SULLIVAN:  Last question.

Q    The last.  There was a strate- — a lot of coordination among allies
on oil — strategic releases, things like that.  Did those ideas come
back up again?  And should we expect some action on that?

MR. SULLIVAN:  Yes, they came back up.  They came back up in
particularly the G7 meeting.  That was a major topic of conversation. 
The question of what tools we have at our disposal to deal with global
oil prices.

And without getting ahead of the administration, we are looking at
various actions we could take.  And I’ll leave it at that for now.  But
this was not just about talking, it was about thinking about the steps
we can take in the period ahead.  But I will not steal the thunder of
the administration on that issue.

So, thank you, guys.  Appreciate (inaudible).

     MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Wow.  That was great.  All right, guys, hold on. 
It’s getting super bumpy.

     Q   We’re landing in about five minutes.

     MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, we’re at time?  Okay.  Oh, okay.  All right. 
Well —

Q    I’m out of questions.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Duncan, you’re out of questions?

     Q    Can we just ask you something just about the ceasefire in
Ethiopia and how —

     MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I just don’t have anything for you on that.  I’m
happy to check with the team, but I don’t have anything specifically on
the ceasefire in Ethiopia.  Clearly, that’s something that we’re
monitoring.

     All right.

     Q    Thank you.

     MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  Thanks, guys.  See you on the ground.

     1:58 P.M. CET
