---
tags: press-briefings
date: '2022-03-08'
modified_time: 2022-03-08 14:43:45-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2022/03/08/background-press-call-on-announcement-of-u-s-ban-on-imports-of-russian-oil-liquefied-natural-gas-and-coal/
published_time: 2022-03-08 14:30:00-05:00
title: "Background Press Call by a Senior Administration Official on Announcement\
  \ of U.S. Ban on Imports of Russian Oil, Liquefied Natural Gas, and\_Coal"
---
 
Via Teleconference

12:52 P.M. EST

MODERATOR:  So thanks, everyone, for joining on short notice.  So this
is a background press call on the President’s announcement earlier today
on the steps we’re taking to hold Russia accountable. 

This call is on background, attributable to a “senior administration
official,” and embargoed until the call concludes.  For your awareness
and not for reporting, the speaker on this call is \[senior
administration official\]. 

So, with that, I’m going to turn it over to \[senior administration
official\] for some quick remarks, and then we can take some questions.

\[Senior administration official\], over to you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Okay, thanks, \[senior administration
official\].  Hi, everybody.  I’ll make a few comments and happy to take
your questions afterwards. 

America is united in its resolve to stand up to Putin.  And there’s
broad support across the country for degrading the strength of Putin’s
economy and war machine through energy exports.

Today, President Biden signed an executive order to ban the import of
Russian oil, liquefied natural gas, and coal to the United States.  This
is a significant action with widespread bipartisan support that will
further deprive President Putin of the economic resources he uses to
fund his needless war of choice.

Let me give you some details on the mechanics, our consultation with
allies, and also the domestic implications.

First, in terms of mechanics: Our ban blocks any new purchases of
Russian crude oil and certain petroleum products, liquefied natural gas,
and coal, and winds downs the deliveries of existing purchases that have
already been contracted for.  It also bans new U.S. investment in
Russia’s energy sector, which will ensure that American companies and
American investors are not underwriting Putin’s efforts to expand energy
production inside of Russia.

And finally, Americans will be prohibited from participating in foreign
investments that flow into Russia’s energy sector. 

Second, in taking this action, we consulted with European allies
closely, but we do not expect them and did not ask them to join us.  The
United States is able to take this step because of our strong domestic
energy production and infrastructure.  And we recognize that not all of
our Allies and partners are currently in a position to join us.

And specifically, let me maybe add two points of detail on this point. 
First in 2021, Russian oil was just under 10 percent of our overall
imports of oil but a third of Europe’s imports. 

As of last year, Europe imports more than six times more oil from Russia
than we do — about four and a half million barrels for Europe versus
seven hundred thousand barrels of oil for the U.S. per day. 

Second, the U.S. produces far more oil domestically than any of our
allies.  In fact, we’re a net exporter, the leading oil and gas producer
in the world.  And we produced more oil and gas in the first year of
President Biden’s term than in his predecessor’s first year.

Third, in terms of domestic impact, the reality is Putin’s unprovoked
and brutal war has led to higher energy prices and raised costs for
Americans at home — about 75 cents at the gas pump — since Putin began
to amass troops at the Ukrainian border in early November. 

Under President Biden’s leadership, the U.S. will continue to mitigate
the pain American families feel at the pump and reduce our dependence on
foreign oil and fossil fuels.  And let me make three points in this
regard.

First, the administration has already committed to releasing more than
90 million barrels from our Strategic Petroleum Reserve this fiscal
year.  This is the result of intensive, around-the-clock coordination
and consultation by President Biden.  And it led to IEA member countries
agreeing to a collective release of an initial 60 million barrels of
crude oil from our Strategic Petroleum Reserves, with the U.S.
committing about half of that emergency sale.

We also remain in active conversations with a range of energy producers
and energy consumers on further steps we can take to ensure a global
supply — a stable global supply of energy. 

Second, U.S. oil and gas production is approaching record highs while
thousands of drilling permits on federal lands go unused.  So federal
policies are not limiting the production of oil and gas.  To the
contrary, the Biden administration has been clear that in the short
term, supply must keep up with demand at home and around the world while
we make the shift to a secure clean energy future.

We are one of the world’s largest producers with a strong domestic oil
and gas industry.  Natural gas production in the U.S. has never been
higher, and crude oil production is expected to hit a new record high
next year.

As major energy company leaders have themselves said, they have the
resources and the incentives they need to further increase production in
the U.S. 

Third, in the long run, the way to avoid high gas prices is to speed up,
not slow down, our transition to a clean energy future.  The reality is
we can’t drill our way out of dependence on a global commodity that’s
controlled, in part, by foreign nations and their leaders, including
Putin.  The only way to eliminate Putin’s and every other producing
country’s ability to use oil as an economic weapon is to reduce our
dependency on oil. 

So even as President Biden does everything in his power in the short
term to make sure we can readily access the oil — readily access oil and
gas, we need to protect American consumers and allied countries,
including through greater U.S. domestic production. 

This crisis reinforces our resolve to make America truly energy
independent, which means reducing our dependence on fossil fuels. 

Last point I’ll make: You know, this announcement builds on
unprecedented economic costs the U.S. and our allies and partners have
imposed on Russia. 

Just to remind everyone: As a result of our historic coordination,
Russia has become a global economic and financial pariah.  Over 30
counties, representing well over half the world’s economy have announced
sanctions that impose immediate and debilitating economic costs on
Russia, cut off its access to high tech, and sap its growth — growth
potential and weaken its military for years to come.

You all have seen the Russian ruble is now worth much less than a penny;
it’s hit an all-time low after losing well over half its value since
Putin announced his further invasion of Ukraine.

By isolating Russia’s Central Bank from the global financial system,
we’ve disarmed his war chest of foreign reserves and he can do very
little to slow the freefall of his currency.

By blocking transactions with and freezing the assets of his largest
banks, we’ve shut down Putin’s ability to do business with the world.

And the U.S. and governments all over the world are going after Putin’s
assets and those of his cronies and their families by identifying where
they are and freezing them in our respective jurisdictions.  And that
includes their yachts and luxury apartments and money and other
ill-gotten gains.

Let me stop there.  And I’d be happy to take your questions.

MODERATOR:  Great.  Thanks, \[senior administration official\].  So, if
you have a question, please raise your hand, and then I will just call
on folks that way.

So I think let’s just go ahead and start with Andrea Shalal from
Reuters, please.

Q    Thank you so much, \[senior administration official\], for doing
this.  U.S. — does this affect — take effect immediately?  And you — you
mentioned about, you know, the sort of blocking new purchases, but
winding down deliveries that are already contracted.  When — you know,
how much

volume is there in terms of what’s are already contracted?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah.  Hi, Andrea.  So, the ban is
immediate.  We block any new purchases of Russian energy.  And we do
allow, though, for wind downs of deliveries for existing purchases that
were already contracted for.  So that means, just to be clear with you,
there are no new contracts that will be allowed.  And for existing
contracts, we are allowing a 45-day wind-down period.  And I would refer
you to the — to the Treasury Department for exactly how that will get
executed.

MODERATOR:  Great.  Let’s go to Jennifer Jacobs from Bloomberg, please.

Q    Thanks, \[senior administration official\].  On Venezuela, do the
plans to license imports to Venezuelan oil, does that replace — could
that replace the lost Russian barrels?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, so I don’t have — I don’t have
anything to say with you about Venezuela.  Sorry, can you can you hear
me?  Hello?

MODERATOR:  Yeah, we can hear you, \[senior administration official\].

(The call experiences technical difficulties.)

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  I can hear you.  Yeah, sorry.  I don’t
know — I think I might have gotten cut off.

Jennifer, the question was on Venezuela, right?  I think it was on
Venezuela.

So, let me just say on that — on that trip that you’re referring to that
was intended to discuss a range of issues, including the health and the
welfare of detained U.S. citizens. 

And those meetings are ongoing, so I’m not going to — I’m not going to
share any more detail at this point.

MODERATOR:  All right.  Let’s do Tom Franck from CNBC, please.

Q    Hi, \[senior administration official\].  I wanted to ask: CEA Chair
Cecilia Rouse talked about this earlier in the week that any U.S. ban
would be introduced in a way that would minimize disruption to global
markets and minimize upward pressure on inflation.  I’m just wondering
if the White House has any estimates on how this ban could impact
headline CPI, you know, over the next year or so.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, I’ll step back on this one and
just say, you know, the President, he has said many times now that
dictators need to pay a price for their aggression or they’ll just cause
more chaos and increase costs and threats for America and people all
over the world. 

So that’s — that’s why he’s decided to stand up to Putin’s aggression. 
And he has told the truth that this is not going to be painless for
Americans.

I’m not going to give you a specific estimate on what will happen to gas
prices.  But let me — let me say the reason energy prices are rising
right now is because of Putin’s choices and this needless war, and the
risk that he could escalate further.

Of course, in addition to our resolve to hold him accountable, prices at
the pump — at the gas pump are now up about 75 cents since Putin started
to amass troops at Ukraine’s border.  The price of Brent crude oil is up
about $50 a barrel as well since that time.

So what we’re seeing now is a result of fears of Putin’s ongoing
aggression escalating and the consequences of his actions. 

But we think this is a time for American resolve.  There will be costs
for standing up to Putin, but we’re doing all we can to mitigate those
costs.

MODERATOR:  Great.  Let’s do Sean Sullivan from the Washington Post,
please.

Q    Thanks very much.  Just to follow up on that, I know you said you
didn’t want to go into what specific projections might be for where gas
prices might be.  But is that because the White House does not know or
has not projected what this could mean for gas prices in the coming
months, or that you just don’t want to share that?

And as a related question, how confident is the White House at this
point that Americans will be willing over time to accept whatever
increases result in gas prices at the pump as a result of this decision?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, I can share — you know, I’ll
share some of the thinking.  So, first thing to point out is that we’re
not a major importer of Russian oil; it’s about 700,000 barrels a day. 
And remember that we’re a major producer of crude oil, usually — usually
occupying the top spot.  There are certain months where we’re number
two, but we are a leading producer of crude oil, and we can produce much
more.  The leases are in place; the permits are available. 

So, actually, it’s a time for oil and gas companies to work with Wall
Street to unleash our productive capacity.  Price signals are giving
every incentive that producers need to invest in America’s energy
security, our energy reliability, our energy sustainability.  And that
will cut our vulnerability to tyrants like Putin that influence global
oil prices and gas prices at home.  So it’s time to end that influence. 
And I can assure you our allies and partners around the world fully
agree with us. 

But this action alone, I want to emphasize once more: We are we are not
a major importer of Russian oil, but we are a major producer of energy
at home.

MODERATOR:  Thanks.  Let’s go to — sorry, I’m trying to make sure that I
get the most range.  Let’s do James Politi from the Financial Times,
please.

Q    Hi, thank you so much.  Just a quick question.  Would the U.S.
support imposing secondary sanctions on Russian oil and energy products
even though the Europeans haven’t kind of gone along with the initial
ban?

And can you — we saw that the UK came out in support of the — of a
winddown, basically, of their Russian oil purchases.  Have you been
discussing this with Japan as well?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Hi, James.  We’ve been discussing this
action extensively with all of our partners, and not just those in
Europe, but also our G7 partners and partners and allies beyond the G7. 

And what’s clear not just from those conversations, but from
conversations over a longer period of time, is that countries are in
different circumstances.  And the United States is particularly capable
of taking this action given the level of imports from Russia, in energy,
and the amount of production of energy at home. 

Not all countries are in the same circumstance, and we recognize that. 
They’re going to have to make their own evaluation.  I haven’t seen
specifically what the UK has done.  I know they’ve announced something
in this area, but I have not seen the specifics, James. 

But I expect that as countries do their analysis and as they consider
their options, we’ll hear from them. 

But again, we are in a — we know that we are in very different
circumstances than most of our allies and partners across the world.

MODERATOR:  And, sorry, James, can you repeat your first question? 
\[Senior administration official\], I don’t know if you answered that
one. 

Q    I just had a quick question on secondary sanctions.  I saw on the
factsheet that the U.S. is banning Americans from basically doing
anything to finance investments in the Russian energy sector. 

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Oh, I see.  Okay.  Yeah.  I mean, I was
answering your question on secondary sanctions by saying, you know, we
recognize other countries are in different circumstances. 

But with respect to the provision that you’re mentioning, James, this is
the clause that essentially says Americans are going to be prohibited
from participating in foreign investments that flow into Russia’s energy
sector.  There’s a foreign consortium that’s putting money into Russia’s
energy sector.  Americans cannot participate in that consortium. 

Does that make sense?

Q    Yeah, that makes sense.  I know they’re two slightly separate
issues, but that clarifies it.  Thank you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah.  So it’s — not only can Americans
not invest directly in Russia’s energy sector, they also can’t
participate in foreign investments that are going into Russia’s energy
sector.

MODERATOR:  Great.  Thanks.  Let’s do — I think we have time for
probably a couple more.  So can we do Ed Lawrence from Fox News, please?

Q    Oh, yeah.  Thank you.  Thanks for doing this.  Just a quick
clarification. 

So you were saying that the best way to get oil prices and gas prices
down globally is to speed up the transition to clean energy.  So are you
saying that Americans should expect to deal with higher gas prices for —
you know, until 2030, when we get off — when the administration is
looking at that net zero?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Oh, not at all.  There’s a transition. 
And to make that transition as orderly as possible, we need to continue
to work with major energy consumers around the world to consider
releasing reserves to ensure stable energy supplies.  We need to
continue working with major energy producers across the world that have
spare capacity to produce more.  And we need our domestic oil and gas
industry to use their leases, use their permits, use financing from Wall
Street to respond to price signals and continue increasing their
production. 

This is a time for Wall Street to step up, for oil and gas companies to
step up and invest in America’s energy future. 

Q    Just quickly, as a follow: Is there a timeline, then, you’re
looking at for when Americans can see gas prices come back down based on
all the things the administration is doing now?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Well, that — I can’t give you a
prediction because much of what you’re seeing in energy markets right
now is the result of Putin’s aggression and his brutal war.  And I can’t
get into his mind and give you a prediction on what he’ll do next, but
we’re ready for anything. 

MODERATOR:  Great.  And I think we have time for one more, so let’s do
Aurelia from AFP, please. 

Q    Hi.  Thank you so much for doing this.  I have two related
questions.  You said the United States did not ask Europeans to take
this step.  Are there European countries that asked you not to — not to
take this step?

And maybe a broader question.  Looking forward, as you say, all
countries have different circumstances.  So do you expect it to become
more difficult for all allies to find common ground for the next
sanctions, the next steps?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, no, I would say there is still
remarkable — I mean, I don’t think it’s an overstatement to say historic
unity across the world, in terms of our willingness and our resolve to
impose the most severe set of economic costs that have ever been imposed
on a country as large as Russia.

If you did — I think, actually, it was Bloomberg that added up the
number of sanctions that have been imposed on Russia.  And if you look
at the breadth and the number, it’s remarkable how unified the whole
world is to stand up to what Putin is doing. 

So that’s the sentiment.  That’s the — that’s the type of discussion
that’s been taking place in general and specifically with regard to the
step we’re announcing today.

And I don’t want to speak for other countries.  They’re going to have —
you know, they’re all evaluating their circumstances with different
tools and different authorities.  We’re all imposing the most severe
costs on Russia and the most severe financial sanctions that have ever
been imposed in economic history. 

MODERATOR:  Great.  All right.  Well, I’m going to let \[senior
administration official\] go.  And thanks, everyone, for joining on
short notice.  If we did not get to your question, please reach out to
Vedant and I, and we will make sure to get back to you.  And thanks
again for your time.

As reminder, this call was on background, so if you joined late:
background, senior administration official.  And the embargo has now
lifted.

Thanks, everyone.

1:13 P.M. EST
