---
tags: press-briefings
date: '2022-03-24'
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2022/03/24/background-press-call-on-president-bidens-meetings-with-the-g7-and-the-european-council/
published_time: 2022-03-24 11:38:54-04:00
title: "Background Press Call on President\_Biden\u2019s Meetings with the G7 and\
  \ the European\_Council"
---
 
 Via Teleconference

12:08 P.M. CET

MODERATOR:  For the second section, which is embargoed until 2:15 p.m.
Central European Time/9:15 a.m. Eastern time, I’ll turn it over to you
\[senior administration official\] to get us started.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks, \[senior administration
official\].  And let me follow up from \[senior administration
official\] and just preview some of the G7 discussions, in particular
the actions we have planned on sanctions.

So, today the U.S. will sanction Russian elites, the Duma, and over 300
Duma members, and over 40 Russian defense companies.  All of this will
align and strengthen our sanctions in close coordination and partnership
with the EU and G7.  
  
     The G7 and EU will also announce a new sanctions evasion initiative
that’s designed to prevent circumvention or backfilling of our
unprecedented measures.  And that will happen through closing down
avenues, for example, for the Russian Central Bank to prop up the
ruble.  It could be through growing our coalition of countries to deny
cutting-edge technology to Russia, or through preventing Russia from
designating crony banks to do it business abroad.

In all cases, we’ll use this initiative to share information and
coordinate our responses to prevent the emergence of any safe haven for
Russia, whether it’s in China or any other country.

Third, the G7 and the EU will also continue to blunt the Central Bank of
Russia’s ability to deploy international reserves by making clear that
any transaction involving gold related to the Central Bank of Russia is
prohibited.

And for context: As of June of last year — the last official snapshot of
Russia’s Central Bank reserves — gold was 20 percent of the total.  And
our purpose now is to fully disarm its war chest by making sure its
foreign reserves serve no purpose in propping up the Russian currency.

And finally, we and the G7 will join together in saying that
international organizations and multilateral fora should no longer
conduct their activities with Russia in a business-as-usual manner. 

Our purpose here is to methodically remove the benefits and privileges
Russia once enjoyed as a participant in the international economic
order.  And this follows our actions to remove Russia’s
most-favored-nation trading status and to suspend its borrowing
privileges from the IMF and the World Bank. 

     You all have the factsheet, so I won’t get into all the detail on
the specifics, but let me just step back and put all these actions into
context.

All of you will remember that well before Putin invaded Ukraine, we
warned that he would face the most severe sanctions ever levied on
Russia and ever imposed on a large market economy.  We also warned that
we would respond to an invasion with unprecedented speed and with a
historic degree of coordination.

Over the past month, we’ve done exactly what we said we’d do.  Judging
from the words and actions of the Russian leadership, this caught the
Kremlin by surprise.  Putin himself said these sanctions are delivering
a profound blow; they’re causing “unprecedented” pressure, in his own
words.  And yesterday, Minister Lavrov said no one could have predicted
the actions we’d take.  But the reality is these are precisely the
consequences we’ve signaled.

And the consequence is that Russia is now looking at a contraction in
its economy of 15 percent this year, according to private sector
estimates.  To put that into perspective, that would be three times as
much as the GDP declined after Russia’s debt default in 1998.  The
Institute for International Finance estimates that the shock to Russia’s
GDP this year will wipe out the past 15 years of economic gains. 

Meanwhile, the OECD projects that inflation will spike to 15 percent
this year in Russia.  More than 400 private sector companies have
already quit Russia.  And independent observers estimate that over
200,000 people emigrated from Russia just in the past month alone, as
the brain drain accelerates. 

Set against the backdrop of export controls that deny cutting-edge
technology and its removal from international supply chains, Russia will
soon face an acute shortage of ideas, talent, and technology to compete
in the 21st century.  And Putin will be left with a strategic failure of
his own making.

Let me turn it now to \[senior administration official\].  Sorry, I
guess I’ll take Q&A before turning it to \[senior administration
official\] on refugees, if that’s all right, \[moderator\].

MODERATOR:  Absolutely.  We’ll open it up for a couple of questions for
\[senior administration official\].  If you can please indicate you have
a question by raising your hand on the Zoom.

     We’ll start with James Politi from the Financial Times.

Q    Hi there.  Thanks.  I was wondering if you could talk a bit more
about energy and the sort of joint strategy that we expect to be
announced tomorrow, if possible.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Hi, James.  Yeah, you know, I actually
would rather — or not — I’d rather not get ahead of that announcement. 
It’s premature to go into detail, but I guess I’ll just let you know
it’s something we’ve been working on for some time, and I think it’s
going to be a meaningful step forward in terms of accelerating Europe’s
diversification away from Russian gas and our collective phasing out of
gas, both in the U.S. and Europe.  So, please stay tuned on that front.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  And for our next question, we’ll go to Daniel
Bush from Newsweek.

Q    Hi, sorry about that.  Thank you.  I wonder if you could just step
back a little bit.  We’re seeing these sanctions having a huge impact on
the economy, as you pointed out in all these different ways.  What
impact do you see it having on Putin’s ability in the short and medium
term to continue carrying out the war on the ground in Ukraine,
especially if Russia is continuing to get revenue from oil and gas
exports?  Thanks.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah.  Well, you know, first of all, in
oil and gas exports, if you look at Russia’s oil receipts, they are
down.  Estimates from the private sector suggest that roughly two to two
and a half million barrels of Russian oil are no longer making it to
their intended destination.

But, you know, look, if you consider the aggregate impact of these
sanctions, what we’re doing is really depleting President Putin of the
resources that he needs to conduct this war.  He’s looking, as I
mentioned, at a contraction in his economy; you know, some people
estimate 10 percent, others 15 percent, other people say more.  That is
three times larger than the contraction Russia faced after it defaulted
in 1998.  Russia used to be the 11th largest economy in the world before
its invasion. 

If you consider the depreciation of the ruble already and the projected
shrinking of its economy, it’s now looking at an economy half of the
size that it was before this invasion.  So it would fall out of the top
20 economies by ranking.

At the same time, we’re cutting off all of the sources of potential
growth in Russia, whether it’s cutting-edge technology, or whether it’s
access to supply chains from the West, or human capital.  You know,
people are leaving Russia by the droves, especially the best and
brightest.

All of this will inhibit his ability to continue to execute a military
operation and to have sources of growth outside of oil and gas.

Now, we can’t predict exactly when or how this will change Putin’s
calculus.  But what we can ensure is that this is going to be a failure;
he’s going to emerge weaker, and we’re going to emerge stronger.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thank you.  And next we’ll turn to
Tamara Keith from NPR.

Q    Hi.  Unmute.  So sorry.  I just wanted to clarify whether all of
these sanctions are being done in conjunction with Allies or whether
this is the U.S. moving on its own, and just the — just the sanctions
evasion part is done — being done in coordination today.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Hi, Tamara.  So, the sanctions on
individuals — as I mentioned, we’re sanctioning 300-plus members of the
Duma, a handful of financial elites and oligarchs.  Many of those
measures are aligning the U.S. sanctions with those of the EU or G7
partners.  And they’re also taking steps to align with our measures. 
So, that’s — that’s an effort at strengthening our coordinated action.

The other measures I mentioned are being taken by the G7-EU as a whole. 
So the sanctions evasion initiative is something that you’ll see in the
G7 statement.  You’ll also see language in the G7 statement about
prohibiting any transactions with Russia’s Central Banking goal.

And we’re also going to say together in the G7 statement that it’s not —
it cannot be business as usual anymore for international organizations
or multilateral fora.

So, the overall message here is: We have taken historic steps in
imposing costs on Russia.  Now let’s make sure we’re fully aligned and
we’re getting the maximal impact from the measures that we’ve
implemented.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  And next we’ll go to Phil Mattingly from CNN.

Q    Hi, guys.  Thanks for doing this.  Hey, \[senior administration
official\], on the sanctions evasion piece of it that you’re working
with on the G7 — I guess, to start, can you give some examples of, over
the course of the last four weeks, places where you’ve seen gaps or seen
areas that could be exploited that will be closed by what you’re doing
right now?  
  
     And I guess, more broadly, conceptually, how have you approached
putting the sanctions evasion piece together?  Is it purely through what
you’ve seen in asset flows or what you’ve seen in gaps, or is there kind
of a broader methodology to it?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Hi, Phil.  Yeah, I’ll give you a couple
of examples — and, actually, one of them is gold.  So we’ve heard market
chatter that Russia is still using — trying to use its gold reserves to
prop up the ruble — so, selling its gold in order to buy ruble.   
  
     It still has a considerable amount of gold; estimates are that it’s
somewhere between $100 billion to $140 billion in market value.  We
don’t know for sure because the last snapshot of Russia’s Central Bank
reserves was from last June.  And so that’s roughly 20 percent of the
total reserves that Russia held prior to the invasion.  
  
     We want to shut down any ability for Russia to use its gold to
support its currency.  And we need to do that as a G7 for it to be
effective.  And so that’s an example of working together to prevent any
circumvention of our sanctions measures.   
  
     Another is on export controls, Phil.  So, as you know, we have
collectively denied the inputs for foundational technologies to Russia,
whether it’s semiconductors or artificial intelligence or quantum or
hypersonic flight.   
  
     And we, in the West and the EU, produce and design many of these
inputs, but so do our partners in Asia.  And we just need — we want to
make sure that for any of these technologies, including technologies
that may be produced in China or designed in China, that we’re shutting
down avenues for Russia to benefit from continued transactions with
those countries too.

MODERATOR:  Great.  And next we’ll turn it over to \[senior
administration official\] to do an overview of our refugees
announcement, followed by \[senior administration official\] to do a
preview of the European Council meeting, after which we’ll open it up
for more Q&A.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Great.  Thank you.  And good morning,
everyone.  We’re happy today to share that the United States is
announcing that we will welcome up to 100,000 Ukrainians and others
fleeing Russia’s aggression.   
  
     To meet this commitment, we are considering the full range of legal
pathways to the United States.  So that includes the U.S. Refugee
Admissions Program, parole, and immigrant and non-immigrant visas.   
  
     We’re going to have more details to share on this program in the
days and weeks to come.  But I would note today that we’re working, in
particular, to expand and develop new programs with a focus on welcoming
Ukrainians who have family members in the United States.  And I think
we’ve all heard from many in the diaspora that they are eager to welcome
their Ukrainian family members into their homes in the United States as
quickly as possible.   
  
     We’re also committed to protecting the most vulnerable among the
refugee populations that have already fled, and that includes LGBTQI+
individuals, those with medical needs, third-country nationals who have
already sought refuge outside of the — in Ukraine — excuse me —
journalists, dissidents, and others who have specific
vulnerabilities.   
  
     And we’re, of course, coordinating our effort closely with our
European allies and partners who are on the frontlines of this refugee
crisis.   
  
     We still expect most displaced Ukrainian citizens will want to stay
in neighboring countries or elsewhere in the EU where they may have
family and where there are already large diaspora communities in the
hope that they can return home soon.   
  
     But at the same time, we recognize that some number of Ukrainians
who have fled may wish to come to the United States temporarily,
especially those with family in the U.S.   
  
     By opening our country to these individuals, we will help relieve
some of the pressure on the European host countries that are currently
shouldering so much of the responsibilities for what is the largest
refugee crisis in Europe since the Second World War.  
  
     We commend our European allies and partners for keeping their
borders open to those that are seeking international protection.  And as
\[senior administration official\] noted, we are particularly grateful
to Ukraine’s neighboring countries, including Poland, Romania, Slovakia,
Moldova, and Hungary, who have opened their doors and set up welcome
centers for the nearly 3.5 million who have fled Ukraine to date.   
  
     The United States is and will continue to be a global leader in
international humanitarian — in international humanitarian response. 
And we are asserting humanitarian assistance to provide immediate
support for those on the ground in Ukraine and for those who are fleeing
Ukraine and dealing with the catastrophic humanitarian consequences that
Moscow and Moscow alone is responsible for.   
  
     And with that, I’ll turn it over to \[senior administration
official\] to preview this afternoon’s EC meetings and our announcements
on new humanitarian assistance. 

\[Senior administration official\], over to you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  So, thanks for that, \[senior
administration official\].  And, yes, just to round out the day, you
know, I think this is a banner day of multilateral meetings, starting
here at NATO, moving to the G7, and then we will be driving across town
for meetings with the EU. 

The President, this afternoon, will be joining the European Council
meeting.  That is a fairly regular gathering that the 27 EU heads of
state and government have.

You may remember that, almost a year ago to the day, the President
joined a meeting of the European Council.  This was very early in the
administration.  He joined it virtually.  And this will be the first
time in the administration that the President will have sat down with
all 27 of the EU heads of state and government in person.   
  
     Obviously, some of those countries — many of those countries, in
fact — are here at the NATO summit.  But there’s also an opportunity for
him to engage with a number of other countries who are in the EU but not
at NATO.

The President will be greeted by Charles Michel, who is the President of
the European Council.  And then they will have a short bilateral meeting
at the top.  And then President Michel will escort President Biden into
the meeting where he will be then meeting with the 27 EU leaders.   
  
     They will then continue on after the President leaves for their own
previously scheduled meeting later this afternoon and dinner and then
probably much of the day tomorrow.   
  
     But we really felt that, in addition to the NATO meeting, it was
important for the President to have the opportunity to engage directly
with his EU counterparts as well.   
  
     One of the main things I think they will discuss is sanctions. 
\[Senior administration official\] obviously did the broad laydown of
sanctions, including new measures that we are looking at today.  And so,
in addition to the coordination that we’ve had with the G7, I think it’s
important to underscore the very close cooperation that we have had with
the European Union generally over the last year.  
  
     In terms of our approach to sanctions, our aim has always been to
work in lockstep with the EU to the extent possible.  But I think,
particularly over the last month, we have tried to be as closely
coordinated with the EU as we could, both in the development and the
rollout of our sanctions packages.  So this will be a good opportunity
for the President to talk directly with EU leaders about that.   
  
     Second, I think the leaders will have a significant conversation
about the refugee crisis as well as the humanitarian assistance that we
are all providing.  
  
     Obviously, a very clear recognition by the President that a number
of these eastern flank countries, including Poland, Romania, Slovakia,
Hungary, as well as some non-EU members, including Moldova, are very
much on the frontlines of this.  And so I think the President will
welcome the opportunity to hear from a number of these countries that
are facing these immediate flows of refugees, as well as to hear from a
range of EU countries that are taking in a number of refugees.   
  
     Those of you that were covering St. Patrick’s Day last week will
have heard the President talk with the Irish Taoiseach about the 7,000
refugees, for example, that Ireland has taken in, which is an example of
how various EU member states are stepping up to deal with the
humanitarian assistance piece.

Third, and related more broadly to the Eastern Partnership, which is
what the EU calls these countries on their eastern side — the Caucasus,
Moldova, Belarus, Ukraine — the leaders are expected to discuss
democratic resilience: the need to continue to bolster the ability of
these countries to stand strong in the face of some of these autocratic
pressures; to underscore the democratic developments that are happening
in a lot of their countries; and to ensure that we are working together
with the EU to support their resilience, especially at this particular
moment.

     And finally, I would expect that the leaders will have some
discussion of energy security along the broad lines of the G7 talks that
\[senior administration official\] outlined, as well as food security. 
Food security is an increasing concern for the EU, similar to what it is
at the United States.

     So, coming out of the President’s meeting with the European
Council, we are anticipating the announcement of a number of
deliverables and new announcements.  So, let me run through what those
are now, as they are related specifically to the conversation that the
President is going to be having with his EU counterparts.

     First, we’re prepared to provide more than $1 billion in new
funding towards humanitarian assistance for those affected by Russia’s
war in Ukraine and its severe impacts around the world.  So, this
funding will be additional to money that we have already provided, and
will provide food, shelter, clean water, medical supplies, and other
forms of assistance.  
  
     Second, a new commitment to defend global food security.  Russia’s
war of aggression threatens to disrupt the supply of critical
agricultural commodities from the Black Sea region, which jeopardizes
global food security, particularly for vulnerable populations in the
Middle East and Africa. 

Ukraine, known globally for its wheat production, for being a “bread
basket” for the world, obviously is very much hindered in its ability to
do that during this harvest season given the fact that you have Russian
tanks rolling across Ukrainian fields and you have Ukrainian farmers who
have taken up arms to defend their country.

But the United States, through the Feed the Future initiative and our
nutrition commitments, will be providing over $11 billion over the next
five years to address food security threats and malnutrition across the
globe.  And this includes programming in many of the countries that are
vulnerable to increases in food and fertilizer prices.  
  
     The third thing to highlight is that today we will be launching a
European Democratic Resilience Initiative.  This initiative will be
launched with $320 million in funding.  The aim of this initiative is to
defend human rights, to strengthen democratic and anti-corruption
institutions, to support media freedom, and to increase accountability
for human rights abuses and violations of international law.  
  
     And as I mentioned, there will be a particular focus of these
efforts on these countries neighboring the European Union who are
currently vulnerable in this space.

So, an important component of this will be support for efforts to
document and preserve evidence of potential war crimes being committed
in Ukraine.  The United States is already supporting several such
initiatives.  And as I mentioned, this will be an opportunity for the
President to talk with EU counterparts about ways in which we can
collaborate with the EU on these efforts. 

Some new lines of efforts, including the establishment of a conflict
observatory, will gather information that can be shared with a range of
accountability efforts at the national and international level to hold
Russia accountable for its actions.  
  
     So, \[moderator\], let me stop there.

MODERATOR:  Great.  Thank you.  And now we’ll open it up for Q&A for
\[senior administration official\] or \[senior administration
official\].  If folks could please raise your hand using the Zoom
function. 

And we’ll get started with Michael Shear from the New York Times. 

Q    Hey, guys.  Question, I guess, for \[senior administration
official\] about the 100,000 refugees.  As you know, obviously the
President said, I think last September, that the cap for refugees — for
the refugee program for the entire world would be 125,000.  Very few of
those have actually come in.  Is the 100,000 going to be part of that
125?  Is this an additional 100,000?  And do you have to go to Congress
to consult for that, or can those just simply come in through the IRAP
program?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, thank you for the question.  So,
a couple of things on this. 

One, not everyone that comes in under this program would come in as a
refugee.  Like I mentioned, people could come in as refugees under — or
under humanitarian parole, or using immigrant or non-immigrant visas. 
So, there’s multiple pathways there.  And obviously, only those that
came in as refugees would be counted against that ceiling of 125,000.

I’ll also note that the ceiling of 125,000 is for fiscal year 2022.  And
this commitment of 100,000 is not necessarily timebound to that fiscal
year; it’s a broader commitment. 

But I will say that, you know, we have still a significant capacity
within the 125,000, so we don’t currently envision the need to go beyond
that in terms of the portion of the individuals that would come in as
refugees during this fiscal year.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thank you.  Next we’ll go to Geoff
Earle with the Daily Mail.

Q    Hey, guys.  Thanks.  This is a little bit circling back to earlier
in the call, but I was wondering if with President Zelenskyy or some of
the other leaders, if there’s been any discussion of prospects for a
negotiated settlement.  Because I know a lot of the military aid is —
you know, one aim is to try to force the Russians back to the table. 
And so, is this, you know, realistic? 

And also, Zelenskyy keeps talking about reparations.  Is there going to
be an effort to acquire, you know, this impounded money from Russia to
go toward that?  Thank you.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks very much for that question. 
And I don’t have anything new on this beyond what we have talked about
in the past, which obviously is continued support for the Ukrainians in
their effort and, most importantly, to get the Russians to agree to a
ceasefire, especially considering the very dire humanitarian situation
that we’re seeing in a number of parts of Ukraine.   
  
     So far, we have not seen a serious readiness on the part of Russia,
certainly, to engage in a ceasefire or even necessarily to engage in
serious conversations.   
  
     Certainly, if we get to that point, we can look at a broad range of
scenarios.  But for right now, the focus very much remains on getting to
a ceasefire so we can support the people that are suffering.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  Next we’ll go to David Sanger with the New York
Times.

David, if you’re there, please unmute.

Q    Sorry about that.  Can you hear me now?  Okay.  My question is for
\[senior administration official\], and the question has to do with the
European Democratic Resilience plan.   
  
     \[Senior administration official\], is this the kind of plan that
the President had in mind when he was first talking about autocracy
versus democracy?  Or is this specifically tailored to the Russian
invasion and so forth?  I’m trying to figure out the degree to which you
think you have new threats to democracy in the region because of this
versus what you faced before?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks, David, for that question.  So
this European Democratic Resilience Initiative is something new that we
are standing up to try and provide additional support to countries in
the region. 

I think our approach to the Ukraine crisis more broadly, as I said at
the top, has been multifaceted, both in terms of imposing economic costs
on Russia, supporting the people of Ukraine, defending the security of
the NATO Alliance.  And I think you could add a fourth line of effort to
that that’s been implicit in what we’ve done, as well as in what the EU
has done, which is to take steps to bolster the resilience of countries
in the neighboring region.  This is something that I heard a number of
leaders mention in passing in the NATO interventions earlier today. 

The EU and the United States, they’re obviously very concerned about the
situation in Moldova, in terms of refugees.  And a strong desire to
ensure that we are doing everything possible to bolster the resilience
of those countries as well — the ones that are not in NATO or the EU but
that are, in EU parlance, part of their Eastern Partnership Program and
on the eastern part of the European flank.   
  
     So we’ve already done a lot with Moldova in terms of Secretary
Blinken and others making visits there, with a very strong focus on what
we can do on the humanitarian assistance side.   
  
     The United States has long worked on democratic programs in all of
these countries, frankly.  The EU also has programs in all of these
countries as part of the Eastern Partnership Program.   
  
     But I think — and then, you know, to take your question more
broadly: As you rightly said, the President has been, for his entire
administration, very focused on these broader questions of democracy and
autocracy as well.  And it’s very much played out in the President’s
Democracy Summit where we had participation from countries like Moldova
and Georgia, among others.  It very much ties into what we are trying to
do in this democracy “year of action” coming out of the Democracy
Summit.    
  
     But this specific program that we are launching today is targeted
at the countries within this region, with a very specific desire to try
and shore up their democratic institutions, their anti-corruption
institutions; to support media freedom; as well as accountability for
human rights abuses.   
  
     And part of this is based on the theory that one of the best things
we can do for all of these countries and to increase the resilience and
security of these countries, as well as our own countries, quite
frankly, as the President has talked about, is to ensure that we’re
doing everything we can to shore up the democratic resilience, the good
governance, and the rule of law measures there.   
  
     And then, as I mentioned, there is also an increasing focus on the
potential for war crimes in Ukraine and wanting to ensure that we are
doing everything we can to be supporting the collection of information
there so that that can be fed into broader accountability mechanisms.
MODERATOR:  Great, thank you so much.  And with that, those are all the
questions we have time for, so we have to wrap.   
  
     As a reminder of the ground rules, this call was conducted on
background, attributable to a senior — to three “senior administration
officials.”  And as a reminder, the second portion of the call is
embargoed until 2:15 p.m. local time or 9:15 a.m. Eastern time.  Thank
you very much.  
  
12:39 P.M. CET
