---
tags: press-briefings
date: '2022-03-15'
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2022/03/15/background-press-call-by-senior-administration-officials-on-covid-response-and-funding-needs/
published_time: 2022-03-15 12:56:27-04:00
title: "Background Press Call by Senior Administration Officials on COVID Response\
  \ and Funding\_Needs"
---
 
Via Teleconference

10:36 A.M. EDT  
  
     MR. MUNOZ:  Hey, everybody.  Thanks you for joining us — Happy
Tuesday — for this press call today.  We are going to outline the
consequences that a lack of COVID-19 response funding will have on the
United States if Congress fails to act.  
  
     The call and the accompanying factsheet that you all just received
before this will be on background, attributable to “senior
administration officials,” and embargoed until 11:30 a.m. Eastern.  
  
     On today’s call, we have \[senior administration officials\].  
  
     With that, I will kick it to \[senior administration official\] for
some opening remarks.  
  
     SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks, Kevin.  Good morning,
everyone.  Thanks for joining us.  
  
Today, we want to cover the consequences of a lack of additional funding
for the nation’s COVID response.  
  
I’ll discuss the near-term impacts, and then I’ll turn to \[senior
administration official\] to discuss the impacts on our longer-term
preparedness.  
  
First, I want to step back and provide some context on how we view this
moment in the pandemic.  
  
Over the past 14 months, the country has made critical investments,
using resources that Congress provided on a bipartisan basis, to make
sure the American people have access to free and widely available tools:
vaccines, boosters, treatments, tests, and high-quality masks.  
  
As a result, the U.S. has made tremendous progress: Cases are down 95
percent since the peak of Omicron.  Hospitalizations are down 85
percent.  Over 215 million Americans are fully vaccinated, and over 95
million Americans have received a booster shot.  
  
But as the President said in the State of the Union, we still have more
work to do.  
  
Our scientific and medical experts have been clear that in the next
couple of months we could see COVID cases increase here in the U.S.,
just as we’re seeing cases rising abroad right now.  
  
That’s why we remain laser-focused on fighting COVID and preparing for
the future.  
  
The President has laid out a comprehensive National COVID-19
Preparedness Plan to continue the progress we’ve made and to ensure we
keep the country moving forward safely.  
  
We asked for immediate funding needed to start to implement that plan.  
  
In fact, for months, we’ve made clear to Congress, on a bipartisan
basis, that the funding for tests, treatments, and vaccines was drying
up and that additional funds would be needed.  
  
In January, we notified the Hill that funding would be needed after the
Omicron surge.  In February, we briefed appropriators and authorizers
about the status of funds and the consequences if there were no
additional funds.  
  
We sent a formal request of $22.5 billion to the Hill, again being clear
of what we could not do without more funding.  
  
The President called for additional funding in his State of the Union
address; outlined in a 96-page plan, made clear that more funding is
needed.   
  
And our team has held more than two dozen calls and meetings with
members of Congress about this emergency funding request.   
  
We have been clear: We hoped Congress would provide these resources, as
lawmakers have done multiple times on a bipartisan basis under the prior
administration.  
  
Further inaction will set us back; leave us unprepared — less prepared;
and cost us more lives.  
  
We need Congress to provide the $22.5 billion in emergency immediate
funding.  
  
Now, let me walk through some of the immediate consequences of a lack of
funding.  
  
First, on vaccines: Without additional funding, we do not have the
adequate resources to purchase enough booster shots for all Americans if
an additional shot is needed.  
  
Keep in mind, when Congress passed the supplemental bill in December of
2020 and the American Rescue Plan, the mRNA vaccines were envisioned as
a two-shot vaccine.  We’ve now administered nearly 100 million booster
shots, and four shots are now recommended and available for
immunocompromised people.  
  
To ensure enough fourth doses for all Americans or a variant-specific
vaccine should we ever need them, we must have funding in hand.  
  
Vaccines are our most effective tool.  We cannot be caught without the
ability to move quickly to get more of the most effective vaccines
available as soon as we are able.  
  
Next, on treatments: To date, we have shipped over 7 million courses of
treatments to the American people.  And in many cases, we have sent
federal medical personnel to states to help administer those
treatments.  When Omicron hit, the federal government stepped in to ramp
up delivery of the last remaining treatment that worked.  
  
These efforts have saved lives in every state in the country.  
  
We have planned — we had planned to purchase additional monoclonals as
soon as next week.  Without additional funding, we are cancelling those
plans.  And as we will make clear to governors later this morning, we
also need to cut the number of monoclonal antibody treatments we send to
states by 30 percent starting next week.  
  
Even with these cuts, we anticipate that our supply of monoclonal
antibody treatments will run out as soon as late May.  
  
Next, on the preventative treatments for immunocompromised Americans: We
have purchased 1.7 million doses of AstraZeneca’s Evusheld — all that
they could produce to date.  
  
AstraZeneca recently told us that they will be — they will have
additional supply that will be available for delivery starting in
September.  These are doses we had planned to purchase as soon as the
end of March.  
  
Without more funding, the federal government will now be forced to scale
back on that purchase.  So, we’ll likely run out of treatments for our
most vulnerable Americans by the end of the year, if not sooner.  
  
The bottom line on treatments is this: Without additional funding soon,
thousands of patients could lose access to treatments, and these
companies will have little incentive to continue investing in the
development and manufacturing of these treatments.  
  
Next, on the uninsured fund: <s>The Office of Management and
Budget</s> \[The Administration\] notified Congress in February that
this fund that reimburses doctors and other medical providers for caring
for uninsured individuals was running out of money and would have to
stop taking new claims in March.  
  
Unfortunately, we’re now having to take that action.  
  
HHS will begin to scale back this program starting next week and end it
completely in early April.  
  
This means doctors, nurses, pharmacists, labs, and other healthcare
providers will no longer be reimbursed for tests, treatments, and
vaccinations for people without health insurance.  
  
And finally, in addition to all of these impacts to our domestic
response, the lack of funding greatly impacts our global response.  
  
Without more funding, USAID and our interagency partners will have to
cut short efforts to turn vaccines into vaccinations around the world.  
  
In fact, the administration won’t be able to extend surge support to
over 20 additional under-vaccinated countries that will need intensive
support this year to get shots in arms.  
  
This will devastate our ability to ensure these countries can
effectively deploy safe and effective vaccines.  And leaving large
unvaccinated populations worldwide will increase the risk of new deadly
emerging — of variants emerging that could evade our current vaccines
and treatments.   
  
Without additional funding, USAID will also be unable to provide
lifesaving supplies, tests, therapeutics, oxygen, and other humanitarian
aid to countries still struggling to manage a continued COVID disease
burden.  
  
Now, I’ll turn it over to \[senior administration official\] to discuss
some of the long-term preparedness efforts at risk.  \[Senior
administration official\]?  
  
One second.  
  
\[Senior administration official\], can you unmute?  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  \[Senior administration official\], do
you have me now?  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  I got you.  Go for it.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Oh, my goodness.  Okay, sorry about
that.  
  
All right.  So, thanks, \[senior administration official\].  Thanks,
everybody.  Let me also start with vaccines.  
  
Without additional support from Congress, NIH and BARDA will lack the
funding needed to accelerate research and development of next-generation
vaccines that provide broader and more durable protection, including a
vaccine that protects against a range of variants.  
  
We’ll face a similar challenge on treatments.  The current antivirals
require multiple pills over several days.  We think it’s possible to get
treatment courses down to one or two pills, but that requires additional
research and funding.  
  
And when a new vaccine or treatment becomes available, it’s important
for us to have the funding to secure enough doses for the American
people.  
  
Over the past 14 months, we’ve put the massive purchasing power of the
federal government to use, making sure America is first in line for
promising treatments.  
  
That’s the reason we’ve been able to secure more Pfizer antiviral pills
than anyone else in the world.  These pills cut the risk of
hospitalization and death by 90 percent.  
  
Without additional funding, we lack the resources needed to get behind
promising new treatments, meaning less supply available to the American
people.  
  
So the failure to invest in the research and the advanced purchase of
lifesaving treatments and new vaccines now will leave the nation
vulnerable in the face of a new variant or a new surge.  
  
Finally, on testing: We have significantly increased our testing
capacity in this country through targeted federal investments.  
  
Without additional funding, we do not have the ability to maintain our
domestic testing capacity beyond June.  
  
So, after spending the last year building up our testing capacity,
Congress now risks squandering that capacity heading into the second
half of this year.   
  
And because it takes months of ramp-up to rebuild capacity, failure to
invest now will leave us less prepared for any potential future surges. 
So providing funding only when cases rise is far too late to make a
difference.  
  
Bottom line: We need funding now so we’re prepared for whatever comes
next.  
  
With that, back over to you, \[senior administration official\].  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks, \[senior administration
official\].  Let me just close with a few thoughts here.  
  
We have been clear-eyed and we are clear-eyed moving forward about how
unpredictable this virus has been and can be moving forward.  
  
Omicron was the most contagious variant we’ve ever seen.  It led to an
unprecedented increase in cases.  But because we had the resources, we
were able to surge support to Americans that needed it.  
  
We sent tests to homes, masks to pharmacies, over 2,500 federal
personnel to states, more treatments to providers.  We kept our
businesses open and almost all of our kids learning in person.   
  
That was because we had resources at our disposal to act and to act
quickly.   
  
We have a plan to keep it that way, but we need the resources to execute
that plan.   
  
The failure to provide additional resources soon will have severe
consequences in the near term, as I’ve outlined: fewer monoclonal
antibodies treatments, fewer tests, fewer treatments for the
immunocompromised, and a risk of running short on vaccines.  
  
We want to be clear: Waiting to provide funding until we’re in a worse
spot with the virus will be too late.  
  
Importantly, when you consider the cost of all these investments
compared to the cost of what we will prevent — in terms of
hospitalizations, deaths, and damage to our healthcare system and our
economy — it is not a close call.  
  
With that. let’s open up for questions.   
  
MR. MUNOZ:  Thanks.  We have time for a few questions.  First, let’s go
to Josh Wingrove at Bloomberg.   
  
Q    Hi there.  Thank you.  Can you tell us a little bit more about the
monoclonal order in terms of the scale?  Like how many were you planning
to order?  If you don’t order it now, do you lose your spot in line? 
And, you know, if new funding came in the following weeks, would you
still be able to place that order?  
  
And, more broadly, you mentioned, on fourth shots — can you specify:
Right now, you think you have enough for immunocompromised people that
are currently eligible, but without new funding, you might not have
enough in the event that the broader population would need a fourth shot
or be given the option to get a fourth shot?   
  
Thank you.   
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks, Josh.  I’ll start, and maybe,
\[senior administration official\], you can add.  
  
On your first question on monoclonals, the purchase was likely to be in
the hundreds of thousands of more doses.  We had planned to place that
order next week on March 25th.   
  
I can’t say whether those — you’d have to ask the company whether those
would be available to us if we purchased at a later date.  That was the
plan.  And as we know, these are — these are treatments that are highly
sought after not just in this country but in other countries.   
  
And so, we have to end that purchase and we have to reduce the
allocations to our states by 30 percent but that we’re stretching out
the supply as long as we possibly can.   
  
On the fourth shot, we have enough now for immunocompromised individuals
who need to seek a fourth shot.  What we don’t have the funding for is
if all Americans were needed to get an additional dose, we would need
additional funding from Congress.   
  
And importantly, Josh, I would add that if we need a variant-specific
testing, which heretofore we have been lucky enough not to need, but we
want to be ready for that.  And if we need a new vaccine, we have — our
gap in resources is even more severe if we need a variant-specific
vaccine.   
  
{Senior administration official}, anything you would add?  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Sure, \[senior administration
official\].  Thank you.  I think you said it exactly right.   
  
The other thing I would just add is we have to make these purchases now
so the product is available in the coming months.  It requires several
months for some of the manufacturing to take place.  So, to secure our
place in line, we have to make the purchases now to bring these doses
forward in the coming weeks to months.   
  
MR. MUNOZ:  Thanks.  Next question.  Let’s go to Jeremy Diamond at
CNN.   
  
Q    Hey, thanks very much for doing this.  Just searching for some more
concrete numbers on the testing front.  What are we at now in terms of
tests per month?  And how would that number be impacted after June?  
  
And then secondly, if there were to be a game-changing variant spreading
wildly in the U.S., you know, say, tomorrow, is the U.S. prepared for
that?  
  
And after which point in time would we not be prepared without
additional funding?  
  
Thanks.   
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks, Jeremy.  It’s a good
question.   
  
On tests per month, we’re in the hundreds of millions of tests per month
now.  That’s because of the investments over the last 14 months in
getting to that point.   
  
We don’t know, after June, if we can maintain the domestic manufacturing
capabilities that we have today.  In fact, we were told by the domestic
test manufacturers that they cannot.  We’ve made investments to get us
to June.  We need additional funding from Congress to not lose the gains
that we’ve made over the last 14 months in the domestic testing
manufacturing.   
  
So, it’s vitally important that we continue that manufacturing so we
don’t lose everything that we’ve done in over-the-counter testing in the
last year.   
  
On variants, look, what I can say, Jeremy, is we will — we are well less
prepared without additional funding than we would be otherwise.  We laid
out an entire plan in 96 pages of detail for how we want to be prepared
moving forward and to be prepared.  We were clear in that plan, we were
clear in the State of the Union, and we’ve been clear with Congress for
the past few months that we need additional funding to do that.   
  
MR. MUNOZ:  Let’s go to Rachel Roubein at the Washington Post.   
  
Q    Hi, thanks for taking my question.  I was wondering: Have you guys
had any conversations in the past few days with Congress about lowering
the funding number at all from 15.6 billion?   
  
And then, also, have you talked with lawmakers in recent days on
additional pay-fors out of existing funds to replace the state and local
aid pay-for that was taken out of the bill?  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks, Rachel.  On your first question
on the conversations with Congress to reduce the funding, the answer is
no.  We need — we’ve submitted emergency requests for $22.5 billion, and
we stand by that request.  
  
On the pay-fors, you know, we’ll leave it to Congress the details of how
they get this over the finish line in Congress.  But I think there’s
bipartisan recognition that we need this money.  There’s recognition of
the money they provided over a year ago has been well spent.  And we
defer to Congress on the specific legislative approach.   
  
But I will say that there is precedence, including in the prior
administration multiple times, to provide direct COVID response funding
on a bipartisan basis without offsets.  
  
And so, we hope and expect that we’ll be able to rely on that precedent
moving forward.   
  
MR. MUNOZ:  Let’s go to Tamara Keith at NPR.   
  
Q    Apologies.  Two years in, I can’t figure out mute.   
  
Thank you for taking my question.  I’m hoping that you can sort of
explain the mechanics of the markets for these various things, like why
the government still needs to be involved in making these large
purchases; why, you know, large hospital groups couldn’t be buying the
vaccines or buying the monoclonal antibodies; like, why — why it is all
so contingent on federal funds.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah.  Tamara, it’s a good question.  
  
Look, in our preparedness plan, we outlined that we want to explore in
the future the ability to transition some of COVID treatments and
potentially other tools to insurance-based market, like other
healthcare.   
  
But I think our priority from the beginning is to make sure that in a
once-in-a-generation pandemic that has killed over 960,000 Americans,
that we’re taking the measures that are necessary to make those widely
available, free, and accessible to all Americans.   
  
That’s what we’ve done with monoclonal antibody.  That’s what we’ve done
with the Pfizer pills and the Merck pills.  That’s what we’ve done with
testing.  And that’s what we’ve done with, obviously, vaccines.  
  
We think it’s the right thing at this moment to continue to move forward
with that.   
  
And I’d say most important, when we have a variant that strikes like we
had with Omicron, our ability as the federal government to use our
purchasing power as a government to purchase all of those things, all of
those tools, and get them available to all Americans on an equitable
basis saves lives.  And it was fundamental in Omicron, and I would — we
would argue it’s fundamental if a variant were to come in the next few
months.  
  
So, yes, we want to explore over the long term a safe, a smooth
transition.  But right now, we have immediate needs, and we need
Congress to act.  
  
MR. MUNOZ:  Let’s go to Sheryl Stolberg at the New York Times.  
  
Sheryl?  All right, Sheryl, we’ll come back to you.  
  
Let’s go to Zeke Miller at the AP.  
  
Q    Hey.  Thanks for doing this.  Just to follow up on Tam’s question
there: So, why not, if — you know, if the need is immediate and Congress
right now shows no sign of budging, aren’t you exploring those alternate
avenues?  You know, you just required private insurers to cover the cost
of at-home tests.  Why not have them cover the cost of vaccines and
Paxlovid and other things like that?   
  
Why does the government still need to be the middleman there, given the
current rate of COVID-impacted society and mortality?  I mean, how is
that different than, you know, cancer or heart disease, other things
where insurance is — the private insurance market is already effective
there?  
  
And then, separately, lawmakers on Capitol Hill have been, you know,
complaining about that lack of outreach over the last several week —
several weeks from the White House.  Why did it take until, you know,
just the last couple of months for the White House to sort of sound the
alarm here?  Shouldn’t this have been something that you all raised the
alarm on last year as this — as these funds were being rapidly
depleted?  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks, Zeke.  So, on your first
question, I’d say, look, we are exploring those alternatives.  We made
that clear in the — in the Preparedness Plan that we released a few
weeks ago.  But it takes time, as you know, to move to that — to such a
system.  We — it needs to be an orderly, smooth transition.  So we’re
working through that. 

     I’d also say, though, especially for things like vaccines, but in
fact for all of our tools, the United States competes against other
countries to get access — preferential access, as much as we can, to
those tools.  So we shouldn’t be fooled that if we move to this market
that we would still be able to provide Americans the early access to the
tools that we have worked really hard for the last 14 months to be able
to provide. 

     So if you think about a scenario where we had another variant or if
we need a variant-specific vaccine, if the U.S. government sees our
responsibility to provide and purchase those, you know, insurance
companies would be competing against other countries to provide those,
to try to purchase those, as opposed to the U.S. government stepping in
and making sure that all Americans have easy, free access to something
that can save their life. 

     So it’s certainly something we’re exploring.  But it needs to be a
smooth transition, an orderly transition, and there are certain places
where we want to make sure that we are able to step in as the federal
government and provide that access where we think it is merited.   
  
     To your second question on outreach: You know, we have been clear
with Congress since mid-January that funds in our existing balances were
low.  We briefed appropriators and authorizers in February on our
immediate needs. 

     Also in February, we sent a document to the Hill clearly outlining
the near-term consequences of no funding, which included specifically
saying things like the uninsured fund would have to stop taking claims
in March — we are now in March; monoclonals would stock out in May if we
didn’t have funds by March; that AstraZeneca for immunocompromised would
stock out this summer if we didn’t have funds in March.

     We then — the Acting Director of OMB, Shalanda Young, sent a letter
to Congress in March — early March asking for the $22.5 billion. 

     So we’ve been clear with Congress on how funds were dwindling in
these accounts and that there were — there were going to be immediate
consequences of that.  And we’re making that — those consequences clear
again today.

     MR. MUNOZ:  Next question, let’s go to Jeff Mason at Reuters.  
  
Q    Thanks very much.  Two questions.  One, can you — I know, \[senior
administration official\], that you said you would leave the mechanics
of how Congress did this to Congress, but can you just outline what the
options are at this point?  Do you expect that Democrats would have to
put this into a separate bill or the reconciliation bill?  Or what is
your expectation at least for options on how on how to get this across
the finish line?  
  
And secondly, I saw that Punchbowl wrote a story this morning about a
letter that you’ve written to Congress about this.  Can you get us that
letter or confirm that that was written?  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks, Jeff.  So, \[senior
administration official\] on mechanics, and I welcome \[senior
administration official\] to jump in here after I talk if they want to
add.   
  
But, you know, I think, as I mentioned, there are many avenues that
Congress can do to move to move this funding forward.  The — what we see
is past precedent under the prior administration for bipartisan support
for funds for direct COVID response to save lives that were provided
multiple times without offsets.  So we think there’s clearly a precedent
for that.  We’re asking for $22.5 billion for immediate funding, and we
think Congress should move on that.  
  
I say on reconciliation — again, I defer to Congress, but we need this
money now.  These are immediate, near-term consequences, some of which
we’re having to act on this week, next week, and the first week of
April.  So, time is not on our side; we need we need the funding
immediately.  
  
And then on the letter to Congress that’s being sent today — and we’ll
make sure that folks have access to that.  
  
MR. MUNOZ:  Last question, let’s go to Cheyenne Haslett at ABC News.  
  
Q    Thank you.  Hi, guys.  So, I wanted to clarify on testing: Is
capacity declining this month, as we previously heard in March, or do
you have enough on that front to get through June unscathed, \[senior
administration official\], as you said, just a bit ago?  
  
And then on Test to Treat: Can that new program still go on?  Are there
enough antivirals to support that or is that going to have to be scaled
back?  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks.  On testing capacity, \[senior
administration official\], I don’t know if you want to add here, but we
have domestic manufacturing capability to sustain our domestic
manufacturing capability until June.  And at that point, it will greatly
diminish.  
  
\[Senior administration official\], anything you’d add on testing?  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Well, I think that’s exactly right. 
Due to federal support, we’ve been able to maintain this manufacturing
capacity, even though as \[senior administration official\] mentioned,
we are hearing from our domestic manufacturers that demand from other
places is starting to crater.   
  
So, it’s very important that we have this federal funding to support
that manufacturing.  And we anticipate we can keep it going through
June.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks.  And then, Cheyenne, just on
your second question: We do have the pills to do Test to Treat.  We do
not, however, have funding — and this is clear in the materials we put
out — to make any additional purchases of Pfizer pills beyond the ones
that we’ve made.  
  
MR. MUNOZ:  All right.  Well, thank you, everybody, for joining today.  
  
As a reminder, this call is embargoed until 11:30 and attributable to
“senior administration officials.”  
  
Let me know if you have any other questions, and have a good day.  
  
11:03 A.M. EDT
