---
date: '2022-03-28'
published_time: 2022-03-28 11:32:11-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2022/03/28/on-the-record-press-call-by-omb-director-shalanda-young-and-cea-chair-cecilia-rouse-on-the-presidents-fy23-budget/
tags: press-briefings
title: "On-the-Record Press Call by OMB Director Shalanda Young and CEA Chair Cecilia\
  \ Rouse on the President\u2019s FY23\_Budget"
---
 
8:37 A.M. EDT  
  
MR. FRIEDLANDER:  Good morning, everyone.  Thanks for joining us for
this on-the-record call about the President’s Fiscal Year 2023 Budget. 
We’re joined by OMB Director Shalanda Young and Chair of the Council of
Economic Advisers Cecilia Rouse.  They will each offer a few brief
comments at the top, and then we’ll hold time for some questions at the
end.  
  
Again, this call will be on the record, and it’s embargoed until 11:00
a.m. Eastern time today.  
  
You all should have received embargoed materials from our team a short
while ago.  If, for some reason, you haven’t, please reach out to us and
we’ll make sure you get what you need.  
  
With that, I will turn it over to Director Young.  
  
DIRECTOR YOUNG:  Thank you, Rob.  Thank you all for joining.  And Happy
Budget Day, as I like to call today.   
  
You’ve heard the President say that budgets are about values, and his
budget for fiscal year 2023 makes our values clear in three important
ways.   
  
First, this budget is fiscally responsible.  It shows that we’re on
track to reduce the deficit by more than $1.3 trillion this year. 
That’s the largest-ever one-year decline and less than half of the 2020
deficit the President inherited.   
  
This progress was not an accident.  It was a direct result of the
President’s strategy to combat the pandemic and grow our economy from
the bottom up and the middle out — a strategy that was built on smart,
fiscally prudent investments that helped jumpstart our recovery.   
  
And we’ve seen that strategy pay off.  In 2021, we created more than 6.5
million jobs — the most our country has ever recorded in a single year. 
Our economy grew at 5.7 percent — the strongest growth in nearly 40
years.  And the unemployment rate has fallen to 3.8 percent — the
fastest decline in recorded history.   
  
The budget outlines the President’s vision to expand this progress.  Its
investments are more than fully paid for through the tax reforms that
ensure corporations and the wealthiest Americans pay their fair share,
including a new billionaire minimum income tax.  It achieves significant
deficit reduction over the next decade, and it ensures that no one
earning less than $400,000 a year will pay an additional penny in new
taxes.    
  
Second, the budget invests in security both at home and abroad.  Here at
home, it includes critical investments to keep our communities safe,
fund crime prevention and community violence intervention, put more cops
on the beat for community policing, fight gun violence, and advance
criminal justice reform.   
  
And during what will be a decisive decade for the world, the budget
makes one of the largest investments in national security in U.S.
history, strengthening our military and leveraging our renewed strength
at home to meet pressing global challenges.   
  
And third, the budget delivers on the agenda the President laid out in
his State of the Union Address to help build a better America.  It
advances a bipartisan Unity Agenda through proposals to take on the
mental health crisis, combat the opioid epidemic, support our veterans,
and accelerate progress against cancer.   
  
And it makes other key investments in the American people, building a
stronger economy and promoting job creation, improving our country’s
public health infrastructure, combating the climate crisis, and
advancing equity and opportunity across our economy and our country.   
  
As the President made clear in his State of the Union, he’s also
committed to working with Congress to pass legislation that reduces the
deficit; cuts healthcare, energy, childcare, and other costs for
families; and reforms the tax system.    
  
Because those discussions with Congress are ongoing, the budget does not
include specific line items for the investments associated with that
future legislation, nor does it count any of the savings from the
prescription drugs or tax reforms that the House advanced as part of its
Build Back Better Act.   
  
Instead, the budget incorporates a reserve for the legislation and lays
out the President’s three principles:  Legislation must cut costs for
families, cut the deficit, and expand the productive capacity of the
economy.    
  
We’ve been clear that the President wants to sign legislation that cuts
costs for families and reduces the deficit.  But to be conservative, the
budget reflects this reserve fund as deficit neutral.    
  
So, stepping back, what this budget shows is that we can grow the
economy from the bottom up and middle out, and invest in the American
people, and that we can do it in a smart, fiscally responsible way.    
  
With that, let me turn it over to Chair Rouse to talk about the budget’s
economic outlook and forecast.  
  
CHAIR ROUSE:  Thank you, Director Young.  And thank you for your time
today.  I want to use this opportunity to cover two important elements
of the budget: the economic motivation and the economic forecast behind
this policy.  This budget builds on the solid economic gains of the
first year of this administration.   
  
Remember where we were when President Biden took office.  The pandemic
still had a strong grip on the economy, and recovery was uneven and
anemic.  We actually lost 115,000 jobs in December of 2020 alone, and
roughly 4 million workers had been unemployed for more than six months. 
Unemployment was forecast to come down but slowly.  
  
Today, the country looks very different.  The recovery over the last
year has been extraordinary; quicker than independent forecasters
projected.  With over three quarters of the adult population fully
vaccinated, the economy has been able to reopen and rebound.  
  
Over 2021, real output grew by 5.6 percent — the fastest since 1984. 
The unemployment rate fell at its fastest pace since modern data began
in 1948.  The labor force participation rates of Americans 25 to 54
years old grew by the most since 1979.  
  
This robust recovery has put us in a strong position today.  The U.S.
economy is more than 3 percent larger in inflation-adjusted terms than
it was before the pandemic — the fastest recovery in the G7.    
  
Healthy household balance sheets and a strong labor market make us more
resilient to external shocks.  
  
The strong recovery has also put us in a better fiscal position as
faster growth helps lower the deficit.   
  
The Fiscal Year ‘23 budget builds on this solid economic growth.  It is
a continuation of President Biden’s commitment to address longstanding
issues in the economy and make investments that will ensure strong,
sustainable growth that benefits all Americans.   
  
First, the budget is fiscally responsible.  Thanks to the American
Rescue Plan, the economy recovered faster in 2021 than expected. 
Revenues are up, and the pandemic relief (inaudible).    
  
The result is that the expected deficit in Fiscal Year 2022 is $1.3
trillion smaller than it was in Fiscal Year ‘21.  And we believe the
policies in this budget will further reduce the deficit by another
trillion over the next decade.    
  
A lower deficit will help ease long-term inflationary pressures and make
our fiscal trajectory more sustainable.  
  
Second, the budget bolsters domestic and foreign security.  Increased
security here and abroad not only protects lives, but it also reduces
uncertainty, which allows economic activity the room it needs to
renormalize and grow as the pandemic eases.   
  
Third, the budget makes important investments in the American people.  A
healthy, cared-for workforce is a productive workforce.  Moreover, the
budget lowers costs for families such as healthcare, childcare, and
energy — measures that will ease price pressures over the longer
term.   
  
I’d like to close with a word about our forecast.  In many ways, the
economy looks healthier today than it did when we locked our forecast
all the way back in last November.  The economy has created an average
of 600,000 jobs per month since then, including through the Omicron
wave.  And the unemployment rate has fallen an additional 0.8 percentage
points since then.  
  
Indeed, private forecasters now project the unemployment rate to be
lower than the 3.9 and 3.6 percent we projected for 2022 and 2023,
respectively.  
  
But challenges have arisen since last November as well.  The most
obvious is the Russian invasion of Ukraine, which will have
ramifications that are not reflected in our forecast.  For example, the
inflation \[sic\] will li- — the invasion will likely put upward
pressure on energy and food prices.  That, in turn, could reinforce
inflation that was already an issue prior to the invasion due to the
pandemic, supply chain constraints, and a strong demand for goods.   
  
Independent forecasters therefore expect somewhat slower GDP growth but
still anticipate that inflation will come down.   
  
As I said earlier, the strength of our recovery has put us on solid
ground to weather economic shocks.  Americans are back to work, and the
economy is stronger than anyone, including the federal government and
private forecasters, imagined when President Biden took office.   
  
The President’s 2023 budget presents a fiscally fair and responsible
approach to build on the progress we’ve made so far to invest in America
and meet our future challenges.   
  
MR. FRIEDLANDER:  Great. Thank you very much.  Moderator, we’ll take a
few questions now.   
  
Q    Happy Monday to everyone.  Thank you so much for doing this.  I was
hoping to get more sense of how you’re looking at inflation, given that
from 2023 onward there’s the expectation that CPI goes to 2.3 percent. 
Is the idea that we just need another year of adjustment?  Or what’s
kind of underlying that forecast?

CHAIR ROUSE:  I’m sorry, the question about the forecast itself?  Or is
it — is the question about how we’re seeing inflation now, going
forward?

Q    The economic assumptions have inflation CPI at 2.3 percent in table
S-9.  And I’m curious for — is the implication there that — that, in a
sense, like, we just have another year of rough inflation in that
assumption, or kind of what you’re forward thinking on that is?

CHAIR ROUSE:  Okay.  So we an- — so the — first of all, let’s remember
that the forecast was locked on November 10th of 2021.  So that was
quite a while ago.  So this — this economic forecast, if we were
updating today, we would look at it somewhat differently.

But let’s understand where the inflation forecast comes from.  We were
living through a pandemic where we supported households, as we needed to
do, to get through this health crisis, and at the same time, the supply
chains crumbled beneath us.

As a result, we had a mismatch between supply and demand, which
generated some inflation.  We are not alone.  This — we see this
inflation across the developed world with other countries that were
supporting their households, their workers, their businesses through the
pandemic.

Nonetheless, we expected, back in November, that inflationary pressures
would ease as the economy started to renormalize; as we learned to keep
our economic activity going, supporting us through the pandemic, and as
supply chain challenges started to renormalize.  And as the
extraordinary support both by the monetary policy — so, in our case, the
Federal Reserve — and fiscal policy, which was no longer needed, could
be eased, we expected these inflationary pressures to ease over the
coming year.

Then Russia invaded Ukraine.  That has created additional upward
pressure on prices.  That happened in February, well after our forecast
was already completed.  We do expect that that is going to create
additional price pressures over the coming year.  

But again, the fundamentals are that we expect that as we learn to keep
economic activity going through additional waves of the pandemic — we
hope there won’t be many — but as we continue to work through the
challenge of the pandemic, that we will keep economic activity going,
supply chain pressures will ease, the extraordinary measures will start
to roll off as well, and we expect the economy to normalize.

But there’s tremendous uncertainty.  But we and other external
forecasters expect that inflation will ease over the coming year
(inaudible).  
  
Q    Hi, thank you so much for doing this.  I have a couple of
questions.  The first is: If you could explain the Reserve fund a little
bit more, because it looks like, from the — from the S-2 table, that the
deficit reduction is including the tax proposals that you guys are
putting forward.  So I’m trying to understand how the reserve fund would
work but also not impede the deficit reduction you guys are hoping to
achieve over the next decade.

And then, just quickly, I was wondering if there are any changes to the
top individual income rate in this and then also the provision on stock
buyback.  I didn’t see that listed here just yet.  
  
DIRECTOR YOUNG:  So, let me be clear — and thank you for the question
and the opportunity to explain.  The tax proposals we’re holding for the
deficit-neutral reserve fund are different than the tax proposals we are
accounting for our deficit reduction proposals.

We’re paying for our investments on top of what we’re holding in the
deficit-neutral reserve fund.  We felt it was the responsible thing to
do to not double-count those savings, so those things — those are two
separate proposals.  So you don’t see a line item of those tax proposals
in the deficit-neutral reserve fund, but they are separate and apart
from the line items you do see included, as far as tax reforms in the
budget.

As far as the individual rate, the top rate goes to 39.6 percent — the
same as under President Obama and Biden administration.  And so those
are, I believe, the two major questions you had.  
  
Q    Hey, guys.  Thanks for doing — thanks for doing this.  I’m hearing
a weird echo, but we’ll try anyway.

Basically, my core question is: A lot of the budget experts are saying,
you know, look, the reason the deficit is falling is because the
expiration of inherently temporary economic programs, and it’s kind of
absurd for the administration to be taking credit for the decline from
inherently temporary economic programs.  Can I get a response to that? 
Is that (inaudible), or do you think that (inaudible)?  
  
DIRECTOR YOUNG:  Three letters: ARP.  This was not by accident.  And had
the President not had the wisdom and the fortitude, as some people were
saying it was time to retract and stop doing pandemic spending, I don’t
believe and many experts don’t believe we’d be here.  The growth we saw
last year, the highest in 40 years, that added more jobs than ever
recorded last year, we don’t believe was by accident.  And without the
American Rescue Plan, we don’t believe we would be here.   
  
The scarring we’ve seen after past recessionary (inaudible) and after
the last economic failure after Wall Street, we saw significant scarring
that took years for the economy to come through.  So, we believe that
was the right medicine at the time.  And everything that the President
is rightfully taking credit for, you can find right back to the American
Rescue Plan.  
  
CHAIR ROUSE:  Hi, this is Cecilia Rouse.  And I would just add that if
we go back to the Great Recession, it took about four years for us to
return to this normal fiscal posture, and we’re doing it in two.  
  
Q    Hi, guys.  Thanks so much for doing this question.  One question on
the inflation assumption.  So, 2.3 percent this year and next year, and
stable, is not realistic.  Under a more realistic inflation assumption,
can you still claim $1 trillion in deficit reduction?  Would you still
stand by that number?   
  
And then, also the fact that you have a placeholder for Build Back
Better, does that mean that the talks are close?  Can you tell us how
hopeful you are coming to a deal?  Thank you.  
  
DIRECTOR YOUNG:  Eric, I’ll take the first one, the — your second
question first, before turning it over to Chair Rouse on inflation.   
  
What we’re not going to do — and I think I mentioned in the opening
remarks — is get ahead of congressional negotiations.  The
deficit-neutral reserve fund is meant to leave the space, the revenue
specifically, to allow congressional negotiators the room to do what
President Biden has asked.  He has asked for legislation that reduce
costs for Americans and reduces the deficit.  So that is what the budget
is putting forth.   
  
CHAIR ROUSE:  And regarding the inflation: So, as I noted earlier, this
budget was locked and our forecasts were locked before various factors,
which have led forecasters, including the Fed, to raise their inflation
expectations.  Of course, the most recent example is the Russian
invasion of Ukraine and its impact on energy and food prices.   
  
We will have a chance to update our forecast for the next budget.  And
those will — and that update will reflect recent events that were
unknown at the time of the forecast.   
  
But regarding the impact of this inflation on deficit impacts, so what
you see is that — this shows we have actually done analysis of the
impact of unexpected changes in inflation on our budget.  And based on
that analysis, inflation above the forecast raises both expenditures and
revenues by similar amounts, such that it will have little impact on the
deficit overall.  
  
MR. FRIEDLANDER:  Great.  Thank you, Moderator.  I think we’ve got time
for one more.  
  
Q    Thanks.  This question is for Chair Rouse and it also relates to
the inflation forecasts.  You also have a very low interest rate
forecast, which I — you locked in last November.  But as we’ve all seen,
the Federal Reserve has accelerated its plans to tighten (inaudible),
and it’s already set in plans to get the funds rate to 2.8 percent next
year, and now it’s assumed that it will get there this year — perhaps as
soon as this year and perhaps even further.   
  
That’s quite a lot higher than the Treasury yield forecasts in your
economic assumptions.  Can you tell me how a more up-to-date interest
rate assumption might affect the budget outlook, the deficits and debts,
et cetera?   
  
CHAIR ROUSE:  Sure.  So, it’s important to remember that our debt
service line in our summary tables is based on real debt service and
real interest rates.  So even as nominal rates have been rising, real
rates remain negative and will very likely remain negative in the near
term.  
  
In the longer term, our interest rate assumptions remain in sync with
the market and other forecasters’ expectations, leaving to the fact that
under the President’s budget, real interest rate payments remain below
their historical average throughout the coming decade.  
  
MR. FRIEDLANDER:  Great.  Thank you so much.  And thank you all again
for joining.  A reminder this call is on the record and embargoed until
11:00 a.m. Eastern time today, as are the materials that we provided to
you earlier.   
  
If you have additional questions, feel free to be in touch with us by
email or phone, and we will be happy to follow up.  Hope everyone has a
great day.  Thanks very much.   
  
8:57 A.M. EDT
