---
category: press-briefings
date: '2022-03-08'
modified_time: 2022-03-09 09:21:01-05:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2022/03/08/press-gaggle-by-press-secretary-jen-psaki-3/
published_time: 2022-03-08 16:27:32-05:00
title: Press Gaggle by Press Secretary Jen Psaki
---
 
Aboard Air Force One  
En Route Fort Worth, Texas

2:08 P.M. EST

     MS. PSAKI:  Hi, everyone.  Hello.  Okay, welcome to our trip to
Fort Worth, Texas.  Just a couple items for you at the top. 

As I mentioned yesterday, this week we are marking the one-year
anniversary of the American Rescue Plan.  Today, we’re focusing on the
historic tax relief in the American Rescue Plan which is helping lower
costs faced by working Americans.

Thanks to the American Rescue Plan, Americans have received the
largest-ever Child Tax Credit, the largest-ever Earned Income Tax Credit
for workers without dependent children, and the largest-ever Child and
Dependent Care Tax Credit, which will help families meet the high cost
of care. 

Today, we’re providing new state-by-state analysis of how many families
and children will be reached by this historic tax relief.  And we’ll
have more tomorrow.

Also, as you all know, last week, in the President’s State of the Union
address, he talked about the sacred obligation we have as a country to
our veterans.  And that could be — not be more true or relevant than
right now.

Addressing veterans’ health issues is a bipartisan issue and a core
pillar of the President’s Unity Agenda.  He’s pushing for us to
understand more about military exposures and their relation to nine
additional rare cancers, and called on Congress to send him a bill he
will — him a bill he will sign.

Today, he is traveling with a bipartisan group of lawmakers to address
this important, unifying issue.  We think it shows how seriously he
takes this and that he’s following through on a key commitment to
unifying the country.  Texas is home — and he’s actually meeting with a
number of them right now on the plane.

Texas is home to the second-largest population of veterans in the United
States, many of whom rely upon the VA for services and benefits.  Nearly
55 percent of veterans in Texas served in the era when burn pits were
used.

     Finally, one year ago today, on International Women’s Day, the
President issued an executive order establishing the White House Gender
Policy Council and charged it with leading a government-wide effort to
advance gender equity and equality both at home and abroad.

In the year since, the Biden administration has taken significant steps
to advance equal rights and opportunity — from taking on gender-based
violence wherever it occurs, to protecting women’s health, to ensuring
that women and families have economic security — and laid out an
ambitious agenda in the first-ever National Strategy on Gender Equity
and Equality.

And today, we announced that the President’s FY23 budget will request
$2.6 billion for foreign assistance programs that promote gender
equality worldwide, more than doubling the amount requested just last
year.

Josh, why don’t you kick us off?

Q    Thanks, Jen.  Americans right now know that they’re paying a higher
price because of the sanctions against Russia.  Oil was up 7 percent
when we boarded Air Force One on the day.  What is the specific price
that the ban puts on Putin, and how does it deter him in a way that the
previous sanctions did not?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, let me first say that Americans are paying a higher
price at the pump because of the actions of President Putin.  This is a
Putin spike at the gas pump, not one prompted by our sanctions.

We have seen, since President Putin and the Russian military lined up
earlier this year troops at the border, an increase of about 75 cents on
average across the country. 

In terms of what impact this will have, this is continuing to build on
the steps that the President has taken in coordination with our European
partners to squeeze the financial system in Russia, to squeeze the
circle around President Putin, and to send a clear message that we are
going to continue to press and squeeze on the system to hopefully change
the behavior over the course of time.

Q    Is there a dollar amount that you think you’re able to extract from
the Russian economy through the ban?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I don’t have a prediction along those lines, Josh.  I
certainly understand why you’re asking.  I think, as you know and others
who track the Russian markets closely know, they have not even opened
the stock market.  The ruble is at a record low.  They have enormous
financial challenges.  They’re heading into, you know, a version of a
financial recession in Russia, according to outside economists.

So this step is meant to build on the steps we have taken to date from
the United States and from the global community.

Q    Jen, what can the administration do to protect Americans against
the kind of price gouging that the President spoke about today?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, first, I would say one of the steps we can take is to
make clear what is and isn’t impacting gas prices and what the oil
companies can do and have a responsibility to do.  And you heard the
President talk about that today.

So let me give you an example: There have been some, including the
American Petroleum Institute, who have claimed that this is an issue of
having access or funds.  The oil and gas industry has a lot of permits;
onshore alone, more than 9,000 unused approved permits to drill. 

And I would note that only 10 percent of drilling is happening on
federal lands; the other 90 percent is on private lands.  But I’m
talking about the 10 percent in that case. 

So the argument that there are just no opportunities to drill for oil is
just not true.  The phenomenon that we’re actually seeing is much more
about firms wanting to return cash to investors than about a lack of
opportunity. 

And so, part of what the President can do and we can all do is inform
and educate the American public about what the facts are here.  This is
not a lack of places to drill.  This is not a lack of access to oil.  In
fact, last year, we produced more oil and gas in the United States than
the first year of the Trump administration.  Next year is predicted to
be the largest year on record of oil and gas production.  That is not
the issue. 

So, it’s really up to the oil companies to determine whether they are
going to — as well as Wall Street — whether they’re going to reinvest
these war profits from high prices back into the economy, raise
production, and lower prices to American consumers.  And that pressure
should be on them.

Q    What’s the timeframe for implementation of these new restrictions
on imports?

MS. PSAKI:  So it will ban new contracts.  And then for contracts that
are existing, it will be — they’ll have 45 days to deliver on those.

Q    Another question on House Democrats seeming to plan to still move
forward with their bill that will — that has an energy component to it
that sounds very similar to what the President announced, as well as a
piece on looking at Russia’s involvement with the WTO and some expansion
of Magnitsky. 

What is the administration’s take on what the House Democrats are
doing?  And did the President feel at all pressured by members of
Congress of both parties and in both chambers to move fairly quickly on
his own lest he be boxed in by legislation that might be more
complicated to implement than what he was proposing?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, first, we welcome the support of members of Congress
for the President’s announcement this morning — Democrats and
Republicans who have announced support for his efforts.  We are working
in close coordination with Speaker Pelosi and other leaders in Congress
on a shared objective, which is to take steps that will maximize the
impact on President Putin and the Russian economy, and minimize it on
the American people. 

What the President’s priority and focus has been from the beginning and
he has discussed with a range of members is ensuring that we are taking
steps in close coordination with the Europeans, our partners.  Now, we
did not expect nor did we ask them to take the same step that we
announced this morning.  They have a — you know, different capabilities
and different capacities than we do.

Even if you look at data that is — we have available, which is from
2021, we only imported about 10 percent of our oil from Russia.  The
Europeans, it’s more like a third; it’s much higher — about 450 barrels
— million barrels per day as opposed to 700,000 for the United States. 
We recognize that. 

But at the same time, taking steps to act in a coordinated way to ensure
we’re discussing with them the steps we’re considering in taking, and
doing that in a way that does not add to greater, you know, volatility
in the oil markets is a shared objective.  So, we welcome the steps
they’ve taken. 

Now, in terms of the WTO specifics, Ambassador Tai has been obviously
engaging with other WTO countries.  It’s not a unilateral step the
United States could take or the President could take, but we will
continue those conversations as well.

Q    Jen, can you outline some of the things that the administration is
considering to help blunt the impact on consumers of these higher fuel
prices?  Do they include waiving the gasoline tax?  Do they include
waiving the Jones Act?  Do they include lifting environmental specs on
fuel?  Are those things that you are considering as you look at trying
to help consumers?

MS. PSAKI:  So, there are a range that we are considering.  I’m not
going to give you a nod or a wink to any specifics, other than to say
that —

Q    Oh, come on.  

MS. PSAKI:  — there are a range of options on the table.  As you all
know, we are engaging in ongoing conversations with large, global energy
suppliers as a part of it.  Part of that effort has also been to do this
coordinated release of what will be 90 million barrels from the
Strategic Petroleum — Petroleum Reserve — excuse me — this fiscal year,
including the initial announcement and then the one we just made last
week, I believe it was.  So those conversations are ongoing. 

I would also note that part of our — the capacity out here is with the
oil companies who have these approved permits that are unused, where
they could do more.  Now, some CEOs have indicated that they do plan to
increase production, and that’s something that, to meet the supply needs
we have now, we certainly would welcome. 

I would say the last piece of this, in addition to a range of domestic
options we’ll continue to consider and discuss, is that we’re working
with Europe to ensure we’re — we are all diversifying our energy
security measures.  And this is maybe a longer-term step, but this is a
reminder of how important it is to do that — to reduce our dependence on
fossil fuels, on foreign oil, on Russia, and on the whims of dictators,
as we have found ourselves in in this moment.

Q    One question about Iran as well.  They — their negotiator has said
that they are going to stick with their red lines.  And one thing that
they have asked or — they want some certainty that if they do end up
going through with this agreement, that another administration can’t
come in and walk out of it. 

What — how does the U.S. guarantee that?  Is that even possible?

MS. PSAKI:  It’s an interesting question, Jeff.  I mean, I think that,
you know, if you look at what’s happened over the last several years,
you had — obviously, it was — it was — the Iran nuclear deal was
initially approved and moved forward under the Obama-Biden
administration.  When former President Trump pulled out of the deal,
we’ve seen the dire impact that that has led to, including a lack of
visibility into their program; they have made significant progress
toward acquiring a nuclear weapon. 

So, I think that, hopefully, Democrats and Republicans of all stripes
will recognize what a mistake that was.  And if we are — do get back
into the Iran nuclear deal — something we are close on, although it’s
always final details that you have to work through — you know, certainly
our hope would be and the message we’d be sending to the world is that
this is in not only global interests but in our U.S. national interest
regardless of who is sitting in the White House.

Q    Secretary Blinken is finishing up a five-day trip to Europe.  He’s
meeting with Macron today.  He met with the leaders of Baltic states,
Moldova, Poland, the Israeli Foreign Minister.  What would you say are
the accomplishments of this trip?  And are these diplomatic efforts
going to extend to U.S. adversaries like Venezuela?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think those are slight — well, let me take the first
question first. 

We’re broadly, of course, supportive of efforts of our partners and
allies — including France, Germany, Israel, Turkey, and others — to seek
a diplomatic resolution. 

A number of the countries and leaders you’ve mentioned the Secretary of
State has met with recently over the last couple of days but also we’ve
been in touch with either prior to or following — or both, in many cases
— their conversations with both Russians as well as Ukrainians, who
we’re encouraging them to also engage with.  And we maintain open and
regular high-level channels of communications with all of these
partners.

As it relates to Venezuela, I would say — I would take that question
slightly separately, in that, you know, there are a range — there was
obviously a recent trip that was reported and we confirmed.  There were
a range of topics discussed during that trip, including the health and
welfare of detained U.S. citizens. 

But beyond that, those conversations are ongoing and I just don’t have
anything to update you on.

Q    We’re flying to Texas.  There are a couple of Texans who are held
in Russia right now: Trevor Reed and Brittney Griner.  Is the White
House involved at all in negotiating their release, getting their
release?  And also, does the White House fear that more Americans are
going to be used as pawns in this global conflict?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, on the second individual you named, we’ve obviously
seen the reports.  We don’t have a Privacy Act waiver, so I cannot speak
to that case. 

On the case of Trevor Reed, I can tell you that our National Security
Advisor met with his family back in the fall and that we are working on
a time for the President to meet with his family over the short term as
well.  I don’t have a time or date on that or anything like that, but
that is something we are going to work toward.

Q    Jen, there is a question from the print pool on that.  Why isn’t
the President meeting with Trevor Reed’s family today?

MS. PSAKI:  I would say that we are working toward setting up a meeting
with his family.  The President is looking forward to doing that. 

And again, our National Security Advisor met with his family back in the
fall, but it wasn’t — we weren’t able to make it happen on this trip.

Q    Back to Venezuela.  There’s been significant bipartisan concern
expressed about the fact that there are even conversations happening
with the Maduro government at this stage.  Can you be more specific
about what the conversations are with respect to energy and any
tradeoffs that might be on the table to encourage Venezuela to produce
more oil?

MS. PSAKI:  There are really not specifics — additional specifics I can
add at this point.  I would just note that any conversation about the
health and wellbeing of American citizens happens through different
channels.  So I wouldn’t see it as a tradeoff, as you said. 

I would note also that you may have seen Maduro announced this morning
his intention to go back into talks with the opposition.  So, I would
just note that.

Q    It feels like, with Saudi — like, I want to ask you about Saudi
Arabia because it feels like, especially compared to Venezuela, that’s a
country with much greater capacity to backfill global energy supplies
than Venezuela.  Is there disappointment or are there ongoing talks with
the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia about freeing up more reserves, potentially,
to enable Europe to go further with cutting off Russian energy?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would say that, as you know, the President spoke
with King Salman last month, made clear that we share important
interests: deterring Iranian proxy attacks against civilians, ending the
war in Yemen, ensuring the stability of global energy supplies as part
of it. 

And he is very focused on — the President is very focused on the
situation in front of us and what he can do to improve the security and
prosperity of Americans. 

So, I would also note that, in addition to that call, Brett McGurk and
Amos Hochstein traveled to the region and had a conversation about all
of those topics just a few weeks ago. 

So those conversations are going, they will continue, but I don’t have
anything to predict for you at this point.

Q    (Inaudible) more recent conversations, though, since the war in
Ukraine began.

MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have anything to read out for you at this point. 

Q    Jen, you spoke yesterday about the United States’ openness to
backfill planes to Poland if they send jets to Ukraine.  Is that
something that the Vice President will be discussing, helping to
negotiate or coordinate while she’s in Poland this week?

MS. PSAKI:  You know, the Vice President’s trip to Poland and to Europe
is part of our effort to show our strong support for our NATO Allies and
partners, the security assistance they’ve been providing, their role in
accepting and welcoming refugees from Ukraine.  This is certainly a
topic that has been discussed by the President with his counterpart as
recently as a couple days ago. 

I would note, as I said yesterday, it’s obviously a decision by Poland,
a sovereign country, to make about delivering planes. 

There were some logistical questions — important ones — that were still
under discussion about where those planes would take off from and land,
and then there are questions that are probably best — best suited for
the Department of Defense about the procurement of planes to backfill,
because typically that takes a couple of years. 

Q    The President mentioned today that he sent Secretary Blinken to the
border of Poland and Ukraine to see firsthand what was happening.  Will
he also send the Vice President to that same border while she’s on her
trip to report back firsthand to him?

MS. PSAKI:  Sure, Francesca.  I don’t have the details on her trip at
this point in time.  I’m sure they will be doing a backgrounder on
additional steps. 

Obviously, the important role that Poland has been playing as a
neighboring country in welcoming hundreds of thousands of refugees from
Ukraine into their country is something that the Vice President will
note and will thank them for personally when she is on the ground. 

Q    Jen, Senator Grassley has expressed some concerns about the pace at
which Chairman Durbin and Leader Schumer are planning to move ahead on
the Supreme Court confirmation process. 

And, you know, I know that the White House has in the past been very
supportive of that.  I know you’re closely coordinated, so I assume the
same is true now. 

But do you think that there should be a return to a pace more like the
pre-Barrett pace?  And, yes, I know that some of the others in the past
were in this 25-ish-day range, but do you think that — is there any
consideration in the White House of just slowing things down a bit, just
by a few days or a week, to kind of stave off some of that criticism?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would say, first, if you look at the data and
numbers from the past nominees and how long it has — took, we are much
close- — what we’re doing is much closer to the timeframe for Justice
Ginsburg, which was about 28 days.  Justice Barrett was 13.  And it’s
slower than Sandra Day O’Connor’s, which was 21 days. 

So, the pace through which — and we are working, of course, in lockstep
and close coordination with leaders on the Hill — is very much in line
with the majority of nominees in recent history. 

Q    The Irish Times had a report that the United Nations communications
office was telling its employees not to call what’s going on in Ukraine
a “war” or an “invasion.”  Does the White House have any advice for the
United Nations or anyone else on what to call what is happening in
Ukraine?

MS. PSAKI:  I think the United Nations has put out a clarifying
statement on that. 

Q    One more on oil.  Is the White House prepared for the oil price to
go as high as $200 a barrel or something really, really high like that? 
And if so, what preparations are you making to help the American economy
against that kind of a hit?

Q    Will you encourage Americans to stay home the same way they
might’ve been doing through the pandemic so that they’re just driving
less or working from home, for instance?

MS. PSAKI:  We’re neither going to make a prediction nor are we going to
tell Americans to stay home.  What the President is focused on is taking
a range of steps to mitigate the impact.

Obviously, we’ve seen, as I noted a little bit earlier, an increase
since President Putin invaded Ukraine of about 75 cents.  That is — you
know, over the course of the timeline, we’ve seen that in relation to,
you know, concern in the oil mar- — in the global oil markets about what
they’re seeing, which is an invasion. 

And — but we believe that the impact of this oil ban we announced today
will be not long term.  And what we’re working to do is to take steps to
mitigate it, which is, in part, the release from the Strategic Petroleum
Reserve, continuing to coordinate and communicate with global energy
suppliers, and continuing to consider a range of options.

Q    Jen, on the Supreme Court.  Today, Judge Jackson is meeting with
some Republicans, including Senator Scott as well as Senator Collins. 
Does the White House realistically think that those Republicans will
vote for Judge Jackson?  And besides those one-on-one meetings, what is
the White House doing to earn support from Republicans?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would say that, first, Judge Jackson has been doing
her homework and hard at work since the moment she was announced as the
nominee.  She started prepping for hearings and prepping for these
meetings even the weekend after she announced, which probably doesn’t
surprise anyone given her exemplary record and background. 

She has conveyed and expressed an openness, as has the team, to meeting
with a broad range of Democrats and Republicans, of course, on the
committee and beyond.  And it’s up to them to decide who they’re going
to vote for, of course, but she is somebody who has been confirmed three
times by the Senate in a bipartisan manner.  She is someone who has
ruled in favor of Democrats and Republicans, served under Democrats and
Republicans, and very much in the model of Justice Breyer.

So, we believe she deserves bipartisan support.

Q    There’s was a letter from former national security officials
talking about a limited no-fly zone over humanitarian corridors.  Is
that something that the White House would consider if it’s not
considering a full-on no-fly zone over all of Ukraine?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, a limited no-fly zone would still require
implementation of a no-fly zone, even if it’s a smaller geography, which
would still require shooting down Russian planes if they fly into your
no-fly zone. 

So that would still have — we would still have concerns about that being
an escalatory action that could lead us into a war with Russia, which is
not something the President intends to do.

Q    Jen, there was a line in the readout yesterday of the President’s
conversations with the German, French, UK leaders about the leaders
downloading, essentially, their respective engagements with President
Zelenskyy as well as President Putin.

You’ve been clear that the U.S does not believe now is the time for
President Biden to engage directly with President Putin, but is
President Macron essentially acting as an intermediary at this point? 
Is the President using his conversations with President Macron to send
messages to President Putin in any way?

MS. PSAKI:  I wouldn’t say that the President — there are a range of
global leaders who are engaging directly with President Putin. 
President Macron is one of them, but so is Prime Minister Bennett. 

(The plane experiences turbulence.)

Q    Whoa.

MS. PSAKI:  We’ve seen — so — sorry, that was quite a — for those
listening, that was a little bit of a lurch there.

We’ve seen a number of leaders express an openness to, plans to engage. 
And we welcome that and encourage that.  And we have been, through the
process, very closely coordinated with all of these leaders who have
been engaging directly with President Putin. 

What we have been doing is encouraging them — and for the most part,
they’ve done this — to also engage directly with President Zelenskyy as
they, you know, play any role in diplomacy.

But I wouldn’t put it on one leader.  There are a range of leaders who
are playing important roles here.

Q    Is there any opportunity through the P5+1 conversations — are U.S.
officials engaging with their Russian counterparts on any matters
related to Ukraine, even in the context of those discussions with Iran?

MS. PSAKI:  Those conversations are about the Iran nuclear deal and
preventing Iran from acquiring a nuclear weapon, which even as we have
significant, serious concerns about the horrific and barbaric invasion
that President Putin is leading, we believe we do share a desire to
prevent Iran from acquiring a nuclear weapon.

Q    Has the President spoken to any European leaders since that joint
call yesterday morning?

MS. PSAKI:  We’ve put out the readouts of any calls he’s had.  So —

Q    So he said this morning, when he was going into the event, that he
had just gotten off the phone.  So those weren’t with world leaders?

MS. PSAKI:  I believe that was with members of Congress this morning.

Q    Okay.

MS. PSAKI:  I can double check, but we have put out readouts for any
calls he’s had.

Q    What are the next steps on the anti-lynching bill?  When does the
President intend to sign?

MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  Well, let me just give you a little bit more on this
for your records. 

It’s long past time that our federal laws recognize lynching for the
abomination and the stain on the soul of this country that it is.  And
yesterday, Congress, for the first time in more than 100 years, after
more than 200 tries, made lynching a federal crime. 

This historic moment would not have happened without the bipartisan
efforts that started with the Vice President — then Senator Harris;
Senator Booker; and Congressman Bobby Rush, who worked to build support
in the House and Senate to make this day a reality. 

The President looks forward to signing this historic bill into law with
the Vice President by his side.  As you know, he’s obviously traveling
today.  She’s traveling.  So I don’t have an update on exactly when, but
hopefully it will be — the plan would be for it to be when they can both
be there in person.

Q    And a COVID question.  I know the White House released yesterday
that the President had tested negative again for the coronavirus.  Now
that we’re in a more maskless environment — I’m sure the President will
largely not be wearing one today — is there plans for the White House to
test the President more regularly and disclose the results of those
tests more regularly?

MS. PSAKI:  He is tested on a regular basis.  The last time was Sunday. 
It’s typically about once a week, but it’s a determination made by his
doctor.  I’m not aware of any changes to that protocol.  The only
protocol that’s changed is masking.

Let me give you a little bit of an update on today because there’s just
different rules in different facilities too. 

So, outside, the President will not be masking.  At the VA facility, he
will abide by the VA facility’s mask requirement and wear a mask, as we
all will as well.  We’ll join him in the masking requirement.  And at
the community center, he will not be masking.  So, some of this is there
are different restrictions and requirements in different facilities,
which we’ll continue to abide by.  And this is a “yellow zone” that we
are traveling to.

Q    Jen, do you have a comment on the Supreme Court ruling yesterday
upholding congressional maps in Pennsylvania and North Carolina?

MS. PSAKI:  Let me check and see if there’s something we have to offer
you on that.

Q    And staying on the subject of Texas for a moment, is there anything
more you can tell us about the Biden administration’s efforts to keep
the state of Texas from implementing a directive on care for transgender
children?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, let me first say that the steps we’ve seen in Texas
and Florida are deeply concerning and are having — are discriminating
against exactly the kind of kids who we need to be loving and
supporting.

And we’ve seen — and I reference Florida because, as you know, they just
recently passed a similar hateful bill that hurt some of the students
most in need. 

In terms of any legal actions, I’d obviously point you to the Department
of Justice.  But I would just note that the President, the Secretary of
Education, many members of the administration have spoken out about the
discriminatory nature of these bills and our deep concerns about the
message they’re sending to LGBTQ kids and families.

Q    You mentioned Florida.  The Department of Education said today in a
statement on the Florida legislature’s Parental Rights in Education Bill
that, quote, “all schools receiving federal funding must follow federal
civil rights laws, including Title IX’s protections.”  End quote.  Is
the administration considering halting the flow of Title IX funding to
Florida if it moves forward with that legislation?

MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have anything to update you on, on that front.  We
can check if there’s more to report on that.

Q    The United Kingdom announced that it was also going to have
restrictions on the importation of Russian oil and gas.  Was there
coordination with the White House to time these announcements at the
same time?  And do you think the UK’s decision to wait until the end of
the year to implement that is the right one?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would say every country will make their own
decisions.  We did not expect nor did we request for the European
countries to follow suit.  I’m not sure what the import numbers are for
the United Kingdom.  I believe they are low, as are ours.  And ours were
about 10 percent last year.  So, they may have looked at it through a
different prism, as we did, through many other European countries — or
countries in Europe who have much larger percentages of imports and have
lower capacities for production. 

So, certainly, it’s a step we took.  There have been a range of
conversations with Prime Minister Boris Johnson.  But again, these are
steps taken by individual countries.

Q    What is the administration’s feeling on the European Commission’s
announcement that the plan now is to cut its Russian energy imports by
two thirds by the end of the year?  Is that something that the White
House applauds?  Or are there also concerns about the potential impact
on global supplies of Europe, which is so much more dependent on Russian
oil?

MS. PSAKI:  We welcome efforts for Europe — by Europe and other
countries to diversify their energy sources.  There is no question about
that.  There are also steps — I mean, the oil market — oil is a global
marketplace, right?  So, we are working in lockstep with our European
partners to ensure that the supply on the marketplace is meeting what
the demand is. 

But in terms of efforts to diversify, we certainly welcome that.  We’re
doing — we’re working to do something similar.

Q    I have a couple more, sorry.  On Judge Jackson, she’s also meeting
with Democrats today.  Is the White House confident it will get the
support of the entire Democratic Caucus for Judge Jackson?

MS. PSAKI:  We believe Judge Jackson is an eminently qualified nominee
who has been approved three times by bipartisan — a bipartisan Senate. 
And, you know, certainly we believe she warrants and deserves bipartisan
support.

Q    And, on Texas, does the President have any plans to meet with Beto
O’Rourke, the Democratic gubernatorial candidate for governor?

MS. PSAKI:  On this trip, I don’t believe so.

Q    Okay.  And what — why did he choose Texas for this trip — and
veterans — first?  This is the first stop on his Unity Agenda tour, as
you could call it.  So, why Texas?

MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think as I said at the beginning, Texas is home to
the second-largest population of veterans in the United States, many of
whom rely on the VA for services and benefits.  And nearly 55 percent of
veterans in Texas served in the era when burn pits were used. 

And this is an opportunity also for the President to travel with a
bipartisan group, which showcases to the country and the people of Texas
and the veterans community of Texas how important this is to the
President and how committed he is to continuing to make proc- — progress
on his Unity Agenda.

All right.  Thanks, everyone.                                        

2:40 P.M. EST
