---
date: '2023-08-14'
published_time: 2023-08-14 18:22:31-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/08/14/statement-from-president-joe-biden-on-student-loan-debt-cancellation-for-more-than-800000-borrowers/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Statement from President Joe\_Biden on Student Loan Debt Cancellation for\
  \ More Than 800,000\_Borrowers"
---
 
On Day One of my Administration, I promised to fight for hardworking
families and to fix problems in the student loan system that have been
failing borrowers for too long. I’m proud that my Administration is
delivering on that promise and has already approved over $116 billion in
debt cancellation for 3.4 million Americans – no matter how many
lawsuits, challenges, or roadblocks Republican elected officials or
special interests put in our way.

When I came into office, hundreds of thousands of borrowers weren’t
accurately getting credit for student loan payments that should have
delivered them forgiveness under Income-Driven Repayment plans or were
placed into forbearance by loan servicers in violation of Department of
Education rules. Under these plans, if a borrower makes 20 or 25 years’
worth of payments, they get the remaining balances of their loans
forgiven. But because of errors and administrative failures of the
student loan system that started long before I took office, over 804,000
borrowers never got the credit they earned, and never saw the
forgiveness they were promised – even after making payments for decades.

I was determined to right this wrong, and today, because of actions my
Administration took, these 804,000 borrowers who have been in repayment
for over 20 years will start to see their student debt cancelled.  Over
614,000 of them will have all of their remaining federal student loan
debt cancelled once this action is complete.

Today’s actions come on top of all we’ve been able to achieve for
students and student loan borrowers in the past few years.  This
includes: achieving the largest increases in Pell Grants in over a
decade to help families who earn less than roughly $60,000 a year;
fixing the Public Service Loan Forgiveness program so that borrowers who
go into public service get the debt relief they’re entitled to under the
law; and creating the most generous Income-Driven Repayment plan in
history, called SAVE.  Borrowers can go to studentaid.gov to apply. And,
we’re not done.  As I announced earlier this summer in the wake of the
Supreme Court’s decision on our student debt relief plan, we will
continue to pursue an alternative path to deliver student debt relief to
as many borrowers as possible as quickly as possible. We will use every
tool at our disposal to get student loan borrowers the relief they need
to reach their dreams. 

\###
