---
date: '2023-08-09'
published_time: 2023-08-09 16:27:51-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/08/09/president-biden-signs-executive-order-on-addressing-united-states-investments-in-certain-national-security-technologies-and-products-in-countries-of-concern/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Signs Executive Order on Addressing United\_States Investments\
  \ In Certain National Security Technologies And Products In Countries Of\_Concern"
---
 
The Biden-Harris Administration is committed to keeping America safe and
defending America’s national security by protecting technologies that
are critical to the next generation of military innovation.

Today, President Joe Biden signed an Executive Order on Addressing
United States Investments In Certain National Security Technologies And
Products In Countries Of Concernthat authorizes the Secretary of the
Treasury to regulate certain U.S. investments into countries of concern
in entities engaged in activities involving sensitive technologies
critical to national security in three sectors: semiconductors and
microelectronics, quantum information technologies, and artificial
intelligence. In an Annex to the E.O., the President identified the
People’s Republic of China (PRC), including the Special Administrative
Region of Hong Kong and the Special Administrative Region of Macau, as a
country of concern. 

The Department of the Treasury simultaneously released an Advanced
Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (ANPRM), with proposed definitions to
elaborate the scope of the program, which will be subject to public
notice and comment, before it goes into effect.

Cross-border investment flows have long contributed to U.S. economic
vitality. We are committed to taking narrowly targeted actions to
protect our national security while maintaining our longstanding
commitment to open investment.  This program will seek to prevent
foreign countries of concern from exploiting U.S. investment in this
narrow set of technologies that are critical to support their
development of military, intelligence, surveillance, and cyber-enabled
capabilities that risk U.S. national security. 

The program complements the United States’ existing export control and
inbound screening tools with a “small yard, high fence” approach to
address the national security threat posed by countries of concern
advancing such sensitive technologies. Specifically, it will prohibit
certain investments in entities that engage in specific activities
related to these technology areas that pose the most acute national
security risks, and require notification for other sensitive
investments.

President Biden signed this Executive Order following extensive and
thorough consultations with hundreds of stakeholders, industry members,
and foreign allies and partners. Those engagements will continue as part
of the notice-and-comment period to solicit additional public feedback
to make any needed adjustments before the rule goes into effect.

Read the Executive Order
[here](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/08/09/executive-order-on-addressing-united-states-investments-in-certain-national-security-technologies-and-products-in-countries-of-concern/).

Read Treasury’s fact sheet on the program
[here](https://home.treasury.gov/system/files/206/Outbound-Fact-Sheet.pdf).

Read Treasury’s press release on the ANPRM
[here](https://home.treasury.gov/news/press-releases/jy1686).

\###
