---
date: '2023-08-10'
published_time: 2023-08-10 18:51:49-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/08/10/what-they-are-saying-president-biden-designates-baaj-nwaavjo-itah-kukveni-ancestral-footprints-of-the-grand-canyon-national-monument/
tags: statements-releases
title: "WHAT THEY ARE SAYING: President\_Biden Designates Baaj Nwaavjo I\u2019tah\
  \ Kukveni \u2013 Ancestral Footprints of the Grand Canyon National\_Monument"
---
 
  
As part of the Biden-Harris Administration’s historic climate and
conservation agenda, this week President Biden signed a proclamation
establishing the Baaj Nwaavjo I’tah Kukveni – Ancestral Footprints of
the Grand Canyon National Monument in Arizona.

This designation, which marks the fifth new national monument
established by President Biden, honors Tribal Nations and Indigenous
peoples by protecting sacred ancestral places and their historically and
scientifically important features, while conserving our public lands,
protecting wildlife habitat and clean water, and supporting local
economies.

The [Las Vegas Sun editorial
board](https://lasvegassun.com/news/2023/aug/09/biden-proves-to-be-an-able-guardian-of-nations-lan/)
called the designation “a major victory for Native American tribes,
outdoor enthusiasts and environmentalists who have spent decades
fighting to protect land and waterways that are considered culturally
significant and essential to life in the desert Southwest from
destruction and pollution caused by mining and development.”

“President Joe Biden delivered big this week, not just for Americans,
but for America — the people, the places, the resources and the
environment.”

*Leaders from across the country praised the announcement. Here’s what
they’re saying:  
*  
**<u>Tribal Leaders  
</u>**  
**Amelia Flores, Chairwoman, Colorado River Indian Tribes:** “… We thank
President Biden and his administration for taking this vital step
forward to protect the health of the Colorado River, the surrounding
lands, and the irreplaceable cultural resources. This designation honors
the tribal connections to the surrounding lands and the value of tribal
stewardship in protecting the waters that flow through the Grand Canyon
down to our reservation.”
\[[Statement](https://keepitgrandaz.org/wp-content/uploads/2023/08/GrandCanyonTribalCoalition_PR.pdf),
8/8/23\]

**Thomas Siyuja Sr., Chairman, Havasupai Tribe:** “The Havasupai Tribe
celebrates this historic moment in time, but we also pause for a moment
to honor our tribal ancestors who started this journey long ago…Biden’s
action today will solidify our Tribe’s existence on, under, and over
this land forever. Although there is still more work to do, we will
sleep easier tonight knowing that our water, sacred sites, and plant
medicines are more protected, and that our ancestors’ tears are finally
tears of happiness.”
\[[Statement](https://keepitgrandaz.org/wp-content/uploads/2023/08/GrandCanyonTribalCoalition_PR.pdf),
8/8/23\]

**The Hopi Tribe:** “Life continues here at Baaj Nwaavjo I’tah Kukveni.
Hopi would like to recognize all those in support of protecting itah
tutskwa (ancestral land) and preserving sacred places. Hisat Sinom
(ancestors) have left us connected to songs, dances, and ceremonies
since time immemorial. As stewards of the land we will continue to
safeguard the future for generations to come.”
\[[Statement](https://keepitgrandaz.org/wp-content/uploads/2023/08/GrandCanyonTribalCoalition_PR.pdf),
8/8/23\]  
**  
Buu Nygren, President, Navajo Nation:** “The Grand Canyon is too
important to not protect…. We are thankful to President Biden and the
Grand Canyon Tribal Coalition for their efforts in pushing this
initiative to protect our people from the adverse effects of uranium
mining.”
\[[Statement](https://keepitgrandaz.org/wp-content/uploads/2023/08/GrandCanyonTribalCoalition_PR.pdf),
8/8/23\]

**Corrina Bow, Chairwoman, Paiute Indian Tribe of Utah:** “Thank you,
President Biden for listening to the voices of our indigenous people and
finally protecting our ancestral homeland. Thanks to everyone who worked
diligently to bring this to light. Our land will now be preserved, and
our sacred areas and sites protected. Ai Yuk, Thank you.”
\[[Statement](https://keepitgrandaz.org/wp-content/uploads/2023/08/GrandCanyonTribalCoalition_PR.pdf),
8/8/23\]

**Johnny Lehi Jr., President, San Juan Southern Paiute Tribe:** “The San
Juan Southern Paiute Tribe is honored and grateful that President Biden
has chosen to listen to tribes and designate our homelands as a national
monument. We have been here for centuries, and are pleased to now have
these sacred sites and waters protected today and into the future.”
\[[Statement](https://keepitgrandaz.org/wp-content/uploads/2023/08/GrandCanyonTribalCoalition_PR.pdf),
8/8/23\]

**Hope Silvas, Chairwoman, Shivwits Band of Paiutes:** “Ai’uck (Thank
You) President Biden, Secretary Haaland and Secretary Vilsack… for
hearing our voices on the importance of protecting and preserving our
ancestral homelands and for supporting our tribal efforts to designate
the Baaj Nwaavjo I’tah Kukveni as a National Monument.”
\[[Statement](https://keepitgrandaz.org/wp-content/uploads/2023/08/GrandCanyonTribalCoalition_PR.pdf),
8/8/23\]

**Deryn Pete, Chairwoman, Las Vegas Paiute Tribe:** “The Las Vegas
Paiute Tribe is very pleased to witness the ongoing efforts to protect
sacred ancestral Tribal homelands. We celebrate, with all of Indian
Country, this significant development in recognition of the importance
of Native history.”
\[[Statement](https://keepitgrandaz.org/wp-content/uploads/2023/08/GrandCanyonTribalCoalition_PR.pdf),
8/8/23\]

**Greg Anderson, Chairman, Moapa Band of Paiutes:** “This is a great day
today witnessing our Tribal Nations coming together in the protection
and unity of our voices, speaking on behalf of our traditional ancestral
homelands of the Grand Canyon; our Holy Lands.”
\[[Statement](https://keepitgrandaz.org/wp-content/uploads/2023/08/GrandCanyonTribalCoalition_PR.pdf),
8/8/23\]

**The Pueblo of Zuni:** “The Grand Canyon is the place of emergence of
the A:shiwi (Zuni People)…. Through the designation of the Grand Canyon
as a national monument, we continue in our ancestors’ footsteps of
stewardship responsibilities of this important area, from protecting the
lowliest of insects to the humans that rely on the life-giving waters.”
\[[Statement](https://keepitgrandaz.org/wp-content/uploads/2023/08/GrandCanyonTribalCoalition_PR.pdf),
8/8/23\]

**Tanya Lewis, Chairwoman, Yavapai-Apache Nation:** “The Yavapai-Apache
Nation joins with the Tribes represented by the Grand Canyon Tribal
Leaders Coalition, and with all Arizona Tribes, in calling on the
Administration to protect the spiritual, cultural, and historical
connection of the Tribes to the lands of the proposed Baaj Nwaavjo I’tah
Kukveni – Ancestral Footprints of the Grand Canyon National Monument.”
\[[Statement](https://keepitgrandaz.org/wp-content/uploads/2023/08/GrandCanyonTribalCoalition_PR.pdf),
8/8/23\]

**Fawn Sharp, President of the National Congress of American Indians:**
“President Biden’s designation of the Baaj Nwaavjo I’tah Kukveni –
Ancestral Footprints of the Grand Canyon National Monument – is a
profound recognition of the historical and contemporary significance of
these lands. This monumental decision honors our integral role in the
conservation process, amplifies Native voices, and protects these sacred
homelands for generations yet to experience them.”
\[[Statement](https://www.ncai.org/news/articles/2023/08/10/ncai-commends-president-biden-s-designation-of-the-baaj-nwaavjo-i-tah-kukveni-ancestral-footprints-of-the-grand-canyon-national-monument),
8/10/23\]

**<u>Elected Officials  
</u>**  
**Arizona Governor Katie Hobbs:** “I was proud to join tribal leaders as
we celebrated the designation of the Baaj Nwaavjo I’tah Kukveni Grand
Canyon national monument. The designation will preserve water supplies,
support our economy, and preserve a cultural and natural treasure.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/GovernorHobbs/status/1689064028952465409),
8/8/23\]

**Arizona Representative and House Natural Resources Committee Ranking
Member Raúl Grijalva:** “…I also want to thank President Biden,
Secretary Haaland, Secretary Vilsack, and CEQ Chair Mallory for their
support and commitment to listening to tribes and preserving our
nation’s natural, historical, and cultural treasures for good. The Baaj
Nwaavjo I’tah Kukveni – Ancestral Footprints of the Grand Canyon
National Monument would not be possible without their vision and
leadership.”
\[[Statement](https://democrats-naturalresources.house.gov/media/press-releases/ranking-member-grijalva-hails-new-baaj-nwaavjo-itah-kukveni_-ancestral-footprints-of-the-grand-canyon-national-monument-thanks-tribes-for-tireless-efforts),
8/8/23\]

**Arizona Senator Krysten Sinema:** “Today’s designation is the product
of hard work and relentless determination of thousands of Arizonans from
diverse backgrounds and interests, including Arizona tribal communities,
local leaders, conservationists, sportsmen, and many more — all with a
shared passion for protecting Arizona’s air, land, and water for future
generations. ”
\[[Statement](https://www.sinema.senate.gov/breaking-sinema-biden-arizona-leaders-designate-new-grand-canyon-national-monument/),
8/08/23\]

**Arizona Senator Mark Kelly:** “President Biden’s designation of this
new national monument is a welcome decision that will protect cultural
sites as well as the communities and recreation jobs that depend on this
land. It’s also the result of years of advocacy by Arizona community and
tribal leaders who I was proud to support by leading this effort
alongside Senator Sinema in the United States Senate.”
\[[Statement](https://www.kelly.senate.gov/newsroom/press-releases/sen-kelly-statement-on-national-monument-designation-near-grand-canyon/),
8/8/23\]

**Arizona Representative Greg Stanton:** “Great to join @POTUS and
tribal leaders today to establish 1 million acres of land as a national
monument. @RepRaulGrijalva has fought to protect sacred land around the
\#GrandCanyon from mining since 2008—I’ve been proud to join him in this
effort. Our national parks are the crown jewels of our country. We’ll be
using nearly $44 million from the Inflation Reduction Act to restore
ecosystems, conserve water, protect trees & animals, & help keep these
parks special places for future generations.”
\[[Tweet,](https://twitter.com/RepGregStanton/status/1689006968399335424?s=20)
8/8/23\]

**Arizona Representative Ruben Gallego:** “The Grand Canyon is one of
the natural wonders of the world and the ancestral home of numerous
tribes…I applaud the Biden Administration for following the leadership
of tribes and Members of Congress by designating the Baaj Nwaavjo I’tah
Kukveni – Ancestral Footprints of the Grand Canyon National Monument.”
\[[Statement](https://rubengallego.house.gov/media-center/press-releases/gallego-applauds-biden-establishing-baaj-nwaavjo-itah-kukveni-ancestral),
8/8/23\]

**Massachusetts Representative and Democratic Whip Katherine Clark:**
“This is a huge win- for Arizona’s indigenous peoples, for our public
lands, and for our planet.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/WhipKClark/status/1688950612539453450?s=20),
8/8/23\]

**Minnesota Representative Betty McCollum:** “The designation of the
Baaj Nwaavjo I’tah Kukveni National Monument is a victory for clean
water, tribal rights, and the preservation of our natural treasures! I
joined Rep. Grijalva & colleagues on a letter asking @POTUS to
\#KeepItGrand.”
\[[Tweet,](https://twitter.com/BettyMcCollum04/status/1688921144253140994?s=20)
8/8/23\]

**Michigan Representative Debbie Dingell:** “This is great news for the
future of conservation and climate resiliency. Thankful @POTUS is
continuing to take steps to ensure our country’s beautiful outdoors are
protected for generations to come.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepDebDingell/status/1688956976552718352?s=20),
8/8/23\]

**Missouri Representative Emanuel Cleaver:** “The @GrandCanyonNPS is one
of our planet’s most cherished landscapes. Today, @POTUS is protecting
nearly a million more acres of pristine land and tribal & cultural
heritage around the Grand Canyon, ensuring future generations can enjoy
it as we have. \#KeepItGrand”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/repcleaver/status/1688972885933625367),
8/8/23\]

**New Mexico Representative Melanie Stansbury:** “These lands are sacred
lands. That’s why @POTUS just designated nearly a million acres near the
Grand Canyon as our newest National Monument—Baaj Nwaavjo I’tah Kukveni
Protecting these lands from uranium mining and for generations to come!”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/Rep_Stansbury/status/1689003908964945924?s=20),
8/8/23\]

**California Representative Tony** **Cárdenas:** “The @GrandCanyonNPS is
one of our planet’s most cherished landscapes. Thanks to the dedication
of tribes, @POTUS is protecting nearly a million more acres as part of
the Baaj Nwaavjo I’tah Kukveni – Ancestral Footprints of the Grand
Canyon National Monument. \#KeepItGrand.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepCardenas/status/1689041500687015937),
8/8/23\]

**Texas Representative Jasmine Crockett:** “The news we NEED! @POTUS
just designated the Baaj Nwaavjo I’tah Kukveni – Ancestral Footprints of
the Grand Canyon National Monument to safeguard ancestral homelands…one
of our most cherished places. Thanks to the administration for
protecting our \#PublicLands! We \#KeepItGrand”
\[[Tweet,](https://twitter.com/RepJasmine/status/1688999766053498880)
8/9/23\]

**<u>Conservation Leaders  
</u>**  
**Vianey Olivarria, Executive Director, Chispa AZ**: “… We are ecstatic
that our state has a new national monument, grateful that the Biden
administration listened to the call of Tribal leaders and relieved that
the unique ecosystems, wildlife and water sources found in and around
the Grand Canyon are now protected for future generations.”
\[[Statement](https://www.lcv.org/media-center/lcv-and-chispa-az-celebrate-president-bidens-baaj-nwaavjo-itah-kukveni-ancestral-footprints-of-the-grand-canyon-national-monument-designation/),
8/8/2023\]

**Scott Garlid, Executive Director, Arizona Wildlife Federation:** “The
Baaj Nwaavjo I’tah Kukveni – Ancestral Footprints of the Grand Canyon
National Monument will protect water that is vital to the existence of
wildlife, Indigenous communities, and 40 million other users downstream.
We are grateful to the Grand Canyon Tribal Coalition, the Biden
Administration, and Arizona’s Congressional delegation for working
tirelessly to create a balanced and reasonable designation that assures
the Grand Canyon watershed will be both protected and actively enjoyed.”
\[[Statement,](https://www.azwildlife.org/resources/Documents/Grand%20Canyon%20NM%20Press%20Release%20-%20Arizona%20Wildlife%20Federation%20(2).pdf)
8/8/23\]

**Sandy Bahr, Director, Grand Canyon Chapter, Sierra Club:** “Sierra
Club thanks President Biden for hearing and responding to the Grand
Canyon Tribal Coalition’s request to establish the Baaj Nwaavjo I’tah
Kukveni – Ancestral Footprints of the Grand Canyon National Monument…
President Biden has taken a historic step to safeguard the greater Grand
Canyon region and to ensure that the Grand Canyon Tribal Coalition has a
leadership role in the management of these lands going forward as they
continue their stewardship roles, which have been in place since time
immemorial.”
\[[Statement](https://www.sierraclub.org/press-releases/2023/08/sierra-club-celebrates-designation-baaj-nwaavjo-i-tah-kukveni-ancestral),
8/8/2023\]

**Ethan Aumack, Executive Director, Grand Canyon Trust**: “Today’s news
has been years in the making…And we extend our most heartfelt thanks to
the Biden administration, Congressman Grijalva, and Senator Sinema for
listening to tribes and Arizona communities and taking one more step
toward protecting the Grand Canyon region, its cultural heritage, and
water resources forever.”
\[[Statement](https://www.grandcanyontrust.org/president-biden-announces-baaj-nwaavjo-itah-kukveni-grand-canyon-national-monument),
8/8/23\]

**Michael Cravens, Vice Chair of the Board, Arizona Chapter, Backcountry
Hunters and Anglers**: “Baaj Nwaavjo I’tah Kukveni – Ancestral
Footprints of the Grand Canyon National Monument is a wild landscape
that supports a world-renowned mule deer herd. Declaring this iconic
landscape a national monument, along with preserving recreational access
and keeping authority over wildlife management in the capable hands of
our Arizona Game and Fish Department, not only successfully protects
this region from the adverse effects of uranium and hardrock mining; it
also preserves the imperative connection that people have to the land.”
\[[Statement](https://www.backcountryhunters.org/administration_designates_grand_canyon_monument),
8/8/23\]

**Alicyn Gitlin, Program Manager, Grand Canyon Chapter’s Restore and
Protect Grand Canyon Campaign, Sierra Club:** “We’re thrilled to see
today’s action by the President and in addition to thanking him, we want
to send our heartfelt thanks to the Grand Canyon Tribal Coalition for
their leadership in advancing this important action..”
\[[Statement](https://www.sierraclub.org/sites/default/files/2023-08/20230808a_SC_Response_BNIKGC_Monument_Proclamation.pdf),
8/8/23\]

**Kelly Burke, Executive Director, Wild Arizona:** “This is a huge
success–a legacy for those tribal leaders, communities and organizations
who have worked for at least 20 years to protect these magnificent
rimlands of the Grand Canyon. We applaud this new Monument as a key
component in protecting a highly-threatened cultural and biological link
in Arizona’s landscape and we wholeheartedly thank President Biden and
the Grand Canyon Tribal Coalition for the leadership expressed by
today’s action. Arizona’s essential webs of life, including our natural
waters, wildlife pathways and the fabric of Tribal cultures are the big
winners in this designation.” \[Statement, 8/8/23\]

**Taylor McKinnon, Southwest Director, The Center for Biological
Diversity:** “With this historic designation, President Biden is
permanently safeguarding the magnificent rimlands that flank the Grand
Canyon, their rich biodiversity, and life-giving springs and aquifers.”
\[[Statement](https://biologicaldiversity.org/w/news/press-releases/biden-designates-baaj-nwaavjo-itah-kukveni-ancestral-footprints-of-the-grand-canyon-national-monument-2023-08-08/?_gl=1*1dsey44*_gcl_au*MTIwMDI1MDg2OC4xNjkxNTA2NDA1),
8/8/23\]

**GreenLatinos:** “Big protections are coming to the Grand Canyon
region! Thanks to the hard work of the Grand Canyon Tribal Coalition &
AZ communities, @POTUS is set to designate Baaj Nwaavjo I’tah Kukveni –
Ancestral Footprints of the Grand Canyon National Monument!
\#KeepItGrand”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/GreenLatinos/status/1688933809444859904),
8/8/23\]

**Native American Rights Fund:** “BREAKING: Grand Canyon protected! NARF
applauds President Biden’s designation of the Baaj Nwaavjo I’tah Kukveni
monument, protecting Native homelands in the Grand Canyon landscape.”
\[[Tweet,](https://twitter.com/NDNrights/status/1688983866919272448)
8/9/23\]  
  
**Maite Arce, President and CEO, Hispanic Access Foundation:** “We
applaud President Biden for listening to Indigenous tribes and the
Tribal Coalition in protecting the ancestral lands of the Grand Canyon
and designating the Baaj Nwaavjo I’tah Kukveni Grand Canyon National
Monument.”
\[[Statement](https://hispanicaccess.org/news-resources/news-releases/item/2524-hispanic-access-applauds-the-designation-of-the-baaj-nwaavjo-i-tah-kukveni-the-ancestral-footprints-of-the-grand-canyon-national-monument),
8/8/23\]  
  
**Theresa Pierno, President and CEO, National Parks Conservation
Association:** “…We commend the Biden administration for listening to
those voices and taking action to protect this watershed now and
forever. Today, we celebrate the designation of the Baaj Nwaavjo I’tah
Kukveni – Ancestral Footprints of the Grand Canyon National Monument
with all who cherish this special place.”
\[[Statement](https://www.npca.org/articles/3560-victory-parks-group-celebrates-designation-of-grand-canyon-national),
8/8/23\]  
  
**Camilla Simon, Executive Director, Hispanics Enjoying Camping,
Hunting, and the Outdoors:** “We applaud President Biden for listening
to the Grand Canyon Tribal Coalition and the overwhelming support of the
community to protect the Grand Canyon watershed from uranium mining.” 
\[[Statement](https://www.hechoonline.org/blog/the-new-baaj-nwaavjo-itah-kukveni-grand-canyon-national-monument-will-safeguard-an-irreplaceable-landscape-honor-tribes-and-protect-a-vital-watershed),
8/8/23\]

**Jamie Williams, President, The Wilderness Society:** “President
Biden’s designation of Baaj Nwaavjo I’tah Kukveni-Ancestral Footprints
of the Grand Canyon National Monument underscores his administration’s
commitment to cultural preservation and safeguarding the greater Grand
Canyon region’s clean air and water sources.”
\[[Statement](https://www.wilderness.org/articles/press-release/baaj-nwaavjo-itah-kukveni-ancestral-footprints-grand-canyon-national-monument-protects-tribal-lands-and-waters),
8/8/23\]  
  
**Collin O’Mara, President and CEO, National Wildlife Federation:**
“Generations of Indigenous Peoples and other residents of Arizona carry
with them the mistakes of dangerous uranium mining. The creation of the
Baaj Nwaavjo I’tah Kukveni – Ancestral Footprints of the Grand Canyon
National Monument cannot make them whole, but it will help spare future
generations of people and wildlife from irreparable harm.”
\[[Statement](https://www.nwf.org/Latest-News/Press-Releases/2023/8-8-23-Grand-Canyon-National-Monument-Designation),
8/8/23\]

**Katie Murtha, Vice President of Federal Relations, Trust for Public
Land:** “Trust for Public Land applauds President Biden and his
Administration for designating the Baaj Nwaavjo I’tah Kukveni Grand
Canyon National Monument. The Grand Canyon region encompasses an
ecologically rich landscape that is deeply significant to more than a
dozen Indigenous tribes, nations and tribal associations, with the Baaj
Nwaavjo I’tah Kukveni Grand Canyon National Monument permanently
protecting 1.1 million acres in the Colorado River Basin and the
countless natural, cultural, and historical resources found within it.”
\[[Statement](https://www.tpl.org/media-room/trust-for-public-land-applauds-biden-administrations-proclamation-of-baaj-nwaavjo-itah-kukveni-grand-canyon-national-monument),
8/8/23\]  
  
**Lauren Bogard, Director of Campaigns, Center for Western Priorities:**
“The Grand Canyon is one of the most iconic and widely recognized
natural features in the world, drawing millions of visitors each year to
marvel at its grandeur and appreciate the winding path of the Colorado
River through its canyons. What is less well known is the human history
of the Indigenous people who trace their ancestral roots to this area
and want to see this sacred landscape protected from the threat of
uranium mining. The establishment of this monument is driven by a large
group of Tribes and it is both timely and critical that their narrative
be a central part of the story of what makes this area magnificent and
worthy of greater protection and respect.”
\[[Statement](https://westernpriorities.org/2023/08/statement-on-president-bidens-expected-designation-of-the-baaj-nwaavjo-itah-kukveni-grand-canyon-national-monument/),
8/8/23\]  
  
**Ellen Montgomery, Public Lands Campaign Director, Environment
America:**  
“This is a grand day for the Grand Canyon region. Thanks to the Grand
Canyon Tribal Coalition, this critical region and our most precious
resource, the water that flows into the Colorado River, are protected
for future generations. From the soaring bald eagles and California
condors to the gila monsters and desert tortoises, hundreds of species
are now safer from the toxic pollution that comes with uranium mining
and other dangerous development. President Biden is making good on his
pledge to protect more nature and we’re celebrating this new monument.”
[\[Statement](https://environmentamerica.org/center/media-center/statement-president-biden-protects-grand-canyon-from-uranium-mining/),
8/8/23\]

**Blaine Miller-McFeeley, Senior Legislative Representative,
Earthjustice:** “This is an historic moment for the Tribes that hold
such deep cultural connections to the lands surrounding the Grand Canyon
and every American who will now be able to enjoy this region in
perpetuity. Not only does this designation protect the vast cultural and
natural resources significant to the Tribes, it also protects the
threatened Colorado River watershed and its abundant biodiversity..”
\[[Statement](https://earthjustice.org/press/2023/president-biden-to-designate-baaj-nwaavjo-itah-kukveni-ancestral-footprints-of-the-grand-canyon-national-monument),
8/8/23\]

**John Gale, Vice President of Policy and Government Relations,
Backcountry Hunters and Anglers:** “Today’s announcement marks a win for
millions of Americans, including Tribal members, Arizonans, and hunters
and anglers, who have for years advocated for the long-term conservation
of the unique landscapes, pristine waterways, cultural values and vital
fish and wildlife habitat in the Grand Canyon region. We offer our
thanks to the Biden administration for heeding our collective calls, and
we are grateful to the voices of many, in particular the Grand Canyon
Tribal Coalition, who set us on a path toward the victory we now have
attained.”
\[[Statement](https://www.backcountryhunters.org/administration_designates_grand_canyon_monument),
8/8/23\]

**Nicole Gentile, Senior Director of Conservation, Center for American
Progress:** “…This move provides permanent protections that will
conserve valuable U.S. landscapes for generations to come. It honors
long-standing connections of the Havasupai and Hopi Tribes while
protecting one of the most ecologically significant areas left in the
West. President Biden continues to build on his legacy of equitable
conservation and his historic promise to conserve 30 percent of U.S.
lands and waters by 2030.”
\[[Statement](https://www.americanprogress.org/press/statement-caps-nicole-gentile-lauds-designation-of-baaj-nwaavjo-itah-kukveni-grand-canyon-national-monument/),
8/8/23\]

**Mike Murray, Chair, Coalition to Protect America’s National Parks**:
“Today, we join the Grand Canyon Tribal Coalition and a strong community
of supporters to celebrate President Biden’s designation of the Baaj
Nwaavjo I’tah Kukveni – Ancestral Footprints of the Grand Canyon
National Monument. This new national monument is home to critical
natural and cultural resources, and numerous Tribes maintain cultural
connections to these ancestral lands..”
\[[Statement](https://protectnps.org/2023/08/08/coalition-celebrates-the-designation-of-baaj-nwaavjo-itah-kukveni-ancestral-footprints-of-the-grand-canyon-national-monument/),
8/8/23\]

**Gene Karpinski, President, League of Conservation Voters:** “Thanks to
President Biden, Secretaries Haaland and Vilsack, the Grand Canyon
Tribal Coalition, and local leaders and advocates, the iconic Grand
Canyon region is now permanently protected. In addition to helping to
preserve the stories, histories, and sacred sites of the Havasupai,
Hualapai, Hopi, and Navajo people, this new monument helps protect a
vital source of clean drinking water in the Southwest and will create
jobs in the outdoor recreation economy. President Biden is building an
incredible conservation record by working with local communities and
Tribal Nations, and we look forward to working together to strengthen
protections for more parks, lands, and waters.”
\[[Statement](https://www.lcv.org/media-center/lcv-and-chispa-az-celebrate-president-bidens-baaj-nwaavjo-itah-kukveni-ancestral-footprints-of-the-grand-canyon-national-monument-designation/),
8/8/2023\]

**Chris Hill, Chief Conservation Officer, Sierra Club:** “The Grand
Canyon region has had spiritual, cultural, and ecological significance
since time immemorial, and today’s announcement ensures these lands will
be protected for generations to come…Today, we celebrate President
Biden’s protection of this treasured place, and we urge him to continue
to build his monumental legacy by protecting more of the lands and
waters that we hold so dear.”
\[[Statement](https://www.sierraclub.org/press-releases/2023/08/sierra-club-celebrates-designation-baaj-nwaavjo-i-tah-kukveni-ancestral),
8/8/2023\]

**Brian Sybert, Executive Director, Conservation Lands Foundation**: “We
celebrate President Biden’s use of the Antiquities Act to designate a
new monument and unit to the National Conservation Lands that honors
requests from a dozen Tribal Nations; local elected officials such as
Rep. Raul Grijalva; and business and community leaders in Arizona and
throughout the country..”
\[[Statement](https://www.conservationlands.org/president_biden_designates_the_baaj_nwaavjo_i_tah_kukveni_ancestral_footprints_of_the_grand_canyon_national_monument),
8/8/23\]

**Chris Kuzdas, Senior Water Program Manager, Environmental Defense
Fund:** “EDF is thrilled to see President Biden designate the Baaj
Nwaavjo I’tah Kukveni Grand Canyon National Monument. The new monument
will protect nearly a million acres of public lands from new mining,
permanently stopping any new uranium mines from operating in the region.
We extend a warm congratulations to the Grand Canyon Tribal Coalition,
and we acknowledge the tribal leaders and others who have fought for
decades to protect their homelands, the Grand Canyon landscape, and its
waters.”
\[[Statement](https://www.edf.org/media/new-national-monument-will-protect-communities-and-ecosystems-northern-arizona),
8/8/23\]

**<u>Faith, Veterans, and Business Leaders  
</u>**  
**Cassandra Carmichael, Executive Director, National Religious
Partnership for the Environment:** “The land of Baaj Nwaavjo I’tah
Kukveni is a sacred, unique part of God’s creation and is now rightfully
protected. In preserving this special part of God’s creation, President
Biden not only safeguards the ecological integrity of the area by
prohibiting dangerous mining activities but recognizes the religious
liberty of Tribal communities.” \[Statement, 8/8/23\]  
  
**Reverend Katie Sexton Wood, Executive Director, Arizona Faith
Network:** “On behalf of the Arizona Faith Network, we are elated by
President Biden’s declaration of the Baaj Nwaavjo I’tah Kukveni –
Ancestral Footprints of the Grand Canyon as a national monument. This
momentous proclamation, eagerly awaited, is a testament to the
unwavering dedication of the Grand Canyon Tribal Coalition,
Representative Grijalva, countless Arizona advocates, and nonprofit
organizations. As representatives of diverse faith traditions, we firmly
believe safeguarding sacred land is fundamental to all spiritual and
religious principles.”
\[[Statement](https://www.arizonafaithnetwork.org/afn-news/2023/8/8/statement-on-the-proclamation-of-baaj-nwaavjo-itah-kukveni-ancestral-footprints-of-the-grand-canyon-national-monument),
8/8/23\]  
  
**Janessa Goldbeck, CEO, Vet Voice Foundation:** “From their first day
in office, the Biden Administration has been committed to operating with
an open door and a focus on listening to community groups and
safe-guarding places sacred to some and important for all. Today’s
designation is another shining example of that commitment and the
administration’s dedication to our nation’s public lands and the goals
laid out in their America the Beautiful agenda. “At least eleven Tribes
maintain cultural connections to the Grand Canyon. Because of its
connection to Native peoples – a group that has the highest per-capita
representation of any in the U.S. Armed Forces – the Grand Canyon, and
the extended area surrounding it, is by default a special place for
veterans and military families.
\[[Statement](https://vvfnd.org/press-releases/vvf-cheers-president-bidens-designation-of-the-baaj-nwaavjo-itah-kukveni-ancestral-footprints-of-the-grand-canyon-national-monument/),
8/8/23\]  
  
**Shoren Brown, Vice President for Public Affairs, The Conservation
Alliance:** “The Conservation Alliance applauds President Biden for
designating the Baaj Nwaavjo I’tah Kukveni – Ancestral Footprints of the
Grand Canyon National Monument…On behalf of The Conservation Alliance
and its coalition of 270 businesses, we thank President Joe Biden,
Representative Raúl Grijalva, and Senator Krysten Sinema for their
efforts to protect public lands. We look forward to continuing to work
alongside.”
\[[Statement](https://conservationalliance.com/2023/08/the-conservation-alliance-and-50-member-companies-applaud-president-biden-for-designating-the-baaj-nwaavjo-itah-kukveni-ancestral-footprints-of-the-grand-canyon-national-monument/),
8/8/23\]

**Ben Steele, Executive Vice President & Chief Customer Officer, REI
Co-op**: “REI Co-op celebrates the tireless advocacy of the Grand Canyon
Tribal Coalition and others who have worked to protect their ancestral
homelands for the benefit of all and applauds the Biden Administration’s
actions to protect this culturally significant recreation destination..”
\[[Statement](https://outdoorindustry.org/press-release/the-conservation-alliance-and-50-member-companies-applaud-president-biden-for-designating-the-baaj-nwaavjo-itah-kukveni-ancestral-footprints-of-the-grand-canyon-national-monument/),
8/8/23\]  
  
**Patagonia:** “This achievement is the result of the hard work of the
Grand Canyon Tribal Coalition and local organizations. Let’s celebrate
this victory and continue to fight for future land protection! Read more
below.”
\[[Tweet,](https://twitter.com/patagonia/status/1689063694779785216)
8/8/23\]  
  
**Kestrel Kunz, Protection Director of Southern Rockies Program,
American Whitewater**: “American Whitewater is pleased to celebrate the
tribally led effort to protect the greater Grand Canyon area in the Baaj
Nwaavjo I’tah Kukveni – Ancestral Footprints of the Grand Canyon
National Monument and today we thank the Biden Administration for
honoring the wishes of tribes, communities and visitors that cherish the
clean water, endangered species, and recreation opportunities within the
National Monument.” \[Statement, 8/8/23\]  
  
**Danny Giovale, Founder, Kahtoola**: “Today, President Joe Biden
announced the designation of a Tribally led proposal to designate
917,618 acres of lands surrounding Grand Canyon National Park as the
Baaj Nwaavjo I’tah Kukveni – Ancestral Footprints of the Grand Canyon
National Monument. This is really something worth celebrating. It marks
a momentous time in history, and we extend our deepest gratitude to the
Grand Canyon Tribal Coalition for boldly leading this effort.”
\[[Statement,](https://outdoorindustry.org/press-release/kahtoola-celebrates-the-designation-of-baaj-nwaavjo-itah-kukveni-ancestral-footprints-of-the-grand-canyon-national-monument/)
8/8/23\]  
  
**Jim Dublinski, Owner, Xplore Outside:** “As a business that values
both the beauty of this land and its indigenous significance, we express
our gratitude for the creation of the Baaj Nwaavjo I’tah Kukveni –
Ancestral Footprints of the Grand Canyon Monument. This monument
protects this iconic landscape, aquifers, wildlife, and cultural values
essential to the greater Grand Canyon Region. Thank you, President
Biden, for taking counsel with tribal leadership to preserve the Baaj
Nwaavjo I’tah Kukveni – Ancestral Footprints of the Grand Canyon
Monument.” \[Statement, 8/8/23\]

*\###*
