---
date: '2023-08-04'
published_time: 2023-08-04 05:47:54-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/08/04/fact-sheet-vice-president-harris-to-announce-support-to-help-historically-underserved-entrepreneurs-tap-into-bidenomics-fueled-small-business-boom/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Vice President Harris to Announce Support to Help Historically\
  \ Underserved Entrepreneurs Tap into Bidenomics-Fueled Small Business\_Boom"
---
 
*During visit to local D.C. small businesses, Vice President Harris will
announce grants to non-profit and community-based organizations from
$125 million Capital Readiness Program to support underserved small
businesses’ access to capital—a key pillar of Bidenomics*  
  
**Today, Vice President Kamala Harris will announce the 43 winners of
the $125 million American Rescue Plan-funded Capital Readiness Program**
(CRP) awards competition, critical funding that will help underserved
entrepreneurs launch and scale their small businesses—a key pillar of
Bidenomics.  
  
 The CRP is the latest American Rescue Plan investment in navigation and
support services for small businesses, building upon the $300 million in
funds already announced or deployed through the Small Business
Administration’s (SBA) Community Navigator Program and the Treasury
Department’s State Small Business Credit Initiative (SSBCI). Under the
Biden-Harris Administration, the United States has seen the strongest
showing for new business applications on record—12.6 million—and [recent
reports](https://eig.org/2023-business-formation-midyear/) show that the
U.S. is continuing that trend in 2023 – a sign of confidence from
entrepreneurs that Bidenomics is working. Vice President Harris will
announce the awards while visiting a local D.C. minority-owned retail
village, Sycamore & Oak, that houses other local small businesses.  
  
**The Capital Readiness Program is the largest-ever direct Federal
investment in small business incubators and accelerators of its kind**.
Administered by the Minority Business Development Agency (MBDA), which
was made permanent and expanded thanks to the President’s Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law, the Capital Readiness Program is also the largest
initiative in the over 50-year history of the MBDA.  
  
The 43 winning organizations – a mix of non-profit and community-based
organizations, private sector entities, and institutions of higher
education located across the country – are forming partnerships to
assist and train underserved entrepreneurs seeking resources, tools, and
support to start or scale their businesses in high-growth, high-wage
industries such as healthcare, climate resilient technology, asset
management, infrastructure, and more.  
  
“President Biden and I firmly believe that for America’s economy to be
strong, America’s small businesses must be strong. I am proud to
announce that we will invest an additional $125 million in small
businesses across our country through a national network of small
business incubators and accelerators,” **said Vice President Kamala
Harris.** “President Biden and I are fighting to ensure that every
entrepreneur in America — no matter who they are or where they live —
can access the capital to start or grow a business, create jobs, and
thrive.”  
Examples of awardees include:

-   Arizona Hispanic Chamber of Commerce Foundation (Phoenix,
    Arizona) is receiving $3 million to deliver an enhanced business
    accelerator and incubator program to help underserved entrepreneurs
    in Arizona, Nevada, and California to access capital – including by
    connecting small businesses with their partners at Raza Development
    Fund, World Bank, and other funding entities, to help secure
    assistance on projects focused on renewable energy, information
    technology, and infrastructure development.  

<!-- -->

-   **Bridgeway Capital (Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania)** is receiving $2
    million to serve at least 340 minority-owned and rural entrepreneurs
    in Pennsylvania, West Virginia, and Ohio. Bridgeway Capital will use
    CRP funds to scale up its cohort-based Regional Investments for
    Social and Equitable Prosperity (RISE UP) business education
    programs to help entrepreneurs build capacity to access
    revenue-generating growth opportunities and the capital needed to
    realize these opportunities.

<!-- -->

-   **The Urban League of Greater Atlanta, Georgia** is receiving $3
    million to deliver incubator and accelerator services through its
    Entrepreneurship Center to historically underserved entrepreneurs
    that are starting or operating enterprises in high-growth industries
    including healthcare, climate-resilient technology, infrastructure,
    and transportation and logistics.

<!-- -->

-   **The Northern Great Lakes Initiative (Marquette, Michigan)** – a
    partnership between a community lender and a small business
    incubator – is receiving $3 million to create a streamlined process
    that will support entrepreneurs in Michigan, with an emphasis on
    West Michigan, from the launch of an idea, through incubation of a
    new business, to capital for growth.

<!-- -->

-   **The Capital Region Minority Supplier Development Council (Silver
    Spring, Maryland)** is receiving $3 million to support its Ingenuity
    Consortium, a regional approach to supporting entrepreneurial
    opportunities for underserved small business owners through a
    collaborative of six Historically Black Colleges and Universities
    and Minority-Serving Institutions—like the University of Maryland
    Global Campus, Bowie State University, Morgan State University, and
    Virginia State University—and six capital access partners.

A full list of CRP award-winners is available
[here](https://www.MBDA.gov/crp).  
  
**Additionally, the Biden-Harris Administration is**
[**announcing**](https://home.treasury.gov/news/press-releases/jy1674)
**the first approvals of awards for up to $58 million to 12 states as
part of the State Small Business Credit Initiative (SSBCI) Technical
Assistance (TA) Grant Program.** In total, the SSBCI TA Grant Program
will provide roughly $200 million to states, territories, and tribal
governments to help small businesses access the historic support for
underserved small businesses included in the American Rescue
Plan—including an unprecedented nearly $10 billion through the Treasury
Department’s SSBCI. SSBCI is expected to directly benefit roughly
100,000 small businesses over the next decade, including underserved
entrepreneurs – providing capital, building ecosystems of opportunity
and entrepreneurship, and creating new jobs and economic opportunity.  
  
Investing in small businesses is at the center of the President and Vice
President’s plan to grow the economy from the middle out and bottom up,
not the top down. Today’s announcement through the Capital Readiness
Program and the SSBCI TA Grant Program are just the latest steps the
Biden-Harris Administration is taking to ensure that small businesses
and entrepreneurs in every community benefit from the small business
boom ushered in under this Administration.  
  
Additional actions the Administration has taken under the President’s
Bidenomics agenda to support small businesses and underserved
entrepreneurs include:  
*<u>Expanding Access to Capital</u>*

-   **Delivering Historic Support to Minority-Supporting Community
    Financial Institutions to Improve Access to Capital for Historically
    Underserved Small Businesses.** **Stemming from funding Vice
    President Harris secured during her time in the Senate,** through
    the competitive Community Development Financial Institutions (CDFI)
    Equitable Recovery Program, Treasury has awarded over $1.7 billion
    in grants to more than 600 CDFIs across the country to support
    lending to small businesses and microenterprises and other community
    investments. Additionally, the Emergency Capital Investment Program
    (ECIP) has distributed nearly $9 billion to CDFIs and Minority
    Deposit Institutions designed to support their provision of loans,
    grants, and forbearance for small businesses and minority-owned
    businesses, especially in low-income and underserved communities.
    Based on preliminary analysis, Treasury projects that investments
    across the entire ECIP portfolio may increase lending in Latino
    communities by nearly $58 billion and in Black communities by up to
    $80 billion over the next decade.

<!-- -->

-   **Making Permanent Programs that Boost Lending to Underserved
    Communities.** In order to address persistent gaps in access to
    capital for small businesses, earlier this year SBA finalized a rule
    allowing more than 100 nonprofit lenders participating in the
    Community Advantage pilot program to secure permanent access to SBA
    loan products. These lenders have a proven track record of higher
    rates of lending to underserved businesses, including Black, Latino,
    women, and veteran-owned businesses.

<!-- -->

-   **Expanding Lending Licenses to Address Capital Access Gaps**. For
    the first time in 40 years, SBA is increasing the number of licenses
    for non-depository lenders that make government-guaranteed loans in
    SBA’s flagship loan program. This action will expand competition
    among lenders and provide more borrowing options for the capital
    that is so critical to small business growth. SBA will award new
    licenses based on lenders’ organizational capacity and their
    capability to fill gaps in the small business lending marketplace,
    including those to new businesses, small-dollar loans, and those to
    traditionally underserved communities.

<!-- -->

-   **Forming the Interagency Community Investment Committee (ICIC).**
    In July of 2022, Vice President Harris announced the formation of
    the Interagency Community Investment Committee (ICIC) chaired by the
    Treasury Department. The ICIC facilitates collaboration and
    operational coordination of federal community investments to
    maximize the impact of federal dollars. This June, they released [an
    Action
    Plan](https://home.treasury.gov/system/files/136/ICIC-Action-Plan-2023.pdf)
    with a slate of new steps to improve the alignment of various
    federal programs and facilitate the flow of more resources into
    underserved rural and urban communities across the country.

<!-- -->

-   **Streamlining and Simplifying Small Business Lending.** SBA is
    modernizing the lending criteria and conditions for SBA’s business
    loan programs and reducing red tape for SBA lenders, which will
    expand the number of credit-worthy business owners who can access an
    affordable loan. SBA is doing this by simplifying standards that
    determine who qualifies for an SBA loan, reducing paperwork required
    of lenders, and increasing lender flexibility for small-dollar
    loans.

<!-- -->

-   **Delivering Historic Support for Small Business Investment in Clean
    Energy Projects.** The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has
    launched the Greenhouse Gas Reduction Fund (GGRF), a $27 billion
    program to mobilize financing and private capital for clean energy
    projects that reduce air pollution. The GGRF will launch a national
    network of nonprofit finance institutions to invest in clean
    technology deployment, with a particular focus in low-income and
    disadvantaged communities, while simultaneously building the
    capacity of community lenders that serve those communities. As a
    result, small business owners will be able to access financing, such
    as below-market interest rate loans, that they may not have been
    able to obtain from traditional banks. Small business owners may
    also be able to receive predevelopment support and technical
    assistance to move early-stage project ideas from the drawing board
    to execution.

   
*<u>Making historic investments in helping small businesses navigate
available resources</u>*

-   **Meeting Small Business Owners Where They Are.** Funded by the
    American Rescue Plan, SBA’s $100 million Community Navigator program
    provides funding to nonprofits, state and local governments,
    Resource Partners, and tribal entities who partner with trusted and
    culturally competent community service providers to close resource,
    capital and educational gaps for small businesses. As of July 2023,
    Community Navigators have helped secure nearly $250 million in
    approved funding for small businesses, trained over 290,000 business
    owners, and conducted 145,000 hours of one-on-one counseling. Last
    year, Federal agencies also hosted events and webinars aimed at
    supporting more equitable contracting opportunities under the
    Bipartisan Infrastructure Law and creating opportunities for key
    stakeholders across the contracting landscape to connect, including
    federal and State DOT officials, prime contractors, and industry.

<!-- -->

-   **Providing dedicated support at MBDA Business Centers to help
    businesses become “contract ready.”**  The Bipartisan Infrastructure
    Law made the MBDA permanent. MBDA also awarded nearly $3 million in
    funding to 26 of its Business Centers to support the hiring of
    federal contract specialists in each Center focused on assisting
    underserved businesses access contracting opportunities, including
    those stemming from Bipartisan Infrastructure Law funding.
    Specialists will provide wide-ranging technical assistance to help
    small businesses, including by facilitating access to capital and by
    coordinating targeted matchmaking between underserved businesses and
    both government acquisition offices and prime contractors.

<!-- -->

-   **Maximizing Federal Agency Resources from the Bipartisan
    Infrastructure Law to Support Small Businesses**. SBA, MBDA, and DOT
    all signed Memorandums of Understanding with each other to help
    small and disadvantaged businesses better access resources, foster
    equity in procurement initiatives, and improve access to capital and
    resources available from the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law.
    Specifically, the MOUs will help small businesses in transportation
    obtain bonds or increase their bonding capacity to compete in
    DOT-funded projects and will make available to DOT stakeholders the
    network of SBA Small Business Investment Company (SBIC)-related
    resources to facilitate access to private capital for small
    businesses pursing BIL contracts.

   
*<u>Leveraging federal spending to support small businesses</u>*

-   **Using Federal Contracting Dollars to Support Small and
    Disadvantaged Businesses.** Recognizing that the federal government
    spends more than $650 billion each year on purchasing goods and
    services, President Biden has directed agencies to use federal
    purchasing power to grow federal contracting with underserved small
    businesses. He set a goal that 15% of federal procurement dollars go
    to small disadvantaged businesses by 2025. Last month, [SBA
    announced](https://www.sba.gov/article/2023/07/18/biden-harris-administration-sets-record-breaking-163-billion-federal-procurement-opportunities-small)
    that the federal government awarded a record $162.9 billion in
    federal contracts to small businesses and a record $69.9 billion of
    that to small disadvantaged businesses.

<!-- -->

-   **Ensuring CHIPS Act Funding Supports Small Businesses.** The
    Administration is ensuring that small businesses benefit from the
    $52.7 billion CHIPS Act. For example, this year the Department of
    Commerce released two funding applications that, among other
    elements, required applicants to outline how they will support
    inclusion of small businesses in their projects. In the fall, an
    additional funding opportunity for projects with capital investments
    below $300 million will be released, which may be of interest to
    small and medium sized businesses.

<!-- -->

-   **Creating Contracting Opportunities in Clean Energy and Energy
    Efficiency.**  In addition to spurring billions in private-sector
    investments that will lower energy costs for small businesses, the
    Inflation Reduction Act includes $200 million for state-based grants
    to train contractors to install home energy efficiency and
    electrification improvements and nearly $9 billion for state-based
    rebate programs energy efficiency and appliance upgrades for
    consumers. These investments will save families money and create
    jobs and opportunity in the home contracting sector, which contains
    hundreds of thousands of small businesses.
-   **Leveling the Playing Field for Innovative Small Businesses.** The
    Inflation Reduction Act doubled the Research and Development (R&D)
    Tax Credit to $500,000 for small businesses, leveling the playing
    field and bolstering the ability for small businesses to innovate
    and commercialize to solve global problems.

<!-- -->

-   **Improving Federal Certifications for Small Businesses.** The
    Department of Transportation (DOT) has proposed a rule to modernize
    the Disadvantaged Business Enterprise (DBE) and Airport Concession
    DBE (ACDBE) programs, including, among other things, increasing the
    net worth threshold for DBEs so that minority- and women-owned
    businesses do not “graduate out” of the DBE program once they start
    achieving modest success, as well as simplifying eligibility
    certification requirements and the interstate certification process.
    Also, in January, SBA launched its new VetCert platform, featuring
    customer experience improvements for Veteran entrepreneurs and
    business owners seeking certification.

<!-- -->

-   **Expanding Rural Opportunities. **The Inflation Reduction Act
    significantly expands the Rural Energy for America Program, which
    supports rural small businesses and agricultural producers with
    clean energy and energy efficiency upgrades. The U.S. Department of
    Agriculture estimates that this expansion will reach more than
    41,500 small businesses and farms. The Act also provides more than
    $9 billion to assist rural electric cooperatives, which serve more
    than 21 million businesses, homes, and farms, in boosting
    resilience, reliability, and affordability, including through clean
    energy projects.

<!-- -->

-   **Cutting Energy Costs for Small Businesses**. The Inflation
    Reduction Act includes a number of provisions that will save small
    business owners money on energy costs including:
    -   A tax credit that covers 30% of the cost of switching over to
        low-cost solar power – lowering operating costs and protecting
        against the volatile energy prices that are currently squeezing
        small businesses.
    -   A tax deduction of up to $5 per square foot in commercial
        buildings to support energy efficiency improvements that deliver
        lower utility bills.
    -   A tax credit of up to $7,500 for purchasing clean commercial
        vehicles up to 14,000 lbs in weight, like vans and pick-up
        trucks, or up to $40,000 for purchasing clean heavy-duty
        vehicles, which will help small businesses save on fuel and
        operating costs.

  
The 43 entities will complete the final stages of the process necessary
for their award to be distributed in the coming weeks.

\###
