---
date: '2023-08-09'
modified_time: 2023-08-08 17:41:25-04:00
published_time: 2023-08-09 13:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/08/09/biden-harris-administration-launches-artificial-intelligence-cyber-challenge-to-protect-americas-critical-software/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Launches Artificial Intelligence Cyber Challenge\
  \ to Protect America\u2019s Critical\_Software"
---
 
*Several leading AI companies – Anthropic, Google, Microsoft, and OpenAI
– to partner with DARPA in major competition to make software more
secure*

The Biden-Harris Administration today launched a major two-year
competition that will use artificial intelligence (AI) to protect the
United States’ most important software, such as code that helps run the
internet and our critical infrastructure.  The “[AI Cyber
Challenge](http://aicyberchallenge.com/)” (AIxCC) will challenge
competitors across the United States, to identify and fix software
vulnerabilities using AI. Led by the Defense Advanced Research Projects
Agency (DARPA), this competition will include collaboration with several
top AI companies – Anthropic, Google, Microsoft, and OpenAI – who are
lending their expertise and making their cutting-edge technology
available for this challenge. This competition, which will feature
almost $20 million in prizes, will drive the creation of new
technologies to rapidly improve the security of computer code, one of
cybersecurity’s most pressing challenges. It marks the latest step by
the Biden-Harris Administration to ensure the responsible advancement of
emerging technologies and protect Americans.  
  
The Biden-Harris Administration announced AIxCC at the Black Hat USA
Conference in Las Vegas, Nevada, the nation’s largest hacking
conference, which for decades has produced many cybersecurity
innovations. By finding and fixing vulnerabilities in an automated and
scalable way, AIxCC fits into this tradition. It will demonstrate the
potential benefits of AI to help secure software used across the
internet and throughout society, from the electric grids that power
America to the transportation systems that drive daily life.  
  
DARPA will host an open competition in which the competitor that best
secures vital software will win millions of dollars in prizes. AI
companies will make their cutting-edge technology—some of the most
powerful AI systems in the world—available for competitors to use in
designing new cybersecurity solutions. To ensure broad participation and
a level playing field for AIxCC, DARPA will also make available $7
million to small businesses who want to compete.  
  
Teams will participate in a qualifying event in Spring 2024, where the
top scoring teams (up to 20) will be invited to participate in the
semifinal competition at DEF CON 2024, one of the world’s top
cybersecurity conferences. Of these, the top scoring teams (up to five)
will receive monetary prizes and continue to the final phase of the
competition, to be held at DEF CON 2025. The top three scoring
competitors in the final competition will receive additional monetary
prizes.  
  
The top competitors will make a meaningful difference in cybersecurity
for America and the world. The Open Source Security Foundation
(OpenSSF), a project of the Linux Foundation, will serve as a challenge
advisor. It will also help ensure that the winning software code is put
to use right away protecting America’s most vital software and keeping
the American people safe.  
  
Today’s announcement is part of a broader commitment by the Biden-Harris
Administration to ensure that the power of AI is harnessed to address
the nation’s great challenges, and that AI is developed safely and
responsibly to protect Americans from harm and discrimination. Last
month, the Biden-Harris Administration announced it had
secured [voluntary
commitments](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/07/21/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-secures-voluntary-commitments-from-leading-artificial-intelligence-companies-to-manage-the-risks-posed-by-ai/) from
seven leading AI companies to manage the risks posed by the technology.
Earlier this year, the Administration announced a commitment from
several AI companies to participate in an independent, public evaluation
of large language models (LLMs)—consistent with responsible disclosure
principles—at DEF CON 2023. This exercise, which starts later this week
and is the first-ever public assessment of multiple LLMs, will help
advance safer, more secure and more transparent AI development.  
  
In addition, the Biden-Harris Administration is currently developing an
executive order and will pursue bipartisan legislation to help America
lead the way in responsible AI innovation.

\###
