---
date: '2023-08-11'
modified_time: 2023-08-11 11:43:00-04:00
published_time: 2023-08-11 12:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/08/11/president-biden-announces-c-kirabo-jackson-to-the-council-of-economic-advisers/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Announces C. Kirabo Jackson to the Council of Economic\_\
  Advisers"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Biden announced his intent to appoint C.
Kirabo Jackson to be a Member of the Council of Economic Advisers:

**C. Kirabo Jackson, Member of the Council of Economic Advisers**

C. Kirabo Jackson is the Abraham Harris Professor of Education and
Social Policy at Northwestern University. He is also a Professor of
Economics, a Fellow at the Institute for Policy Research, and a Faculty
Research Fellow at the National Bureau of Economic Research.

Currently, Jackson serves as the Editor-In-Chief of the *American
Economic Journal: Economic Policy*. He was previously Co-Editor for the
*American Economic Journal: Economic Policy* and the *Journal of Human
Resources*. Jackson earned his Bachelor’s in Ethics, Politics, and
Economics from Yale University, and obtained his Ph.D. in Economics from
Harvard University. His research interests include labor economics,
public finance, and applied econometrics, with a focus on the economics
of education. His research has explored the role of teachers in the K-12
system, the causal impact of public-school spending on students, methods
to measure impacts on students’ socio-emotional skills, and other
education-related subjects.

His work has been published in the highest-impact economics journals,
including the *Quarterly Journal of Economics*, the *Journal of
Political Economy*, the *Review of Economic Studies*, the *American
Economic Review: Insights*, the *Review of Economics and Statistics*,
the *American Economic Journal: Economic Policy, and *the* American
Economic Journal: Applied Economics*. His research findings have
garnered attention from numerous media outlets, including the *New York
Times*, the *Wall Street Journal*, the *Washington Post*, *Bloomberg*,
and others.

In 2020, Jackson was elected to the National Academy of Education and
received the David N. Kershaw Award from the Association for Public
Policy Analysis and Management in recognition of his contributions to
the field of public policy analysis and management. In 2022, Jackson was
elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, an honor that
celebrates excellence and leadership across various disciplines and
practices.

\###
