---
date: '2023-08-10'
modified_time: 2023-08-09 23:34:06-04:00
published_time: 2023-08-10 05:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/08/10/fact-sheet-in-first-year-president-bidens-bipartisan-pact-act-delivers-care-for-veterans-in-all-50-states-and-u-s-territories-and-advances-unity-agenda/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: In First Year, President\_Biden\u2019s Bipartisan PACT Act Delivers\
  \ Care for Veterans in all 50 States and U.S. Territories and Advances Unity\_Agenda"
---
 
One year ago today, President Biden signed the landmark bipartisan
Sergeant First Class Heath Robinson Honoring our Promise to Address
Comprehensive Toxics (PACT) Act into law, enacting the most significant
expansion of benefits and services for toxic exposed veterans in more
than 30 years.  Named in honor of Sergeant First Class Heath Robinson, a
decorated combat medic who died from a rare form of lung cancer, this
historic legislation is delivering timely benefits and services to
veterans—across all generations—who have been impacted by toxic
exposures while serving our country.  
  
President Biden believes that our nation has a sacred obligation to
properly prepare and equip the troops we send into harm’s way – and to
care for them and their families when they return home. Sometimes
military service can result in increased health risks for our veterans,
and some injuries and illnesses like asthma, cancer, and others can take
years to manifest. These realities can make it difficult for veterans to
establish a direct connection between their service and disabilities
resulting from military environmental exposures such as burn pits – a
necessary step to ensure they receive the health care they earned. The
PACT Act eliminates these barriers and ensures veterans get the care and
services they deserve.  
  
President Biden has made clear that supporting our veterans is a
commitment that unites all Americans – Democrats, Republicans, and
Independents — and it’s why he made supporting our veterans a core
element of his Unity Agenda. Today, on the anniversary of the signing of
the PACT Act, the President will join veterans and their families at the
George E. Wahlen Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Center in Salt
Lake City, Utah, to discuss how this historic, bipartisan legislation
has delivered lifesaving health care and benefits to more than 340,000
veterans and survivors.  
  
Today, the Biden-Harris administration will also release new national
and state-by-state data on PACT Act claims, which have been processed at
record rates by the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). **In the past
year, the Administration has helped veterans in [every state and
territory](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/08/PACT-Act-Geographic-Table-8.8-sk-003.pdf) receive
the services and care they deserve by:**

-   **Screening veterans for toxic exposures:** More than 4.1 million
    veterans have received free screenings for toxic exposures from VA
    under the PACT Act – a critical step to catching and treating
    potentially life-threatening health conditions as early as
    possible.  
     
-   **Delivering benefits to veterans and their survivors: **Over the
    past year, VA has delivered more than $1.85 billion in earned PACT
    Act-related benefits to veterans and their survivors. VA is
    delivering these benefits to veterans at the fastest rate in
    history, processing 1.65 million total claims thus far in this
    fiscal year – 16% more year-to-date than the previous all-time
    record. In total, VA has processed 458,659 PACT Act claims since
    August 10, 2022.  
     
-   **Prioritizing veterans with cancer: **As a part of President
    Biden’s Cancer Moonshot, VA has [prioritized claims
    processing](https://news.va.gov/press-room/va-will-prioritize-delivering-benefits-to-veterans-with-cancer-under-pact-act/) for
    veterans with cancer – delivering nearly $215 million in PACT Act
    benefits to veterans with cancer. VA also prioritizes claims for
    veterans with terminal illnesses and veterans experiencing
    homelessness.  
     
-   **Spreading the word to veterans and their survivors:** Thanks to
    the PACT Act outreach campaign, veterans and survivors are applying
    for their earned benefits at record rates. In this fiscal year,
    veterans and survivors have submitted 1.95 million total claims –
    the most in VA history and a 37% increase over last year. This
    includes 843,448 PACT Act-specific claims applications.  
     
-   **Increasing VA’s capacity to serve veterans: **Thanks to new PACT
    Act authorities, VA has been able to [expand its
    workforce](https://news.va.gov/120386/va-releases-new-workforce-dashboard/) in
    order to serve veterans as quickly and effectively as possible. In
    total, both the Veterans Health Administration and the Veterans
    Benefits administration have achieved their highest growth rates in
    20 years — and the Veterans Benefits Administration is now above
    29,000 employees for the first time in history.  
     
-   **Eliminating benefits delays for veterans:** Instead of phasing in
    conditions over several years (as outlined in the legislation), the
    Biden-Harris Administration decided to make
    all [conditions](http://www.va.gov/PACT) in the PACT Act presumptive
    for benefits as of August 10, 2022, the day the bill was signed into
    law. This decision expedited the timeline for veterans to receive
    their earned care and benefits by several years.

**These historic efforts to address military toxic exposures build on
the Biden-Harris Administration’s recent work to support our nation’s
veterans**

-   **Ending veteran homelessness**. No one should be homeless in this
    country, especially not those who served it. Last year, VA found
    permanent housing for over 40,000 veterans and set a goal to
    permanently house at least 38,000 veterans this year. And, President
    Biden is proposing to triple the number of rental assistance
    vouchers for extremely low-income veterans. These efforts are
    leading to results: from 2020 to 2022, there was an [11 percent
    decline](https://news.va.gov/110192/homelessness-decreased-11-last-two-years/) in
    veteran homelessness.  
     
-   **Investing in mental health & suicide prevention efforts.** Since
    releasing a comprehensive public health strategy for [reducing
    military and
    veteran](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/11/Military-and-Veteran-Suicide-Prevention-Strategy.pdf) suicide,
    the Biden-Harris Administration has continued to improve mental
    health care and suicide prevention efforts for veterans. VA is doing
    everything it can, including expanding mental health screenings,
    increasing access to legal and financial support, and hiring more
    mental health professionals, to help veterans get the help they
    need. For veterans and family members who may be experiencing a
    crisis, the [Veterans Crisis
    Line](https://www.va.gov/southeast-louisiana-health-care/news-releases/veterans-crisis-line-dial-988-then-press-1/) is
    available 24/7 by dialing 988 and then pressing 1.

<!-- -->

-   **Securing jobs for our veterans. **Roughly 200,000 service members
    transition from the military each year and the Biden-Harris
    Administration is committed to providing them and their spouses the
    support they need to find good paying jobs. This includes helping
    connect veterans to registered apprentice programs, so they can
    transfer the skills they learned in the military. This year, VA will
    launch a [transition assistance grant
    program](https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2023/07/05/2023-13819/veteran-and-spouse-transitional-assistance-grant-program#:~:text=Section%204304%20of%20the%20Act%2C%20codified%20at%2038,Armed%20Forces%2C%20and%20spouses%20of%20such%20former%20members.) for
    organizations that help veterans and their spouses find jobs when
    they leave the military.  
     
-   **Supporting veterans and caregivers.** This spring, President Biden
    signed an [Executive
    Order](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/04/18/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-most-sweeping-set-of-executive-actions-to-improve-care-in-history/) directing
    the VA to cut red tape and give veterans who need assistance at home
    more flexibility to pick their own caregivers. The order also
    directed expansion of caregiver support programs, including
    launching a new initiative to deliver mental health services for
    caregivers. And, earlier this summer, President Biden went to North
    Carolina and signed an Executive Order at Fort Liberty.
    The [Executive
    Order](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/06/09/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-sweeping-executive-actions-to-strengthen-economic-opportunity-for-military-and-veteran-spouses-caregivers-and-survivors/) calls
    for the most comprehensive set of administrative actions in our
    nation’s history to support the economic security of military and
    veteran spouses, caregivers, and survivors.

If you are a veteran, visit [www.va.gov/PACT](http://www.va.gov/PACT) or
go to your local VA hospital to see if you are eligible for PACT Act
benefits and services.  
  
For a state-by-state breakdown of PACT Act data,
click [here](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/08/PACT-Act-Geographic-Table-8.8-sk-003.pdf).

\###
