---
date: '2023-08-08'
modified_time: 2023-08-08 08:42:42-04:00
published_time: 2023-08-08 09:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/08/08/fact-sheet-vice-president-harris-announces-action-to-raise-wage-standards-over-time-for-more-than-one-million-construction-workers/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Vice President Harris Announces Action to Raise Wage Standards\
  \ Over Time For More Than One Million Construction\_Workers"
---
 
***New action combines two pillars of Bidenomics by ensuring that
infrastructure investments in America lead to good-paying,
family-sustaining jobs.***

Today, Vice President Kamala Harris is announcing that the Labor
Department (DOL) will publish a rule that advances the Administration’s
economic vision to build the economy from the bottom up and middle out –
not the top down – by ensuring investments in America lead to jobs where
construction workers are paid fairly, including the 84% of who don’t
have a college degree. The rule, which advances President Biden’s
Executive Order 14008, will mean thousands of extra dollars per year in
workers’ pockets to help put a down payment on a home, save for
retirement, or simply have more breathing room.  
  
Vice President Harris, Chair of the White House Task Force on Worker
Organizing and Empowerment, is making the announcement in Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania alongside Acting Secretary of Labor Julie Su.  
  
The rule will raise wage standards of construction workers by updating
prevailing wage regulations issued under the Davis-Bacon and Related
Acts, which require payment of locally prevailing wages and fringe
benefits to more than one million construction workers delivering $200
billion of federally funded or assisted construction projects. These
numbers will continue to grow given that nearly all of the significant
construction programs contained in President Biden’s Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law, CHIPS and Science Act, and Inflation Reduction Act
require or strongly incentivize the use of Davis-Bacon prevailing
wages.  
  
The Davis-Bacon prevailing wage regulations have not been
comprehensively updated in more than 40 years, leaving many workers paid
less than intended by the Act – and less than they deserve. In light of
the new jobs created by these once-in-a generation infrastructure
investments, DOL’s new rules are more important than ever to ensure fair
wages for workers. In addition to ensuring good jobs for construction
workers, the new rule will help attract the workforce needed to produce
quality projects funded by the historic legislation and will protect
existing wage standards in local communities.  
  
Specifically, DOL’s new rule to update Davis-Bacon prevailing wage
regulations:  
  
• Restores the DOL’s definition of “prevailing wage” used for nearly 50
years before it was upended by the Reagan administration. It will make
the prevailing wage equivalent to the wage paid to at least 30% of
workers, rather than 50% of workers, in a given trade in a locality.
Prior to the new rule, if the majority of workers in a given trade and
locality did not earn a single wage rate, then the prevailing wage was
determined by the average wage in a given trade in a locality.  
  
This average can pull down the prevailing wage if some employers pay
very little. Setting the prevailing wage to the wage paid to at least
30% of workers makes it more likely that workers are paid a true
prevailing wage.  
  
• Makes it easier keep prevailing wages up to date – allowing them to
keep up with wage growth. DOL must currently periodically survey
contractors and other parties to update prevailing wage rates, which is
resource intensive. The final rule makes this process easier by giving
DOL’s Wage and Hour Administrator the express authority to adopt
prevailing wages determined by state and local governments, issue wage
determinations for labor classifications where insufficient data was
received through the wage survey process, and update outdated wage
rates.  
  
• Strengthens DOL enforcement. The rule will add a new anti-retaliation
provision in contract clauses to protect workers who raise concerns from
being fired or punished. It also strengthens DOL’s ability to withhold
money from a contractor in order to pay employees their lost wages.  
  
DOL is announcing this rule as inflation has fallen by two-thirds over
the last year, and independent analysts have credited infrastructure
investments with keeping our economy strong during that period. Since
last year, inflation-adjusted wages are up 1.6% for all production and
nonsupervisory workers (the 80% of workers who are not managers), 2.4%
for construction nonsupervisory workers, and 2.0% for workers without a
college degree. This rule keeps up that momentum by continuing to invest
in America’s workers.

\###
