---
date: '2023-08-30'
modified_time: 2023-08-30 21:22:20-04:00
published_time: 2023-08-30 21:22:10-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/08/30/statement-by-president-biden-on-the-second-anniversary-of-ending-the-afghanistan-war/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Statement from President\_Biden on the Second Anniversary of Ending the Afghanistan\_\
  War"
---
 
Two years ago, the United States ended nearly two decades of war in
Afghanistan— the longest war in American history.

Today, we pause to remember the selfless service of generations of brave
women and men over the course of the conflict—who, time and time again,
sacrificed their own safety and security for that of their fellow
Americans. That includes the 2,461 U.S. service members who made the
ultimate sacrifice, and 20,744 of their brother-and-sisters-in-arms who
were wounded in action. These servicemembers dared all, risked all, and
gave all to our nation. We owe them and their families a debt we can
never fully repay.

I remain forever grateful to the military members, diplomats,
intelligence professionals, and development specialists who not only
worked together to advance the United States’ Afghan mission for two
decades—but who also conducted our withdrawal with the same resolve and
bravery that defined U.S. service in Afghanistan. Together, they helped
evacuate approximately 120,000 people in one of the largest airlifts in
history. And every day since, they have skillfully used every military,
diplomatic, and intelligence resource available to continue to protect
our homeland from terrorist threats in Afghanistan and around the world.
We have demonstrated that we do not need a permanent troop presence on
the ground in harm’s way to take action against terrorists and those who
wish to do us harm.

Finally—I am proud that our nation has welcomed more than 117,000 Afghan
newcomers. I am thankful for the work of our veterans and fellow
Americans who remained relentless advocates for our Afghan allies and I
am grateful for the generosity of state and local governments and our
resettlement partners who continue to welcome them into their
communities. We will also continue to support the Afghan people, and we
are proud to be the largest single donor of humanitarian assistance in
Afghanistan.

Just as they contributed to our mission in Afghanistan for twenty years,
our Afghan allies are now making vast contributions across our nation.
And, just as they stood with us, I remain committed to standing with
them—including urging Congress to pass the Afghan Adjustment Act so we
can provide a pathway to permanent legal status for our Afghan friends
and neighbors.

Let us continue to meet our sacred obligation to our servicemembers,
veterans, and their families, caregivers, and survivors—who gave so much
over so many years in Afghanistan. Let us continue to do right by our
Afghan partners who also served and sacrificed. And, let us continue to
honor our fallen warriors and their families by continuing on their work
to secure and defend our nation—together.

\###
