---
date: '2023-08-18'
published_time: 2023-08-18 14:55:14-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/08/18/the-spirit-of-camp-david-joint-statement-of-japan-the-republic-of-korea-and-the-united-states/
tags: statements-releases
title: "The Spirit of Camp David: Joint Statement of Japan, the Republic of Korea,\
  \ and the United\_States"
---
 
We, the leaders of Japan, the Republic of Korea (ROK), and the United
States, convened at Camp David to inaugurate a new era of trilateral
partnership. We do so at a time of unparalleled opportunity for our
countries and our citizens, and at a hinge point of history, when
geopolitical competition, the climate crisis, Russia’s war of aggression
against Ukraine, and nuclear provocations test us. This is a moment that
requires unity and coordinated action from true partners, and it is a
moment we intend to meet, together. Japan, the Republic of Korea, and
the United States are determined to align our collective efforts because
we believe our trilateral partnership advances the security and
prosperity of all our people, the region, and the world. In this spirit,
Pre­sident Biden commended President Yoon and Prime Minister Kishida for
their courageous leadership in transforming relations between Japan and
the ROK. With the renewed bonds of friendship—and girded by the ironclad
U.S.-Japan and U.S.-ROK alliances—each of our bilateral relationships is
now stronger than ever. So too is our trilateral relationship.

On this historic occasion, we commit to expand our cooperation
trilaterally and raise our shared ambition to a new horizon, across
domains and across the Indo-Pacific and beyond. We will strengthen our
economies, provide resilience and prosperity, support the free and open
international order based on the rule of law, and bolster regional and
global peace and security, especially as current and incoming members of
the United Nations Security Council (UNSC). We will strengthen our
coordination on promoting democracy and protecting human rights. And we
will enhance strategic coordination between the U.S.-Japan and U.S.-ROK
alliances and bring our trilateral security cooperation to new heights.
As we embark together in this new era, our shared values will be our
guide and a free and open Indo-Pacific, in which our half-billion people
are safe and prosperous, will be our collective purpose.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

Today, we declare openly that we are united in a common purpose to
strengthen our shared region. Our mandate is to ensure Japan, the
Republic of Korea, and the United States are aligned in our objectives
and in our actions, generating the common capacity required to ensure
that the Indo-Pacific is thriving, connected, resilient, stable, and
secure. Ours is a partnership built not just for our people but for the
entire Indo-Pacific.

We announce our governments’ commitment to consult with each other in an
expeditious manner to coordinate our responses to regional challenges,
provocations, and threats that affect our collective interests and
security. Through these consultations we intend to share information,
align our messaging, and coordinate response actions. To this end we
will improve our trilateral communication mechanism to facilitate
regular and timely communication between our countries, including our
national leadership. We will hold trilateral meetings between our
leaders, foreign ministers, defense ministers, and national security
advisors at least annually, complementing existing trilateral meetings
between our respective foreign and defense ministries. We will also hold
the first trilateral meeting between our finance ministers as well as
launch a new commerce and industry ministers track that will meet
annually. We will also launch an annual Trilateral Indo-Pacific Dialogue
to coordinate implementation of our Indo-Pacific approaches and to
continually identify new areas for common action. Recognizing the
increased threat posed by foreign information manipulation and misuse of
surveillance technology, we will also discuss ways to coordinate our
efforts to counter disinformation. We welcome the trilateral development
policy dialogue planned in October to advance concrete discussions for
deepening development policy coordination. We are resolute in our
determination to uphold regional security, strengthen Indo-Pacific
engagement, and promote common prosperity.

We wholeheartedly reaffirm ASEAN centrality and unity and our support
for the ASEAN-led regional architecture. We are committed to working
closely with ASEAN partners to support robust implementation and
mainstreaming of the ASEAN Outlook on the Indo-Pacific. We are
collectively working to support sustainable energy and promoting water
security and climate resilience in the Mekong River Basin. We reaffirm,
too, our support of Pacific Island countries and intend to work in
genuine partnership with the Pacific in a transparent and effective
manner, consistent with the Pacific Way, that strengthens individual
countries and the Pacific region. We plan to coordinate regional
capacity-building efforts to ASEAN and Pacific Island countries to
ensure that they are mutually reinforcing and maximally beneficial to
our valued partners, including through capacity building efforts in
cybersecurity and financial integrity and our new Trilateral Maritime
Security Cooperation Framework.

We share concerns about actions inconsistent with the rules-based
international order, which undermine regional peace and prosperity.
Recalling the publicly announced position of each of our countries
regarding the dangerous and aggressive behavior supporting unlawful
maritime claims that we have recently witnessed by the People’s Republic
of China (PRC) in the South China Sea, we strongly oppose any unilateral
attempts to change the status quo in the waters of the Indo-Pacific. In
particular, we steadfastly oppose the militarization of reclaimed
features; the dangerous use of coast guard and maritime militia vessels;
and coercive activities. In addition, we are concerned about illegal,
unreported, and unregulated fishing. We reiterate our firm commitment to
international law, including the freedom of navigation and overflight,
as reflected in the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS). The
July 2016 award in the South China Sea arbitration sets out the legal
basis for the peaceful resolution of maritime conflicts between the
parties to that proceeding. We reaffirm the importance of peace and
stability across the Taiwan Strait as an indispensable element of
security and prosperity in the international community. There is no
change in our basic positions on Taiwan, and we call for a peaceful
resolution of cross-Strait issues.

Furthermore, we reaffirm our commitment to the complete denuclearization
of the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea (DPRK) in accordance with
relevant UNSC resolutions and urge the DPRK to abandon its nuclear and
ballistic missile programs. We call on all UN Member States to fully
implement all relevant UNSC resolutions. We strongly condemn the DPRK’s
unprecedented number of ballistic missile launches, including multiple
intercontinental ballistic missile (ICBM) launches and conventional
military actions that pose a grave threat to peace and security on the
Korean Peninsula and beyond. We express concern regarding the DPRK’s
illicit cyber activities that fund its unlawful WMD and ballistic
missile programs. We announce the establishment of a new trilateral
working group to drive our cooperation, including with the international
community, to combat DPRK cyber threats and block its cyber-enabled
sanctions evasion. Japan, the ROK, and the United States remain
committed to reestablishing dialogue with the DPRK with no
preconditions. We also commit to strengthening cooperation to promote
respect for human rights in the DPRK and reaffirm a shared commitment to
the immediate resolution of the issues of abductees, detainees, and
unrepatriated prisoners of war. We express support for the goal of the
ROK’s Audacious Initiative and support a unified Korean Peninsula that
is free and at peace.

The United States unequivocally reaffirms that its extended deterrence
commitments to both Japan and the ROK are ironclad and backed by the
full range of U.S. capabilities. Our three countries announce today that
we intend to hold annual, named, multi-domain trilateral exercises on a
regular basis to enhance our coordinated capabilities and cooperation.
In mid-August, our three countries conducted a maritime ballistic
missile defense warning test for the real-time sharing of missile
warning data to demonstrate our ability to deter and respond to the
DPRK’s advancing nuclear and missile threats more effectively. By the
end of 2023, we intend to operationalize our sharing of missile warning
data on the DPRK in real-time in fulfillment of commitments reflected in
the November 2022 Phnom Penh Statement, and our countries have taken
initial steps to test our technical capabilities for real-time sharing
of missile warning data. We are committed to pursuing enhanced ballistic
missile defense cooperation to counter DPRK nuclear and missile threats.
We reaffirm that achieving a world without nuclear weapons is a common
goal for the international community, and we continue to make every
effort to ensure that nuclear weapons are never used again.

Even as we deepen our security partnership, we will also maintain focus
on building robust cooperation in the economic security and technology
spheres, leveraging the unique capabilities that each of our countries
brings to bear. In implementing our commitments in the Phnom Penh
Statement, our national security teams have met twice under the auspices
of the Trilateral Economic Security Dialogue to advance our shared
objectives. We are now cooperating trilaterally on supply chain
resilience, particularly on semiconductors and batteries, as well as on
technology security and standards, clean energy and energy security,
biotechnology, critical minerals, pharmaceuticals, artificial
intelligence (AI), quantum computing, and scientific research.

Going forward, our countries are committed to working closely together
to launch early warning system pilots to expand information sharing and
enhance policy coordination on possible disruptions to global supply
chains as well as to better prepare us to confront and overcome economic
coercion. We will continue to develop the Partnership for Resilient and
Inclusive Supply-chain Enhancement (RISE) to help developing countries
play larger roles in the supply chains of clean energy products. We will
also enhance cooperation on technology protection measures to prevent
the cutting-edge technologies we develop from being illegally exported
or stolen abroad. To that end, we will conduct inaugural exchanges
between the U.S. Disruptive Technology Strike Force and Japanese and ROK
counterparts to deepen information-sharing and coordination across our
enforcement agencies. We will also continue to strengthen trilateral
cooperation on export controls to prevent our technologies from being
diverted for military or dual-use capabilities that could potentially
threaten international peace and security.

In tandem with technology protection measures, we will bolster combined
and collaborative scientific and technological innovation, including by
pursuing new trilateral National Labs cooperation and expanding
trilateral collaborative research and development and personnel
exchanges, particularly in science, technology, engineering, and
mathematics (STEM) sectors. In addition, we seek to expand trilateral
cooperation on open radio access network (RAN) and further enhance
trilateral dialogue on space security cooperation, particularly
regarding threats in the space domain, national space strategies, and
the responsible use of space. We acknowledge the crucial role of AI as a
transformative technology and affirm our respective efforts to help
shape international governance on AI and ensure safe, secure, and
trustworthy AI, in line with our shared democratic values and as the
basis for international discussions on frontier AI systems.

We are fully committed to continuing to eliminate barriers to economic
participation and build diverse, accessible, and inclusive economies in
which all our people—including women and marginalized groups—can
succeed. We will work to further strengthen our people-to-people ties,
including among our young people and students. We will continue our
cooperation toward the successful conclusion of the Indo-Pacific
Economic Framework for Prosperity (IPEF) negotiations, and President
Yoon and Prime Minister Kishida welcome the United States’ hosting of
the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) forum this year. President
Yoon and President Biden applaud Japan’s strong and principled
leadership at the G7 Hiroshima Summit to respond to challenges that the
international community is facing. Together, we are committed to
accelerate the clean energy transition; mobilize financing for quality
infrastructure and resilient supply chains, including through trilateral
collaboration among our development finance institutions as well as
through the Partnership for Global Infrastructure and Investment (PGII);
and promote sustainable economic growth and financial stability, as well
as orderly and well-functioning financial markets. We will continue our
ambitious agenda to evolve the multilateral development banks to make
them more responsive to shared global challenges. The Leaders committed
to explore delivering new World Bank Group concessional resources and
headroom to fight poverty by addressing global challenges in line with
its forthcoming concessionality framework and enhancing resources for
the poorest countries, including crisis response.

We are united in our support for Ukraine. We reaffirm our commitment to
stand with Ukraine against Russia’s unprovoked and brutal war of
aggression that has shaken the foundation of the international order. We
commit to continue providing assistance to Ukraine, imposing
coordinated, robust sanctions on Russia, and accelerating the reduction
of dependency on Russian energy. We believe the lasting lesson from this
catastrophic war of aggression must be the international community’s
abiding will to uphold the principles of territorial integrity,
sovereignty, and the peaceful resolution of disputes. We reaffirm our
view that when these foundational principles are rejected anywhere, they
represent a threat to our region. We are unified in our intent to ensure
that no such egregious acts are ever perpetrated again.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

We depart Camp David with a shared resolve and optimism for the future.
The opportunity that lies before us was not guaranteed—it was embraced.
It is the product of a determination, fiercely held by each of us, that
if we are to deliver a peaceful and prosperous future for our people,
and the people of the Indo-Pacific, we must more often stand together.
Today, we declare that a new chapter in our trilateral relationship has
begun. We are aligned in our vision; undaunted in the face of our era’s
greatest challenges; and, most of all, united in our belief that Japan,
the Republic of Korea, and the United States can meet those challenges
together, now and in the future.

\###
