---
date: '2023-08-24'
modified_time: 2023-08-23 16:28:55-04:00
published_time: 2023-08-24 05:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/08/24/statement-from-president-joe-biden-on-ukraine-independence-day/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Statement from President Joe\_Biden on Ukraine Independence\_Day"
---
 
Today, the people of Ukraine are once more marking their Independence
Day, while suffering the all-out assault of Putin’s craven war for land
and power. For eighteen months, Ukrainian families have lived under the
daily threat of Russian rockets and the reality of brutal attacks. But
the people of Ukraine have refused to break.  

On this Independence Day, as they have since Russia first invaded
Ukraine in 2014, brave Ukrainian women and men are defending
Ukraine from assaults on fundamental principles essential to every
nation on the planet – sovereignty and territorial integrity. They are
showing the world once more that freedom is worth fighting for. 

Independence means the freedom to choose your own future. It’s precious.
Each year on July 4<sup>th</sup>, Americans celebrate our Independence
Day as a time to remember the price we paid for our freedom and all the
blessings that flow from it. So today, as Putin continues his brutal war
to erase Ukraine’s independence and redraw the map of our world by
force, Americans all across the country stand united with the people of
Ukraine. 

The United States will continue our work, together with partners all
around the world, to support Ukraine’s ability to defend itself against
Russia’s aggression, to uphold the foundational principles of the UN
Charter, and to help the Ukrainian people build the secure, prosperous,
and independent future they deserve. 

Our commitment to Ukraine’s independence is unwavering and enduring.
That’s why the United States and other G7 nations issued a joint
declaration in Lithuania last month pledging to help Ukraine maintain
armed forces capable of deterring Russian aggression in years to come, a
declaration which over 25 nations have now joined. Together with our
partners in Europe, we are supporting Ukraine in their fight for freedom
now and we will help them over the long term.  

We are also working with nations everywhere to hold Russian forces
accountable for the war crimes and other atrocities they have
committed in Ukraine. That includes the forcible removal of thousands of
Ukrainian children to Russia. These children have been stolen from their
parents and kept apart from their families. It’s unconscionable. And
today, we are announcing new sanctions to hold those responsible for
these forced transfers and deportations to account, and to demand that
Ukrainian children be returned to their families.

I sincerely hope that next year, Ukrainians will be able to celebrate
their Independence Day in peace and safety, knowing how their
extraordinary courage inspired the world. May Ukraine’s Independence Day
be a reminder that the forces of darkness and dominion will never
extinguish the flame of liberty that lives in the heart of free people
everywhere.

\###
