---
date: '2023-08-28'
modified_time: 2023-08-27 19:51:25-04:00
published_time: 2023-08-28 05:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/08/28/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-highlights-efforts-to-support-k-12-education-as-students-go-back-to-school/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Highlights Efforts to Support\
  \ K-12 Education as Students go Back-to-School"
---
 
The President and First Lady will mark the start of the school year by
visiting students at Eliot-Hine Middle School in Washington, D.C. When
President Biden took office, less than half of K-12 students were going
to school in person. Today, thanks to the President’s swift actions and
historic investments, every school in America is open safely for
in-person instruction. Since Day One, President Biden has worked to help
every school open safely for in-person instruction, accelerate academic
achievement, and build communities where all students feel they belong.
The actions the President has taken to support schools and the students
they serve, include:  
  
**Securing the Largest Investment in Public Education in History to Help
Students Get Back to School and Recover Academically:** COVID-19 created
unprecedented challenges for kids, from school closures to lost
instructional time and social isolation from their peers. To support the
immediate response and the long-term recovery work our students need,
the President secured $130 billion through the American Rescue Plan
(ARP) to help schools safely reopen, stay open, and address the academic
and mental health needs of students. American Rescue Plan funding has
put more teachers in our classrooms and more counselors, social workers,
and other staff in our schools; is providing high-quality tutoring;
supporting record expansion of summer and after-school programming;
supporting HVAC improvements within school buildings to address air
quality and environmental and safety needs in aging school buildings;
and providing a wide range of student supports. Compared with the
pre-pandemic period, as of the end of last year school year, the number
of public school social workers is up 39% and the number of public
school nurses is up 30%. Nearly half of school districts using these
funds to expand summer learning programs have shown clear gains in math.
While we have further to go, we are seeing increased evidence of
improvement, including several states returning to pre-pandemic levels
of achievement on their state math and literacy assessments.  
  
**Expanding Access to Mental Health Support in Schools Across the
Country:** Students around the nation continue to grapple with mental
health challenges. Rates of depression, anxiety, and feelings of
hopelessness were already on the rise, but unprecedented disruptions in
their school and social lives in the past years, have exacerbated these
concerns. That’s why the President named tackling the mental health
crisis, particularly among America’s young people, a top priority. Last
year, the President signed the Bipartisan Safer Communities Act (BSCA)
into law last year as the first major federal gun safety bill passed in
nearly 30 years. BSCA included historic levels of funding to address
youth mental health, including $2 billion for ED to create safe,
inclusive learning environments for students and hire and train more
mental health professionals for schools – where students are most likely
to receive these crucial services. ED has awarded $286 million to date
across 264 grantees in 48 states and DC to support mental health
services in schools – investments that are estimated to support more
than 14,000 new mental health professionals in schools in the coming
years. ED is also working closely with the Department of Health and
Human Services (HHS) to further extend the reach of Federal mental
health programs and investments into schools, and to leverage Medicaid
funding to provide crucial health and mental health services at schools.
Earlier this year, the Administration released comprehensive guidance to
make it easier for schools to bill Medicaid, including proposing a rule
that would streamline Medicaid billing permissions to deliver mental
health services to students. The Administration also launched a
technical assistance center to help schools take advantage of this
crucial funding stream – which supported an additional investment of
more than $6 billion in schools in 2022.  
  
**Expanding Community Schools that Improve Academic Success:** Meeting
the needs of the whole child is essential to help America’s students
grow academically and improve their well-being. That’s why the President
is committed to increasing and supporting the adoption of community
school models across the country. Full-Service Community Schools
leverage local non-profit, private sector, and public partnerships to
bring wraparound services into school buildings, such as health
services, and assistance with shelter and nutrition. Research has shown
that these schools contribute to increased student attendance, on-time
grade progression, and high school graduation. Because of the
President’s commitment to this model, federal funding for this model has
increased five-fold over the course of this Administration. While the
program supported 170 schools before 2021 it is now reaching more than
1,700 schools serving almost 800,000 students. Additionally, agencies
across the federal government have also identified the ways that
[additional
resources](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/01/18/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-efforts-to-support-community-schools/)
can support the expansion of this model and further integrate wraparound
supports into our schools.  
  
**Expanding Teacher and Staff Capacity by Bringing in Tutors and
Mentors:** To provide students with the support they need to recover
from the impacts of the pandemic, the President issued a call to action
to bring 250,000 more tutors, mentors and other critical supports into
schools over three years. Last summer, the Department of Education (ED),
AmeriCorps, and the Johns Hopkins University’s Everyone Graduates Center
launched the National Partnership for Student Success (NPSS), a
public-private partnership to accomplish this goal. To support this
effort, ED recently launched a call to action to colleges, encouraging
them to devote a greater share of their Federal Work-Study funds to
bring college students into K-12 schools as tutors and in other
high-impact roles. Early adopters include more than two dozen colleges
ranging from large public university systems, like the State University
of New York, to Howard University and Hispanic-serving institutions. In
the coming weeks, the NPSS will highlight progress towards the
President’s goal during the 2022-2023 school year.  
  
**Growing an Effective Teacher and School Leadership Workforce:** From
February to May 2020, communities lost 730,000 local public education
jobs during the pandemic—a 9 percent decline in local public education
employment—including teachers, specialized instructional support
personnel, and other critical staff. As of June 2023, local public
education employment has increased by 635,000 jobs since its low point
in May 2020. This significant rebound now means that there are now only
1.2 percent fewer individuals working in local public education than
before the pandemic; this progress has been significantly fueled by
investments in educators through the American Rescue Plan and other
Administration investments. The President has prioritized building an
effective, diverse teacher pipeline, including by expanding high-quality
and affordable programs that prepare and support teachers, including
teacher Registered Apprenticeships. Registered Apprenticeship can be an
effective, high-quality “earn and learn” model that allows prospective
teachers to earn their credential while earning a salary by combining
coursework with structured, paid on-the-job learning experiences with a
mentor teacher. The Administration has worked closely with States to
grow the number of registered apprenticeship programs for teachers from
2 to 23, with bipartisan Governors across the country scaling this
effective model. The Department has also advanced teacher diversity by
including priorities focused on educator diversity in 14 grant programs,
totaling over $470 million and funding; for the first time, funding a
teacher preparation program for Historically Black Colleges and
Universities (HBCUs), Tribal Colleges or Universities (TCUs), and
Minority Serving Institutions (MSIs) to help accelerate the pace of
preparing teachers of color for America’s schools. The Department’s
[*Raise the Bar Policy
Brief*](https://www.ed.gov/raisethebar/eliminating-educator-shortages-compensation-preparation-leadership)
highlights progress by states across the country, with the support of
the Administration, in advancing key strategies to eliminate educator
shortages in the long term.  
  
**Directing Resources to Historically Underserved Schools and
Students:** The President’s leadership has garnered substantial
increases for Federal student support programs to meet the needs of
historically underserved students. The President has secured a nearly $2
billion (or 11%) increase in Title I funds, which delivers critical
resources to 90 percent of school districts across the Nation and helps
them provide students in low-income communities with necessary academic
opportunities and supports. Additionally, the President has secured a
historic $1.3 billion (or 10%) increase in Individuals with Disabilities
Education Act (IDEA) funds, which helps States support special education
instruction and services for 7.4 million students with disabilities, and
increased funding by $92 million for programs that support English
learners. The Administration has also increased funding to support
subpopulations of students, including Alaska Native Education and Native
Hawaiian Education programs which have increased by over 20%.

\###
