---
date: '2023-08-29'
modified_time: 2023-08-29 08:02:01-04:00
published_time: 2023-08-29 08:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/08/29/statement-from-president-joe-biden-on-historic-action-to-lower-prescription-drug-costs/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Statement from President\_Biden on Historic Action to Lower Prescription Drug\_\
  Costs"
---
 
For far too long, Americans have paid more for prescription drugs than
any major economy. And while the pharmaceutical industry makes record
profits, millions of Americans are forced to choose between paying for
medications they need to live or paying for food, rent, and other basic
necessities. Those days are ending.  
  
Today, my Administration announced the first 10 Medicare Part D drugs
that have been selected for price negotiation — for the first time ever.
They are among the most common and costly prescriptions that treat
everything from heart failure, blood clots, diabetes, arthritis, Crohn’s
disease – and more. This is on top of progress we made in reducing the
cost of insulin to $35 a month for seniors on Medicare.  
  
We’ve reached this milestone because of the Inflation Reduction Act– one
of the most significant laws ever enacted, and one that passed with the
leadership of Democrats in Congress. We took on Big Pharma and special
interests, overcoming opposition from every Republican in Congress, and
the American people won.  
  
When implemented, prices on negotiated drugs will decrease for up to 9
million seniors. These seniors currently pay up to $6,497 in
out-of-pocket costs per year for these prescriptions. In addition, the
nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office reports that this will save
taxpayers $160 billion by reducing how much Medicare pays for drugs
through negotiation and inflation rebates.  
  
This plan is a key part of Bidenomics, my economic vision for growing
the economy from the middle out and the bottom up – not the top down.
And it’s working. That’s why Big Pharma has already filed eight lawsuits
against my Administration, and spent nearly $400 million last year to
try to stop our progress. Let me be clear: I am not backing down. There
is no reason why Americans should be forced to pay more than any
developed nation for life-saving prescriptions just to pad Big Pharma’s
pockets. For many Americans, the cost of one drug is the difference
between life and death, dignity and dependence, hope and fear. That is
why we will continue the fight to lower healthcare costs – and we will
not stop until we finish the job.

\###
