---
date: '2023-08-23'
published_time: 2023-08-23 15:06:24-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/08/23/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administrations-latest-actions-to-support-communities-impacted-by-maui-wildfires-3/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden-\u2060Harris Administration\u2019s Latest Actions to Support\
  \ Communities Impacted by Maui\_Wildfires"
---
 
*More than 1,000 Federal personnel are on the ground on Maui*  
*to aid response efforts*

*$12 million in assistance to over 3,300 households approved to date*

 On, Monday, August 21, President Biden and First Lady Jill Biden
traveled to Maui, where they met emergency responders, survivors,
community members, as well as federal, state, and local officials, and
saw firsthand the overwhelming destruction caused by the wildfires. They
also saw the courage and resilience of the people of Maui. As the
President made clear, he is committed to delivering everything the
people of Hawaiʻi need, and his Administration will be there as long as
it takes to complete response efforts. Throughout this process, the
Administration is focused on respecting sacred lands, cultures, and
traditions.

Since the onset of this unprecedented tragedy, President Biden launched
a whole-of-government effort to support residents and affected
communities – and as soon as Hawaiʻi Governor Josh Green requested a
Major Disaster Declaration, the President
[signed](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=a121a15479&e=ebcdb14f7c)
it. As the recovery moves into the next phase, President Biden on Monday
appointed FEMA Region 9 Administrator Bob Fenton as the Chief Federal
Response Coordinator for Maui. In this role, Fenton will oversee the
Federal government’s long-term recovery work on the ground.

Thousands of personnel from across dozens of Federal departments and
agencies continue working with state and local partners on the ground to
assess ongoing needs and provide resources and personnel to support
response efforts.

Below are updated statistics and actions from the Biden-Harris
Administration’s whole of government response, including a new **U.S.
Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) announcement of a $1.3
million funding allocation** to help communities on Maui in the wake of
the wildfires through HUD’s new Rapid Unsheltered Survivor Housing
(RUSH) program, a rapid response program to address homelessness by
filling in federal assistance gaps in communities hit by disasters.

 The Administration encourages individuals impacted by the disaster to
register for Federal assistance at
[www.disasterassistance.gov](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=58260098ca&e=ebcdb14f7c)
or by calling 1-800-621-3362 (24 hours a day, 7 days a week).
Additionally, as we work to provide communications to meet the needs of
those impacted by the Hawaiʻi wildfires, FEMA has [multiple language
translations](https://www.fema.gov/haw/disaster/4724) available.  
   
Impacted individuals can also visit FEMA’s newly opened joint Disaster
Recovery Center at the University of Hawaiʻi Maui College, located at
310 W. Ka’ahumanu Avenue, Kahului, Hawaiʻi, to speak personally with
FEMA specialists, get assistance registering for disaster assistance,
get in touch with voluntary organizations offering additional support
services, and have access to other federal and state resources.  The
doors are open from 8 a.m. to 7 p.m. HST seven days a week.

Here is an update on the Biden-Harris Administration’s coordinated
federal response:

-   As of Tuesday, August 22, there are more than **1,000 federal
    personnel on the ground on Maui** assisting residents in their
    greatest time of need, including more than 400 search and rescue
    team members and 40 canines trained to identify remains. FEMA’s
    Disaster Survivor Assistance teams are going to shelters and
    survivors’ homes to help people register for assistance.  
     
-   To date, the Biden-Harris Administration has approved more than
    **$12 million in assistance** to over **3,300 households**,
    including nearly **$5 million** in initial rental assistance.   
     
-   FEMA has made available more than **50,000 meals**, **75,000 liters
    of water,** **5,000 cots** and **10,000 blankets** and shelter
    supplies to the county government for distribution.  
     
-   Thanks to the significant partnership between the Hawaiʻi Fire
    Relief Housing program administered by the **American Red Cross and
    funded by FEMA**, all congregate shelters have been closed as more
    than 2,500 residents have successfully been moved into hotels. More
    than 350 Red Cross disaster responders are working in coordination
    with partners to ensure people receive help as quickly as
    possible.  
     
-   Last week, President Biden made [**additional disaster funding
    available**](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=7e11cf2faf&e=ebcdb14f7c)
    to the state of Hawaiʻi, unlocking the federal government’s ability
    to cover all eligible expenses for debris removal and emergency
    protective measures in Maui County and assistance for emergency
    protective measures for Hawaiʻi County. The President authorized the
    federal cost share to be increased from 75% to 100% for 30 days that
    the Governor selects within the first 120 days.  
     
-   Nearly 700 personnel from the **Department of Defense** and 158
    members of the Coast Guard are actively participating in the
    coordinated response to the Western Maui Wildfire.  They are
    assisting with fire suppression, searching debris for remains,
    distributing fuel, installing generators for emergency power,
    assisting with dive operations, providing grief counseling and
    emotional support, and providing additional life-sustaining support.

<!-- -->

-   The **Federal Bureau of Investigation’s Honolulu Division** is
    assisting the Maui Police Department with their efforts to locate
    and identify those who are missing or may be victims of the
    wildfires in Lahaina, Hawaii, by helping collect DNA samples from
    family members. Family members are encouraged to visit family
    assistance centers in Maui to provide a DNA sample or reach out to
    the FBI at (808) 566-4300 or to <HN-COMMAND-POST@ic.fbi.gov> for
    guidance.  
     
-   The **U.S. Army Corps of Engineers** has deployed 67 responders, 16
    remote personnel, and 44 contractors who are assisting with public
    works and engineering support, which includes installing 17
    generators for temporary emergency power, planning for debris
    collection and removal, and scoping potential requirements for
    temporary construction of critical public facilities such as
    schools, fire and police stations.

<!-- -->

-   The **Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)** has deployed more than
    60 responders to Maui following the Hawaiʻi wildfires and has a full
    incident command team on the ground working closely with FEMA and
    other federal, state, and local partners. The agency’s efforts are
    focused on identifying, removing, and safely disposing of household
    hazardous waste and disaster debris to protect residents from
    environmental and health hazards. This is the next step in the
    recovery process before the clearing of debris. EPA’s response
    efforts while on Maui will be guided by its cultural resources and
    historic properties plan that the agency is working to develop with
    the Hawaiʻi State Historic Preservation Division. This plan will
    help responders identify, protect, and properly handle cultural
    resources, which were significantly impacted during the wildfire.

<!-- -->

-   The **Department of the Interior (DOI)** is supporting firefighting
    and search and rescue operations while working to protect natural
    and cultural resources on Maui in coordination with federal and
    state partners. DOI personnel are also assisting with assessment and
    recovery operations, working to determine impacts to wildlife
    habitats — including coral reefs — as well as assessing the
    potential for debris-flow and ash sediment run-off. The Department
    is in close contact with Native Hawaiian leaders and organizations
    to coordinate the availability of services, information, and
    culturally sensitive opportunities for engagement and healing.  
     
-   The **Department of Energy (DOE)** has deployed emergency responders
    to support the Federal response to the wildfires in Maui. DOE is
    working closely with the Federal Emergency Management Agency,
    Hawaiʻi State Energy Office, and the Hawaiʻi Office of Emergency
    Management.

<!-- -->

-   The **Department of Commerce’s National Oceanic and Atmospheric
    Administration (NOAA)** is providing enhanced monitoring of the
    areas affected by the wildfires using high-resolution monitoring
    tools to detect potential flood threats due to increased runoff
    potential from burn scar areas. Additionally, the Department of
    Commerce’s National Telecommunications and Information
    Administration (NTIA), through FirstNet – a public-private
    partnership between the First Responder Network Authority and AT&T –
    is providing wireless high-speed Internet connectivity and voice
    communications for first responders and emergency management.  
     
-   The **U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS)
    Administration for Strategic Preparedness and Response (ASPR)** has
    deployed 95 responders from ASPR, including experts from the
    National Disaster Medical System’s Disaster Mortuary Operational
    Response Team and a Victim Identification Center team to assist Maui
    County with victim identification. ASPR also deployed a portable
    morgue unit to help with processing human remains and additional
    personnel to bolster mental health staff and resources available at
    Lahaina Comprehensive Health Center. In addition, ASPR activated the
    [Emergency Prescription Assistance
    Program,](https://aspr.hhs.gov/EPAP/Pages/epap-status.aspx) a
    federal program that helps people in a federally-identified disaster
    area who do not have health insurance get the prescription drugs,
    vaccinations, medical supplies, and equipment that they need. 
    Secretary Becerra also [issued a Public Health
    Emergency](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=82016e0e1e&e=ebcdb14f7c)
    shortly after the President’s disaster declaration, giving CMS
    health care providers and suppliers greater flexibility in meeting
    emergency health needs of Medicare and Medicaid beneficiaries on the
    ground. HHS’ Disaster Distress Helpline – 1-800-985-5990 – is
    available to provide immediate counseling to anyone affected by the
    wildfires.  
     
-   The **U.S. Small Business Administration’s (SBA)** Office of
    Disaster Recovery and Resilience has 46 staff on the ground in
    Hawaiʻi and more are being phased in. Survivors and businesses who
    register for FEMA assistance will also be eligible for low-interest
    disaster loans. To be considered for all forms of disaster
    assistance, survivors must contact FEMA. Information and details on
    the location of business recovery center and disaster recovery
    center are available by calling the SBA Customer Service Center
    at (800) 659-2955. SBA continues to operate a Disaster Business
    Recovery Center (BRC) for survivors of the Maui wildfires and is
    part of the multi-agency presence at the Disaster Recovery Center
    (DRC). These Centers provide services to survivors including
    homeowners, renters, and small business owners seeking financial
    assistance. The SBA Recovery Center is located at Hawaiʻi Technology
    Development Corporation, Maui Research Technology Center, Building
    \#A, Ste. 119 (Conference Room), 590 Lipoa Pkwy, Kihei, HI  96753.

SBA is also conducting outreach to businesses throughout Maui County to
take advantage of the Economic Injury Disaster Loan program, and staff
are working with survivors where they are by conducting outreach in
shelters, state-run Family Assistance Centers, and door-to-door
campaigns. 

-   The **U.S. Department of Agriculture Food and Nutrition Service**
    [approved
    waivers](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=58d0bdc75c&e=ebcdb14f7c), including
    those that will allow Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program
    (SNAP) households in Hawaiʻi, including on Maui, to purchase hot
    foods with SNAP benefits through September 14; allow package size
    flexibility for those using the Special Supplemental Nutrition
    Program for Women, Infants, and Children (WIC) program through
    October 31 so they have more options to purchase what is available;
    and allow parents or guardians to pick up meals for children at grab
    ‘n go sites. Additionally, the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s
    Forest Service has deployed a Burned Area Emergency Response team to
    analyze and map the impacts of the fire to watersheds, including the
    potential for runoff and debris flows to carry hazardous materials,
    and support state and local staff in assessing post-fire watershed
    conditions and post-fire slope stability issues.  
     
-   The **U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD)** is
    announcing today a $1.3 million funding allocation to help
    communities on Maui in the wake of the wildfires through the
    department’s new Rapid Unsheltered Survivor Housing (RUSH) program,
    a rapid response program to address homelessness by filling in
    federal assistance gaps in communities hit by disasters. RUSH
    funding is available to help communities provide outreach, emergency
    shelter, rapid re-housing, and other assistance to people
    experiencing or at risk of homelessness who are in a disaster
    affected area but who cannot access all services provided by FEMA
    programs.

Additionally, HUD is providing a 90-day relief from foreclosures of
Federal Housing Administration-insured mortgages and home equity
conversion mortgages. Homeowners affected by the disaster should contact
their mortgage or loan servicer immediately. They can also call the FHA
Resource Center at 1-800-304-9320 for additional information and visit
the [FHA Disaster
Relief](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=94e16b8dd2&e=ebcdb14f7c)
site to learn more about disaster relief options for FHA homeowners. HUD
also released [regulatory and administrative
waivers](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=8b58ddbb91&e=ebcdb14f7c)
to help communities accelerate their recovery. This includes funding for
housing rehabilitation and reconstruction, homebuyer programs replacing
disaster damaged residences, infrastructure improvements and assistance
to people at risk of homelessness. HUD has assigned experienced Disaster
Technical Assistance providers that will be available remotely and, on
the ground, to support local leaders help communities and families that
were experiencing homelessness before the devastating fires and those
that may require homeless services because of the fires.

-   The **U.S. Consumer Financial Protection Bureau** has created a
    [disaster and emergencies
    guide](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=17d0bee001&e=ebcdb14f7c)
    to handling finances, including resources to help impacted residents
    recover, such as tackling housing issues, protecting your finances,
    dealing with property damage, managing your bills, and asking for
    help from financial companies like banks, credit cards and other
    lenders. If residents are having trouble with a financial company,
    they can [submit a complaint
    online](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=bc729d6cb3&e=ebcdb14f7c) or
    by calling (855) 411-CFPB (2372).  
     
-   The **U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT)** has made available
    $3 million, the full amount of “quick release” Emergency Relief (ER)
    funds requested by the Hawaiʻi Department of Transportation (HDOT),
    to offset costs associated with traffic management services in the
    wake of the wildfires. Additionally, DOT currently has three
    temporary flight restrictions in place to help facilitate search and
    rescue missions and has worked with major U.S. airlines that serve
    Kahului Airport to promote [flexible
    travel](https://whitehouse.us19.list-manage.com/track/click?u=c97630621baff8c44fe607661&id=2d80666119&e=ebcdb14f7c)
    policies.  
     
-   The **Heritage Emergency National Task Force (HENTF)**, a
    partnership between FEMA and Smithsonian Institution, is working
    through the Hawaiʻi Emergency Management Agency to ensure that
    museums and cultural heritage sites are incorporated into FEMA
    preliminary damage assessments to anticipate needs associated with
    long-term recovery planning.

\###
