---
date: '2023-08-30'
modified_time: 2023-08-30 11:05:28-04:00
published_time: 2023-08-30 09:56:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/08/30/what-they-are-saying-elected-officials-labor-leaders-aging-advocates-health-and-advocacy-groups-and-more-applaud-administrations-prescription-drug-announcement/
tags: statements-releases
title: "WHAT THEY ARE SAYING: Elected Officials, Labor Leaders, Aging Advocates, Health\
  \ and Advocacy Groups, And More Applaud Administration\u2019s Prescription Drug\_\
  Announcement"
---
 
Yesterday, Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services released the first
10 drugs selected for Medicare Price Negotiation – a critical provision
under the Inflation Reduction Act that will finally allow Medicare to
negotiate lower prescription drug costs for seniors, people with
disabilities, and other beneficiaries. For decades, Big Pharma has
blocked this from happening, forcing millions of Americans to choose
between paying for medications they need to live, or paying for other
basic necessities.  
  
Under President Biden and Vice President Harris, those days are ending.
Up to 9 million Americans will be able to benefit from the new
negotiated drug prices on 10 drugs used to treat some of the most common
diseases like diabetes, heart disease, arthritis, blood clots, and
cancers. In 2022 just one of these drugs could cost seniors up to $6,497
in out-of-pocket costs per year.  
  
Yesterday’s announcement is a major step forward in the Administration’s
efforts to lower costs for American families and make health care more
affordable. President Biden, Vice President Harris, and their
Administration won’t stop until they finish the job.  
  
*See below for what they are saying:*  
  
**MEMBERS OF CONGRESS**  
  
**Senate Majority Leader, New York Senator Chuck Schumer**: “For years,
politicians promised to take on the big drug companies and empower
Medicare to negotiate lower drug prices for consumers. With the
Inflation Reduction Act, Democrats have delivered.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/SenSchumer/status/1696496547289026634?s=20),
8/29/23\]  
  
**Senate Majority Whip, Illinois Senator Dick Durbin**: “After decades
of empty promises, @POTUS & Congressional Dems are successfully forcing
down drug prices. First insulin to $35/month for Seniors on Medicare, &
now the biggest drugs on the market.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/SenatorDurbin/status/1696542301281980442?s=20),
8/29/23\]  
  
**House Minority Leader, New York Congressman Hakeem Jeffries**: “For
far too long, pharmaceutical companies have made record profits while
everyday Americans struggle to afford life-saving medications. After
decades of fighting Big Pharma and their extreme MAGA Republican allies,
House Democrats and the Biden administration passed the Inflation
Reduction Act last year to lower costs for everyday Americans. Now, for
the first time ever, Medicare has the power to negotiate prices with
drug companies on behalf of seniors, driving down the cost of some of
the most expensive medications Americans take to treat heart disease,
cancer, diabetes and more. Americans and our seniors pay more for
life-saving prescription drugs than every other developed nation, often
3 to 4 times as much. This is unacceptable, it’s unconscionable and it
should be un-American. While extreme MAGA Republicans continue to try to
unwind this progress and raise health care costs for seniors, Democrats
will always put the health, safety and well-being of everyday Americans
over the special interests of the wealthy, well-off and well-connected.
This is a historic milestone and we’re just getting started.”
\[Statement, 8/29/23\]  
  
**House Democratic Chair, California Congressman Pete Aguilar**: “9
million Americans will soon be paying significantly less for 10
different, widely-used medications thanks to @HouseDemocrats and @POTUS
.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepPeteAguilar/status/1696551604810387763?s=20),
8/29/23\]  
  
**House Minority Whip, Massachusetts Congresswoman Katherine Clark**:
“For decades, the rising cost of prescription drugs has forced Americans
to make the impossible choice between daily necessities and life-saving
medications. Today, Democrats say ‘no more.’ Under the leadership of
President Biden, we have taken on Big Pharma and won — granting Medicare
the authority to negotiate prescription drug costs directly with
manufacturers through our landmark Inflation Reduction Act. Millions of
Americans will have access to the medications they need at a price they
can afford. Democrats are delivering on our promise to lower costs and
build an America where everyone can care for themselves and their loved
ones. We will continue working to put money back into the pockets of
working families and grow our economy by growing the middle class.”
\[Statement, 8/29/23\]  
  
**Speaker Emeritus, California Congresswoman Nancy Pelosi**: “The
Inflation Reduction Act was a monumental victory in Democrats’ long
fight to make prescription drugs more affordable: empowering Medicare to
negotiate lower prices. Today’s announcement is an important step to
delivering these lower costs to millions of America’s seniors.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/SpeakerPelosi/status/1696533778783683045?s=20),
8/29/23\]  
  
**Chairwoman, Senate Appropriations Committee, Washington Senator Patty
Murray:** “We have more to do, but this is going to bring down drug
costs significantly for so many patients. I fought hard to pass Medicare
negotiation in the Inflation Reduction Act because we need to put
patients over profits.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/PattyMurray/status/1696555054969606168?s=20),
8/29/23\]  
  
**Chairman, Senate Finance Committee, Oregon Senator Ron Wyden**: “Today
marks the beginning of a new era for seniors and families that have been
breaking the bank for far too long to pay for expensive prescription
medicines. The products that will now be subject to negotiation are used
by millions of seniors in Medicare each year, costing each of them
thousands of dollars. This step, plus other cost saving measures in the
Inflation Reduction Act, represent a seismic shift in the relationship
between Big Pharma, the federal government, and seniors who are counting
on lower prices. I will be following the negotiation process closely and
will fight any attempt by Big Pharma to undo or undermine the progress
that’s been made.” \[Statement, 8/29/23\]  
  
**Chairwoman, Senate Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry Committee,
Michigan Senator Debbie Stabenow**: “The Inflation Reduction Act is
delivering real results for Michiganders like Pam Bloink. Pam is a
retired teacher & assumed she was set for retirement. Rising costs left
her struggling to make ends meet. The $35 a month insulin cap has been a
lifesaver for Pam.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/SenStabenow/status/1696555381248450937?s=20),
8/29/23\]  
  
**Chairman, Senate Budget Committee, Rhode Island Senator Sheldon
Whitehouse**: “The Inflation Reduction Act finally gave Medicare a seat
at the table to negotiate lower drug prices for seniors. This is just
the start.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/SenWhitehouse/status/1696539778911805449?s=20),
8/29/23\]  
  
**Chairman, Senate Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs Committee, Ohio
Senator Sherrod Brown**: “For years we fought Big Pharma to allow
Medicare to negotiate lower drug prices. For these 10 drugs that cost
people on Medicare $3.4 BILLION last year — negotiations finally start
today. We’re bringing costs down & keeping Ohioans from footing the bill
of Big Pharma’s greed.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/SenSherrodBrown/status/1696575228300718519?s=20),
8/29/23\]  
  
**Chairman, Senate Environment and Public Works Committee, Delaware
Senator Tom Carper**: “Today’s announcement is proof that the Inflation
Reduction Act is working. No one should have to decide between putting
food on their table and paying for prescriptions, and I was proud to
lead several provisions of this life-changing legislation.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/SenatorCarper/status/1696598079581868047?s=20),
8/29/23\]  
  
**Chairman, Senate Aging Committee, Pennsylvania Senator Bob Casey**:
“In the Inflation Reduction Act, Democrats fought hard to finally allow
Medicare to negotiate drug prices. Because of this law, pharmaceutical
companies will no longer be able to charge Medicare recipients unfair
prices for the medications they need, and millions of Americans will see
lower drug costs as a result. This is a huge step to lower drug costs
for Americans, but it’s also just the beginning. More drugs will be
added to the list in the years to come, and Democrats are going to keep
fighting to lower everyday costs for Americans and ensure that families
don’t have to choose between their health and their bank account.”
\[[Statement](https://t.co/e6gN2maU6q), 8/29/23\]  
  
**Chairman, Senate Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs Committee,
Michigan Senator Gary Peters**: “The Inflation Reduction Act allows
Medicare to negotiate lower prescription drug prices — that’s one reason
I fought so hard to pass it. Glad to see this step taken to lower costs
for millions of seniors in Michigan and across the country.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/SenGaryPeters/status/1696577345128124687?s=20),
8/29/23\]  
  
**Chairman, Senate Veteran’s Affairs Committee, Montana Senator Jon
Tester**: “GOOD NEWS: Cheaper prescription drugs are coming to Montana.
Nobody should ever have to choose between life-saving meds and putting
food on the table. That’s why we took on Big Pharma to lower drug
prices—starting with these 10 critical medications”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/SenatorTester/status/1696551388572991949?s=20),
8/29/23\]  
  
**Ranking Member, House Appropriations Committee, Connecticut
Congresswoman Rosa DeLauro**: “In the \#InflationReductionAct, Democrats
made a historic step toward lowering prescription drug & health care
costs by finally allowing Medicare to negotiate prescription drug
prices. Today, @POTUS announced the first 10 Part D drugs to bring
relief that seniors deserve.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/rosadelauro/status/1696558848734122218?s=20),
8/29/23\]  
  
**Ranking Member, House Energy and Commerce Committee, New Jersey
Congressman Frank Pallone**: “Other nations around the world negotiate
prescription drug prices and it is only fair that we do the same.
Today’s announcement begins the process of Medicare negotiating lower
prices on these ten drugs and making them more affordable for America’s
seniors. It marks the end of a 20-year handout from Republicans in
Congress to the pharmaceutical industry that prevented Medicare from
negotiating prescription drug prices for seniors. This announcement is
part of Democrats’ ongoing effort to lower prescription drug prices and
cap seniors’ Medicare Part D out-of-pocket spending. Seniors are already
benefiting from the Inflation Reduction Act’s monthly $35 cap on insulin
and penalties to pharmaceutical companies for raising prices faster than
inflation. Democrats are committed to reining in the excesses of the
pharmaceutical industry and lowering prescription drug prices for the
American people, and today’s announcement is a major step in that
effort.” \[[Statement](https://t.co/FXhiQCwoya), 8/29/23\]  
  
**Ranking Member, House Education and the Workforce Committee, Virginia
Congressman Bobby Scott**: “. @POTUS and Congressional Democrats took on
Big Pharma when we passed the Inflation Reduction Act. Now, Medicare is
announcing which prescription drugs will be negotiating prices. This
will cut costs and lower prices for consumers.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/BobbyScott/status/1696523245460300082?s=20),
8/29/23\]  
  
**Ranking Member, House Ways and Means Committee, Massachusetts
Congressman Richard Neal**: “For decades, experts said that letting
Medicare negotiate drug prices would lower costs for millions of
America’s seniors. @WaysMeansCmte Democrats got it done with the
\#InflationReductionAct”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepRichardNeal/status/1696535190741635291?s=20),
8/29/23\]  
  
**Ranking Member, House Small Business Committee, New York Congresswoman
Nydia Velazquez**: “Americans have paid more for prescription drugs than
any major economy for too long. Thanks to @POTUS , we are lowering high
drug costs that only serve to benefit Big Pharma’s bank accounts. I was
proud to support the Inflation Reduction Act, which helped to make this
progress.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/NydiaVelazquez/status/1696536692390510968?s=20),
8/29/23\]  
  
**Ranking Member, House Natural Resources Committee, Arizona Congressman
Raul Grijalva**: “As part of the \#InflationReductionAct, Democrats
acted to lower prescription drug costs and allow Medicare to negotiate
drug prices. Today is a historic day and the first of many to lower
health care costs for Americans.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepRaulGrijalva/status/1696574879670169983?s=20),
8/29/23\]  
  
**Ranking Member, House Veteran’s Affairs Committee, California
Congressman Mark Takano: “**Democrats will keep fighting until drug
companies stop price gouging medication that saves lives. Today’s news
is a major win for all Medicaid beneficiaries and everyone who relies on
these 10 common prescriptions.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepMarkTakano/status/1696570673680838790?s=20),
8/29/23\]  
  
**Arizona Senator Mark Kelly**: “I fought to give Medicare the power to
negotiate lower prices for the most expensive prescription drugs. Today,
the first 10 medications up for negotiation were announced. This is a
huge step toward driving down the cost of Rx drugs for Arizona seniors.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/SenMarkKelly/status/1696625413861319075?s=20),
8/29/23\]  
  
**California Senator Alex Padilla**: “Democrats are making good on our
promise to lower costs for Americans. Today, @POTUS begins negotiating
the prices of 10 lifesaving drugs. With the passage of the IRA,
Democrats took on Big Pharma and now millions of seniors will have more
money in their pocket each month.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/SenAlexPadilla/status/1696582279680716892?s=20),
8/29/23\]  
  
**Colorado Senator Michael Bennet**: “These drugs save lives, but
millions of Americans can’t afford them. Now, thanks to the
\#InflationReductionAct, Medicare must negotiate these prices on behalf
of the American people. I helped secure this life-saving provision, and
I’ll continue working to lower drug prices.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/SenatorBennet/status/1696501718458982418?s=20),
8/29/23\]  
  
**Colorado Senator John Hickenlooper**: “The Inflation Reduction Act
finally gave Medicare the ability to negotiate drug prices on the most
expensive drugs! This is just the start.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/SenatorHick/status/1696566433143025705?s=20),
8/29/23\]  
  
**Connecticut Senator Richard Blumenthal**: “Because of the Inflation
Reduction Act, Medicare can finally negotiate lower costs for popular
prescription drugs for the first time ever. These new deals will result
in real savings—making health care more affordable for millions of
Americans.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/SenBlumenthal/status/1696618267165511767?s=20),
8/29/23\]  
  
**Georgia Senator Raphael Warnock**: “This is big news! I worked hard to
help pass the \#InflationReductionAct to lower Rx drug costs, and this
announcement is the next step toward allowing Medicare to negotiate to
bring down prices on life-saving medication used by countless
Georgians.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/SenatorWarnock/status/1696592058595594561?s=20),
8/29/23\]  
  
**Maryland Senator Chris Van Hollen**: “This is a major milestone in our
fight to lower Rx drug prices for all Americans. We fought for years to
allow Medicare to negotiate for lower prices. With the Inflation
Reduction Act, we got it done — and millions of Americans will benefit.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/ChrisVanHollen/status/1696526377204502623?s=20),
8/29/23\]  
  
**Massachusetts Senator Elizabeth Warren**: “Today, @HHSGov announced
the first 10 prescription drugs that will be negotiated under Medicare.
This is an important win that will bring down costs for seniors and
families — and Republicans and Big Pharma fought against it every step
of the way.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/SenWarren/status/1696536200478409047?s=20),
8/29/23\]  
  
**Massachusetts Senator Ed Markey**: “Since we passed the IRA, seniors
have saved on insulin and vaccines. Now, Big Pharma will have to
negotiate with Medicare on the cost of diabetes and heart failure
medications for millions of Americans. We won’t stop fighting until we
secure truly affordable health care for all.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/SenMarkey/status/1696570512564969710?s=20),
8/29/23\]  
  
**Minnesota Senator Amy Klobuchar**: “The cost of prescription drugs is
simply too high. For too long, big drug companies have put their profits
ahead of the well-being of millions of Americans who need
life-sustaining medications. That is why I have worked for years to end
the big drug companies’ sweetheart deal that artificially raised prices
at the expense of our seniors. Today, we took a historic step toward
lowering the price of some of the most widely-used, costly medications
with the announcement of the first batch of drugs that will be subject
to price negotiations with Medicare. I’ll keep fighting to make sure
that all Americans can access the medications they need.”
\[[Statement](https://www.klobuchar.senate.gov/public/index.cfm/news-releases?ID=0EEB7F3E-A95D-4303-B70D-F74DA9ABBF01#:~:text=This%20past%20April%2C%20Klobuchar%2C%20Senator,negotiate%20for%20Medicare%20Part%20D.),
8/29/23\]  
  
**Nevada Senator Catherine Cortez Masto**: “. @POTUS just announced that
Medicare is bringing Big Pharma to the table to lower the cost of 10 of
the costliest medications – thanks to the Inflation Reduction Act that I
voted for. This is going to deliver life-changing savings for families
across Nevada.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/SenCortezMasto/status/1696541717107978371?s=20),
8/29/23\]  
  
**Nevada Senator Jacky Rosen:** “I’ve met with seniors across NV who’ve
had to make tough decisions because they can’t afford their medications.
I proudly helped pass legislation to let Medicare negotiate for lower Rx
drug prices & this announcement is an important step towards that goal:”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/SenJackyRosen/status/1696574428107206990?s=20),
8/29/23\]  
  
**New Hampshire Senator Maggie Hassan:** “We took on Big Pharma to
finally allow Medicare to negotiate with drug companies and secure lower
prescription medication costs – and today the administration has named
the first 10 medications that will be included in these negotiations.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/SenatorHassan/status/1696574357861003563?s=20),
8/29/23\]  
  
**New Hampshire Senator Jeanne Shaheen**: “I worked to help pass the
\#InflationReductionAct to end Big Pharma’s price gouging by letting
Medicare negotiate drug prices. Today’s announcement is a big step
towards that goal.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/SenatorShaheen/status/1696609247084036380?s=20),
8/29/23\]  
  
**New York Senator Kirsten Gillibrand**: “Thanks to the Inflation
Reduction Act, Medicare is finally allowed to negotiate lower drug
prices—and @POTUS just announced the first ten drugs that will be
negotiated. The days of seniors having to choose between their medicine
or putting food on the table are coming to an end.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/gillibrandny/status/1696623352495083899?s=20),
8/29/23\]  
  
**New Mexico Senator Ben Ray Luján**: “Thanks to the Inflation Reduction
Act, for the first time Medicare will be able to negotiate the highest
prescription drug prices with pharma companies. Now, 9 million seniors
will save money on these essential medications. People over profits.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/SenatorLujan/status/1696624065979531662?s=20),
8/29/23\]  
  
**Pennsylvania Senator John Fetterman**: “President Biden will slash the
prices of the 10 prescription drugs seniors spend the most money on.
This day is 20 YEARS in the making. @POTUS & Democrats in Congress
actually stood up to Big Pharma while every single Republican just stood
in the way.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/SenFettermanPA/status/1696554692736589939?s=20),
8/29/23\]  
  
**Virginia Senator Tim Kaine**: “Thanks to the Inflation Reduction
Act—which I was proud to help pass—Medicare can finally negotiate the
price of these prescription drugs, lowering costs for seniors.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/timkaine/status/1696516588273365371?s=20),
8/29/23\]  
  
**Virginia Senator Mark Warner**: “Thrilled to see Medicare announce the
first ten prescription drugs eligible for price negotiations! This is a
monumental and historic step forward in lowering costs for Americans.
I’m proud to have fought for this day for years and supported the law
that made it possible.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/MarkWarner/status/1696553676448452640?s=20),
8/29/23\]  
  
**Wisconsin Senator Tammy Baldwin**: “I voted for the Inflation
Reduction Act to take on big drug companies & finally allow Medicare to
negotiate the price of prescription drugs.  I’m proud our legislation is
going cut costs for Wisconsinites and make a real difference in
families’ lives.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/SenatorBaldwin/status/1696542393825145283?s=20),
8/29/23\]  
  
**Arizona Congressman Greg Stanton:** “NEW: For the first time in
history, Medicare will now negotiate lower prices for some of our
costliest prescription drugs. I’ve been working towards this for
years—and thanks to our \#InflationReductionAct, we got it done.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepGregStanton/status/1696563600654061752?s=20),
8/29/23\]  
  
**California Congressman Ted Lieu**: “Democrats are putting
\#PeopleOverPolitics by lowering prescription drug costs for seniors on
Medicare. Check out the list of drugs selected for Medicare price
negotiation below ⬇️. Thank you @POTUS & @VP . Thank you Inflation
Reduction Act.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepTedLieu/status/1696542089176121693?s=20),
8/29/23\]  
  
**California Congressman Jim Costa**: “Thanks to the Inflation Reduction
Act, Medicare can now negotiate the price of these prescription drug
costs. I am proud to have voted for this historic law to deliver real
savings for millions of seniors.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepJimCosta/status/1696553304149598291?s=20),
8/29/23\]  
  
**California Congressman Mike Thompson**: “Thanks to the Inflation
Reduction Act, Medicare can now negotiate Rx prices which will help
Americans save thousands of dollars. Today’s announcement of the first
drugs that will be subject to negotiations is a step forward for health
care affordability.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepThompson/status/1696544335255224827?s=20),
8/29/23\]  
  
**California Congressman Salud Carbajal**: “How do you cut prescription
costs AND save the U.S. government nearly $100 billion over the next
decade? You give Medicare the power to negotiate lower prices from Big
Pharma. That’s what @HouseDemocrats and I did with the Inflation
Reduction Act.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepCarbajal/status/1696560129330602352?s=20),
8/29/23\]  
  
**California Congressman Jared Huffman**: “Democrats single-handedly
passed a law to lower costs of key medicines—and the Biden admin just
announced the first set of drugs subject to the law. We’re putting
\#PeopleOverPolitics to help millions of people afford life saving
medications.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepHuffman/status/1696580912660558121?s=20),
8/29/23\]  
  
**California Congressman Adam Schiff**: “I’ve fought for years to ensure
Californians on Medicare aren’t burdened with steep drug costs. Thanks
to the Inflation Reduction Act, which we passed last Congress,
prescription drugs will be more affordable for millions of seniors and
save taxpayers nearly $100 billion over the next ten years.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepAdamSchiff/status/1696570681037647979?s=20),
8/29/23\]  
  
**California Congressman Jimmy Gomez**: “While pharmaceutical companies
made record-breaking profits, American seniors were forced to choose
between paying for meds or basic necessities. Thanks to the
\#InflationReductionAct & @POTUS , Medicare can begin to negotiate the
costs of these first 🔟 prescription drugs.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepJimmyGomez/status/1696559189613596797?s=20),
8/29/23\]  
  
**California Congressman Mark Desulnier:** “As a cancer survivor who
relied on Imbruvica to keep me alive for over 2 years, I’m thrilled by
this historic action to make life-saving prescription drugs more
affordable for millions of Americans made possible by Congressional
Democrats passing the Inflation Reduction Act.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepDeSaulnier/status/1696678009661526311?s=20),
8/29/23\]  
  
**California Congresswoman Judy Chu**: “No other country in the world
pays as much as we do for our prescription drugs. For the first time in
history, Medicare can now negotiate lowerprices for some of our nation’s
costliest prescription drugs thanks to the \#InflationReductionAct!”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepJudyChu/status/1696538334682890720?s=20),
8/29/23\]  
  
**Colorado Congresswoman Diana DeGette**: “By giving the administration
power to negotiate drug prices, we are lowering the cost of these
important medications for millions of Americans, bringing down future
health care costs for all Americans & reducing gov’t spending by more
than $98 BILLION!”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepDianaDeGette/status/1696540126791295223?s=20),
8/29/23\]  
  
**Connecticut Congressman John Larson:** “Since I came to Congress,
lowering costs by allowing Medicare to negotiate drug prices has been
one of my top health care priorities, and now we’re going to see that in
action. Millions of seniors and people with disabilities are saving on
insulin and their out-of-pocket prescription drug costs, and soon,
Medicare will put money back in Americans’ pockets by negotiating key
drug prices for the first time. Last year, as many as 123,000
Connecticut residents enrolled in Medicare Part D used one of the 10
drugs selected for negotiation, with an out-of-pocket mean that was as
high as $4,659 per year. I have heard horror stories from constituents
who had to cut back or go without their medication because it was too
expensive, and that’s flat-out wrong. I voted for the Inflation
Reduction Act last year to make progress toward our goal of ensuring no
American must choose between their medication and paying their bills,
and I am proud of this progress today.”
\[[Statement](https://larson.house.gov/media-center/press-releases/larson-applauds-announcement-first-drugs-selected-medicare-price),
8/29/23\]  
  
**Connecticut Congressman Joe Courtney**: “Finally, because of the
Inflation Reduction Act, seniors won’t be beholden to the whims of drug
companies’ bottom line. Negotiating drug prices for diabetes and
arthritis medications and more will cut costs for millions of Medicare
beneficiaries. This is the start of a cumulative process which could
lead to as many as 60 medications with lower prices by 2029. I’m working
in this Congress to extend those savings to working age Americans too.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepJoeCourtney/status/1696557500030394807?s=20),
8/29/23\]  
  
**Florida Congresswoman Debbie Wasserman Schultz**: “Are you paying too
much for your medications? Thanks to @POTUS , Medicare announced 10
drugs they will negotiate lower prices on. I teamed with @HouseDemocrats
to pass the \#InflationReductionAct to remove the grip of Big Pharma on
Rx costs and put \#PeopleOverPolitics.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepDWStweets/status/1696556745697493459?s=20),
8/29/23\]  
  
**Florida Congresswoman Frederica Wilson**: “Thank you @POTUS for your
leadership. With the passage of the Inflation Reduction Act, we’re now
reaping the benefits of Democrats’ action: lower drug costs. With
commonly used medications ranging from diabetes to blood thinner drugs,
these changes will help countless Americans.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepWilson/status/1696571006746345667?s=20),
8/29/23\]  
  
**Florida Congresswoman Sheila Cherfilus-McCormick**: “The
\#InflationReductionAct continues to deliver for Americans — now in the
form of low-cost prescriptions for those on Medicare.  No senior should
have to choose between paying for life-saving medications or paying for
groceries.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/CongresswomanSC/status/1696545838980317335?s=20),
8/29/23\]  
  
**Illinois Congressman Bill Foster:** “One of the reasons I was so proud
to vote for the Inflation Reduction Act was because it finally gave
Medicare a seat at the bargaining table. Today’s announcement will help
our seniors save on their out-of-pocket costs.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepBillFoster/status/1696542492852633757?s=20),
8/29/23\]  
  
**Illinois Congressman Mike Quigley**: “This announcement is a major
step forward in the Administration’s efforts to lower costs for American
families and make health care more affordable. President Biden, Vice
President Harris, and their Administration won’t stop until they finish
the job.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepMikeQuigley/status/1696539933404504189?s=20),
8/29/23\]  
  
**Indiana Congressman André Carson**: “Through laws like the Inflation
Reduction Act, Democrats are fighting to lower the costs of prescription
drugs. Nobody should have to choose between lifesaving medication and
other household expenses. It’s long past time we change this unjust
system.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepAndreCarson/status/1696619426777272372?s=20),
8/29/23\]  
  
**Maine Congresswoman Chellie Pingree**: “👏🏻DEMOCRATS 👏🏻 DID 👏🏻 THAT 👏🏻
Today, thanks to @POTUS and @HouseDemocrats , we finally start reining
in record profits from Big Pharma while putting money back in Mainers’
pockets!”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/chelliepingree/status/1696609925349126541?s=20),
8/29/23\]  
  
**Maryland Congressman John Sarbanes**: “Last year, @HouseDemocrats took
an historic step to hold drug companies accountable and lower costs for
millions of Americans by passing the \#InflationReductionAct. Today,
@POTUS announced the first ten drugs that Medicare will lower the prices
of through negotiation.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepSarbanes/status/1696524183273156961?s=20),
8/29/23\]  
  
**Maryland Congressman Glenn Ivey**: “Applauding @POTUS and
@HouseDemocrats who voted to pass \#InflationReductionAct which forces
Big Pharma to negotiate lower prices on lifesaving prescription drugs
among other healthcare benefits \#PeopleOverPolitics \#DemsDeliver”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepGlennIvey/status/1696543498294485095?s=20),
8/29/23\]  
  
**Massachusetts Congressman Jim McGovern**: “BIG NEWS: @POTUS names
first 10 drugs for Medicare price negotiation. This is why I voted for
the Inflation Reduction Act—to finally put Big Pharma’s price-gouging of
seniors in check.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepMcGovern/status/1696550439674695768?s=20),
8/29/23\]  
  
**Massachusetts Congresswoman Lori Trahan**: “Today, the Biden-Harris
Admin released a list of 10 Rx drugs whose prices will be negotiated
thanks to the Inflation Reduction Act. This is a big, historic deal –
and a promise kept!”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepLoriTrahan/status/1696596207227879684?s=20),
8/29/23\]  
  
**Michigan Congresswoman Elissa Slotkin**: “This is an important step
towards lowering the cost of prescription drugs for seniors – these ten
drugs are some of the most popular in the country, which means
negotiating lower prices will impact millions of seniors who have been
price-gouged for years.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepSlotkin/status/1696509537816023469?s=20),
8/29/23\]  
  
**Michigan Congresswoman Debbie Dingell**: “This is an important step
toward ensuring that no one must make the impossible choice between
keeping a roof over their head or obtaining lifesaving medication.
Health care is a basic human right and we will continue to work to bring
down these costs.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepDebDingell/status/1696580383788146964?s=20),
8/29/23\]  
  
**Minnesota Congresswoman Angie Craig**: “Today’s announcement will
change lives, plain and simple. Last year we finally passed a law to
give Medicare the power to negotiate their drug prices, and soon
millions of Americans will see those savings at the pharmacy. I’ll keep
working to lower health care costs.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepAngieCraig/status/1696576705513582826?s=20),
8/29/23\]  
  
**Missouri Congressman Emanuel Cleaver:** “Last Congress, @POTUS and
@HouseDemocrats took on Big Pharma and enacted the Inflation Reduction
Act to lower prescription drug costs for American seniors—because no one
should have to choose between lifesaving medicine and putting food on
the table. A huge win For The People!”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/repcleaver/status/1696569825164751005?s=20),
8/29/23\]  
  
**Nevada Congresswoman Susie Lee**: “For decades, Big Pharma tried to
keep Medicare from negotiating prescription drug prices so they could
squeeze hardworking Americans for record profits. But last year, we took
them on and won. Now, 8 million seniors and every single taxpayer will
reap the benefits.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepSusieLee/status/1696569515650281694?s=20),
8/29/23\]  
  
**New Jersey Congressman Don Norcross**: “Big news! Thanks to the
\#InflationReductionAct, Medicare will negotiate prices for these 10
lifesaving medications that millions of Americans rely on. I was proud
to secure this historic provision which will hold Big Pharma accountable
& lower costs for South Jersey seniors.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/DonaldNorcross/status/1696538614321357046?s=20),
8/29/23\]  
  
**New Jersey Congressman Donald Payne**: “The rising cost of
prescription drugs has forced Americans to make the choice between daily
needs and life-saving medications. I support Pres. Biden’s work to lower
drug prices on 10 life-saving medications for Medicare recipients.
@POTUS”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepDonaldPayne/status/1696555750108057876?s=20),
8/29/23\]  
  
**New York Congressman Ritchie Torres**: “Last Congress, @HouseDemocrats
passed the Inflation Reduction Act to bring costs down for seniors and
working families. Today, because of this law, we know the first 10
prescription drugs in which Medicare can negotiate prices for the first
time ever.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepRitchie/status/1696507697271636127?s=20),
8/29/23\]  
  
**New York Congressman Jamaal Bowman**: “Because of the Inflation
Reduction Act that Democrats passed, Medicare is able to start
negotiating prices for lifesaving drugs, lowering out of pocket costs.
No one should have to decide between paying for food or medication. We
will always keep fighting for American families.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepBowman/status/1696553797257142698?s=20),
8/29/23\]  
  
**New York Congressman Paul Tonko:** “Millions of Americans depend on
prescriptions in order to lead full and healthy lives, yet skyrocketing
drug prices imposed by greedy corporations have forced far too many to
choose between paying for health care and putting food on the table.
Lowering costs for these essential medications has long been a priority
for Democrats and last year, I was elated to advance the Inflation
Reduction Act to rein in out-of-control health care costs and slash drug
prices for Americans. This is a momentous announcement and one of many
to come. I look forward to continuing to build upon this work to ensure
every American can afford the health care they need.”
\[[Statement](https://tonko.house.gov/news/documentsingle.aspx?DocumentID=3971),
8/29/23\]  
  
**North Carolina Congresswoman Kathy Manning**: “BIG NEWS: Today, @POTUS
announced the first round of prescription medications selected for price
negotiation under Medicare. This historic moment – made possible by the
Inflation Reduction Act – will lower costs of necessary & life-saving
medications for seniors.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepKManning/status/1696545641629880622?s=20),
8/29/23\]  
  
**Ohio Congressman Greg Landsman**: “For the first time ever, Medicare
has the ability to negotiate lower prescription drug prices. Thanks to
the Inflation Reduction Act, seniors and taxpayers will save real money
on medications for diabetes, arthritis, cancer, Crohn’s disease, and
more.” \[Statement, 8/29/23\]  
  
**Ohio Congresswoman Emilia Sykes**: “The Inflation Reduction Act gives
Medicare the ability to negotiate the price of certain prescription
drugs, saving seniors money on life-saving medication for diabetes,
blood disorders, other chronic conditions & more. This bill is saving
money and lives in \#OH13 & the nation.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepEmiliaSykes/status/1696546551680655843?s=20),
8/29/23\]  
  
**Pennsylvania Congresswoman Susan Wild:** “HUGE news! I’ve been taking
on Big Pharma to lower your drug costs since my first day in Congress.
Today, we’re chipping away at Big Pharma’s power to price-gouge and rake
in billions in profit at your expense. I’m proud to have fought to make
it happen.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepSusanWild/status/1696521539058106864?s=20),
8/29/23\]  
  
**Rhode Island Congressman Seth Magaziner**: “No one should have to
choose between paying for lifesaving medication and other basic
necessities, like food and housing. This announcement is a major step
toward slashing health care costs for seniors, but our work is far from
over. We must keep fighting to lower the cost of prescription drugs for
all Americans.”  
  
**Texas Congressman Henry Cuellar**: “This morning, @HHSGov announced
the first 10 drugs covered under Medicare Part D that will be eligible
for negotiation. This was made possible by the Inflation Reduction Act,
a landmark law that I helped pass last year to bring relief to South
Texas Medicare beneficiaries.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepCuellar/status/1696527832531550387?s=20),
8/29/23\]  
  
**Texas Congresswoman Veronica Escobar**: “The Inflation Reduction Act
has truly been a historic step in the right direction. With today’s
announcement of medicine that will be negotiated by Medicare,
@HouseDemocrats are putting people over politics and lowering costs for
families nationwide.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepEscobar/status/1696551499650965582?s=20),
8/29/23\]  
  
**Texas Congresswoman Sylvia Garcia**: “Today, the Biden Administration
announced the first 10 Medicare Part D drugs that were selected for
price negotiation.  💊👩‍⚕️ We’re working hard to bring drug prices down
for our seniors.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepSylviaGarcia/status/1696563598024229166?s=20),
8/29/23\]  
  
**Texas Congressman Colin Allred**: “With the passage of the Inflation
Reduction Act, we took on Big Pharma and won – and now we are finally
lowering drug costs for seniors on Medicare. About 9 million folks on
Medicare with diabetes, rheumatoid arthritis, heart failure and more use
these drugs to stay alive and now Medicare will negotiate a fair price.
My mom is on Medicare and is a breast cancer survivor so I know how
important it is that we keep working to lower costs for folks across the
board. Let’s build on this progress and extend savings from the
Inflation Reduction Act to folks on the private market.”
\[[Statement](https://allred.house.gov/media/press-releases/allred-promises-keep-working-lower-costs-medicare-makes-historic-announcement),
8/29/23\]  
  
**Virginia Congresswoman Jennifer McClellan**: “These 10 drugs account
for billions of dollars in Medicare Part D spending each year. Now,
Medicare can negotiate their prices, which will cut costs and save
consumers money. This is the \#InflationReductionAct in action.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepMcClellan/status/1696512661842809056?s=20),
8/29/23\]  
  
**Virginia Congressman Don Beyer**: “Last year Democrats passed a law to
lower costs of key medicines by allowing Medicare to negotiate drug
prices. Today the Biden Administration announced the first set of drugs
subject to the law. Millions of Americans will see prescription prices
drop.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepDonBeyer/status/1696567763563905448?s=20),
8/29/23\]  
  
**Virginia Congresswoman Abigail Spanberger**: “Today, @POTUS announced
the first 10 drugs for Medicare price negotiation. For years, the top
issue I’ve heard from Virginia seniors is high prescription drug costs.
That’s why I was proud to vote for the Inflation Reduction Act to save
Virginians money.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/SpanbergerVA07/status/1696500184941842653?s=20),
8/29/23\]  
  
**Washington Congresswoman Pramila Jayapal**: “This is HUGE. Thanks to
the Inflation Reduction Act, Medicare is now announcing the first
prescription drugs they’ll negotiate pricing for — meaning lower costs
for all of us. Democrats are delivering!”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepJayapal/status/1696511175704359242?s=20),
8/29/23\]  
  
**Washington Congressman Derek Kilmer**: “Thanks to the Inflation
Reduction Act, @CMSGov announced the first ten drugs selected for
Medicare Price Negotiation earlier this morning. Soon, the IRA will
finally allow Medicare to negotiate lower prescription drug costs for
folks in Washington state.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepDerekKilmer/status/1696602366823276866?s=20),
8/29/23\]  
  
**Washington Congresswoman Suzan DelBene**: “The Inflation Reduction Act
allows Medicare to negotiate for cheaper prescription drugs for the
first time ever. The Biden admin announced today the drugs it will
negotiate for first. This will bring down drug prices for seniors &
lower costs for taxpayers.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepDelBene/status/1696561094935101837?s=20),
8/29/23\]  
  
**Wisconsin Congresswoman Gwen Moore**: “For decades, Big Pharma has
blocked Medicare from negotiating lower prescription drug costs for
seniors. That ends today. President Biden and Democrats passed the
Inflation Reduction Act to take on Big Pharma, overcoming opposition
from every Republican in Congress.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/RepGwenMoore/status/1696541144740442113?s=20),
8/29/23\]  
  
**State and Local Government Officials**  
  
***Governors***  
  
**New York Governor Kathy Hochul: “**Over 3.8 million New Yorkers rely
on Medicare for life-saving medication. Thanks to @POTUS & Democrats in
Congress, Medicare can now negotiate drug prices. Today’s announcement
is a major step towards lowering costs & giving New Yorkers the relief
they need & deserve.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/GovKathyHochul/status/1696548438823829515?s=20),
9/29.23\]  
  
**California Governor Newsom:** “California has long led the way in
seeking to make health care more affordable, from expanding Medi-Cal
eligibility to our CalRx initiative. Today, @POTUS announced efforts to
tackle the steep price of prescription drugs for older adults—reining in
Big Pharma’s profits.”
\[[Tweet](https://x.com/cagovernor/status/1696677217907204163?s=51&t=au4Pc1pe8Tss_-QZrGU0vA),
8/29/23\]  
  
**Connecticut Governor Ned Lamont: “**I applaud @POTUS Biden for taking
efforts to drive down the costs of prescription drugs. Access to
affordable and quality health care is one of most important issues our
seniors face.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/GovNedLamont/status/1696615746498142713),
8/29/23\]  
  
***State Legislators***  
  
**Connecticut State Senator Bob Duff:** “Today, the Centers for Medicare
and Medicaid Services released the first 10 drugs selected for Medicare
Price Negotiation – a critical provision under the Inflation Reduction
Act that will finally allow Medicare to negotiate lower prescription
drug costs for seniors & others.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/senatorduff/status/1696607384330965167?s=61&t=hoivx2Xk-Jmm1MKn_NeUvQ),
9/29/23\]  
  
**Georgia State Representative Michelle Au:** “And the list of drugs is:
Eliquis & Xarelto (prevents strokes, 🩸 clots) Jardiance (treats
diabetes, 🫀 failure) Januvia (treats diabetes) Farxiga (treats
diabetes, 🫀 failure, kidney dz) Entresto (treats 🫀 failure) Enbrel
(treats arthritis, other autoimmune dz)  Imbruvica (treats 🩸 cancers)
Stelara (treats Crohn’s dz) Fiasp & NovoLog (insulin products) The
program is projected to save Medicare ~ $98.5B over 10y, eventually ⬇️ 
insurance costs for seniors.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/AuforGA/status/1696592676525580502),
8/29/23\]  
  
**Pennsylvania State Senator Maria Collett:** “No senior should have to
choose between filling their presciption and paying rent. I’m excited to
see @POTUS announce the first 10 drugs selected for Medicare Price
Negotiations – drugs used to treat common diseases like diabetes, heart
disease, arthritis, blood clots + cancers.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/SenatorCollett/status/1696574999904088159),
8/29/23\]  
  
**Wisconsin State Senator Melissa Agard:** “Wisconsinites should be able
to access the necessary care and medication they need when they need it
at an affordable price. Thank you @POTUS for lowering the costs of
life-saving prescriptions for seniors in Wisconsin.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/SenatorAgard/status/1696595559144882563),
8/29/23\]  
  
  
**AGING ADVOCATES**  
  
**Jo Ann Jenkins, CEO, AARP:** “BIG NEWS: Today’s announcement from  
@CMSGov is an important first step toward allowing Medicare to use its
bargaining power to negotiate lower drug prices and bring relief to
millions of Americans who rely on these life-sustaining medications.
Despite overwhelming public support for allowing Medicare to negotiate
lower prices, big drug companies continue trying to stop it so they can
keep padding their profits. @AARP will not back down from this fight
until all older Americans can afford the medications they need.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/JoAnn_Jenkins/status/1696495669169508840?s=20),
8/29/23\]  
  
**Nancy LeaMond, Executive Vice President and Chief Advocacy &
Engagement Officer, AARP:** “🚨BREAKING🚨:  The Administration just
released a list of the first 10 drugs for Medicare price negotiation. 
This is a critical step to bring down out-of-control drug prices. For
too long, big drug companies have padded their profits at the expense of
American lives. The number one reason seniors skip or ration their
prescriptions is because they can’t afford them. That’s why AARP fought
to have Medicare price negotiation passed into law . . . and why we will
keep fighting against any efforts to undo or weaken it. It’s impossible
to overstate how monumental this law is for older Americans’ financial
stability and overall health.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/NancyLeaMond/status/1696496224579330052?s=20),
[Statement](https://www.aarp.org/politics-society/advocacy/info-2023/medicare-releases-drug-price-negotiations-list.html),
8/29/23\]  
  
**Judith Stein, Executive Director and Founder, Center for Medicare
Advocacy**: “This is the next major step in a critical effort to address
out-of-control drugs costs in the Medicare program, “We applaud the
Biden Administration for protecting beneficiaries’ access to reasonably
priced medications and the Medicare program’s fiscal solvency. We urge
HHS to zealously defend against baseless lawsuits filed by the
pharmaceutical industry seeking to defeat these critical consumer
protections.”
\[[Statement](https://medicareadvocacy.org/news-release-medicare-announces-first-10-drugs-subject-to-price-negotiation/),
08/29/23\]  
  
**Medicare Rights Center:** “The Medicare Rights Center applauds a
historic milestone achieved by the IRA through its prescription drug
price negotiation program. This program will provide relief for millions
of people with Medicare and reduce the difficult choices they face when
it comes to affording their medications. Our national helpline receives
calls daily from older adults and people with disabilities who struggle
to pay for their prescriptions. Often, they have to choose between
medication and basic needs like food or rent. By allowing Medicare to
negotiate lower prices with drug companies, the IRA will reduce the
burden on beneficiaries and improve access to affordable care. These
critical changes are long overdue. We look forward to the continued
implementation of this landmark law. Several provisions already in
place—such as no-cost Part D vaccines, lower coinsurance on some Part B
drugs, and the $35 monthly insulin limit—are helping beneficiaries build
health and financial security. Next year, even more Medicare enrollees
will feel the law’s benefits. In 2024, the IRA will expand the Part D
Low Income Subsidy to help people with incomes up to 150% of the federal
poverty level pay for their prescriptions. It will also eliminate the 5%
coinsurance requirement for beneficiaries who reach the catastrophic
coverage phase, finally protecting Part D enrollees from limitless and
uncertain costs. These policies will meaningfully strengthen health care
access and affordability for all people with Medicare.”
\[[Statement](https://www.medicarerights.org/media-center/centers-for-medicare-medicaid-services-announces-first-10-medicare-part-d-drugs-subject-to-negotiation-under-the-inflation-reduction-act-ira),
8/29/23\]  
  
**Max Richtman, President and CEO, National Committee to Preserve Social
Security and Medicare:** “This is an historic day in the effort to lower
prescription drug prices for seniors.  The Biden administration has
released the names of the 10 life-saving drugs that will be subject —
for the first time ever — to price negotiation between Medicare and Big
Pharma.  The Inflation Reduction Act provides for this reform, in
addition to a $2,000 out-of-pocket cap for patients’ Medicare Part D
drug costs and penalties for drug-makers who hike prices above the rate
of inflation. Medicare price negotiation alone is expected to save
seniors and taxpayers billions of dollars in drug costs over next the
decade. This is a sea change in the government’s ability to lower
prescription drug prices for older Americans, who all too often are
compelled to ration medications or forgo filling prescriptions because
of soaring costs. NCPSSM has fought for Medicare to be empowered to
negotiate prices for some twenty years now. We look forward to working
with President Biden and the Congress to build on this groundbreaking
achievement. The next step is to enlarge the number and type of
medications subject to negotiation, to deliver maximum relief to seniors
on fixed incomes. No one should have to choose between groceries, rent,
or essential medications — especially our nation’s senior citizens.”
\[[Statement](https://www.ncpssm.org/documents/news-releases/historic-day-in-the-struggle-to-lower-seniors-drug-costs/),
8/29/23\]  
  
**National Committee to Preserve Social Security and Medicare:** “NCPSSM
policy director @danieladcock and NCPSSM president @MaxRichtman with
@potus at the White House today for the release of the list of drugs for
\#Medicare price negotiation with \#BigPharma!  We have been working
toward this goal for more than 20 years.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/NCPSSM/status/1696628057979715835?s=20),
8/29/23\]  
  
**Ramsey Alwin, CEO, National Council on Aging**: “Today’s announcement
is a game changer for the millions of older adults who rely on these
medications every day. Our research shows that the cost of chronic
conditions falls heaviest on women and people of color, who have the
fewest resources. Lower prices are a matter of equity. Health care and
medications are the highest expenses for older adults after housing. Too
often, they must make painful choices between paying for prescriptions
or paying the rent. Lower drug prices can’t come soon enough to relieve
some of this tremendous financial pressure. In a country as rich as
ours, every person should have access to affordable health care.
Allowing the government to negotiate on consumers’ behalf is a very
welcome step in that direction.”
\[[Statement](https://www.ncoa.org/article/ncoa-applauds-start-of-medicare-drug-price-negotiations),
08/29/23\]  
  
**Alex Lawson, Executive Director of Social Security Works:** “Just over
a year ago, President Joe Biden signed the Inflation Reduction Act,
giving Medicare the power to negotiate lower prices on prescription
drugs. Today, Biden announced the first ten drugs subject to
negotiation, and Big Pharma corporations are furious. These are among
the most outrageously priced drugs on the market, Pharma’s prized cash
cows. For the first time ever, our government will stop Pharma
corporations from charging as much as they want for life-saving and
life-sustaining medications. Over 8 million Medicare beneficiaries rely
on these medications. In 2022, Medicare spent $50.5 billion on them —
about 20 percent of total Part D prescription drug costs. Beneficiaries
paid $3.4 billion in out-of-pocket costs, which were as high as $6,497
per enrollee. This is just the beginning. Within a decade, Medicare will
have the power to negotiate lower prices on well over 100 drugs. That’s
a huge win for seniors and people with disabilities. This is the biggest
defeat Big Pharma has ever suffered — and it won’t be the last. We are
going to keep fighting until every single person in America can get the
medications they need.”
\[[Statement](https://socialsecurityworks.org/2023/08/29/medicare-negotiation-is-a-defeat-for-pharma-and-a-win-for-seniors/),
8/29/23\]  
  
**Union and Labor Leaders**  
  
**Richard Fiesta, Executive Director, Alliance for Retired Americans**:
“It’s a landmark day for older Americans. For the first time, the price
Medicare pays for ten of the most expensive prescription drugs will be
determined at a negotiating table, not in a corporate boardroom. This
day would not have happened without the leadership of President Biden
who made sure that the Inflation Reduction Act included strong action to
lower the prices older Americans pay for prescription drugs. Thanks to
him, seniors are paying less for some of their drugs today, and prices
will continue to go down in the coming years. Of course, Americans have
paid the highest prices for prescription drugs for decades and older
Americans have borne the brunt of this crisis. The drug industry has had
unfettered monopoly power over drug prices for too long, and we welcome
this important step toward putting patients ahead of drug corporation
profits.”
\[[Statement](https://retiredamericans.org/retirees-applaud-release-of-the-first-ten-drugs-that-medicare-will-negotiate-prices-for-with-drug-corporations/),
08/29/23\]  
  
**Randi Weingarten, President, American Federation of Teachers (AFT):**
“Where politicians of all stripes have tried and failed for decades to
take on Big Pharma and curb the extortionate cost of prescription drugs,
today President Joe Biden has delivered. Medicare finally has the power
to bargain lower prices for tens of millions of Americans who rely on
lifesaving medication but scramble desperately to afford it. And it is
using that power to help our seniors.  Americans will soon see deep
discounts on 10 widely used drugs that currently cost $3.4 billion out
of pocket—including blood thinners and treatments for diabetes, heart
disease and cancer—with many more set to be added. Crucially, these
negotiations will affect the broader commercial market and union
members’ benefit plans, reducing prices for both employers and workers.
The United States shamefully pays more than any other industrialized
nation for medication, and the Biden administration—and Congress—heard
Americans’ pleas and said, ‘enough is enough.’ And with insulin already
capped at $35 a month for those on Medicare, the president’s commitment
to easing the squeeze on the middle class couldn’t be clearer.”
\[[Statement](https://www.aft.org/press-release/afts-weingarten-president-biden-delivering-huge-reductions-cost-prescription-drugs),
08/29/23\]  
  
**Mary Kay Henry**, **International President, Service Employees
International Union (SEIU)**: “I’m just leaving the White House event
where President Biden celebrated lowering prescription drug costs for
seniors!”
\[[Statement](https://x.com/marykayhenry/status/1696599743953244350?s=51&t=au4Pc1pe8Tss_-QZrGU0vA),
8/29/23\]  
  
**American Federation of Teachers Union**: “Thanks to President Biden &
Congressional Democrats, the
[\#InflationReductionAct](https://twitter.com/hashtag/InflationReductionAct?src=hashtag_click)
is saving seniors & working families over $160B on much-needed
medications. That’s huge.” \[
[Tweet](https://twitter.com/AFTunion/status/1696585002560213100?s=20),
08/29/23\]  
  
**More Perfect Union:** “Biden has announced the first 10 prescription
drugs his administration will target for lower Medicare prices. Six
pharma giants are suing over this attempt to lower prices. What they
don’t want you to know is the companies that make these 10 drugs earned
$38.7 billion in 2022.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/MorePerfectUS/status/1696532852287189419),
8/29/23\]  
  
**Mary Kay Henry, President, SEIU: “**I’m just leaving the White House
event where President Biden celebrated lowering prescription drug costs
for seniors!”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/MaryKayHenry/status/1696599743953244350),
8/29/23\]  
  
**HEALTH**  
  
**Ceci Connolly, Pesident and CEO, Alliance for Community Health Care
Plans:** “As the only national payer organization that supported robust
drug pricing reform, including allowing direct government negotiation
for drugs without competition, we are pleased by the White House’s
announcement of the first ten drugs to be negotiated. For far too long,
prescription drug prices have been out of control and it’s time to rein
in skyrocketing drug costs. This announcement demonstrates the
administration’s commitment to using price negotiation to provide
financial relief to consumers. ‘This is a great first step for drug
affordability, no matter what the bullies at Big Pharma say. Despite all
their threats and lawsuits, we know we are on the right path toward
better health care for all. Looking ahead, we will continue urging
Congress to extend the IRA’s drug negotiation provisions to the
commercial market.” \[Statement, 8/29/23\]  
  
**Health Care for America Now**: “BREAKING NEWS – Medicare just
announced the first-ever drugs that will have negotiated prices. This
historic announcement comes after decades of fighting to make medicines
affordable for patients.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/HCAN/status/1696500049532829983?s=20),
08/29/23\]  
  
**KFF (Kaiser Family Foundation):** “Today, the Biden Administration
announced the 10 drugs subject to negotiation under the Inflation
Reduction Act. The CBO has estimated that the drug negotiation provision
in the \#InflationReductionAct will reduce the federal deficit by $100
billion over 10 years. Here’s how ⤵️ KFF explains how the drug price
negotiation program will work under the law, with a focus on 2026 — the
first year negotiated prices will be available. We also explain how
people with Medicare may benefit from the negotiated prices. Allowing
the federal government to negotiate some drug prices on behalf of
Medicare beneficiaries is popular. 81% of the public — including 77% of
Republicans and Republican-leaners — support this move.”
\[[Tweets](https://twitter.com/KFF/status/1696500289145081922?s=20),
8/29/23\]  
  
**Bari Talente, Executive Vice President of Advocacy and Healthcare
Access, National Multiple Sclerosis Society**: “*Society Applauds CMS
Announcement of Prescription Drugs Selected for Medicare Negotiation.*
Today the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) announced the
first 10 prescription drugs that have been selected for which it will
negotiate lower prices for Medicare beneficiaries. This provision was
included in the Inflation Reduction Act, which was signed into law in
August 2022. ‘Today is an important milestone to help those who are
struggling to afford medications they need to live their best lives. For
the first time, CMS will be able to negotiate directly with prescription
drug manufacturers to make pr2escription drugs more affordable for
millions of Medicare beneficiaries while providing significant savings
to the Medicare program. The 10 drugs that have been selected by CMS are
used by millions of Americans every day and have been on the market for
a long time, without competition from generics or biosimilars. While no
MS disease-modifying therapies are currently on the list of drugs to be
negotiated, we know that people with MS utilize these selected drugs to
manage co-morbidities of MS.’ The Society looks forward to working with
the Administration and the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services to
implement all provisions of the Inflation Reduction Act, including a
$2,000 out-of-pocket cap for patients’ Medicare Part D drug costs and
penalties for drug-makers who hike prices above the rate of inflation,
to make the cost of prescription drugs more affordable and manageable
for the people that need them.”
\[[Statement](https://www.nationalmssociety.org/About-the-Society/News/Society-Applauds-CMS-Announcement-of-Prescription),
8/29/23\]  
  
**David Mitchell, a Cancer Patient and Founder, Patients For Affordable
Drugs Now:** “This is a momentous day for patients across the country.
Finally beginning to undo the nearly 20-year ban on Medicare using its
purchasing power to get lower prices, Medicare will now negotiate for a
better deal for these ten high-cost drugs. The list includes essential
life-saving medications – cancer treatments, blood thinners, autoimmune
disease treatments, diabetes drugs – that people in this country have
been paying unjustified amounts for decades, while drug companies have
used Medicare as a piggy bank raising prices to hit profit targets and
trigger executive bonuses. I am one of millions of people in this
country who take Eliquis (apixaban), a blood thinner that has a list
price of almost $7,000 in the U.S. because its maker, Bristol-Myers
Squibb, has blocked competition. In Canada, where there is a generic,
the price is less than $1,700. With negotiations, millions of patients
will finally get a more affordable price for drugs like Eliquis. We look
forward to continuing to work with CMS and the Department of Health and
Human Services (HHS) to ensure the law is implemented despite opposition
from Big Pharma, and that patients finally begin to get a better deal
for these ten high-priced medications and another 50 by 2029. We’ve been
waiting far too long for this relief. This is just the beginning and we
will continue pushing on all fronts to lower drug prices for everyone.”
\[Statement, 8/29/23\]  
  
**Protect Our Care:** “President Biden’s \#InflationReductionAct is
bringing down drug costs by giving Medicare the power to negotiate lower
drug costs. This extremely popular program will save seniors and
taxpayers tens of billions of dollars. 🙌”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/ProtectOurCare/status/1696586482134253850?s=20),
8/29/23\]  
  
**Peter Morley, Patient Advocate-Cancer Survivor, Lupus Warrior:**
“Health Care Awareness Month salutes President Biden for a Lowering Drug
Costs, for seniors and people with disabilities on Medicare. We were
honored to be at the White House today to celebrate this victory!
\#DemocratsLowerDrugCosts”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/morethanmySLE/status/1696617609268011504?s=20),
8/29/23\]  
  
**DISABILITY**  
  
**National Down Syndrome Congress:** NDSC Policy & Advocacy Director
Cyrus Huncharek attended an event today at the White House featuring
President Biden and Vice-President Harris on lowering the cost of
prescription drugs via Medicare. The Medicare program is important to
people with Down syndrome. \#Downsyndrome”
\[[Tweet](https://x.com/ndsc/status/1696675638701068379?s=51&t=au4Pc1pe8Tss_-QZrGU0vA),
8/29/23\]  
  
**LittleLobbyists**: “A BFD! The ability to negotiate Medicare drug
prices was part of the \#InflationReductionAct @TheDemocrats passed last
summer, which included a number of provisions to lower costs and make
health care more accessible. There’s lots more to do, but today let’s
celebrate the win!”
\[[Tweet](https://x.com/littlelobbyists/status/1696610369874059602?s=51&t=au4Pc1pe8Tss_-QZrGU0vA),
8/29/30\]  
  
**GENERAL**

**Tony Carrk, Executive Director, Accountable.US**: “Big drug companies
raked in billions in profits while standing in the way of lower
prescription drug costs for millions of seniors. The time of Big Pharma
grossly overcharging American seniors on life-saving medicines is coming
to an end. This historic achievement is still under threat, however,
because the MAGA House Majority is hellbent on repealing the Inflation
Reduction Act. They would rather pad the profits of their major industry
donors than help seniors who are literally choosing between food and
medicines.”
\[[Statement](https://api.neonemails.com/emails/content/nOsUolAV-jhDWNrFWlCcABE_GrfEUeNa74s6ivRcCWo=),
8/29/23\]**Mayra Macías, Interim Executive Director, Building Back
Together**: “For the first time in our history, Medicare will have the
authority to negotiate the cost of prescription drugs directly with
major drug manufacturers. For years, these major drug companies have
seen record-breaking profits made off the backs of Americans just trying
to make ends meet and stay healthy. That ends today. For Americans who
take vital medications like Eliquis, Jardiance, Xarelto, Januvia,
Farxiga, Entresto, Enbrel, Imbruvica, Stelara, and Fiasp/NovoLog, help
is on the way. Today’s announcement is all thanks to President Biden and
Democrats in Congress’ Inflation Reduction Act — and not thanks to any
Republican in Congress, all of whom voted against this historic
legislation. Despite the pharmaceutical industry spending nearly $400
million in lobbying last year alone to keep the cost of prescription
drugs out of reach for middle-class families across the country, the
Biden-Harris Administration is unwavering in their fight to lower costs
and to make sure that no one is denied essential care because of cost.”
\[[Statemen](https://buildingbacktogether.org/news/building-back-together-applauds-historic-drug-price-negotiation/)[t](https://buildingbacktogether.org/news/building-back-together-applauds-historic-drug-price-negotiation/),
8/29/23\]  
  
**Emily Gee, Senior Vice President for Inclusive Growth, Center for
American Progress:** “Today’s announcement is a watershed moment to make
lifesaving medications more affordable for millions of Americans on
Medicare. Millions of seniors rely on these drugs to treat cancer, blood
clots, and manage chronic conditions, including diabetes and heart
failure. The Biden administration is growing the middle class by giving
more Americans economic security, including better protections against
high health care costs. Through negotiation, the Biden administration is
taking on the greed of pharmaceutical companies, which have raked in
record profits by charging Americans exorbitant prices no other country
in the world would accept. It’s why Big Pharma fought so hard to stop
these reforms from passing in the Inflation Reduction Act and why they
and their allies are suing to stop these new reforms to lower drug
costs.”
\[[Statement](https://www.americanprogress.org/press/statement-initial-medicare-drug-price-negotiation-list-could-put-cash-back-in-seniors-pockets-caps-emily-gee-says/),
8/29/23\]  
  
**Fight Corporate Monopolies**: “The Biden Administration isn’t backing
down from giant corporations. Today it announced the first 10 drugs in
its new Medicare drug price program. Big Pharma will soon be forced to
lower prices on some of the most widely-used drugs in the country. This
is a big progressive win.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/fightmonopolies/status/1696607489934983318?s=20),
8/29/23\]

**Sky Gallegos, Executive Director, For Our Future:** “Medicare’s
ability to negotiate prescription drug prices is a tangible example of
how the Inflation Reduction Act is lowering costs and how President
Biden is delivering on his promises to make health care more affordable.
Seniors should not have to choose between putting food on the table and
life’s other necessities, and taking their prescription medication.
However, last year, these 10 prescription drugs alone – which treat
diabetes, heart disease, cancers, and more – cost seniors on Medicare
$3.4 billion in out-of-pocket costs. Thanks to the Inflation Reduction
Act, we are lowering these drug costs and seniors all across the country
can breathe a sigh of relief. The harsh reality is, this was made
possible by President Biden and Democrats in Congress *despite*
congressional Republicans in Congress, who voted unanimously against
this cost-lowering, life-saving legislation.”  \[Statement, 8/29/23\]

**Kitty Richards, Executive Director, Groundwork Collaborative: “**For
too long, millions of Americans have been forced to pay outrageous
prices for life-saving drugs while pharmaceutical companies extract
record profits. We applaud the Administration for using the power of
government to rein in the pharmaceutical industry’s profiteering and
begin building an economy where no one has to choose between life-saving
medications and paying their rent.”
\[[Statement](https://groundworkcollaborative.org/news/groundwork-praises-medicare-price-negotiation-announcement/),
8/29/23\]

**Indivisible:** “The Inflation Reduction Act is delivering — for our
climate and now for your wallet.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/IndivisibleTeam/status/1696616518212092077?s=20),
8/28/23\]**PIRG**: “The PIRG-backed Inflation Reduction Act gave the
Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) the ability to
negotiate lower prices for prescription prices. Today, CMS announced the
first ten medications that will be subject to price negotiation. About 8
million people will benefit from the lower prices obtained by the strong
negotiating power of the federal government. Among the medications
chosen, several are wrapped in patent thickets that mean a lower-cost
generic version of the drug is still years away. Price negotiation will
lower the cost of these drugs, even before a competing generic makes it
to market. And that means significant savings for the patients who need
them.”
\[[Statement](https://pirg.org/updates/lower-prices-coming-for-ten-of-the-most-expensive-prescription-drugs/),
8/29/23\]

**Emma Lydon, Managing Director, P Street:** “By cracking down on
corporate greed and reducing the price of life-saving medications, the
Biden Administration and Congressional Democrats are lowering costs for
millions of Americans. This is a historic achievement – one that
Republican politicians and Big Pharma executives fought tooth and nail
against by opposing the Inflation Reduction Act and prioritizing profits
over people.”  \[Statement, 8/29/23\]**Peter Maybarduk, Director of the
Access to Medicines Program,** [**Public
Citizen**](https://www.commondreams.org/tag/public-citizen): “The
negotiated drugs list is a watershed moment for medicine affordability.
Drug corporations pretend this is a catastrophe, but I would rather see
that money in seniors’ pockets than Big Pharma’s. Drug corporations, in
crude arrogance, are suing to limit price negotiations under the IRA.
But the list shows instead how important it is to expand those
negotiation powers. Several monopolized drugs that are expensive for
Medicare today are exempted from price negotiation, and will remain
expensive. One reason for this is a many-years long grace period after a
drug first comes to market. During those years, drugmakers will exploit
patent monopolies with minimal checks on profiteering. That profiteering
period is even longer for biologics, which comprise some of the most
exorbitantly priced drugs. IRA should be expanded and consistently
improved, toward supporting affordable medicine for all, rather than
limited or delayed to mollify pharma monopolists. The Biden
administration has our support as it resists unjust lawsuits and
implements the strongest possible IRA.”
\[[Statement](https://www.commondreams.org/newswire/white-house-drugs-list-shows-why-price-negotiation-powers-must-be-quickly-expanded#:~:text=%E2%80%9CDrug%20corporations%2C%20in%20crude%20arrogance,negotiation%2C%20and%20will%20remain%20expensive.),
8/29/23\]  
  
**Rhett Buttle, Senior Advisor, Small Business for America’s Future**:
“Today’s anticipated remarks by President Biden and the Department of
Health and Human Services (HHS) regarding prescription drugs is a
significant stride forward in addressing the soaring cost of healthcare,
a top concern in the small business community. For far too long, the
rising cost of healthcare has been a huge burden on small business
owners that has prevented them from hiring and retaining workers,
affecting their competitiveness in the labor market and cutting into
their bottom lines. Prescription drug costs are one of the key drivers
of high healthcare costs. A
[new](https://link.mediaoutreach.meltwater.com/ls/click?upn=OCpMavucL-2FBtpo3rL83O22GIY5LayrMJW1VAEbb95Hn6T2eVKRbng4YhMfNCuG8c3BWJoFGq3Wnj-2BGXKhk1qXeyQh42W0POZQU-2FaoKQcE85EH9awm6UdyOnHK9QCGZnEzX1bcyPjkIgxcztECNTlcAwOMCxRu4F-2FyPNxmydpGJVPcJVKPNJyB0f73-2FGfejwxFVuY_kBlCxyram13MUORApgunBgTxydzeEpoqFOGCF1d8maKVlFCBuhkw8Ob6h1KgRMxS-2BzocqD6xc4y3JZh-2BuhEpmjiJ7UxVTAe1Pm9j-2FTkho-2FIHY38rS003FZTPmN7ayZ1vH41WmsEp7GZkCott0LKIoumxsA-2FtsH4ozsUI9HNo3mUHbzAIAXhxTsD4vkSVFNMbM60blJO60t3NuhTm0joohJ-2BjuFrgOa8oScFvcnwhTMYg-2FlbpsHtLPreeog0KbPD-2FIjRPb8yu88-2Fm1djY-2BCBJan-2FW0LiNEMHQPmNs-2FVsNjvPQ476gPLh4YeiMzp9ti-2Fko-2B-2FPrr-2FOhzqK7nmTDoX4fTg9LkHvCsGTeweusDw-2BYZHBcu8qUPK7S8D7Wm4DRzYb8dyC9wthb-2Bc1inGMWgFSk2g-3D-3D)
survey conducted by Small Business for America’s Future and released
today reveals 50% of respondents anticipate that the reduced costs of
medications will have a positive financial impact on their businesses,
their families, or their employees. The survey also found that the
policy will have a direct impact on small business owners and their
employees with nearly one in four small business owners having employees
enrolled in Medicare and nearly a third of small business owners
themselves are enrolled. Addressing healthcare costs can help continue
the positive momentum of our economy with solid new jobs numbers and
near record low unemployment. I am urging lawmakers on both sides of the
aisle to take a strong look at other policies that can continue to help
combat high healthcare costs.”
\[[Statement](https://www.smallbusinessforamericasfuture.org/press-releases),
8/29/23\]

**Sarah Baron, Campaign Director, Unrig Our Economy:** “While Biden and
congressional Democrats fought fiercely to include Medicare’s ability to
negotiate lower drug costs as part of the Inflation Reduction Act,
Republicans chose to vote “NO” on lower drug prices for hard-working
Americans. We’re thrilled to see the Administration begin to lower drug
prices despite Republican opposition and look forward to seeing more
drug prices negotiated down in the future.”
\[[Statement](https://unrigoureconomy.com/news/congressional-democrats-are-cutting-costs-of-10-life-saving-drugs-while-republicans-protect-big-pharmas-historic-profits/),
8/29/23\]  
  
**Shelbie Swartz, Interim Executive Director, Battle Born Progress:
“**Today represents another major milestone in what has been a long
journey toward finally making medicines affordable for millions of
people in Medicare. President Biden and Democrats in Congress kept their
promises to lower health costs last year by passing this historic reform
that will finally enable Medicare to negotiate prices on the most
expensive medicines in Part D including Xarelto, Eliquis, Januvia,
Jardiance, and Xtandi. Once implemented, 5 to 7 million more Medicare
patients will save money on treating everything from diabetes to cancer
and taxpayers can expect to save over $98 billion over the next decade.
That means people like our team member Lisa Lynn Chapman’s mother,
Teddie Lynn Brewer, will no longer be forced to pay exorbitant prices
simply to stay healthy and can finally have some hope that the medicine
they need will be affordable rather than having to skip doses, ration
the medicine or go into debt to buy prescriptions. Selecting these drugs
is just the first step. Now, CMS will have to move forward aggressively
to negotiate with the drug corporations in order to arrive at fair
prices that patients can afford. Rather than fight the new law with
frivolous lawsuits, the drug corporations should cooperate.  Johnson &
Johnson (Jansen), Bristol Myers Squibb, Merck and Eli Lilly/Boehringer
Ingelheim, and Pfizer/Astellas have made billions from patients already.
Negotiations will lower prices and still allow them to make a profit but
without the relentless price-gouging that hurts patients and Medicare.”
\[Statement, 8/29/23\]  
  
**Steven Hadfield of Matthews, North Carolina, who lives with a rare
cancer and type 2 diabetes:** “After years of having to forgo or ration
some of my drugs because of their high costs, I can’t tell you what it
means for me to see Januvia on the list of the first drugs for Medicare
negotiation,’ said ‘To treat my diabetes, I take Januvia, which carries
a monthly list price of $547. Drugmaker Merck has made a fortune from
patients like me who are forced to pay whatever price the company
dictates. A fairer price for Januvia will mean a world of difference.”
\[Statement from Patients for Affordable Drugs, 8/29/23\]  
  
**Ellen Farmer, who lives in Attleboro, Massachusetts and takes blood
thinner Xarelto to treat her atrial fibrillation: “**I was shocked and
terrified when the pharmacist told me the monthly copay for Xarelto
after insurance would be $1,000. There was no way I could afford that!
Johnson & Johnson, the drug company that makes Xarelto, has increased
the price of its medicine by more than 111 percent since it first
entered the market 12 years ago. The fact that Xarelto is on the first
list of drugs to be negotiated gives me so much relief.” \[Statement
from Patients for Affordable Drugs, 8/29/23\]  
  
**Judy Aiken of Portland, Maine who lives with autoimmune disease
psoriatic arthritis and psoriasis:** “Enbrel costs me around $330 a
month with my Medicare advantage plan – and its list price is over
$7,000. This type of pricing unfairly takes advantage of those on
Medicare, many of whom, like me, live on a fixed income. Seeing Enbrel
on the list of drugs to be negotiated first allows me to take a deeper
breath and honestly live a better life. Enbrel’s high price has been a
real burden, a constant anxiety. A better deal on this drug is life
changing for me and thousands of patients.” \[Statement from Patients
for Affordable Drugs, 8/29/23\]  
  
**Esther Lumm, of Honest, Arizona, who lives with diabetes: “**Diabetes
is a life-long disease that requires constant attention and easy,
reliable access to insulin and other medications to keep the disease in
check. For Arizonans on Medicare like myself, rising and unpredictable
prescription drug costs are a threat to our health care and to our
ability to make ends meet. I’m grateful to the members of our
congressional delegation who passed the Inflation Reduction Act and to
the Biden administration for placing a check on the pharmaceutical
corporations to make these prescriptions more affordable.” \[Statement,
8/29/23\]

**COALITIONS/CONSTITUENCY**  
  
**Juliet K. Choi, President and CEO, Asian & Pacific Islander American
Health Forum:** “We applaud the Biden administration for taking decisive
action to expand benefits and lower drug costs for all Americans. We
encourage drug manufacturers to work with the Biden administration to
make these lifesaving and life-changing products available to recipients
of Medicare at a reduced cost. For example, Asian Americans, Native
Hawaiians and Pacific Islanders are at higher risk for diabetes, and our
communities have already seen the positive impact of insulin costs
capped at $35 monthly under the Inflation Reduction Act. The first ten
drugs will provide immediate financial relief to millions of
hard-working families.”
\[[Statement](https://www.apiahf.org/press-release/biden-administration-announces-first-10-drugs-for-medicare-negotiation/),
8/29/23\]  
  
**Latino Victory**: “After decades of fighting Big Pharma,
[@POTUS](https://twitter.com/POTUS) announced the first-ever drugs that
will have lower prices for Medicare recipients, thanks to the Inflation
Reduction Act which allows Medicare to negotiate prices with drug
manufacturers. Here are the first 10 eligible drugs”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/latinovictoryus/status/1696558514540298500?s=20),
8/29/23\]

**Derrick Johnson, President and CEO, NAACP:** “Today, we celebrate a
historic shift in healthcare. For far too long, Black, and other
vulnerable Americans have had their health neglected by a system that is
rooted in racism. The lowering of prescription drugs offers seniors and
people living with disabilities a crucial lifeline and symbolizes a much
needed step in the right direction to make healthcare more affordable
for those who are most in need. The NAACP is committed to creating a
system where everyone has access to the healthcare services they
deserve. We applaud the Biden-Administration for their progress towards
racial equity and look forward to our continued, collaborative work to
ensure that Black voices are centered in all key policy decisions.”
\[[Statement](https://naacp.org/articles/naacp-commends-biden-administration-historic-move-lower-prescription-drug-costs),
8/30/23\]

**Idris Robinson, National Director of Health and Well-Being, NAACP:**
“This is great news for seniors, working people, and the millions of
Americans still struggling to afford life-saving medications. But this
is just the beginning. We must recognize the deep disparities that still
exist and continue the fight for health equity. Our lives depend on
it.” 
\[[Statement](https://naacp.org/articles/naacp-commends-biden-administration-historic-move-lower-prescription-drug-costs),
8/30/23\]  
  
**UnidosUS**: “This is a great day for the 5 million Latinos on
[\#Medicare](https://twitter.com/hashtag/Medicare?src=hashtag_click),
half of whom have diabetes, which can be treated by 4 of the 10 drugs on
this list. This is a huge step for
[\#healthequity](https://twitter.com/hashtag/healthequity?src=hashtag_click)
for all.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/WeAreUnidosUS/status/1696545804540952607?s=20),
8/29/23\]  
  
**Solidarity Strategies**: “Presidente trabaja para poner fin a los días
donde se tenía que elegir entre comprar medicina o poner comida sobre la
mesa.”
\[[Tweet](https://twitter.com/SolidarityLLC/status/1696525970478711174?s=20),
8/29/23\]

*\###*
