---
date: '2023-08-30'
modified_time: 2023-08-30 22:32:33-04:00
published_time: 2023-08-30 21:59:24-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/08/30/readout-of-white-house-meeting-with-governor-hochul/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Readout of White\_House Meeting with Governor\_Hochul"
---
 
Today, Senior Administration Officials met with New York Governor
Kathy Hochul to discuss the ongoing efforts by the Biden-Harris
Administration to build a humane, safe, and orderly immigration system
and efforts the Administration has taken to support communities across
the country who are housing migrants and asylum seekers. 

The Administration officials and Governor agreed on a number of actions.

First, following the deployment of a Department of Homeland Security
assessment team, the Administration highlighted data indicating that a
substantial number of recent migrants who arrived in New York City are
currently work eligible but have not yet applied to get a work
permit. For example, nationwide, only around 16% of working age CBP
One entrants have applied for work authorization. To date, roughly 20%
of the noncitizens indicating New York, New Jersey, or Pennsylvania as
their intended destination this year were paroled in following an
appointment scheduled through CBP One and are eligible to work
immediately, if they apply.  

In September, the Administration will work with New York State and New
York City on a month of action to help close the gap between noncitizens
who are eligible for work authorization and those who have applied, to
meet labor needs in New York.  In the meeting, Administration officials
committed to launching a first-of-its-kind national campaign –
for individuals who are work-eligible but have not yet applied for work
authorization – with information on how to apply for employment
authorization. The individuals will receive direct communication by SMS
and email, in English, Spanish, Haitian Creole, and other
languages. This effort will include sending teams working across several
lines of effort to support eligible migrants to apply for work
authorizations. 

Second, the Administration officials and the Governor discussed a number
of additional steps that federal Departments and Agencies – including
the Departments of Health and Human Services, the Department of
Education, the Department of Housing and Urban Development, and the
Department of Interior – will take to support New York – including
support for the health, education, and housing of recent arrivals.  

The Administration officials and the Governor reiterated
their commitment to continuing these conversations in the days and weeks
ahead, and are calling on Congress to adequately resource programs to
support communities receiving migrants and to pass immigration reform.
 The Administration requested $600 million additional for the Shelter
and Services Program in the Supplemental, and we continue to call on
Congress to fulfil that request.

\###
