---
date: '2023-08-03'
published_time: 2023-08-03 07:09:16-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/08/03/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-high-speed-internet-investments-spur-made-in-america-manufacturing-boom/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden-\u2060Harris Administration High-Speed Internet Investments\
  \ Spur Made-in-America Manufacturing\_Boom"
---
 
Today in Wisconsin, Vice President Kamala Harris will visit Nokia and
Sanmina Corporation in Pleasant Prairie, Kenosha County, Wisconsin to
highlight the Biden-Harris Administration’s efforts to invest in
high-speed internet, boost domestic manufacturing, and create good jobs.
Vice President Harris’ visit coincides with Nokia announcing the
manufacturing of broadband network electronics products for the BEAD
program in the U.S. that will add up to 200 new jobs at Sanmina
Corporation’s state-of-the-art manufacturing facility in Pleasant
Prairie, Kenosha County, Wisconsin. The announcement will make Nokia the
first telecom company to begin manufacturing broadband
electronics products in the United States in 2024. The Vice President
will be joined by Commerce Secretary Gina Raimondo and Senator Tammy
Baldwin.

The announcement is the latest in a string of domestic manufacturing
announcements that have been spurred by the Biden-Harris
Administration’s high-speed internet investments and Made-in-America
policies, part of the President’s Investing in America agenda and a
clear sign that Bidenomics is working. Across the high-speed internet
industry, most electronics products are not currently manufactured in
the U.S., but Buy America provisions in the Bipartisan Infrastructure
Law are driving the onshoring of new manufacturing, particularly ahead
of implementation of the $42.45 billion Broadband Equity, Access and
Deployment (BEAD) program.

Just as Franklin Delano Roosevelt’s Rural Electrification Act brought
electricity to nearly every home and farm in America, President Biden
and Vice President Harris are delivering on their historic commitment to
connect everyone in America to affordable, reliable high-speed internet
by the end of the decade. The Biden-Harris Administration’s historic
Internet For All initiative is investing $90 billion to bring
affordable, reliable high-speed internet service to every community in
America is creating good-paying manufacturing jobs and revitalizing the
domestic broadband manufacturing industry.  

Other recent private sector domestic manufacturing announcements
include:

-   Corning, a producer of optical fiber and cable, celebrated the
    expansion of its U.S. manufacturing capacity with the opening of a
    new manufacturing campus near Hickory, North Carolina.  The more
    than $500 million investment to build fiber in the U.S. adds
    hundreds of manufacturing jobs to Corning’s more than 5,000
    employees in the state.
-   CommScope**,** a provider of broadband network equipment, recently
    announced a $60 million investment towards expanding its U.S. fiber
    optic cable manufacturing at its facility in Catawba, North
    Carolina. This investment will create more than 250 new jobs over
    the next five years, and create a fiber optic cable, “HeliARC” which
    is specifically designed for rural fiber network architecture.
-   Prysmian, a manufacturer of optical fiber and fiber optic cable,
    announced a $30 million investment to convert its Jackson,
    Tennessee, copper cable facility into a state-of-the-art fiber optic
    cable manufacturing plant. As part of this plant retrofitting,
    Prysmian transitioned their workforce, retraining and retaining
    nearly 90% of employees. Prysmian has made a significant effort to
    hire and train female manufacturing workers, who make up 42% of
    plant employees compared to an industry average of about 25%.

Buy Americarequirements are key to ensuring we maximize the economic
potential of the Internet for All initiative. Manufacturing the iron,
steel, fiber, and construction materials needed to deliver affordable,
reliable high-speed internet service to millions of Americans is an
opportunity to create jobs right here at home. Funds for the BEAD
program will be used to purchase items manufactured in the U.S., such as
iron, steel, and fiber. Additional specific rules for spending BEAD
program funds are forthcoming.  

As President Biden said in his State of the Union address, “We’re making
sure that every community — every community in America has access to
affordable, high-speed Internet… I’m also announcing new standards to
require all construction materials used in federal infrastructure
projects to be made in America. Made in America. I mean it. Lumber,
glass, drywall, fiber-optic cable.”

Today’s announcement is part of President Biden’s Investing in America
Agenda, which includes the historic investments from the Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law, Inflation Reduction Act, the CHIPS and Science Act,
and the American Rescue Plan. Together, these investments are unleashing
a manufacturing boom, helping rebuild our infrastructure and bring back
supply chains, lowering costs for hardworking families, and creating
jobs that don’t require a four-year degree across the country. The
private sector has already invested more than $500 billion in new
manufacturing here in America, including for semiconductors, electric
batteries, EV charging, rail manufacturing, water parts and more.

\###
