---
date: '2023-08-08'
modified_time: 2023-08-07 21:49:04-04:00
published_time: 2023-08-08 05:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/08/08/fact-sheet-president-biden-designates-baaj-nwaavjo-itah-kukveni-ancestral-footprints-of-the-grand-canyon-national-monument/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: President\_Biden Designates Baaj Nwaavjo I\u2019tah Kukveni \u2013\
  \ Ancestral Footprints of the Grand Canyon National\_Monument"
---
 
*New monument – marking fifth new National Monument created by President
Biden – will conserve nearly 1 million acres of greater Grand Canyon
landscape sacred to Tribal Nations and Indigenous peoples and advance
President Biden’s historic climate and conservation agenda  
*  
*In conjunction with the President’s visit, Biden-Harris Administration
announces $44 million investment to strengthen climate resilience across
America’s National Parks system*

Since day one, President Biden has delivered on the most ambitious
climate and conservation agenda in American history. That includes the
President’s *America the Beautiful Initiative*, which is supporting
locally led conservation efforts across the country with a goal to
conserve and restore 30 percent of U.S. lands and waters by 2030.

Today, as part of the Biden-Harris Administration’s unprecedented
commitment to protect America’s natural wonders for future generations,
honor culturally significant areas, and tell a more complete story of
our nation, President Biden will sign a proclamation establishing the
Baaj Nwaavjo I’tah Kukveni – Ancestral Footprints of the Grand Canyon
National Monument in Arizona. Baaj nwaavjo (BAAHJ – NUH-WAAHV-JOH) means
“where Indigenous peoples roam” in the Havasupai language, and i’tah
kukveni (EE-TAH – KOOK-VENNY) means “our ancestral footprints” in the
Hopi language. The name reflects the significance of the Grand Canyon
area, not just to one, but to many Tribal Nations.

This designation, which marks the fifth new national monument
established by President Biden, honors Tribal Nations and Indigenous
peoples by protecting sacred ancestral places and their historically and
scientifically important features, while conserving our public lands,
protecting wildlife habitat and clean water, and supporting local
economies.

Baaj Nwaavjo I’tah Kukveni – Ancestral Footprints of the Grand Canyon
National Monument will conserve nearly 1 million acres of public lands
surrounding Grand Canyon National Park. The new monument protects
thousands of cultural and sacred sites that are precious to Tribal
Nations in the Southwest – including the Havasupai Tribe, Hopi Tribe,
Hualapai Tribe, Kaibab Band of Paiute Indians, Las Vegas Paiute Tribe,
Moapa Band of Paiutes, Paiute Indian Tribe of Utah, Navajo Nation, San
Juan Southern Paiute Tribe, Yavapai-Apache Nation, Pueblo of Zuni, and
the Colorado River Indian Tribes. These sites include Gray Mountain,
called Dziłbeeh by the Navajo, which is a part of Navajo ceremonial
songs, stories, and rituals. The President will sign the proclamation at
Red Butte, a sacred site called Wii’i Gdwiisa by the Havasupai, which
towers above the southern portion of the monument.

Today, in conjunction with the President’s visit to Arizona, and ahead
of the 1-year anniversary of the Inflation Reduction Act, the
Biden-Harris Administration is also announcing $44 million to strengthen
climate resilience across America’s iconic National Parks system,
including 43 projects across 39 states, Washington, D.C., Puerto Rico,
and the U.S. Virgin Islands. To mark this announcement and uplift the
latest climate and conservation actions by the Biden-Harris
Administration, Second Gentleman Douglas Emhoff and the Department of
the Interior’s Assistant Secretary for Fish and Wildlife and Parks
Shannon Estenoz will travel tomorrow to Grand Teton National Park in
Wyoming. Through his Investing in America agenda, the President has
delivered record funding for conservation, climate action, and
environmental justice.

The Biden-Harris Administration is committed to honoring and respecting
Tribal sovereignty, protecting Tribal homelands, and incorporating
Indigenous Knowledge and robust Tribal consultation into planning and
decision-making. Today’s designation supports Tribally led conservation
efforts and helps address injustices of the past, including when Tribes
were forcibly removed from lands that later became Grand Canyon National
Park.

The new Baaj Nwaavjo I’tah Kukveni – Ancestral Footprints of the Grand
Canyon National Monument joins other iconic places protected by the
Biden-Harris Administration, including Avi Kwa Ame National Monument in
Nevada, Castner Range National Monument in Texas, Camp Hale-Continental
Divide National Monument in Colorado, Bristol Bay and the Tongass
National Forest in Alaska, and the Boundary Waters Canoe Area Wilderness
and surrounding watershed in Minnesota. 

**<u>Baaj Nwaavjo I’tah Kukveni – Ancestral Footprints of the Grand
Canyon National Monument  
</u>**  
The Baaj Nwaavjo I’tah Kukveni – Ancestral Footprints of the Grand
Canyon National Monument protects and preserves the rich cultural,
ecological, scientific, historic, and scenic value of the greater Grand
Canyon landscape. Today’s monument designation protects these sacred
places for cultural and spiritual uses, while respecting existing
livestock grazing permits and preserving access for hunting and fishing.

The new monument is made up of three distinct areas to the south,
northeast, and northwest of Grand Canyon National Park. It is bordered
by the Kanab watershed boundary and Kanab Creek drainage in the
northwestern area and the Havasupai Indian Reservation and Navajo Nation
in the southern area, and stretches from Marble Canyon to the edge of
the Kaibab Plateau in the northeastern area. The monument spans 917,618
acres of public lands managed by the Interior Department’s Bureau of
Land Management and the Department of Agriculture’s U.S. Forest Service.

The area includes many natural wonders, from sweeping plateaus and deep
canyons to meandering creeks and streams that ultimately flow into the
mighty Colorado River, providing water to millions of people across the
Southwest. The unique interplay of geology and hydrology support some of
the most biodiverse habitats in the region ranging from sagebrush to
savanna, providing refuge for iconic wildlife including bighorn sheep,
mule deer, bison, peregrine falcons, bald eagles, owls, and songbirds.
The new monument contains over 3,000 known cultural and historic sites,
including 12 properties listed on the National Register of Historic
Places.

Today’s designation recognizes and is a step toward addressing the
history of dispossession and exclusion of Tribal Nations and Indigenous
peoples in the area, including that occurring when the federal
government established the Grand Canyon Forest Reserve in 1893, Grand
Canyon National Monument in 1908, and Grand Canyon National Park in
1919. 

The proclamation continues the Biden-Harris Administration’s
unprecedented engagement with Tribal Nations around traditional
homelands and sacred sites. It directs the Department of the Interior
and Department of Agriculture to engage with Tribes through
consultations, co-stewardship agreements, contracts, financial and
technical assistance, and other mechanisms to ensure that that the
management of the monument occurs in collaboration with Tribes and
reflects the Indigenous Knowledge and special expertise Tribes have
amassed over countless generations. The proclamation also establishes
the Baaj Nwaavjo I’tah Kukveni – Ancestral Footprints of the Grand
Canyon Commission to advance the objective of co-stewardship of the
monument. 

Today’s designation preserves this vital landscape for outdoor
recreation, including camping, hiking, biking, and other recreational
activities, consistent with applicable law. Hunting and fishing will
continue to be allowed throughout the monument, including in the Kanab
Creek area.

The proclamation recognizes and reaffirms the State of Arizona’s ongoing
primary role in the management of wildlife within the monument and
directs federal agencies to build on their ongoing partnerships with the
Arizona Game and Fish Department to further strengthen these
collaborative efforts. Hunting, fishing, live trapping and
transplantation, activities associated with scientific resources
management including research, census, and monitoring of populations,
and a wide range of other wildlife management activities will continue
to be allowed within the national monument. The proclamation further
directs the Department of the Interior and the Department of Agriculture
to build on their ongoing partnerships with the Arizona Game and Fish
Department to explore developing new or updating existing memoranda of
understanding to further improve these collaborative efforts.

Recognizing the critical role that sportsmen and sportswomen have
played, and continue to play, in wildlife restoration and conservation
in the area, the proclamation requires that a monument advisory
committee include representation from both the sportsmen and sportswomen
community, as well as representation from the Arizona Game and Fish
Department. It also directs the monument advisory committee to include
representation from the ranching community. The proclamation respects
existing livestock grazing permits on lands within the monument.

The national monument designation recognizes and respects valid existing
rights. The proclamation specifies that maintenance and upgrades to
water infrastructure for flood control, utilities, water district
facilities, wildlife water catchments, and other similar uses may
continue; and that utility lines, pipelines, and roads can continue to
be maintained, upgraded, and built consistent with proper care and
management of the monument objects. Existing mining claims – predating a
20-year mineral withdraw initiated in 2012 – will remain in place, and
the two approved mining operations within the boundaries of the monument
would be able to operate.

The national monument only includes federal lands and does not include
State and private lands within the boundary or affect the property
rights of the State or private land owners.   
  
**<u>Background on Antiquities Act Designations  
</u>**  
President Theodore Roosevelt first used the Antiquities Act in 1906 to
designate Devils Tower National Monument in Wyoming. Since then, 18
presidents of both parties have used this authority to protect unique
natural and historic features in America, including the Statue of
Liberty, the Colorado’s Canyon of the Ancients, and New Mexico’s Gila
Cliff Dwellings.

The Baaj Nwaavjo I’tah Kukveni – Ancestral Footprints of the Grand
Canyon National Monument is President Biden’s fifth new monument
designation, following the creation of the Emmett Till and Mamie
Till-Mobley National Monument in Illinois and Mississippi last month,
the Castner Range National Monument in Texas and Avi Kwa Ame National
Monument in Nevada this spring, and the Camp Hale-Continental Divide
National Monument in Colorado last fall.

\###
