---
date: '2023-08-02'
published_time: 2023-08-02 22:46:33-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/08/02/joint-statement-on-the-strategic-third-neighbor-partnership-between-the-united-states-of-america-and-mongolia/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Joint Statement on the Strategic Third Neighbor Partnership between the United\_\
  States of America and\_Mongolia"
---
 
August 2, 2023

Vice President Kamala Harris welcomed Prime
Minister Oyun-Erdene Luvsannamsrai to Washington, D.C., on August
2<sup>nd</sup> to celebrate the strategic Third Neighbor partnership
between the United States and Mongolia. The two sides acknowledged the
advancement of U.S.-Mongolia relations since the 2019 declaration of the
two countries’ Strategic Partnership, which has provided a firm
foundation to promote and strengthen bilateral relations. Ties between
our two countries are at their strongest point yet and have developed on
the basis of shared principles, respect for good governance,
sovereignty, the rule of law, and human rights, as well as Mongolia’s
Third Neighbor policy. 

The United States applauded Mongolia’s efforts to expand relations in
the region and around the world, thus contributing to international
stability. In this context, our two countries shared respective views on
ensuring a prosperous, peaceful, and inclusive Indo-Pacific region.
Together, the United States and Mongolia are expanding our strategic
partnership with a focus on building economic resilience, promoting
democratic principles and institutions, and strengthening our security
cooperation. As strategic Third Neighbors, we will sustain our close
partnership and forge ties between our citizens to ensure their
continued prosperity and security. 

**Deepening Economic Cooperation**

The United States and Mongolia are partnering on joint responses to the
21<sup>st</sup> century’s most difficult economic challenges, exploring
opportunities to increase trade and investment through bilateral
cooperation and regional trade mechanisms. Our countries share a desire
to deepen the bilateral economic relationship in areas of mutual
interest and to pursue opportunities for cooperation in the mineral
resources sector, clean energy, food security, and the digital economy
through existing and new mechanisms, including for capacity building and
trade promotion. 

Mongolia introduced the priorities of Mongolia’s New Recovery policy and
related project implementation through public-private partnerships and
Mongolia’s Vision-2050 long-term development policy. Both Governments
welcomed the signing of an updated Economic Cooperation Roadmap that
will serve as the foundation for increased commercial and economic ties
between our countries in the coming years. They welcomed the visit of a
Mongolian trade mission to the United States and a U.S. Certified Trade
Mission to Mongolia in 2023. 

The United States expressed continued support for the strengthening of
Mongolia’s democracy through diversifying its economy, bolstering energy
security, enhancing food security,and supporting the transition to
renewables. The two sides are launching new partnerships in the areas of
minerals and energy. In particular, the United
States and Mongolia recognize the importance of critical minerals to the
global supply chain and are deepening cooperation in this sector.
We welcome the June 27 signing of a bilateral Memorandum of
Understanding concerning cooperation on mineral resource sector
development and governance, as well as the June trilateral
dialogue between the United States, Mongolia, and Republic of Korea in
Ulaanbaatar to support the development of Mongolia’s mining sector. 

The United States and Mongolia are both committed to combating the
climate crisis and to our respective 2030 Nationally
Determined Contributions  under the Paris Agreement. The United States
is committed to working with Mongolia to improve capacity to develop and
implement ambitious climate change mitigation and adaptation policies in
sectors such as agriculture and clean energy by welcoming Mongolia’s
commitment to work on climate and conservation issues, including through
Mongolia’s endorsement of the Global Methane Pledge, hosting of the UN
High-Level Forum on Clean Air, and President Khurelsukh Ukhnaa’s “One
Billion Trees” initiative. Mongolia noted its support for the
sustainable use of Mongolian water resources via the joint U.S.-Mongolia
Millennium Challenge Water Compact. The United States and Mongolia are
also exploring additional areas of collaboration on renewable energy and
energy security, including via discussions in the next bilateral Energy
Security Dialogue.

Both Governments hailed the new Open Skies Agreement as a clear
indicator of the strong Third Neighbor partnership between the United
States and Mongolia. The Agreement will facilitate air services between
Mongolia and the United States as well as expanding our strong economic
and commercial partnership, promoting people-to-people ties, and
creating new opportunities for trade and tourism. Both sides expressed
their commitment to high standards of aviation safety and security. At
the request of the Civil Aviation Authority of Mongolia, the U.S.
Federal Aviation Administration plans to provide technical assistance to
the Civil Aviation Authority of Mongolia in support of civil aviation
safety later this year.

The United States commended Mongolia’s work to promote good governance,
a favorable business environment, and private sector-driven economic
growth and supported the development of Mongolia’s legal and regulatory
framework and institutional capacity based on international best
practices. The United States and Mongolia highlighted the importance of
strengthening Mongolia’s business climate, including through continued
implementation of the U.S.-Mongolia Agreement on Transparency in Matters
Related to International Trade and Investment which further recognizes
that increasing the transparency and predictability of the business
environment will catalyze private sector trade and investment, and they
noted that the two sides plan to hold a meeting of the U.S.-Mongolia
Trade and Investment Framework Agreement Council in Mongolia later this
year. They also support the development of transparent market mechanisms
for the trade of export commodities.

The United States and Mongolia support private-sector initiatives to
develop the digital economy and information and communication
technologies, and we see cooperation in this space as essential for
promoting digital trade and cyber security. Both sides highlighted the
importance of U.S.-Mongolia collaboration to harness the benefits of the
digital transformation, e-trade, and e-commerce. Our combined efforts
will facilitate improved payment solutions, skills development, access
to financing, and prevention of digital and Internet crime. The two
sides reiterated their willingness to explore cooperation in cyber
technology and welcomed the announcement of private upskilling programs
for information and communications technology teachers in high-demand
tech skills ranging from cybersecurity to data analytics.

The United States and Mongolia also discussed ways to increase
U.S.-Mongolia space and technology cooperation, including through the
development of a bilateral space dialogue. Both countries are working
towards advancing space situational awareness cooperation and ensuring
a peaceful, safe, secure, and sustainable space environment. 

The United States and Mongolia recognize that people-to-people ties
between our two countries are an indispensable pillar of our
partnership, manifested in their immense economic and commercial
contributions to both the United States and Mongolia. These ties have
been nourished by English officially becoming the primary foreign
language in secondary schools of Mongolia, and by English education and
community development training programs provided by the United States.
To this end, the United States and Mongolia are pleased to announce an
intention to open a new American Space in Erdenet with programming that
will expand access to English language education and increase knowledge
of study and exchange opportunities in the United States.  The United
States is also working to expand its English Teaching Assistants program
in Mongolia by adding fifty percent more positions.  The United States
and Mongolia reaffirmed their shared commitment to expand education
cooperation, building on the more than $2 million annually the United
States already dedicates to education and exchange in Mongolia,
especially increased opportunities for Mongolians to pursue higher level
education in the United States by offering more government-funded
scholarships, growing our longstanding Fulbright binational partnership,
and helping train even more English language teachers. The leaders
welcomed 32 years of efforts by the U.S. Peace Corps, as well as the
efforts of the U.S. Department of State, the U.S. Defense Language
Institute, and other institutions to expand English language training
programs and deepen Mongolia’s Third Neighbor connections with the
United States.

**Promoting Democratic Principles**

The United States and Mongolia underscore the importance of strong
democratic institutions, rule of law, media freedom, and respect for
human rights, including the promotion of gender equality and women’s
empowerment. The United States and Mongolia are committed to fortifying
our societies by empowering civil society organizations—particularly
those focused on youth and gender equality—to ensure the continued
effectiveness of our democratic institutions. The United States and
Mongolia also promoted increased social accountability to reinforce
government responsiveness and noted the vital importance of increasing
public participation in the democratic process and announced the signing
of a new USAID–Ministry of Finance Development Objective
Grant Agreement, valued at up to $25 million, to strengthen democratic
governance, promote clean energy, and advance a resilient, diversified,
and inclusive economy. Working with Congress, USAID plans to invest an
initial $12 million into the agreement this year to support core lines
of effort in partnership with Mongolia. USAID is also providing $600,000
in additional support for disaster preparedness programs to build
communities’ resilience to dzudsand other hazards. 

The United States commended Mongolia for its rigorous agenda to combat
corruption through its five key measures.  Mongoliaexpressed
appreciation for U.S. assistance that has contributed to Mongolia’s
development of effective judicial and law enforcement practices. Both
sides noted that since 2018, the United States and Mongolia have
effectively cooperated through substantive technical assistances, such
as equipment, training, and exchanges for Mongolian criminal justice
agencies to improve transparency and combat corruption. The United
States and Mongolia are also working to increase cooperation and
information sharing between our respective law enforcement agencies to
improve border security and address transnational crime, including the
trafficking of drugs, humans, cultural property, and wildlife, as well
as financial crimes such as money laundering. 

The United States and Mongolia noted the importance of fair, equitable,
and transparent policies that are representative of our respect for
individual freedoms, and reaffirmed their commitment to the freedoms of
expression, peaceful assembly, and religion or belief. In line with
these commitments, the United States and Mongolia are both members of
the Freedom Online Coalition and are working together to globally
advance a vision of a free and open Internet.

Maintaining free and open access to information is key to ensuring that
democratic principles and institutions endure. As such, both sides
welcomed the launch of USAID’s Media and Civil Society Strengthening
program, which will build on Mongolia’s leadership as a democracy in the
Indo-Pacific region. The United States and Mongolia are committed to
enhancing social accountability mechanisms and improvements in public
access to information. The United States emphasized that Mongolia’s
principles supporting the free flow of information promote the country’s
independence, sovereignty, and security. 

Both sides also reviewed the success of the first-ever Strategic
Dialogue between the United States and Mongolia in 2022, the
continuation of U.S.-Mongolia-Japan trilateral talks in 2022, and the
first-ever U.S.-Mongolia-Republic of Korea (ROK) trilateral talks in
2023. These diplomatic engagements are an expression of shared values
and our commitment to further strengthen our democratic institutions. 

**Strengthening Security Cooperation**

The United States and Mongolia had an open exchange of views on the
regional and multilateral issues of mutual interest, and
both committed to engage further in strategic security cooperation. The
United States and Mongolia are strengthening their Third Neighbor
defense cooperation, based on a shared desire for a stable and peaceful
Indo-Pacific region, including by working to address non-traditional
defense and security challenges. The United States is committed to
working with Mongolia to develop and strengthen regional security
partnerships and to enhance Mongolia’s international interoperability,
including through the annual, multinational Khaan Quest exercise hosted
by the Mongolian Armed Forces (MAF). 

The United States supports Mongolia’s long-standing commitment to
international Peacekeeping Operations (PKO) and safeguarding human
rights and democracy around the world. The United States noted that the
MAF has international recognition as a highly qualified, reliable
security provider and thanked Mongolia for the MAF’s contributions to
coalition security efforts in Iraq and Afghanistan that directly
benefited the Afghan people, the United States, and U.S. partners and
allies. Mongolia highlighted that the MAF manages a UN-certified,
professionally run regional training center capable of conducting
pre-deployment training, supporting key UN PKO courses, and executing a
multinational peacekeeping exercise. Both sides welcomed enhanced MAF
participation in U.S. military education and training opportunities to
facilitate MAF development and establish long-term rapport between
our militaries’ leaders. The United States also noted the 20 Joint Light
Tactical Vehicles that Mongolia will be receiving from the United States
in support of Mongolia’s UN peacekeeping missions. 

Both sides recognized the importance of engaging constructively on
regional and global security issues of concern. They noted with deep
concern the humanitarian consequences of the war in Ukraine and support
any effort to foster a restoration of a sustainable peace based on
international law. Both sides also reiterated their commitment to
diplomacy with the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea (DPRK) as the
only viable means of achieving lasting peace on the Korean Peninsula and
call on the DPRK to refrain from further violations of UN Security
Council Resolutions and return to negotiations.  

\*\*\*

Vice President Harris and Prime Minister Oyun-Erdene share the highest
level of confidence that the increasing ties between our two nations
will grow even stronger as our people forge ever closer friendships.
Together, we will show the world that our strategic Third Neighbor
partnership will lead to our nations’ continued prosperity, peace, and
security.

\###
