---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-09-09'
modified_time: 2021-09-10 12:30:29-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/09/09/re-launching-the-u-s-mexico-high-level-economic-dialogue-hled/
published_time: 2021-09-09 18:07:19-04:00
title: "Re-Launching the U.S.-Mexico High-Level Economic Dialogue\_(HLED)"
---
 
To deliver on a commitment by President Biden and President Andres
Manuel Lopez Obrador in March, today Vice President Kamala Harris
relaunched the annual cabinet-level U.S.-Mexico High-Level Economic
Dialogue (HLED).  As the Vice President noted, “Our world is more
interconnected and interdependent than ever before, highlighting the
importance of the partnership and the relationship between the United
States and Mexico.”  The HLED provides a strategic, measurable, and
goal-oriented platform for the United States and Mexico to advance
economic and social priorities central to fostering regional prosperity,
expanding job creation, promoting investment in our people, and reducing
inequality and poverty in all of its dimensions.  
  
The U.S. delegation was comprised of Vice President Harris, Secretary of
State Antony Blinken, Secretary of Commerce Gina Raimondo, U.S. Trade
Representative Katherine Tai, and U.S. Ambassador to Mexico Ken Salazar.
Secretary of Homeland Security Alejandro Mayorkas and USAID
Administrator Samantha Power were also in attendance. The Mexican
delegation consisted of Secretary of External Relations Marcelo Ebrard,
Secretary of Economy Tatiana Clouthier, Mexican Ambassador to the United
States Esteban Moctezuma, and Undersecretary of Finance and Public
Credit Gabriel Yorio.  
  
In her opening message, Vice President Harris remarked, “I am confident
that our nations will continue to work together, that our companies will
continue to create jobs together, and that our people will enjoy greater
prosperity and a greater quality of life.”  Secretary Ebrard added,
“this dialogue allows us to define the strategic common vision of our
two countries for the future, as the North American region that we are,
and not only discuss day-to-day issues of concern.”  
  
In their remarks, Secretaries Raimondo and Clouthier both shared their
vision that the HLED would serve as a platform to build back better
together. “The more our two countries become a seamless marketplace, the
more competitive we will be globally,” Secretary Raimondo stated. While
Secretary Clouthier emphasized: “the HLED will be complementary to the
USMCA as it will help create the right conditions to make our economic
integration even stronger.”  
  
Secretary of State Antony Blinken underscored in his intervention: “The
scope of work we have identified strives to promote that kind of
broad-based economic opportunity, by focusing on enhancing economic
opportunities for our most vulnerable citizens and our most underserved
regions; securing the tools necessary to build future prosperity; and
investing in our people, so they have the education and skills they need
to compete in the 21st century.” Lastly, Ambassador Tai recognized the
importance of collaboration and communication and the shared principles
of building durable, economic futures guided by the perspectives and
aspirations of all people – especially workers.  
  
During the meeting, participants discussed the four pillars that form
the joint vision of the HLED:

1.  Building Back Together
2.  Promoting Sustainable Economic and Social Development in Southern
    Mexico and Central America
3.  Securing the Tools for Future Prosperity
4.  Investing in Our People

To *Build Back Together*, the United States and Mexico intend to create
a Bilateral Supply Chain Working Group to identify sectors of promise
and action areas in line with domestic priorities per Executive Orders
14017 and 14001.  Together, we intend to build supply chain resiliency,
guard against disruptions, and seek to promote competitiveness by
reducing vulnerabilities.   
  
To *Promote Sustainable Economic Development in southern Mexico and
Central America*, we plan to continue to provide strategic assistance to
address the root causes of migration, including through joint
development programs with Mexico.  **Under a Memorandum of Understanding
between the United States Government and the Government of
Mexico, **the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) will
deepen joint collaboration with the Government of Mexico to address
these development challenges in Central America. Mexico and the United
States intend to collaborate on a new program that partners with farmers
in southern Mexico to foster sustainable development in line with
climate goals  
  
To *Secure the Tools for Future Economic Prosperity*, we recognize the
need to have safe and secure digital space.  The United States and
Mexico committed to supporting regulatory compatibility and risk
mitigation on issues related to information and communication
technologies, networks, cybersecurity, telecom, and infrastructure,
among others.   We also agreed to focus on mitigating threats and
enhancing data flows, recognizing the importance of strengthening
cybersecurity protections in global supply chains.  Given the dynamism
and interconnection of our economies, we seek to enhance cross-border
data flows and interoperability.  
  
To *Invest in our People*, we are committed to building a more inclusive
workforce that is better educated, more competitive, and better trained
with the necessary skills to meet the needs of the 21st Century
economy.  We recognize that all people, including historically
marginalized or vulnerable populations, should benefit from economic
growth.  Small and medium enterprises are the backbone of both of our
economies, and we commit to working to integrate them in regional value
chains and our future bilateral work.  
  
Our work as governments could not happen without the input of the
private sector, academia, and civil society, and we commit to a
continued feedback loop on the progress and direction of the HLED’s
initiatives.  Our goal is for the HLED to be a dynamic mechanism that
can help both countries overcome today’s hurdles and achieve tomorrow’s
potential. The United States and Mexico committed to meeting annually at
the cabinet level and semi-annually at the sub-cabinet level.   
  
With the HLED, the United States and Mexico reaffirm our commitment to
regional economic growth, integration, and the longstanding strategic
partnership that binds our two countries.

\###
