---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-09-13'
modified_time: 2021-09-14 10:16:05-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/09/13/president-biden-announces-10-key-nominations-2/
published_time: 2021-09-13 16:00:00-04:00
title: "President\_Biden Announces 10 Key\_Nominations"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Joe Biden announced his intent to nominate
the following ten individuals to serve in key roles:

-   Rostin Behnam, Nominee for Chair and Commissioner of the Commodity
    Futures Trading Commission
-   Kristin Johnson, Nominee for Commissioner of the Commodity Futures
    Trading Commission
-   Christy Goldsmith Romero, Nominee for Commissioner of the Commodity
    Futures Trading Commission
-   Alvaro Bedoya, Nominee for Commissioner of the Federal Trade
    Commission
-   Reta Jo Lewis, Nominee for President and Chair of the Export-Import
    Bank of the United States
-   Jed Kolko, Nominee for Under Secretary of Commerce for Economic
    Affairs at the Department of Commerce
-   Maria ‘Marisa’ Lago, Nominee for Under Secretary of Commerce for
    International Trade at the Department of Commerce
-   Arthur Jemison, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for Public and
    Indian Housing at the Department of Housing and Urban Development
-   Alanna McCargo, Nominee for President of the Government National
    Mortgage Association at the Department of Housing and Urban
    Development
-   Elaine Trevino, Nominee for Chief Agricultural Negotiator at the
    United States Trade Representative

**<u>Rostin Behnam, Nominee for Chair and Commissioner of the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission</u>**

Rostin Behnam joined the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) in
2017 as a Commissioner, and since January 2021 has served as the Acting
Chairman. During his tenure, Behnam has fostered public and private
partnerships to ensure that the derivatives markets operate
transparently and fairly and innovate responsibly while addressing new
and emergent risks. Behnam prioritizes safeguarding customer
protections, examining potential systemic market risk, and engaging in
public dialog on globally significant issues such as climate-related
financial market risk, interest rate benchmark reform, diversity,
equity, and inclusion in the financial markets, and the rise of retail
participation in emerging markets.

In 2019, Behnam spearheaded the establishment of the CFTC’s Market Risk
Advisory Committee’s Climate Related Market Risk Subcommittee. He
requested the September 2020 report Managing Climate Risk in the U.S.
Financial System, the first of-its-kind effort from a U.S. government
entity. Behnam previously served as senior counsel to U.S. Senator
Debbie Stabenow of Michigan, Chairwoman of the U.S. Senate Committee on
Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry, practiced law in New York City,
and worked at the New Jersey Office of the Attorney General within the
Bureau of Securities. Behnam earned an A.B. from Georgetown University
and a J.D. from the Syracuse University College of Law.

**<u>Kristin Johnson, Nominee for Commissioner of the Commodity Futures
Trading Commission</u>**

Kristin N. Johnson is the Asa Griggs Candler Professor of Law at Emory
University School of Law. She works on financial markets risk management
law and policy with specialization in the regulation of complex
financial products including the origination, distribution, and
secondary market trading, clearing, and settlement of securities and
derivatives.  She has lectured at law schools throughout the United
States and published on financial markets regulation. She is an elected
member of the American Law Institute, an American Bar Foundation Fellow,
and Chair-Elect of the Securities Regulation Section of the Association
of American Law Schools. Before joining Emory, Kristin served as an
Associate Dean and McGlinchey Stafford Professor of Law at Tulane
University Law School.

Prior to her academic appointments, Kristin practiced law firm in New
York City advising domestic and international clients on diverse
financial transactions. After attending the University of Michigan Law
School where she served as an editor of the Michigan Law Review, she
clerked for the Honorable Joseph A. Greenaway, Jr. of the District Court
of New Jersey, elevated to the Third Circuit Court of Appeals. She is a
graduate of the Walsh School of Foreign Service at Georgetown
University. 

**<u>Christy Goldsmith Romero, Nominee for Commissioner of the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission</u>**

Christy Goldsmith Romero is the Special Inspector General for the Office
of the Special Inspector General for the Troubled Asset Relief Program
(SIGTARP).  Ms. Goldsmith Romero was nominated as Special Inspector
General by President Barack Obama on February 1, 2012 and confirmed by
the United States Senate on March 29, 2012.  In that role, she leads an
independent office conducting investigations and audits of federal
programs created in response to the financial crisis.  Since 2019, Ms.
Goldsmith Romero has also served as an adjunct professor of law at
Georgetown University Law Center and University of Virginia Law School,
teaching courses in securities regulation, cryptocurrency regulation,
and federal oversight.

Ms. Goldsmith Romero previously served in various roles at SIGTARP, and
at the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).  She served as
counsel to SEC Chairman Mary Schapiro and Chairman Christopher Cox, and
as an attorney in the SEC Division of Enforcement.  Prior to joining the
SEC, Ms. Goldsmith Romero was a litigator at the law firms of Akin Gump
Strauss Hauer & Feld; Snell & Wilmer; and Jenner & Block. She also
served a federal judicial clerkship. Ms. Goldsmith Romero earned a B.S.
in business from Old Dominion University and a J.D. from Brigham Young
University Law School.

**<u>Alvaro Bedoya, Nominee for Commissioner of the Federal Trade
Commission</u>**

Alvaro Bedoya is the founding director of the Center on Privacy &
Technology at Georgetown Law, where he is a visiting professor of law.
His research and advocacy focus on the idea that privacy is for
everyone. His exposés on the harms of face recognition technology have
helped usher the passage of face recognition restrictions across the
country, led the National Institute of Standards & Technology to conduct
the first comprehensive bias audit of face recognition algorithms, and
paved the way for a federal law requiring bias testing in airport face
recognition systems, section 1919 of the FAA Reauthorization Act of
2018. He also co-led a coalition that successfully pressed an Internet
giant to drop ads for online payday loans, which were often served in
response to searches like “I need money to pay rent” or “I need money
for groceries.” Previously, Bedoya served as the first chief counsel to
the U.S. Senate Judiciary Subcommittee on Privacy, Technology and the
Law upon the subcommittee’s creation in 2011. As a Senate staffer,
Bedoya drafted bipartisan legislation to protect victims of sexual
assault, conducted oversight hearings of technology companies, and
helped negotiate and draft bipartisan legislation to rein in the
National Security Agency. 

A naturalized citizen born in Peru, Bedoya co-founded the Esperanza
Education Fund, a status-blind college scholarship that has awarded over
$1 million to immigrant and first-generation students in Maryland,
Virginia, and the District of Columbia. He currently serves on the Board
of Directors of CASA and CASA in Action. A graduate of Harvard College
and Yale Law School, Bedoya lives in Rockville, Maryland with his wife,
Dr. Sima Zadeh Bedoya, a pediatric psychologist at the National
Institutes of Health’s National Cancer Institute. They have two
toddlers. 

**<u>Reta Jo Lewis, Nominee for President and Chair of the Export-Import
Bank of the United States</u>**

Reta Jo Lewis has over 25 years of leadership experience in
international affairs, legal, public policy, business and regulatory
affairs, and subnational diplomacy. She is a Senior Fellow and Director
of Congressional Affairs at the German Marshall Fund of the United
States (GMF).At GMF, Lewis leads and oversees initiatives, programs, and
bipartisan exchanges for members of the U.S. Congress and their European
counterparts. She joined GMF in 2015 as a Senior Resident Fellow with
the Transatlantic Leadership Program, where she focused on leadership
development and subnational diplomacy efforts.  She established and
leads GMF’s Women of Color in Transatlantic Leadership Program.  Prior
to joining GMF, she served as the first-ever Special Representative for
Global Intergovernmental Affairs under Secretary Hillary Clinton at the
U.S. Department of State during the Obama-Biden Administration. As
Special Representative, Lewis was the chief diplomat in charge of the
international efforts tobuild and support strategic relationships
between the U.S. Department of State, state and local leaders, and their
foreign counterparts. In 2013, she was awarded the Secretary’s
Distinguished Service Award.

Prior to joining the State Department, Ms. Lewis was Of Counsel at
Edwards Angell Palmer & Dodge LLP.  Previous legal experience includes
serving as a Shareholder at one of the largest international law firms,
Greenberg Traurig LLP. Her legal practice focused on providing strategic
corporate, legal, and consulting counsel to the firms’ business, public
finance, regulatory, and state and local clients. Ms. Lewis was the
first African-American woman to serve as Vice President and Counselor to
the President at the U.S. Chamber of Commerce. She led the Chamber’s
initiatives focused on fostering strategic alliances between small
businesses, especially women- and minority-owned businesses,
entrepreneurs, and executives. Prior to her tenure at the Chamber, she
was Special Assistant for Political Affairs to President Bill Clinton.
She is a Life Member of the Council on Foreign Relations and Member of
the Board of the Leadership Council for Women in National Security. Ms.
Lewis received a J.D. from Emory University School of Law, an M.S.A.J.
from American University, and a B.A. from the University of Georgia. She
is a native of Statesboro, Georgia.

**<u>Jed Kolko, Nominee for Under Secretary of Commerce for Economic
Affairs at the Department of Commerce</u>**

Jed Kolko has been Chief Economist at Indeed since 2016. He was Chief
Economist and VP of Analytics at Trulia from 2011 to 2015. He is on the
board of directors of the National Association for Business Economics
and the California Budget and Policy Center.  
He has also held research positions at the Public Policy Institute of
California, Forrester Research, the Office of Federal Housing Enterprise
Oversight (now FHFA), the World Bank, and the Progressive Policy
Institute. He incorporates proprietary and public data into research
that is accessible and actionable for a wide range of audiences. His
research spans employment, housing, local economic development, and
technology issues. He earned his A.B. in social studies and his Ph.D. in
economics at Harvard University.

**<u>Maria ‘Marisa’ Lago, Nominee for Under Secretary of Commerce for
International Trade at the Department of Commerce</u>**

Marisa Lago serves as the Director of the NYC Department of City
Planning and Chair of the City Planning Commission. Lago previously
served in the Obama Administration as the U.S. Department of the
Treasury’s Assistant Secretary for International Markets and
Development. In this capacity, she oversaw the U.S. government’s
overseas development activities with the World Bank and its regional
counterparts. In addition, she directed Treasury’s portfolio on
international financial services regulation, climate finance, trade in
financial services, and technical assistance to developing countries on
public financial management.  

During her career in public service, Lago headed the Office of
International Affairs for the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission;
served as the President and Chief Executive Officer of NYS Empire State
Development; and was Boston’s Chief Economic Development Officer.  In
the private sector, Lago spent five years as the Global Head of
Compliance for Citigroup’s corporate and investment bank.  Lago earned a
J.D. cum laude from Harvard Law School, and a B.S. in physics from
Cooper Union.

**<u>Arthur Jemison, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for Public and
Indian Housing at the Department of Housing and Urban Development</u>**

James Arthur Jemison II (Arthur) is currently the Principal Deputy
Assistant Secretary for the Office of Community Planning and Development
at HUD. Mr. Jemison joined HUD in January 2021 from the City of Detroit,
where he was Group Executive for Planning, Housing & Development,
leading the City’s development agenda, working in partnership with
Directors of the Housing & Revitalization Department, the Planning &
Development Department, the Detroit Land Bank Authority, Detroit Housing
Commission (Public Housing Authority). In early 2014, he served as
Director of the new Housing & Revitalization Department for the City of
Detroit  as the City recovered from bankruptcy.  Before coming to
Detroit, Mr. Jemison served as Deputy Undersecretary and Deputy Director
for the Department of Housing and Community Development( for the
Commonwealth of Massachusetts under Governor Deval Patrick. Prior to
that, Mr. Jemison held a variety of public- and private-sector
leadership positions in planning, development and public housing,
primarily in Massachusetts and the District of Columbia.

Mr. Jemison has a Bachelor of Arts degree, *cum laude* in Social Thought
and Political Economy from the University of Massachusetts at Amherst.
He also holds a Master of City Planning degree from the Massachusetts
Institute of Technology, where he was a Public Policy and International
Affairs (PPIA) Fellow. Jemison lives in Michigan with his wife, two sons
and a daughter.

**<u>Alanna McCargo, Nominee for President of the Government National
Mortgage Association at the Department of Housing and Urban
Development</u>**

Alanna McCargo currently serves as Senior Advisor for housing finance in
the Department of Housing & Urban Development (HUD). Her career in
housing spans decades and has centered on how America’s housing finance
system can equitably provide credit and capital to households and
affordable housing stakeholders. She joined the Biden-Harris
Administration after serving as Vice President of the Housing Finance
Policy Center at the Urban Institute, a social and economic policy
research firm where she led and developed research programming in
collaboration with key housing industry, nonprofit, and government
agencies to support housing policy research. She developed a body of
work focused on reducing racial homeownership gaps, increasing housing
affordability, and reducing barriers to accessing credit and capital.
McCargo also served as Executive Director of the Mortgage Servicing
Collaborative, a cross-sector initiative that identified and developed
policy recommendations for mortgage servicing and securitization reforms
to enable a more stable housing finance system.

Before joining the Urban Institute, McCargo held roles as Vice President
and Head of Government Solutions with CoreLogic, a property and mortgage
data analytics firm, and as Vice President with JP Morgan Chase’s Home
Lending division. Previously, McCargo spent a decade at Fannie Mae,
where she led policy development and secondary mortgage market programs
and had leadership roles on key corporate initiatives. From 2008 through
2012 she served as Senior Director of Servicing Portfolio Management and
played a central role in the partnership with the US Department of
Treasury in executing the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008.
She was instrumental in foreclosure prevention efforts, loan
restructuring, and distressed asset management programs. She was a
leader in the work with the Federal Housing Finance Agency on Fannie Mae
and Freddie Mac mortgage servicing alignment efforts. She has a BA from
the University of Houston and an MBA from the University of Maryland.
She currently resides in Virginia with her husband.

**<u>Elaine Trevino, Nominee for Chief Agricultural Negotiator at the
United States Trade Representative</u>**

Elaine Trevino is the President of the Almond Alliance of California
(AAC), a member-based trade association that advocates on regulatory and
legislative issues in areas of international trade, food safety, water
quality and availability, crop protection, air quality, worker safety,
supply chain and feed quality. As the leader of an organization that
advocates for California’s leading agricultural export, Elaine
understands tariff and nontariff barriers to trade and the importance of
maintaining America’s strong trade agreements and global positioning.
Elaine has worked on advocating for funding for COVID-19 relief,
addressing retaliatory tariffs, climate smart farming, public private
partnerships for opening new markets and strengthening existing markets
and addressing technical sanitary and phytosanitary barriers. Elaine
works at the local and federal levels on addressing port congestion,
supply chain disruptions and excessive costs.

Elaine served as a Deputy Secretary at the California Department of Food
and Agriculture for Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger and Governor Gray
Davis.  She was responsible for the oversight of the international
export and trade programs, specialty crop block grant funding, division
of marketing services, plant health and pest prevention and the
statewide county fair network. Elaine serves on USDA’s Agricultural
Policy Advisory Committee (APAC).  Born and raised in the Central Valley
of California, Elaine has a long history of community service and has a
great respect for agriculture and the value of the industry to the
overall economy. She received her undergraduate degree from the
University of California Berkeley and attended the John F. Kennedy
School of Government. Elaine and her family currently reside in
Sacramento, California.

\###
