---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-09-15'
modified_time: 2021-09-15 17:24:01-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/09/15/joint-leaders-statement-on-aukus/
published_time: 2021-09-15 16:55:00-04:00
title: Joint Leaders Statement on AUKUS
---
 
As leaders of Australia, the United Kingdom, and the United States,
guided by our enduring ideals and shared commitment to the international
rules-based order, we resolve to deepen diplomatic, security, and
defense cooperation in the Indo-Pacific region, including by working
with partners, to meet the challenges of the twenty-first century. As
part of this effort, we are announcing the creation of an enhanced
trilateral security partnership called “AUKUS” — Australia, the United
Kingdom, and the United States.

Through AUKUS, our governments will strengthen the ability of each to
support our security and defense interests, building on our longstanding
and ongoing bilateral ties. We will promote deeper information and
technology sharing. We will foster deeper integration of security and
defense-related science, technology, industrial bases, and supply
chains. And in particular, we will significantly deepen cooperation on a
range of security and defense capabilities.

As the first initiative under AUKUS, recognizing our common tradition as
maritime democracies, we commit to a shared ambition to support
Australia in acquiring nuclear-powered submarines for the Royal
Australian Navy. Today, we embark on a trilateral effort of 18 months to
seek an optimal pathway to deliver this capability. We will leverage
expertise from the United States and the United Kingdom, building on the
two countries’ submarine programs to bring an Australian capability into
service at the earliest achievable date.

The development of Australia’s nuclear-powered submarines would be a
joint endeavor between the three nations, with a focus on
interoperability, commonality, and mutual benefit. Australia is
committed to adhering to the highest standards for safeguards,
transparency, verification, and accountancy measures to ensure the
non-proliferation, safety, and security of nuclear material and
technology. Australia remains committed to fulfilling all of its
obligations as a non-nuclear weapons state, including with the
International Atomic Energy Agency. Our three nations are deeply
committed to upholding our leadership on global non-proliferation.

Recognizing our deep defense ties, built over decades, today we also
embark on further trilateral collaboration under AUKUS to enhance our
joint capabilities and interoperability. These initial efforts will
focus on cyber capabilities, artificial intelligence, quantum
technologies, and additional undersea capabilities.

The endeavor we launch today will help sustain peace and stability in
the Indo-Pacific region. For more than 70 years, Australia, the United
Kingdom, and the United States, have worked together, along with other
important allies and partners, to protect our shared values and promote
security and prosperity. Today, with the formation of AUKUS, we recommit
ourselves to this vision.

\###
