---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-09-23'
modified_time: 2021-09-23 09:39:06-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/09/23/chairs-summary-un-food-systems-summit/
published_time: 2021-09-23 11:00:00-04:00
title: "Chair\u2019s Summary: UN Food Systems\_Summit"
---
 
The 2021 UN Food Systems Summit is an extension of longstanding U.S.
leadership and investment in ending hunger, malnutrition, and poverty
and building more sustainable, equitable, and resilient food systems.
During the UN General Assembly, President Biden previewed the United
States’ commitment to $10 billion in multi-year initiatives to
strengthen food security and nutrition for all, accelerate climate
change mitigation and adaptation, and expand inclusive food systems at
home and abroad, especially for the most vulnerable. The Administration
looks forward to working with Congress to advance these critical
initiatives.  
  
At the UN Food Systems Summit, USDA Secretary Tom Vilsack and USAID
Administrator Samantha Power reinforced the United States’ commitment to
work with domestic and international partners to tackle hunger and
poverty and build more sustainable, equitable and resilient food systems
at home and abroad.  This virtual Summit, which convened thousands of
participants including UN member states, private sector representatives,
farmers, producers and civil society participants, focused on concrete
actions to transform food systems to accelerate progress on all 17
Sustainable Development Goals.  
  
The Summit emphasized the need for systems-level change.  Global leaders
supported promotion of holistic and inclusive food systems-based
approaches to poverty alleviation, nutrition, resilient and reliable
agricultural production, resource conservation, and climate change
mitigation and adaptation. The Summit highlighted the ongoing threats of
COVID-19, conflict, and climate change that have already increased
poverty, hunger and malnutrition across the globe.  It focused the
world’s attention on addressing these challenges and advancing the 2030
Agenda for Sustainable Development for the health of the planet and the
wellbeing of current and future generations.  The inclusive approach of
this “People’s Summit” opened the door to diverse stakeholders and
cooperation among key actors, including civil society, farmers, farm and
food workers, entrepreneurs, the private sector, and governments – all
of whom must work together to achieve food systems transformation.   
  
In preparation for the Summit, the U.S. government hosted three U.S.
National Food Systems Dialogues that brought together hundreds of
diverse stakeholders to discuss challenges and opportunities for food
system transformation in the United States.  Discussions at the
Dialogues focused on the priorities of the Biden-Harris Administration
and those of the UN Food Systems Summit: food security and nutrition for
all; climate change mitigation and adaptation; and inclusive and
equitable food systems that address the needs of the most vulnerable by
empowering youth, women, and disadvantaged communities.  
  
Of the $10 billion in planned U.S. investments highlighted during the
summit, $5 billion are to strengthen food systems in the United States,
including through investments in systems and infrastructure to ensure
access to healthy diets for all Americans, and investments in fair and
efficient markets to improve the inclusivity and resilience of our food
systems.  Other planned investments support the expansion of climate
smart agriculture and forestry.   
  
During the Summit, Secretary Vilsack noted in remarks “*We must use the
power of ingenuity to improve on food systems so they provide safe,
nutritious, affordable, and accessible food for all, while conserving
natural resources, and combating the climate crisis*.”  
  
The United States, working with Congress, also intends to invest $5
billion over five years to support Feed the Future, the U.S.
government’s global hunger and food security initiative, which aims to
reduce poverty, hunger, and malnutrition.  Within the Feed the Future
expansion, the U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (DFC)
set a goal to finance $1 billion in food security and agriculture,
research, and food fortification programs.   
  
Administrator Power stated “*With new investments and a new strategy,
Feed the Future aims to contribute to a 20 percent reduction in poverty
and stunting in target countries over the next five years. But the
United States cannot end hunger on its own—no country can. We need the
support of foundations and food scientists, donors and development
agencies, private companies and partner countries, to not just feed the
future, but build a future where hunger is a distant memory.”*  
  
Other commitments include launching the *Global Coalition on Sustainable
Productivity Growth for Food Security and Resource Conservation* to
sustainably feed the world, alleviate poverty, achieve our global
environmental goals and confront climate change; advancing the
*Agriculture Innovation Mission for Climate*, a global initiative to
accelerate investment in agriculture-based climate solutions; and
joining coalitions to combat food loss and waste and to expand school
feeding programs to children worldwide. The United States also vowed to
share U.S. expertise and experience in science-based innovation,
technology, and development to help countries advance along their own
paths to eliminate hunger and malnutrition and build sustainable,
resilient, and equitable food systems.

\###
