---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-09-23'
modified_time: 2021-09-23 18:45:03-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/09/23/president-biden-appoints-members-to-united-service-organizations-inc-board-of-governors/
published_time: 2021-09-23 18:45:02-04:00
title: "President\_Biden Appoints Members to United Service Organizations Inc. Board\
  \ of\_Governors"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Joe Biden appointed the following members
to the board of governors of United Service Organizations (USO) Inc., a
non-profit, charitable corporation that provides live entertainment to
members of the U.S. Armed Forces and their families:

-   **Gil Kerlikowske** of South Carolina
-   **Ginger Miller** of New York
-   **Chief Master Sergeant Manuel Piñeiro**, USAF (Ret) of Maryland
-   **Rebekah Gleaves Sanderlin** of Florida
-   **Major General Francis D. Vavala**, ARNG (Ret) of Delaware
-   **Mary A. Winnefeld** of Virginia

USO has 250 centers across the world on every continent, operated by
thousands of staff and volunteers who strive to match our service
members’ dedication, and to uphold our nation’s sacred obligation to
support those who sacrifice so much for America.

**<u>Gil Kerlikowske</u>**

Gil Kerlikowske has a long and distinguished career in public service. 
He enlisted in the Army in 1970 in the Military Police and served on
active duty until 1972 and continued for an additional one-year period
in the Army Reserves.  He joined the St. Petersburg Police Department in
1972 and served in command positions for fifteen years while the GI Bill
put him through undergraduate and graduate degrees in Criminal Justice
at the University of South Florida (Tampa).

He has served as a police chief in four cities including Buffalo (1994 –
1998) and Seattle (2000 -2009).  He was nominated and confirmed as the
Director for the White House Office of National Drug Control Policy
(2009 – 2014), a cabinet-level position, and later served as the only
confirmed Commissioner of the U.S. Customs and Border Protection (2014 –
2017).  Mr. Kerlikowske was a resident fellow at the Institute of
Politics, Kennedy School of Government, Harvard University (2017) and is
currently a non-resident fellow at the James A. Baker III Institute for
Public Policy, Rice University.  

**<u>Ginger Miller</u>**

Ginger Miller is the daughter of immigrants, a native New Yorker, and a
formerly homeless service-disabled Navy veteran who turned her passion
into purpose and became a White House Champion of Change for Women
Veterans and the President and CEO of the Women Veterans Interactive
(WVI). WVI enables and empowers women veterans to attain the support and
resources needed to achieve post-military success.

Ms. Miller currently serves as an Advisory Board Member at Northwest
Federal Credit Union and previously served on the Advisory Committee on
Minority Veterans at the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs, as the
Chairwoman of the Prince George’s County Veterans Commission,
Commissioner on the Maryland Commission for Women and as a member of the
Maryland Caregivers Coordinating Council.

**<u>Chief Master Sergeant Manuel</u>** **Piñeiro**

Manuel Piñeiro currently serves as an Impact Coach for Impact Human
Performance (IHP), with a focus on elevating human performance and
bringing out the best in people. He also delivers leadership development
for premier organizations Piñeiro is a 32-year veteran who served in the
highest enlisted position as the First Sergeant Special Duty Manager for
the United States Air Force. In this position, he was responsible for
establishing guidance, policy and management of more than 2,700 Regular
Air Force, Air National Guard, and Air Force Reserve first sergeants. He
also served as the primary advisor to the Secretary of the Air Force,
CSAF, CMSAF and First Sergeant Academy for training curriculum, which
established wartime mission roles, responsibilities and utilization that
impacted nearly 600K airmen and their families around the world He has
deployed in support of Operations Desert Shield and Storm, as well as
Operations Enduring Freedom and Iraqi Freedom.

Piñeiro has delivered over 200 keynote addresses to audiences of all
sizes throughout the world. As the first enlisted senior
non-commissioned officer to be selected to work for the Undersecretary
of International Affairs, he established policy and strategy to promote
professional military education with host nations that solidified their
ability to develop, grow and attain leadership philosophies that connect
to our mutual endeavors.

He earned a Bachelor of Science in Workforce Education and Development
from Southern Illinois University at Carbondale. He is also responsible
for the inception of the Joint Service Professional Military Education
Experience at the DoD National Defense University.

**<u>Rebekah Gleaves Sanderlin, Presidentially Appointed Member</u>**

Rebekah Sanderlin is a communications professional and a long-time
military spouse and military family advocate. She began her career as a
print journalist and has written for many regional and national
publications, including Military.com, where she wrote a weekly column
for military parents.

Marriage to a soldier in 2003 exposed Ms. Sanderlin firsthand to the
challenges faced by service members and military families. As a result,
she began volunteering with the U.S. Army’s military family support
efforts and helped start the national military family support
organizations, Blue Star Families and the Military Family Advisory
Network. Because of her volunteer work, Ms. Sanderlin was a top 5
finalist for Army Spouse of the Year in 2012, received the Col. Maggie
Raye Volunteer Award in 2020, and worked closely with Joining Forces
throughout the Obama-Biden Administration. Now working primarily as a
marketing strategist while pursuing creative writing opportunities in
print and film, Ms. Sanderlin lives her recently retired husband and
their three children in Virginia Beach, VA.

**<u>Major General Francis D. Vavala</u>**

Francis D. (Frank) Vavala, Major General, U.S, Army (Retired) combined
service time spanned 50 years. He enlisted, as a Private in 1967 serving
three years enlisted, attaining the rank of Sergeant and then attended
officer candidate school and was commissioned a Second Lieutenant in
1970 and retired as a Major General in February 2017, serving his last
18 years as the Adjutant General of the Delaware National Guard.

He commanded at the Platoon, Company, Battalion and Brigade levels and
was promoted to Brigadier General, as the Assistant Adjutant General of
the Delaware Army National Guard in 1995. He was subsequently promoted
to Major General, as the Adjutant General of the Delaware National Guard
in 1999. Prior to his retirement, he was promoted to Lieutenant General
(State) and General (State), by Governor’s Markell and Carney
respectively, making him the only Delawarean to achieve this honor.

While serving as Adjutant General, he held prominent national positions
as President of the Adjutants General Association of the United States
and Chairman of the Board of the National Guard Association of the
United States. He currently serves on numerous boards, committees, and
commissions at both the national and state level and is the Veteran’s
Advocacy Specialist for the Delaware Technical and Community College. He
resides in Wilmington, Delaware with his wife of 54 years, Jane; they
have three children and three grandchildren.

**<u>Mary A. Winnefeld</u>**

Mary A. Winnefeld is the co-founder of the S.A.F.E. Project, a
non-profit organization working through a collaborative, multi-pronged
and non-partisan approach to end our country’s catastrophic substance
use and overdose epidemic. Ms. Winnefeld currently serves on the board
of directors for the Cohen Veterans Network, Stanford University’s CRAFT
Adaptation Council, Easter Seals DC MD VA Advisory Board; she is also an
ambassador for the Tragedy Assistance for Survivors.  She previously
served as an advisory board member for Walmart’s Opioid/Substance Use
Advisory Board, the Navy-Marine Corps Relief Society, and USO
Metropolitan Washington. Ms. Winnefeld is the recipient of both the
Department of Defense and Department of the Navy Meritorious Public
Service Award and received the USO Distinguished Service Award. Through
her personal experience as a military spouse and mother, Ms. Winnefeld
has a keen awareness of the hardships that impact military families has
been a dedicated advocate to them for more than thirty years.

Prior to dedicating her life to the S.A.F.E. mission and advocating for
military and veteran families, Ms. Winnefeld was employed by Leidos/SAIC
for 19 years as a program manager for NATO as well as a serving on their
Ethics Board.

\###
