---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-09-24'
modified_time: 2021-09-24 21:55:24-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/09/24/joint-statement-from-quad-leaders/
published_time: 2021-09-24 21:55:23-04:00
title: "Joint Statement from Quad\_Leaders"
---
 
We, the leaders of Australia, India, Japan, and the United States,
convened today in person as “the Quad” for the first time. On this
historic occasion we recommit to our partnership, and to a region that
is a bedrock of our shared security and prosperity—a free and open
Indo-Pacific, which is also inclusive and resilient. Just six months
have passed since our last meeting. Since March, the COVID-19 pandemic
has caused continued global suffering; the climate crisis has
accelerated; and regional security has become ever-more complex, testing
all of our countries individually and together. Our cooperation,
however, remains unflinching.

The occasion of the Quad summit is an opportunity to refocus ourselves
and the world on the Indo-Pacific and on our vision for what we hope to
achieve. Together, we recommit to promoting the free, open, rules-based
order, rooted in international law and undaunted by coercion, to bolster
security and prosperity in the Indo-Pacific and beyond. We stand for the
rule of law, freedom of navigation and overflight, peaceful resolution
of disputes, democratic values, and territorial integrity of states. We
commit to work together and with a range of partners. We reaffirm our
strong support for ASEAN’s unity and centrality and for ASEAN’s Outlook
on the Indo-Pacific, and we underscore our dedication towards working
with ASEAN and its member states—the heart of the Indo-Pacific region—in
practical and inclusive ways. We also welcome the September 2021 EU
Strategy for Cooperation in the Indo-Pacific.

Since our first meeting, we have made considerable progress in tackling
some of the world’s most pressing challenges: the COVID-19 pandemic, the
climate crisis, and critical and emerging technologies.

Our partnership on COVID-19 response and relief marks an historic new
focus for the Quad. We launched the Quad Vaccine Experts Group,
comprised of top experts from our respective governments, charged with
building strong ties and better aligning our plans to support
Indo-Pacific health security and COVID-19 response. In doing so, we have
shared assessments of the state of the pandemic and aligned our efforts
to combat it, reinforced shared diplomatic principles for mitigating
COVID-19 in the region, and actively improved coordination of our
efforts to support safe, effective, quality-assured vaccine production
and equitable access, in close collaborations with multilateral efforts
including the COVAX Facility. In addition to doses financed through
COVAX, Australia, India, Japan, and the United States have pledged to
donate more than 1.2 billion doses globally of safe and effective
COVID-19 vaccines. And to date, we have delivered nearly 79 million
safe, effective, and quality-assured vaccine doses to countries in the
Indo-Pacific as part of those commitments. 

Thanks to the Quad Vaccine Partnership’s financing of increased
manufacturing capacity at Biological E LTD, additional production in
India will come on line later this year. In line with our March
announcement, and recognizing the continuing global supply gap, we will
ensure this expanded manufacturing is exported for the Indo-Pacific and
the world, and we will coordinate with key multilateral initiatives,
such as the COVAX Facility, to procure proven safe, effective and
quality-assured COVID-19 vaccines for low- and middle-income countries.
We also recognize the importance of open and secure supply chains for
vaccine production.

We have accomplished much to date despite months of pandemic hardship
throughout the region and world. The Quad leaders welcome Biological E
LTD’s production, including through our Quad investments, of at least
one billion safe and effective COVID-19 vaccines by the end of 2022.
Today, we are proud to announce an initial step towards that supply that
will immediately help the Indo-Pacific and the world to end the
pandemic. The Quad also welcomes India’s announcement to resume exports
of safe and effective COVID-19 vaccines, including to COVAX, beginning
in October 2021. Japan will continue to help regional partners purchase
vaccines through $3.3 billion of COVID-19 Crisis Response Emergency
Support Loan. Australia will deliver $212 million in grant aid to
purchase vaccines for Southeast Asia and the Pacific. In addition,
Australia will allocate $219 million to support last-mile vaccine
rollouts and lead in coordinating the Quad’s last-mile delivery efforts
in those regions.

We will also strengthen our Science and Technology (S&T) cooperation in
the areas of clinical trials and genomic surveillance so that we can
accelerate our efforts to end this pandemic and build better health
security. We are committed to align around shared global targets to help
vaccinate the world, save lives now, and build back better, including by
strengthening global health security financing and political
leadership.  Our countries will also conduct a joint
pandemic-preparedness tabletop or exercise in 2022.

We have joined forces to tackle the climate crisis, which must be
addressed with the urgency it demands. Quad countries will work together
to keep the Paris-aligned temperature limits within reach and will
pursue efforts to limit it to 1.5°C above pre-industrial levels. To this
end, Quad countries intend to update or communicate ambitious NDCs by
COP26 and welcome those who have already done so. Quad countries will
also coordinate their diplomacy to raise global ambition, including
reaching out to key stakeholders in the Indo-Pacific region. Our work is
organized across three thematic areas: climate ambition, clean-energy
innovation and deployment, and climate adaptation, resilience and
preparedness, with the intent to pursue enhanced actions during the
2020s, contributing to the aim of achieving global net-zero emissions
preferably by 2050, and taking into account national circumstances. We
are pursuing nationally appropriate sectoral decarbonization efforts,
including those aimed at decarbonizing shipping and port operations and
the deployment of clean-hydrogen technology. We will cooperate to
establish responsible and resilient clean-energy supply chains, and will
strengthen the Coalition for Disaster Resilient Infrastructure and
climate information systems. Quad countries will work together for
successful outcomes at the COP26 and G20 that uphold the level of
climate ambition and innovation that this moment requires.

We have established cooperation on critical and emerging technologies,
to ensure the way in which technology is designed, developed, governed,
and used is shaped by our shared values and respect for universal human
rights. In partnership with industry, we are advancing the deployment of
secure, open, and transparent 5G and beyond-5G networks, and working
with a range of partners to foster innovation and promote trustworthy
vendors and approaches such as Open-RAN.  Acknowledging the role of
governments in fostering an enabling environment for 5G diversification,
we will work together to facilitate public-private cooperation and
demonstrate in 2022 the scalability and cybersecurity of open,
standards-based technology. With respect to the development of technical
standards, we will establish sector-specific contact groups to promote
an open, inclusive, private-sector-led, multi-stakeholder, and
consensus-based approach. We will also coordinate and cooperate in
multilateral standardization organizations such as the International
Telecommunication Union. We are mapping the supply chain of critical
technologies and materials, including semiconductors, and affirm our
positive commitment to resilient, diverse, and secure supply chains of
critical technologies, recognizing the importance of government support
measures and policies that are transparent and market-oriented. We are
monitoring trends in the critical and emerging technologies of the
future, beginning with biotechnology, and identifying related
opportunities for cooperation. We are also launching today Quad
Principles on Technology Design, Development, Governance, and Use that
we hope will guide not only the region but the world towards
responsible, open, high-standards innovation.

Going forward, we will not only deepen our cooperation in these critical
areas, but we will broaden it to new ones. Building upon each of our
regional infrastructure efforts, separately and together, we are
launching a new Quad infrastructure partnership. As a Quad, we will meet
regularly to coordinate our efforts, map the region’s infrastructure
needs, and coordinate on regional needs and opportunities. We will
cooperate to provide technical assistance, empowering regional partners
with evaluative tools, and will promote sustainable infrastructure
development. We support the G7’s infrastructure efforts, and look
forward to cooperating with like-minded partners, including with the EU.
We reconfirm the G20 Quality Infrastructure Investment Principles and
will reenergize our efforts to provide high-standards infrastructure in
the Indo-Pacific. We reaffirm our interest in continuing our engagement
with the Blue Dot Network. We emphasize the importance of supporting
open, fair, and transparent lending practices in line with international
rules and standards for major creditor countries, including on debt
sustainability and accountability, and call on all creditors to adhere
to these rules and standards.

Today, we begin new cooperation in cyber space and pledge to work
together to combat cyber threats, promote resilience, and secure our
critical infrastructure. In space we will identify new collaboration
opportunities and share satellite data for peaceful purposes such as
monitoring climate change, disaster response and preparedness,
sustainable uses of oceans and marine resources, and on responding to
challenges in shared domains. We will also consult on rules, norms,
guidelines and principles for ensuring the sustainable use of outer
space.

We are proud to begin a new chapter of educational and people-to-people
cooperation as we inaugurate the Quad Fellowship. Stewarded by Schmidt
Futures, a philanthropic initiative, and with generous support from
Accenture, Blackstone, Boeing, Google, Mastercard, and Western Digital
this pilot fellowship program will provide 100 graduate fellowships to
leading science, technology, engineering, and mathematics graduate
students across our four countries. Through the Quad Fellowship, our
next generation of STEM talent will be prepared to lead the Quad and
other like-minded partners towards the innovations that will shape our
shared future.

In South Asia, we will closely coordinate our diplomatic, economic, and
human-rights policies towards Afghanistan and will deepen our
counter-terrorism and humanitarian cooperation in the months ahead in
accordance with UNSCR 2593. We reaffirm that Afghan territory should not
be used to threaten or attack any country or to shelter or train
terrorists, or to plan or to finance terrorist acts, and reiterate the
importance of combating terrorism in Afghanistan. We denounce the use of
terrorist proxies and emphasized the importance of denying any
logistical, financial or military support to terrorist groups which
could be used to launch or plan terror attacks, including cross-border
attacks. We stand together in support of Afghan nationals, and call on
the Taliban to provide safe passage to any person wishing to leave
Afghanistan, and to ensure that the human rights of all Afghans,
including women, children, and minorities are respected.

We also recognize that our shared futures will be written in the
Indo-Pacific, and we will redouble our efforts to ensure that the Quad
is a force for regional peace, stability, security, and prosperity.
Towards that end, we will continue to champion adherence to
international law, particularly as reflected in the UN Convention on the
Law of the Sea (UNCLOS), to meet challenges to the maritime rules-based
order, including in the East and South China Seas. We affirm our support
to small island states, especially those in the Pacific, to enhance
their economic and environmental resilience. We will continue our
assistance with Pacific Island countries on responses to the health and
economic impacts of COVID-19 and on quality, sustainable infrastructure,
as well as partner to mitigate and adapt to the impacts of climate
change, which poses especially serious challenges for the Pacific.

We reaffirm our commitment to the complete denuclearization of North
Korea in accordance with United Nations Security Council resolutions,
and also confirm the necessity of immediate resolution of the issue of
Japanese abductees. We urge North Korea to abide by its UN obligations,
refrain from provocations. We also call on North Korea to engage in
substantive dialogue. We are committed to building democratic resilience
in the Indo-Pacific and beyond. We continue to call for the end to
violence in Myanmar, the release of all political detainees, including
foreigners, engagement in constructive dialogue, and for the early
restoration of democracy. We further call for the urgent implementation
of the ASEAN Five Point Consensus. We will deepen our cooperation in
multilateral institutions, including at the United Nations, where
reinforcing our shared priorities enhances the resilience of the
multilateral system itself. Individually and together, we will respond
to the challenges of our time, ensuring that the region remains
inclusive, open, and governed by universal rules and norms.

We will continue to build habits of cooperation; our leaders and foreign
ministers will meet annually and our senior officials will meet
regularly. Our working groups will continue their steady tempo to
produce the cooperation necessary to build a stronger region.

At a time that tests us all, our commitment to realize a free and open
Indo-Pacific is firm, and our vision for this partnership remains
ambitious and far-reaching. With steadfast cooperation, we rise to meet
this moment, together.

\###
