---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-09-17'
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/09/17/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-actions-in-response-to-ongoing-crisis-in-northern-ethiopia/
published_time: 2021-09-17 07:19:07-04:00
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Actions in Response to Ongoing\
  \ Crisis in Northern\_Ethiopia"
---
 
*“My Administration will continue to press for a negotiated ceasefire,
an end to abuses of innocent civilians, and humanitarian access to those
in need.” *

*– President Biden*

Today, President Biden is taking further steps to respond to the ongoing
conflict in northern Ethiopia.  This conflict has sparked one of the
worst humanitarian and human rights crises in the world, with over 5
million people requiring humanitarian assistance and nearly one million
living in famine-like conditions. 

The parties to the conflict – including Ethiopian National Defense
Forces (ENDF), Eritrean Defense Forces (EDF), the Tigray People’s
Liberation Front (TPLF), and Amhara regional forces – have committed
human rights abuses against civilians.  There have been widespread
reports of armed actors committing brutal acts of murder, rape, and
other sexual violence against civilian populations.  The UN Population
Fund has estimated that tens of thousands of women and girls in northern
Ethiopia will need medical, mental health, psychosocial, and legal
services to begin to rebuild their lives following conflict-related
sexual and gender-based violence.

Together with allies, partners, and international organizations, the
United States calls on all parties to end hostilities, to allow and
facilitate unimpeded humanitarian access, to ensure accountability for
human rights abuses, and to enter into an inclusive dialogue to preserve
the unity of the Ethiopian state.  We also call on the Ethiopian
government and the TPLF to begin discussions without preconditions to
achieve a negotiated ceasefire and a political resolution of the
conflict.  In
[remarks](https://www.un.org/press/en/2021/sgsm20866.doc.htm) to the UN
Security Council in August, the UN Secretary-General was clear: “All
parties must recognize a simple truth: there is no military solution.” 

The United States is committed to helping Ethiopia address the ongoing
challenges, building on the deep and historic ties between our two
countries.  At President Biden’s direction, the United States is
actively pursuing measures to promote an end to the fighting, protect
human rights, and help meet humanitarian needs:

***Sanctioning Those Prolonging the Conflict and Perpetrating Abuses***

Today, President Biden signed an Executive Order (E.O.) establishing a
new sanctions regime that gives the U.S. Department of the Treasury
(Treasury), working with the U.S. Department of State (State), the
authority to hold accountable those in the Ethiopian government, the
Eritrean government, the TPLF, and the Amhara regional government who
are responsible for, or complicit in, prolonging the conflict,
obstructing humanitarian access, or preventing a ceasefire.  Treasury is
prepared to take action under this E.O. to impose targeted sanctions
against those responsible for the ongoing crisis. 

While imposing sanctions under this E.O., the United States will take
measures to mitigate unintended effects on the people of Ethiopia and
the wider region.  The United States will seek to ensure personal
remittances to non-sanctioned persons, humanitarian assistance to
at-risk populations, and longer-term assistance programs and commercial
activities that address basic human needs continue to flow to Ethiopia
and the greater Horn of Africa region through legitimate and transparent
channels. 

This Executive Order follows sanctions and visa restrictions the United
States has already imposed.  In August 2021, the Department of Treasury
[sanctioned](https://home.treasury.gov/news/press-releases/jy0329)
General Filipos Woldeyohannes, the Chief of Staff of the Eritrean
Defense Forces, pursuant to E.O. 13818, which builds upon and implements
the Global Magnitsky Human Rights Accountability Act.   In May 2021,
Secretary of State Antony Blinken
[announced](https://www.state.gov/united-states-actions-to-press-for-the-resolution-of-the-crisis-in-the-tigray-region-of-ethiopia/)
a policy under Section 212(a)(3)(C) of the Immigration and Nationality
Act imposing visa restrictions on individuals believed to be responsible
for, or complicit in, undermining resolution of the crisis in Tigray. 

The United States has imposed defense trade restrictions for exports to
Ethiopia amid the ongoing conflict and reported human rights abuses. 
The United States urges other countries to implement similar measures to
stop the flow of weapons to any parties to the conflict and support a
negotiated ceasefire.

The actions of those involved in the conflict will determine whether the
U.S. government imposes sanctions.  The United States is prepared to
impose sanctions if there is not progress toward a resolution of the
conflict.  If there is progress, the United States is prepared to work
with the international community to mobilize critical assistance for
Ethiopia to recover from this conflict, reorganize its significant debt,
and revitalize its economy.

***Facilitating Ceasefire Negotiations and a Political Resolution of the
Conflict***

Working with allies and partners, the United States is committed to
supporting the Ethiopian government and the TPLF to negotiate a
sustainable ceasefire and a peaceful resolution of the conflict.  At the
Carbis Bay Summit in June, G7 leaders
[urged](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/06/13/carbis-bay-g7-summit-communique/)
“an immediate cessation of hostilities” and pursuit of a peaceful
resolution to the crisis.  In August, a majority of UN Security Council
members publicly backed the Secretary-General’s call for the parties to
“immediately end hostilities without pre-conditions and seize the
opportunity to negotiate a lasting ceasefire.”  More broadly, the United
States encourages an inclusive and credible national dialogue in which
all Ethiopians have a say in their shared future.

In March 2021, President Biden sent Senator Coons and a high-level
delegation to meet with Ethiopian Prime Minister Ahmed Abiy and to offer
to help peacefully resolve the conflict.  In April 2021, the
Administration
[appointed](https://www.state.gov/special-envoy-for-the-horn-of-africa/)
Ambassador Jeffrey Feltman as U.S. Special Envoy for the Horn of
Africa.  Special Envoy Feltman is leading a diplomatic effort to address
the interlinked crises of the region.  To that end, the United States
will continue to work closely with our partners in the region, including
the chairman of the Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD),
Abdallah Hamdok, and welcomes the African Union Commission’s appointment
of former Nigerian President Olusegun Obasanjo as its High
Representative for the Horn of Africa. 

The United States has also provided support for local-level efforts in
Ethiopia to promote dialogue and reconciliation across political and
ethnic divisions. 

***Investigating and Documenting Human Rights Abuses***

Accountability for atrocities committed during the conflict is necessary
for peace and will help deter a recurrence of violence.  The United
States is committed to supporting the investigation and documentation of
human rights abuses in the ongoing conflict in order to lay the
groundwork for future accountability efforts. 

The United States has provided financial support for the ongoing joint
investigation by the UN Office of the High Commissioner of Human Rights
(OHCHR) and the Ethiopian Human Rights Commission.  The United States
cosponsored the European Union’s
[resolution](https://documents-dds-ny.un.org/doc/UNDOC/LTD/G21/176/04/PDF/G2117604.pdf?OpenElement)
at the UN Human Rights Council in July to strengthen this
investigation.  The United States conveyed further support for OHCHR’s
work at the Human Rights Council’s Interactive Dialogue on Ethiopia on
September 13.

The United States supports the ongoing commission of inquiry by the
African Commission of Human and People’s Rights.  The United States is
also committed to and planning financial support for a supplemental,
third-party-led human rights documentation initiative focused on
transitional justice and ensuring accountability for atrocities
committed by all parties in the ongoing conflict.

***Supporting the People of Ethiopia***

Ethiopia has made significant development gains in recent years, but the
conflict threatens that progress and the well-being of the Ethiopian
people.  The United States has a long record of partnering with the
people of Ethiopia to promote development, and while we have imposed
restrictions on certain economic and security assistance as a result of
the human rights situation, we continue to provide significant aid to
the Ethiopian people.  Ethiopia remains one of the largest recipients of
U.S. humanitarian and development assistance in the world,
spanning areas such as agriculture, health, clean water, food and
nutrition security, basic education, and support for women and girls.
 This assistance benefits all regions of Ethiopia.  

The United States is the single largest single donor of humanitarian aid
to Ethiopia, providing nearly $900 million in total humanitarian
assistance over the past year.  USAID has provided nearly 65% of all
donor contributions to date to the humanitarian response in northern
Ethiopia.  In August 2021, USAID Administrator Samantha Power
[visited](https://www.usaid.gov/news-information/press-releases/aug-6-2021-usaid-administrator-samantha-power-visits-ethiopia)
Ethiopia and Ethiopian refugee camps in neighboring Sudan and committed
to sustain ongoing assistance.

The United States is also committed to helping Ethiopia to address the
COVID-19 pandemic.  The United States has provided more than $185
million in COVID-19 related assistance to Ethiopia in addition to the
donation of nearly 2 million COVID-19 vaccine doses delivered to date. 
This support has included efforts to strengthen local health system
capacity for infection prevention control; reduce morbidity and
mortality through strengthening COVID-19 case management; accelerate
widespread and equitable access to and delivery of safe and effective
COVID-19 vaccinations; and mitigate the secondary humanitarian impacts
of COVID-19 through emergency food assistance to affected populations.

***Listening to and Partnering with U.S. Stakeholders, including
Ethiopian American Leaders***

The Administration is committed to building upon the deep and historic
ties between Ethiopia and the United States.  The United States benefits
tremendously from a large and vibrant Ethiopian-American community.  We
celebrate the rich contributions that individuals with ties to the Horn
of Africa make to all aspects of our nation, including in academia, the
arts, business, healthcare, sports, and more.  The Administration is
reaching out and creating opportunities for dialogue with
Ethiopian-American leaders and stakeholders.  We welcome their unique
ideas and contributions to promote understanding and healing across
ethnic and political lines as we seek to achieve the shared goal of a
united, peaceful Ethiopia.

*“The United States has a deep and long-lasting commitment to the people
of the Horn of Africa.  We will continue to speak out against violence
and inhumane treatment of any group of people, and we will continue our
support for addressing humanitarian needs in the region.  We believe
Ethiopia, a great and diverse nation, can overcome its current divisions
and resolve the ongoing conflict, beginning with a negotiated
ceasefire.  Building peace will not be easy, but it can and must begin
now with dialogue and by seeking unity in our common humanity.*

[*President Biden, September 10,
2021*](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/09/10/statement-by-president-joseph-r-biden-jr-on-the-celebration-of-enkutatash/)

\###
