---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-09-21'
modified_time: 2021-09-22 20:42:13-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/09/21/president-biden-announces-key-national-security-nominations/
published_time: 2021-09-21 16:19:55-04:00
title: "President\_Biden Announces Key National Security\_Nominations"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Joe Biden announced his intent to nominate
the following four individuals to serve in key national security roles:

-   Shannon Corless, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for Intelligence
    and Analysis, Department of Treasury

<!-- -->

-   Carrie Ricci, Nominee for General Counsel of the Army, Department of
    Defense
-   Douglas Bush, Nominee for Assistant Secretary of the Army for
    Acquisition, Logistics, and Technology, Department of Defense

<!-- -->

-   Ashish Vazirani, Nominee for Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for
    Personnel and Readiness, Department of Defense

**<u>Shannon Corless, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for Intelligence
and Analysis, Department of Treasury</u>**

Shannon Ratliff Corless is a career intelligence professional with
nearly 20 years of experience culminating in senior executive leadership
responsibilities. She currently serves as the Intelligence Community
Executive and National Intelligence Manager for Economic Security and
Financial Intelligence at the Office of the Director of National
Intelligence (ODNI). In this role she leads interagency and foreign
partnership activities related to economic security, energy security,
export controls, investment security, sanctions, supply chain,
telecommunications, threat finance, and trade.

Prior to this role, Ms. Corless served as the Director of the Investment
Security Group at ODNI’s National Intelligence Council, where she was
responsible for leading and coordinating multi-agency intelligence
assessments in support of investment security reviews, such as those led
by the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United States. She began
her government career at the Office of Naval Intelligence working on
South Asian maritime security affairs. A native of Tampa, Florida, Ms.
Corless received her Bachelor of Arts in international affairs from the
Florida State University, and a Masters in Business Administration from
the University of Tampa. Ms. Corless resides in Washington, DC with her
husband and two children.

**<u>Carrie Ricci, Nominee for General Counsel of the Army, Department
of Defense</u>**

Carrie Ricci currently serves as Associate General Counsel for the U.S.
Department of Agriculture, where she leads a legal team supporting two
mission areas: food safety and marketing and regulatory programs. 
Previously she served as Assistant General Counsel, Office of the
General Counsel, Department of Defense Education Activity.  Before
becoming a career civil servant, Ms. Ricci served in the U.S. Army,
retiring as a lieutenant colonel in 2010.  Some of Ms. Ricci’s
assignments included Assistant General Counsel, U.S. Army Office of the
General Counsel; Deputy Staff Judge Advocate, U.S. Army Intelligence and
Security Command; Chief, International Law, U.S. Central Command;
Administrative Law Attorney, Office of the Judge Advocate General; Trial
Counsel and Operational Law Attorney, 4th Infantry Division; and Platoon
Leader, Operations DESERT SHIELD and DESERT STORM.  In the fall of 2020,
Ms. Ricci served as a member of the Fort Hood Independent Review
Committee, a five-member panel of Highly Qualified Experts appointed by
the Secretary of the Army and the Army Chief of Staff to conduct a
review of the Fort Hood command climate and culture, resulting in a
136-page report that has spurred a robust response intended to benefit
Fort Hood and the entire Army.

Ms. Ricci is a graduate of Georgetown University and the University of
Maryland School of Law.  She holds a Master of Laws degree (LL.M.) from
The Judge Advocate General’s Legal Center and School, and a second LL.M
from the George Washington University School of Law.  She is a graduate
of the U.S. Army Command and General Staff College and holds a
certificate in Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion in the Workplace from
the University of South Florida.  She resides with her family in
Fairfax, VA.

**<u>Douglas Bush, Nominee for Assistant Secretary of the Army for
Acquisition, Logistics, and Technology, Department of Defense</u>**

Douglas R. Bush currently serves as the Acting Assistant Secretary of
the Army for Acquisition, Logistics, and Technology where he is
responsible for leadership of the Army’s acquisition enterprise,
overseeing all Army acquisition programs, and advising the Secretary of
the Army on acquisition programs and policies. Prior to serving in the
Biden-Harris Administration, he worked as a Congressional staff member
for more than eighteen years in a variety of positions in both the
Senate and House of Representatives. Most recently, from 2019 to 2021 he
served as Deputy Staff Director of the House Armed Services Committee,
where he was responsible for committee administration and operations,
while also advising Chairman Adam Smith on policy matters. From 2007 to
2018 he served on the House Armed Services Committee as a Professional
Staff Member, advising members of the committee on a wide range of
acquisition program and policy topics. During this time, he was
responsible for analysis and oversight of programs under the
jurisdiction of the Tactical Air and Land Forces subcommittee. His areas
of focus included Army and Marine Corps aviation, ground combat, and
network systems, as well as Air Force and Navy fighter aircraft,
unmanned systems, and weapons. In addition, for one year he conducted
oversight of programs and policies under the Seapower and Projection
Forces subcommittee, such as Navy shipbuilding and Air Force bomber,
transport, and tanker aircraft. Finally, for three of his years on the
committee he was also part of a team of staff members focused on
acquisition policy analysis and legislation, including many Department
of Defense acquisition reform efforts.

Prior to joining the House Armed Services Committee staff, he served as
Legislative Director for Congressman Neil Abercrombie, Military
Legislative Assistant for Congressman Jim Cooper, and Legislative
Correspondent for Senator Bill Nelson. In those roles he advised all
three members on a range of defense and foreign policy issues and
associated legislation. Before working for Congress, he began his career
in public service as an armor officer in the Army, where he served in
the 24th Infantry Division and 3rd Infantry Division, both at Fort
Stewart, Georgia. He holds a Bachelor of Science Degree from the United
States Military Academy and a Master of Arts in Security Studies Degree
from Georgetown University.

**<u>Ashish Vazirani, Nominee for Deputy Under Secretary of Defense for
Personnel and Readiness, Department of Defense</u>**

Ashish Vazirani is the Principal of A2O Strategies, LLC where he
provides advisory services to commercial and non-profit, high growth and
large enterprises, on the development, implementation, and execution of
growth strategies. Most recently, Vazirani was Executive Director and
CEO of the National Military Family Association (NMFA), where he
provided strategic and operational oversight, and direction for all
aspects of NMFA’s advocacy and programing to support military families.
During his tenure NMFA regained its four-star charity rating and
expanded programming, including a child care fee relief program. Before
joining NMFA, he led development and programming at the Armed Services
YMCA (ASYMCA) where he ensured implementation and measurement of
standardized programs serving junior enlisted military families.
Vazirani was also selected to serve as a Member of the National
Academies of Sciences, Engineering and Medicine’s Committee on the
Well-Being of Military Families. Prior to his work with the ASYMCA, he
spent 22 years as a management consultant working with leading high tech
and pharmaceutical companies to create transformational change while
delivering customer-centric solutions and profitable growth. Vazirani
served on active duty in the United States Navy as a Submarine Officer
from 1986 to 1993.

Vazirani holds a Bachelor’s degree in Mechanical Engineering from
Vanderbilt University, a Master of Engineering from the McCormick School
of Engineering at Northwestern University, and a M.B.A. from the Kellogg
School of Management at Northwestern University. His family immigrated
to the United States when he was 3 years old. He grew up in Silver
Spring, Maryland where he and his wife of 26 years, Deborah, currently
reside. They have an adult son and daughter. Vazirani is the son of a
combat wounded, Vietnam-era Marine and the father of a currently serving
Marine.

\###
