---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-09-03'
modified_time: 2021-09-03 14:41:22-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/09/03/fact-sheet-biden-administration-to-transform-capabilities-for-pandemic-preparedness/
published_time: 2021-09-03 15:00:00-04:00
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden Administration to Transform Capabilities for Pandemic\_\
  Preparedness"
---
 
President Biden is committed to combatting the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic
and Building Back Better for the next biological threat.  As part of
this responsibility, the United States must lean forward and catalyze
the advances in science, technology, and core capabilities required to
protect the Nation against future and potentially catastrophic
biological threats, whether naturally-occurring, accidental, or
deliberate.  
  
We must seize the opportunity to ready ourselves for the biological
threats on the horizon. Investing to avert or mitigate the huge toll of
future pandemics and other biological threats is an economic and moral
imperative. The cost of pandemic prevention pales in comparison to the
enormous cost – in lives and in economic cost – of a pandemic. It’s hard
to imagine a higher return on national investment.  
  
On January 20, the President directed a whole-of-government review of
U.S. national biopreparedness policies and re-established the National
Security Council Directorate on Global Health Security and Biodefense.
Today, we are releasing a plan for transforming U.S. capabilities to
prepare for and respond rapidly and effectively to future pandemics and
other high consequence biological threats. This plan is a core element
of the larger strategy to bolster and resource pandemic readiness and
biodefense.  
  
This plan, laid out in [***American Pandemic Preparedness: Transforming
our
Capabilities***](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/09/American-Pandemic-Preparedness-Transforming-Our-Capabilities-Final-For-Web.pdf),
lays out a set of urgent needs and opportunities in five key areas
necessary to protect the United States against biological threats:

**I. Transforming our Medical Defenses**, including dramatically
improving and expanding our arsenal of vaccines, therapeutics, and
diagnostics.

**II. Ensuring Situational Awareness** about infectious-disease threats,
for both early warning and real-time monitoring.

**III. Strengthening Public Health Systems**, both in the U.S. and
internationally to be able to respond to emergencies, with a particular
focus on reducing inequities and protecting the most vulnerable
communities.  

**IV. Building Core Capabilities**, including personal protective
equipment, stockpiles and supply chains, biosafety and biosecurity, and
regulatory improvement.  

**V. Managing the Mission**, with seriousness of purpose, commitment,
and accountability akin to the Apollo mission, which brought our
astronauts to the moon decades ago.  

This work will include, from the outset, a strong focus on ensuring
equity and access by all Americans to the resulting advances.  
  
Because transforming our capabilities will take time, it is imperative
that we start now.  
  
Achieving these capabilities will require a systematic effort and shared
vision for biological preparedness across our government.  Like any
ambitious endeavor – whether the Apollo mission or the Human Genome
Project that cracked the code of human genetics – transforming our
nation’s pandemic preparedness will take serious, sustained commitment
and ambitious accountability. And like those efforts, it is likely to
yield benefits beyond the original mission – in this case advances in
human health and providing tools that could overcome health inequities
and ensure equitable access to innovative products.  
  
In addition to this plan’s efforts to strengthen public health in the
context of pandemic preparedness, we also must address the broader need
to strengthen the U.S. public health system and reinvigorate our public
health workforce. The Biden-Harris Administration is committed to
efforts to support our public health workforce and to prevent the types
of public health inequities revealed by COVID-19.  
  
Over the next several weeks, we will be building on this vision as we
finalize our whole-of-government biopreparedness review, continue to
learn from COVID-19, and commit ourselves to a biodefense and pandemic
readiness strategy that builds back better in the United States and
around the world for this pandemic and the next.

\###
