---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-09-20'
modified_time: 2021-09-19 19:14:07-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/09/20/statement-by-president-joe-biden-on-mobilizing-the-administration-to-address-extreme-heat/
published_time: 2021-09-20 09:00:00-04:00
title: "Statement by President Joe\_Biden on Mobilizing the Administration to Address\
  \ Extreme\_Heat"
---
 
Over the past few weeks, I have traveled across the country to see
firsthand the devastating human and economic toll of extreme weather
exacerbated by climate change. I have walked down streets in Louisiana,
New Jersey, and New York, where deadly storms have blown apart the lives
of working families, wiping homes and businesses off the map. I’ve sat
with firefighters in Boise, Idaho, and surveyed the damage of the Caldor
Fire in northern California – just one of dozens of large wildfires that
together have burned more than 5 million acres of American land so far
this year. Communities that over 100 million people – one in three
Americans – call home have been struck by extreme weather events in the
last few months alone. This is a blinking code red for our nation.

And while we have all seen the graphic and heart-wrenching images of
super-storms, wildfires, and floods in recent weeks, another climate
disaster is lurking just below the radar: extreme heat. As with other
weather events, extreme heat is gaining in frequency and ferocity due to
climate change, threatening communities across the country. In fact, the
National Weather Service has confirmed that extreme heat is now the
leading weather-related killer in America. Rising temperatures pose an
imminent threat to millions of American workers exposed to the elements,
to kids in schools without air conditioning, to seniors in nursing homes
without cooling resources, and particularly to disadvantaged
communities.

My Administration will not leave Americans to face this threat alone.
Today, I am mobilizing an all-of-government effort to protect workers,
children, seniors, and at-risk communities from extreme heat. The
Department of Labor, the Department of Health and Human Services, the
Environmental Protection Agency, and other agencies will work together
to help ensure that the American people have safe and healthy working
conditions, provide cooling assistance to homes and neighborhoods, and
coordinate with state and local officials to bolster their resilience
and address the impacts of this threat.

As we deliver this relief, we cannot wait to act to meet the broader
crisis of climate change. Extreme weather cost America $99 billion in
damage last year – and we will break that record in 2021. We need to
rebuild with resilience in mind; we have to act, and act fast, to save
lives, homes, jobs, and industries, and build the clean energy economy
of the future. I urge Congress to deliver both the Bipartisan
Infrastructure Deal and my Build Back Better Agenda to my desk, so that
we can make the urgent investments the American people want and our
nation needs – to strengthen our nation’s resilience, create millions of
new jobs, and protect our families and communities from the growing
climate crisis.

\###
