---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-09-22'
modified_time: 2021-09-22 10:50:36-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/09/22/president-biden-announces-members-of-presidents-council-of-advisors-on-science-and-technology/
published_time: 2021-09-22 10:50:35-04:00
title: "President Biden Announces Members of President\u2019s Council of Advisors\
  \ on Science and Technology"
---
 
*Thirty Distinguished Leaders Represent Most Diverse PCAST in U.S.
History, Will Develop Science and Technology Recommendations to Address
Nation’s Most Pressing Challenges*

WASHINGTON – Today, [President Biden
announced](https://youtu.be/z26IOK5aaWk) 30 of America’s most
distinguished leaders in science and technology as members of his
President’s Council of Advisors on Science and Technology (PCAST). A
direct descendant of the scientific advisory committee established by
President Eisenhower in 1957 in the weeks after the launch of
Sputnik, PCAST is the sole body of external advisors charged with making
science, technology, and innovation policy recommendations to the
President and the White House.

Drawing from the nation’s most talented and accomplished individuals,
President Biden’s PCAST includes 20 elected members of the National
Academies of Sciences, Engineering and Medicine, five MacArthur “Genius”
Fellows, two former Cabinet secretaries, and two Nobel laureates. Its
members include experts in astrophysics and agriculture, biochemistry
and computer engineering, ecology and entrepreneurship, immunology and
nanotechnology, neuroscience and national security, social science and
cybersecurity, and more.

The [members represent](https://youtu.be/1aXB6hB1NfM/) the most diverse
PCAST in U.S. history. PCAST is traditionally co-chaired by the
President’s Science Advisor and 1-2 external co-chairs; since its
inception in 1957, no women have ever served as co-chairs. President
Biden’s PCAST has two women co-chairs. And, this PCAST reflects the
President’s commitment to build an Administration that truly looks like
America: for the first time ever, women make up half of PCAST, and
people of color and immigrants make up more than one-third of PCAST. Its
diversity will help the council bring to bear a wide range of
perspectives to address the nation’s most pressing opportunities and
challenges, so that science, technology, and engineering benefits all
Americans.

“The future of America depends on science and technology like never
before,” **said PCAST Co-Chair and Director of the White House Office of
Science and Technology Policy Dr. Eric Lander.** “President Biden
understands that addressing the opportunities and challenges we face –
to our health, our planet, our economic prosperity, and our national
security – will require harnessing the full power of science and
technology. Scientific progress depends on people seeing things in new
ways, because they bring different lenses, different experiences,
different passions, different questions. This PCAST is uniquely prepared
because of its extraordinary scientific breadth, wide range of work
experiences, and unprecedented diversity.”

“We are thrilled that some of our most accomplished Americans are
willing to step up and serve the nation by being members of PCAST,”
**saidPCAST Co-Chair Dr. Frances Arnold.** “Their vast expertise will
help the nation build back better through science and technology.” 

“Science and technology permeate so many elements of government decision
making,” **said PCAST Co-Chair Dr. Maria Zuber.** “I am excited to bring
this historic and brilliant group’s knowledge, experience, and
innovative thinking to bear on the nation’s toughest challenges in
science and technology and navigate an equitable and inclusive path
forward for the nation.”

As directed in the President’s executive order establishing PCAST, the
council includes advisors from outside the federal government who are
responsible for advising the President “on matters involving policy
affecting science, technology, and innovation, as well as on matters
involving scientific and technological information that is needed to
inform public policy relating to the economy, worker empowerment,
education, energy, the environment, public health, national and homeland
security, racial equity, and other topics.”

*Read more about the PCAST members below. Additional information about
PCAST and the PCAST members can be found at*
[*www.whitehouse.gov/PCAST*](http://www.whitehouse.gov/PCAST)*.  
*  
**PCAST CO-CHAIRS  
**  
**Frances Arnold, Ph.D.,** is a biochemical engineer who pioneered how
to harness evolution to create proteins, for which she received the
Nobel Prize in Chemistry and became the first American woman to do so.
She holds more than 60 U.S. patents and co-founded three companies in
sustainable fuels, chemistry, and agriculture. She is the Linus Pauling
Professor of Chemical Engineering, Bioengineering, and Biochemistry at
the California Institute of Technology.

**Eric Lander, Ph.D.,** is a geneticist, molecular biologist, and
mathematician who serves as the President’s Science Advisor and Director
of the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy, and is a
member of the President’s Cabinet. One of the nation’s leading life
scientists, he was a principal leader of the Human Genome Project and
was president and founding director of the Broad Institute of Harvard
and MIT, which propels work on genomic medicine. He was PCAST’s external
co-chair during all eight years of the Obama-Biden administration.  

**Maria T. Zuber, Ph.D.,** is a geophysicist and planetary scientist who
has produced several topography and gravity maps of planetary bodies
that exceed the quality and resolution of those for Earth. She has led a
dozen experiments on ten NASA missions and was the first woman to lead a
NASA planetary mission. She is the Vice President for Research and E. A.
Griswold Professor of Geophysics at the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology (MIT), where she was the first woman to lead one of the
university’s science departments.

**PCAST MEMBERS**  
  
**Marvin Adams, Ph.D., P.E.,** is a nuclear engineer and computational
physicist who develops and applies complex computational algorithms to
problems related to nuclear energy and national security. He has
experience in nuclear reactor physics and design, nuclear weapons
analysis and modernization, counterproliferation, and arms control. He
chairs the Mission Committee at Los Alamos National Laboratory, which
oversees the laboratory’s weapons and global security programs, serves
on the Nuclear Effects Advisory Panel for the U.S. Department of
Defense, and has served for several years on the Stockpile Assessment
Team for U.S. Strategic Command. He is the HTRI Professor of Nuclear
Engineering, Regents Fellow, and Director of National Laboratories
Mission Support in the Texas A&M University System.

**Dan E. Arvizu, Ph.D.,** is a mechanical engineer and an expert in
energy materials, process sciences, and technology commercialization
with over 30 years of experience in various roles at Department of
Energy (DOE) National Laboratories. He served as Director and Chief
Executive of the National Renewable Energy Laboratory during the
Obama-Biden administration, in which role he was the first Hispanic to
lead a DOE national laboratory. Currently he is a leader in higher
education as the Chancellor of the New Mexico State University System, a
Land Grant, Space Grant, Hispanic-Serving Institution, bringing a focus
on harnessing education, research, and outreach initiatives to foster
economic development and social mobility.

**John Banovetz, Ph.D.,** is a chemist, materials scientist, and
business leader with over 25 years’ experience in corporate research and
technology development, manufacturing, strategy, innovation, and
environmental stewardship. He holds multiple patents in polymer science
and adhesives, and oversees more than 8,000 researchers worldwide in his
role as the Executive Vice President, Chief Technology Officer and
Environmental Responsibility at 3M Company, a leading industrial, worker
safety, health care, and consumer goods manufacturing company.

**Ashton Carter, D.Phil**.**,** is a physicist and technologist who
served as the 25<sup>th</sup> U.S. Secretary of Defense. While serving
in the Obama-Biden administration’s Cabinet, he built and restored
bridges between the Pentagon and America’s private-sector technology and
innovation ecosystem, designed and executed the Defense Department’s
strategic pivot to the Asia-Pacific region, opened all the military’s
combat positions to women, and lifted the ban on transgender service
members. He is Director of the Harvard Kennedy School’s Belfer Center
for Science and International Affairs and Belfer Professor of Technology
and Global Affairs at Harvard University. 

**Frances Colón, Ph.D.,** is a neuroscientist and science diplomat who
served as Deputy Science and Technology Adviser to the U.S. Secretary of
State during the Obama-Biden administration. Her diverse experience in
science diplomacy has included coordinating climate change policy for
the Energy and Climate Partnership of the Americas, helping American
immigrant scientists build networks of scientists to solve problems in
their countries of origin, working to advance the careers of women and
girls in science, technology, engineering, and math (STEM), and leading
scientific re-engagement with Cuba. Born and raised in Puerto Rico,
Colón is currently the Senior Director for International Climate at the
Center for American Progress.

**Lisa A. Cooper, M.D., M.P.H.,** is an internal medicine physician,
social epidemiologist, and health services researcher who was among the
first to document how doctor-patient relationships can help overcome
racial and ethnic disparities in healthcare. Born in Liberia, she is one
of the United States’ leading researchers and practitioners in the field
of health equity, having designed innovative approaches to improve
physicians’ communication skills, patients’ self-management skills, and
the ability of healthcare organizations to address the needs of
populations experiencing health disparities. She serves as the Bloomberg
Distinguished Professor of Equity in Health and Healthcare at Johns
Hopkins University, and is Director of the Johns Hopkins Center for
Health Equity.

**John O. Dabiri, Ph.D.,** is an aeronautical engineer who designs
next-generation wind turbines with the potential to reduce cost, size,
and environmental impacts while maximizing the amount of electricity
generated. His discoveries on the ideal placement of wind turbines were
shaped by his cross-disciplinary research into how jellyfish and schools
of fish move throughout the ocean efficiently. A recipient of the
MacArthur Foundation “Genius” Fellowship, he is the Centennial Professor
of Aeronautics and Mechanical Engineering at the California Institute of
Technology.

**William Dally, Ph.D.,** is a computer scientist who invented hardware
architectures that power parallel computing, modern supercomputers, and
artificial intelligence as we know it today; he holds 120 patents and
has authored more than 250 papers and 4 textbooks in these fields. The
former chair of Stanford University’s computer science department and a
frequent consultant to many government defense and intelligence agencies
on high-performance computing and artificial intelligence, he is the
Chief Scientist and Senior Vice President for Research at NVIDIA, a
leading computer chip and technology company.

**Sue Desmond-Hellmann, M.D., M.P.H.,** is a physician-scientist who led
the development of the first gene-targeted drug for treating breast
cancer. Her medical, scientific, and philanthropic career spans 40
years: from academic medicine and clinical practice studying cancer and
HIV/AIDS, to running research and product development at some of
America’s top biotechnology companies, to leading higher education at
one of California’s marquis graduate institutions, to running the
world’s largest private foundation. She is the former CEO of the Bill &
Melinda Gates Foundation, and previously served as Chancellor of the
University of California, San Francisco (UCSF), where she was the first
woman to hold that role.

**Inez Fung, Sc.D., **is an atmospheric scientist and one of the world’s
leading experts on climate and the carbon cycle – how carbon dioxide
moves throughout the land, oceans, and the atmosphere – and how its
movement both depends on and alters our planet’s climate. An immigrant
to the United States from Hong Kong and a contributor to the United
Nations’ Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, she is a Professor
of Atmospheric Science at the University of California, Berkeley, and
was the second woman to graduate from MIT with a doctorate in
meteorology. 

**Andrea Goldsmith, Ph.D.,** is a pioneer in the field of wireless
communications whose discoveries have influenced cellular and WiFi
networks all over the world: from powering the latest generations of
high-speed wireless, to enabling smart home appliances, to preventing
cell phone calls from dropping when we walk or drive down the street.
She is the Dean of the School of Engineering and Applied Science and the
Arthur LeGrand Doty Professor of Electrical and Computer Engineering at
Princeton University, and was the first woman to win the Marconi Prize,
the highest honor in telecommunications research.

**Laura H. Greene, Ph.D.,** is a physicist and expert in quantum
mechanics known for her discoveries and research in unconventional
superconducting materials and high magnetic fields. She is also a
leading advocate for diversity in science and a champion for women in
scientific and engineering fields, having promoted the impact of women
and young scientists around the world, particularly in developing
countries. She is the Chief Scientist of the National High Magnetic
Field Laboratory (at Florida State University, the University of
Florida, and Los Alamos National Laboratory) and the Marie Krafft
Professor of Physics at Florida State University.

**Paula Hammond, Ph.D.,** is a chemical engineer who designs nanoscale
materials that can deliver drugs to specific parts of the body. Her work
includes designing tiny particles that target chemotherapy drugs
directly to tumor cells, and nanostructured dressings that rapidly stop
bleeding to save the lives of soldiers wounded on the battlefield. She
is a leading researcher in how to use polymers, nanotechnology, and
biomaterials to improve human health. In her past work, she has designed
polymers to improve batteries, solar cells, and alternative fuel cells.
She is Head of MIT’s Department of Chemical Engineering – where she was
the first woman and person of color to hold that position – and an
Institute Professor and member of the Koch Institute for Integrative
Cancer Research at MIT.

**Eric Horvitz, Ph.D., M.D.,** is a computer scientist and a leading
researcher in artificial intelligence (AI) and issues at the
intersection of technology, people, and society – including the
technical and societal challenges and opportunities presented by AI’s
uses. He has made influential contributions with developing and fielding
frontier technologies in biomedicine, transportation, aerospace, and
computing systems and services, and he has been awarded the Feigenbaum
Prize and the Allen Newell Award for advances in AI. He is Chief
Scientific Officer at Microsoft, where he previously led Microsoft
Research.

**Joe Kiani,M.S.E.E.,** is an engineer and entrepreneur who invented
breakthrough technologies – now used in hospitals, homes, and even on
our wrists – that use light to measure how much oxygen is in a person’s
blood. He is listed on more than 500 patents or patent applications on
advanced signal processing, optical sensors, and wearable technologies.
An immigrant to the United States from Iran at age nine, he is the
founder, chairman, and CEO of Masimo Corporation, a global medical
technology company known for its pulse oximetry devices and other
noninvasive patient monitoring technologies.

**Jonathan Levin, Ph.D.,** is an economist and academic leader widely
recognized for his research in industrial organization, technological
change, health insurance, allocation of radio spectrum, and the
economics of internet markets. In 2011, he was awarded the prestigious
John Bates Clark Medal – awarded each year to the American economist
under age 40 who is judged to have made the most significant
contribution to economic thought and knowledge – which is considered to
be among the most noteworthy prizes in the field of economics, second
only to the Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences. He is currently
the Philip H. Knight Professor and Dean of the Graduate School of
Business at Stanford University.

**Steve Pacala, Ph.D.,** is an ecologist and environmental biologist who
designs and tests mathematical models to investigate interactions
between greenhouse gases, climate, and the biosphere, and to predict
their effects on local and global ecosystems. He is the co-author of the
climate stabilization “wedge” approach, which argued over 15 years ago
that climate change could be solved using science, technologies and
industries already within humanity’s grasp. He is the Frederick D.
Petrie Professor in the Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology
at Princeton University.

**Saul Perlmutter, Ph.D.,** is an astrophysicist and cosmologist who
received the Nobel Prize in Physics for discovering that the expansion
of our universe is accelerating. He leads one of NASA’s science teams
for the Nancy Grace Roman Space Telescope, and also develops and teaches
courses on scientific-style critical thinking for scientists and
nonscientists alike. Further honors for his groundbreaking research
include the Shaw Prize in Astronomy, the Breakthrough Prize in
Fundamental Physics, and the Albert Einstein Medal. He is the Franklin
W. and Karen Weber Dabby Professor of Physics and Director of the
Berkeley Institute for Data Science at University of California,
Berkeley and Senior Scientist at Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory.

**William Press, Ph.D.,** is a computer scientist, computational
biologist, and astrophysicist who co-discovered the mathematical model
for predicting the distribution of masses of galaxies throughout the
universe. He previously served as deputy director of Los Alamos National
Laboratory and as the Vice-Chair of PCAST during the Obama-Biden
administration. He has wide-ranging experience as a researcher and
manager across the physical and life sciences in universities and
national laboratories, including applications to national security
issues. He is the Leslie Surginer Professor of Computer Science and
Integrative Biology at The University of Texas at Austin.

**Penny Pritzker, J.D., M.B.A.,** is an entrepreneur, businesswoman, and
civic leader who served as the 38<sup>th</sup> U.S. Secretary of
Commerce. As a Cabinet member during the Obama-Biden administration,
Pritzker launched and managed the Manufacturing USA network of 16
regional innovation hubs, oversaw the nation’s commercial and
atmospheric science and technology agencies, led broadband deployment
for underserved communities, administered programs for enhancing
cybersecurity, privacy, and intellectual property, and launched the
Commerce Department’s first-ever skilled workforce training initiative.
She is Chairman and Founder of PSP Partners, Chairman of the Board of
the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, and founded and built
several leading businesses over the course of her career.

**Jennifer Richeson, Ph.D.,** is a social psychologist whose research
has illuminated how identities – particularly racial identities – are
formed and shaped through interactions with others. She is one of
America’s leading scholars of interracial interactions, racial identity,
bias and prejudice, cultural diversity, social inequality, and
injustice. She has received multiple prestigious awards for her work,
including the MacArthur Foundation “Genius” Fellowship. Richeson is the
Philip R. Allen Professor of Psychology and Director of the Social
Perception and Communication Lab at Yale University.

**Vicki Sato, Ph.D.,** is a biologist, immunologist, and biotechnology
executive with decades of experience leading teams in drug research and
development. Molecules and therapeutics developed under her leadership
have become critical treatments for HIV, cystic fibrosis, inflammation,
multiple sclerosis, and Hepatitis C. She was Chief Science Officer and
ultimately President of Vertex Pharmaceuticals, one of the first
biotechnology companies to use structure-based and computational
chemistries in the design of new drugs. Sato spent several years as
Professor of the Practice in the department of Molecular and Cell
Biology at Harvard University and Professor of Management Practice at
Harvard Business School, where her work focused on productivity and
innovation in biotechnology and pharmaceutical research and development.

**Lisa T. Su, Ph.D.,** is an electrical engineer who is an expert in
semiconductor devices and high-performance processors.  She pioneered
new ways to connect computer chips using copper instead of aluminum,
resulting in 20% faster chip speeds. An American immigrant from Taiwan,
she is President and CEO of Advanced Micro Devices (AMD), a leading
semiconductor and microprocessor company. She is a recipient of the IEEE
Robert N. Noyce Medal (the first woman to receive the award), and has
been named *Fortune* Magazine’s \#2 “Business Person of the Year” for
2020 and one of *Barron*’s “World’s Best CEOs” of 2019.

**Kathryn Sullivan, Ph.D.,** is a geologist, former NASA astronaut, and
oceanographer who served as Under Secretary of Commerce for Oceans and
Atmosphere and Administrator of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration (NOAA) during the Obama-Biden administration. Sullivan
flew on three Space Shuttle missions, including the mission that
deployed the Hubble Space Telescope. She was the first American woman to
walk in space, the first woman to dive to the Challenger Deep in the
Mariana Trench (the deepest part of the Earth’s oceans), and is the
first and only person to do both. She has previously served in
leadership positions in Ohio’s Center of Science and Industry, higher
education, the private sector, and the federal government, including as
NOAA’s chief scientist.

**Terence Tao, Ph.D.,** is a mathematician known for his breadth of
achievement in research covering both pure and applied mathematics,
including important contributions to compressive sensing (used in signal
processing and cryptography) and number theory. He is a recipient of the
Fields Medal, which is often described as the Nobel Prize of
mathematics, and a MacArthur Foundation “Genius” Fellowship. An American
immigrant from Australia, he is Professor of Mathematics and the James
and Carol Collins Chair in the College of Letters and Sciences at the
University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA).

**Phil Venables, M.Sc.,** is a computer scientist, software engineer,
and expert in technology, security, and enterprise risk who has
co-founded and led multiple corporate and industry-wide cybersecurity
initiatives focused on safeguarding critical infrastructure in the
financial sector. This includes Sheltered Harbor, FS-ARC, and FS-ISAC,
which collectively provide a sector-wide capability to prevent, detect,
respond, and recover from cyberattacks against the global financial
system. He is Chief Information Security Officer at Google Cloud, a
member of the NIST Information Security and Privacy Advisory Board, a
Distinguished Expert for the National Security Agency’s Science of
Security program, co-founder of the Center for Internet Security, and
previously was a Partner, Chief Information Security Officer, and Chief
Operational Risk Officer at Goldman Sachs.

**Catherine Woteki, Ph.D.,** is an agriculture and food scientist and
nutritionist who served in the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) as
Chief Scientist and Under Secretary for Research, Education, and
Economics during the Obama-Biden administration, where she oversaw
USDA’S Agricultural Research Service, Economic Research Service, the
National Institute of Food and Agriculture, and the National
Agricultural Statistics Service. One of the nation’s leading researchers
in the fields of human nutrition, food safety, agriculture, and health
policy, she previously served as USDA’s first Under Secretary of Food
Safety. She is Visiting Distinguished Institute Professor in the
Biocomplexity Institute at the University of Virginia and Professor of
Food Science and Human Nutrition at Iowa State University.

\###
