---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-09-03'
modified_time: 2021-09-03 15:24:42-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/09/03/a-proclamation-on-national-historically-black-colleges-and-universities-week-2021/
published_time: 2021-09-03 15:24:41-04:00
title: A Proclamation on National Historically Black Colleges and Universities Week,
  2021
---
 
Since 1837, Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs) have
educated and prepared millions of people to lift up our Nation and make
their impact on the world.  These essential institutions have been
critical engines of opportunity for generations of American families —
they are incubators of excellence, helping to shape the story of our
Nation and deliver on the promise of a more perfect Union.  During
National Historically Black Colleges and Universities Week, we celebrate
the vital role that HBCUs play in molding Black leaders and ensuring
that America continues to move closer to reaching its full potential.  
  
From Delaware State — which has always held a special place in my heart
— to more than 100 institutions across the country, HBCU graduates are
the bearers of a proud and sacred tradition.  It is the tradition of the
Reverend Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr., and Thurgood Marshall, of Toni
Morrison and Langston Hughes, of Reverend Jesse Jackson and Reverend
William Barber.  It is the tradition of countless scholars and
advocates; leaders of industry, arts, and sciences; and leaders of faith
and community.  It is the tradition of trailblazers — including the
first HBCU graduate elected to the Vice Presidency, Kamala Harris. 
It is a tradition rooted in a fundamental belief that quality education
is a right that belongs to all people — that every single American
should have a fair and equal chance to go as far as their God-given
talents can take them.   
  
Opposition to that belief has been a stain on our Nation since its
founding.  After President Lincoln signed the Emancipation Proclamation,
Black Americans were still subjected to persistent legal and social
discrimination.  Laws were enacted to stifle their progress, including
laws that denied Black Americans access to the same educational
opportunities as white Americans.  Across the generations since,
progress has been won.  Racial segregation of public schools was struck
down by the Supreme Court in a case successfully argued by HBCU
graduates.  The Civil Rights Act of 1964 prohibited discrimination in
public accommodations and federally-funded programs.  Over time, hearts
and minds have been changed.  For more than 180 years, HBCUs have been
on the forefront of that progress.  
  
Still, the wound — and the reality — of systemic racism remains.  We see
it in our education system, our labor force, our health care system, our
criminal justice system, and in so many other corners of our society. 
We see it in the COVID-19 pandemic, which revealed and exacerbated
longstanding disparities in areas like food security, internet access,
and medical care.  For Black women and girls, LGBTQ+ Black Americans,
and Black Americans with disabilities — we see it compounded with other
forms of discrimination and bias.  As they have throughout their
existence, HBCUs have risen to the occasion to serve their students and
communities over the last year and a half — helping to develop
breakthrough treatments, hosting life-saving COVID-19 vaccination sites,
and nurturing movements for justice and equality.  
  
My Administration stands with HBCUs and is committed to the fundamental
American promise they represent:  that all of us are created equal and
have a right to be treated equally throughout our lives.  Too many times
throughout our history, we have allowed a narrow, cramped view of that
promise to fester — the false idea that America is a zero-sum game of
opportunity, where a person can only lift themselves up by holding
others down.  It is critical that we shed that flawed way of thinking
and finally embrace what we know to be true:  that when any one of us is
held back, we are all held back, and when we lift each other up, we are
all lifted up.

That idea — the defining idea of America — is why I issued an Executive
Order on my first day in office establishing a whole-of-government
approach to equity and racial justice. It is why I have built the most
diverse Cabinet in history, why I am appointing Black judges to the
Federal judiciary at an historic rate, and why we are continuing to
build an Administration that truly looks like America.

It is also why we will continue to support HBCUs in their vital
mission.  Imagine how much more creative and innovative America would be
if our HBCUs had the same funding and resources as other institutions —
allowing young people from every community to compete for the jobs and
industries of the future.  To help make that a reality, my
Administration has proposed approximately $239 million in new
institutional aid funding for HBCUs in the Department of Education
budget for next year, including $72 million in new discretionary funding
for HBCUs.  In addition, my Administration has proposed approximately
$167 million in new mandatory funding for HBCUs and to provide 2 years
of subsidized tuition and expand programs in high-demand fields at
HBCUs. 

I today signed an Executive Order establishing the White House
Initiative on Advancing Educational Equity, Opportunity, and Excellence
through Historically Black Colleges and Universities, which will create
a Government-wide approach to support the needs of HBCUs and the
communities they serve and eliminate systemic barriers impeding HBCU
participation in Federal programs.  

This is only the beginning of our work to support HBCUs and the
remarkable students they empower and grow.  This week and every week, we
will continue to celebrate and advance the historic and ongoing success
of our HBCUs — because we know that their success is America’s success.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim September 5
through September 11, 2021, as National Historically Black Colleges and
Universities Week. I call upon educators, public officials, professional
organizations, corporations, and all Americans to observe this week with
appropriate programs, ceremonies, and activities that acknowledge the
countless contributions these institutions and their alumni have made to
our country.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this third day of
September, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-sixth.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
