---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-09-23'
modified_time: 2021-09-23 20:08:34-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/09/23/readout-of-biden-administration-convening-to-discuss-and-address-semiconductor-supply-chain/
published_time: 2021-09-23 20:08:33-04:00
title: Readout of Biden Administration Convening to Discuss and Address Semiconductor
  Supply Chain
---
 
Today, Secretary of Commerce Gina Raimondo and National Economic Council
Director Brian Deese convened semiconductor industry participants and
discussed the progress industry has made to address supply chain
challenges and increase supply chain transparency, following the
convenings hosted by the Administration in April and May. The progress
includes improved communication and trust across the supply chain and
improvements in the supply chain practices of chip consumers.

The Administration reaffirmed that industry needs to be in the lead in
resolving the supply chain bottlenecks that are occurring due to the
global chip shortage. Industry reiterated its commitment to transparency
initiatives, which will help keep Americans at work and allow factories
to produce goods on schedule.  

Participants noted how the global pandemic has exacerbated the shortage,
and welcomed the swift actions taken by the Administration to work with
diplomatic partners to strengthen the public health response in key
production locales to support the safe reopening of factories. The
Administration announced that it was formalizing this effort, with the
Department of Commerce and the State Department now working together to
manage an early alert system to proactively manage potential
semiconductor supply chain disruptions linked to public health
developments in key trading partners. The goals of this enhanced effort
include early detection of potential disruptions, enhanced engagement
with foreign governments and industry, and promotion of transparency
across the supply chain, while balancing worker health and safety and
the safe reopening of critical industries and supporting the local
public health response. Technical experts from USAID and the CDC will
play key roles in carrying out this mission.

Additionally, today, the Commerce Department launched a Request for
Information that is asking all parts of the supply chain – producers,
consumers, and intermediaries – to voluntarily share information about
inventories, demand, and delivery dynamics. The goal of the RFI is to
understand and quantify where bottlenecks may exist. Secretary Raimondo
called on business leaders to respond to the RFI in the next 45 days and
help improve trust and transparency within the supply chain.

Longer term solutions to the shortage are still important, and that is
why Congress needs to act to both build a domestic industrial capacity
for chips and create a new supply chain resiliency program at the
Commerce Department so that we can have the ability to monitor
vulnerabilities and take action to close them. These actions are
critical to advance both our economic competitiveness and our national
security. 

Read more
here: <https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/blog/2021/09/23/when-the-chips-are-down-preventing-and-addressing-supply-chain-disruptions/>

\###
