---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-09-24'
modified_time: 2021-09-27 12:18:28-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/09/24/fact-sheet-quad-leaders-summit/
published_time: 2021-09-24 21:51:14-04:00
title: "Fact Sheet: Quad Leaders\u2019\_Summit"
---
 
On September 24, President Biden hosted Prime Minister Scott Morrison of
Australia, Prime Minister Narendra Modi of India, and Prime Minister
Yoshihide Suga of Japan at the White House for the first-ever in-person
Leaders’ Summit of the Quad. The leaders have put forth ambitious
initiatives that deepen our ties and advance practical cooperation on
21<sup>st</sup>-century challenges: ending the COVID-19 pandemic,
including by increasing production and access to safe and effective
vaccines; promoting high-standards infrastructure; combatting the
climate crisis; partnering on emerging technologies, space, and
cybersecurity; and cultivating next-generation talent in all of our
countries.

**<u>COVID and Global Health</u>**

Quad leaders recognize that the most immediate threat to lives and
livelihoods in our four countries and the world is the COVID-19
pandemic. And so in March, Quad leaders launched the Quad Vaccine
Partnership, to help enhance equitable access to safe and effective
vaccines in the Indo-Pacific and the world. Since March, the Quad has
taken bold actions to expand safe and effective COVID-19 vaccine
manufacturing capacity, donated vaccines from our own supply, and worked
together to assist the Indo-Pacific in responding to the pandemic. The
Quad Vaccine Experts Group remains the heart of our cooperation, meeting
regularly to brief on the latest pandemic trends and coordinate our
collective COVID-19 response across the Indo-Pacific, including by
piloting the Quad Partnership COVID-19
[Dashboard](https://share.usaid.gov/views/QUADCountryCOVID-19ResponseDashboard/Indo-PacificRegionOverview?%3AshowAppBanner=false&%3Adisplay_count=n&%3AshowVizHome=n&%3Aorigin=viz_share_link&%3AisGuestRedirectFromVizportal=y&%3Aembed=y).
We welcome President Biden’s September 22 COVID-19 Summit, and
acknowledge that our work continues. The Quad will:

-   **Help Vaccinate the World:** As Quad countries, we have pledged to
    donate more than 1.2 billion vaccine doses globally, in addition to
    the doses we have financed through COVAX. To date we have
    collectively delivered nearly 79 million safe and effective vaccine
    doses to the Indo-Pacific region. Our Vaccine Partnership remains on
    track to expand manufacturing at Biological E Ltd. this fall, so
    that it can produce at least 1 billion doses of COVID-19 vaccines by
    the end of 2022. As a first step towards that new capacity, the
    leaders will announce bold actions that will immediately help the
    Indo-Pacific in its quest to end the pandemic. We recognize the
    importance of open and secure supply chains for vaccine production.
    The Quad welcomed India’s announcement to resume exports of safe and
    effective COVID-19 vaccines, including to COVAX, beginning in
    October 2021. Through $3.3 billion in the COVID-19 Crisis Response
    Emergency Support Loan program, Japan will continue to help regional
    countries to procure safe, effective, and quality-assured vaccines.
    Australia will deliver $212 million in grant aid to purchase
    vaccines for Southeast Asia and the Pacific. In addition, Australia
    will allocate $219 million to support last-mile vaccine rollouts and
    lead in coordinating the Quad’s last-mile delivery efforts in those
    regions. Quad member countries will coordinate with the ASEAN
    Secretariat, the COVAX Facility, and other relevant organizations.
    We will continue to strengthen and support the life-saving work
    of international organizations and partnerships, including the
    WHO, COVAX, Gavi, CEPI, and UNICEF; and national governments. At the
    same time, the leaders are fully committed to strengthening vaccine
    confidence and trust. To that end, Quad countries will host an event
    at the 75<sup>th</sup> World Health Assembly (WHA) dedicated to
    combatting hesitancy.

<!-- -->

-   **Save Lives Now:** Together as the Quad, we are committed to taking
    further action in the Indo-Pacific to save lives now. Japan, through
    Japan Bank for International Cooperation, will work with India to
    enhance key investments of approximately $100 million in the
    healthcare sector related to COVID-19, including vaccine and
    treatment drugs. We will utilize the Quad Vaccine Experts Group and
    convene as needed to urgently consult in relation to our emergency
    assistance.  

<!-- -->

-   **Build Back Better Health Security:** The Quad commits to better
    preparing our countries and the world for the next pandemic. We will
    continue to build coordination in our broader COVID-19 response and
    health-security efforts in the Indo-Pacific, and we will jointly
    build and conduct at least one pandemic preparedness tabletop or
    exercise in 2022. We will also further strengthen our science and
    technology cooperation in support of the 100-Day Mission—to have
    safe and effective vaccines, therapeutics, and diagnostics available
    within 100 days—now and into the future. This includes collaboration
    on current and future clinical trials, such as launching additional
    sites for the international Accelerating COVID-19 Therapeutic
    Interventions and Vaccines (ACTIV) trials, which can expedite
    investigation of promising new vaccines and therapeutics, while at
    the same time supporting countries in the region to improve their
    capacity to undertake scientifically sound clinical research. We
    will support the call for a “global pandemic radar” and will improve
    our viral genomic surveillance, including by working together to
    strengthen and expand the WHO Global Influenza Surveillance and
    Response System (GISRS).

**<u>Infrastructure</u>**

Building on the G7’s announcement of Build Back Better World (B3W)—an
infrastructure partnership focused on digital connectivity, climate,
health and health security, and gender equality infrastructure—the Quad
will rally expertise, capacity, and influence to strengthen ongoing
infrastructure initiatives in the region and identify new opportunities
to meet the needs there. The Quad will:

-   **Launch the Quad Infrastructure Coordination Group**: Building on
    existing leadership from Quad partners on high-standards
    infrastructure, a senior Quad infrastructure coordination group will
    meet regularly to share assessments of regional infrastructure needs
    and coordinate respective approaches to deliver transparent,
    high-standards infrastructure. The group will also coordinate
    technical assistance and capacity-building efforts, including with
    regional partners, to ensure our efforts are mutually reinforcing
    and complementary in meeting the significant infrastructure demand
    in the Indo-Pacific.

<!-- -->

-   **Lead on High-Standards Infrastructure**: Quad partners are leaders
    in building quality infrastructure in the Indo-Pacific region. Our
    complementary approaches leverage both public and private resources
    to achieve maximum impact.  Since 2015, Quad partners
    have provided more than $48 billion in official finance for
    infrastructure in the region. This represents thousands of projects,
    including capacity-building, across more than 30 countries in
    support of rural development, health infrastructure, water supply
    and sanitation, renewable power generation (e.g., wind, solar, and
    hydro), telecommunications, road transportation, and more. Our
    infrastructure partnership will amplify these contributions and
    further catalyze private-sector investment in the region.  

**<u>Climate</u>**

Quad countries share serious concern with the August Intergovernmental
Panel on Climate Change’s report findings on the latest climate science,
which has significant implications for climate action. To address the
climate crisis with the urgency it demands, Quad countries will focus
their efforts on the themes of climate ambition, including working on
2030 targets for national emissions and renewable energy, clean-energy
innovation and deployment, as well as adaptation, resilience, and
preparedness. Quad countries commit to pursue enhanced actions in the
2020s to meet anticipated energy demand and decarbonize at pace and
scale to keep our climate goals within reach in the Indo-Pacific.
Additional efforts include working together on methane abatement in the
natural-gas sector and on establishing responsible and resilient
clean-energy supply chains. The Quad will:

-   **Form a Green-Shipping Network**: Quad countries represent major
    maritime shipping hubs with some of the largest ports in the world.
    As a result, Quad countries are uniquely situated to deploy
    green-port infrastructure and clean-bunkering fuels at scale. Quad
    partners will organize their work by launching a Quad Shipping
    Taskforce and will invite leading ports, including Los Angeles,
    Mumbai Port Trust, Sydney (Botany), and Yokohama, to form a network
    dedicated to greening and decarbonizing the shipping value chain.
    The Quad Shipping Task Force will organize its work around several
    lines of efforts and aims to establish two to three Quad
    low-emission or zero-emission shipping corridors by 2030.

<!-- -->

-   **Establish a Clean-Hydrogen Partnership:** The Quad will announce a
    clean-hydrogen partnership to strengthen and reduce costs across all
    elements of the clean-hydrogen value chain, leveraging existing
    bilateral and multilateral hydrogen initiatives in other fora. This
    includes technology development and efficiently scaling up the
    production of clean hydrogen (hydrogen produced from renewable
    energy, fossil fuels with carbon capture and sequestration, and
    nuclear for those who choose to deploy it), identification and
    development of delivery infrastructure to safely and efficiently
    transport, store, and distribute clean hydrogen for end-use
    applications, and stimulating market demand to accelerate trade in
    clean hydrogen in the Indo-Pacific region.

<!-- -->

-   **Enhance Climate Adaptation, Resilience, and Preparedness**: Quad
    countries commit to increasing the Indo-Pacific region’s resilience
    to climate change by improving critical climate information-sharing
    and disaster-resilient infrastructure. The Quad countries will
    convene a Climate & Information Services Task Force and build a new
    technical facility through the Coalition for Disaster Resilient
    Infrastructure that will provide technical assistance in small
    island developing states. 

**<u>People-to-People Exchange and Education</u>**  
  
The students of today will be the leaders, innovators, and pioneers of
tomorrow. To build ties among the next generation of scientists and
technologists, Quad partners are proud to announce the Quad Fellowship:
a first-of-its-kind scholarship program, operated and administered by a
philanthropic initiative and in consultation with a non-governmental
task force comprised of leaders from each Quad country. This program
will bring together exceptional American, Japanese, Australian, and
Indian masters and doctoral students in science, technology,
engineering, and mathematics to study in the United States. This new
fellowship will develop a network of science and technology experts
committed to advancing innovation and collaboration in the private,
public, and academic sectors, in their own nations and among Quad
countries. The program will build a foundational understanding among
Quad Scholars of one another’s societies and cultures through
cohort-wide trips to each Quad country and robust programming with each
country’s top scientists, technologists, and politicians. The Quad will:

-   **Launch the Quad Fellowship**: The Fellowship will sponsor 100
    students per year—25 from each Quad country—to pursue masters and
    doctoral degrees at leading STEM graduate universities in the United
    States. It will serve as one of the world’s leading graduate
    fellowships; but uniquely, the Quad Fellowship will focus on STEM
    and bring together the top minds of Australia, India, Japan, and the
    United States. [Schmidt Futures](https://schmidtfutures.com/), a
    philanthropic initiative, will operate and administer the fellowship
    program in consultation with a non-governmental taskforce, comprised
    of academic, foreign policy, and private sector leaders from each
    Quad country. Founding sponsors of the fellowship program include
    Accenture, Blackstone, Boeing, Google, Mastercard, and Western
    Digital, and the program welcomes additional sponsors interested in
    supporting the Fellowship.

**<u>Critical and Emerging Technologies</u>**

Quad leaders are committed to working together to foster an open,
accessible, and secure technology ecosystem. Since establishing a new
critical and emerging technologies working group in March, we have
organized our work around four efforts: technical standards, 5G
diversification and deployment, horizon-scanning, and technology supply
chains. Today, the Quad leaders launch a statement of principles on
technology, along with new efforts that together will advance critical
and emerging technologies shaped by our shared democratic values and
respect for universal human rights. The Quad will:

-   **Publish a Quad Statement of Principles**: After months of
    collaboration, the Quad will launch a statement of principles on
    technology design, development, governance, and use that we hope
    will guide not only the region but the world towards responsible,
    open, high-standards innovation.

<!-- -->

-   **Establish Technical Standards Contact Groups:** The Quad will
    establish contact groups on Advanced Communications and Artificial
    Intelligence focusing on standards-development activities as well as
    foundational pre-standardization research.

<!-- -->

-   **Launch a Semiconductor Supply Chain Initiative:** Quad partners
    will launch a joint initiative to map capacity, identify
    vulnerabilities, and bolster supply-chain security for
    semiconductors and their vital components. This initiative will help
    ensure Quad partners support a diverse and competitive market that
    produces the secure critical technologies essential for digital
    economies globally.

<!-- -->

-   **Support 5G Deployment and Diversification**: To support the
    critical role of Quad governments in fostering and promoting a
    diverse, resilient, and secure telecommunications ecosystem, the
    Quad has launched a Track 1.5 industry dialogue on Open RAN
    deployment and adoption, coordinated by the Open RAN Policy
    Coalition. Quad partners will jointly facilitate enabling
    environments for 5G diversification, including with efforts related
    to testing and test facilities.

<!-- -->

-   **Monitor Biotechnology Scanning**: The Quad will monitor trends in
    critical and emerging technologies, starting with advanced
    biotechnologies, including synthetic biology, genome sequencing, and
    biomanufacturing. In the process, we will identify related
    opportunities for cooperation.

**<u>Cybersecurity</u>**

Building on longstanding collaboration among our four countries on
cybersecurity, the Quad will launch new efforts to bolster
critical-infrastructure resilience against cyber threats by bringing
together the expertise of our nations to drive domestic and
international best practices. The Quad will:

-   **Launch a Quad Senior Cyber Group:** Leader-level experts will meet
    regularly to advance work between government and industry on driving
    continuous improvements in areas including adoption and
    implementation of shared cyber standards; development of secure
    software; building workforce and talent; and promoting the
    scalability and cybersecurity of secure and trustworthy digital
    infrastructure. ****

**<u>Space</u>**

Quad countries are among the world’s scientific leaders, including in
space. Today, the Quad will begin space cooperation for the first time
with a new working group. In particular, our partnership will exchange
satellite data, focused on monitoring and adapting to climate change,
disaster preparedness, and responding to challenges in shared domains.
The Quad will:

-   **Share Satellite Data to Protect the Earth and its Waters**: Our
    four countries will start discussions to exchange Earth observation
    satellite data and analysis on climate-change risks and the
    sustainable use of oceans and marine resources. Sharing this data
    will help Quad countries to better adapt to climate change and to
    build capacity in other Indo-Pacific states that are at grave
    climate risk, in coordination with the Quad Climate Working group.

<!-- -->

-   **Enable Capacity-Building for Sustainable Development**: The Quad
    countries will also enable capacity-building in space-related
    domains in other Indo-Pacific countries to manage risks and
    challenges. The Quad countries will work together to support,
    strengthen, and enhance space applications and technologies of
    mutual interest.

<!-- -->

-   **Consult on Norms and Guidelines**: We will also consult on norms,
    guidelines, principles, and rules for ensuring the long-term
    sustainability of the outer space environment.

\###
