---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-09-15'
modified_time: 2021-09-20 11:22:56-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/09/15/president-biden-appoints-members-to-national-cancer-advisory-board/
published_time: 2021-09-15 18:45:00-04:00
title: "President\_Biden Appoints Members to National Cancer Advisory\_Board"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Biden announced the appointment of seven
distinguished clinicians and researchers to the National Cancer Advisory
Board, which plays an important role in guiding the Director of the
National Cancer Institute in setting the course for the national cancer
research program. President Biden is committed to ending cancer as we
know it – including by making sure his Administration is investing in
research and development that will help advance breakthroughs to
prevent, detect, and treat diseases like cancer. The National Cancer
Advisory Board will compliment the Administration’s efforts to build on
the spirit and learnings of the Cancer Moonshot, which President Biden
led in the Obama-Biden Administration.  
  
**John Carpten, Chair**  
Dr. John D. Carpten currently serves as Professor and Chair for the
Department of Translational Genomics and is the Royce and Mary Trotter
Chair for Cancer Research, Keck School of Medicine, University of
Southern California (USC), Los Angeles, CA. He also serves as Associate
Director of Basic Sciences for the USC Norris Comprehensive Cancer
Center. Dr. Carpten has been honored with numerous awards. He was named
a Science Trailblazer by Spectrum Magazine in 2006, and was awarded
Susan G. Komen Distinguished Lectureship on the Science of Cancer Health
Disparities in 2014 for his untiring work in ensuring that all people
are equally represented in science and innovative healthcare. Dr.
Carpten was also awarded the 2018 AACR MICR Jane Cooke Wright
Lectureship for his outstanding research in cancer disparities and his
efforts in developing the careers of minority scientists. He also
currently serves as a member of the National Cancer Institute Board of
Scientific Counselors, a member of the Scientific Advisory Committee for
Stand Up To Cancer, a member of the Board of Directors for Tower Cancer
Research Foundation, and as a member of the Scientific Advisory Board
for Break Through Cancer Foundation.   
  
**Nilofer S. Azad, Member**  
Dr. Azad is a Professor of Oncology at the Sidney Kimmel Comprehensive
Cancer Center (SKCCC) at Johns Hopkins, where she serves as Co-Director
of the Developmental Therapeutics Clinical Research Program and the
Cancer Genetic and Epigenetic Core Research Program. After completing
her fellowship in Medical Oncology at the National Cancer Institute, she
joined the SKCCC faculty and has led multiple national and international
clinical trials of novel drugs for cancer patients. She is a member of
both the Epigenetics and Colon Cancer Stand Up 2 Cancer Dream Teams,
serving as a Principal on the latter, and has held multiple leadership
positions in national and international organizations.  
  
**Luis Alberto Diaz, Jr., Member**  
Dr. Luis Alberto Diaz, Jr. is the Head of the Division of Solid Tumor
Oncology and the Grayer Family Chair at the Memorial Sloan Kettering
Cancer Center (MSK).  He is a renowned investigator for his work on
novel clinical applications of cancer genetics.  He helped pioneer the
application of circulating tumor DNA as a cancer diagnostic and led the
discovery and development of immune checkpoint blockade for cancer
patients with mismatch repair deficient tumors.  This work has helped
thousands of the patients worldwide.  
  
**Christopher R. Friese, Member**  
Dr. Christopher Ryan Friese is the Elizabeth Tone Hosmer Professor of
Nursing at the School of Nursing, Professor of Health Management and
Policy at the School of Public Health, and Associate Director for Cancer
Control and Population Sciences at the Rogel Cancer Center, all at the
University of Michigan, where he has served since 2008. He serves as the
inaugural director of the Center for Improving Patient and Population
Health. From 2005-2008, Dr. Friese was a postdoctoral fellow in cancer
control at the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute and the Harvard School of
Public Health. Dr. Friese holds advanced certification as an oncology
nurse and has maintained an active clinical practice since 1997, working
in some of the nation’s leading cancer centers, including the Rogel
Cancer Center, the Abramson Cancer Center at the University of
Pennsylvania and the Sidney Kimmel Comprehensive Cancer Center at Johns
Hopkins. He is a Fellow of the American Academy of Nursing and is an
elected member of the National Academy of Medicine. Dr. Friese received
a B.S.N. and a Ph.D. from the University of Pennsylvania.  
  
**Amy B. Heimberger, Member**  
Dr. Amy B. Heimberger, MD, FAANS, is the Jean Malnati Miller Professor
of Neurological Surgery, Vice-Chair for Research in the Department of
Neurological Surgery at Northwestern University and Scientific Director
of The Malnati Brain Tumor Institute at the Robert H. Lurie
Comprehensive Cancer Center. Her research program focuses on immune
therapeutic strategies for patients with Central Nervous System (CNS)
malignancies and she studies tumor-mediated mechanisms of immune
suppression. She has been intricately involved in a wide variety of
bench-to-bedside immune therapeutics, including those that were
developed in her laboratory and arising from her own patents. She has
expertise in the IND process and has been the PI of multiple clinical
trials including the advocation for window-of-opportunity designs to
evaluate the CNS tumor microenvironment.  
  
**Ashani Weeraratna, Member**  
Born in Sri Lanka and raised in Lesotho in Africa, Dr. Weeraratna first
came to the United States in 1988 to study biology at St. Mary’s College
of Maryland. She earned a Ph.D. in Molecular and Cellular Oncology at
the Department of Pharmacology of George Washington University Medical
Center. Weeraratna has also undertaken a global analysis of how the aged
microenvironment promotes metastasis, using a unique resource of normal
skin fibroblasts from healthy donors of differing ages, proteomics
analysis, and animal models, and the clinical implications of these data
may also result in a change in clinical practice, as they are finding
age-related differences in responses to both targeted and immunotherapy.
She is the E.V. McCollum Professor and Chair, Department of Biochemistry
and Molecular Biology, Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health,
President of the Society for Melanoma Research, and a fierce champion of
and a mentor for junior faculty, people of color and women in science,
technology, engineering, and math (STEM).  
  
**Karen Winkfield, Member**  
Karen Winkfield, MD, PhD is an Ingram Professor of Cancer Research and
Professor of Radiation Oncology at Vanderbilt University Medical Center
(VUMC). She is an implementation scientist focused on leveraging her
expertise in community engagement to improve health equity. Dr.
Winkfield currently co-leads the Inclusive Participation Workgroup of
the NIH CEAL teams against COVID19 disparities and in 2020 was named
Executive Director of the Meharry-Vanderbilt Alliance, a strategic
partnership between Meharry Medical College, VUMC, and community
partners focused on eliminating health disparities.

\###
