---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-09-18'
modified_time: 2021-09-17 20:43:29-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/09/18/joint-us-eu-press-release-on-the-global-methane-pledge/
published_time: 2021-09-18 08:00:00-04:00
title: "Joint US-EU Press Release on the Global Methane\_Pledge"
---
 
The United States and European Union announced today the Global Methane
Pledge, an initiative to reduce global methane emissions to be launched
at the UN Climate Change Conference (COP 26) in November in Glasgow.
 President Biden and European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen
urged countries at the U.S.-led Major Economies Forum on Energy and
Climate to join the Pledge and welcomed those that have already signaled
their support.    
  
Methane is a potent greenhouse gas and, according to the latest report
of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, accounts for about
half of the 1.0 degree Celsius net rise in global average temperature
since the pre-industrial era. Rapidly reducing methane emissions is
complementary to action on carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases,
and is regarded as the single most effective strategy to reduce global
warming in the near term and keep the goal of limiting warming to 1.5
degrees Celsius within reach.    
  
Countries joining the Global Methane Pledge commit to a collective goal
of reducing global methane emissions by at least 30 percent from 2020
levels by 2030 and moving towards using best available inventory
methodologies to quantify methane emissions, with a particular focus on
high emission sources. Delivering on the Pledge would reduce warming by
at least 0.2 degrees Celsius by 2050. Countries have widely varying
methane emissions profiles and reduction potential, but all can
contribute to achieving the collective global goal through additional
domestic methane reduction and international cooperative actions. Major
sources of methane emissions include oil and gas, coal, agriculture, and
landfills. These sectors have different starting points and varying
potential for short-term methane abatement with the greatest potential
for targeted mitigation by 2030 in the energy sector.    
  
Methane abatement delivers additional important benefits, including
improved public health and agricultural productivity.  According to the
Global Methane Assessment from the Climate and Clean Air Coalition
(CCAC) and the United Nations Environmental Programme (UNEP), achieving
the 2030 goal can prevent over 200,000 premature deaths, hundreds of
thousands of asthma-related emergency room visits, and over 20 million
tons of crop losses a year by 2030 by reducing ground-level ozone
pollution caused in part by methane.    
  
The European Union and eight countries have already indicated their
support for the Global Methane Pledge. These countries include six of
the top 15 methane emitters globally and together account for over
one-fifth of global methane emissions and nearly half of the global
economy.

The European Union has been taking steps to reduce its methane emissions
for almost three decades. The European Commission strategy adopted in
1996 helped reduce methane emissions from landfilling by almost a half.
 Under the European Green Deal, and to support the European Union’s
commitment to climate neutrality by 2050, the European Union adopted in
October 2020 a strategy to reduce methane emissions in all key sectors
covering energy, agriculture and waste. The reduction of methane
emissions in the current decade is an important part of the European
Union’s ambition for reductions in greenhouse-gas emissions by at least
55% by 2030. This year, the European Commission will propose legislation
to measure, report and verify methane emission, put limits on venting
and flaring, and impose requirements to detect leaks, and repair them.
 The European Commission is also working to accelerate the uptake of
mitigation technologies through the wider deployment of ‘carbon farming’
in European Union Member States and through their Common Agricultural
Policy Strategic Plans, and to promote biomethane production from
agricultural waste and residues. Finally, the European Commission is
supporting UNEP in establishing an independent International Methane
Emissions Observatory (IMEO) to address the global data gap and
transparency in this area, including through a financial contribution.
IMEO will play an important role in creating a sound scientific basis
for methane emissions calculations and delivering the Global Methane
Pledge in this regard.  
  
The United States is pursuing significant methane reductions on multiple
fronts. In response to an Executive Order that President Biden issued on
the first day of his presidency, the Environmental Protection Agency
(EPA) is promulgating new regulations to curtail methane emissions from
the oil and gas industry. In parallel, the EPA has taken steps to
implement stronger pollution standards for landfills, and the Department
of Transportation’s Pipeline and Hazardous Materials and Safety
Administration is continuing to take steps that will reduce methane
leakage from pipelines and related facilities. At the President’s urging
and in partnership with U.S. farmers and ranchers, the U.S. Department
of Agriculture is working to significantly expand the voluntary adoption
of climate-smart agriculture practices that will reduce methane
emissions from key agriculture sources by incentivizing the deployment
of improved manure management systems, anaerobic digesters, new
livestock feeds, composting, and other practices. The U.S. Congress is
considering supplemental funding that would support many of these
efforts. Among the proposals before the Congress, for example, is a
major initiative to plug and remediate orphaned and abandoned oil, gas,
and coal wells and mines, which would significantly reduce methane
emissions.  In addition, the United States continues to support
collaborative international methane mitigation efforts, especially
through its leadership of the Global Methane Initiative and CCAC.

The European Union and eight countries have already indicated their
support for the Global Methane Pledge: 

-   Argentina
-   European Union 
-   Ghana
-   Indonesia
-   Iraq
-   Italy
-   Mexico
-   United Kingdom
-   United States

The United States, the European Union, and other early supporters will
continue to enlist additional countries to join the Global Methane
Pledge pending its formal launch at COP 26.

\###
