---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-09-15'
modified_time: 2021-09-14 22:16:06-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/09/15/statement-by-president-joseph-r-biden-jr-on-the-international-day-of-democracy/
published_time: 2021-09-15 06:00:00-04:00
title: "Statement by President Joseph R. Biden, Jr. on the International Day of\_\
  Democracy"
---
 
This International Day of Democracy, we reaffirm a basic truth: that
democracy—government of the people, by the people, and for the people—is
humanity’s most enduring means to advance peace, prosperity, and
security. It is how we best safeguard the universal human rights,
fundamental freedoms, and dignity that belong to every person. And in a
moment when democracy is increasingly challenged by those who seek to
govern through force and repression, it is incumbent on democracies to
prove that we are able to deliver for the needs of our people as we
strive toward a more equitable, inclusive, and sustainable world.

Defending America’s democratic values at home and around the world is
essential to renewing our national strength and advancing our interests.
But democracy can only function when all people are fully included,
their rights protected, their voices heard, and their votes counted. As
we continue the work of perfecting our union, we must openly and
honestly grapple with our history of systemic inequity and injustice and
the way it still holds back so many in our society. And we must harness
the power of our democracy to invest in the American people and our
American future, so that we can build equity and opportunity for all.

No democracy is perfect, and no democracy is ever final. Every gain
made, every barrier broken, is the result of determined, unceasing work.
This is a defining question of our time: Can democracies come together
to deliver real results for our people in a rapidly changing world? Will
the democratic alliances and institutions that shaped so much of the
last century prove their capacity against modern-day threats and
adversaries? I believe the answer is yes. That is why, on December 9–10,
2021, I am proud to be hosting a virtual Summit for Democracy, to set an
affirmative agenda for democratic renewal around the world. Together
with our partners, the United States will continue the vital work of
strengthening democratic institutions, defending civil society and
independent media, promoting free and fair elections, protecting human
rights, and insisting on accountability for those who commit abuses and
foster corruption.

On this International Day of Democracy, we recommit to doing the hard
work that is necessary to ensure that democracies continue to lead the
world with our values and shape a future that is built on respect for
the human rights of all people.

\###
