---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-09-03'
modified_time: 2021-09-03 09:07:53-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/09/03/a-proclamation-on-labor-day-2021/
published_time: 2021-09-03 09:07:52-04:00
title: "A Proclamation on Labor Day,\_2021"
---
 
My father taught me from a young age that a job is about much more than
a paycheck.  It is about dignity, respect, and your place in the
community.  It is about being able to look your children in the eye and
assure them that things are going to be okay.  When Americans go to work
each day, they are not just making a living — they are pursuing a
life with hope for the future.  In doing so, they build, drive, care
for, and grow our Nation.

     Hard-working Americans are the backbone of our country.  As I have
often said, the middle class built America — and unions built the middle
class.  Everything that supports a sustainable middle-class life was
made possible by unions, and on Labor Day we honor all those workers —
and their enduring movement — that keep our economy moving and make
our Nation strong.

     I believe that every worker deserves not only a fair wage and
benefits — but freedom from discrimination, a safe and healthy
workplace, and the respect that comes with a secure retirement as well.
 That is why my Administration always stands proudly with workers.  It
is why, in the American Rescue Plan, we gave working people a break —
helping workers weather the pandemic, giving middle-class families
raising children a historic tax cut, and upholding the promise of a
dignified retirement by protecting the hard-earned pensions of millions
of American workers and retirees.  It is also why I am committed to
ensuring that all workers have a free and fair opportunity to organize a
union and bargain collectively with their employers.  This has been a
guiding principle of our Nation since union organizing was explicitly
encouraged by the National Labor Relations Act in 1935.  But for far too
long, that principle has been attacked and neglected.

     American workers should make their own decisions –- free from
coercion and intimidation — about organizing with their co-workers to
have a stronger voice in their workplaces, their communities, and their
government.  That is why I strongly support the Protecting the Right to
Organize Act and the Public Service Freedom to Negotiate Act.  It is
also why I created the Task Force on Worker Organizing and Empowerment,
and asked Vice President Kamala Harris and Secretary of Labor Martin
Walsh to serve as its chair and vice chair.

     After more than a year in which essential workers made
extraordinary sacrifices and carried our Nation on their backs, this
Labor Day we see more clearly than ever that we must build an economy
that responds to the needs and aspirations of working people — an
economy that deals everyone in and brings everyone along.  The pandemic
has also exacerbated and revealed for all to see the places where our
Nation has fallen short of its promise to deliver equal opportunity to
workers of color and their communities.  To help address that
long-standing challenge, my Administration is pursuing a comprehensive
approach to advancing equity, as illustrated in the Executive Order I
signed on my first day in office entitled Advancing Racial Equity and
Support for Underserved Communities.

     Despite the tremendous progress we have made to advance labor
protections and strengthen the voice of workers in the workplace, there
is still much more we need to do.  As in every generation since Labor
Day was first celebrated in the late 19th century, there are still those
who resist Americans’ efforts to build and sustain worker power — the
engine of our economic growth, the key to our long-term success, and the
best defense against corporate abuses of power in workplaces, our
economy, and our democracy.  Over the years, the Labor Movement has won
many battles:  establishing the 40-hour work week, integrating
workplaces, eliminating child labor, securing health and safety
protections for workers, and countless other victories.  Workers and
their unions prevailed time and time again — but the work continues.  We
are going to keep fighting to restore power to working families and
protect the rights of hard-working Americans and unions.  That includes
seizing the golden opportunity ahead of us to make the largest
investment in nearly a century in American infrastructure, American
workers, and good union jobs through the Bipartisan Infrastructure
Investment and Jobs Act.

     On this Labor Day, we honor the pioneers who stood up for the
dignity of working people — leaders like César Chávez, the Reverend Dr.
Martin Luther King, Jr., A. Phillip Randolph, John L. Lewis, Samuel
Gompers, Frances Perkins, and many more.  Let us also remember the
tireless voices for working families that we have recently lost,
including my friend Richard Trumka.  We must recommit ourselves to
advancing the historic progress these trailblazers made as we work to
deliver a decent life with security, respect, and dignity for all.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
September 6, 2021, as Labor Day.  I call upon all public officials and
people of the United States to observe this day with appropriate
programs, ceremonies, and activities that honor the energy and
innovation of working Americans.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this

third day of September, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-one,
and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred
and forty-sixth.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
