---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-09-16'
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/09/16/readout-of-the-presidents-conversation-with-speaker-pelosi-and-leader-schumer/
published_time: 2021-09-16 19:36:34-04:00
title: "Readout of the President\u2019s Conversation with Speaker Pelosi and Leader\_\
  Schumer"
---
 
This afternoon, the President, Speaker Pelosi, and Leader Schumer had a
positive discussion by phone about the progress they are each achieving
when it comes to advancing the Build Back Better agenda. The three
discussed their ongoing coordination and outreach around making the case
for building an economy that delivers for the middle class, and those
seeking to get there, and not just those at the top by passing an
historic tax cut for middle-class families and small businesses while
cutting the costs of prescription drugs, care for children and older
Americans, education, housing, and healthcare, while tackling the
climate crisis.  
  
They also reaffirmed that, as we act at this crucial moment to ensure
working families are dealt back into our economy, it is only fair that
we pay for these tax cuts and investments by repealing the Trump tax
giveaways to the wealthiest Americans and big corporations, who often
pay little to nothing in taxes. The three are in regular touch and
engaging daily on bringing *Build Back Better* to the finish line.    
  
They also discussed plans for moving forward to ensure that the full
faith and credit of the United States is not in doubt, and to pass a
continuing resolution to fund government operations. These are
bipartisan responsibilities, especially given that a substantial debt
was run up during the previous administration in pursuit of COVID relief
and other measures, that received bipartisan support. Any suggestion by
Republicans that they will shirk their responsibility is indefensible.

\###
