---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-09-24'
modified_time: 2021-09-24 12:36:52-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/09/24/president-biden-appoints-commissioners-of-u-s-arctic-research-commission/
published_time: 2021-09-24 12:15:00-04:00
title: President Biden Appoints Commissioners of U.S. Arctic Research Commission
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Biden announced six commissioners to the
U.S. Arctic Research Commission (USARC):

-   Michael Sfraga, Chair
-   Elizabeth Ann Cravalho
-   David Michael Kennedy
-   Mark D. Myers
-   Jackie A. Richter-Menge
-   Deborah Vo

The United States depends upon the USARC Commissioners to provide
insightful guidance and rational, unbiased assessments of actions to
maintain our position as an Arctic nation guided by science. The
President’s appointments reflect his commitment to ensuring that USARC’s
focus on scientific research goals and objectives for the Arctic are
derived from a broad range of expertise and perspectives. One-third of
the appointed commissioners are Indigenous, half are women, and
two-thirds are residents of Alaska. The legislation that established the
USARC specifies there shall be four Commissioners with academic or
research experience, two who bring industry perspectives, and one
Indigenous representative. 

**<span style="text-decoration: underline">Michael Sfraga,
Chair</span>**  
Dr. Michael Sfraga is the founding director of the Polar Institute and
serves as the director of the Global Risk and Resilience Program at the
Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars in Washington, DC. An
Alaskan and a geographer by training, his work focuses on the changing
geography of the Arctic and Antarctic landscapes, Arctic policy, and the
impacts and implications of a changing climate on political, social,
economic, environmental, and security regimes in the Arctic.  
  
Dr. Sfraga served as distinguished co-lead scholar for the U.S.
Department of State’s inaugural Fulbright Arctic Initiative from
2015-2017, a complementary program to the U.S. Chairmanship of the
Arctic Council; he held the same position from 2017-2019. He served as
chair of the 2020 Committee of Visitors Review of the Section for Arctic
Science, Office of Polar Programs, National Science Foundation, and
currently serves on the Scientific Advisory Council of the Finnish
Institute for International Affairs. Dr. Sfraga previously served in
several academic, administrative, and executive positions at the
University of Alaska including vice chancellor, associate vice
president, faculty member, department chair, and associate dean. He
earned the first PhD in geography and northern studies from the
University of Alaska Fairbanks.  
  
**<span style="text-decoration: underline">Elizabeth Ann
Cravalho</span>**  
Elizabeth “Liz” Qaulluq Cravalho is vice president of lands for NANA
Regional Corporation, an Alaska Native Corporation owned by the Iñupiaq
people of Northwest Alaska. She is responsible for providing strategic
leadership and management for programs that focus on the environmental
protection and enhancement of NANA lands for subsistence use by
shareholders and local communities. Ms. Cravalho previously worked in
external affairs, representing and advancing NANA’s interests in various
areas of policy, including Arctic opportunities, Indigenous
representation, and responsible resource development.   
  
In addition to her time at NANA, Ms.  Cravalho served on the Alaska
Arctic Policy Commission for two years, during which she provided
recommendations to the Alaska Legislature on Arctic policy matters.  She
is also a former board member and Chair of the Alaska Humanities Forum,
where she supported building social bridges across Alaska’s diverse
geography, cultures and communities. She holds a Master of Science in
organization development from American University and a bachelor’s
degree in history from Colorado College.  
  
**<span style="text-decoration: underline">David Michael
Kennedy</span>**  
David Kennedy has served as the Chair of the US Arctic Research
Commission since March 2021. Mr. Kennedy has over 50 years of experience
and leadership in science, research, environmental management, and
development of legislation and national initiatives. His experience in
the Arctic is broad: after six years as a U.S. Air Force pilot based in
Alaska, Mr. Kennedy worked at the University of Alaska’s Geophysical
Institute in Fairbanks as the Research Facilities Director, and later
the Director of the Spilled Oil Research Team focusing on Arctic
pollution issues. This led to a 30-year career at the National
Oceanographic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), culminating as the
Senior Policy Advisor for the Arctic region where he addressed policy
goals, objectives, and programs until 2020.  
  
His most recent work, prior to his initial retirement from NOAA in
January 2014, was in the role of Deputy Under Secretary for Operations
at NOAA where he led the agency on drafting and implementing the
National Strategy for the Arctic Region and the development of the
Integrated Arctic Management Report. Coming out of retirement in May
2014, Mr. Kennedy returned to NOAA in the role of Senior Policy Adviser
for the Arctic Region in NOAA. In this role he addressed NOAA-wide
Arctic policy goals, objectives, and program issues. Mr. Kennedy is a
recognized national expert in the field of emergency pollution response;
contingency planning; innovative technology development; matrix and
collaborative program management; and a suite of coastal issues focused
on development, climate change, energy, and coastal resiliency.  
  
**<span style="text-decoration: underline">Mark D. Myers</span>**  
Dr. Mark Myers has been engaged in Arctic research, resource management
and policy for nearly four decades.   He is the principal of Anchorage
based Myenergies and is engaged, through Deloitte and the U.S.
Department of State, in overseas capacity building in government
resource ministries in the Arctic, the Balkans, and Eastern Europe. 
Previously, he served in senior leadership positions with the State of
Alaska, University of Alaska, and the U.S. Department of Interior. 
These positions included Director of the U.S. Geological Survey, Alaska
Commissioner of Natural Resources, Vice Chancellor for Research at the
University of Alaska Fairbanks, Alaska State Geologist and State
Director of Oil and Gas.  Dr. Myers spent 26 years in the Air National
Guard and Air Force Reserve serving as a pilot and intelligence
officer.   He holds BS, MS, and PhD degrees in geology with
specialization in clastic sedimentology and the interpretation of
paleoenvironments and depositional systems.  
  
Dr. Myers has served on many advisory committees for the Federal and
State of Alaska governments including the State of Alaska Committee on
Research, the National Petroleum Council, the Methane Hydrate Advisory
Committee, the steering committee for the U.S. Global Change Research
Program and as a principal member of US Interagency Arctic Research
Policy Committee.  He has also been involved with the Arctic Council,
serving as a member of the U.S. Delegation for the 2015 Arctic Council
Senior Arctic Officials Meeting and as member of the U.S. delegation to
the Sustainable Development Working Group and the Scientific Cooperation
Task Force.   
  
**<span style="text-decoration: underline">Jackie A.
Richter-Menge</span>**  
Dr. Jackie Richter-Menge began her arctic research career in 1981, when
she joined the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers Cold Regions Research and
Engineering Laboratory (CRREL) in Hanover, NH. Dr. Richter-Menge worked
at CRREL for 34 years, gaining first-hand arctic experience by leading
or participating in more than 20 field programs. She continues to work
as a research affiliate with University of Alaska Fairbanks. Dr.
Richter-Menge’s research seeks to understand the impact of the warming
climate on the Arctic environment with an emphasis on the sea ice cover.
Her work enables the improvement of short-term forecasts to support
day-to-day activities and operations, and long-term projections to plan
for future climate-related changes. Jackie particularly enjoys
educational outreach. She has devoted part of her career to teaching
students and the general public about the polar environment and the
especially pronounced effects of global warming on the Arctic region.  
  
Dr. Richter-Menge was awarded an Honorary Doctor of Science from the
University of Alaska Fairbanks in 2016 in recognition of her research
accomplishments. She received the Army Achievement Medal for Civilian
Service in 1994, 2012 and 2017 and the Bronze Order of the de Fleury
Medal in 2017.  
  
From 2005-2020, Jackie served as lead editor for the web-based Arctic
Report Card, issued annually with support from the NOAA Climate Program
Office. She served as co-chair for the National Science Foundation
Arctic Research Support and Logistics report, “Increasing Arctic
Accessibility Over the Next Twenty Years,” and the National Academy of
Sciences report, “Seasonal-to-Decadal Predictions of Arctic Sea Ice:
Challenges and Strategies.” She also chairs the Science Steering
Committee for the U.S. Navy Submarine Arctic Science Program, supporting
a unique partnership between the military and civilian research
community in the collection of environmental data.  
  
**<span style="text-decoration: underline">Deborah Vo</span>**  
Deborah Vo joined Rasmuson Foundation in January 2021 as a program
officer on the Program Team, the Foundation’s grantmaking team. She is a
lifelong Alaskan whose expertise extends from tribal governance to
health care to community development. She most recently worked as
special assistant for rural affairs to U.S. Sen. Lisa Murkowski. During
her nearly seven years in Murkowski’s office, Ms. Vo represented the
Senator at gatherings, advised her on rural issues, and accompanied her
on rural travel. She holds a Bachelors’ degree in Business from Elms
College and a Master’s of Business Administration from Alaska Pacific
University.  
  
Ms. Vo was born and raised in St. Mary’s on the Lower Yukon River, the
youngest of 10 siblings. She started her career as her hometown’s first
woman city manager. She also served as a tribal administrator, a health
planner facilitating tribal management of statewide Alaska Native health
services, and executive director of the Alaska Inter-Tribal Council, a
former statewide advocacy group for Alaska’s 229 federally recognized
tribes. Ms. Vo also worked for two companies in the Community
Development Quota program that channels investments from fisheries into
jobs, education and other benefits in 65 Western Alaska communities. She
managed rural energy planning for the Alaska Energy Authority.

\###
