---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-09-24'
modified_time: 2021-09-26 12:58:00-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/09/24/global-covid-19-summit-ending-the-pandemic-and-building-back-better/
published_time: 2021-09-24 15:20:00-04:00
title: "Global COVID-\u206019 Summit: Ending the Pandemic and Building Back\_Better"
---
 
On September 22, 2021, President Biden convened a virtual Global
COVID-19 Summit focused on ending the pandemic and building better
health security to prevent and prepare for future biological threats.

The President called on the world to collectively end the COVID-19
pandemic as soon as possible, with every country, partner, and
organization doing its part, aligning around shared goals and targets,
and holding each other to account. At the same time, all countries need
the capacity to prevent, detect, and respond to biological threats,
including future pandemics.  The Summit introduced ambitious targets in
three critical areas for ending this pandemic and preventing and
preparing for the next: **Vaccinate the World**; **Save Lives Now**; and
**Build Back Better**.

President Biden hosted the virtual *Global COVID Summit: Ending the
Pandemic and Building Back Better*, which included participation by
representatives from more than **100 governments** **and other
partners** and more than **100 leaders from international organizations,
the private sector, the philanthropic sector, civil society, academia,
and other stakeholders**. These are listed below.

The COVID-19 pandemic has already claimed over 4.5 million lives and
continues to ravage communities and economies around the world. 
President Biden called on Summit participants to not only do *more,* but
to do *enough* to end the pandemic and build back better.

President Biden was also joined at the Summit by Vice President Kamala
Harris, Secretary of State Antony Blinken, U.S. Ambassador to the United
Nations Linda Thomas-Greenfield, U.S. Agency for International
Development Administrator Samantha Power, Department of Health and Human
Services Director of the Office of Global Affairs Loyce Pace, and State
Department Coordinator for the Global COVID-19 Response and Health
Security Gayle Smith. The full list of participants is available below.

Throughout the Summit, leaders of countries and organizations
underscored the importance of coalescing around shared targets to align
commitments with outcomes, as all parties worked together to: Vaccinate
the World, Save Lives Now, and Build Back Better Global Health Security
over the months ahead. Reaching these targets will require leadership,
ambition, boldness, collaboration, transparency, and new commitments.

In advance of and during the Summit, many countries and stakeholders
announced their intention to donate vaccines and financial support to
critical vaccine readiness activities to ensure shots get into arms
around the world.   Leaders broadly aligned around the World Health
Organization (WHO) target of vaccinating at least 70 percent of the
global population in every country by UNGA 2022 and expressed shared
urgency to do more, to act now, to enhance accountability, and to
monitor progress.  To advance this effort, President Biden called for
another Heads of State-level Summit in the first quarter of 2022, and
Secretary Blinken committed to convene Foreign Ministers in 2021. 
Countries made new commitments to share doses and/or double or triple
previous pledges for vaccines, delivery, oxygen and testing support, and
health security.

Participants from around the world and across sectors, listed below,
brought commitments to the Summit – further details will be available
over the coming days.  While the event was not a pledging conference,
participants’ combined commitments exceeded 850 million additional
COVID-19 vaccine doses and major new commitments for vaccine readiness,
oxygen, testing, health systems, and health security financing.

A list of new commitments announced by the United States at or around
the Summit can be found in this [Fact
Sheet](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/09/22/fact-sheet-president-bidens-global-covid-19-summit-ending-the-pandemic-and-building-back-better/).

A link to the common targets released by the United States during the
Summit for tracking and accountability can be found
[here](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/09/22/fact-sheet-targets-for-global-covid-19-summit/).

**\###**

**Session 1.      Calling the World to Account and Vaccinating the
World**

President Biden chaired the opening session of the Summit, which was
focused on the need for all countries, organizations, and stakeholders
to do more to make COVID-19 vaccines available to all people,
everywhere.  He was joined by U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations
Linda Thomas-Greenfield.  Participants echoed President Biden’s call to
align around common targets, more urgently track progress, and support
one another in fulfilling commitments.  World leaders embraced the World
Health Organization goal of fully vaccinating at least 70 percent of the
population in every country and income category with quality, safe, and
effective vaccines by UNGA 2022, and leaders called for more urgent and
equitable distribution of vaccine doses.

**President Biden announced bold new commitments from the United States
to supply an additional 500 million doses of Pfizer vaccine that will
all be shipped by this time next year, bringing the U.S. total
commitment of donated vaccines to over 1.1 billion**.

He also announced that the United States is stepping up efforts to get
shots into arms and boost global manufacturing.  He encouraged countries
to join the United States in upholding a set of principles to ensure we
can fulfill our collective global commitments for equitable global
distribution of safe and effective WHO Emergency Use Listed-authorized
COVID-19 vaccines.  Those principles include committing to donate,
rather than sell, doses to low- and lower-middle income countries with
no political strings attached; to support COVAX as the main mechanism
for sharing WHO-authorized vaccines; to fight vaccine disinformation; to
exercise transparency; to build public trust; and to work toward common
goals and targets to measure progress and to hold ourselves and each
accountable.  The President acknowledged efforts through the Quad
partnership to help produce at least 1 billion vaccine doses in India to
boost the global vaccine supply by the end of 2022, as well as U.S.
financing to help strengthen manufacturing in South Africa and produce
more than 500 million J&J doses in Africa for Africa by next year.

President Biden also emphasized the vital logistical challenge of
getting those vaccines into the arms of people, and he called on all
participants to significantly step up investments in this area.**  He
announced a commitment of an additional $370 million to support global
vaccine readiness and delivery, and** **he committed more than $380
million in assistance for Gavi, The Vaccine Alliance, to provide
political risk insurance to facilitate shipment of vaccines to nine
countries across three continents**.  In addition, he called on
countries, vaccine manufacturers, and other partners to expand global
and regional vaccine manufacturing capacity and enhance transparency to
make vaccine production and distribution more predictable and
coordinated.  He emphasized the United States is working with partner
nations and manufacturer to increase their capability to produce and
make safe and highly effective vaccines in their own countries.

**The President also underscored the importance of saving lives now, and
noted the United States is providing nearly $1.4 billion to reduce
COVID-19 deaths and mitigate transmission through bulk oxygen support,
expanded testing, strengthening healthcare systems and more.**

Finally, President Biden emphasized U.S. support for the establishment
of a global health security financing mechanism to prepare for the next
pandemic, which Vice President Harris detailed later in the Summit.  He
closed the meeting by calling on leaders to set targets that require us
to aim high, follow through on our commitments, and hold each other
accountable to end the pandemic and advance health security for all.

**Finally, President Biden** called for a whole of society response,
with an ask for the private sector, country governments, philanthropies,
and civil society to take up the U.S. call to action to solve core
challenges toward ending the pandemic and building back better –
including making vaccinations available to everyone, everywhere; solving
the oxygen crisis; financing health security, and more. Representatives
from businesses, foundations, and civil society joined global leaders at
the Summit. Some of those leaders announced coalitions to combine funds,
expertise, and capacity to help realize specific challenges within each
of the goals, for example addressing the global oxygen crisis, closing
the testing gap, and ensuring vaccines are delivered and administered.

**United Nations Secretary-General António Guterres** called for a
global vaccination plan to at least double vaccine production and ensure
2.3 billion doses are equitably distributed through COVAX to reach 40
percent of people in all countries by the end of this year, and 70
percent in the first half of 2022 as WHO recommends. He framed global
vaccination not as philanthropy but as self-interest for all parties,
emphasizing the need for low and lower-middle income countries (LMICs)
to have the resources and technology to manufacture their own vaccines.
He also called for better resourced and stronger global health security
architecture. The United Nations will continue to support vaccine
rollout in countries and communities that are hardest to reach.

**World Health Organization Director-General Dr. Tedros
Adhanom-Ghebreyesus** emphasized the importance ofmultilateralism in
addressing the disparity in vaccine access between high- and low-income
countries. He praised the new U.S. vaccine commitment and called on
countries to work with companies to swap places with other countries in
vaccine queues, for countries to fulfill dose share pledges immediately,
and for sharing the intellectual property necessary to facilitate
manufacturing around the world. He observed that we owe it to those who
lost their lives to build better governance, financing, systems, and
tools to ensure global health security. He called on leaders to support
the vaccination of at least 40 percent of the population of every
country by the end of this year and 70 percent by mid-2022.  He also
called on those who control existing vaccine supplies to ensure that 2
billion doses are provided rapidly to LMICs in order to begin meeting
these targets, as the Secretary General highlighted.

**Republic of South Africa’s President Matamela Cyril Ramaphosa**
highlighted the risks of not reaching the vaccination targets set out in
the Summit, and discussed how the pandemic exacerbates the global
vaccine gap and the ways it undermines global health security. He also
affirmed the importance of enabling countries to do their own vaccine
manufacturing and procurement, and called on WTO member states to
approve the TRIPS waiver proposal from South Africa, India, and other
co-sponsors. He shared the African Union’s impactful work in hosting the
first mRNA tech transfer on the African continent, then called for a
sustainable plan to support LMICs through technology and finance to meet
vaccine targets. He also supported the establishment of a global health
security financial intermediary fund for pandemic preparedness, a Global
Health Threats Council, and Secretary-General Guterres’ proposal for a
global vaccination plan.

**European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen** described the
pandemic as one of the most pressing societal challenges we have ever
faced. To help address this challenge, she announced a new European
Union partnership with the United States to help vaccinate the world
with a joint objective of a 70 percent global vaccination rate by UNGA
2022.  The EU-U.S. global vaccination partnership seeks to expand supply
and improve delivery while managing constraints to supply chains.  This
partnership will seek to boost vaccine production in LMICs and
coordinate investments to build regional manufacturing. The EU is
investing more than €1 billion with partners in Africa and the
pharmaceutical sector to bring mRNA technology to the continent
beginning with hubs in South Africa, and Senegal, and Rwanda.  She
reaffirmed the EU’s commitment to share more than 500 million doses by
the middle of next year, and the  EU commitment that every second dose
of vaccine produced in Europe is shipped abroad (to date, 800 million
doses).  President von der Leyen also committed that the EU will work
with the United States and within the G20 to establish a global health
security FIF to help build a healthy and secure future.

**Republic of Indonesia President Joko Widodo** called for the
strengthening of theglobal health architecture and for a new mechanism
to mobilize resources. He articulated the need for LMICs to be part of
the solution, by enhancing capacity to manufacture of vaccines,
medicines, and supplies. He appealed for an end to vaccine nationalism,
and said Indonesia as G20 chair next year will focus on strengthening
the global health security architecture and preparing for future
challenges.  

**World Trade Organization Director-General Dr. Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala**
noted the urgency of preventing more people from dying in poor countries
due to lack of access to lifesaving vaccines and other medical
countermeasures.  She emphasized the risk of the pandemic to economic
recovery, if slow vaccination progress allows the emergence of even more
dangerous variants, saying, “Either we converge downwards by allowing
the virus to drag all of us back down, or we converge upwards by
vaccinating the world.”  She noted the centrality of trade in this
effort, and she provided the example of the Pfizer- BioNTech and Moderna
vaccines requiring inputs from nineteen countries.  She reiterated the
importance of the WTO’s work to reduce export restrictions, address
supply bottlenecks, and smooth regulatory obstacles.  She called on
industry to donate doses and swap contracts so that COVAX and less
advantaged countries can move up in the queue and receive supplies for
distribution.  She urged leaders to find pragmatic compromises on
intellectual property rules for COVID-19 vaccines, therapeutics, and
diagnostics, and she underscored the need for cooperative action to
ensure a stable, predictable and fair multilateral trading system.

**Canada’s Prime Minister Justin Trudeau** reiterated Canada’s
commitment to being a trusted partner, and emphasized the target of
equitably vaccinating 70 percent of the world by next September and both
to protect the world’s population and ensure economic recovery.  He
called for a focus on vaccine readiness and delivery, and to increase
the production and supply of shots. He outlined Canada’s contributions
of more than $2.5 billion, including investing to share tens of millions
of doses with the rest of the world and support the ACT Accelerator and
COVAX.  He referenced Canada’s interest in developing domestic vaccine
production capacity, which would help Canada to help the world.  He
expressed support for working through the WTO to resolve intellectual
property issues and also called for strengthened global health security
infrastructure over the long term by investing in shared health
institutions and strengthening global cooperation.

**Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance Chief Executive Officer Dr. Seth Berkley**
outlined COVAX’s leadership of the most complex, global vaccine
deployment in history, which has – to date — shipped more than 300
million doses to 142 economies.  He also said by the end of the year,
COVAX seeks to deliver enough doses to protect about 40 percent of the
adult population in the 92 lower income countries.  800 million doses
have already been committed through COVAX, with 119 million received and
delivered. He called leaders’ attention to serious obstacles and
unacceptable inequalities in the global distribution of COVID-19
vaccines, and he thanked President Biden for the new U.S. commitment to
donate of 500 million additional doses of Pfizer vaccine, as well as
embraced the ambitious summit goal of vaccinating the world and
accelerating vaccination in lower income countries.  He urged leaders to
provide more doses, remove export restrictions, leverage innovative
financing and contingency funding to support surge manufacturing
capacity, give up their place in production queues to COVAX where
possible, and for vaccine manufacturers to commit to greater
transparency on orders and delivery timelines, and asked them to waive
requirements for indemnification for the humanitarian buffer. 

**President Biden** and **U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations Linda
Thomas-Greenfield** closed the session by thanking participants and
reiterating the goal of ending the pandemic, which will require
ambitious, coordinated global action.  **President Biden noted we should
set targets that require us to aim high, follow through on our
commitments, and hold each other accountable in order to end this
pandemic for everyone, everywhere. ** He concluded by noting this won’t
be our last meeting. 

**Session I.**      **Video Interventions**

-   *King Abdullah II bin Al-Hussein, Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan
    (video)*
-   *Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Republic of India (video)*
-   *Chancellor Angela Merkel, Federal Republic of Germany (video)*
-   *Bill Gates,  Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation (video)*

**Session 2.     Saving Lives Now**

**USAID Administrator Samantha Power** chaired the session, which was
focused on ensuring equal access to the testing, therapeutics, and
personal protective equipment that help prevent, diagnose, and treat
COVID-19.  She pointed out that even as the world focuses on the goal of
achieving 70 percent vaccination, we must – at the same time – come
together to ensure countries have the PPE to keep health workers safe,
supply oxygen to treat people with COVID, and close the testing gap. 
**She announced an intention to commit $50 million to increase access to
oxygen in countries around the world, and that USAID would work to build
a multi-sectoral coalition to coordinate global investment in oxygen
access**.

**Rockefeller Foundation President Dr. Rajiv Shah** moderated the
session.  In his framing remarks, he reinforced the importance of the
Save Lives Now agenda to helping communities and economies reopen safely
amidst the pandemic.  He highlighted the Rockefeller Foundation’s
investment of $1 billion for pandemic response, recovery, and
prevention, and announced a group of 18 diagnostic companies that are
convening with the help of the Foundation to commit to expanding
COVID-19 testing around the world.

**Vietnam’s President Nguyễn Xuân Phúc** noted the toll the pandemic has
taken on ASEAN members and expressed support for the goals set out by
President Biden, including the creation of a global health security fund
and increased vaccine production in developing countries. He emphasized
the importance of early detection and public health measures, as well as
treatment and large-scale vaccination, in responding to and ending the
pandemic.  President Phúc noted the need to improve global cooperation
and take a systemic approach, including transforming health systems and
industries that produce pharmaceuticals and supplies, particularly in
developing countries. He noted that Vietnam donated $500,000 to COVAX
and will continue to contribute, and that Vietnam and fellow ASEAN
countries have used $10.5 million from a joint COVID-19 Response Fund to
purchase vaccines.

**Director of the Pan American Health Organization (PAHO) Dr. Carissa
Etienne** emphasized that COVID-19 has particularly highlighted
inequities in the Americas, and explained the path to recovery will only
be through an equitable approach, with a focus on resilient,
high-quality health systems for all.  She discussed the challenges faced
by people living in poverty in following public health measures, and the
particular burdens on those in the informal economy, indigenous
communities, Afro descendent populations and migrants. Dr. Etienne spoke
about PAHO’s delivery of 33 million COVID tests and more than $14
million worth of PPE to countries, and announced that, along with WHO,
PAHO had identified two countries to initiate a mRNA vaccine
manufacturing hub in the Americas.

**Global Fund to Fight AIDS, TB, and Malaria Executive Director Peter
Sands** endorsed the Save Lives Now targets, noting that while vaccines
are the most potent weapon against COVID-19, ending the pandemic will
require stepped-up support to LMICS for testing, treatment, and PPE, as
well as critical infection prevention and control.  He noted that the
Global Fund, which is the largest provider of grants to LMICS for
non-vaccine COVID response, has already approved more than $3.6 billion
to over 100 countries, including $478 million for oxygen equipment and
supplies, $815 million for diagnostics, and $745 million for PPE. 
However, at a time when we must scale up these responses, Sands said
that current funding will be exhausted by the end of the month, and
urged increased investment in this critical response mechanism.

**Skoll Foundation CEO Don Gips** discussed the role of philanthropy in
taking risks, supporting civil society, testing out solutions that
government can adopt, and connecting civil society and government– all
important components of an all-society response to COVID-19.  He
announced that Skoll Foundation founder Jeff Skoll has prioritized
ending the pandemic and will build on the Foundation’s previous $100
million commitment with an additional $100 million to support Summit
objectives, with a focus on saving lives now – particularly oxygen – and
building strong health and preparedness systems for the future as a
global public good. Part of their investment will support Build Health
International, which will increase medical oxygen supplies in Africa. 
Mr. Gips emphasized the importance of alignment and coordination around
a global plan to end the pandemic, saying that the success of global
COVID-19 response will be an indication of our ability to tackle other
complex, interconnected global problems.

**Mastercard Foundation President and CEO Reeta Roy** emphasized that
achieving global health security requires bold and simultaneous action
on all fronts.  She also highlighted that we are all interconnected, and
that there is no global health security without regional health
security.  She noted that African leaders have mobilized a collective
response to the pandemic, and that the next step is to manufacture
vaccines on the continent. Ms. Roy focused on African public health
institutions, and expressed support for the Africa CDC’s efforts to
achieve sustainable public health, detailing the Foundation’s $1.3
billion partnership with Africa CDC to purchase vaccines for 50 million
people; equipping health care workers, encouraging vaccine acceptance,
and increasing genomic sequencing; developing the workforce to
manufacture vaccines in Africa; and strengthening the Africa CDC.  She
appealed to funders to support existing public health institutions.

**Amref Health Africa CEO Dr. Githinji Gitahi** reminded attendees of
the way COVID-19 affects individual people, including those lacking
oxygen treatment and health workers who lack PPE.  He pointed out that
the toll of COVID-19 is much larger than what has been officially
counted, due to the number of people in underserved areas dying at home
without treatment. He noted that saving lives now requires making
connections between the global mechanisms with resources and people in
affected communities and includes strengthening health systems to
respond at the local level, with a focus on community ownership and
accountability. He emphasized the importance of grant funding rather
than loans and stressed the need to invest quickly in local systems and
existing mechanisms.

**Moderator Dr. Shah** asked each panelist to comment briefly on the
single most important thing needed to ensure we save lives now,
equitably.  **Dr. Etienne** replied with an emphasis on adequate tools
to predict, prevent, and protect against COVID, as well as expanding
regional vaccine production.  **Mr. Sands** advised to “act now; act
big.”  **Mr. Gips** advocated for a coordinated global plan with real
political commitment.  **Ms. Roy** advocated for including everyone at
the table to ensure an equitable response, including those hardest hit:
“We act in our self-interest when we act together.” **Mr.D Gitahi**
advised that rich countries take a step back from the vaccine queue to
allow COVAX to access more, and that we strengthen existing mechanisms
before building new ones.

**Administrator Power** closed the session by noting that we have the
ability to ramp up testing, improve availability of PPE, and develop
sufficient oxygen capacity to treat those in need.  She advised that
today’s Summit should be the start of a more coordinated effort to save
lives that would be lost without our support.****

**Session II.    Video Interventions**

-   *Prime Minister Suga Yoshihide Japan (video)*
-   *Prime Minister Jacinda Ardern, New Zealand (video)*
-   *Tom Hart, ONE Campaign (video)*
-   *Prime Minister Stefan Löfven, Sweden (video)*
-   *Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina, Bangladesh (video)*

**Session 3.     Building Back Better Global Health Security**

**Vice President Kamala Harris** chaired the session, which was focused
on building back better global health security to mitigate future
biological threats and pandemics.  She pointed out that nations need
greater capacity now, and the world as a whole must be ready before, not
after, the next pandemic.  Vice President Harris issued a clear call to
action to establish a global health security financial intermediary fund
(FIF) to bring together new resources for pandemic preparedness, with an
initial goal of reaching $10 billion in seed funding for country and
corporations.  **She announced that the United States is prepared to
contribute at least $250 million to help seed the FIF. Those funds will
combat this pandemic while helping prevent the next, with an additional
$850 million requested from the U.S. Congress.  She also called for
greater political leadership and accountability, calling for the
establishment of a Global Health Threats Council to monitor progress and
sound the alarm to prevent future pandemics. **

**Loyce Pace, U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Office of
Global Affairs Director**, moderated the panel with an emphasis on
urgency and equity of the global response.

**Prime Minister Solberg of Norway** reiterated Vice President Harris’
perspective that we were not sufficiently prepared, and that we must
transform ad-hoc solutions for the future.  She also called for
predictable health security financing, a future health security fund,
and burden-sharing as an approach to funding for it.  She stressed the
importance of assistance beyond official development assistance,
emphasized health security as a global public good, and stressed the
need to strengthen WHO financing in parallel.  She also strongly
supported achieving global early warning networks to detect and respond
to outbreaks early, research and development on vaccines, tests and
treatment, with accessible technologies to all and regional production
capacity, with universal equitable access.  She emphasized that Norway
stands ready to do its part.

**Prime Minister Gaston Alphonso Browne, Antigua and Barbuda, Chair of
the Conference of the Heads of Government of the Caribbean Community
(CARICOM)** stated that CARICOM governments are committed to the 70%
global vaccination target by September 2022, including in their own
governments.  He discussed his resolve to strengthen the Caribbean
Public Health Agency (CARPHA) and called for international partnership. 
In discussing the goal of building back better, Prime Minister Browne
reiterated that recovering from economic effects will be protracted
because economic progress has been reversed.  He discussed the
importance of global public goods and the need to build health
infrastructure, and stressed that none of us are safe until all of us
are safe.

**Senior Minister Tharman Shanmugaratnam, Republic of Singapore and
Co-chair of the G20 High Level Independent Panel** **on Financing the
Global Commons for Pandemic Preparedness and Response** focused on the
need for substantially more investments in pandemic preparedness.  He
spoke of collective investments in areas such as global networks of
surveillance and early warning, health security and public health
capacities at national and regional level, and vaccines and critical
medical supplies. He called for urgent establishment of a new
multilateral Fund of $10 billion per year, less than 0.02 percent of
most national GDPs, which could catalyze public, private, and
philanthropic sources, besides domestic investments within nations.  He
also stressed the importance of an inclusive G20-Plus Board for
governance, comprising health and finance ministers, and the leaders of
the WHO and the other key multilateral institutions.  He ended by
noting, *“It will be both morally indefensible and financially myopic to
defer these investments or wait for the next pandemic to overwhelm us.”*

**Ellen Johnson Sirleaf, former President of Liberia, Nobel Peace Prize
recipient, and Co-Chair of the Independent Panel for Pandemic
Preparedness and Response (IPPPR)** called on the UN General Assembly to
hold a Special Session to approve a political declaration on the reforms
required for pandemic preparedness and response, including to establish
a Global Health Threats Council led by Heads of State and Government,
representative of the world’s regions, and focused on both
accountability and political leadership.  She noted the IPPPR’s call for
an International Pandemic Financing Facility to mobilize $10 billion per
year and disbursements of up to $100 billion for biological crises, and
commended the United States’ call for a FIF with seed contribution.  She
expressed concerns about the severe inequality in vaccine availability
and access (50-80 per cent of wealthy populations, with only 5 per cent
in poorer countries), commended efforts to redistribute surplus vaccines
to the 92 low-and middle-income countries, as well as technology
transfers and voluntary licensing agreements for vaccine manufacturers.
Finally, she called for adequate financing to the WHO, support for
community health workers as a hallmark of the COVID19 response, and the
burden COVID-19 has placed on women and girls. *“It is clear that the
current international system failed to protect us all from this
catastrophic pandemic—and it is not fit to prevent another.”** ***

**Dr. John Nkengasong, Director of the Africa Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention,** called for a “reset” button” on architecture
for global health security, recognizing that this starts at the
national, then regional, then global levels.  Reflecting on urgent
needs, Dr. Nkengasong pointed to the need for scaling up the workforce
and frontline health workers – in order to be better prepared for the
next pandemic.  He discussed the need for all countries to house their
own Centers for Disease Control that can serve as an emergency operation
center, strengthen laboratory systems, and train the workforce.  With
regards to lessons learned from this pandemic, Dr. Nkengasong raised
regional manufacturing and the gap between African manufacturing and
African consumption of vaccines.  Finally he called for innovative
financing at the global and regional level, and that funding needs
predictability, sustainability, and rapid access.

**Chief Executive Officer Marcel Arsenault, PAX sapiens, One Earth
Future Foundation**, stated that COVID-19 was our “dress rehearsal” for
a far more devastating pandemic.  He reiterated that an effective plan
and implementation will require the whole of global society to join
together.  In that regard, he spoke to the role of philanthropies can
play since they operate by more flexible rules than government,
including their capacity for long term commitments.  He announced a new
$200 million commitment to help future pandemics, to partner with other
donors and global institutions to build a better global system.  Mr.
Arsenault also committed to convene other donors and experts to finance
pandemic preparedness and explore creative financing mechanisms outside
of transitional development assistance. He also applauded the call by
Vice President Harris to establish a FIF.

**Director Pace** closed the session by highlighting the importance of
global action toward “predictable, sustainable financing” allocated
equitably to the most urgent needs and rooted in regional or local
community perspectives. She emphasized the opportunity to mobilize
public and private sector funds through multisector collaboration, and
stressed the value of high-level political engagement and oversight.

**Session III.   Video Interventions**

-   *President Moon Jae-in, Republic of Korea (video)*
-   *Carolyn Reynolds, Pandemic Action Network (video)*
-   *Prime Minister Scott Morrison, Australia (video)*
-   *Dr. Roopa Dhatt, Women in Global Health (video)*
-   *Prime Minister Pedro Sánchez, Spain  (video)*
-   *Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina of Bangladesh (video)*

**Session 4.   Closing of Summit**

**Coordinator for Global COVID-19 Response and Health Security Gayle
Smith** moderated the panel and focused on creating momentum, checking
our progress, and constantly doing more.  She asked G20 President Prime
Minister Draghi to share a preview of the G20 Summit and areas in need
of additional support.

**Secretary Blinken** announced called on leaders to end the pandemic
rather than just “doing better,” and **announced his intent to**
**personally convene foreign ministers** before the end of the year to
follow up with commitments made at the Summit, as well as the G20.  He
reiterated President Biden’s call for **heads of state to reconvene on
this issue in the first quarter of 2022**.  He also called for a
multilateral leaders task force made up of experts from inside and
outside the government to transparently and rigorously evaluate progress
in the run-up to the G20 and at regular intervals thereafter. 

He stressed the target of vaccinating at least 70% of the population of
every country, in every major income category, by UNGA 2022 and called
on leaders to set ambitious targets with timelines that are openly
tracked for progress and with accountability.  He reiterated the United
States’ willingness to lead, President Biden’s commitment to supply an
additional 500 million doses of the Pfizer vaccine, and his commitment
to work with global vaccine manufacturers to expand global and regional
manufacturing for mRNA, viral vector, and protein subunit COVID-19
vaccines, as well as pledged to enhance transparency for the data on
production and projections for dose manufacturing.

He also called on leaders to accelerate efforts to get more shots into
arms, to reduce morbidity and mortality from the virus, to expand access
to oxygen, testing, and more, building on historic support for Gavi and
the Global Fund, aid to countries and communities through USAID and the
CDC, Treasury Secretary Yellen’s call to action on Special Drawing
Rights, and U.S. support for a waiver of intellectual property
protections in the WTO TRIPS Agreement for COVID-19 vaccines in service
of ending this pandemic.  Finally, he recognized community and
healthcare workers on the frontlines of the pandemic, noting that the
people are what’s critical to winning the fight against COVID-19. * “It
comes down to us.  What we do in this critical moment, in the weeks
ahead, in the months ahead.”* 

**Prime Minister Mario Draghi of the Italian Republic** addressed the
Summit and **announced a new commitment that will triple Italy’s
existing dose donation pledge by providing 30 million** **additional
doses by the end of the year.**  These are in addition to the 15 million
doses pledged for donation, largely through COVAX, during the G20 Global
Health Summit of which nearly half have been distributed to date.  He
called on leaders, as they work to end this pandemic, to also improve
preparation for future pandemics, including by expanding the production
capacity of vaccines and other medical tools worldwide – especially in
the most vulnerable countries.  He welcomed the U.S. proposal to
establish a FIF for health security and stressed that it is fully
complementary with the G20 proposal for a Global Health and Finance
Board.  He recalled the G20 Health Summit Rome Declaration and progress
achieved since that time, including more than 2.5 million fully
vaccinated worldwide. However, he stressed the grave inequalities in
vaccine availability and emphasized the ACT-Accelerator and COVAX as the
most effective ways to deliver and build capacity to administer.  He
asked countries to stand by existing pledges and make more generous ones
and gave support to the EU plan to develop regional manufacturing hubs
in Africa, and the U.S.-EU global vaccination
[partnership](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/09/22/a-u-s-eu-agenda-for-beating-the-global-pandemic-vaccinating-the-world-saving-lives-now-and-building-back-better-health-security/)
that launched this week. Finally, he committed that the G20 Summit will
build on the outcomes from today’s summit.

**Ms. Zipporah Iregi of the National Nurses Association of Kenya**
called on leaders to support healthcare workers and include them in
decision-making.  She thanked leaders for committing to these targets to
save lives, vaccinate people, and build back better.  She also provided
insight for leaders into the plight of healthcare workers serving on the
front lines of the COVID-19 pandemic.  She recounted staying home at the
beginning of the pandemic, watching peers explore other careers. She
urged leaders to support healthcare workers and help them to be prepared
for the next crisis.  She welcomed the U.S. announcement of additional
vaccine sharing.  She expressed concerns about impending shortages of
healthcare workers and called on leaders to support and recruit more
healthcare workers, including ensuring they are paid on time and
provided with personal protective equipment that is necessary to provide
care. 

**Mr. Lwazi Mlaba a COVID-19 Survivor and Global Health and Global Fund
Champion,** provided final remarks for the Summit, sharing his personal
journey with long COVID and advocating for urgency to strengthen
community assistance and support investments to expand community
healthcare workers. He noted that his survival depended on them.  He
called for Universal Health Coverage and for global solidarity and
leadership to beat the COVID-19 pandemic.  He ended by saying,
powerfully, *“We know what we need to do.  We know how we need to do
it.  The time has come to actually do it. Invest now, invest big.  Let’s
go now and do it.”*

***Summit Participants***

***More than 100 governments*** ***and other partners participated in
the President Biden’s Global COVID-19 Summit on September 22, 2021.***

Principality of Andorra; Antigua and Barbuda; Argentine Republic;
Republic of Armenia; Commonwealth of Australia; Republic of Austria;
Commonwealth of The Bahamas; Kingdom of Bahrain; People’s Republic of
Bangladesh; Barbados; Kingdom of Belgium; Belize; Kingdom of Bhutan;
Bosnia and Herzegovina; Republic of Botswana; Brunei Darussalam; Kingdom
of Cambodia; Republic of Cameroon; Canada; Republic of Chile; Republic
of Colombia; Republic of Cote d’Ivoire; Republic of Croatia; Czech
Republic; Kingdom of Denmark; Commonwealth of Dominica; Arab Republic of
Egypt; Republic of Estonia; Kingdom of Eswatini; Federal Democratic
Republic of Ethiopia; European Commission; Republic of Finland; Gabonese
Republic; Georgia; Federal Republic of Germany; Republic of Ghana;
Hellenic Republic (Greece); Grenada; Republic of Guatemala; Republic of
Guinea-Bissau; Cooperative Republic of Guyana; Republic of Haiti;
Republic of Iceland; Republic of India; Republic of Indonesia; Ireland;
State of Israel; Italian Republic; Jamaica; Japan; Hashemite Kingdom of
Jordan; Republic of Kazakhstan; Republic of Kenya; Republic of Kiribati;
Republic of Korea; Republic of Kosovo; Kyrgyz Republic; Lao People’s
Democratic Republic; Republic of Latvia; State of Libya; Republic of
Lithuania; Grand Duchy of Luxembourg; Republic of Malawi; Malaysia;
Republic of Malta; Republic of Mauritius; Federated States of
Micronesia; Republic of Moldova; Mongolia; Montenegro; Kingdom of
Morocco; Republic of Mozambique; Republic of Namibia; Nepal; Kingdom of
the Netherlands; New Zealand; Federal Republic of Nigeria; Republic of
North Macedonia; Kingdom of Norway; Sultanate of Oman; Islamic Republic
of Pakistan; Republic of Palau; Palestinian Authority; Republic of Peru;
Republic of the Philippines; Republic of Poland; Portugal; Romania;
Russian Federation; Kingdom of Saudi Arabia; Republic of Serbia;
Republic of Sierra Leone; Republic of Singapore; Federal Republic of
Somalia; Republic of South Africa; Kingdom of Spain; Sri Lanka;
Federation of Saint Kitts and Nevis; Democratic Socialist Republic of
Sri Lanka; St Vincent and Grenadines; Republic of the Sudan; Republic of
Suriname; Kingdom of Sweden; Swiss Confederation; Taiwan; Kingdom of
Thailand; Togolese Republic; Republic of Trinidad and Tobago; Republic
of Tunisia; Republic of Turkey; Ukraine; United Arab Emirates; United
Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland; United Nations General
Assembly (Republic of Maldives); Republic of Uzbekistan; Republic of
Vanuatu; Socialist Republic of Vietnam; Republic of Yemen; Republic of
Zambia; Zimbabwe

*<u>International Organizations, Non-Governmental Organizations, Private
Sector, and Philanthropies</u>*

***More than 100 International Organizations, non-governmental
organizations, private sector, and philanthropies participated in the
President Biden’s Global COVID-19 Summit on September 22, 2021.***

Abbott; Access Bio; AdvaMedDX; Africa Centres for Disease Control and
Prevention; The World Health Organization Regional Office for Africa
(AFRO); African Development Bank; African Union; Alphabet Inc.; American
Chamber of Commerce of Mexico; American Chamber of Commerce in South
Africa; American Clinical Laboratory Association; American Society of
Tropical Medicine and Hygiene; Amref Health Africa; American Public
Health Association; Asian Development Bank; Association of Public Health
Laboratories; Association of Southeast Asian Nations; Becton, Dickinson
and Company; Biotechnology Innovation Organization; Boston Consulting
Group; CARE; Caribbean Public Health Agency; The Carter Center; CDC
Foundation; Center for Supporting Community; Development Initiatives;
Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations; The Clinton Foundation;
Clinton Health Access Initiative; CORE Group; COVID Collaborative;
Danaher Corporation; Deloitte; Emory University; European Bank for
Reconstruction and Development; Friends of the Global Fight; The Bill &
Melinda Gates Foundation; Gavi, The Vaccine Alliance; Ginkgo Bioworks;
Global Citizen; Global Communities; The Global Fund; Global Poverty
Project; Global Health Council; Global Health Technologies Coalition;
Health GAP; Hologic, Inc.; International Federation of Pharmaceutical
Manufacturers & Associations; International Monetary Fund; InterAction;
International Air Transport Association; International Atomic Energy
Agency; International Civil Aviation Organization; International
Committee of the Red Cross; International Federation of Red Cross and
Red Crescent Societies; International Maritime Organization ;
International Organization for Migration; International Vaccine
Institute; IntraHealth International; Johnson & Johnson; Jubilee; LEGO
Foundation; JustActions; LumiraDx; Management Sciences for Health;
Marked by COVID; Mastercard Foundation; Matahari Global Solutions; Mayo
Clinic Laboratories; McKinsey & Company; Merck Group; MilliporeSigma;
National Nurses Association of Kenya; NETWORK for Catholic Social
Justice; Nuclear Threat Initiative; ONE Campaign; One Earth Future
Foundation; Open Society Foundations; OraSure Technologies; Oxfam
America; Pan American Health Organization; Pandefense Advisory; Pandemic
Action Network; PATH; PerkinElmer; Pfizer Inc.; Pharmaceutical Research
and Manufacturers of America; Public Citizen; Public Health Foundation
of India; QIAGEN; Roche; The Rockefeller Foundation; Sabin Vaccine
Institute; SalivaDirect at the Yale School of Public Health; Save the
Children; Schmidt Futures; Seed Global Health; The Skoll Foundation;
Sustainable Energy for All; Thermo Fisher Scientific; United States
Chamber of Commerce; United Nations Foundation; Unitaid; United Nations
Children’s Fund; United Nations Environment Programme; United Nations
High Commissioner for Refugees; United Parcel Service; The United States
Global Leadership Coalition ; World Health Organization; Women in Global
Health; World Bank Group; World Food Programme; WOTE Kenya; World Trade
Organization

\###
