---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-09-22'
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/09/22/president-biden-announces-key-nominations-2/
published_time: 2021-09-22 17:51:15-04:00
title: "President\_Biden Announces Key\_Nominations"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Joe Biden announced his intent to nominate
the following individuals to serve in key roles:

• Mary Lu Jordan, Nominee for Commissioner of the Federal Mine Safety
and Health Review Commission  
• Susan Harthill, Nominee for Commissioner of the Occupational Safety
and Health Review Commission  
• Joseph DeCarolis, Nominee for the Energy Information Administration
Administrator at the Department of Energy  
• Maria Robinson, Nominee for the Assistant Secretary in the Office of
Electricity at the Department of Energy  
• Christopher Frey, Nominee for Assistant Administrator for the Office
and Research and Development at the Environmental Protection Agency  
• Erik D. Ramanathan, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
Plenipotentiary to the Kingdom of Sweden  
• Michael M. Adler, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
Plenipotentiary to the Kingdom of Belgium  
• Calvin Smyre, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary
to the Dominican Republic

**Mary Lu Jordan, Nominee for Commissioner of the Federal Mine Safety
and Health Review Commission  
**Mary Jordan was appointed as a Commissioner on the Federal Mine Safety
and Health Review Commission in 1994 and has served in that capacity
almost continuously since then. She has served as Chair of the
Commission from 1994 to 2001, from 2009 to 2014, and from 2015 to 2017.
Her most recent term as Commissioner ended on August 30, 2020 and since
then she has served as Senior Attorney-Advisor at the Commission.

Ms. Jordan was employed as Senior Staff Attorney at the United Mine
Workers of America from 1977 to 1994. She is a graduate of Saint
Bonaventure University and Antioch Law School and is a member of the New
York and D.C. Bar.

**Susan Harthill, Nominee for Commissioner of the Occupational Safety
and Health Review Commission  
**Susan Harthill represents employers in the full range of employment
law and Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA) matters, with a
focus on counseling, compliance, litigation, and audits and
investigations. Ms. Harthill advises employers on statutory and
regulatory compliance and conducts trainings, including harassment and
discrimination training. Before joining Morgan Lewis, Ms. Harthill
served as deputy solicitor for national operations at the U.S.
Department of Labor (DOL), where she oversaw the legal activities
performed for all DOL programs in the National Office by attorneys in
all 10 program divisions.

While at DOL, Ms. Harthill worked with the national office divisions and
the solicitor of labor to provide centralized legal services for all DOL
agencies, including litigation and regulatory advice, and to coordinate
with the U.S .Department of Justice, including the solicitor general’s
office and in cases before the U.S. Supreme Court.

Prior to joining DOL in 2014, Ms. Harthill was a tenured law professor,
and was formerly special counsel in the Washington, DC, headquarters of
a large international law firm. As a law professor, she taught courses
in employment law and employment discrimination, civil procedure,
evidence, and trusts and estates.

Ms. Harthill has published law review articles on ERISA, workplace
bullying, and the Fair Labor Standards Act. She has frequently presented
her work at national and international conferences, including a
presentation on the topic of workplace bullying at the International
Labor Organization. Throughout her career Ms. Harthill has been active
in numerous pro bono matters and other service activities, including
serving as a loaned associate from her law firm to the Legal Aid Society
of Washington, DC; a two-term appointment as a commissioner on the
Jacksonville Human Rights Commission; and a volunteer board membership
for a domestic violence shelter in St. Johns County, Florida.

**Joseph DeCarolis, Nominee for the Energy Information Administration
Administrator at the Department of Energy  
**Joseph F. DeCarolis is a Professor and University Faculty Scholar in
the Department of Civil, Construction, and Environmental Engineering at
North Carolina State University. His research addresses energy issues at
the intersection of engineering, economics, and public policy. He leads
the development of next-generation energy system modeling tools that are
open source, transparent, and designed to deliver policy-relevant
insights. Dr. DeCarolis currently co-leads an ambitious open source
modeling effort involving a large multi-institutional research team. He
also leads an interdisciplinary faculty cluster at NC State focused on
sustainable energy and established a university-wide Energy
Collaborative.

Prior to joining NC State, Dr. DeCarolis was an environmental scientist
within the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s Office of Research and
Development where his research examined the air quality impacts of
future energy system development. He received his Ph.D. in Engineering
and Public Policy from Carnegie Mellon University, and a B.A. from Clark
University in Physics and Environmental Science & Policy.

**Maria Robinson, Nominee for the Assistant Secretary in the Office of
Electricity at the Department of Energy  
**Maria Duaime Robinson is serving her second term in the Massachusetts
House of Representatives where she was elected as the first
Korean-American legislator in 2018. She leads the House side of the
Clean Energy Caucus, serves as the Massachusetts state lead to the
National Caucus of Environmental Legislators where she is on the board,
and is the only state legislator on the U.S. EPA Clean Air Act Advisory
Committee. Prior to her election, she led Advanced Energy Economy’s
Wholesale Markets Program, including engagement at FERC and the regional
transmission organizations. Previously, she focused on regulatory issues
relating to energy and air, leading policy efforts in over two dozen
states across the country. Earlier in her career, she was with Navigant
Consulting in the renewable energy and energy efficiency practice,
working with the Commonwealth of Massachusetts in analyzing and
procuring contractors for statewide solar and energy efficiency projects
under the 2009 Recovery Act. She holds an S.B. in Chemical Engineering
from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and a Masters of
Jurisprudence in Energy Law from the University of Tulsa. She is
currently a lecturer at Tufts University’s School of Urban Planning and
Environmental Policy and is a lifetime Girl Scout after earning her
Silver Award.

**Christopher Frey, Nominee for Assistant Administrator for the Office
and Research and Development at the Environmental Protection Agency  
**Dr. H. Christopher Frey is the Deputy Assistant Administrator for
Science Policy in the Office of Research and Development as an appointee
of the Biden/Harris administration. At EPA, Dr. Frey is a champion of
scientific integrity and the role of science to inform decision-making.
He is leading scientific and technical research on Administration
priorities, including climate change, environmental justice, per- and
polyfluoroalkyl substances (PFAS), and lead; he is also promoting the
advancement of innovative scientific methods and approaches. Prior to
joining EPA, Dr. Frey was the Glenn E. and Phyllis J. Futrell
Distinguished University Professor at North Carolina State University,
where he served on the faculty since 1994. His research includes
measurement and modeling of human exposure to air pollution, measurement
and modeling of vehicle emissions, and applications of probabilistic and
sensitivity analysis methods to emissions estimation, risk assessment,
and technology assessment. He has extensive prior service with the EPA.
Dr. Frey was an AAAS/EPA Environmental Science and Engineering Fellow in
1992. He served as exposure modeling advisor in ORD’s National Exposure
Research Laboratory from 2006 to 2007. He was a member of the EPA FIFRA
Scientific Advisory Panel (2004 to 2006), a member of the EPA Clean Air
Scientific Advisory Committee (CASAC) (2008 to 2012), chair of CASAC
(2012 to 2015), and a member of the EPA Science Advisory Board (2012 to
2018). He was a member of the CASAC Particulate Matter Review Panel that
was dismissed in 2018; under his leadership, the panel reconvened as the
Independent Particulate Matter Review Panel.

Dr. Frey is a prominent scholar and leader in environmental science and
engineering. Dr. Frey has a B.S. in mechanical engineering from the
University of Virginia, a master of engineering in mechanical
engineering from Carnegie Mellon University, and Ph.D. in engineering
and public policy from Carnegie Mellon.

**Erik D. Ramanathan, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
Plenipotentiary to the Kingdom of Sweden  
**Erik D. Ramanathan is Chairman of the Board of Heluna Health, a
national public health non-profit serving more than 80 million Americans
with over 500 programs addressing population health and community
resilience issues including maternal and child health, nutrition,
literacy, supportive housing, infectious disease, addiction, and
front-line and supportive efforts to combat the COVID-19 pandemic. He
was previously Executive Director of the Harvard Law School Program on
the Legal Profession, following his role as Senior Vice President –
General Counsel of ImClone Systems, a public biotechnology company.
Ramanathan has also held major leadership roles on the non-profit boards
of New Politics Leadership Academy, Shady Hill School, and Immigration
Equality. Earlier in his career, he was a health care attorney with
Proskauer Rose LLP. Ramanathan earned a B.A. at Johns Hopkins University
and a J.D. cum laude from Harvard Law School. He has been an LGBTQ+
community leader for more than three decades and is the recipient of
honors including the Global Vision Award for service to the LGBTQ+ and
HIV+ immigrant and asylee communities.

**Michael M. Adler, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and
Plenipotentiary to the Kingdom of Belgium  
**Michael M. Adler is Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Adler
Group, Inc., one of South Florida’s largest real estate companies. Adler
has played a significant role in the growth and development of South
Florida as a major center for international trade. Adler Group, Inc.,
formed in 1978, offers services in real estate development,
construction, brokerage and leasing and property management. Adler has
significant mixed use multifamily development projects and commercial
real estate holdings throughout the Southeastern United States. Adler is
a civic and community leader and has held key leadership roles in many
charities and non-profit organizations. Adler served as Chairman of
Mount Sinai Medical Center where he currently sits on the Board of
Trustees, President of the Greater Miami Jewish Federation where he was
able to serve as a representative at the Conference of Presidents of
Major American Jewish Organizations and as former Vice Chairman of
Florida International University’s Board of Trustees. Adler has a
bachelor’s degree in business administration from the University of
Miami.

**Calvin Smyre, Nominee for Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary
to the Dominican Republic  
**Calvin Smyre has served for 47 years as an elected Representative in
the Georgia State Assembly and was Chairman of the Democratic Caucus
within the Assembly for over a decade and still serves as Chairman
Emeritus of the Caucus. He is the ‘Dean’ of the Georgia House of
Representatives and serves on the Appropriations, Rules, and Higher
Education Committees. Smyre is President Emeritus of the National Black
Caucus of State Legislators (NBCSL) and a member of the National
Conference of State Legislators. In the private sector, he served for
almost four decades as the executive vice president of corporate affairs
for Synovus Financial Corporation. He represented Synovus on the
Financial Services Roundtable in Washington D.C. and was also the
President of the Synovus Foundation. Smyre served on the Board of
Trustees of the Medical College of Georgia Foundation; the Morehouse
School of Medicine; the Jack D. Hughston Foundation and the Fort Valley
State University Foundation as its Chair. Smyre earned his B.S. from
Fort Valley State University, Fort Valley, Georgia. He has received over
200 local, state and national honors and awards and in 1985 and 2005 he
was selected by his peers as the National “Legislator of the Year”.

\###
