---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-09-24'
modified_time: 2021-09-27 14:36:39-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/09/24/u-s-india-joint-leaders-statement-a-partnership-for-global-good/
published_time: 2021-09-24 23:55:44-04:00
title: "U.S.-India Joint Leaders\u2019 Statement:  A Partnership for Global Good"
---
 
President Joseph R. Biden welcomed Prime Minister Narendra Modi to the
White House today for their first in-person Leaders’ engagement,
renewing their close relationship and charting a new course to advance
the partnership between the world’s largest democracies.    
  
The Leaders affirmed a clear vision that will guide the U.S.-India
relationship   forward:  building a strategic partnership  and working
together with  regional groupings, including ASEAN and Quad members, to
promote shared interests in the Indo-Pacific region and beyond;
developing a trade and investment partnership that increases prosperity
for working families in both countries; finishing the fight against the
COVID-19 pandemic and other health challenges; galvanizing global
efforts to scale up climate action;  strengthening democratic values and
institutions in support of our respective peoples; and enhancing
people-to-people ties that have made both countries stronger.   
  
President Biden and Prime Minister Modi expressed deep pride and
appreciation about their nations’ close cooperation to fight the
COVID-19 pandemic over the past year, as governments, civil society,
businesses, and diaspora communities mobilized in unprecedented ways to
share emergency relief supplies during each country’s times of need. 
Having administered hundreds of millions of doses of vaccine to protect
their own citizens at home and abroad, they reiterated their commitment
to lead the global effort to end this pandemic.  President Biden
welcomed India’s announcement that it will resume exports of safe and
effective COVID-19 vaccines including to COVAX.  The Leaders also hailed
the finalization of the overarching Memorandum of Understanding on
Health and Biomedical Sciences to bolster cooperation on key areas
affecting global health, including pandemic preparedness and biomedical
research, to reduce the risk of future pandemics.  
  
Prime Minister Modi welcomed President Biden’s initiative to convene the
Global COVID-19 Summit on Ending the Pandemic and Building Back Better
to Prepare for the Next, given our shared commitment to combat the
Covid-19 pandemic.  
  
Prime Minister Modi welcomed U.S. leadership on climate action,
including the return of the United States to the Paris Agreement.
 President Biden expressed support for Prime Minister Modi’s intention
to achieve a domestic goal of installing 450 GW of renewable power by
2030 and acknowledged the importance of mobilizing finance
for investments in renewables, storage, and grid infrastructure that
will guarantee clean, reliable power for millions of Indian households. 
Through the two main tracks of the Strategic Clean Energy Partnership
(SCEP) and the Climate Action and Finance Mobilization Dialogue (CAFMD)
under the U.S.-India Climate and Clean Energy Agenda 2030 Partnership,
the United States and India will accelerate clean energy development and
deployment of critical technologies to advance a clean energy
transition.  India welcomed the United States joining the Leadership
Group for Industry Transition (LeadIT).  
  
President Biden reaffirmed the strength of the defense relationship
between the United States and India and the unwavering commitment to
India as a Major Defense Partner through close defense engagements in
information sharing, sharing of logistics and military-to-military
interactions, strengthening cooperation in advanced military
technologies, and expanding engagements in a multilateral framework
including with regional partners.  The Leaders welcomed the deepening of
advanced industrial cooperation.  In this context, they noted the recent
project to co-develop air-launched unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) under
the Defense Technology and Trade Initiative, and encouraged more such
joint efforts.  They called upon the government and private stakeholders
to use the existing ecosystems of innovation and entrepreneurship in
defense industries for co-development, co-production and expanding
mutual defense trade.  They also looked forward to the inaugural meeting
of the Industrial Security Agreement summit to facilitate high-end
defense industrial collaboration.  
  
The Leaders reaffirmed that the United States and India stand together
in a shared fight against global terrorism, will take concerted action
against all terrorist groups, including groups proscribed by the UNSCR
1267 Sanctions Committee, condemned cross-border terrorism, and called
for the perpetrators of the 26/11 Mumbai attacks to be brought to
justice. They denounced any use of terrorist proxies and emphasized the
importance of denying any logistical, financial or military support to
terrorist groups which could be used to launch or plan terror
attacks.* * They noted that the upcoming U.S.-India Counterterrorism
Joint Working Group, Designations Dialogue, and renewed U.S.-India
Homeland Security Dialogue will further strengthen counterterrorism
cooperation between India and the United States, including in the areas
of intelligence sharing and law enforcement cooperation.  They also
welcomed opportunities to develop counterterrorism technologies.  They
commended the U.S.-India Counter Narcotics Working Group and are
committed to finalizing a new Bilateral Framework which would facilitate
joint efforts to combat drug trafficking, illicit narcotics production
and precursor chemical supply chains.  
  
The Leaders resolved that the Taliban must abide by UNSC Resolution 2593
(2021), which demands that Afghan territory must never again  be used to
threaten or attack any country or to shelter or train terrorists, or to
plan or finance terrorist attacks, and underscored the importance of
combating terrorism in Afghanistan.  The Leaders called on the Taliban
to adhere to these and all other commitments, including regarding the
safe, secure, and orderly departure from Afghanistan of Afghans and all
foreign nationals and to respect the human rights of all Afghans,
including women, children, and members of minority groups.  They
emphasized the importance of efforts to provide humanitarian assistance
to Afghanistan, called on the Taliban to allow full, safe, direct and
unhindered access for the United Nations, its specialized agencies and
implementing partners, and all humanitarian actors engaged in
humanitarian relief activity, including with respect to internally
displaced persons.  Reflecting their long-term commitment to promoting
development and economic opportunity for the Afghan people, they
determined to continue to closely coordinate and to work jointly with
partners toward an inclusive and peaceful future for all Afghans.  
  
The Leaders called for an end of the use of violence, for release of all
political detainees, and for a swift return to democracy in Myanmar. 
They further called for the urgent implementation of the ASEAN Five
Point Consensus.  
  
The Leaders welcomed increased cooperation under the Quad, including in
the multilateral domain given their shared vision of a free, open and
inclusive Indo-Pacific region with respect to territorial integrity and
sovereignty, and international law.  President Biden applauded India’s
strong leadership during its UN Security Council Presidency in August
2021.  In this context, President Biden also reiterated U.S. support for
India’s permanent membership on a reformed UN Security Council and for
other countries who are important champions of multilateral cooperation
and aspire to permanent seats on the UN Security Council.   He also
reaffirmed U.S. support for India’s entry to the Nuclear Suppliers
Group.  They welcomed the extension of the Statement of Guiding
Principles on Triangular Cooperation for Global Development to leverage
the combined capacities of India and the United States to address global
development challenges around the world, particularly in the
Indo-Pacific and Africa.  In addition, they looked forward to the launch
of the U.S.-India Gandhi-King Development Foundation to advance
cooperation on health, education, and the environment.  
  
They looked forward to reconvening the India-U.S. Trade Policy Forum
before the end of 2021, to enhance the bilateral trade relationship by
addressing trade concerns, identifying specific areas for increased
engagement and developing an ambitious, shared vision for the future of
the trade relationship.  The Leaders looked forward to convening the
U.S.-India CEO Forum and the Commercial Dialogue in early 2022,
leveraging the talents of the private sector.  The Leaders noted ongoing
negotiations on an Investment Incentive Agreement that facilitates
investment in development projects and committed to an early conclusion.
 They further discussed how the United States and India will work
together to set sustainable and transparent rules of the road that will
lift economies throughout the Indo-Pacific.  They welcomed increased
collaboration through the Coalition for Disaster Resilient
Infrastructure and the upcoming Indo-Pacific Business Forum.  
  
The Leaders noted that the movement of highly skilled professionals,
students, investors and business travelers between their countries
enhances their economic and technological partnership.  The Leaders
highlighted the importance of resilient and secure supply chains between
the two countries. They welcomed the involvement of the private sector
in both countries in building stronger linkages in critical sectors such
as pharmaceuticals, biotechnology, semiconductors, and information
technology. The Leaders recognized the importance of critical and
emerging technologies in delivering economic growth and achieving
strategic priorities.  They looked forward to reviving the High
Technology Cooperation Group (HTCG) in early 2022, with the objective of
accelerating high technology commerce in key areas.  
  
The Leaders decided that the United States and India must continue and
expand their partnership in new domains and many areas of critical and
emerging technology – space, cyber, health security, semiconductors, AI,
5G, 6G and future generation telecommunications technology, and
Blockchain, that will define innovation processes, and the economic and
security landscape of the next century.  The Leaders recognized the
foundational need to address vulnerabilities and threats in cyberspace,
including to promote critical infrastructure resilience, and welcomed
the increasing partnerships among governments to counter ransomware and
other cyber-enabled crime, including efforts to combat cybercriminals
that operate from within their borders. The Leaders reiterated the
importance of sustainable capacity-building and noted that mutual
technical assistance efforts to respond to cyber threats should be
prioritized and increased, including through dialogues, joint meetings,
training and sharing of best practices.  They looked forward to the
finalization of a Space Situational Awareness Memorandum of
Understanding that will help *in sharing of data and services towards
ensuring *the long-term sustainability of outer space activities by the
end of the year.  
  
As global partners, the United States and India resolved to further
strengthen their collaboration in education, science and technology and
people-to-people engagement.  The Leaders welcomed close consultations
through the 2+2 Ministerial Dialogue of the Foreign and Defense
Ministers of India and the United States to be held later this year.  
  
The Leaders celebrated the deep and vibrant ties between the people of
both nations, which underpins the special bond between the United States
and India, and has sustained their partnership for nearly 75 years. 
They reaffirmed, and encouraged others to embrace, their shared values
of freedom, democracy, universal human rights, tolerance and pluralism,
and equal opportunities for all citizens, and committed to pursue
efforts towards sustainable development and global peace and security.  
  
Prime Minister Modi conveyed his deep appreciation for the repatriation
of antiquities to India by the United States. The Leaders committed to
strengthen their efforts to combat the theft, illicit trade and
trafficking of cultural objects.  
  
Reflecting shared values and principles, and growing strategic
convergence, President Biden and Prime Minister Modi resolved to advance
the U.S.-India Comprehensive Global Strategic Partnership, and looked
forward to what the United States and India will achieve together.

\###
