---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-09-15'
modified_time: 2021-09-15 00:52:07-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/09/15/statement-by-president-biden-on-2-8-million-americans-gaining-health-care-in-the-2021-special-enrollment-period/
published_time: 2021-09-15 08:00:00-04:00
title: "Statement by President\_Biden on 2.8 Million Americans Gaining Health Care\
  \ in the 2021 Special Enrollment\_Period"
---
 
The peace of mind that comes from having affordable, quality health
coverage should be a right—not a privilege—for every American. For the
past decade, the Affordable Care Act has allowed millions of Americans
to sleep more soundly at night, knowing that they will be covered should
the worst occur.

When I ran for President, I promised to protect and build on the
historic foundation of the Affordable Care Act. That’s why, on February
15<sup>th</sup>, my administration opened HealthCare.gov for a Special
Enrollment Period to allow all Americans—particularly those who had lost
their coverage through no fault of their own during the pandemic—to find
a quality, affordable health plan.

Six months later, I am pleased to report that 2.8 million more Americans
have gained access to reliable health coverage through HealthCare.gov
and state-based marketplaces. That’s 2.8 million families who will have
more security, more breathing room, and more money in their pocket if an
illness or accident hits home. Altogether, 12.2 million Americans are
actively enrolled in coverage under the Affordable Care Act—an all-time
high.

In addition to widening access, we are also lowering the cost of health
care for millions of families thanks to the expanded premium subsidies
included in my American Rescue Plan. Americans who purchase their
coverage through the Affordable Care Act have seen their premiums
decrease an average of $67 a month—which is more than $800 each year
that can go to groceries, child care, or other essentials. Over four in
ten Americans who gained coverage during the Special Enrollment Period
found a quality plan for $10 or less per month. Twenty states and the
District of Columbia saw premiums decrease by more than $75 a month. And
out-of-pocket spending declined dramatically, with the median deductible
for new enrollees dropping by more than 90 percent, from $750 to $50.

These numbers are encouraging, but we have more work to do to drive down
the cost of health care for all Americans. My Build Back Better Agenda
would lower prescription drug costs for millions of Americans by letting
Medicare negotiate drug prices; provide health care premium tax cuts for
nine million Americans that reduce costs an average of $600; and deliver
quality, affordable care to millions more. In fact, by closing the
Medicaid coverage gap and extending the expanded Affordable Care Act tax
credits, it’s estimated we could ensure health coverage for an
additional seven million Americans.

I urge Congress to act quickly to deliver for the American people—to
keep up the vital work of expanding access and lowering health care
costs across the board, and to continue building on the strong
foundation of the Affordable Care Act.

\###
