---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-09-16'
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/09/16/president-biden-announces-five-key-nominations-5/
published_time: 2021-09-16 16:20:56-04:00
title: "President\_Biden Announces Five Key\_Nominations"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Joe Biden announced his intent to nominate
the following five individuals to serve in key roles:

-   Nickolas Guertin, Nominee for Director of Operational Test and
    Evaluation, Department of Defense
-   John Sherman, Nominee for Chief Information Officer, Department of
    Defense
-   Margo Schlanger, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights,
    United States Department of Agriculture
-   Krista Boyd, Nominee for Inspector General, Office of Personnel
    Management
-   Robert Otto Valdez, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for Planning and
    Evaluation, Department of Health and Human Services

**<u>Nickolas Guertin, Nominee for Director of Operational Test and
Evaluation, Department of Defense</u>**

Nickolas Guertin has an extensive four-decade combined military and
civilian career in submarine operations, ship construction and
maintenance, systems engineering, and the development and testing of
weapons, sensors and combat management products. Most recently, he has
performed applied research for government and academia in
software-reliant and cyber-physical systems for the past four years at
Carnegie Mellon University’s Software Engineering Institute.

Over his career, he has been in leadership of organizational
transformation, improving competition, application of modular open
system approaches, as well as prototyping and experimentation. He has
also researched and published extensively on system design, testing and
acquisition. He received a BS in Mechanical Engineering from the
University of Washington and an MBA from Bryant University. He is a
retired Navy Reserve Engineering Duty Officer, was Defense Acquisition
Workforce Improvement Act (DAWIA) certified in Program Management and
Engineering, and is also a registered Professional Engineer
(Mechanical). He is also an Assistant Scoutmaster and Merit Badge
Counselor for two local Scouts BSA troops as well as an avid amateur
musician. He hails from Redding, CT and is a resident of McLean, VA with
his wife Maria and their 14-year-old twin children.

**<u>John Sherman, Nominee for Chief Information Officer, Department of
Defense</u>**

John Sherman has nearly 25 years of experience working in national
security technology and innovation across the Intelligence Community
(IC) and Department of Defense (DoD). He has most recently served as the
Acting DoD Chief Information Officer (CIO) and earlier as the IC CIO. 
At each assignment he led modernizations involving large-scale
government enterprises with cloud computing, cybersecurity, and
collaboration capabilities. Previous to his time as a CIO, Mr. Sherman
served as Deputy Director of CIA’s Open Source Enterprise, where he
worked on open source intelligence by leveraging new technologies and
interagency partnerships, and he also led several large offices at the
National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency dealing with analysis,
collection, and international partnerships. Additionally, Mr. Sherman
has served as a Deputy National Intelligence Officer on the National
Intelligence Council, where he coordinated strategic estimates on
military topics and stood up the IC’s support to the Committee on
Foreign Investment in the United States. Mr. Sherman began his IC career
as an imagery analyst and later served in the White House Situation
Room. 

Mr. Sherman grew up in rural Jackson County in South Texas. He is a
Distinguished Military Graduate of Texas A&M University, where he led
the 2,000-strong Corps of Cadets his senior year and received a Bachelor
of Arts degree in History. He also earned a Master’s of Public
Administration degree from the University of Houston. Following
graduation from Texas A&M, he served as an Air Defense Artillery officer
in the 24th Infantry Division. Mr. Sherman is married to Liz, who also
works in national security, and they have two grown children.

**<u>Margo Schlanger, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights,
United States Department of Agriculture</u>**

Margo Schlanger is the Wade H. and Dores M. McCree Collegiate Professor
of Law at the University of Michigan Law School.  In 2010 and 2011,
Schlanger served as the presidentially appointed Officer for Civil
Rights and Civil Liberties in the Obama-Biden Administration’s
Department of Homeland Security. She led the civil rights office’s
internal DHS oversight relating to issues such as immigration detention
conditions, racial profiling, border screening, language access, and
disability rights, and she chaired an interagency group addressing
disability access to disaster planning and response. She founded and
directs the Civil Rights Litigation Clearinghouse, a national repository
of information about large-scale civil rights cases. Schlanger has
written and testified about how federal agencies can better implement
civil rights goals, and has served as a court-appointed monitor in a
statewide federal case protecting the rights of prisoners with
disabilities. She was the principal drafter of the American Bar
Association’s influential Standards on the Treatment of Prisoners, and
author of the leading casebook on prisoners’ rights, *The Law of
Incarceration: Cases and Materials* (West Academic 2020). A graduate of
Yale College and Yale Law School, Schlanger clerked for Justice Ruth
Bader Ginsburg for Justice Ginsburg’s first two terms on the Supreme
Court of the United States.

**<u>Krista Boyd, Nominee for Inspector General, Office of Personnel
Management</u>**

Krista Boyd has worked as an attorney in Congress for over two decades
focused on issues related to oversight of government.  She currently
serves as Chief Counsel for Oversight and Policy for the House Committee
on Oversight and Reform.  Ms. Boyd’s work focuses on issues related to
government spending, transparency, and accountability.  She has led
numerous investigations focused on rooting out waste, fraud, and abuse
of government resources, including a bipartisan investigation that led a
government contractor to repay the Pentagon over $16 million. Ms. Boyd
leads Committee efforts to ensure government watchdogs such as
Inspectors General and the Government Accountability Office have
adequate authority and access to information.  She helped spearhead the
creation of the Pandemic Response Accountability Committee, the
committee of Inspectors General overseeing federal spending in response
to the coronavirus pandemic. 

Ms. Boyd has worked with Members of Congress on strengthening the
authorities of agency Inspectors General and helped negotiate enactment
of the Inspector General Empowerment Act of 2016.  Ms. Boyd has led
Committee efforts to protect whistleblowers and to improve whistleblower
laws, including the Whistleblower Protection Enhancement Act, which
strengthened protections for federal employees.  She has worked with
lawmakers on the enactment of major transparency legislation such as the
FOIA Improvement Act and the Presidential and Federal Records Act
Amendments of 2014.  Ms. Boyd began her career as Counsel for Senator
Max Cleland from Georgia.  She earned a Bachelor of Science in
Communication from Florida State University and a J.D. from Emory
University School of Law. 

**<u>Robert Otto Valdez, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for Planning
and Evaluation, Department of Health and Human Services</u>**

Dr. Valdez serves as the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation Professor
Emeritus, Family & Community Medicine and Economics at the University of
New Mexico (UNM).  He was the Founding Executive Director, RWJF Center
for Health Policy at UNM after serving as Founding Dean, Drexel
University School of Public Health.   Previously, he was Professor at
the UCLA School of Public Health. From 1993 through 1997, Dr. Valdez
served as Deputy Assistant Secretary for Health (PHS) and Director of
Interagency Health Policy (CMS) at the U.S. Department of Health & Human
Services.   He also served as a Special Senior Advisor on health care
reform to the Clinton White House.

Dr. Valdez started his career as the lead child health researcher for
the historic RAND Health Insurance Experiment.  He is internationally
recognized as an expert in health services research, the U.S. health
care system, health policy analysis, and health care financing. His
health promotion and disease prevention work with Univision
Communications Corporation, “Salud es Vida: ¡Enterate!” was recognized
with the Peabody Award. In 1998, he served as Special Senior Advisor to
the White House Initiative on Educational Excellence for Hispanic
Americans.  He previously served as the Chairman of the board of the
Public Health Institute, one of the nation’s largest non-profit public
health agencies serving communities across the state of California and
internationally. He has also served the communities of New Mexico as
Board Chair, New Mexico Community Foundation.

\###
