---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-09-29'
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/09/29/president-biden-appoints-members-to-the-american-battle-monuments-commission/
published_time: 2021-09-29 16:43:47-04:00
title: President Biden Appoints Members to the American Battle Monuments Commission
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Biden appointed 11 members to the American
Battle Monuments Commission (ABMC):

-   Lieutenant General Mark Philip Hertling, USA, (Ret.), Secretary
-   Darrell Leroy Dorgan
-   John L. Estrada
-   Florent Groberg
-   Amy Looney Heffernan
-   Matthew E. Jones
-   Raymond Duane Kemp, Sr.
-   Bud D. Pettigrew
-   Michael E. Smith
-   Gail Berry West
-   Daniel P. Woodward

Established by Congress in 1923, ABMC is a federal agency charged with
guarding America’s overseas commemorative cemeteries and memorials that
honor the service, achievements, and sacrifices of U.S. Armed Forces.
ABMC oversees 26 permanent American military cemeteries and 32 federal
memorials, monuments and markers located across 17 foreign countries and
the United States.

**<u>Mark Phillip Hertling, Secretary</u>**

Lieutenant General (retired) Mark Hertling served 38 years in the U.S.
Army as a tanker and cavalryman, commanding at every level from tank &
scout platoon leader on the East-West German border to Commander of US
Army, Europe and 7th Army. Hertling saw combat with a cavalry squadron
during Desert Storm, as an Assistant Division Commander in Baghdad, and
as the Commander of 1st Armored Division and Multinational Task Force
Iron in Northern Iraq. His military awards include Distinguished Service
Medals, Bronze Stars, the Army Commendation Medal for Valor, the Purple
Heart, and decorations from Germany, Romania, Poland, Kuwait and Saudi
Arabia.

Hertling is a 1975 graduate of the US Military Academy at West Point; he
holds master’s degrees from Indiana University and the National Defense
University, and in 2019 he earned a doctorate from the Crummer Graduate
School of Business, Rollins College. Mark and his wife Sue reside in
Florida. They have two sons and five grandsons.

**<u>Darrell Leroy Dorgan</u>**

Darrell Dorgan is a North Dakota native and an award-winning journalist
who worked as a television news director/anchor for 25 years. He
currently chairs Dakom Communications/Dorgan Films, a corporation
involved in real estate and producing television documentaries.

Dorgan is a Vietnam veteran who belongs to AMVETS, VFW, DAV, and
American Legion. He was appointed to the American Battle Monuments
Commission for eight years by President Obama and the Kennedy Center
Advisory Board by President Clinton. He has also served on the North
Dakota Historical Society Foundation Board for 25 years; he was the head
of the North Dakota Cowboy Hall of Fame and chaired the recent North
Dakota WWI Centennial Commission. He is married and has two daughters.

**<u>John L. Estrada</u>**

Ambassador John L. Estrada served as a volunteer member on the Biden
Presidential Transition Agency Review Team for the Department of
Defense. He also served as the U.S. Ambassador to Trinidad and Tobago
from 2016 to 2017, and the 15th Sergeant Major of the Marine Corps from
2003 to 2007 during his 34 years of active duty. After retiring from the
Marine Corps, he went to work for Lockheed Martin Corporation as Senior
Manager for Lockheed Martin Training Solution Incorporated. Ambassador
Estrada is a veteran of Operation Iraqi Freedom and Operation Southern
Watch. His personal awards include the Navy Distinguished Service Medal,
the Bronze Star Medal, the Meritorious Service Medal with three gold
stars, the Navy/Marine Corps Commendation Medal, the Joint Service
Achievement Medal, and Navy/Marine Corps Achievement Medal. He is a
former board member for Operation Homefront, a nonprofit organization
that provides emergency assistance for members of the military, those
wounded, and the families they leave behind. He is also a former member
of the board of governors for the USO, former member of the Defense
Advisory Committee on Women in the Services, former member of the
Executive Advisory Council for Mission Readiness, and former
Commissioner with the ABMC.

**<u>Florent Groberg</u>**

Florent “Flo” Groberg served in the United States Army from 2008 to 2017
and is a recipient of the Medal of Honor, the United States’ highest
military honor, for his extraordinary gallantry, intrepidity and heroism
while serving in combat operations in Afghanistan in 2012.

Today, Groberg leads the Microsoft Azure Global Government M360 Mission
Solution Team. He is responsible for working with governments worldwide
to identify key missions and systems that should operate on the Azure
Cloud. He holds a master’s degree in management with a specialization in
intelligence policies from the University of Maryland University College
in College Park, MD. He is married to Carsen Groberg, with whom he has a
dog named V and a cat named Ranger.

**<u>Amy Looney Heffernan</u>**

Amy Looney Heffernan is the Vice President of Travis Manion Foundation,
where she focuses on empowering veterans and families of fallen heroes.
She is dedicated to carrying on the legacy of her late husband — LT
(SEAL) Brendan Looney, who was killed in Afghanistan in 2010 and awarded
the Bronze Star with Valor – and friend Travis Manion; the two are
buried side by side in Arlington National Cemetery.

A consistent voice to the national conversation and advocacy of veterans
and families of the fallen, Looney has appeared on Fox News, CNN, CBS,
and TED-X, as well as in written publications such as the Washington
Post. She received her Bachelor’s degree in Business Management from
Johns Hopkins University and her Master’s in Public Administration from
George Washington University. Looney currently resides in the Chicago
area with her husband Joel, daughter Grace, and dog Payton.

**<u>Matthew E. Jones</u>**

Colonel Matthew Jones currently commands the 89th Airlift Wing, home of
Air Force One, where he is responsible for worldwide special air mission
airlift, logistics, and communications support for the President, Vice
President, cabinet members, combatant commanders, and other senior
military and elected leaders. A three-time combat airlift commander, Col
Jones also served in numerous Headquarters U.S. Air Force and Joint
positions including as the Special Assistant to the Director of the
Defense POW/MIA Accounting Agency.

Prior to his current assignment Col Jones was the installation Commander
at Dover AFB Delaware, home of the DoD’s largest mortuary, fulfilling
our nation’s sacred commitment of ensuring Dignity, Honor and Respect to
our fallen and Care, Service and Support to their families. Col Jones,
who is a native of Arizona, resides in Joint Base Andrews, Maryland with
his family. He is a distinguished graduate from the U.S. Air Force
Academy with a B.S. degree and has master degrees from Harvard’s Kennedy
School of Government, the Army War College, and the University of
Pittsburgh’s KATZ Graduate School of business.

**<u>Raymond Duane Kemp, Sr.</u>**

Raymond D. Kemp Sr. is a U.S. Navy veteran who culminated 33 years of
service as the Fleet Master Chief of Europe and Africa. While on active
duty, he served six presidents, completing 11 combat deployments, with
19 years of sea duty. In times of high conflict, he provided training
and mentorship for Sailors during the execution of their lethal duties.
As the Fleet Master Chief of Europe and Africa, he had oversight and
influence over 56,000 service members, civilians, contractors, and
family members.

He is the founder of Kemp Solutions LLC, a leadership development and
resilience-building company. With an ever-present heart for the warrior,
he also serves as Vice President on the board of Mystic Warrior
Foundation, which helps transitioning service members cope with the
challenges of PTSD and combat-related stress. Kemp also serves on the
Bob Feller Act of Valor Foundation and Wings Over America boards, which
provide scholarships to service members and their families.

**<u>Bud D. Pettigrew</u>**

Bud Pettigrew is the chair of the Nebraska Democratic Party. Previously,
he served in the U.S. Marine Corps before teaching history and coaching
football, wrestling and track for 20 years at various public schools. He
then spent a decade in project management working at the Minnechaduza
Foundation. Pettigrew has also worked on numerous campaigns and was
actively engaged in Veterans for Biden during the 2020 election. He
earned a bachelor’s degree from Hastings College, and has done
additional graduate work at universities in Nebraska. He and his wife
Angela have two children, Arthur and Evan.

**<u>Michael E. Smith</u>**

Michael E. Smith is a retired Navy Rear Admiral who recently co-founded
and led the American College of National Security Leaders, a national
security think tank committed to strengthening the United States’
national security initiatives by informing the debate, influencing
decision-makers, and educating the public. During his 32-year naval
career he commanded at all operational levels from the commanding
officer of the navy’s newest destroyer to command of an aircraft carrier
strike group. He served as the Special Assistant to two Chairmen of the
Joint Chiefs of Staff where his team conducted independent research and
provided unfiltered direct advice on the most strategic and pressing
national security topics. In his first flag officer assignment he was
the director of the Navy’s Strategy and Policy Division where he oversaw
a broad Pentagon, legislative, and Navy-wide portfolio, including
responsibility for integrating emerging national strategy with Navy and
Defense policy initiatives.

Smith is currently an Adjunct Research Associate for the Institute for
Defense Analysis where he leads a diverse international team
facilitating defense transformation efforts through in-country advisory
and consulting services to the most senior Indonesian military and
government officials. He also chairs the board of MVLE, a dynamic
non-profit that caters to the diverse needs of individuals with
disabilities through specialize services that foster personal and
professional growth.

**<u>Gail Berry West</u>**

Gail Berry West is a retired attorney who formerly headed both the
Washington Office of Armstrong World Industries (1995-2003) and Bell
Communications Research (1983-1995). She began her career as a corporate
attorney in the Office of the General Counsel of IBM.

She was an appointee of the Carter Administration where she held
positions of Special Assistant to the Secretary of Housing and Urban
Development and Staff Assistant to the Interdepartmental Task Force on
Women; she completed her public service as Deputy Assistant Secretary of
the Air Force in Manpower and Reserve Affairs. She is the widow of the
Honorable Togo D. West, Jr., an attorney and former Secretary of the
Army and Secretary of Veterans Affairs in the Clinton Administration.

**<u>Daniel P. Woodward</u>**

General Dan Woodward retired from the Air Force as a Brigadier General,
following more than 28 years of distinguished service. While in the Air
Force, General Woodward served in a variety of operational and staff
positions, including tours as a Wing Commander, and as a flag officer on
the Joint Staff and the Air Staff. He is a command pilot with more than
3,000 military flight hours, and is married to his college sweetheart,
retired Air Force Major General Maggie Woodward.

Following retirement from the Air Force, General Woodward served as Vice
President, Integrated Solutions, General Dynamics Information
Technology. After leaving his position with General Dynamics, he became
Executive Director of Arnold Air Society and Silver Wings, a nationwide
collegiate nonprofit that builds young military and civilian servant
leaders through the lessons found in community service, unique
professional development experiences, and education. He continues to
serve in this position.

\###
