---
tags: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-06-29'
modified_time: 2021-06-29 16:10:39-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/06/29/remarks-by-president-biden-in-a-virtual-fundraising-reception-for-the-democratic-national-party/
published_time: 2021-06-29 08:39:36-04:00
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden in a Virtual Fundraising Reception for the Democratic\
  \ National\_Committee"
---
 
Via Teleconference  
The Residence

(June 28, 2021)

6:59 P.M. EDT  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Reid, thank you.  Thank you, thank you, thank you for
hosting this event and for your generous support.  I might note that — I
was saying to you when I got to speak to you a few minutes earlier that,
you know, you haven’t even — we haven’t even sat down with each other. 
You know, anybody who contributed and raised as much funds as you did,
everybody expects to be knocking on my door for — you never asked me for
a single thing.  You’ve raised an enormous amount of money, and you
said, “The reason why we haven’t gotten together, Mr. President, is
because we didn’t want to distract you.  We want you to keep going.” 
And I’m like — I really mean it.  I hope everybody understands that
about almost all of you on this call.  And I want to thank you for your
incredible support.  
  
And, Jaime, I think that Leader Clyburn was correct: You’re the right
choice for this job.  You’ve been doing outstanding leadership.  And let
me just say that you’re part of something special.  We’re bound together
in one of the most consequential campaigns in the history of this
country.  It really was a battle for the soul of America.  
  
And I just got back, by the way, from Europe after being there for, I
guess, 13 days.  I don’t — I forget how many days.  And I met for five
days with the G7 nations.  I also — and then there were four others that
were there — India, Australia.  And I won’t go through all the detail;
it’d be too boring for you.  And then I went to a NATO meeting with all
the — all the NATO representatives there and the heads of state.  And
then I went to meet with Putin.  Actually, in between, I did the EU.  
  
And here’s the bottom line: I — I think — I know you all understood it:
the incredible damage done to us, internationally, by the last outfit
that sat in this seat.  And I have to say, sitting here tonight, I’ve
lived through what we’ve lived through.  We know just how important it
was.  It turns out it was even more important than I thought it was.  
  
Think about the last 150 days: The American Rescue Plan delivered shots
in the arms.  And, by the way, we are in a position where we’re getting
close to making sure that 70 percent of all the people in America will
have been fully vaccinated, or at least get one shot by the — by
Independence Day.  We’re way ahead.  No one thought we could ever do
that.  
  
And I’m in the process of being able to announce very shortly that we’re
going to generate — half a billion doses we’re going to give away
between — after taking care of every single American.  Half a billion
doses give away to the poorest countries in the world.  And that’s what
you do when you want to really help and influence people around the
world.  
  
And we put — and — but beyond that, they — you know, the act put shots
in arms and checks in pockets for hundreds of millions of Americans who
are on the edge.  It’s keeping food on the table, a roof over their
heads.  And maybe the thing I’m proudest of is it’s putting us back on
track to cut child poverty in half.   
  
A hundred and fifty million Americans are fully vaccinated now.  The
fastest job growth in the first four months, I’m told — not because of
me, but because of all of you — of any previous presidency.  Projected
economic growth at nearly 7 percent — the highest in four decades.  
  
And just last week, I announced a bipartisan agreement in the Senate
asking to make one of the biggest investments ever in infrastructure,
ever — rebuilding our roads and bridges; delivering high-speed Internet
to every American family, rural and as well as in urban areas;
delivering every clean water, getting rid of those lead pipes to every
American; building a more resilient power grid; installing electric
vehicle charging stations — over half a million of them.  This is the
largest investment in public transit ever and the largest investment in
rail since the creation of Amtrak 50 years ago.  It’s about creating
millions of good-paying jobs, and it’s about our economic
competitiveness.  
  
You all know better than I, because you’re all successful people, that
we’re in a race in the 21st century to — who’s going to have a strongest
economy in the 21st century.  And the rest of the world is not waiting
around.  We have more to do, and we have to move fast and move
quickly.  
  
This is a — and this agreement, this infrastructure bill that — you
know, it signals in the world that we can function, we can deliver.  We
can do significant things and show that America is back.  That’s the
message I delivered and received during the trip in Europe.  I announced
that America is going to help vaccinate the world, because that’s who we
are.  That’s what we can do.  
  
I also rallied our European allies to holding China to the same rules of
the road in a global economy in the 21st century.   

I made clear to President Putin and Russia that the relationship between
America and Russia should be stable and predictable.  We should be able
to cooperate where we have our interests, on nuclear non-proliferation
and climate change.  And where we have differences, I made it clear to
President Putin that I understand why — we have to understand what
exists, and whether it’s on cyberattacks or interference in our
<s>economy</s> \[elections\], I will respond.  I will respond.  And I
know we’ll respond to specific kinds of actions that harm U.S.
interests.  
  
The bottom line of all this at home and abroad: We’re proving that our
democracy can deliver for the people when autocrats are betting we
can’t.   
  
But we’ve got a lot more to do.  As we invest in our physical
infrastructure, we also have to invest in our human infrastructure, the
so-called Biden Family Plan bill.  We’re going to move on the American
Family Plan that will deliver childcare, paid leave, universal pre-K,
two years of community college, and so much more.  
  
And I will take the case to the American people on the need to protect
the sacred right to vote.  It’s under assault in ways that I haven’t
seen in my entire career, and that’s what got me involved in the first
place.  It’s about who gets to vote and whether the vote counts.  And we
have a system that does both with integrity and independence.  But the
Republicans want to do what no political party has ever tried to do: get
to decide if your vote counts.  It’s outrageous.  We’re going to fight
like hell to make sure that doesn’t happen.   
  
There’s so much to say on all of these subjects.  I’m sorry (inaudible)
such shorthand.   
  
But to work — the work has not been easy, and I’m going to need all of
you to help do that work.  The DNC is going to need you, because here’s
the deal: We won in 2020 as a unified party, and we need to stay unified
and keep doing the big consequential things.  
  
If we make the right decisions in the next four — (inaudible) years, in
50 years, people will look back and say this was the moment that America
won the future.  But we can’t do it without you.  And it’s not hyperbole
to suggest what I said — that America won the future.  
  
So, look, there’s so much more to say, but the bottom line is that
there’s so much at stake.  But I promise you — I promise you, I’ve heard
from almost every major world leader — I’ve heard from every major world
leader: We can do this.  So we can, in the process, be helping the rest
of the world by doing well for ourselves.  
  
May God bless America, and may God protect our troops.  And I look
forward to meeting you all in a virtual photo line, which I guess is
going to begin very shortly.  
  
7:08 P.M. EDT
