---
category: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-06-30'
modified_time: 2021-06-30 15:27:09-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/06/30/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-at-the-generation-equality-forum/
published_time: 2021-06-30 15:27:08-04:00
title: Remarks by Vice President Harris at the Generation Equality Forum
---
 
Via Teleconference  
South Court Auditorium

10:27 A.M. EDT  
  
VICE PRESIDENT HARRIS:  Greetings from the White House.  President
Macron, President López Obrador, Mis- — (applause) —   
  
PRESIDENT MACRON:  Big applause to welcome you.   
  
VICE PRESIDENT HARRIS:  (Laughs.)  Merci beaucoup.  It is — it is
wonderful to be with you.    
  
President Macron, Mr. Secretary-General, Madam Executive Director,
Shantel, and the Youth Task Force: Thank you for convening this forum.  
  
Twenty-six years ago, government and civil society leaders from around
the world came together in a forum not unlike this one.  In Beijing, in
1995, Hillary Rodham Clinton issued a clarion call to the world, and the
United States became one of 189 nations to adopt the ambitious “Platform
for Action.”  These are points of profound pride for our nation.    
  
And for me, it is an honor to be here with you now, as we recommit to
make gender equality a reality.  
  
Over the past five months, I have met many world leaders, and we have
discussed some of the most pressing issues of our time: COVID-19,
climate change, threats to security, and threats to democracy.    
  
And in these meetings, I have often made it a point to raise the
importance of equal participation of women and girls, because I believe,
as you all do, that addressing gender equity and equality is essential
to addressing every other challenge we face, which is certainly true in
light of the current threats to democracy.    
  
Around the world, democracy is in peril.  Strong men have become
stronger.  Human rights abuses have multiplied.  Corruption is
undermining progress as misinformation is undermining public confidence.
   
  
And who gets hurt when democracies fall, when democracies falter?  Who
gets hurt when democracies fail to live up to their promise?  Well,
women and girls are among those who suffer.  
  
At the G7 Summit, just weeks ago, world leaders pledged to unite against
the threat of autocracy.  World leaders pledged to unite behind the
principles of democracy.  And as we move forward, I believe that if we
want to strengthen democracy, we must fight for gender equality.    
  
Because here’s the truth: Democracy is strongest when everyone
participates, and it is weaker when people are left out.  And we’ve seen
this here in the United States.    
  
When women have access to capital to start a small business, they can
participate more fully and our democracy grows stronger.    
  
When women have access to reproductive healthcare to stay healthy, they
can participate more fully and our democracy grows stronger.    
  
When women live free from the fear of violence, they can participate
more fully and our democracy grows stronger.   
  
Throughout my career, I have worked to protect women from violence and
exploitation.  I know what happens when women are supported.  I know
what happens when women are heard.  When women are heard, whether that
is in the courtroom, in the workplace, in the halls of government, or at
the ballot box, democracy is more complete.    
  
So I know, without doubt, gender equality strengthens democracy.  And,
for our part, the United States will make a number of commitments today
to reinforce our own institutions.  And these commitments have one thing
in common: They will yield results — real, tangible results — that
improve the lives of women in the United States and women around the
world.    
  
So, in closing, I will address the young leaders who are participating
in Generation Equality: I remain hopeful and optimistic because of you.
 Our world needs your leadership.  And in that role, there are two
things I want you to remember.    
  
First, remember to use the tools of democracy, whether that is the
freedom of speech or the freedom to vote.  And if you do not yet have
those freedoms, fight for them and know we will fight alongside you.    
  
And the second thing I want you to remember is this: Listen to those
people who are not being heard.  Respect and embrace those whose
experiences are different from your own, and recognize who is not in the
room and invite them in.  And do not forget the power of your own story.
   
  
When we bring people in — when we bring in all the people — we are more
successful, our results are more impactful because democracy is
strongest, because our world is stronger when everyone participates.    
  
Thank you.  Thank you all very much.    
  
10:33 A.M. EDT
