---
tags: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-06-25'
modified_time: 2021-06-28 12:09:44-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/06/25/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-secretary-of-homeland-security-mayorkas-chairman-durbin-and-representative-escobar-in-press-conference/
published_time: 2021-06-25 12:09:00-04:00
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris, Secretary of Homeland Security Mayorkas,\
  \ Chairman Durbin, and Representative Escobar in Press\_Conference"
---
 
El Paso International Airport  
El Paso, Texas

11:50 A.M. MDT  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  This has been a great trip to El Paso.  As you all
have heard me say many times, I strongly believe that most people don’t
want to leave home.  And when they do, it is because either they are
fleeing some harm or because to stay means that they cannot provide for
the basic necessities of their family.   
  
That belief has been reinforced throughout our day today.  Whether it
was when I met with children who are unaccompanied minors, or I met with
leaders who have been on the ground in El Paso for many, many years
doing work that is directly about supporting and interacting with folks
who are immigrating to the United States and who are crossing this
border.   
  
My trip to Guatemala and Mexico was about addressing the root causes. 
The stories that I heard and the interactions that we had today
reinforce the nature of those root causes: a lack of economic
opportunity; very often violence, corruption, and food insecurity; and
basic needs not being met, including a fear of cartels and gang
violence.   
  
So, the work that we have to do is the work of addressing the cause —
the root causes.  Otherwise, we will continue to see the effect: what is
happening at the border.  It is going to require, as we have been doing,
a comprehensive approach that acknowledges each piece of this, informed
also by the recognition that the United States is a neighbor in the
Western Hemisphere, and not only do we have a reason to concern
ourselves with the root cause issues because of what we see at the
border, but also because we are — we live in that neighborhood, the
Western Hemisphere.  And like anyone living in a neighborhood, one must
understand and see the effect and the relationship between fellow
neighbors.   
  
So that’s the work we’ve done.  I want to, in particular, recognize
Secretary Mayorkas.  The time that we spent with the dedicated men and
women of CBP really has reinforced the work that Secretary Mayorkas has
done in terms of bringing technology, bringing resources, bringing
professionalism and support to the men and women who are on the ground
doing the job every day.   
  
I commend all of them for the success that they have seen thus far.  I’d
call it “progress.”  We’re not exactly where we want to be yet, but we
have seen extreme progress over these last few months because of his
dedication and his efforts.    
  
So, with that, I want to also make the point: You know, when we have
this conversation about what’s happening at the border, let’s not lose
sight of the fact that we’re talking about human beings.  Let’s not lose
sight of the fact that we’re talking about stories that, as the Bishop
shared and many of the community folks shared, involve horrendous tales
of abuse and fear and harm — not only for folks who are coming here in
their home country experiencing that, but along the path of their
migration.    
  
And so let’s recognize, with a sense of humanity, that these issues must
be addressed in a way that is informed by fact and informed by reality
and informed by perspective that actually is dedicated to addressing
problems and fixing them in the most constructive and productive way.   
  
The President and I are absolutely committed to ensuring that our
immigration system is orderly and humane.  And I do believe that we are
making progress in that regard.   
  
So, with that, I’m going to now introduce the Secretary of the
Department of the Homeland Security, Ali Mayorkas, to make a few
comments.   
  
SECRETARY MAYORKAS:  Thank you very much, Madam Vice President.  And I’m
privileged to be with you today.   
  
I recommended to the Vice President that we visit El Paso because it is
one of the busiest sectors on the border.  El Paso reflects the many
diverse elements of our mission.  It demonstrates, also, the progress
that has been made and the work that remains.    
  
In March, this sector experienced overcrowding of unaccompanied children
staying in the Border Patrol station for more than an average of 120
hours.  We saw too many children in a Border Patrol facility not
designed for them for too long.  The President and the Vice President
directed me, in the execution of my responsibilities as the Secretary of
Homeland Security, to take care of it.   
  
Today, the situation is dramatically different.  The Border Patrol
station is not overcrowded with children, and an unaccompanied child
spends an average of less than 30 hours in it.   
  
Border surges have been a challenge for years and years, and to address
the challenge successfully requires a multi-part plan.  We have a
plan.   
  
The Vice President is leading our nation’s effort to tackle the root
causes of migration — why people leave their home in the first place.   
  
I and my colleagues in the Cabinet have been directed to execute the
rest of the plan: to build safe and legal pathways for people who
qualify for humanitarian relief under the laws our Congress has passed;
to rebuild our country’s asylum system that was dismantled under the
prior administration; in an orderly and just way, to remove those whose
claims for relief do not qualify.   
  
I am immensely proud to lead the workforce — the men and women of DHS —
in executing our responsibility to secure the border and execute the
safe, orderly, and humane process, as the President and the Vice
President have directed.    
  
I am grateful to the Vice President for leading the effort to tackle the
root causes of migration, her focus on what is happening in the Northern
Triangle countries of origin.   
  
 I am hopeful that Congress will pass immigration reform to fix a system
that everyone recognizes is broken.  And I am thankful for the
Chairman’s years-long leadership and championing of this effort.  Thank
you.  
  
CHAIRMAN DURBIN:  For several years, I served in the Senate with Kamala
Harris, the senator from California.  We worked on many issues
together.  There was never a doubt in my mind, when it came to the issue
of immigration, that we were of the same mind as to what America needed
to do.   
  
When she was given an opportunity to join President Biden in leading
this country, she was also given an opportunity to use that commitment
to immigration to solve one of America’s hardest political problems. 
Her attendance today in El Paso is an indication of her caring and her
commitment to meaningful immigration reform.   
  
And I want to join her by saying that the Congress needs to do its part
when it comes to immigration reform.  It has been 35 years since we’ve
had an immigration bill.  Everybody complains about the immigration
system — and they should; it’s broken — but when it comes to dealing
with it, many of the folks in the Senate and the House don’t want to
lift a finger.  We need a bipartisan effort to come up with a
meaningful, humane, sensible, immigration policy in America.    
  
I want to salute the Congresswoman Veronica Escobar.  She and I have
discussed her vision of immigration reform.  I believe she’s moving in
the right direction, in terms of dealing not only with the challenges of
today, but what our nation looks like tomorrow.   
  
It was an honor to be back here in El Paso with the Vice President.  I
thank her for the invitation today.  And I’d like for the Congresswoman,
at this point, to say a few words.   
  
REPRESENTATIVE ESCOBAR:  Thank you, Chairman.  And thank you so much,
Madam Vice President, for being here.  It’s been an incredible honor and
privilege, and I’m so grateful that you accepted my invitation.  And,
Secretary, thank you for your incredible leadership and partnership.   
  
You know, El Paso has been central to so much of what we have seen for
decades when it comes to immigration.  And I feel very hopeful because,
for the first time in the — at least four years, we have an
administration interested in addressing this significant challenge in a
multifaceted way.  But it starts with the work that the Vice President
is doing in addressing root causes.   
  
But the work doesn’t begin and end with her.  As the Chairman mentioned,
Congress has an important role.  In the House of Representatives, we
have passed legislation.  We are also working on passing the U.S.
Citizenship Act.  And we’ve got to get the Senate — and support from the
Senate to make this happen.   
  
Even then, the work is not over.  We have to completely re-envision the
way that we greet migrants at our nation’s front door.   
  
All of this will take time.  All of this will take a commitment.  But we
finally have a President and a Vice President who have that commitment,
and they are in it to create permanent, meaningful change — positive
change.    
  
El Paso is the perfect place to — for the — for the Vice President to
continue on her exploration of the issues around why people are leave —
leaving their country.   
  
In our community, we have not just a central processing center that —
that addresses those arriving at our front door, but that often receives
migrants from other sectors.  We also have emergency influx — an
emergency influx facility.  We have licensed shelters.  We have a robust
NGO — a group of organizations working together.   
  
And so, I’m very proud that El Paso — a place that has always met our
nation’s challenges with grace, goodwill, compassion, and kindness —
that we were the site of the Vice President’s visit, and we stand ready
to work with her.    
  
Thank you.  
  
Q    Vice President Harris?  Vice President Harris?  Your critics and
even some of your allies are referring to this trip as a “check-the-box
visit” to the border that will have little effect on immigration
policy.  What did you intend to achieve with this visit?  And how you
respond to Republicans who say you should have visited an area along the
border that is experiencing more acute immigration problems, such as the
Rio Grande Valley?  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  So, first of all, what is happening here in El Paso
really is — in many ways, highlights many of the facets on the issue of
immigration.  It is here in El Paso that the previous administration’s
child separation policy was unveiled.  And so, we’ve seen the disastrous
effects of that right here in this region.   
  
It is here in El Paso that the Return to Mexico policy from the previous
administration was implemented.  We have seen the disaster that resulted
from that.  
  
Here in El Paso, we’ve also seen great work happening through the
Department of Homeland Security, under the leadership of Secretary
Mayorkas, and the work of the men and women of Customs and Border
Patrol.  They have instituted technology that, over the last couple of
months, has expedited, in a very significant way, processing of people
who are arriving at our border.   
  
We are seeing here, in El Paso, unaccompanied minors — who I spent time
with — who are filled with optimism, but they are without their family. 
Young children, they’re being processed through the system.  But it
really does speak to, also, the humanitarian nature of the work that
must be done when we are looking at young children who are not with
their families and thinking about how we are going to institute a humane
and comprehensive system that addresses that.    
  
So, this has been a very important trip.  This has been a trip that also
is connected with the obvious point: If you want to deal with a problem,
you can’t just deal with the symptom of the problem, you got to figure
out what caused it to happen.   
  
Which is why, after taking a leadership role on root causes, one of the
first trips I took was to Guatemala and Mexico to see, on the ground
there, what is happening, in terms of the concerns about everything from
corruption, to food insecurity, to the lack of opportunity for
Indigenous People, Afro-descendants, women; doing the work of seeing
firsthand the challenges that that country has faced because of extreme
climate conditions; and addressing then America’s priorities, again, as
a neighbor in the Western Hemisphere — focusing those priorities on the
actual root causes so that we can, by inference, have an impact on the
effect.    
  
And I’m very excited about the potential, as we have talked with these
congressional leaders and with the Secretary — the focus that we have
placed on the root causes includes bringing together CEOs from some of
America’s largest corporations; bringing together some of the world’s
largest foundations, based here in the United States; bringing together
civil society and working on a comprehensive approach that is our
administration’s resolve toward the overall issue, which is root causes
and then deal with what’s happening at the border.  
  
And, again, I will say that Ali Mayorkas is doing an extraordinary job:
boots on the ground here at the border, implementing reforms within the
Department of Homeland Security that are clearly having an effect of
expediting, in a fair and judicious way, the folks who are arriving.  
  
Q    A question for you or for the Secretary.  Here in El Paso and in
many other border cities, people’s lives — families are spread across
both sides of the border, and those lives have been interrupted over the
last 15 months with the pandemic border restrictions.  So I’d like to
know where do the plans stand on reopening the border, and is there a
target date?   
  
Also, is there more plans for vaccines to be sent to Mexico?  And what
is your plan to distribute those vaccines equally across the entire
border?  
  
SECREATRY MAYORKAS:  So, thanks very much for that question.  We’re very
sensitive to the issue that you raise.  The decision when to ease the
restrictions on travel across the border is based on the science and the
data that the Centers for Disease Control has.  It’s a public health
decision.  It is based on the wellbeing of the American public.  We are
mindful of the economic consequences of the restrictions that currently
exist, and those will be eased as the public imperative dictates.  
  
Q    But now Americans are able to travel back and forth freely to
Mexico.  Why are non-citizen Mexicans who hold visas not able to come?  
  
SECREATRY MAYORKAS:  We are — we have imposed restrictions in the
service of the public health imperative, and they are guided by that.   
  
So, for example, essential travelers are indeed able to cross through
the ports of entry for the reasons of their essential nature.   So we —
it’s a very measured, calculated approach that addresses the public
health imperative and also the objectives of their identity as essential
workers.  
  
Q    We understand that you — you were able to meet five young girls at
the facility, age 9 to 16.  Were you also able to meet other migrants
while you were there or during the day today?  
  
And with everything that you have seen today, how does that, sort of,
inform your understanding of the problems that are currently happening
at the border — not just the root causes?  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  So, I met with the children — with the young
girls.  And, you know, it was interesting.  They have obviously fled
great harm.  They’re without their parents.  They are also full of
hope.  They were asking me questions: “How do you become the first woman
Vice President?”  
  
But it also reminds me of the fact that — that this is — this issue
cannot be reduced to a political issue.  We’re talking about children. 
We’re talking about families.  We’re talking about suffering.  And our
approach has to be thoughtful and effective.    
  
And we can take all of these perspectives into account and have
meaningful, good public policy if we just stop the rhetoric and the
finger pointing and do what we need to do, including, as Chairman Durbin
has been doing for years, agreeing that we need immigration reform in
our country and that Congress must ask \[sic\] — act.  Let’s do the work
of agreeing you can’t just react to a problem without solving it at its
roots.  Let’s agree to that.   
  
So, when I think about what I heard and saw today, I will tell you, it
was very reaffirming of everything that I heard and saw when I was in
Guatemala; everything that I discussed with President López Obrador in
Mexico about the partnership between the United States and Mexico to
invest in the root causes, seeing that there is a very clear and direct
connection.  It literally is direct and clear.   
  
But — but I will tell you, one of the things that — every place — has
been a theme has been: People don’t want to leave home if they don’t
have to  
  
Q    Are you going to do this again (inaudible) border areas?   Are you
going to meet with other leaders or community organizations that are —
may have a different point of view, different perspective — even GOP
leaders?  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  I am meeting with a lot of folks.  And the work
that we have begun is the work that is going to be ongoing.  There is no
question — and I said this from the very beginning — that our approach
to this issue has to be with a commitment to a long-term investment, and
it has to be a commitment to consistency.  The United States has to be
consistent.   
  
There were times when we were more engaged and we saw good results; less
engaged and we can see where — where the work and the partnerships then
deteriorate.   
  
So, I am committed to ensuring that we engage — in an active way — on
the root causes, on addressing the cause and effect, and also being
partners in the Western Hemisphere, understanding that we have a
responsibility.  And if we ignore that responsibility, it will visit
itself upon us in a very domestic way.    
  
So, thank you.  
  
12:11 P.M. MDT
