---
category: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-06-02'
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/06/02/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-at-the-united-states-naval-academy-graduation-and-commissioning-ceremony/
published_time: 2021-06-02 13:28:22-04:00
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris at the United\_States Naval Academy Graduation\
  \ and Commissioning\_Ceremony"
---
 
Navy-Marine Corps Memorial Stadium   
Annapolis, Maryland

10:21 A.M. EDT  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Good morning.  (Applause.)  Acting Secretary Thomas
Harker, General David Berger, Admiral Mike Gilday: Looking out at these
midshipmen, I know we are all filled with pride.  
  
Vice Admiral Sean Buck, Captain T.R. Buchanan, faculty and staff: Thank
you for educating such a fine crew.  
  
Alumni, thank you for the support you have shown over these years to
this great institution.  
  
And to my Military Aide, Lieutenant Colonel Frank Machniak, who
graduated in 2004, I am very proud to have you with me here today.  
  
Family and friends of these graduates, thank you for the sacrifices you
have already made and will make.  
  
And I also want to acknowledge Kim and John Johnson.  Your son was taken
far too soon.  And I promise you that he will not be forgotten.  
  
And finally, to the Class of 2021, congratulations.  Congratulations.
 (Applause.)  And look how far you’ve come.  So, you endured 0530 PT and
pro-no exams.  You excelled on athletic fields and in academic
exercises.  You enjoyed the fare at Dillo’s — (laughter) — I know —
karaoke at Harvest.  (Applause.)  You guys rolled up your sleeves and
you got vaccinated.  And you made it to this day.  You made it to this
day.  (Applause.)   
  
And this day — this day that is not only a commencement, this day that
is a commissioning.  And in a few minutes, you will take an oath.  And
it’s actually the same oath I took as Vice President.  An oath to
support our Constitution and defend it against all enemies.  An oath
that has its roots in the founding of our nation.  And no matter what
changes in our world, the charge in this oath is constant.    
  
Remember that as you walk out into the world, because the world you all
are walking into is rapidly changing.  In fact, we are at a significant
turning point.  Just look at the last several months, and you know what
I’m talking about.    
  
And look at several moments in our nation’s history for perspective.
 Think about it: There was the world before the stock market crashed in
1929 and the world after.  The world before the attack on Pearl Harbor
in 1941 and the world after.  The world before the Civil Rights Act in
1964 and the world after.  The world before the Berlin Wall fell in 1989
and the world after.    
  
At some of these critical moments, our nation was compelled to take a
hard look at both our priorities and our preparedness.  
  
And another turning point was September 11th — 20 years ago, this year —
when airplanes hit the Twin Towers and our Pentagon, when Flight 93
crashed in Pennsylvania.  That day shaped your entire life, and it
shaped our entire nation.  It tested our systems, our structures, our
very standing in the world.      
  
Well, Midshipmen, we are now entering the next era.  A new age, a new
epoch, with its own tests, with its own challenges, and with its own
opportunities.  
  
The global pandemic — you see, of course — has accelerated what was
happening before, and it has accelerated our world into a new era.  It
has forever influenced our perspective.  
  
And if we weren’t clear before, we know now our world is interconnected,
our world is interdependent, and our world is fragile.    
  
Just think, a deadly pandemic can spread throughout the globe in just a
matter of months.  A gang of hackers can disrupt the fuel supply of a
whole seaboard.  One country’s carbon emissions can threaten the
sustainability of the whole Earth.   
  
This, Midshipmen, is the era we are in, and it is unlike any era that
came before.  So the challenge now — the challenge before us now is how
to mount a modern defense to these modern threats.    
  
So, let me share with you, for example, a personal experience.  A few
years ago, when I was in the United States Senate, I visited the USS
Scranton.  It was outside of San Diego, California.  And at the time, I
was also a member of the Senate Intelligence Committee.  
  
So, when I was aboard the vessel, I asked the officers — I said, “Hey,
tell me, what does it take to protect such a valuable asset against
cyberattacks?”  And they told me, “You know, it’s pretty simple:
equipment and experts.”  Well, the way I see it, Midshipmen, you — you —
you are those experts.    
  
On the issue of cybersecurity: Foreign advisor- — adversaries have their
sights set on our military technology,  
our intellectual property, our elections, our critical infrastructure.  
  
The ransomware attack by criminal hackers earlier this month — well,
that was a warning shot.  In fact, there have been many warning
shots.   
  
So, we must defend our nation against these threats and, at the same
time, we must make advances in things that you’ve been learning — things
like quantum computing and artificial intelligence and robotics — and
things that will put our nation at a strategic advantage.  And you will
be the ones to do it.  You will be the ones to do it because the United
States military is the best, the bravest, and the most brilliant.
 (Applause.)   
  
And just think, from walkie-talkies, to the Internet, to satellite
navigation, the United States military has been on the forefront of
research, development, and technological advancement.  That is a point
of American pride.  And as I look out at all of you, I know you will
build on that leadership.   
  
And then, of course, there is climate change, which is a very real
threat to our national security.  And I look at you and I know you are
among the experts who will navigate and mitigate this threat.  You are
ocean engineers who will help navigate ships through thinning ice.  You
are mechanical engineers who will help reinforce sinking bases.  You are
electrical engineers who will soon help convert solar and wind energy
into power, convert solar and wind energy into combat power.   
  
And just ask any Marine today, would she rather carry 20 pounds of
batteries or a rolled-up solar panel?  And I am positive she will tell
you a solar panel, and so would he.  (Laughter and applause.)   
  
The American people are depending on you: the best, the bravest, the
most brilliant.  We saw this during COVID-19, when Americans watched how
members of our military helped vaccinate our nation.  Because you know
biological threats like pandemics and infectious diseases are yet
another threat in this era, and you are confronting this threat.  
  
Our military helped develop the technology that made the vaccine
possible.  Naval researchers also figured out how to use 3D knitting
machines to make masks.  Naval labs monitored the spread of the disease.
 And the Marine Corps and the Navy are leading on making the connection
between the pandemic and medical readiness of our fighting forces for
the future.  
  
Class of 2021, you are prepared for all of this.  You are prepared for
any threat.  And you are prepared for this new era.   
  
And it is not only because of the knowledge and the skills you gained
here or those you will continue to learn, but it’s because of something
more.  It’s because of who each of you is.  It is because of who,
collectively, you are.   
  
So, as I conclude today, that’s what I want to talk about.  I want to
talk about you.  As Vice President, I’ve come to know the United States
Navy quite well.  Every day, in fact, I’m surrounded by sailors and
Marines and your tradition and your history.  And I mean that
literally.   
  
So, I often travel on Marine Two.  In fact, that’s how I arrived today.
 My residence is on the grounds of the United States Naval Observatory.
 My West Wing office features a desk built by Seabees from timbers of
the USS Constitution.  My ceremonial office — my ceremonial office was
once occupied by the Secretary of the Navy.  And displayed there, I have
placed the shoulder boards of your brigade commander, Midshipman Sydney
Barber.   
  
And so here’s what I know.  Midshipmen, you are tireless.  You are
ambitious.  You are a fierce fighting force.  You are idealists in the
truest sense.  You are the embodiment of American aspiration.   
  
So hold on to that.  Because in your career, you may witness some of the
worst of humanity.  But promise that you will never forget the best of
who we are, that you will never forget the ideals you stand for: duty,
honor, loyalty.  Fight for those ideals, and fight for our democracy.   
  
And remember, our Constitution is not only something to defend; it is a
guide.  It is a guide for your service.  It begins with three simple
words: “We, the people.”  Not “I.”  “We.”  Our nation was designed to be
a team sport.  And we are in this together.   
  
So, you know, finally, I’ll just share with you: On my way to the
stadium this morning, I stopped by the cemetery to pay my respects to my
dear former colleague, a great and courageous American: Senator John
McCain.  And, yes.  (Applause.)  
  
So, most people don’t know, he wanted to be buried next to his best
friend who he met on the Yard: Admiral Chuck Larson.  That is the
ultimate example of what I mean — “in it together.”   
  
So, Midshipmen, throughout our history, officers in the United States
Navy, officers in the United States Marine have risked everything to
defend our freedoms.  Today, you will swear to do the same.  You are the
next links in the chain.   
  
And so, Midshipmen, when you stand to take the oath, I want you to know
that, as we embark on this new era, President Joe Biden and I, our
entire nation have great faith in you.  And we are proud of you — so
very, very proud.   
  
Congratulations again.  May God bless you.  And may God bless the United
States of America.  Thank you.  (Applause.)   
  
10:39 A.M. EDT      
