---
category: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-06-02'
modified_time: 2021-06-02 18:05:43-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/06/02/remarks-by-president-biden-on-the-covid-19-response-and-vaccination-program/
published_time: 2021-06-02 18:05:42-04:00
title: "Remarks by President Biden on the COVID- \u2060 19 Response and Vaccination\
  \ Program"
---
 
South Court Auditorium

1:41 P.M. EDT

THE PRESIDENT: Good afternoon. Today, the Vice President and I would
like to lay out our plan for June, to counter — continue, I should say,
our successful fight against the pandemic as we approach the July 4th
date.  
  
In just four months, thanks to the American people, we have made
incredible progress getting people vaccinated quickly, efficiently, and
equitably. Nearly 170 million Americans of every party, every
background, every walk of life have stepped up, rolled up their sleeves,
and gotten the shot.  
  
Fifty-two percent of adults are now fully vaccinated, including
seventy-five percent of all seniors. Twenty-eight states and the
District of Columbia have achieved 50 percent of adults being fully
vaccinated in their jurisdictions.  
  
And it’s clearer than ever: The more people we get vaccinated, the more
success we’re going to have in our fight against this virus.  
  
Since January 20 — and we’re talking, now, about <s>15</s> \[5\] months
— the average daily cases are down from 184,000 to 19,000, below 20,000
for the first time since March of 2020. Average hospitalizations are
down from 117,000 to 21,000. Death rates are down over 85 percent.  
  
And this didn’t just happen by chance. We got to this moment because we
took aggressive action from day one with a whole-of-government response.
We used every lever at our disposal to get this done.  
  
We experienced the production and expanded it in a significant way: in
lifesaving vaccines available for every single American. They’re
available, and we knew that was the case months ago.  
  
We worked with cities and states to create over 80,000 vaccination
sites. We deployed over 9,000 federal staff, including 5,100 active-duty
troops to help get shots in arms. Now, as a result, we have built a
world-class vaccination program.  
  
I promised you we’d marshal a wartime effort to defeat this virus, and
that’s just what we’ve been doing.  
  
And now, tens of millions of Americans have been vaccinated. They’re
able to return to closer to a — closer-to-normal life.  
  
Fully vaccinated people are safely <s>shredding</s> \[shedding\] their
masks and greeting one another with a smile. Grandparents are hugging
their grandkids again. Small-business owners are reopening storefronts
and restaurants.  
  
Because of the vaccination strategy, our economic strategy, we’re —
experienced the strongest economic recovery this country has seen in
decades.  
  
There is a group called the Organization of Economic Co-operation and
Development — OECD — which includes most of the world’s largest
economies in its membership. They’ve been one of those leading bodies
analyzing economic growth across — around the world for 60 years.  
  
Just this week, they increased their projection for the U.S. economic
growth this year to 6.9 percent — 6.9 percent. That’s the fastest pace
in nearly four decades. And that’s because of our vaccination program
and our economic response, which, alone, are adding 3 to 4 percentage
points to our growth; driving stronger growth not just there — not just
this year, but in years to come.  
  
In fact, America is the only major country where global forecasters have
actually increased their five-year forecasts for economic growth since
January of 2020.  
  
And because of that, America is headed into the summer dramatically
different from last year’s summer: a summer of freedom, a summer of joy,
a summer of get-togethers and celebrations. An all-American summer that
this country deserves after a long, long, dark winter that we’ve all
endured.  
  
But what happens after the summer? The data could not be clearer: For
all the progress we’re making as a country, if you are unvaccinated, you
are still at risk of getting seriously ill or dying, or spreading
disease to others, especially when Americans spend more time indoors
again, closely gathered in the fall, as — and as we face the potential
threat of a new, more dangerous variants.   
  
Even now, if you look at the areas of the country where vaccination
rates are the highest, the death — the death rates are dramatically
falling. They — the vaccines are effective; they’re effective against
the variants currently circulating in the United States. On the other
hand, COVID deaths are unchanged in many parts of our country that are
lagging behind in vaccinations.  
  
And for young people who may think this doesn’t affect you, listen up,
please: This virus, even a mild case, can be with you for months. It
will impact on your social life. It could have long-term implications
for your health that we don’t even know about yet or fully understand
yet.  
  
It’s true that young people are much less likely to die from COVID. But
if you do not get vaccinated, you could get COVID sooner or later. But
you could get COVID still.  
  
A substantial percentage of people with COVID, even young people, will
suffer illnesses, and some will have long-term health impacts as a
consequence.  
  
If you’re thinking that the side effects from the shot are worse than
the COVID, or that you can’t just take a chance, you are just dead
wrong.  
  
Do it for yourself. Do it to protect those more vulnerable than you:
your friends, you family, your community.  
  
You know, some people have questions about how quickly the vaccines were
developed. They say they’ve been developed so quickly, they can’t be
that good. Well, here’s what you need to know: Vaccines were developed
over a decade of research in similar viruses, and they’ve gone through
strict FDA clinical trials.  
  
The bottom line is this — I promise you: They are safe. They are safe.
And even more importantly, they’re extremely effective.  
  
And if you’re vaccinated, you are protected. If you are not vaccinated,
you are not protected.  
  
Places with high vaccination rates will also see fewer cases of COVID
moving forward. Places with lower vaccination rates are going to see
more.  
  
You know, we were elected to be President and Vice President for all
Americans. And I don’t want to see the country that is already too
divided become divided in a new way — between places where people live
free from fear of COVID and places where, when the fall arrives, death
and severe illnesses return.  
  
The vaccine is free, it’s safe, and it’s effective. Getting the vaccine
is not a partisan act. The science was done under Democratic and
Republican administrations. Matter of fact, the first vaccines were
authorized under a Republican President and widely developed by a
Democratic President — deployed by a Democratic President.  
  
All over the world, people are desperate to get a shot that every
American can get at their neighborhood drug store at no cost, with no
wait.  
  
Every American over 12 years of age — no matter where you live, what you
believe, who you voted for — has the right to get vaccinated. It’s your
choice.  
  
So, please, exercise your freedom, live without fear. We need to be one
America, united — free from fear this fall.  
  
Now, how will we keep beating this virus as we enter — as we enter the
fall after summer? On May 4, I asked Americans to come together to get
70 percent of adults with one shot by July 4th — 70 percent at least
with one shot. To date, 12 states have already reached this important
milestone. We expect — we expect more to make this milestone this
week.  
  
Nationally, we are at 63 percent of adults with one shot. And we are
getting closer, but we still have work to do. With 73 percent of
Americans over the age of 40 with one shot, and as — we especially need
people under 40 to step up. Over 40 is doing much better.  
  
That’s why, today, we’re announcing a month-long effort to pull all the
stops — all the stops to free ourselves from this virus and get to 70
percent of adult Americans vaccinated.  
  
Now, I’m going to take everyone — you know, it’s going to take everyone
— everyone — the federal government; the state governments; local,
Tribal, and territorial governments; the private sector; and, most
importantly, the American people — to get to the 70 percent mark so we
can declare our independence from COVID-19 and free ourselves from the
grip it has held over us — our lives for the better part of a year.  
  
Each of you has the power to help us gain this freedom as a nation. If
you get a shot this week, you can be fully vaccinated by July 4th — by
the week of July the 4th. And you can celebrate Independence Day free
from fear or worry.  
  
This effort has five key parts. First, we’re making it easier than ever
to get vaccinated. Ninety percent of you live within five miles of a
vaccination site. The vaccinations are free, and most places allow
walk-up vaccinations. No appointment needed.  
  
You can go to Vaccines.gov or text your ZIP Code to 438829 to get a text
back with the places you can get a shot that are close by.  
  
And now, we’re going to make it even easier. In response to our call to
action, businesses and organizations across the country have stepped up
to help everyone get vaccinated.  
  
Starting next week, many vaccination sites will be offering extended
hours during the month of June, including pharmacies that will be open
24 hours every Friday night — for 24 hours they’ll be open — this
month.  
  
And if you’re too busy at work or school, you can get vaccinated around
the clock on any Friday. Any Friday.  
  
For parents who haven’t been able to get the shot because they didn’t
have the childcare: Starting today, KinderCare, Learning Care Group, the
Bright Horizons, alongside with hundreds of YMC- loc- — YMCA locations,
are going to offer free drop-in childcare while the parents are getting
vaccinated.  
  
In addition, Uber and Lyft are both offering free rides to and from
vaccination sites — vaccination centers. It’s easier than ever to get
vaccinated.  
  
So, again, text 438829 to vi- — to find out what the nearest places you
can get vaccinated are from where you — from where your ZIP Code. And
visit pharmacies with an extended-hour and walk-up shots that are
available. Free childcare, free rides, free shots.  
  
Second, we’re going to <s>reduce</s> \[redouble\] our outreach and
public education efforts. We’re going to relaunch them, in effect. We’re
going to launch a national vaccination tour to encourage people to take
the shot. The Vice President is going to lead that tour across the South
and the Midwest, where we still had millions of people to vaccinate.  
  
She’s going to be joined by Jill — by the First Lady and the Second
Gentleman and Cabinet Secretaries along the way.  
  
In the spirit of meeting people where they are, we’ll also be working
with the Black Coalition Against COVID and other organizations to launch
a new initiative called “Shots at the Shop.” Barbershops, beauty shops
are hubs of activity and information in Black and brown communities in
particular, but in many communities across the nation. Local barbers,
stylists, they become key advocates for vaccinations in their
communities, offering information to customers, booking appointments for
them, even using their own businesses as vaccination sites. We’re going
to work with shops across the country to make an even bigger impact over
the next month.  
  
We’ll also kick things off this weekend with a National Canvassing
Weekend, where thousands of volunteers will be out knocking on doors and
encourage their communities to get vaccinated.  
  
And mayors — mayors will be stepping up even more over the next month
and partnering with us on the City Vaccination Challenge to see which
city can grow its vaccination rate the fastest — the most — by July
4th.  
  
We need you to join these efforts. This is the kind of on-the-ground
work that’s going to get the job done.  
  
Third, we’ll be increasing our work with employers — employers. A lot of
working people are holding back because they’re concerned about losing
pay if they take time off to get a shot, or if they don’t feel well the
next day. I’ve said before: For small- and medium-sized employers, if
you give people paid time off to get a shot, you’ll get a tax credit to
cover that cost.  
  
Already, millions of workers across the country are eligible for paid
time off and incentives from their employers. I’m asking all employers:
Do the right thing.  
  
And we’re making it easy for employers to set up on-the-job vaccination
clinics to make it even more convenient for their employees to get a
shot.  
  
Fourth, we’re going to continue encouraging people to get vaccinated
with incentives and fun rewards. The state of Ohio had a heck of a fun
reward — a new millionaire last week — thanks to the creative idea of
the governor for holding a vaccination — a vaccine lottery.  
  
The grocery store, Kroger, announced that they’re going to give away $1
million each week to someone who gets vaccinated at one of their
pharmacies.  
  
The NBA, the NHL, NASCAR — NASCAR tracks — they’re offering vaccine- —
vaccines outside playoff games and at races. Major League Baseball will
be offering free tickets to people who get vaccinated at the ballpark.  
  
And to top it off, Anheuser-Busch announced that beer is on them on July
the 4th. That’s right, get a shot and have a beer. Free beer for
everyone 21 years or over to celebrate the independence from the
virus.  
  
Fifth, and finally, we’re asking the American people to help. We need
you. We need you to get your friends, family, neighbors, and coworkers
vaccinated. Help them find an appointment. Drive them to the site. Talk
to them about why you made the choice for yourself. So many Americans
have already stepped up to help get their communities vaccinated.  
  
And over the next month, we’re going to need you more than ever. We need
every American to commit to the five actions I’ve mentioned this
month.  
  
Go to WeCanDoThis.HHS.gov — WeCanDoThis.HHS.gov — to sign up to
volunteer and learn more about how you can help.  
  
Take at least five actions to help in June. And you might even be
invited to visit us at the White House in July to celebrate independence
together.  
  
I’ll close with this: We need everyone across the country to pull
together to get us over the finish line. I promise you we can do this.
Just look at what we’ve already done — we’ve already accomplished
together in only four months.  
  
We know it for a fact: Americans could do anything when we do it
together. So, please, do your part. Give it your all through July the
4th. Let’s reach our 70 percent goal. Let’s go into the summer freer and
safer. Let’s celebrate a truly historic Independence Day.  
  
Thank you for listening. Please get engaged. May God bless you all, and
may God protect our troops. Thank you.  
  
Q  Mr. President, will you retaliate against Russia for this latest
ransomware attack?  
  
THE PRESIDENT: We’re looking closely at that issue.  
  
Q  Do you think Putin is testing you?  
  
THE PRESIDENT: No.  
  
1:58 P.M. EDT
