---
category: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-06-16'
modified_time: 2021-06-16 17:51:30-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/06/16/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-in-a-meeting-with-members-of-the-texas-state-senate-and-texas-house-of-representatives/
published_time: 2021-06-16 17:51:29-04:00
title: Remarks by Vice President Harris in a Meeting with Members of the Texas State
  Senate and Texas House of Representatives
---
 
*Roosevelt Room *

11:18 A.M. EDT  
  
THE VICE PRESIDENT:  So let me begin today by saying thank you to all of
you.  You are courageous leaders and you’re American patriots.   
  
And so, I’m very pleased to welcome you — and for many of you, welcome
you back — to the White House to have yet another very important
conversation, and this time about one of the most important pillars of
our democracy, which is about the fundamental right to vote.    
  
And when we look at what has happened in Texas, we look at what’s
happening around the country, I think it’s important to remember: We
talk about the right to vote, and the right to vote is a given.  All
citizens have the right to vote.  Constitutionally, it is their right.  
  
What we are seeing are examples of an attempt to interfere with that
right and attempt to marginalize and take from people a right that has
already been given.  We are not asking for the bestowal of a right; we
are talking about the preservation of a right that is the right of
citizenship.  And it’s that fundamental.  It is that fundamental.   
  
And so, when I look at that and the fact that Americans are at risk of
losing their access to their right — they still have the right, but
losing access to that right — we know we have a great challenge in front
of us, and therefore, a fight, which is to fight for every American’s
right — meaningful right to vote.  
  
And so that’s where we are.  And, of course, since 2013 and the gutting
of Shelby — in the Shelby v. Holder case, we have seen exactly what we
fear when that case came down in 2013. Because that case was an opening
of a door to allow states to do what otherwise we have protected
against, which is states putting in place laws that are designed, in
many cases quite intentionally, to make it difficult for people to
vote.   
  
And so this is what we’ve seen over and over again, and what’s happening
right now in Texas is, of course, a very clear and current example of
that.  So, to the — to the point of what we must do collectively to
ensure that every American retains their right to vote, our
administration — President Biden and myself and our administration are
here to make very clear that we will do everything in our power as an
administration to lift up the voices of those who seek to preserve the
right of the people to vote.   
  
We’re not telling people how to vote.  And, frankly, this is not a
Democratic or a Republican issue; this is an American issue.  This is an
American issue.   
  
When we look at these attempts to infringe on people’s access to voting,
we know that it is going to impact people — Americans with disabilities,
seniors, students, people of every walk of life.   
  
When we look at these laws that are designed to interfere with poll
workers — well, let’s think about that for a moment.  I have voted and
been — and visited with these wonderful American volunteers, the poll
workers, when I’ve gone to vote at the local elementary school, when
I’ve gone to vote at the local church.  This is who we’re talking about,
and interfering with them in what they are doing as part of their civic
duty.   
  
These are some of the issues that are at play.  And so, I welcome you. 
I welcome you on behalf the President and myself.  As you know, he’s in
Europe right now.  But we wanted to greet you here in the Roosevelt Room
as an extension of the importance of the work you are doing, not only on
behalf of the people of Texas, but the people of our country and our
nation as a whole.   
  
And while we will meet, we will also talk about the administration’s
absolute commitment to seeing Congress — the United States Congress —
pass the John Lewis Voting Rights Act and to pass the For the People Act
to, again, put back in place the protections that existed before and to
ensure, as we go forward, that as there are new attacks on the access to
the polls and voting, that we head them off in a way that ensures again
that the people retain their right to vote however they choose, but
unimpeded.    
  
So with that, I want to thank all of you, and we will talk about Senate
Bill 7 and how it clearly has been written in a way that will make it
difficult for people and what you all are doing as courageous leaders
that, again, speak up for the people.  And that is what you are
doing.    
  
So, thank you all, and I look forward to our discussion.  And let us
begin.  Let us begin.  So, thank you.   
  
 11:24 A.M. EDT
