---
category: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-06-30'
modified_time: 2021-06-30 18:08:11-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/06/30/remarks-by-president-biden-in-meeting-on-western-wildfires/
published_time: 2021-06-30 18:30:00-04:00
title: Remarks by President Biden in Meeting on Western Wildfires
---
 
South Court Auditorium  
Eisenhower Executive Office Building

11:11 A.M. EDT

THE PRESIDENT:  (Audio turned off.) (In progress) — proud of our
Cabinet.  And they’re all here today.  They all want to be engaged. 
They all want to help.  And so, hopefully we’re going to get into some
exchanges going down the line here. 

I want to thank you all again for being in the support meetings.  So
thank you, thank you, thank you.  And, Governor Newsom, you trying to
make us feel bad, listening in that magnificent background you have over
there, and while I’m sitting in here in the — in the White House?  God
love you.

Anyway, it’s good to see you all, really.  Thank you.

For years, the President has received a briefing at the beginning of the
hurricane season, looking at the trends that are coming to get a sense
of what’s coming so that the country can be better prepared. 

And when I received that briefing this year, I asked for a second
briefing that — that does the same thing, but now we’re doing it about
wildfire season.  And we know this is — this is becoming a regular
cycle, and we know it’s getting worse.  In fact, the threat of western
wildfires this year is as severe as it’s ever been. 

And I wanted to convene this group of governors — of western state
governors, key members of my Cabinet, FEMA leadership and the leadership
from utility industries, and senior members of our White House team to
make sure we’re doing everything — and I mean this sincerely — we’re
doing everything possible to help you prepare for what’s coming, and
some is already there. 

The truth is we’re playing catch up.  This is an area that has been
under-resourced, but that’s going to change, if we have anything to do
with it. 

We can’t cut corners when it comes to managing our wildfires or
supporting our firefighters.  And this briefing is going to be an annual
event to make sure we’re focusing on preventing fires — the fire threats
in the first place — as well as responding when they arise. 

But right now, we have to act and act fast.  We’re late in the game
here.  We’re remembering the horrific scenes from last year: orange
skies that looked like end of days; smoke and ash that made the air
dangerous to breathe; more than 10 million acres burned; billions of
dollars in economic damage; families that lost their homes and
everything they own; and too many — too many lost lives.

And this year, we — they could be even tougher, based on the weather
patterns.  You know, California and some other places, drought
conditions are twice that’s — what they — what they were last year.  And
right now, we’re seeing record heat in Portland and across the West. 

And this \[last\] year, you know, 21 large, uncontained fires were
burning.  This year, there are 36 that are uncontained and burning. 

There are already about 9,000 firefighters deployed across the region —
from California to New Mexico, to Utah and Nevada — and it’s only June.

I know — I’ve realized I’m preaching to the choir here.  I know you all
know this better than any other people in the country. 

Fire season, traditionally, lasts through October.  But with climate
change — climate change driving the dangerous confluence of extreme heat
and prolonged drought — we’re seeing wildfires in greater intensity that
move with more speed, la- — you know, and lasts well beyond traditional
months — the traditional months of the fire season.  And that’s a
problem for all of us.

Wildfizers \[sic\] are — wildfires are not a partisan phenomenon.  They
don’t stop at a county or a state line — or country line, for that
matter.  We need a coordinated, comprehensive response with all the
federal working — all the federal government working in close
cooperation to support you, the states.  That’s what this is about. 

We want to know what you — the states and localities and Tribal
governments and those in the frontlines — are facing in this danger and
what you think would help the most. 

Today, we’re taking critical steps to help protect American communities
right away.  First, we’re going to make sure that we have enough
firefighters on call who are trained, equipped, and ready to respond for
all this fire season.  And we’re — and we’re going to pay them.  They —
I mean, the idea these folks are running into — anyway, we should pay
them.

Last week, I learned that some of our federal firefighters are being
paid less than $13 an hour.  Come on, man.  This is — that’s
unacceptable to me.  And I immediately directed my team to take decisive
action to fix it. 

So today we’re announcing what I still think is not enough: This year
we’re going to provide retention incentives that’s going to ensure
federal wildland fires are — firefighters are making at least $15 an
hour and provide for additional 10 percent bonuses for those working on
the frontlines. 

But a one-time boost is not enough.  These courageous women and men take
an incredible risk of running toward the fire, and they deserve to be
paid and paid good wages.  You know that old expression, “God made man. 
Then he made a few firefighters”?  Well, it’s true.  They’re
incredible.  I’ve spent a lot of time, my whole career, with them. 

So — so we’re going to work with Congress, and I know many of your
senators and representatives have been working hard on this for — to
permanently get federal firefighters a better deal, including
improvements in their compensation, their benefits, and their work-life
balance. 

The federal government is also offering funding, when governors request
it, to train and equip National Guard members so they have a — they’re —
they’re ready to provide a surge of firefighting capacity.

You know, one of the things I learned over the years, being so deeply
involved with the firefighters, is the only thing that saves a
firefighter’s life is another firefighter.  That’s the single most
consequential thing. 

And, you know, one of the hardest speeches I’ve ever had to make — and
you’ve all — we’ve all made difficult speeches — was at the funeral of
the 19 Granite Mountain Hotshot firefighters, when the Prescott,
Arizona, Fire Department got clobbered.  That tragedy happened eight
years ago today.  That’s the reason I mention it.  It’s hard to remember
— of all the costs that firefighters risk when they do their job and
their bravery to step up and do the job. 

Now, traditionally, federal firefighting has been a seasonal job, but
because of climate change — and I know you all know it, and I hope your
constituents know it: there is climate change — it’s no longer a
seasonal job.  This is a year-round mission. 

So we’ve made sure seasonal firefighters can stay on the job, as long as
they are needed this year, by allowing them to work beyond their term. 
And for next year, we’re working to make more than — of those positions,
permanent positions so — so that when fires aren’t burning, we have a
workforce of experienced hands enhancing our forest management, reducing
the risk of future fire in the future fire season. 

Second thing: We are harnessing new tools and technologies to better
identify and respond before new fires grow into large, uncontrolled
conflagrations. 

So, for example, the National Oceano- — the National Oceangram- — Ocean
— Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration — NOAA — has satellite
technology that is able to see from space when new fires start, while
they’re still small, even as small as the size of your dining room
table.

Similarly, the Department of Energy has a sensor array computer analysis
capability that can detect in real time the lightning strikes that might
set off a blaze.

And we’re going to use those tools to identify fires that start in
remote places and share that information so the firefighters on the
ground can respond immediately before a fire has spread out of control. 
I know that’s not a full answer but it’s real.  It will improve things. 

And we’re also going to make sure that the people have a — the
information to better protect themselves and their families from smoke
and fire risks.  This will include launching a new apt \[sic\] — a new
app on — from EPA, so individuals can easily access the latest
information on air quality, smoke plumes, and public health guidance. 

Third, we also have to make investments in our future.  That’s why the
Bipartisan Infrastructure Framework investment of about $50 billion in
the — in the — my so-called — anyway, I won’t go into it.  But a bill
that’s caused a little attention — infrastructure bill — is going to
build re- — build resilience to extreme weather events like wildfires. 
Fifty billion dollars. 

And today, I’m announcing a $37 million federal grant to Sonoma County,
California, in support of fire mitigation efforts that are underway. 
This grant is part of FEMA’s BRIC program — Building Resilient
Infrastructure and Communities.

My administration doubled BRIC funding to support local efforts to
strengthen resilience.  And because Sonoma knows all too well the
devastation wrought by fires, they were the first to apply for fire
mitigation funding.  I encourage more communities to do so next year. 

And finally, I want to note that the extreme heat we’re seeing in the
West is not only a risk amplifier for wildfires, it’s a threat in and of
itself.  People are hurting.  It’s more dangerous for kids to play
outside.  Roads are buckling under the heat.  I need not — again, I need
not tell all of you. 

We need people to check on their neighbors, especially seniors who may
need a helping hand; outdoor laborers, like our farm and construction
workers who are going to need frequent water breaks and shade. 

I want to thank the governors and local leaders for providing
information to citizens and the resources like cooling centers where
people can go to get relief from the heat.

And to our utility leaders: We are ready to work with you to make sure
that people have the access to power, including air conditioning, under
these extreme demand conditions while continuing to advance our climate
goals. 

Now, I’m eager to hear from each of you — each of the governors — as to
what the experience has been in your state and what we can do better to
be helpful.  Because this is an area where investing in prevention and
preparation today is going to deliver invaluable returns tomorrow.  And
the federal government is going to have to do — have your backs.  And
that’s going to — that’s my intention. 

I’ll close by just saying thank you to everyone from the Forest Service,
to the Department of Interior and Agriculture, to FEMA, to state and
local and Tribal partners, and most importantly, our firefighters for
all your incredible work.  We’ve asked so much of the firefighters
already, and I know you’re going to continue to step up. 

Now I’m going to ask Vice President Harris to say a few words and then
we’ll move on. 

Madam Vice President, the floor is yours.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Thank you, Mr. President.  First, I just want to
thank the President for prioritizing this for his administration. 

This is a personal issue for me as a daughter of California.  And I say
hello to my governor, Gavin Newsom.  I grew up with drought warnings. 
My brother-in-law is a California firefighter.  As a senator, I have
visited the scene, while the embers were still smoldering — of the fires
— Paradise, for example, California. 

And when I arrived there, a whole community had been wiped out by the
fire.  The families still hadn’t been let back in.  But the only thing
standing in that community were the chimneys, which looked, in that
scene, like tombstones.

The firefighters that were there pointed out to me: If you look at the
driveway, it may be a tragic situation if the cars are in the driveway
because that means the folks didn’t get out in time.

We have so much work to do on this.  My — my home — our family home was
under an evacuation order in Los Angeles.  So I’ve been in that
experience of also saying, “Look, the most things we can grab that are
the most valuable are family photographs.  Everything else doesn’t
matter.”

So, when I think about the challenges that we face as a nation, I know
they are real.  I also know that we’re in a different climate, as the
President said, on every level than we were even 10 years ago, and
there’s a lot of work to do. 

And part of the leadership of this administration has been to also
recognize that the federal government’s role in this regard has to be
more than just putting out fires.  It needs to be, obviously, supporting
our firefighters, especially at the federal level, who are not getting
paid enough, but it’s also about investing in resilience.  It’s about
investing in adaptation, diversifying water policy in a way we are
thinking about the storage of water, both above ground and underground.
We’re thinking about recycling and all that we know is available to us
to actually be smarter, in terms of the conservation of this diminishing
and valuable resource called “water.”

So, I want to thank everyone for your leadership because you all are
giving people a sense of confidence while you are trying to bring
limited resources to what needs to be addressed in this growing threat
of these wildfires.

And the bottom line is that: As the President has said — his bipartisan
framework for infrastructure — it’s going to address a lot of these
challenges.  But there is other work to be done, and so I look forward
to staying in touch with all of you.  And again, thank you for your
leadership.

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, thank you.  Governor Brown, if you’d be willing,
you could give us an overview of what you — the challenges are you
western governors are facing and what you think we should be doing and
can do to help.  The floor is yours.

GOVERNOR BROWN:  Thank you so much, Mr. President and Madam Vice
President, for having us here for this incredibly important
conversation.

As you well know, we western governors — our states are truly on the
frontlines when it comes to drought, fires, and our rapidly changing
climate. 

We were talking earlier before you got on.  Just this weekend, my state
of Oregon experienced three consecutive days of record-breaking high
temperatures across the Willamette Valley, reaching upwards of 117
degrees.  It is unprecedented. And, unfortunately, it follows one of the
most devastating wildfire seasons in our state’s history.

Last year, we had more than 2,000 fires that burned over a million
acres.  Entire communities were literally wiped off the map in minutes. 
We lost nine lives, more than 4,000 homes, and nearly 2,000 other
structures.  As you well know, the impact on our communities and our
local economies will last for years to come.

Oregonians have been through a lot in the last 18 months. We’ve had four
federal disaster declarations in my state since April of 2020.  But what
last year’s fire season underscored is that, most often, those who can
least afford the impacts are hurt the most — our communities of color,
our rural and low-income communities were disproportionately impacted. 

Our disaster preparedness and recovery services must be available to
everyone, regardless of the language they speak, the color of their
skin, their economic situation, whether they own a home or not, or their
immigration status.  Everyone impacted by a disaster should be eligible
for FEMA assistance, including our undocumented families.  It’s
absolutely the right thing to do.

Our local communities are increasingly challenged to respond on their
own to disasters of the scales we are seeing. We’ve been preparing for
this year’s fire season by investing millions of dollars, shoring up
additional resources and staffing at our Office of Emergency Management
so they then can support our local and our Tribal partners. 

However, Mr. President, Madam Vice President, we still have a number of
concerns, and it includes whether there will be available wildfire and
non-fire federal resources. 

We know, as we’re entering this wildfire season, our eastern
counterparts are preparing for a very difficult hurricane season, and so
we may not be able to rely on other regions to help out this year. 

And with that in mind, I do want to say thank you for approving our
cost-share adjustment related to our 2020 Labor Day wildfires at 100
percent for Oregon, treating this the same as COVID-19 and the same as
what happened in Louisiana for their hurricane recovery efforts.

I would also ask that federal Individual Assistance be approved for
disaster mitigation activities for wildfire just as FEMA recently
approved for hurricanes.

And then, finally — and I just have to say, gratefully — our Good
Neighbor Authority — we have partnered with the federal government over
the years to reduce wildfire risk on federal lands through collaborative
processes, including prescribed burns, removing dead trees and
underbrush.  With the recent passage of our state legislation, we have
an opportunity to fund even more of these Good Neighbor Authority
projects together.  It’s a win, win, win.  It creates jobs, creates
healthy landscapes, and reduces wildfire risk.  And we have the dollars
to invest now.

So, we look forward to partnering for you — with you, and we are
incredibly grateful, Mr. President, for your leadership.

Back over to you.

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, Madam Governor, I — I’m not being solicitous when
I say we’re grateful for your leadership.  I really mean it. 

And one of the things that I’d like to ask before we move on is: What —
what would you be looking for us to do at the federal level to
strengthen this agreement to build off the lessons that — you know, the
Good Neighbor agreement?  And is there anything in particular that is —
you’ve learned from last season that would be added to the needs of this
season?

GOVERNOR BROWN:  Well, you mentioned it in your remarks, Mr. President:
Making sure we have resources to train our National Guardsmen and women
prior to fire season has been extremely helpful the last two fire
seasons.  This should be universal practice nationwide.  It’s incredibly
helpful.  We have relied on our National Guard every step of the way
throughout the pandemic, and we certainly rely on them in support
activities and firefighting.

The other piece — and I see Chief Christiansen there — in terms of the
Good Neighbor Authority, this has been extraordinary in our ability to
put people back to work in our timber-dependent rural communities, in
our ability to create healthy landscapes, in our ability to provide
timber for the mills, and, frankly, our ability to reduce wildfire
risk. 

And so more resources to collaborate and provide what you describe as
“comprehensive, collective efforts” to reduce wildfire risk would be
extremely helpful.

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, we ought to get — not at this moment — but we’re
ought to get, no pun intended, deeply in the weeds as to specifically
what can be done.

And I’d ask my appropriate Cabinet members to be working with your
people as to what we can do along those lines because it seems to be
self-evident that that makes a lot of sense.

And — but we have a lot of other things to cover here, but I look to Dr.
Sherwood: Are we moving to —

DR. SHERWOOD-RANDALL:  We’re going to move shortly.  If you want to ask
any further questions of governors, we can move, with the press
departing, and we’ll continue our discussion.

THE PRESIDENT:  Let me ask the Vice President if she has any questions
and/or any Cabinet member if they have any questions for the governor.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  What I’m interested — it’s really a follow-up to
what the President asked: What — with each consecutive wildfire season —
and they are growing in terms of the enormity — what are we learning? 
And how can the federal government address the challenges and the gaps
that you have seen with each fire season, in terms of the resources but
also the approach?

And — for example, including the public education piece; including the
piece that is about encouraging the private sector, where appropriate,
to be engaged around resilience and adaptation.  On the issue of water
policy, what kind of resources do you need that are also preventative as
well as reactive to the wildfires themselves?

PARTICIPANT: Governor Newsom, do you want to pick that one up?

GOVERNOR NEWSOM:  Yeah.  Well, first, if I could just make a little
indulgence — and thank you, Madam Governor and Madam Vice President —
Mr. President, I’ve been waiting almost four and a half years to hear a
President say what you just said.

It’s profoundly important, every word you spoke.  And I mean it.  We —
look, it goes without saying: In California, we were — you know, we were
engaged in a relationship with the federal government, vis-à-vis the
Vice President’s question, that was more like a — you know, sparring
partners, not working partners.

So, we have an opportunity here to turn the page on the finger-pointing
and the rhetoric.  We were debating raking policies, literally —
debating raking policies in this country in the last few years.

But we — our eyes are wide open.  By the way, I’m here in your forests,
our forests — federal forests in Klamath and Siskiyou County — two of
the largest wildfires that we’ve had, year to date in this region.  We
were up here yesterday. Thank you, Mr. President, I didn’t have to make
a call to you to get the FMAG approved yesterday, up here in Siskiyou
County, for the largest of the wildfires — the Lava Fire, which is a few
miles away from me.

But the hots are getting hotter; the dries are getting drier.  The
(inaudible) realities of climate change are here, and they’re here
decades ahead of when we had anticipated.

So, across the board — across the board, we have to disabuse ourselves
of the old timelines and the old frames of engagement.  I mean, the
seriousness of this cannot be underscored.  We had, last year, a heat
dome over the West Coast of the United States — not just some of the one
we’re experiencing north of where I am and Governor Brown and Inslee
experienced most acutely.  But that led to 12,000 lightning strikes in
24 hours and five of the most destructive wildfires — five of the six
largest in our history concurrently in last year’s wildfire season.  We
were burning up.  We were choking up.  We aren’t just heating up.

And I should just say this: With due respect to those that don’t believe
in science, you got to believe your own damn eyes — observed evidence. 
You know, when you look at that thermometer — 117, 119 degrees up
north.  We were 123 down in Palm Springs two days ago; 111 just 48 hours
ago.  There’s no Republican thermometer, no Democratic thermometer. 
These realities are here with us today.

So, Madam Vice President, across the board, we can’t just double down. 
That’s the old stale rhetoric.  We have to have a sense of
intentionality and responsibility to radically change our vegetation
forest management policies; our suppression policies; our
pre-positioning policies; the strategies we’re engaging the President
just laid out on technology; strategies and opportunities to develop
partnerships not only with Interior and not only with FEMA, but with the
Department of Defense — some of those new satellite technologies that
have been around, but opportunities to engage in new partnerships with
those satellite technologies.

The mutual aid system has been stretched in this country.  Governor
Brown, how many times I called you last year for resources?  Inslee,
Sisolak, Polis — all of you on there — thank you.  But we’re stretched. 
We were calling folks in Australia.  We were calling folks in Canada. 
We had the pleasure of having folks — firefighters — from Israel come
because we were that stretched. 

So, Mr. President, just in closing, forgive me for being long-winded, I
just want to say this: Music to my ears, “We got to pay our
firefighters, federally, more.”  Because we don’t have enough
firefighters — period, full stop.  Bureau of Land Management, same
thing. 

We need to really invest in our human resources and the infrastructure
that you have been preaching over the course of the last few weeks. 
Because this is also an incredible economic opportunity to completely
transform our economy and to get off of carbon — or at least drive, but
with a carbon-free engine — and to change the way we produce and consume
energy.

And so I — I just want to applaud you — final words — for recognizing
not only this moment of urgency, situationally, but the sustainable
mindset to start thinking anew about how we can reimagine the future —
not go back to the 19th century, but truly dominate the future.  And
your infrastructure program is a big part of that as well.  These things
are connected. 

And I just want to say we respect and appreciate your leadership, and
we’re just grateful and humbled that you took the time today to be with
all of us.

THE PRESIDENT:  Well, look, Gov, this is a — I’m not doing anybody any
favor.  I just think if — if I were sitting in your seat or Governor
Brown’s seat, what I’d be — I mean, this is — this is urgent. 

And one of the things that I have found since becoming President is how
often I’m required to call in the National Guard. 

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Yeah. 

THE PRESIDENT:  The National Guard.  I spent yesterday — well, that’s
not true — two days ago — meeting with — with our military.  What
they’ve done is just astounding.  I — I just met with the general who
had coordinated probably the largest effort to lo- — the largest
logistical effort in American history getting all these COVID vaccines
out. 

I mean, think about what — how we’re relying on the military in ways we
never, ever, ever anticipated.  And now I got my briefing at NOAA on
what was going on in hurricane season.  And it’s — it’s, you know — and
we’re looking for the National Guard there, too. 

And so we just have to think differently, like you all have been talking
about.  And I promise you, when we get down to the nitty gritty — and a
lot of this we’re already getting down there — you got to tell us what
you need.  And we can debate it.  We can discuss it. 

And I think this is a — you know, that old overused expression — a
“wake-up call” to the rest of the public, who all of a sudden is saying
— I’ve had people say to me, when I’ve been on the road the last month —
less than that; probably the last three weeks — “Oh, my God.  I didn’t
think things would really change that much.  I saw those — those
photographs of the reservoirs in California, and — oh, my God — they’re
really — there’s no water?”  Or people saying, “One hundred and
seventeen degrees and — you know, in Portland?” 

So, I think this is both — you know, the old expression — we’ve got to
make lemonade out of lemons here.  We have a chance to do something that
not only deals with the problem today, but allows us to be in a position
to move forward to make and — and create real good jobs, by the way —
generate economic growth in all — in all the process. 

So, thank you. 

11:39 A.M. EDT
