---
category: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-06-18'
modified_time: 2021-06-18 19:02:07-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/06/18/remarks-by-president-biden-on-the-covid-19-response-and-the-vaccination-program-5/
published_time: 2021-06-18 19:15:00-04:00
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden on the COVID-\u206019 Response and the Vaccination\_\
  Program"
---
 
State Dining Room

2:53 P.M. EDT

THE PRESIDENT: Good afternoon. (Clears throat.) Excuse me. I’m pleased
to announce that today we will have reached the mark of 300 million
shots in the arms in just 150 days. Let me say that again: 300 million
shots in arms in under 150 days.

It’s an important milestone that just didn’t happen on its own or by
chance. It took the ingenuity of American scientists, the full capacity
of American companies, and a whole-of-government response across
federal, state, Tribal, and local governments.

Together, we built an unparalleled vaccination program and managed one
of the biggest and most complicated logistical challenges in American
history.

And above all, we got here because of the American people stepping up
and getting vaccinated — helping family, friends, neighbors get
vaccinated.

Just remember what the situation was like 150 days ago. We didn’t have
enough vaccine supply for all Americans. We didn’t have the vaccine
infrastructure or the people to administer the vaccines or the places
where the people could get vaccinated. But we turned it around together
by acting quickly and aggressively and equitably.

We secured enough vaccine supply for every American. And as I announced
last week during my visit to Europe, we are now in a position to provide
more than one half billion vaccine doses to the rest of the world — the
100 poorest nations.

We’ve developed and deployed over 9,000 federal personnel, including
5,100 active duty military, to support the vaccine effort and to get
shots into arms. And now, we have more than 81,000 vaccination sites
across the country, including over 42,000 local pharmacies.

Thanks to this wartime response, we have gotten 300 million shots in the
arms of Americans in 150 days, months ahead of what most anyone thought
was possible when we started.

In fact, if you remember, a lot of people were skeptical that we could
even get 100 million shots in my first 100 days into people’s arms. But
we did it. We kept going. And what we’re seeing is a truly American
accomplishment.

Sixty-five percent — sixty-five percent — of American adults have gotten
at least one shot, including eighty-seven percent of our seniors.

Just five months ago, we were at only 5 percent of adult Americans.
Fifteen states and the District of Columbia have now reached at least 70
percent vaccination rate in their state. Twenty-six states and D.C. have
fully vaccinated — (clears throat) — excuse me — 50 percent or more of
the adults.

Nationwide, we have the lowest number of daily deaths  
since the first days of the pandemic.

And we’ve built equity into the heart of our vaccination program from
day one. Seventy-three percent of the shots administered at community
health centers through the federal program and more than fifty-eight
percent of the shots administered by federally-run vaccination sites
have gone to people of color. And across the nation, people of color
have accounted for more than half of all vaccinations in the last month.
That’s important progress, but we have much more to do.

Vice President Harris is, as I speak — is in Atlanta, getting the word
out about the vaccinations.

Yesterday, I signed a bill — (clears throat) — excuse me — into law
making Juneteenth a federal holiday.

And this weekend, folks in communities across the country are going to
be canvassing and hosting events to encourage their families, friends,
and neighbors to get vaccinated. The more we close the racial gap in
vaccination rates, the more lives we’ll save.

And as our vaccination program is saying — saving tens of thousands of
lives, with that count growing each day, it’s also allowing millions of
Americans to get back to living their lives. Grandparents hugging their
kids. Kids back to school and getting ready for the summer. People going
out to restaurants and traveling. Businesses are reopening.

Folks, we’re heading into a very different summer compared to last year.
A bright summer. Prayerfully, a summer of joy.

But as I promised you from the beginning, I will always give it to you
straight: the good, the bad, and the truth. And the truth is that deaths
and hospitalizations are drastically down in places where people are
getting vaccinated. But unfortunately, cases and hospitalizations are
not going down  
in many places in the lower-vaccination-rate states. They’re actually
going up in some places.

A few days ago, we crossed 600,000 — 600,000 Americans dead from COVID,
more than every death in World War One, World War Two, Vietnam, and 9/11
combined. So even while we’re making incredible progress, it remains a
serious and deadly threat.

And the data is clear: If you are unvaccinated, you’re at risk of
getting seriously ill or dying or spreading it. People getting seriously
ill and being hospitalized due to COVID-19 are those who have not been
fully vaccinated. The new variant will leave unvaccinated people even
more vulnerable than they are a month ago — over a month ago.

This is a serious concern, especially because of what experts are
calling the “Delta” vir- — the “Delta” variant. It’s a variant that is
more easily transmissible, potentially deadlier, and particularly
dangerous for young people.

But the good news is, we have the solution.The science and the data are
clear: The best way to protect yourself against these variants are to
get fully vaccinated.

So, please, please, if you have one shot, get the second shot as soon as
you can so you’re fully vaccinated. And if you haven’t gotten vaccinated
yet, get vaccinated now. Now. Don’t put it off. It’s free. It’s easy.
It’s convenient.

And as I said many times, text your ZIP Code to the numbers 438829 —
438829 — to find the sites where you can get vaccinated closest to you.
Get your free Uber or Lyft ride to and from vaccination sites. I want to
thank Uber and Lyft for their cooperation.

Use the extended hours at thousands of pharmacies in June, including
thousands that are open 24/7 on Friday of this month. Most pharmacies
now offer walk-in vaccinations. No appointment is needed.

Employers with less than 500 employees: The federal government is
providing you a tax credit to give your workers paid time off to get
vaccinated and recover if they need be.

And for anyone who still questions, that’s okay if you still have
questions. But act — act now. Act now. Talk to your family and friends
who’ve gotten the vac- — gotten vaccinated. Talk to your doctor or
pharmacist.

According to the American Medical Association, over 90 percent of
physicians are fully vaccinated. They’re making the choice to protect
themselves and their communities and their patients. Follow their lead
and make the choice for yourself.

As I said, we’re heading into, God willing, the summer of joy, a summer
of freedom. On July 4, we’re going to celebrate our independence from
the virus as we celebrate our independence of our nation. We want
everyone — everyone to be able to do that.

Let’s remember, we are the United States of America. Let’s get this done
— all of us, together.

God bless you all. And may God protect our troops. Thank you.

Q Could the Delta variant force us back into lockdown?

THE PRESIDENT: I don’t think so because so many people have already been
vaccinated, but the Delta variant can cause more people to die in areas
where people have not been vaccinated. Where people have gotten the two
shots, the Delta variant is highly unlikely to result in anything, other
than — I mean, as — the existing vaccines are very effective.

So, no, it’s not a lockdown, but some areas will be very hurt.

Q Sir, any comment about (inaudible) what the Catholic Bishops have
done? Are you concerned about this rift within the Catholic Church? And
are you concerned about this action?

THE PRESIDENT: Say again.

Q The Catholic Bishops are moving on this resolution that would prevent
you and others who’ve supported abortion from receiving communion. Are
you concerned about the rift in the Catholic Church? And how do you feel
personally about that?

THE PRESIDENT: That’s a private matter, and I don’t think that’s going
to happen. Thank you.

Q Mr. President, have you seen the infrastructure plan on Capitol Hill —
the bipartisan plan? Do you have any reaction to that?

THE PRESIDENT: I’ll tell you Monday when I get a copy of it.

3:03 P.M. EDT
