---
category: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-06-28'
modified_time: 2021-06-28 18:43:25-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/06/28/remarks-by-president-biden-and-president-rivlin-of-the-state-of-israel-before-bilateral-meeting/
published_time: 2021-06-28 19:00:00-04:00
title: Remarks by President Biden and President Rivlin of the State of Israel Before
  Bilateral Meeting
---
 
Oval Office

4:14 P.M. EDT

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Well, I’m really happy to have President Rivlin here. 
And I don’t want to — it’s not technically appropriate, but I — I’m so
delighted his daughter is here.  She’s in the back right there.  And I
got to — I got to meet her and talk about our kids and grandkids and all
the like.

At any rate, I just want to thank the President for being here and for
your dedication to strengthening the relationship between the United
States and Israel.

PRESIDENT RIVLIN:  Thank you.

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  And as the American press here can tell you, my
commitment to Israel is — well, they can’t tell you anything actually;
they’re not supposed to — but it’s ironclad.  It’s real.  It’s something
that — I often say, if there weren’t an Israel, we’d have to invent
one. 

And so, this includes we’re — you know, we’re committed to unwavering
commitment to your self-defense.  And today we’re going to be discussing
a broad range of challenges, including Iran.  What I can say to you:
Iran will never get a nuclear weapon on my watch, as they say.

PRESIDENT RIVLIN:  God bless you.

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  And — and, you know, the — I directed last night’s
airstrikes targeting sites used by the Iranian-backed militia groups
responsible for recent attacks on the U.S. personnel in Iraq.  And I
have that authority under Article 2.  And even those up in the Hill who
are reluctant to acknowledge that have acknowledged that’s the case. 

I also want to be clear that, as I said, my team and I are already
working closely with the Israeli government to — that took office
earlier this month.  I’m looking forward to hosting Prime Minister
Bennett at the White House very soon.  And the U.S. fully supports
normalization of the relationship between Israel and Middle Eastern
countries — that you’re making some headway on — and Africa as well.

And beyond, the important progress we are really looking forward to
building back a wider block of peace and stability. 

And, going forward, Mr. President, the United States and Israel are
going to continue to work together to advance peace in the region and
stability. 

And I’ve only one regret: You’re leaving as President.  But not — not
immediately, and not soon.

PRESIDENT RIVLIN:  Seven years, for Israel, is enough.  For the
Americans, eight years could be —

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Eh — (laughs.) 

PRESIDENT RIVLIN:  — a little bit longer.  But for the Israelis, seven
years, it’s enough.

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Well, welcome.

PRESIDENT RIVLIN:  It’s good to — to be President, I must say to you. 
Yeah.

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  (Laughs.)  Well, you — you’ve done incredibly well. 
You’ve been a great friend.

PRESIDENT RIVLIN:  I did.  Absolutely. 

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  You’ve been a great friend.

PRESIDENT RIVLIN:  I — I did my best, of course. 

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Well, you did your best, and it was as good as it
could be.

PRESIDENT RIVLIN:  Thank you.  (Inaudible.)

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  All right, everybody.  You have anything else you’d
like to say?

PRESIDENT RIVLIN:  Of course, I would like to say and to mention that
I’m delighted — really delighted to be here once again in the White
House with you, the President of the United States. 

Of course, I have to repeat what we know very well: Israel have no
greater friend, ally than the United States of America.  You are our
best friends, and we are sharing — we are best friends, and the bonds
between the people of Israel and the people of America is based on the
understanding that we are sharing values — value — values of democracy
and values of liberalism. 

And because of that, of course, we, according to a real friendship, can
from time to time discuss matters.  And even the — the — agree not to
agree about everything.  But we count on you.  Your, really, declaration
just now really brought the Israelis to understand that we have a great
friend at the White House.

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  We do.

PRESIDENT RIVLIN:  Mr. President, God bless you.  God bless the people
of America.  And God bless the relationship between our two nations and
to our two states.

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Well, I agree with you.  And thank you very much for
being here. 

PRESIDENT RIVLIN:  Thank you.

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  Thank you all very much.

Q    Mr. President, when will you visit Israel?

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  I don’t have a date, but I will. 

Q    Mr. President — one question, Mr. President.  One question, Mr.
President.  Will you — Mr. President, will you say, on camera, what your
statement said Saturday?  What is your bottom line on infrastructure?

PRESIDENT BIDEN:  My bottom line on infrastructure is exactly what we
negotiated.  Thank you.

4:21 P.M. EDT
