---
category: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-06-04'
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/06/04/remarks-by-president-biden-on-the-may-jobs-report/
published_time: 2021-06-04 13:35:31-04:00
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden on the May Jobs\_Report"
---
 
Rehoboth Beach Convention Center  
Rehoboth Beach, Delaware

10:38 A.M. EDT  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Hello, folks.  Good morning.  Today, we received great
news for our economy and our recovery and for the American people.   
  
This morning, we learned that, in May, our economy created 559,000 new
jobs, unemployment rate fell to 5.8 percent, and wages went up for
American workers.  That means we have now created over 2 million jobs in
total since I took office — more jobs than have ever been created in the
first four months of any presidency in modern history, triple the rate
of my predecessor, eight times the rate of President Reagan.  
  
The unemployment rate is now below 6 percent for the first time since
the pandemic hit.  The first 14 months — first time — first time in 14
months, we saw the largest decline in the number of long-term
unemployed, more — in more than an entire decade, in the last 10
years.  
  
Long-term unemployment dropped by the second largest amount ever
recorded.  Not only that, but the signs of further progress are already
here.   
  
This report is based on a weekly — a week in early May.  That’s how we —
they determine the — the job rate — growth or loss; we have growth.  And
that — and this — that week in May, we only had 35 percent of
working-age adults had been fully vaccinated.  Now we’re still all —
they were still all wearing masks.   
  
Since then, 21 million more adults have gotten vaccinated, making it
easy for them to return to work safely.  In short, this is progress —
historic progress.  Progress that’s pulling our economy out of the worst
crisis it’s been in 100 years.  And it’s testament to the new strategy
that is growing this economy, not only growing it, but growing it from
the bottom up and the middle out.  
  
Remember, when I took office in January, our economy was in a tailspin,
job growth had stalled, COVID was raging, average initial claims for
unemployment insurance were over 830,000 per week.  Now those claims
have fallen below 430,000 — about half of what they were when I took
office.   
  
Before I took office, almost 24 million Americans were going hungry. 
Remember those long lines of cars, miles long, people waiting for just a
box of food to be put in their trunk?  That number has already dropped
by 25 percent.  Still too many, but clear progress.  
  
Before I took office, independent experts were projecting that the
American economy would grow by 3 or 4 percent in 2021 — this year.  This
week, the Organisation of Economic Co-operation and Development — the
so-called OECD, which makes up a group that includes the world’s largest
economies in its membership and has been one of the meeting body’s
analyzing economic growth worldwide in individual nations — increased
their projection for U.S. economic growth this year to 6.9 percent in
2021.  That’s the fastest pace in nearly four decades.   
  
In fact, the U.S. is the only major economy where projections of future
growth are stronger today than they were before the pandemic hit in
2020.    
  
And in May, manufacturing activity was nearly as strong as it was in
more than 15 years — stronger than in 15 years.  No other major econo- —
major economy in the world is growing as fast as ours.  No other major
economy is gaining jobs as quickly as ours.   
  
And none of this success is an accident; it isn’t luck.  It’s due in no
small part, first of all, to the cooperation of the American people in
responding to my effort to get COVID under control — wearing masks
initially and getting vaccinated.   
  
And it’s no small part to the bold action we took by passing the
American Rescue Plan.  The plan provided those resources to get shots in
people’s arms; underwrite the vaccination effort; enough vaccine supply
for every single American; more vaccinators, people to put shots in the
arms; and more vaccination sites.   
  
And now, 52 percent — 52 percent of American adults are fully
vaccinated.  75 percent of our seniors are fully vaccinated.  And the
American Rescue pan \[sic\] — Plan delivered economic benefits directly
to the American people.   
  
Because of that law, more than 167 million of those Rescue payments of
up to $1,400 have gone out to individual families.  A recent study — the
Census Bureau data found just how much these checks mattered.  They
drastically reluced \[sic\] — reduced depression — according to study —
anxiety, and hardship for families.  More than 40 percent fewer families
struggled to afford food, rent, utilities, car payments, student loans,
and healthcare expenses.  
  
Small businesses and restaurants are — were getting killed.  Now we’re
delivering loans and support they need to reopen and to stay open.  
  
Schools are struggling to reopen, so we made vaccinating teachers a
priority.  We delivered schools the much support they needed.  State and
local governments had to lay off tens of thousands of educators and
first responders.  Many are now back on the job, thanks to the Rescue
Plan.   
  
In fact, in May, state and local governments added 103,000 education
jobs — returned them to work.  These funds are continuing to get out
this month to support state and local governments, which will help get
more people back to work.  
  
Small- and medium-sized businesses are now able to take advantage of a
special tax credit called the “Employee Retention Tax Credit.”  It
provides businesses a generous tax credit to retain or hire more
workers.   
  
Through our Restaurant Revitalization Fund, we anticipate being able to
help over 100,000 hard-hit restaurants stay open or reopen.   
  
And beginning next month, most families with children will be getting a
tax cut, which will be going into — deposited into their accounts —
directly into their bank accounts every month.   
  
We know that access to childcare is one of the biggest barriers in the
way of parents going back to work.  Our administration is delivering $39
billion in childcare relief to help childcare providers get back on
their feet — the providers — and serve more families.  
  
And this month, our economy added nearly 20,000 more childcare jobs that
weren’t there last month — in fact, allowing parents to have access to
get help.  
  
And temporary boost in unemployment benefits that ended — that we
enacted, I should say — helped people who lost their jobs through no
fault of their own, and who still may be in the process of getting
vaccinated.  But it’s going to expire in 90 days.  That makes sense it
expires in 90 days.  
  
To sum it up: Look, COVID cases are down, COVID deaths are up \[down\],
unemployment filings are down, hunger is down, and vaccinations are up,
jobs are up, wages are up, manufacturing is up, growth is up, people
gaining healthcare coverage is up, and small business confidence is up.
   
  
America is finally on the move again.  As we continue this recovery,
we’re going to hit some bumps along the way.  Of course, that will
happen.  We can’t reboot the world’s largest economy like flipping on a
ni- — light switch.   
  
There’s going to be ups and downs in jobs and economic reports, but
we’re going to be — supply chain issues and price pressures on the way
back to stability and steady growth.  
  
In the coming weeks, my administration is going to take steps to combat
these supply constraints, building on the work we’re doing on the
computer chips; that is, we’re providing more computer chips to be
manufactured here in the United States so it doesn’t slow up the
manufacturing of automobiles, for example.  
  
Everyone needs to get their shots though.  Now is the time to accelerate
the <s>process</s> \[progress\] we’ve been making.  Now is the time to
build on the foundation we’ve laid, because while progress is
undeniable, it is not assured.   
  
That’s why I proposed the American Jobs Plan and the American Family
Plan for generational investments we need today.  We need to make those
investments today to be able to continue to succeed tomorrow.  
  
We have a chance to seize on the economic momentum of the first months
of my administration, not just to build back, but to build back
better.   
  
This much is already clear: We’re on the right track.  Our plan is
working.  And we’re not going to let up now.  We’re going to continue to
move on.  I’m extremely optimistic.  I hope you are as well.   
  
And may God bless you, may God bless America, and may God protect our
troops.  Thank you all for being here this morning.  Thank you.  
  
Q    President Biden, do you have (inaudible) on the infrastructure
talks?   
  
THE PRESIDENT:  I’m going to be having a talk this afternoon, and I’ll
be able to report to you after that.  
  
Q    Are you expecting a counteroffer, Mr. President?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  I’ll tell you after I meet this afternoon.  
  
Q    Mr. President, do you still have confidence in Dr. Fauci?  
  
THE PRESIDENT:  Yes, I’m very confident in Dr. Fauci.  
  
10:48 A.M. EDT
