---
category: speeches-remarks
date: '2021-06-23'
modified_time: 2021-07-29 15:44:27-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2021/06/23/remarks-by-vice-president-harris-before-a-listening-session-with-civil-rights-and-voting-rights-groups/
published_time: 2021-06-23 15:42:00-04:00
title: "Remarks by Vice President Harris Before a Listening Session with Civil Rights\
  \ and Voting Rights\_Groups"
---
 
Via Teleconference

South Court Auditorium

  
  
12:14 P.M. EDT

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Hi, everyone. 

MS. SCHIFELING:  Welcome, Vice President.

THE VICE PRESIDENT:  Hi.  Thank you, Dierdre.  I am very much looking
forward to our conversation today, and I wanted to bring all of you who
have been fighting this fight for generations — I wanted to bring you
together this day, after the vote last night, so I can hear from you. 

So I’m going to share with you a couple of my thoughts, but I really do
want to hear from you.  I do believe that one of the important roles
that I can play and that our administration can play is to support all
the work you have done historically and recently around convening folks,
lifting up the voice of the people, and — and thinking about what is our
strategy to do what I think, collectively, is our goal, which is to
ensure that all people in our country have an unfettered access to the
ballot box, understanding that our democracy will be as strong as the
ability of the people to participate, and any attempts to weaken or
lessen the participation of the people in their democracy will result in
a weaker nation. 

So that’s how I think about this issue overall.  And — and I asked you
to join with this discussion and join me so we could share our strategy
moving forward. 

So last night, you all know, we got every Senate Democrat to unite.  And
that was a feat.  And I think we should all consider that an
accomplishment, which is as diverse and varied, geographically and in
many other ways, as is the Democratic Caucus.  There was unity in
recognizing the importance of moving forward to ensure that the American
people have full access to the ballot box. 

So — so it was no small feat to get folks to show that kind of support
for the For the People Act.  As you may know, I was in the Senate
chamber, as the President of the Senate.  I was not there to break a tie
because, of course, there was not a tie to be broke.  But I was there as
just an extension of the importance of the conversation — it was not a
debate, as we know — but the conversation, to make clear that our
administration takes the issue very seriously, we are paying close
attention, and we will be actively involved in the issue. 

It is clear to me that there are certain truths — probably two that
remain, and there are others — that remain after last night’s vote.  One
is that the right to vote is fundamental to our democracy.  I don’t need
to tell you all that.  It is fundamental. 

And when we look, in particular, at the challenges, at the attempts to
attack our democracy — and, most recently, one of the most vivid,
outrageous examples being January 6th — we know that our democracy is
under attack in many ways, and that we must preserve the promises of a
democracy, including appreciating that the right to vote is fundamental
to that democracy.  That truth remains. 

The second truth, again, is that our democracy has been under attack. 
And we know that when we look at, in 2021 — I’m looking at — my most
recent count is 389 anti-voter bills have been introduced in 48 states. 
I don’t need to tell you more than 20 laws have been enacted in — I
believe it’s 14 states. 

And so when I think about the charge in front of us and the work in
front of us, it is, as it relates to the state issue, not only what we
can do to push back against the active attempts that are at play right
now through state legislatures to encumber and to suppress the vote. 

But we must also think about — as it relates to the states — how we are
going to approach the issue in those states that have recently passed
their laws and what that will mean in terms of an added burden on voters
to figure out how to have their voice heard through the ballot box and
how to navigate systems that, in some cases have — through those recent
laws — been intended to make it complicated and, certainly, difficult
for voters to express their voice through the ballot box. 

I think that there may be some who have been intent on attacking voters’
rights who will perhaps think that there’s some wind in their sails
because of what happened last night, in terms of the vote.  And, again,
I think it’s important– at least for those of us who know how Senate
processes are supposed to work — to point out that opponents of what we
are trying to do — in terms of strengthen and protect voting rights —
didn’t even have the courage to debate the issues last night. 

Yes, there was a back-and-forth, but it was not a debate — not by Senate
standards.  So that’s an important thing for us to remember and — and to
highlight, in terms of the failure to have the courage to actually
debate — if you believe your position is in the best interests of your
nation — the kinds of efforts that have been made to suppress the vote. 
But there was no such debate. 

So, going to today, the fact is: Our fight does not look very different,
I think, than it did yesterday.  There are certain things that remain a
fact and remain true, which is that we must continue to work on passing
federal legislation — the For the People Act, the John Lewis Voting
Rights Act — to ensure that we have national standards that are in place
to protect every American’s right to vote. 

I said last night, when I was talking to the press: This is not a
Democrats issue or a Republicans issue; this is an American issue.  And
so federal legislation, I think, is going to be critically important to
support that — that very basic principle, again, about our democracy. 

There’s the piece that is about state legislation — that has not changed
since last night.  Both, again, in terms of these bills — I think one in
three state legislatures are still in session — and what that is going
to require and mean in terms of reminding and uplifting the voices so
that the public understands what is happening in their state
legislatures. 

More than 31 bills have passed at least one chamber.  So, again, just
further empirical evidence of the seriousness of this, the imminence of
it, and the fact that this is in — this is in active play. 

And again, it’s about what we can do to uplift all the voices around
stopping legislation that is in process, but also addressing what must
happen in those states where legislation has already passed to empower
voters and to navigate a system that has been tampered with. 

There is the voter registration and engagement piece.  And that really
does connect, in many ways, to that last point about the states that
have already passed legislation. 

We, I believe, must recommit ourselves to all of the best work that has
happened in the past around voter registration and engagement and,
obviously, to the extent necessary, upgrade it, knowing that we were so
successful last time and it was obviously noticed.  And so, we’re going
to need to do what we’ve done before but with these added pressures on
our systems because of the legislation that is being passed.

So I’d like to hear from you all: How are you thinking about the work
that’s happening on the ground?  And you, as leaders: How are you
thinking about that piece as well?

And then the final piece I’ll mention — again, you all have been doing
it forever — is the coalition-building piece.  There are some who want
to say this is, you know, Team A versus Team B, in terms of the voting
rights issue. 

Well, we all know that that’s a smokescreen.  That’s a way of trying to
suggest that, “Oh, there’s just two teams fighting,” instead of the real
issue, which is: This is against all Americans what they are doing, and
it is against fundamental — fundamental issues about our democracy. 

And so, I mentioned that to say that you all, by the very nature of your
life’s work and your commitment and the work of your organizations, have
always been engaged in understanding one of our greatest strengths is
coalition building.  And let us agree that this is one of those moments
that we can renew that approach. 

And I’m thinking about all of the organizations, all of the groups.  You
know, I recently convened a group of labor leaders.  We know that there
are so many people in — among Americans with disabilities, seniors,
people in — rural folks, our Native communities, our Black and brown
communities, our Asian community.  There’s so much potential here for
renewing our commitment to coalition building around this issue. 

And so, I’d like to explore, with — with all of you, the ways that our
administration can support the work that you’re doing in that regard. 

And just my final points really is: I want you to know the President and
I are undeterred and we are committed to this.  And it is not an extreme
statement to say that history will show this was an inflection point. 
And either it was the beginning of a clear path to deteriorate and
weaken our democracy, or this was a moment where we — through
creativity, through hard work, and through sheer commitment — fought for
the strength of our democracy, to the benefit of all people in our
country. 

So we are undeterred.  You know, I don’t have to go through the history
of voting rights with any of you.  I often paraphrase an admonition from
Coretta Scott King, which I’ll mention briefly now, because I think it
is apt for this moment.  And she famously said, “The fight for civil
rights…” — which, of course, is the fight for justice and equality and
all of the principles behind the need to make sure everyone can vote —
she said, “The fight for civil rights must be fought and won with each
generation.” 

And I think she had two points there.  One, it is the very nature of
this fight, specifically voting rights, that, whatever gains we make —
we have learned this — will not be permanent.  We saw what the court did
in 2013.  Whatever gains we make will not be permanent. 

It’s the very nature of it.  And therefore, I think her admonition is
the second point: understanding it’s the nature of it.  Do not be
deterred.  Do not be overwhelmed.  Let’s not throw up our hands when
it’s time to roll up our sleeves.  It is the nature of it, and it is the
nature of who we are to fight for these fundamental rights undeterred. 

So, with that, I thank you all.  And I look forward to beginning our
discussion.  And, Deirdre, I’m going to pass it to you so you can
moderate our discussion. 

And again, for everybody on this Zoom, we — many of us have been working
together for years.  And this is the first convening and the first time
on this topic — but for many, many more conversations and the work we’ll
do together in the coming days, weeks, and months. 

So, Deidre, I’ll pass it over to you.

(The listening session commences.)

12:26 P.M. EDT
