---
date: '2025-07-23'
modified_time: 2025-07-24 08:24:55-04:00
published_time: 2025-07-23 16:23:17-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/articles/2025/07/what-they-are-saying-u-s-indonesia-trade-deal-is-another-america-first-win/
tags: articles
title: 'WHAT THEY ARE SAYING: U.S.-Indonesia Trade Deal Is Another America First Win'
---
 
President Donald J. Trump’s landmark reciprocal [trade
agreement](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefings-statements/2025/07/joint-statement-on-framework-for-united-states-indonesia-agreement-on-reciprocal-trade/)
with Indonesia is another critical step forward in the Trump
Administration’s relentless pursuit of trade policy that finally puts
America First. The
[deal](https://www.whitehouse.gov/fact-sheets/2025/07/fact-sheet-the-united-states-and-indonesia-reach-historic-trade-deal/)
eliminates ~99% of tariff barriers for a full range of U.S. industrial,
food, and agricultural exports, unlocks new market access, and breaks
down non-tariff barriers — and represents the latest victory for
American workers, farmers, and manufacturers.

**The trade deal was immediately hailed across American industry:**

[American Iron and Steel Institute President and CEO Kevin
Dempsey](https://www.steel.org/2025/07/aisi-welcomes-framework-to-address-indonesias-export-restrictions-on-critical-minerals/):
“AISI is encouraged by today’s announcement of a framework for
negotiating an agreement with Indonesia to remove Indonesia’s existing
export restrictions on critical minerals, such as nickel, which is
critical to stainless steel production. Indonesia’s existing export ban
and other restrictions on nickel, together with its close ties to
Chinese steel producers that have invested in that country as a result
of China’s Belt and Road Initiative, have resulted in significant
distortions in the global market for nickel to the detriment of steel
producers in the United States. We look forward to working with USTR to
address the Indonesian nickel export restrictions and other
trade-distorting policies as these negotiations move forward.”

[American Petroleum
Institute:](https://x.com/APIenergy/status/1948077376472052112) “The
U.S. is well-positioned to support Indonesia’s growing demand for
affordable, reliable energy.”

[Association for Competitive Technology President Morgan
Reed](https://actonline.org/2025/07/23/act-the-app-association-statement-on-u-s-indonesia-trade-deal/):
“This is another win for U.S. small tech developers. For years the App
Association and our members have raised concerns with the U.S. Trade
Representative regarding Indonesia’s inclusion of software and other
digital goods in their tariff system, among several other digital trade
barriers. We thank USTR and the Administration for their tireless work
on behalf of small tech companies and look forward to our continued work
strengthening American competitiveness globally. Further, we commend the
Indonesian government for joining the United States in committing to
support a World Trade Organization agreement that ensures countries will
not apply taxes or customs duties to digital service transmissions.”

[Business Software Alliance SVP Aaron
Cooper](https://www.bsa.org/news-events/news/bsa-welcomes-digital-trade-breakthroughs-in-us-indonesia-agreement):
“The US-Indonesia trade agreement is a breakthrough in digital trade
policy. The agreement’s provisions to eliminate tariffs on intangible
digital products, guaranteeing cross-border data transfers, and
supporting the permanent extension of the moratorium on digital customs
duties expands access to digital services and supports the adoption of
technology. This agreement sends a strong signal to the global economy
and many industries that rely on open and secure digital trade, and
reflects key reforms that have been core BSA priorities for nearly a
decade.”

[American Soybean Association President Caleb
Ragland](https://soygrowers.com/news-releases/asa-welcomes-u-s-indonesia-trade-framework-supporting-ag-exports/):
“We appreciate President Trump and his administration’s efforts in
maintaining market access for U.S. soybeans into Indonesia, and the
commitment from USTR to address non-tariff barriers in that market. We
look forward to future deals like this that reduce tariffs and ensure
continued and increased market access for U.S. agriculture.”

[Coalition of Services Industries President Christine
Bliss](https://ustr.gov/about/policy-offices/press-office/press-releases/2025/july/us-indonesia-deal-applauded-american-farmers-ranchers-industry-leaders-and-lawmakers#:~:text=Coalition%20of%20Services,global%20services%20trade.):
“The principles issued today reflect important progress in addressing
significant trade barriers for U.S. service suppliers in the Indonesian
market. We appreciate the work USTR has done in securing commitments
that will strengthen and reinforce norms of global services trade.”

[Computer and Communications Industry Association VP Jonathan
McHale](https://ccianet.org/news/2025/07/ccia-applauds-progress-on-addressing-key-digital-trade-barriers-in-the-indonesian-market/):
“The announced Framework agreement for addressing Indonesia’s many trade
barriers, including tariff regimes targeting digital products,
restrictions on cross-border data flows, and local content requirements
for communications devices, is an important and encouraging step in
reforming what has long been one of the most challenging markets for
U.S. suppliers. We look forward to a binding agreement addressing not
only these restrictions, but a path to resolving all outstanding
barriers that remain in this important market.”

[Consortium for Common Food Names Executive Director Jaime
Castaneda](https://www.nmpf.org/u-s-dairy-industry-praises-indonesia-trade-agreement/#:~:text=%E2%80%9CThe%20prospect%20of,on%20common%20names.%E2%80%9D):
“The prospect of having Indonesia commit to a more transparent and
balanced approach to GIs would be a meaningful advance in the global
fight to preserve the use of common food names like parmesan and feta.
We commend the U.S. negotiators for prioritizing this issue,
particularly at a time when European Union is attempting to expand their
GI abuse in growing dairy markets and shut out the United States. We
will work diligently with the U.S. government to hold Indonesia
accountable to their commitments on common names.”

[International Dairy Foods Association SVP Becky Rasdall
Vargas](https://www.idfa.org/news/idfa-applauds-administrations-announcement-of-framework-agreement-with-indonesia):
“We could not be more enthusiastic and energized about today’s
announcement for improved access for U.S. dairy exports to Indonesia.
Indonesia is an important trading partner in a region that is critical
to U.S. dairy exports, and growing. Today’s announcement represents the
largest improvement of access U.S. dairy exporters have seen in the
region in over a decade and will be a timely step towards keeping U.S.
dairy exporters globally competitive. We express our sincere
appreciation to the Administration and the negotiators for achieving
this positive outcome for U.S. dairy.”

[National Corn Growers
Association:](https://x.com/NationalCorn/status/1948054093009719313)
“NCGA supports this development. Indonesia is an important market for
U.S. DDGS. We are pleased that corn and corn products will have duty
free access in this deal and look forward to further negotiations that
benefit U.S. corn growers.”

[National Grain and Feed Association President and CEO Mike
Seyfert](https://www.ngfa.org/2025/07/22/ngfa-releases-statement-on-u-s-indonesia-trade-framework/):
“America’s grain and feed industry appreciates President Trump and his
negotiating team for advancing a bold and strategic trade framework with
Indonesia that delivers meaningful wins for U.S agriculture. This
agreement opens the door to billions in new exports – including
soybeans, wheat, and other key commodities – while eliminating tariffs
and cutting red tape that have long held back U.S. producers. We look
forward to swift finalization and implementation of this deal and stand
ready to work with the Trump Administration open new markets and tear
down unfair trade barriers.”

[National Milk Producers Federation President and CEO Gregg
Doud](https://www.nmpf.org/u-s-dairy-industry-praises-indonesia-trade-agreement/#:~:text=This%20looks%20like,of%20the%20bargain.%E2%80%9D):
“This looks like it will be a significant win for U.S. dairy. We commend
the Trump Administration for securing an agreement that should deliver
real benefits for our dairy farmers. We are pleased to hear this
framework removes roadblocks to trade and will help grow dairy sales in
one of the world’s most populous markets. NMPF looks forward to
reviewing the details of the agreement and working with the
Administration to ensure Indonesia upholds its end of the bargain.”

[National Oilseed Processors Association President and CEO Devin
Mogler](https://www.linkedin.com/feed/update/urn:li:share:7353567743142490112/?actorCompanyId=13018914):
“We commend the Trump Administration for prioritizing U.S. farmers in
this trade deal with Indonesia, and specifically for including soybean
meal purchases. NOPA members have invested over $6 billion to expand
U.S. soybean crushing capacity by over 25% since 2023 levels to meet
growing demand for food, feed and biofuel use, adding value to the crops
our great U.S. farmers produce. Ensuring we have access to growing
soybean meal markets like Indonesia ensures our farmers remain
competitive relative to global competitors.”

[Renewable Fuels Association President and CEO Geoff
Cooper](https://x.com/EthanolRFA/status/1948065739505565951): “We’re
grateful to President Trump and his team for ensuring U.S. agriculture
and renewable fuels are prominently included in these framework
agreements. These deals will ultimately help open important Asian
markets and allow greater access for American farm products, renewable
fuels, and co-products like distillers grains. This administration
clearly understands the leading role American farmers and renewable fuel
producers can play when it comes to feeding and fueling the world, and
we salute President Trump’s efforts to secure fair and reciprocal
agreements around the globe. Breaking down barriers to fair trade
strengthens our rural economy and the United States as a whole.”

[The Meat
Institute](https://x.com/MeatInstitute/status/1947753844147937365): “The
Meat Institute’s members celebrate @realdonaldtrump and @USTradeRep’s
work on a deal with Indonesia opening up this important market for meat
& poultry. We look forward to seeing the details of the deal & to
continued efforts to remove remaining barriers to trade in other SE
Asian markets.”

[U.S. Dairy Export Council President and CEO Krysta
Harden](https://www.nmpf.org/u-s-dairy-industry-praises-indonesia-trade-agreement/#:~:text=%E2%80%9CYesterday%E2%80%99s%20announcement%20is,Southeast%20Asian%20partner.%E2%80%9D):
“Yesterday’s announcement is an important step forward in advancing
opportunities for U.S. dairy exporters. This deal is poised to
strengthen our long-term partnership with Indonesia while giving U.S.
dairy companies a better shot at competing fairly. While verification
that Indonesia honors its commitments will be necessary, the removal of
both tariff and nontariff barriers is precisely what our industry needs
to create new momentum for U.S. dairy exports and deeper collaboration
with a key Southeast Asian partner.”

[U.S. Grains Council President and CEO Ryan
LeGrand](https://grains.org/council-reacts-to-framework-of-agreement-with-indonesia/):
“The U.S. Grains Council commends the Trump Administration on its
historic trade deal with Indonesia, that will enhance trade for both
countries and places a zero tariff on the products the Council
represents. In the 2023-24 marketing year, Indonesia was the fourth
largest importer for U.S. distillers dried grains with solubles at
1,024,000 metric tons. That translates into a nearly $299 million
market, and we hope the deal announced today will not only help see
those numbers increase but open doors wider to the full range of
products we have to offer.”

[U.S. Meat Export Federation President and CEO Dan
Halstrom](https://usmef.org/news/usmef-statement-on-u-s-indonesia-trade-framework-1):
“USMEF thanks USTR for its tireless efforts to negotiate a meaningful
agreement with Indonesia, tackling many challenging issues. Indonesia is
a market with incredible potential, in which the opportunity for U.S.
beef is estimated at $250 million annually. But today, exports are
minimal due to numerous trade barriers. We are encouraged to see that
the highlights detailed in the U.S.-Indonesia joint statement include
resolving key issues such as import licensing, the commodity balance
policy, and Indonesia’s onerous plant-by-plant approval process. For
both U.S. beef and U.S. pork, these longstanding restrictions have
limited exports to Indonesia. Indonesian importers and consumers are
demanding U.S. red meat and we look forward to the swift conclusion of
these negotiations and expanded export opportunities.”

[U.S. Wheat Associates President and CEO Mike
Spier](https://www.oklahomafarmreport.com/okfr/2025/07/23/ag-groups-react-to-framework-of-agreement-with-indonesia/?utm_source=rss&utm_medium=rss&utm_campaign=ag-groups-react-to-framework-of-agreement-with-indonesia#:~:text=U.S.%20Wheat%20Associates%20(USW,high%2Dquality%20U.S.%20wheat.):
“We are excited and grateful to track this wide-reaching government
commitment that includes the agreement signed earlier this month between
Indonesian flour millers and the U.S. wheat industry. We thank the Trump
Administration, the U.S. Trade Representative and the U.S. Department of
Agriculture’s Foreign Agricultural Service (USDA-FAS) for their
continued work on behalf of American wheat farmers.”
