---
date: '2025-07-30'
modified_time: 2025-07-30 15:59:22-04:00
published_time: 2025-07-30 15:59:21-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/articles/2025/07/absolute-blockbuster-new-gdp-report-shows-explosive-growth-in-trumps-economy/
tags: articles
title: "\u201CAbsolute Blockbuster\u201D: New GDP Report Shows Explosive Growth in\
  \ Trump\u2019s Economy"
---
 
With U.S. economic growth
[surging](https://www.whitehouse.gov/articles/2025/07/economic-growth-shatters-expectations-as-president-trump-fuels-americas-golden-age/)
in the second quarter, President Donald J. Trump has proven the
so-called “experts” wrong once again as he presides over tame inflation,
blue-collar wage growth, explosive job creation, and a “Made in America”
boom.

**Here’s what they’re saying about today’s GDP report:**

[Economist E.J.
Antoni](https://x.com/Bannons_WarRoom/status/1950561872941285746): “This
GDP report, I mean, really, is an absolute blockbuster. It completely
defies expectation. It is not only a good headline number, it has good
internals, as well.”

[Economist Steve
Moore](https://x.com/RapidResponse47/status/1950595403444892141): “This
is an amazing number … We’re seeing lots of jobs. We’re seeing tame
inflation. It is really a beautiful picture … It’s hard to see anything
to complain about. I’m sure Democrats will find something they don’t
like.”

[Bullseye Brief author Adam
Johnson](https://x.com/RapidResponse47/status/1950542133812715809): “The
GDP Price Index was only 2% and the expectation was 2.2%. In other
words, we have an economy growing at 3%; we have inflation at 2%. That’s
the best of both words, so I’m very positive on that report.”

[Job Creators Network CEO Alfredo
Ortiz](https://www.jobcreatorsnetwork.com/press_releases/job-creators-network-responds-to-second-quarter-gdp-growth-2/):
“The U.S. economy grew by an annualized 3% in the second quarter of the
year—yet another data point that supports an interest rate cut by the
Fed. Trump’s three-legged stool is working: balancing trade, cutting
taxes, and slashing regulations are creating an economic boom.”

[Navy Federal Credit Union Chief Economist Heather
Long](https://www.cnbc.com/2025/07/30/gdp-q2-2025-.html?taid=688a1484aacac70001dfb02f&utm_campaign=trueanthem&utm_content=main&utm_medium=social&utm_source=twitter#:~:text=%E2%80%9CThe%20word%20of%20the%20summer%20for%20the%20economy%20is%20%E2%80%98resilient%2C%E2%80%99%E2%80%9D%20said%20Heather%20Long%2C%20chief%20economist%20at%20Navy%20Federal%20Credit%20Union.):
“The word of the summer for the economy is ‘resilient.’”

[CNN’s Wolf
Blitzer](https://x.com/RapidResponse47/status/1950596363517153412):
“Welcome news for the U.S. economy.”

[CNN’s Matt
Egan](https://x.com/RapidResponse47/status/1950596363517153412): “GDP,
the broadest measure of the U.S. economy, it did rebound in the second
quarter. Three percent — that is a solid number and it also beat
expectations.”

[Benzinga’s Piero
Cingari](https://www.benzinga.com/markets/economic-data/25/07/46720292/us-gdp-q2-economy-us-trump-fed-interest-rates-dollar):
“The U.S. economy roared back robustly in the second quarter, with gross
domestic product rebounding well above expectations—offering President
Donald Trump a timely economic victory to celebrate.”

[CNBC’s Joe
Kernen](https://x.com/RapidResponse47/status/1950542875986468989): “This
three percent, with the market at new highs and, really, we haven’t seen
inflation go up … none of these ‘horrible things’ have happened.”

[CNBC’s Rick
Santelli](https://x.com/RapidResponse47/status/1950542875986468989):
“There’s no doubt that this is some success. We’re seeing more
horsepower. We’re seeing better equities. Inflation? Inflation really
hasn’t changed much in the last year or so.”

[Politico](https://www.politico.com/news/2025/07/30/trump-economy-consumer-spending-accelerates-00483181#:~:text=The%20surge%20in,a%20healthy%20clip.):
“The surge in growth is a win for an administration that’s been battling
widespread perceptions that Trump’s economic agenda is causing more harm
than good … But for now, the GDP — the total value of all goods and
services produced in the U.S. — is expanding at a healthy clip.”

[*USA TODAY* columnist Nicole
Russell](https://www.usatoday.com/story/opinion/columnist/2025/07/30/trump-gdp-us-economy-rebound-tariffs/85406642007/):
“Thanks to President Donald Trump’s bold policies, it appears that the
United States will avoid a recession this year − one that so many
liberals were predicting only months ago. Will Democrats put politics
aside and applaud as the American economy shows a strength and
resilience that so many of them doubted? Probably not.”

[CBS
News](https://www.cbsnews.com/news/gdp-report-second-quarter-2025-commerce-department/):
“The number represents a surprising turnaround from the first three
months of 2025 … The new data also shows consumers increased spending
since the last quarter, with a growth of 1.4%, up from 0.5% from January
to March.”

[ABC
News](https://www.goodmorningamerica.com/news/story/us-economy-expected-grown-trumps-tariffs-hold-124183248):
“The U.S. economy expanded more than expected as President Donald
Trump’s tariffs took hold over recent months, federal government data on
Wednesday showed … The reading amounted to sturdy economic growth,
suggesting the economy has continued to avert a significant
tariff-induced cooldown. A boost in consumer spending helped propel the
economic surge.”

[CNBC](https://www.cnbc.com/2025/07/30/gdp-q2-2025-.html?taid=688a1484aacac70001dfb02f&utm_campaign=trueanthem&utm_content=main&utm_medium=social&utm_source=twitter):
“The U.S. economy grew at a much stronger-than-expected pace in the
second quarter, powered by a turnaround in the trade balance and renewed
consumer strength.”

[Bloomberg](https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2025-07-30/us-economy-rebounds-with-3-gdp-growth-after-trade-reversal?srnd=homepage-americas):
US Economy Rebounds With 3% GDP Growth

[*The Wall Street
Journal*](https://www.wsj.com/economy/us-gdp-q2-2025-359c022b?mod=livecoverage_web):
“The U.S. economy grew at a 3.0% annual rate in the second quarter,
exceeding expectations … Trump’s priorities, including tariffs and
deportations, haven’t had a major \[negative\] economic impact thus
far.”

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[President Donald J.
Trump](https://truthsocial.com/@realDonaldTrump/posts/114942222209732295):
“2Q GDP JUST OUT: 3%, WAY BETTER THAN EXPECTED! ‘Too Late’ MUST NOW
LOWER THE RATE. No Inflation! Let people buy, and refinance, their
homes!”

[Vice President JD
Vance](https://x.com/JDVance/status/1950558367631519761): “Trump economy
keeps defying the experts. Strong growth!”

[Secretary of the Treasury Scott
Bessent](https://x.com/SecScottBessent/status/1950575608494227932):
“Real GDP grew 3% in Q2, surpassing expectations. Consumer spending is
up, and inflation is cooling. This is what an America First economy
looks like, and the best is yet to come.”

[Secretary of Commerce Howard
Lutnick](https://x.com/howardlutnick/status/1950556071048998923): “GDP
just surged to 3% and the Trump Economy has officially arrived. Biden’s
first quarter is behind us, and growth is already accelerating.
President Trump’s tariff policies have drawn historic investments and
opened up global markets for U.S. businesses. Congratulations America: 3
percent today, and we’re just getting started.”

[Secretary of Labor Lori
Chavez-DeRemer](https://x.com/SecretaryLCD/status/1950552520885199203):
“Thanks to @POTUS, working families are thriving and our economy is
booming”

[National Economic Council Director Kevin
Hassett](https://x.com/RapidResponse47/status/1950556681865232403):
“There’s really strong growth, really strong income growth, we’ve got a
huge reduction in government spending … Every single thing about this
GDP release has shown strength.”

[Press Secretary Karoline
Leavitt](https://x.com/PressSec/status/1950555981559042508): “Today, GDP
growth came in above market expectations, and yesterday, consumer
confidence rose. Americans trust in President Trump’s America First
economic agenda that continues to prove the so-called ‘experts’ wrong.
President Trump has reduced America’s reliance on foreign products,
boosted investment in the US, and created thousands of jobs — delivering
on his promise to Make America Wealthy Again. The data is clear and
there are no more excuses, now is the time for ‘too late’ Powell to cut
the rates!”

[Counselor to the Secretary of the Treasury Joseph
Lavorgna](https://x.com/Lavorgnanomics/status/1950548766261490041): “Q2
real \#GDP expands 3.0%, above consensus expectations! Passage of the
\#OBBB and the CapEx comeback which is already underway will power a
second half boom and beyond.”
