---
date: '2025-07-29'
modified_time: 2025-07-29 13:47:21-04:00
published_time: 2025-07-29 13:47:20-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/articles/2025/07/what-they-are-saying-landmark-u-s-eu-trade-deal-is-another-big-win-for-americans/
tags: articles
title: 'WHAT THEY ARE SAYING: Landmark U.S.-EU Trade Deal Is Another Big Win for Americans'
---
 
In a resounding triumph for U.S. leadership, President Donald J. Trump’s
[monumental trade
deal](https://www.whitehouse.gov/fact-sheets/2025/07/fact-sheet-the-united-states-and-european-union-reach-massive-trade-deal/)
with the European Union is being hailed by trade experts, business
leaders, and policymakers as a landmark win ­— positioning America at the
forefront of global commerce by expanding market access, cutting
non-tariff barriers, and fueling job growth in key sectors, including
agriculture, aviation, and energy.

**Here’s what they’re saying:**

[CNN national affairs correspondent Jeff
Zeleny](https://x.com/RapidResponse47/status/1949908667421380728): “This
is the biggest trade deal in President Trump’s effort to effectively
reshape the global trading order that has been one of his central
priorities since taking office in January. He has been issuing many
threats of tariffs, but they clearly have been working in terms of
bringing other countries — allies and adversaries alike, in some cases —
to the negotiating table.”

[*The Wall Street Journal* Editor-at-Large Gerry
Baker](https://x.com/RapidResponse47/status/1949965125449875598): “Trump
is challenging the theory that tariffs are terrible for the global
economy … The economy is growing. Inflation is stable. The stock market
is booming … He is a very, very good dealmaker … It is a remarkable
success.”

[Commentator Ian
Bremmer](https://x.com/RapidResponse47/status/1949902699434266951): “The
U.S.-EU breakthrough is, by far, the most significant of those
negotiations to date. It’s also a big win for the United States and for
President Donald Trump.”

[Former U.S. Secretary of Commerce Carlos
Gutierrez](https://x.com/RapidResponse47/status/1949910208815255690):
“On this deal \[with\] the European Union, this is a big win for the
U.S.”

[Bloomberg commentator Terry
Haines](https://x.com/RapidResponse47/status/1949911637772947710): “It
is a triumph of a lot of things. Certainly, the President ought to take
a victory lap. I think it ends up being good for the European Union.
It’s a blow against the conventional wisdom.”

[Newsweek Senior Editor-At-Large Josh
Hammer](https://x.com/RapidResponse47/status/1949921228027785613):
“\[President Trump\] comes home bagging one of the greatest, most
historic trade deals in the history of modern commerce. This is truly
historic stuff … I have never experienced, frankly, this much winning
from a president in my life.”

[KPMG Chief Economist Diane
Swonk](https://x.com/RapidResponse47/status/1949968325485764709): “It’s
s a win for the Administration.”

[*USA TODAY* columnist Nicole
Russell](https://www.usatoday.com/story/opinion/columnist/2025/07/29/trump-eu-trade-deal-us-jobs/85340091007/):
“President Donald Trump secured a deal with the European Union this
weekend that promises an extraordinary boon for American workers.”

[Airlines For
America](https://www.airlines.org/news-update/a4a-statement-on-u-s-and-eu-tariff-deal/):
“We are grateful that both the Trump Administration and the leadership
of the European Commission understand the critical role aviation plays
in facilitating global commerce and connectivity. As a result, they have
agreed to zero-for-zero tariffs for all aircraft and component parts.
The zero-for-zero tariff regime will grow jobs, strengthen our economic
security and provide a framework for U.S. leadership in manufacturing
and safety.”

[American Farm Bureau Federation President Zippy
Duvall](https://www.fb.org/news-release/new-trade-deals-benefit-americas-farmers):
“Trade is essential to the success of America’s farmers and ranchers.
Strong and enduring agreements help connect U.S. farmers to global
markets and Farm Bureau has long been a strong advocate for leveling the
playing field for American-grown products. We appreciate that the
administration is making agriculture a priority in ongoing trade
discussions. Opening new markets and working to strengthen existing
partnerships will help ensure U.S. farmers can continue leading the
world in producing safe, sustainable and affordable food for America’s
families and families around the world.”

[American Iron and Steel Institute President and CEO Kevin
Dempsey](https://x.com/RapidResponse47/status/1949952348798828596): “AISI
welcomes the trade agreement announced today between the U.S. and the
EU, which is one of our country’s most important trading partners. We
also appreciate President Trump’s continued commitment to a strong and
competitive American steel industry, which is essential to
America’s national security and economic prosperity.”

[American Petroleum
Institute](https://x.com/apienergy/status/1949930972058902736?s=46): “We
welcome @POTUS’ announcement of a U.S.-EU trade framework that will help
solidify America’s role as Europe’s leading source of affordable,
reliable and secure energy.”

[Business Software Alliance CEO Victoria
Espinel](https://www.bsa.org/news-events/news/bsa-welcomes-us-eu-trade-deal-announcement):
“The Business Software Alliance welcomes the announcement of the trade
deal between the United States and European Union. It provides stability
and predictability for transatlantic digital commerce and fortifies our
enormously important economic relationship. BSA welcomes commitments by
the US and EU to maintain no customs duties on electronic transmissions
and their intent to address barriers to digital trade. Transatlantic
cooperation on issues like streamlining regulation and harmonizing
technology and cybersecurity standards can help promote open markets and
ensure that Americans and Europeans alike are well-served by
cutting-edge technology.”

[Corn Refiners Association President and CEO John
Bode](https://corn.org/cra-welcomes-us-eu-agreement/): “Addressing trade
issues with the European Union has been a critical need for American
agriculture for years, and we are thrilled to see the Trump
administration make progress with this important market. We look forward
to learning more about this agreement and seeing how the EU will improve
its standing as a trading partner for American farmers, ranchers and
agriculture manufacturers. A strong trade relationship between the US
and the 27 countries in the EU will benefit producers and consumers on
both sides of the Atlantic Ocean.”

[Delta Air
Lines](https://news.delta.com/delta-issues-statement-us-eu-trade-agreement):
“The US/EU trade agreement reached between President Trump and EU
leadership is welcome news given it preserves a zero-tariff environment
on aircraft and component parts, a reciprocal policy that’s been in
place for over 40 years. This important step in the President’s trade
negotiations will help protect and continue to grow the role of air
travel as a driver of U.S. economic growth, innovation, and high-quality
jobs, while protecting the $104 billion annual US trade surplus in the
aerospace industry.”

[Distilled Spirits Council President and CEO Chris
Swonger](https://www.distilledspirits.org/news/discus-statement-in-response-to-the-u-s-eu-trade-agreement/):
“This is great news for U.S. and EU relations and we greatly appreciate
President Trump’s leadership.”

[General Aviation Manufacturers Association President and CEO James
Viola:](https://x.com/GAManufacturers/status/1949885338463125523) “We
commend the Trump Administration and EU Commission officials for working
together to support the civil aerospace supply chain and foster the
health and growth of the aerospace industry. The global success of the
general aviation manufacturing industry drives innovation, enhances
safety and strengthens economic opportunity. This deal, along with the
previously announced US-UK Economic Prosperity Deal, will help provide
stability for the industry and drive competitiveness. We are grateful
that the Trump Administration has acknowledged the value of a
zero-tariff environment for civil aerospace with these trading partners
and urge the Trump Administration to further support for the Agreement
on Trade in Civil Aircraft with other trading partners.”

[Growth Energy CEO Emily
Skor](https://growthenergy.org/2025/07/28/eu-trade-agreement/): “This is
yet another example of this Administration’s commitment to American
energy dominance, and we applaud President Trump, USDA Secretary Brooke
Rollins, and U.S. Trade Representative Jamieson Greer for putting rural
America first in their trade negotiations. This latest trade deal with
the EU will deliver concrete benefits to the American ethanol industry
and to the rural communities it supports. It has the potential to
unleash a new era of transatlantic trade partnerships and to enhance
what’s already one of the ethanol industry’s strongest trade
relationships.”

[Information Technology Industry Council President and CEO Jason
Oxman](https://www.itic.org/news-events/news-releases/iti-welcomes-u-s-eu-trade-deal):
“The EU-U.S. economic relationship is critically important to millions
of workers, businesses of all sizes, and diverse sectors on both sides
of the Atlantic. We’re pleased to see the U.S. and EU find a path
forward to help open markets, deescalate trade frictions, and reach a
successful deal that will restore business stability. We look forward to
reviewing the details and engaging with both governments to strengthen
the transatlantic relationship.”

[National Business Aviation Association President and CEO Ed
Bolen](https://nbaa.org/2025-press-releases/nbaa-welcomes-return-to-zero-for-zero-tariffs-with-eu-on-aerospace-products/):
“NBAA applauds the administration’s decision to return to the
zero-for-zero tariff agreement for aircraft and component products
traded between the United States and the European Union. This decision
restores a level playing field on trade, allowing for further innovation
in aerospace, securing America’s global aerospace safety leadership and
growing the exceptional trade surplus the U.S. has enjoyed in the sector
for decades.”

[National Cattlemen’s Beef Association Executive Director of Government
Affairs Kent
Bacus](https://x.com/RapidResponse47/status/1950162853228315114): “NCBA
greatly appreciates the Trump Administration’s commitment to addressing
the numerous non-tariff trade barriers that restrict U.S. beef access in
the European Union. NCBA stands ready to work with President Trump in
full support of securing objective, risk-based, science-based terms of
trade with Europe.”

[National Grain and Feed Association President and CEO Mike
Seyfert](https://www.ngfa.org/2025/07/28/ngfa-welcomes-u-s-eu-trade-agreement-framework/):
“NGFA appreciates President Trump’s tireless efforts to expand
international markets for U.S. agriculture, and we applaud the
announcement of a trade deal framework with the European Union. This is
a meaningful step forward in opening one of the world’s most restrictive
markets to American producers.”

[National Marine Manufacturers Association President and CEO Frank
Hugelmeyer](https://www.nmma.org/press/article/25171): “We applaud
President Trump and the European Union for reaching an agreement that
protects U.S. recreational boats and engines from additional retaliatory
tariffs. The United States is the world’s largest recreational boating
market. Preserving access to global markets is essential to sustaining
the $2.3 billion in annual exports of U.S. boats and marine engines. We
appreciate today’s outcome, which represents a shared commitment to
business certainty and a stable trading relationship.”

[Renewable Fuels Association President and CEO Geoff
Cooper](https://x.com/RapidResponse47/status/1949885715271110915): “We
thank President Donald Trump and European Commission President Ursula
von der Leyen for reaching this important agreement over the weekend,
and we are encouraged to see U.S. ethanol mentioned as part of the deal.
As our nation’s corn growers prepare for what is likely to be a record
harvest, we stand ready to produce larger volumes of cleaner-burning
ethanol and valuable co-products like distillers grains for customers
around the world. When markets are open and trade policies are fair,
everybody wins. The U.S. ethanol industry looks forward to working with
our partners in Europe to continue growing the global production and use
of renewable fuels, which are simply more reliable and more affordable
than many other energy alternatives.”

[Software & Information Industry Association President Chris
Mohr](https://www.siia.net/siia-statement-on-us-eu-trade-framework/):
“We congratulate President Trump and EU Commission President von der
Leyen on the framework agreement that was reached yesterday. A trade war
between the world’s two largest economies would have benefitted neither
side. In our engagements with U.S. and EU officials, we have been
adamant about the need to find constructive ways to address the concerns
of our members related to EU digital regulations, such as the Digital
Markets Act. We look forward to continuing those conversations in the
weeks ahead.”

[Steel Manufacturers Association President Philip
Bell:](https://steelnet.org/sma-commends-president-trump-for-trade-deal-with-the-european-union/) ”The
Steel Manufacturers Association applauds President Trump’s announcement
of a historic framework for a trade deal with the European Union,
keeping his vow to put America first. By crafting a deal with the E.U.
that opens market access, ensures American-made energy will power
Europe, drives substantial investments in the U.S., and boldly maintains
the national security tariffs on steel, President Trump has made America
stronger.”

[U.S. Grains Council President and CEO Ryan
LeGrand](https://grains.org/council-reacts-to-new-trade-deal-with-european-union/):
“The Council thanks President Trump, the USDA and the USTR for
continuing their tireless effort to bring about fair trade between the
U.S. and the EU. This deal promises to build upon long-established trade
with our eighth largest grains-in-all-forms trading partner worth more
than $1 billion in the 2023-2024 marketing year.”

[U.S. Meat Export Federation President and CEO Dan
Halstrom:](https://usmef.org/press-release/usmef-statement-on-u-s-eu-trade-framework)
“USMEF thanks the Trump administration for prioritizing agricultural
market access in negotiations with the EU and with other key trading
partners. We are pleased to see that the U.S. and EU intend to work
together to address non-tariff barriers inhibiting agricultural trade.
The U.S. is a net importer of red meat from the EU due to the vast
barriers the EU imposes on imports. EU imports of U.S. red meat totaled
just $245 million in 2024, mostly beef, while the U.S. imported $698
million worth of red meat (mostly pork) from the EU. Addressing the EU’s
tariff and non-tariff barriers is essential to enabling U.S. export
growth.”
