---
date: '2025-07-29'
modified_time: 2025-07-29 14:37:30-04:00
published_time: 2025-07-29 14:37:29-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/articles/2025/07/vp-vance-champions-one-big-beautiful-bill-in-ohio/
tags: articles
title: VP Vance Champions One Big Beautiful Bill in Ohio
---
 
Surrounded by hardworking American steelworkers in Canton,
[Ohio](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/Ohio-WH-OBBB-Savings-by-State.pdf),
Vice President JD Vance yesterday celebrated President Donald J. Trump’s
[One Big Beautiful Bill](https://wh.gov/obbb) — a [landmark
achievement](https://www.whitehouse.gov/articles/2025/07/president-trumps-one-big-beautiful-bill-is-now-the-law/)
that delivers the largest tax cut in history for working- and
middle-class Americans, drives down energy bills, strengthens Medicaid,
funds secure borders, and rewards U.S. companies for growing right here
at home.

[**Fox 8
News**](https://fox8.com/news/vice-president-jd-vance-is-on-the-road-again-to-sell-the-republicans-big-new-tax-law/)**:
Vice President JD Vance visits Canton to promote Republicans’ big new
tax law**  
*“‘The big, beautiful bill was a game changer, especially the no tax on
overtime provision and the full expensing of capital investments,’ said
Metallus CEO Mike Williams. ‘These measures empower companies like ours
to invest, grow and support families across the country.’* *…*

*Many of the steelworkers who heard Vance’s address told FOX 8 afterward
that they were happy with what they heard … ‘If it makes us grow
profitable, more money, let’s do it. Let’s make this country great,’
said Cody Swanson.”*

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[**News 5
Cleveland**](https://www.news5cleveland.com/news/local-news/akron-canton-news/watch-jd-vance-in-canton-touting-trumps-big-beautiful-bill)**:
JD Vance touts Trump’s Big Beautiful Bill at Canton steel plant**  
*“The legislation allows companies to get tax breaks faster, which Vance
says could incentivize U.S. production. The administration has also been
threatening tariffs on foreign products for months now. Factory worker
Justin Rice said this could help American labor.*

*‘It really projects the hope and the optimism that, really, the
administration is pushing,’ Rice told us. ‘We make a lot of steel, not
only for the military, but also for the automotive and oil industries.
It’s important to get steel from the states, not just from overseas.’”*

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[***Canton
Repository***](https://www.cantonrep.com/story/news/local/stark-county/2025/07/28/jd-vance-visits-stark-county-to-support-for-one-big-beautiful-bill-act/85408732007/)**:
Local politicians react to One Big Beautiful Bill Act as VP JD Vance
visits Stark County**  
*“Stark County Commissioner Richard Regula praised policies on tax cuts
and business incentives. He said the policy to limit tax on overtime
will benefit people in Stark County. ‘That’s going to put extra money in
people’s pockets that they’ll go out and spend in Stark County,’ Regula
said. ‘I think you’ll get more people that will want to work a little
bit of overtime.’* *…*

*Stark County Commissioner Bill Smith voiced support for tariff
policies. He said it will benefit Metallus and other local
manufacturers. ‘He’s put some business sense into it,’ he said. ‘Getting
these jobs back in this country is the biggest thing.’ Extending federal
income tax cuts was necessary, Smith said. ‘Those tax breaks were going
to expire. Once you get used to that, how do you go back?’ he said.
‘It’s kind of tough right now. As things have went up, wages are taking
a little longer to get there.’* *…*

*The legislation prioritizes the American worker, state Sen. Jane
Timken, R-Jackson Township said, and the impact will be especially felt
in Stark County. ‘Stark County is almost a microcosm of the rest of the
country,’ she said. ‘We have a lot of industrial base, we have a lot of
production that requires overtime, and especially we have a lot of
people who rely on tips.’”*

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[**WKYC-TV**](https://www.wkyc.com/article/news/local/canton/vice-president-jd-vance-canton-ohio/95-1a0d8183-b3df-4c04-a87c-8aff8f250253)**:
Vice President JD Vance visits Canton to celebrate ‘one big beautiful
bill’**  
*“Vice President JD Vance promoted Republicans’ new sweeping tax and
spending law at a steel plant in his home state on Monday, telling
factory workers that the new law would allow them to keep more of their
paycheck in their pockets … Vance said Monday that American workers
should be able to keep more of their hard-earned money and U.S.
companies should be rewarded when they grow. He highlighted the law’s
new tax deductions on overtime and its breaks on tipped income.”*

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[***Cleveland Plain
Dealer***](https://www.cleveland.com/open/2025/07/jd-vance-promotes-one-big-beautiful-bill-to-ohio-steelworkers.html)**:
JD Vance promotes ‘One Big, Beautiful’ bill to Ohio steelworkers**  
*“Vice President JD Vance used a stop Monday in his native Ohio to try
to sell steelworkers on the GOP’s ‘One Big, Beautiful’ tax and spending
bill. ‘In some ways, my friends, it’s so simple – it is so simple. You
need a government that works for you for a change,’ Vance said told a
group at Metallus, a steel company in Canton.”*

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[**WLWT-TV**](https://www.wlwt.com/article/vice-president-jd-vance-trump-ohio-spending-bill/65531532)**:
Vice President Vance celebrates passage of Trump’s spending bill in Ohio
visit**  
*“Vice President JD Vance was in northeast Ohio on Monday, celebrating
the passage of President Donald Trump’s ‘One, Big, Beautiful Bill.’
Vance visited a steel facility in Canton, where he touted the benefits
of the legislation, which was signed into law earlier this month. Vance
said the bill extends 2017 tax cuts, boosts military spending and funds
mass deportation efforts as part of the administration’s immigration
crackdown.”*

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[**WOIO-TV**](https://www.cleveland19.com/video/2025/07/28/vice-president-jd-vance-visits-ohio-sell-republicans-big-new-tax-law-2/)**:
Vice President JD Vance visits Ohio to sell the Republicans’ big new tax
law**  
*“JD Vance spoke from a Canton steel plant today about how the Trump
Administration plans to bolster industry and increase wages for
Americans … He touted several ways he believes the administration has
helped people in northeast Ohio. He says the new tariffs will help keep
industry in America.”*

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[**WFMJ-TV**](https://www.wfmj.com/story/52956302/vice-president-jd-vance-promotes-big-beautiful-bill-at-canton-steel-plant)**:
Vice President JD Vance promotes ‘Big Beautiful Bill’ at Canton steel
plant**  
*“Vice President JD Vance made a stop in Canton Monday morning to
highlight the passage of President Trump’s ‘One Big Beautiful Bill.’
Vance spoke to workers at the Metallus Steel Plant, answering questions
before touring the facility.*

*He said the Trump Administration believes the bill is good for American
families and businesses, saying ‘if you want to build something in
Mexico or China or some other foreign country and dump it into the
United States of America, you’re going to pay a big fat penalty.’”*

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[**WHBC
Radio**](https://www.whbc.com/vance-visits-metallus-in-canton-touting-obbb/)**:
VANCE VISIT: Veep at Metallus in Canton Touts ‘OBBB’**  
*“Vice President JD Vance returned to Ohio on Monday as part of the One
Big Beautiful Bill tour. He was in Canton, surrounded by steelworkers in
hardhats at the Metallus Corporation plant, sounding the theme of
keeping manufacturing jobs in America.”*

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[**Associated
Press**](https://apnews.com/article/jd-vance-trump-taxes-border-medicaid-ohio-2fcf19e5b449d1835a99c224a2e231e0)**:
Vice President JD Vance hits the road again to sell the Republicans’ big
new tax law**  
*“Vice President JD Vance promoted Republicans’ new sweeping tax and
spending law at a steel plant in his home state on Monday, telling
factory workers that the new law would allow them to keep more of their
paycheck in their pockets … Vance said Monday that American workers
should be able to keep more of their hard-earned money and U.S.
companies should be rewarded when they grow. He highlighted the law’s
new tax deductions on overtime and its breaks on tipped income.”*

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[**Spectrum
News**](https://spectrumnews1.com/oh/columbus/news/2025/07/28/vance-canton-obbb)**:
Vance visits Canton to promote One Big, Beautiful Bill ahead of 2026
elections**  
*“Canton was Vance’s second appearance to promote the sweeping budget
and policy law that President Donald Trump signed earlier this month. As
he did on July 16 in West Pittston, Pennsylvania, Vance again focused on
popular provisions in the law, such as no tax on tips or overtime, and a
larger standard deduction.*

*‘Here’s what the ‘One Big, Beautiful Bill’ means for you in very
concrete terms. Number one, we’re going to see take home pay go up in
the United States of America—in this district, probably $7,000, $8,000
per family over the next three to four years,’ Vance told a crowd of
steelworkers.”*

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[**NewsNation**](https://www.newsnationnow.com/politics/jd-vance-big-beautiful-bill/)**:
JD Vance touts success of ‘big, beautiful bill’**  
*“Vice President JD Vance visited a steel plant in Ohio to tout the
success of the recently passed ‘big, beautiful bill’ while President
Donald Trump floats sending rebate checks to Americans.*

*The bill makes the tax breaks from Trump’s first term permanent,
includes no taxes on tips on income up to $25,000 and allows Americans
over the age of 65 to avoid taxes on Social Security, which some say
would be costly to the country.”*

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[**The Daily
Signal**](https://www.dailysignal.com/2025/07/28/vance-promotes-obbb-great-american-companies-are-thriving-once-again/)**:
The Daily Signal Was There as JD Vance Toured an Ohio Factory to Promote
the OBBB**  
*“Vice President JD Vance arrived at the Akron-Canton Airport on Monday
to promote the One Big Beautiful Bill Act at the Metallus factory. The
Daily Signal was present as part of the vice president’s pool. Vance
highlighted major elements of the bill signed July 4 by President Donald
Trump. Acknowledging that many factory workers in the crowd worked
overtime shifts, Vance assured them that ‘every single one of you, when
you work an overtime shift, the federal government is not going to take
a dime out of that overtime pay!’”*
