---
date: '2025-07-07'
published_time: 2025-07-07 13:22:52-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/articles/2025/07/president-trumps-one-big-beautiful-bill-a-win-for-workers-farmers-and-americas-future/
tags: articles
title: "President Trump\u2019s One Big Beautiful Bill: A Win for Workers, Farmers,\
  \ and America\u2019s Future"
---
 
President Donald J. Trump’s One Big Beautiful Bill — now the [law of the
land](https://www.whitehouse.gov/articles/2025/07/president-trumps-one-big-beautiful-bill-is-now-the-law/)
— is a sweeping legislative triumph that combines the largest tax cuts
in history with landmark investments in America’s future and defense.
From No Tax on Social Security for millions of seniors to permanent
relief for small businesses and historic funding for national security,
this bill unleashes economic prosperity and empowers every American
while strengthening our nation’s defenses and boldly looking to the
future.

[**MustReadAlaska.com**](https://mustreadalaska.com/big-beautiful-icebreakers-are-alaska-wins-as-russia-and-china-work-together-to-gain-foothold-in-arctic/)**:
Big Beautiful Icebreakers are Alaska wins, as Russia and China work
together to gain foothold in Arctic**

*“The One Big Beautiful Bill Act, signed by President Donald Trump on
July 4, includes a historic investment in US Arctic security, totaling
nearly $9 billion for icebreakers that may put America back in charge of
the frozen frontier.*

*The legislation delivers $4.3 billion for heavy Polar security cutters,
$3.5 billion for medium Arctic security cutters, and an additional $816
million for lighter ice-capable vessels. It’s the largest Arctic
maritime investment in US history, and it comes at a moment of
escalating geopolitical stakes in the Far North.”*

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[**WFTV (Orlando,
Florida)**](https://www.wftv.com/news/local/big-beautiful-bill-act-prompts-largest-investment-us-coast-guard-services-history/GZPLRMG7AJA4TG275WOIXRU4RE/)**:
Big Beautiful Bill Act prompts largest investment in U.S. Coast Guard
Service’s history**

*“The U.S. Coast Guard has received nearly $25 billion in funding from
the One Big Beautiful Bill Act, marking the largest investment in the
Service’s history. This historic funding will strengthen the Coast
Guard’s ability to combat drugs and improve maritime security by
enabling the purchase of new vessels and aircraft, and upgrading
infrastructure.”*

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[**ABC15 (Phoenix,
Arizona)**](https://www.abc15.com/news/local-news/advocates-for-arizona-radiation-exposure-victims-score-big-win-in-congress)**:
Advocates for Arizona radiation exposure victims score big win in
Congress**

*“After decades of fighting, advocates for those who faced radiation
exposure in Arizona and elsewhere are getting a big win through
President Donald Trump’s One Big, Beautiful Bill.*

*That push in Congress to carry on the Radiation Exposure Compensation
Act, or RECA, is finding victory after more than 30 years.”*

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[**National Federation of Independent
Business**](https://www.nfib.com/news/press-release/americas-small-businesses-applaud-president-trump-congress-for-stopping-massive-tax-hike-on-main-street/)**:
America’s Small Businesses Applaud President Trump, Congress for
Stopping Massive Tax Hike on Main Street**

*“Since 2017, the Small Business Tax Deduction has allowed small
businesses to deduct up to 20% of their business income. Without
immediate action by Congress, this essential tax deduction was set to
expire at the end of the year, raising taxes on millions of small
businesses. The One Big Beautiful Bill Act provides permanent tax
relief, freeing America’s small businesses to invest in their businesses
and employees. Along with making the Small Business Deduction permanent,
the One Big Beautiful Bill Act includes additional wins for small
businesses:*

-   *Increases Section 179, Small Business Expensing Cap from $1.25
    million to $2.5 million. This will allow small businesses to fully
    expense business equipment purchases in the first year.*
-   *Makes the 2017 marginal rate cuts permanent. Without this
    provision, five out of seven marginal (individual) income tax rates
    will rise at the end of the year. Nine out of 10 small businesses
    are organized as pass-through businesses and pay regular income tax
    rates rather than the C-corporation rate.*
-   *Increases and makes permanent the Small Business Estate Tax
    Exemption. The new exemption thresholds will be set at $15 million
    for individual filers and $30 million for joint filers.”*

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[**National Hog
Farmer**](https://www.nationalhogfarmer.com/farming-business-management/following-one-big-beautiful-bill-signing-nppc-looks-ahead-to-skinny-farm-bill)**:
The National Pork Producers Council thanks President Trump for signing
into law the “One Big, Beautiful Bill”**

*“NPPC President Duane Stateler, a pork producer from McComb, Ohio,
said, ‘The ‘One Big, Beautiful Bill’ is one of the most consequential
pieces of legislation for American agriculture in years. It helps
producers protect our herds by fending off foreign animal diseases, and
it also cuts red tape, allowing us to more easily pass down our farms to
the next generation.’ NPPC thanks President Trump for signing ‘One Big,
Beautiful Bill’ into law and Chairmen Thompson and Boozman for listening
to our input and shepherding this legislation through their respective
chambers.”*

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[**AgDaily**](https://www.agdaily.com/news/farmers-repeatedly-praise-one-piece-trumps-budget-bill/)**:
Farmers repeatedly praise this one piece of Trump’s budget bill**

*“‘Thank you, President Trump.’ That sentiment has been repeated often
by farmers during conversations and across social media in the days
since the One Big Beautiful Bill Act passed through Congress and was
signed into law. Farmers have specifically celebrated how the bill
overhauls the ‘death tax’ — the taxes imposed by the federal and some
state governments on someone’s estate upon death …*

*This is particularly important for commodity and other traditionally
large-scale agricultural producers. Unlike liquid assets such as stocks
or bank accounts, a farm’s value is often tied up in land, equipment,
and other hard assets. It’s not uncommon for a modest, family-run farm
to be worth millions of dollars on paper, even if the family running it
isn’t living a life of luxury. When those hard assets are included in an
estate calculation, especially as the value of an acre increases, it
doesn’t take long for farmland to hit the exemption threshold.*

*‘For farm families, estate taxes aren’t just an abstract policy debate
— they’re a very real threat to generational farms and the livelihoods
they support,’ said Amanda Zaluckyj, an AGDAILY columnist, lawyer, and
part of a family farm in Michigan. ‘Land-rich but cash-poor families may
be forced to sell land, equipment, or even the farm itself just to pay
the estate tax bill. That’s not just a financial inconvenience — it’s a
devastating blow to families who have spent generations building their
operations with the intention of passing them on to their children and
grandchildren.’”*

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[**Retail Insight
Network**](https://www.retail-insight-network.com/news/trumps-one-big-beautiful-bill-wins-praise-from-us-retailers/?cf-view)**:
Trump’s ‘One Big Beautiful Bill’ wins praise from US retailers**

*“With Congress approving President Trump’s sweeping “One Big Beautiful
Bill” ahead of Independence Day, US retailers are voicing strong support
for the legislation’s pro-growth measures, hailing it as a historic step
for the economy.”*

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[**Secretary of the Treasury Scott
Bessent**](https://www.foxnews.com/opinion/president-trumps-big-beautiful-bill-unleash-parallel-prosperity)**:
President Trump’s ‘big, beautiful bill’ will unleash parallel
prosperity**

*“We have seen American workers benefit from the president’s economic
approach before. Under President Trump’s 2017 tax cuts, the net worth of
the bottom 50% of households increased faster than the net worth of the
top 10% of households. That will happen again under the One Big
Beautiful Bill. The bill prevents a $4.5 trillion tax hike on the
American people. This will allow the average worker to keep an
additional $4,000 to $7,200 in annual real wages and allow the average
family of four to keep an additional $7,600 to $10,900 in take-home pay.
Add to this the president’s ambitious deregulation agenda, which could
save the average family of four an additional $10,000. For millions of
Americans, these savings are the difference between being able to make a
mortgage payment, buy a car, or send a child to college.*

*The president is delivering on his promise to seniors as well. The bill
provides an additional $6,000 deduction for seniors, which will mean
that 88% of seniors receiving Social Security income will pay no tax on
their Social Security benefits.*

*The One Big Beautiful Bill also codifies no tax on tips and no tax on
overtime pay—both policies designed to provide financial relief to
America’s working class. These tax breaks will ensure Main Street
workers keep more of their hard-earned income. And they will bolster
productivity by rewarding Americans who work extra hours … These
productivity-enhancing measures dovetail with the second booster in the
blue-collar boom: providing 100% expensing for new factories and
existing factories that expand operations, plus car loan interest
deductibility to support Made-in-America.”*

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[**Rep. Riley
Moore**](https://www.theintermountain.com/news/local-news/2025/07/op-ed-one-big-beautiful-bill-delivers-for-west-virginia-by-congressman-riley-moore)**:
One Big Beautiful Bill Delivers for West Virginia**

*“President Trump’s signature legislation is a huge win for the American
people that puts our nation on the path to a new Golden Age. I’m proud
to have voted in favor of this legislation that puts America First.*

*The One Big Beautiful Bill gives the Trump Administration the tools it
needs to reclaim our national sovereignty and ramp up mass deportations.
It delivers the largest tax cut for working and middle-class families in
American history. It also unleashes American energy, which is critical
to powering our economy, reindustrializing the heartland, and winning
the global AI arms race.”*

------------------------------------------------------------------------

[**Rep. Randy
Feenstra**](https://www.timesrepublican.com/opinion/columnists/2025/07/making-president-trumps-one-big-beautiful-bill-the-law-of-the-land/)**:
Making President Trump’s ‘One, Big, Beautiful Bill’ the law of the
land**

*“This pro-family, pro-worker, pro-growth economic package is the
culmination of President Trump’s campaign promises and conservative
economic principles, which will dramatically grow our economy, cut
deficits, and create jobs. It is the largest tax cut in American history
for families, farmers, workers, and small businesses, ensuring that
Iowans keep more of their hard-earned money – not the federal
government.*

*The provisions of the ‘One, Big, Beautiful Bill’ will be jet fuel for
our economy. Estimates by the Council of Economic Advisers suggest that
our GDP could grow by as much as 5.2% in the short run and 3.5% in the
long run while investment in our country could see a 14.5% boost with
more than four million jobs created in the long term. These figures
underscore the positive effects of tax cuts, sensible deregulation, and
certainty for businesses and manufacturers.”*
