---
date: '2025-07-03'
modified_time: 2025-07-03 15:26:08-04:00
published_time: 2025-07-03 15:26:07-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/articles/2025/07/history-made-the-one-big-beautiful-bill-is-on-its-way-to-president-trumps-desk/
tags: articles
title: "HISTORY MADE: The One Big Beautiful Bill Is on Its Way to President Trump\u2019\
  s Desk"
---
 
*“President Trump’s One Big, Beautiful Bill delivers on the commonsense
agenda that nearly 80 million Americans voted for – the largest
middle-class tax cut in history, permanent border security, massive
military funding, and restoring fiscal sanity. The pro-growth policies
within this historic legislation are going to fuel an economic boom like
we’ve never seen before. President Trump looks forward to signing the
One Big, Beautiful Bill into law to officially usher in the Golden Age
of America.”* — Press Secretary Karoline Leavitt

The House of Representatives just officially
[PASSED](https://x.com/RapidResponse47/status/1940841386305319258) the
One Big Beautiful Bill, giving final approval to President Donald J.
Trump’s landmark legislation in what is being
[called](https://x.com/RapidResponse47/status/1940842373078307099) the
“biggest legislative win of President Trump’s two terms.”

**Now, the largest middle-class tax cut in American history — and so
much more — is on its way to President Trump’s desk.**

Again and again, Democrats tried to block historic tax relief, increased
border security, higher wages, an expanded Child Tax Credit, No Tax on
Tips, No Tax on Overtime, No Tax on Social Security, savings accounts
for newborns, and so much more — but again and again, President Trump
and Republicans fought and won for the American people.

**“This could not be a bigger deal for President Trump and his
administration,”** [said
CNN](https://x.com/RapidResponse47/status/1940843284819333406).
**“Because they believe this bill really encapsulates everything
President Trump wants to do with his agenda.”**
