---
date: '2025-07-01'
modified_time: 2025-07-01 17:36:32-04:00
published_time: 2025-07-01 17:36:31-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/articles/2025/07/what-they-are-saying-senate-approves-landmark-one-big-beautiful-bill/
tags: articles
title: 'WHAT THEY ARE SAYING: Senate Approves Landmark One Big Beautiful Bill'
---
 
The Senate delivered a resounding victory for American workers, farmers,
and small businesses by
[passing](https://x.com/RapidResponse47/status/1940079817686413712)
President Donald J. Trump’s One Big Beautiful Bill — a transformative
legislative package that locks in historic tax relief, delivers border
security, reforms welfare, funds critical infrastructure, and more.

**Industry leaders and stakeholders nationwide hailed the Senate’s vote
and called on the House to swiftly send the bill to President Trump’s
desk:**

[Airlines for
America](https://www.airlines.org/news-update/a4a-statement-on-senate-reconciliation-package/):
“We are grateful that the Senate understands the urgent need to overhaul
our nation’s air traffic control (ATC) system and included $12.5 billion
in their reconciliation package for that cause. This is an important
first step as Secretary Duffy works to implement President Trump’s
vision of a brand new, state-of-the-art system. We especially appreciate
Commerce Committee Chairman Ted Cruz for his long-time dedication to the
safety and efficiency of our nation’s airspace. We urge the House of
Representatives to quickly pass this legislation so President Trump can
sign the One Big Beautiful Bill into law, begin the work of upgrading
our ATC system and revitalize our airspace.”

[America’s Credit Unions President and CEO Jim
Nussle](https://www.americascreditunions.org/news-media/press-release/statement-americas-credit-unions-senate-passage-hr-1):
“We thank the U.S. Senate for securing the credit union not-for-profit
tax status and not adding a new tax on 142 million credit union members
as part of H.R. 1. Hard working Americans and their communities rely on
the competitive rates and personally tailored services offered by credit
unions to achieve their American Dream. By preserving the credit union
tax status, it provides consumers across the country with more
opportunities to achieve financial freedom.”

**American Airlines**: “American Airlines strongly supports the
much-needed funding to bolster and modernize our air traffic control
system in the Senate reconciliation bill. In addition to staffing
challenges, the U.S. air traffic control system’s technology and
infrastructure have fallen behind much of the world. As President Trump
and Secretary Duffy urgently work to build a state-of-the-art air
traffic control system, this down payment is an essential first step in
making aviation even safer and more efficient. The reconciliation bill
also extends other key pro-growth tax policies that provide businesses
with the necessary certainty to continue driving the economy. We urge
the House to move swiftly and pass the bill.”

[American Farm Bureau Federation President Zippy
Duvall](https://www.fb.org/news-release/farm-bureau-applauds-senate-passage-of-one-big-beautiful-bill):
“Farm Bureau applauds the U.S. Senate for passing the reconciliation
package. Farmers and ranchers are the foundation of America’s food
supply chain, and they need the certainty that this legislation will
provide. Improvements to farm safety net programs that reflect today’s
agricultural economy and maintaining important tax provisions will
directly benefit farm and ranch families … Important tax provisions will
also help farmers save money that can be used to pay bills, invest in
new technologies, and pass the family farm to the next generation. We
now urge the House to pass the bill and get it to the president’s desk
for his signature to ensure America’s farmers and ranchers can continue
putting food on the table for America’s families.”

[American Federation for Children CEO Tommy
Schultz](https://www.federationforchildren.org/afc-celebrates-school-choice-tax-credit-advancing/):
“The mission is clear: deliver school choice to every state in America.
Today’s vote marks a monumental step toward that goal for the first time
in history … We are eager to see President Trump sign school choice into
law!”

[American Hotel & Lodging Association President and CEO Rosanna
Maietta](https://www.ahla.com/news/ahla-issues-statement-senate-passage-reconciliation-package):
“AHLA applauds the Senate’s swift action today to prevent major tax
increases on both hotel employees and businesses. The tax provisions
included in the Senate bill provide small business hotel owners with the
level of certainty they need to effectively operate amidst tremendous
uncertainty resulting from years of inflation, trade impacts, and a
softening of demand within the broader travel sector. We commend
Majority Leader Thune, Senator Crapo, and other Senate champions for
securing passage. We urge Congress to swiftly get this package to the
President’s desk for his signature to help put businesses back on a
pro-growth footing.” 

[American Iron and Steel Institute President and CEO Kevin
Dempsey](https://x.com/RapidResponse47/status/1940096980405166220):
“Capital investment is crucial for economic growth and job creation in
the American steel industry and the manufacturing sector as a whole.
Many of the key capital cost recovery provisions of the 2017 tax law
have expired or are being phased out. Restoring these provisions is
essential to ensuring that many companies will be able to make new
investments in steel-intensive facilities and machinery. We applaud
Senate passage of this legislation which will permanently restore key
provisions that have a proven record of fueling innovation and economic
growth, including 100 percent bonus depreciation for business
investment, immediate expensing for domestic research and development
expenses and the EBITDA-based limitation on business net interest
deductions. We urge the House to pass this bill and send it to President
Trump this week so that he can sign it into law as soon as possible.”

[American Petroleum Institute President and CEO Mike
Sommers](https://www.api.org/news-policy-and-issues/news/2025/06/28/api-applauds-senate-passage-of-tax-legislation-urges-house-to-act):
“We applaud the Senate for passing the One Big Beautiful Bill to bolster
America’s energy advantage and support economic growth. This historic
legislation will help usher in a new era of energy dominance by
unlocking opportunities for investment, opening lease sales and
expanding access to oil and natural gas development. We will continue to
work with policymakers to get this final package to President Trump’s
desk.”

[American Soybean Association President Caleb
Ragland](https://x.com/RapidResponse47/status/1940113514166993304): “ASA
applauds the Senate for its support of agriculture and the farm economy
in this legislation. Soybean growers have long championed comprehensive
revisions to the 45Z Clean Fuel Production Credit, an improved safety
net for agriculture, and increased support for research and market
expansion. The modified biofuel tax credits, enhancements to crop
insurance and support for MAP and FMD, among other agriculture
provisions included in this legislation will support U.S. farmers and
expand market opportunities domestically. ASA urges the House to
maintain these key agricultural provisions that support our rural
economies as they consider this legislation.”

[American Trucking Association SVP of Legislative Affairs Henry
Hanscom](https://www.trucking.org/news-insights/ata-applauds-senate-passage-tax-reform):
“The American Trucking Associations is grateful to Senate Republicans
for their hard work to craft a package that will guarantee tax certainty
for our nation’s trucking companies. Trucking is the backbone of our
economy, employing over 8.5 million Americans in companies that range in
size from one-truck operators and small family businesses to enterprise
carriers.  Enacting pro-business, pro-growth tax policies will ensure
that all of those companies are able to better plan for the future,
invest in their workforce and equipment, and move freight safely and
efficiently.  As the industry that moves 72% of America’s freight by
tonnage, and that is the sole source of freight services for more than
80% of American communities, ATA looks forward to President Trump
signing this measure into law as soon as possible.”

[Americans for Prosperity Chief Government Affairs Officer Brent
Gardner](https://americansforprosperity.org/press-release/afp-issues-key-vote-alert-urges-house-to-quickly-concur-with-senate-on-tax-relief-for-americans/):
“We are so close to delivering a generational win to Americans by making
pro-growth tax policy permanent. When we pass this bill, job creators
and families will have the certainty they need to invest in their
businesses and futures, reigniting the American Dream. We are encouraged
by the thoughtful and productive discussions that have brought this
legislation back to the House and urge members to pass it expeditiously
to ensure that Americans start reaping the benefits of this
transformative legislation as soon as possible … It’s time to get this
bill to the Oval Office for President Trump’s signature. We’re at the
goal line, it’s time to punch it in. Let’s fulfill all those campaign
promises and secure this victory for hardworking American taxpayers.”

[Associated Builders and Contractors VP of Government Affairs Kristen
Swearingen](https://www.abc.org/News-Media/News-Releases/abc-applauds-senate-passage-of-the-one-big-beautiful-bill):
“Tax certainty and pro-growth policies are not abstract policy goals for
construction businesses—they are the foundation that allows ABC members
to invest, grow and keep America building. We thank the Senate for
passing this important legislation and urge the U.S. House of
Representative to take swift action to send it to the president’s desk.”

[Associated Equipment Distributors President and CEO Brian P.
McGuire](https://x.com/RapidResponse47/status/1940109931295777235): “By
permanently extending and restoring pro-growth, capital investment
incentivizing tax policies, the Senate is ensuring long-term tax code
certainty that will benefit the equipment sector and the broader
economy. AED applauds Senate Majority Leader John Thune and his team for
heeding our call for tax permanence, and we urge the House to pass this
legislation and send it to the president’s desk expeditiously.”

[Association of Equipment Manufacturers SVP of Government and Industry
Relations Kip
Eideberg](https://x.com/RapidResponse47/status/1940091478186795434):
“The Association of Equipment Manufacturers applauds the U.S. Senate’s
passage of the One Big Beautiful Bill (OBBB) Act — a historic bill that
will strengthen U.S. manufacturing, providing the certainty in the tax
code necessary for equipment manufacturers to innovate, invest, and
create more family-sustaining jobs right here in America. By extending
and expanding the tax reforms from 2017, the OBBB will help equipment
manufacturers build more in America, while also bolstering our global
competitiveness. We commend Leader Thune for his leadership and
commitment to ensuring the permanence of President Trump’s pro-growth
tax reforms, and applaud the lawmakers involved in driving this effort
forward. We urge the U.S. House of Representatives to act swiftly and
send the bill to President Trump’s desk.”

[Business Roundtable CEO Joshua
Bolten](https://x.com/RapidResponse47/status/1940100846328373705):
“Today’s vote puts us on the cusp of extending and strengthening tax
reform. Business Roundtable applauds the Senate for passing the One Big
Beautiful Bill … The House now has the opportunity to send a swift,
decisive signal that America will remain a premier destination for
business to invest, hire, and grow. We urge the House to act without
delay and send the bill to President Trump’s desk by the Fourth of
July.”

[Center for Transportation Policy Executive Director Jackson
Shedelbower](https://transportpolicies.com/news-resources/ctp-applauds-senate-passage-of-air-traffic-control-modernization/):
“… it’s clear that lawmakers are united in an effort to modernize the
country’s aging air traffic control systems. The $12.5 billion that is
appropriated in both versions of the package will be a strong down
payment towards ensuring that the U.S. maintains its reputation as a
global leader in air travel. Lawmakers need to work out the remainder of
their differences so the legislation can be swiftly pushed over the
finish line.”

[CTIA—The Wireless Association President and CEO Ajit
Pai](https://www.ctia.org/news/ctia-statement-on-senate-passage-of-one-big-beautiful-bill):
“CTIA applauds the Senate for passing the One Big Beautiful Bill, which
includes a solid spectrum pipeline and smart tax provisions to support
wireless investment. Along with restoring FCC auction authority,
establishing a robust 800-megahertz pipeline of mid-band spectrum with a
specific timeframe for action is critical to meeting growing consumer
demand, securing U.S. leadership in 5G, and strengthening national and
economic security.  The bill’s targeted tax incentives will accelerate
private investment in next-generation networks and support
infrastructure deployment, job creation, and economic growth across the
country. We thank Senate leadership, including Senate Majority Leader
John Thune, Senate Commerce Committee Chairman Ted Cruz, and Senator
Marsha Blackburn for their commitment to securing America’s wireless
future, and we urge swift action to pass this legislation so President
Trump can sign it into law.”

[Concerned Veterans for America Executive Director John
Vick](https://cv4a.org/news-media/cva-celebrates-senate-passage-of-the-one-big-beautiful-bill-act):
“This legislation represents a win for American families, small
businesses, and veterans across the country―groups that form the
backbone of a thriving and resilient nation. This is a monumental moment
for Americans who believe in hard work, opportunity, and service. The
One Big Beautiful Bill Act sets the stage for lasting prosperity and a
stronger future for those who have sacrificed the most.”

[Global Business Alliance President and CEO Jonathan
Samford](https://globalbusiness.org/gba-applauds-senate-passage-of-pro-growth-one-big-beautiful-bill-act/):
“I applaud Chairman Mike Crapo, Leader John Thune and their Senate
colleagues for advancing international tax policies that keep the U.S.
the top destination for global investment. These provisions will help
sustain American jobs, drive innovation, and reinforce a stable tax
environment that attracts cross-border capital and world-class know-how.
I urge swift House action and final passage of this One Big Beautiful
Bill Act in order to secure America’s competitive edge.”

[Iowa Biodiesel Board Executive Director Grant
Kimberley](https://www.iowabiodiesel.org/the-newsroom/ibb-news-releases/iowa-biodiesel-board-applauds-senate-extension-and-clarification-of-biodiesel-tax-incentive):
“These improvements to the biomass-based diesel tax incentive come at a
pivotal moment for the industry, which has seen months of uncertainty,
stalled production and investment hesitation. Together with EPA’s
proposed increase in Renewable Fuel Standard volumes—projecting more
than 2 billion additional gallons of biomass-based diesel in 2026—the
tax developments point to a significant resurgence in clean fuel demand.
This gives us much-needed certainty for the near future.”

[Information Technology Industry Council President and CEO Jason
Oxman](https://www.itic.org/news-events/news-releases/iti-one-big-beautiful-big-is-critical-for-u-s-innovation-leadership):
“The One Big Beautiful Bill will advance President Trump’s vision of
ensuring America outpaces global competitors and remains the world’s
leader in technology. We’re pleased to see the Senate pass the
reconciliation text with strong innovation-focused language that will
empower companies to invest in America by restoring critical research
and development expensing and stimulate economic growth and high-skilled
job creation. We urge the House of Representatives to send this critical
package to President Trump as quickly as possible.”

[Job Creators Network CEO Alfredo
Ortiz](https://www.jobcreatorsnetwork.com/press_releases/job-creators-network-praises-senate-for-passing-republican-tax-cut-bill/):
“By passing this tax cut bill, Republican Senators show once again that
they are the party of Main Street. By expanding and making permanent the
Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, including restoring full, immediate expensing,
the Senate has delivered historic, pro-growth reform that can last for
generations. These tax cuts empower small business owners to invest,
hire, raise wages, and reinvest in their communities, ushering in
America’s next Golden Age. On behalf of Main Street, JCN calls on the
House to quickly pass this legislation and get it to President Trump’s
desk by July 4, giving America the best birthday present it could ask
for.”

[National Association of Home Builders Chairman Buddy
Hughes](https://x.com/NAHBhome/status/1940129473690509547): “NAHB
commends the Senate for passing the One Big Beautiful Bill Act. This
legislation will help spur economic growth and allow our members to
invest more resources in multifamily rental construction, land
development to build more single-family homes, and new equipment to
expand their businesses. In turn, this will create a better business
climate that allows builders to increase the nation’s housing supply,
which is crucial to help ease America’s housing affordability crisis. We
urge the House to move quickly to pass this bill.”

[National Association of Manufacturers President and CEO Jay
Timmons](https://nam.org/timmons-senate-scores-big-for-manufacturers-now-its-the-houses-turn-to-seal-the-championship-victory-34331/?stream=news-insights):
“The Senate just pushed the ball deep into the red zone. Now it’s the
House’s turn to finish the drive and deliver a big win for manufacturers
in America. The Senate advanced a tax package that will strengthen small
businesses, family-owned operations and manufacturing workers across the
country. It drives manufacturers closer to the goal line—growing
businesses, creating jobs and powering stronger communities. After
months of driving, months of endurance and effort, months of playing
audacious offense and tenacious defense, months of partnership between
manufacturers of every industry and our leaders in Congress and the
administration, the House now can finish the job. We call on our
partners in the House to send this bill to the president’s desk—the
strongest tax bill for manufacturers we have seen in a generation.
Because when Congress champions the 13 million people who make things in
America, manufacturing wins—and when manufacturing wins, America wins.”

[National Business Aviation Association President and CEO Ed
Bolen](https://nbaa.org/2025-press-releases/nbaa-lauds-senate-passage-of-pro-aviation-provisions-in-budget-reconciliation-bill/):
“We thank the Senate for recognizing with this initial funding that a
safe and efficient national airspace requires a robust, resilient ATC
system that bolsters our nation’s global aviation leadership. As leading
economists have found, immediate expensing helps companies and
entrepreneurs relying on business aviation have access to a critical
competitive asset, while strengthening America’s manufacturing base.
These provisions represent an important investment in an essential
American industry, and the citizens, companies and communities that
depend on it. NBAA looks forward to their continued progress.”

[National Cattlemen’s Beef Association SVP of Government Affairs Ethan
Lane](https://www.ncba.org/news-media/news/details/43443/ncba-encouraged-by-senate-passage-of-big-beautiful-bill-urges-house-action):
“The Senate version of the One Big Beautiful Bill protects family
farmers and ranchers across the country from a massive tax hike at the
end of the year, increases the Death Tax exemption, makes the Section
199A tax deduction permanent, increases the Section 179 tax deduction,
funds foreign animal disease prevention programs, and delivers so many
more wins for cattle producers … It’s time for the House to pass this
bill and send it to President Trump’s desk so he can sign it into law.”

[National Corn Growers Association President Kenneth Hartman,
Jr.](https://ncga.com/stay-informed/media/in-the-news/article/2025/07/ncga-expresses-support-for-portions-of-senate-reconciliation-bill):
“NCGA has worked closely with members of Congress as they drafted and
voted on this legislation. We are particularly pleased to see the
permanent extension of certain tax provisions, which will provide more
certainty to corn farmers around the country as they plan for the future
of their businesses.”

[National Cotton Council Chairman Patrick
Johnson](https://www.cotton.org/news/releases/2025/senate-statement-obbb.cfm):
“The NCC appreciates the momentous effort that has gone into crafting
and passing the One Big Beautiful Bill. We are grateful for the Senate’s
commitment to delivering meaningful enhancements to the cotton safety
net, which is absolutely critical for the stability and future of our
industry.”

[National Council of Farmer Cooperatives President and CEO Chuck
Conner](https://x.com/RapidResponse47/status/1940127990479753405): “We
commend the Senate for advancing permanent tax relief through the
extension of Section 199A, a key priority for farmer co-ops that ensures
they are not penalized for doing business together. Equally important
are the provisions extending Section 179 expensing and the clean fuel
production credit under Section 45Z, which provide producers and co-ops
with the incentives and tools they need to innovate, invest, and lead
the transition to a more sustainable agricultural future. We also
appreciate the Senate’s attention to the needs of production agriculture
by updating reference prices and commodity title support to reflect
today’s economic realities. Combined with a significant increase in
funding for market development programs, these provisions will help
producers reach new markets and stay competitive amid global
uncertainty. Now, it’s time for the House of Representatives to act. We
urge lawmakers to take up the Senate package without delay and send it
to the president’s desk before the July 4th recess. America’s farmers
can’t afford to wait.”

[National Council of Textile Organizations President and CEO Kim
Glas](https://ncto.org/ncto-commends-senate-for-adopting-provision-permanently-ending-de-minimis-in-budget-reconciliation-bill-today/):
“On behalf of the U.S. textile industry, I would like to commend Senate
leaders for including an important provision in the broader budget
reconciliation bill that would permanently end de minimis for commercial
shipments from all countries, effective July 2027. The Senate language
mirrors a provision included in the House reconciliation package passed
earlier in May … We are also grateful that the Trump administration has
already used executive authorities to end de minimis access for Chinese
goods—which represent approximately two-thirds of all de minimis
shipments—while also laying the groundwork to close de minimis to
commercial shipments from all countries.”

[National Foreign Trade Council VP for International Tax Policy Anne
Gordon](https://www.nftc.org/nftc-welcomes-senate-passage-of-reconciliation-bill/):
“We welcome Senate passage of the One Big Beautiful Bill … We welcome
the Senate’s decision to retain core international and business
provisions of the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act in its version of the bill, as
well as including permanent immediate expensing of research and
development and reinstating depreciation and amortization in the
interest deduction limitation. We are also pleased to see the Senate
make permanent the look-through for controlled foreign corporations and
provide other long-needed international tax fixes for U.S. corporations.
As the House considers the revised bill, we encourage swift
consideration and passage of tax legislation that incentivizes
investment, innovation, and global opportunity for America’s job
creators.”

[National Milk Producers Federation President Gregg
Doud](https://www.nmpf.org/nmpf-applauds-senate-reconciliation-dairy-provisions-urges-congress-toward-final-action/):
“Dairy farmers are grateful for legislation that will create several key
opportunities for dairy. Following last month’s successful vote in the
House, we are excited that the Senate’s legislation also positions these
investments to benefit dairy farmers and the cooperatives they own. We
hope they are enacted into law as swiftly as possible.”

[National Mining Association President and CEO Rich
Nolan](https://nma.org/2025/07/01/nma-applauds-senate-urges-house-passage-of-one-big-beautiful-bill/):
“We urge the House to quickly pass this bill, which increases the
competitiveness of the American mining industry and provides vital
incentives, including funding to counter China’s mineral dominance. The
bill also makes improperly withdrawn lands available for energy
production, which is key to supplying a reliable electric grid capable
of powering our nation’s future. Through these measures, the bill will
directly support U.S. economic growth and security. Mining feeds and
fuels virtually every American supply chain; a strong mining industry
creates an equally strong foundation for every industry that depends on
the products and energy we provide. More can be done, and the NMA will
continue to advocate with Congress and the administration on ways to
support additional domestic mining, and mineral production and
processing.”

[National Pork Producers Council President Duane
Stateler](https://nppc.org/news/us-senate-delivers-wins-for-pork-producers-in-one-big-beautiful-bill/):
“We appreciate the efforts of Agriculture Chair John Boozman and other
Senate leadership to ensure key animal health provisions were included
in the bill, along with tax and other measures important to agriculture.
Foreign animal diseases (FADs) threaten not only the livelihoods of pork
producers but also our food supply chain at large. We thank our
congressional leaders for these important steps to help keep our pork
supplies safe, secure, and affordable for American families.”

[National Restaurant Association EVP for Public Affairs Sean
Kennedy](https://x.com/WeRRestaurants/status/1940083490176880996): “This
bill includes the most important pro-growth tax policies restaurant
operators need to continue to power the national economy. The inclusion
of permanent policies for 199A qualified business income deduction, full
expensing of capital investments, and the return of depreciation and
amortization in the calculation of business interest expense will give
restaurant operators working capital to invest in their businesses and
employees. We are also pleased to see the inclusion of policies like No
Tax on Tips and Overtime that will benefit our workforce. We appreciate
the work that has gone into getting this bill through the Senate and
encourage the House to quickly pass it, sending it to the President for
signature.”

[National Roofing Contractors Association CEO McKay
Daniels](https://x.com/RapidResponse47/status/1940138695602082287):
“This legislation is critical to providing certainty for all businesses
to continue to invest in their employees and grow their companies. In
particular, the bill is a huge win for ‘main street,’ family-owned and
pass-through entities that represent 95% of all U.S. businesses and
employ the majority of private-sector workers. Without passage of this
legislation, our industry will face rising tax burdens and diminished
global competitiveness. Congress must act now to secure a stable future
for America’s job creators.”

[National Small Business Association President and CEO Todd
McCracken](https://www.nsbaadvocate.org/post/news-hr1-advances-through-senate-with-action-for-nsba-small-business-tax-priority-issues):
“NSBA applauds the Senate for passing H.R. 1, the One Big Beautiful Bill
Act which includes NSBA’s \#1 priority, permanency for the
small-business tax rate cut in the form of the 199A Qualified Business
Income deduction. Enacting this provision and several others—including
reversing a very problematic change to the R&D tax deduction—is a major
win for small business. As our nation celebrates Independence Day, I
urge the House to pass the language approved in the Senate and give
America’s small businesses the freedom and independence they need and
deserve to keep their businesses thriving.”

[National Sorghum Producers Chair Amy
France](https://sorghumgrowers.com/2025/07/01/senate-advances-trumps-one-big-beautiful-bill-with-major-agricultural-wins/):
“These are critical improvements that will help sorghum producers manage
risk, plan for the future, and stay competitive. We’re grateful to
Chairman Boozman and other leaders in the Senate Ag Committee who
ensured these priorities were part of the final bill.”

[Nuclear Energy Institute President and CEO Maria
Korsnick](https://www.nei.org/news/2025/nei-ceo-on-senate-budget-reconciliation-bill):
“We applaud the U.S. Senate for advancing policies that recognize the
important role of nuclear energy to achieve a reliable, affordable and
increasingly clean energy system. The Senate version of the budget
reconciliation bill restores the nuclear power production tax credit
through 2032, and the tax credits for new nuclear generation through
2033, with transferability retained for both. The Senate version also
preserves the viability of the Loan Program Office by extending the
program’s authority and funding from 2026 to 2028, although the
appropriation of $1B is less than available under current law.
Maintaining the tax provisions in the Senate bill will continue to
address economic hurdles and provide confidence to invest in today’s
nuclear plants, while securing long-term, well-paying jobs. Further the
bill allows us to continue down the path to achieve the Administration’s
ambitious goals for deploying new, cutting-edge nuclear technologies
that will meet the growing demand for more reliable energy.”

[Philanthropy Roundtable COO Elizabeth
McGuigan](https://www.philanthropyroundtable.org/philanthropy-roundtable-applauds-senate-passage-of-one-big-beautiful-bill-act/):
“Now more than ever, we need a strong, vibrant civil society. Government
spending is shrinking – which is a good thing – and generous Americans
are ready and willing to support causes and communities around the
country. We’re especially grateful for the leadership of President
Donald J. Trump, whose pro-growth, pro-America agenda continues to
inspire strong economic stewardship. We encourage the House to pass the
Senate bill quickly and without changes.”

[RATE Coalition Executive Director Dan
Combs](https://ratecoalition.com/rate-coalition-applauds-senate-passage-of-pro-growth-tax-legislation/):
“Today’s vote is a major win for workers, businesses, and the American
economy as a whole. By preserving the 21 percent corporate tax rate, the
Senate has reaffirmed its commitment to a competitive tax code that
drives investment, fuels job growth, and ensures the U.S. remains the
best country in the world to start and grow a business.  We applaud this
strong, pro-growth action and urge lawmakers to expeditiously finalize
the legislation and send it to President Trump’s desk without delay.”

[Small Business & Entrepreneurship Council President and CEO Karen
Kerrigan](https://sbecouncil.org/2025/07/01/sbe-council-applauds-senate-passage-of-the-one-big-beautiful-bill-act-urges-house-to-act-promptly/):
“We commend Republican Senate leaders for their tireless work in getting
the ‘One Big Beautiful Bill Act’ to this critical stage for America’s
small business owners and entrepreneurs. Their commitment to advancing
this powerful package shows incredible dedication to the success of Main
Street businesses across the country and to the future of U.S.
entrepreneurship. Now, House members must focus on the widespread gains
in the legislation for the U.S. economy, workers, families, and small
business owners. We urge the House to promptly pass the bill so it can
be signed by President Trump.”

[Steel Manufacturers
Association](https://x.com/sma_steel/status/1940090417669693882):
“Congratulations to the @SenateGOP for passing H.R. 1! The bill will
make historic investments in Americans, our workers, our communities and
our economy will all benefit.”

[The LIBRE Initiative President Daniel
Garza](https://thelibreinitiative.com/press-releases/libre-applauds-senates-advancement-of-the-trump-tax-cuts):
“We commend the Senate for passing H.R. 1 to make the Trump tax cuts
permanent—measures that have proven to deliver real benefits to
hardworking families, job creators, and entrepreneurs across the
country. For Latinos—who are starting businesses at a notable rate and
powering local economies—this bill is not just good policy, it’s
essential.  By making the low tax rates and small business provisions
permanent, this legislation helps ensure that Latino workers, small
business owners, and families can thrive with greater certainty,
flexibility, and opportunity. Tax relief allows families to keep more of
what they earn, invest in their future, and weather economic uncertainty
with confidence. We applaud the Senate for sending a clear message that
the American Dream remains alive and within reach for all—especially
those working hard to build a better life.”

[U.S. Chamber of Commerce EVP and Chief Policy Officer Neil
Bradley](https://www.uschamber.com/taxes/u-s-chamber-applauds-senate-passage-of-the-one-big-beautiful-bill-encourages-continued-advancement-without-delay):
“With today’s vote, the Senate has taken decisive action to deliver the
kind of permanent tax relief the American business community has been
calling for. The tax provisions included in this bill will not only
drive economic growth and sharpen America’s competitive edge but also
put more money in workers’ pockets, increasing prosperity in communities
across the country. The Chamber thanks Leader Thune, Chairman Crapo, and
all who are working to make the pro-growth reforms of the 2017 Tax Cuts
and Jobs Act permanent, including the deduction for domestic R&D
expenditures, 100% bonus depreciation for certain business investments,
and an expanded business interest limitation. The Chamber applauds the
Senate for voting to make these provisions permanent features of the tax
code. We urge lawmakers to swiftly pass the OBBBA and deliver it to
President Trump to be signed into law.”

[USA Rice Farmers Chair LG
Raun](https://x.com/usaricenews/status/1940087217705427377): “USA Rice
applauds the Senate for passing the OBBB Act including a historic and
critical investment in the farm safety net. We urge the House of
Representatives to take up and pass this bill with the key ag
investments before the 4th of July.”

[Wine & Spirits Wholesalers of America President and CEO Francis
Creighton](https://x.com/WSWAMedia/status/1940095688609591367): “On
behalf of the Wine & Spirits Wholesalers of America, I want to thank the
United States Senate for passing President Trump’s One Big Beautiful
Bill Act under Section 198A. This critical legislation empowers
America’s family-owned wholesalers to reinvest, compete, and thrive. We
urge the U.S. House to act swiftly and send this bill to the President’s
desk without delay.”
