---
date: '2025-07-25'
published_time: 2025-07-25 16:05:19-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/articles/2025/07/the-one-big-beautiful-bill-is-a-historic-investment-in-rural-healthcare/
tags: articles
title: The One Big Beautiful Bill is a Historic Investment in Rural Healthcare
---
 
Today’s White House
[memo](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/OBBB-Rural-Memo.1.pdf)
“The One Big Beautiful Bill is a Historic Investment in Rural
Healthcare” outlines in detail how the President’s landmark legislation
makes historic investments in vulnerable communities to ensure
healthcare options are made sustainable for Americans who rely on these
options for their care.

#### **TRANSFORMING RURAL CARE WITH HISTORIC INVESTMENTS AND RADICAL TRANSPARENCY**

The Rural Health Transformation Program will provide unprecedented new
funding to states for a range of uses designed to make rural healthcare
more effective and sustainable for the long term. Collaborating with the
Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS), states must submit
detailed rural health transformation plans on how these resources will
be put to work improving access to healthcare providers in their
communities and ultimately improving health outcomes. CMS will monitor
implementation and hold states accountable to this plan to ensure
resources are appropriately distributed and going to the most deserving,
not the most politically connected.

#### **ENSURING SUSTAINABILITY OF RURAL CARE BY ADDRESSING SYSTEMIC CHALLENGES**

Unlike smaller programs that have been traditionally the main mechanisms
to support rural care, the Rural Health Transformation Program is
uniquely designed to promote innovation and long-term sustainability of
rural healthcare.

Rural hospitals suffer from chronic challenges with extremely low
patient volume. They have both smaller bed counts than urban hospitals
and occupancy rates that are much lower (37%) than those of their urban
counterparts (62%). Therefore, when programs link funding to
reimbursements for services provided—as these legacy programs do—these
programs do not promote long-term sustainability as the overall volume
of services provided in these facilities remains low. In other words,
these programs do not actually provide hospitals with investments that
would help them sustain themselves.

Distinct from these other programs, the Rural Health Transformation
Program is designed to promote innovation in payment and flexibility.
These funds can be used to help these facilities make investments
necessary to better meet the needs of the communities they serve and
become more sustainable over the long term.

#### **HEALTH INDUSTRY PROMOTES FLAWED ANALYSES TO HIDE THE REAL POSITIVE EFFECTS OF THE ONE BIG BEAUTIFUL BILL**

Rural hospitals only receive 7% of Medicaid hospital spending. Yet,
industry leaders and lobbyists continue to cry foul, and fearmonger that
the law puts rural care facilities at risk when in actuality the OBBB
delivers historic investments into the Rural Health Transformation
Program to ensure underserved rural hospitals are strengthened, a
monumental victory that should be celebrated after years of neglect and
lack of financial support.

The disparity between urban and rural hospitals clearly shows how the
waste, fraud, and abuse that proliferated under the Biden Administration
did not benefit the most vulnerable hospitals. The OBBB aggressively
goes after that waste, fraud, and abuse by enforcing eligibility
requirements, prioritizing work over welfare, and putting Americans
first by removing non-citizens and ending financing gimmicks used to
subsidize coverage for illegal immigrants. This momentous effort to
combat waste, fraud, and abuse is what allowed Congress and the Trump
Administration to make this historic investment in rationalizing our
health care system by actually ensuring new healthcare dollars reach
facilities in vulnerable communities to help make them sustainable for
good.
