---
date: '2025-07-31'
modified_time: 2025-07-31 22:20:39-04:00
published_time: 2025-07-31 22:20:38-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/articles/2025/07/from-coast-to-coast-americans-are-seeing-the-benefits-of-president-trumps-big-beautiful-bill/
tags: articles
title: "From Coast to Coast, Americans Are Seeing the Benefits of President Trump\u2019\
  s Big Beautiful Bill"
---
 
Americans will see the benefits of President Donald J. Trump’s landmark
[One Big Beautiful Bill](https://www.whitehouse.gov/obbb) for years to
come through historic tax relief, strengthened public programs, secure
borders, military investments, and much more.

**Here is some of what is being written in local news outlets across the
country:**

**KCRG-TV (Cedar Rapids, IA):** [**Small businesses say ‘no tax on tips’
a step in the right
direction**](https://www.kcrg.com/2025/07/30/small-businesses-say-no-tax-tips-step-right-direction/)

*“Some business owners in eastern Iowa say new ‘no tax on tips’
provisions will help grow local businesses … It’s a relief some
businesses say will make a huge difference with their employees.*

*‘More money in their pocket which will mean more money in the
community,’ said Crystal Blin. Blin owns 319 social house, a bowling
alley in Independence. She said small businesses can struggle to recruit
employees against bigger companies, but no tax on tips means higher take
home pay, which could help close the gap. …*

*Some view no tax on tips as a reinvestment in their workers and a way
to offer some stability. ‘In the service industry too, you’re always
constantly worried about what that end of the year number is going to
be, and now with this we kind of have some relief with that,’ said Cora
Krueger. Krueger is the assistant general manager of Denali’s on the
River … ‘The more money we can put in our employees pockets, that means
that they can take those dollars and support our local community and
surrounding communities,’ Blin said.”*

**WENY-TV (Elmira, NY):** [**Seniors Get a Boost: What to Know about the
New Senior Tax Break Included in “One, Big, Beautiful Bill
Act”**](https://www.weny.com/story/52964007/seniors-get-a-boost-what-to-know-about-the-new-senior-tax-break-included-in-one-big-beautiful-bill-act)

*“A new tax break is heading to seniors’ wallets. It comes in the form
of a new deduction tucked into the ‘One, Big, Beautiful Bill Act,’
recently signed into law by President Donald Trump … Starting next year,
the IRS is cutting many retirees a bit more slack. Under the new law,
individuals age 65 and older can claim an additional $6,000 deduction—on
top of the existing standard senior deduction. Married couples where
both qualify? That’s a $12,000 tax break.”*

**KSTP-TV (Saint Paul, MN):** [**How the new US federal government
$1,000 ‘baby bonus’ can help
children**](https://kstp.com/kstp-news/top-news/how-the-new-u-s-federal-government-1000-baby-bonus-can-help-children/)

*“President Trump’s ‘big beautiful bill’ includes a new savings plan for
children with a one-time deposit of $1,000 from the federal government
for newborns … For new parents, it’s being called a ‘baby bonus.’ Every
baby born this year, next year, and in 2027 will get the bonus, which
parents can add to the account.”*

***The Charlotte Observer*** **(Charlotte, NC):** [**How the “Big
Beautiful Bill” boosts QSBS benefits for startup employees and
founders**](https://www.charlotteobserver.com/news/business/article310713865.html)

*“The new GOP budget legislation includes a massive win for startup
employees and founders: dramatically expanded Qualified Small Business
Stock (QSBS) benefits that could save qualifying investors from paying
28% capital gains taxes on millions of dollars in returns. The changes
increase the maximum tax exclusion from $10 million to $15 million while
allowing partial benefits after just three years instead of the current
five-year minimum.”*

**WCMH-TV (Columbus, OH):** [**Anduril, the company behind Ohio’s new
megaproject, favored in ‘Big Beautiful
Bill’**](https://www.nbc4i.com/news/local-news/columbus/anduril-the-company-behind-ohios-new-megaproject-favored-in-big-beautiful-bill/)

*“As Anduril Industries ambitiously hopes to open its central Ohio-based
drone and vehicular weapons manufacturing plant by July 2026, the
defense systems manufacturer is already securing business. Trump’s new
government spending bill allocates several billion dollars to border
security and includes favorable policies for Anduril.”*

***Anchorage Daily News*** **(Anchorage, AK):** [**Alaska has the chance
to seize prosperity with the Big Beautiful
Bill**](https://www.adn.com/opinions/2025/07/27/opinion-alaska-has-the-chance-to-seize-prosperity-with-the-big-beautiful-bill/)

*“These investments strengthen Alaska’s role in domestic energy
production and in Arctic policy. At a time when global energy markets
are uncertain and international competition is increasing, this
legislation ensures Alaska is part of the solution. It’s also worth
emphasizing that the bill doesn’t relax standards or bypass
environmental oversight. It supports development within existing
regulatory frameworks and honors Alaska’s history of balancing economic
activity with environmental responsibility.”*

***Fort Worth Star-Telegram*** **(Forth Worth, TX):** [**Trump signs
‘One Big Beautiful Bill’ into law. How much money will Texans
save?**](https://www.star-telegram.com/news/local/fort-worth/article309872925.html)

*“Right now, taxpayers can deduct up to $10,000 in state and local taxes
from their federal income tax bill. The One, Big, Beautiful Bill Act
raises that to $40,000 for 2025. The amount will go up 1% each year in
2026, 2027, 2028 and 2029. There are additional limitations for people
earning more than $500,000 a year.”*

**Startland News (Kansas City, MO):** [**KC Tech Council celebrates tax
fix in Trump’s ‘One Big Beautiful Bill’ that boosts growing
businesses**](https://www.startlandnews.com/2025/07/kc-tech-one-big-beautiful-bill/)

*“A tax fix included in the recently signed ‘One Big Beautiful Bill’ —
sprawling legislation meant to overhaul taxes in the United States —
marks a major win for Kansas City’s tech and innovation economy, said
Kara Lowe. At issue: a long-awaited change to Section 174 research and
development expensing that now allows businesses to fully and
permanently expense such investments, explained Lowe, CEO of KC Tech
Council, which championed the fix alongside TECNA (Technology Councils
of North America).”*

**WCAU-TV (Philadelphia, PA):** [**Trump’s ‘big beautiful bill’ locks in
key tax breaks for homeowners—here’s what to
know**](https://www.nbcphiladelphia.com/news/business/money-report/trumps-big-beautiful-bill-locks-in-key-tax-breaks-for-homeowners-heres-what-to-know/4231205/)

*“President Donald Trump’s tax and spending bill revives and expands
homeowner tax breaks — while making the current mortgage interest
deduction cap permanent. The $750,000 limit on deductible mortgage debt
($375,000 for single filers) had been set to expire after 2025 and
revert to the previous $1 million cap. Under the new law, that change is
off the table.*

*The bill also temporarily raises the SALT deduction cap from $10,000 to
$40,000 per household for tax years 2025 through 2029, with a phaseout
beginning at $500,000 of income in 2025. The deduction cap reverts to
$10,000 in 2030. The change could be especially impactful for homeowners
in high-tax states like New York, New Jersey and California, where
deductible state and local taxes often exceed the previous $10,000
cap.”*

***The Orange County Register*** **(Irvine, CA):** [**Big Beautiful bill
delivers win for
HSAs**](https://www.ocregister.com/2025/07/11/big-beautiful-bill-delivers-win-for-hsas/)

*“Starting Jan. 1, 2026, Americans enrolled in Bronze or Catastrophic
Affordable Care Act plans may contribute to HSAs — around 7.3 million
people who previously lacked access in 2025. The bill also allows HSA
funds to pay for direct primary care memberships — modernizing how
Americans can save for and manage health care expenses — and makes
permanent the ability of high-deductible health plans to waive the
deductible for telehealth visits.”*

**KARK-TV (Little Rock, AR): **[**New federal budget includes relief for
Arkansas farmers**](https://www.kark.com/news/state-news/new-federal-budget-includes-relief-for-arkansas-farmers/)

*“Reference prices — set federal rates that trigger support payments
when market prices drop — are one of the most relied-on tools in the
farm safety net. For Arkansas rice producers, who say they’ve been using
outdated prices from 2012, the new adjustment is expected to make a
meaningful difference in margins.*

*‘We hope that this gives us some stability and some consistency where
we can make better decisions,’ Coker said. ‘That affects everything —
labor, equipment, fertilizer — it all depends on what we can afford.’”*

***The Tennessean*** **(Nashville, TN):** [**Big Beautiful Bill includes
tax credit for school vouchers: Here’s how much, how it
works**](https://www.tennessean.com/story/news/education/2025/07/29/trump-big-beautiful-bill-federal-school-vouchers-tennessee/85315633007/)

*“As an example, if someone donates $1,000, they can later receive a
$1,000 credit on their federal tax return, so long as they itemize their
tax return and have a tax liability to apply the credit toward. That
means the federal government absorbs the cost of the scholarships,
essentially making them federal school vouchers.*

*The tax credit far outweighs the benefits of a typical tax-deductible,
charitable donation. At most, people are allowed to deduct 50% of their
adjusted gross income for charitable donations, according to the IRS. In
some cases 20% and 30% limits apply.*

*‘This is an unprecedented tax break, at the federal level,’ he said.
‘It’s just a super-sized incentive.’”*

***Antelope Valley Press*** **(Los Angeles, CA):** [**President Trump’s
Big Beautiful Bill is a step ahead for
America**](https://www.avpress.com/opinion/editorial/president-trump-s-big-beautiful-bill-is-a-step-ahead-for-america/article_d92a7421-698b-4aac-8a6c-7bc0231fa559.html)

*“President Donald Trump’s ‘Big Beautiful Bill’ is the latest political
victory in an action-packed first six months in office. The bill
restores some good governance that protects taxpayers and citizens and
is a huge boost to working families and entrepreneurs. The bill should
increase prosperity and start to slow our unsustainable growth in
government spending.”*

**MageeNews.com (Mendenhall, MS):** [**The “OBBB” Puts Americans and
Farmers
First**](https://mageenews.com/the-obbb-puts-americans-and-farmers-first/)

*“For working Americans including our farmers, ranchers and landowners,
the OBBB was and is a series of HUGE ‘wins.’ Perhaps the greatest win
was the significant tax relief delivered to all hardworking Americans.
Recognizing that ‘Farm Security is National Security,’ these wins
through the OBBB will strengthen our American producers for years – for
generations – of future farm families.”*

***The Berkeley Independent*** **(Summerville, SC):** [**529 updates in
‘One Big Beautiful Bill’ give families even more flexibility for
educational
savings**](https://www.postandcourier.com/berkeley-independent/community-news/529-updates-in-one-big-beautiful-bill-give-families-even-more-flexibility-for-educational-savings/article_26fbc125-c233-469a-8650-dcd24f6118b9.html)

*“As administrator of South Carolina’s Future Scholar 529 Plan, I’m
happy to share that the recent passage of the One Big Beautiful Bill Act
spells good news for South Carolina families who are using
tax-advantaged 529 savings plans to save for their children’s education.
The bill expands qualified uses for 529 funds, providing greater
flexibility for families and making an already effective program even
more beneficial.”*

**Agweek (Fargo, ND):** [**‘One Big Beautiful Bill’ enhances farm
program safety
net**](https://www.agweek.com/opinion/one-big-beautiful-bill-enhances-farm-program-safety-net)

*“The large reconciliation bill, or the so-called ‘One Big Beautiful
Bill,’ was passed by Congress and signed into law in early July … there
are some adjustments and enhancements in the legislation that could be
very beneficial to farmers, including increased reference prices and
improved crop insurance provisions. … Approximately 90% of the added
funding for ag-related programs in the reconciliation bill is targeted
to farm ‘safety net’ programs, such as PLC, ARC-CO, crop insurance, and
the Dairy Margin Coverage Program.”*

**Sen. Marsha Blackburn (*The Chronicle of Mt. Juliet*, Mt. Juliet,
TN):** [**One Big Beautiful Bill is a victory for American
people**](https://mainstreetmediatn.com/articles/columns-opinion-mainstreetnashville/opinion-one-big-beautiful-bill-is-a-victory-for-american-people/?pubid=chronicleofmtjuliet)

*“On Independence Day, President Trump made history. He signed into law
the One Big Beautiful Bill—a once-in-a-generation victory that fulfills
his promise to Make America Great Again. By providing the largest tax
cut in our nation’s history, it will supercharge our economy. Tennessee
households will save an average of $2,600 in taxes next year and see an
average annual take-home pay increase of over $10,000. With the
largest-ever investment in border security, it empowers the Department
of Homeland Security to complete President Trump’s border wall and hire
thousands of new Border Patrol agents. It also bolsters our military,
enacts common-sense permitting reforms to make America energy dominant
again and eliminates hundreds of billions of dollars in far-left, Green
New Deal spending, putting our nation on a more sustainable fiscal
path.”*

**Sen. Katie Britt (*The Alexander City Outlook*, Alexander City, AL):**
[**The one big beautiful bill delivers for
Alabama**](https://www.alexcityoutlook.com/opinion/guest-column-the-one-big-beautiful-bill-delivers-for-alabama/article_82f0dc61-0f9f-466a-852a-77bf176edbd5.html)

*“There’s been a lot of national conversation about how transformational
this bill is. But let’s talk about what it means for Alabama. To start,
Alabamians can expect to keep more of their hard-earned money because of
this bill. We extended President Trump’s 2017 tax cuts and, as a result,
prevented the largest tax hike in modern history. Alabama families were
staring down an average of a $2,200 tax increase—we made sure that
didn’t happen. We made sure to take care of our seniors as well, who
will now be able to deduct up to $6,000 – $12,000 for couples filing
jointly – from their taxes annually.”*

**Sen. Mike Crapo (*The Post Register*, Idaho Falls, ID):** [**A
stronger future for
Idahoans**](https://www.postregister.com/opinion/guest_column/opinion-a-stronger-future-for-idahoans/article_0f190024-173a-4cd7-a300-8bfb727d4b1f.html)

*“Responsibility to Idaho taxpayers: The law also achieves the most
significant spending reductions in history by slashing Green New Deal
spending, eliminating tax loopholes, and rooting out waste, fraud and
abuse in federal spending programs. When combined with the pro-growth
elements of President Trump’s economic agenda, the Council of Economic
Advisers estimates the United States will achieve nearly $4.5 trillion
in deficit reduction over ten 10 years.”*

**Sen. Steve Daines (*Clark Fork Valley Press*, Plains, MT):** [**Big
Beautiful Bill is a win for
Montana**](https://vp-mi.com/news/2025/jul/30/big-beautiful-bill-is-a-win-for-montana-valley-pre/)

*“President Trump’s Big Beautiful Bill is a tremendous win for Montana.
It will spur economic growth, strengthen border security as well as
expand Montana’s energy sector and provide much-needed funding for our
military. And thanks to the diligent work of the entire Montana
congressional delegation, we defeated attempts to sell our public
lands.”*

**Sen. Deb Fischer (*Syracuse Journal-Democrat*, Syracuse, NE):** [**How
the One Big, Beautiful Bill Delivers Tax Relief to Nebraska
Families**](https://www.journaldemocrat.com/how-the-one-big-beautiful-bill-delivers-tax-relief-to-nebraska-families/#close-modal)

*“When Americans went to the polls last November, they sent a clear
message. They want a government that prioritizes safer neighborhoods,
more affordable energy, and real economic relief — especially for
working families. Earlier this month, Congress responded with a tangible
solution. We stopped a $4 trillion tax hike and advanced a law that
locks in the economic policies that have helped families and small
businesses thrive. This new law cements the 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act
(TCJA) into permanent policy, preserving critical tax benefits for
families across the country. For the average Nebraska household, that
means $2,400 a year in savings — money that can help pay for groceries,
utilities, or a child’s education.”*

**Rep. Ken Calvert (*The Desert Sun*, Palm Springs, CA):** [**Tax Relief
on the way for Coachella Valley
taxpayers**](https://www.desertsun.com/story/opinion/contributors/valley-voice/2025/07/24/rep-ken-calvert-tax-relief-on-the-way-for-coachella-valley-taxpayers-opinion/85364413007/)

*“The Coachella Valley is home to a unique mix of residents, including
large populations of retired senior citizens and employees who support
the region’s tourism economy. Despite the different demographics of
these two groups, they will both see targeted benefits from the recent
working family tax law I voted to pass earlier this month. Retired
Americans who live on a fixed income rely heavily on the Social Security
and Medicare benefits. Protecting those benefits is a top priority for
our seniors – and it’s one of my top priorities, too. I promised the
seniors I represent that I would not cut their benefits, and the recent
tax and spending bill that was signed into law honors that commitment.
There are no cuts to either Social Security or Medicare benefits in the
bill.”*

**Rep. Jeff Crank (*The Colorado Springs Gazette*, Colorado Springs,
CO):** [**Why I voted in favor of the One Big, Beautiful
Bill**](https://gazette.com/opinion/guest-opinion-why-i-voted-in-favor-of-the-one-big-beautiful-bill/article_df4d1830-2626-428a-9d0f-46faefccacdf.html)

*“The One Big, Beautiful Bill, some of the most conservative legislation
worked on in Congress, delivers the largest tax cuts in American
history, ensures no tax on tips or overtime, protects Medicaid for our
nation’s most vulnerable, increases defense spending, secures our
borders and more. The bill promises a prosperous future for our country,
yet there are some who continue to promote falsehoods about what this
bill does. As the Representative for Colorado’s 5th Congressional
District, it is my duty to outline why I voted for this bill. Let’s get
this straight: the One Big, Beautiful Bill protects the Medicaid system
for the most vulnerable and those that truly need it; benefits for
pregnant women, children, seniors, and individuals with disabilities
would see no changes with their Medicaid plans.”*

**Rep. Randy Feenstra (*The Gazette*, Cedar Rapids, IA):** [**’Big
Beautiful Bill’ grows our
economy**](https://www.thegazette.com/guest-columnists/big-beautiful-bill-grows-our-economy/)

*“For farmers and small businesses, the ‘One, Big, Beautiful Bill’
protects millions of smaller operations and businesses from excessive
taxation by raising the death tax exemption. These entities also will
benefit from doubled small business expensing, immediate R & D
expensing, and deductions on qualified business income. It also
increases reference prices for corn and soybeans, strengthens crop
insurance, and fully funds foreign animal disease prevention,
mitigation, and response.”*

**Rep. Brett Guthrie (*The Owensboro Messenger and Inquirer*, Owensboro,
KY):** [**Here’s the truth: The One Big Beautiful Bill actually
strengthens
Medicaid**](https://www.messenger-inquirer.com/opinion/editorials/heres-the-truth-the-one-big-beautiful-bill-actually-strengthens-medicaid/article_0c465d29-e088-5ec4-89d3-3c98f5f98b06.html)

*“The Medicaid provisions included in the One, Big Beautiful Bill ensure
our most vulnerable Americans continue receiving the support they need.
It strengthens the program by removing deceased recipients from the
Medicaid rolls, requiring states to conduct more frequent eligibility
checks for the expansion population, ensuring that individuals are not
enrolled in multiple states and enacting commonsense work requirements
for able-bodied Americans who choose not to work. Additionally, our bill
expands access to Home and Community Based Services for low-income
seniors and individuals living with a disability.”*

**Rep. Lisa McClain (*The Detroit News*, Detroit, MI):** [**Big
Beautiful Bill is a win for
Michiganians**](https://www.detroitnews.com/story/opinion/2025/07/23/mcclain-big-beautiful-bill-is-a-win-for-michiganians/85325062007/)

*“This landmark legislation combines common-sense reforms with bold
investments in our communities. At its heart, the bill is about
rebuilding the American dream from the ground up; making it more
affordable to live, work and raise a family in Michigan. Whether you’re
running a small business, working long shifts at a restaurant or raising
kids, this bill will make your life better.”*

[**  
**](https://wausaupilotandreview.com/2025/07/21/opinion-what-the-one-big-beautiful-bill-means-for-you/)**Rep.
Tom Tiffany (*Wausau Pilot & Review*, Wausau, WI):** [**What the One Big
Beautiful Bill means for
you**](https://wausaupilotandreview.com/2025/07/21/opinion-what-the-one-big-beautiful-bill-means-for-you/)

*“The bill also raises the Child Tax Credit to $2,200 per child and
establishes a $1,000 investment account for American newborns, helping
give every child a head start. It also supports working parents by
expanding the Employer-Provided Child Care Credit, encouraging more
businesses to offer affordable child care.”*
