---
date: '2025-07-24'
modified_time: 2025-07-24 12:59:46-04:00
published_time: 2025-07-24 12:59:45-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/articles/2025/07/wide-acclaim-for-president-trumps-visionary-ai-action-plan/
tags: articles
title: "Wide Acclaim for President Trump\u2019s Visionary AI Action Plan"
---
 
Yesterday, the White House unveiled the Trump Administration’s
transformative
[strategy](https://www.whitehouse.gov/articles/2025/07/white-house-unveils-americas-ai-action-plan/)
to propel the United States into a new era of artificial intelligence
dominance. Under President Donald J. Trump’s leadership, this
groundbreaking blueprint establishes core tenets to accelerate
innovation, fortify essential infrastructure, and assert U.S. leadership
in diplomacy and security — cementing our position as the global AI
powerhouse.

As Nvidia CEO Jensen Huang [put
it](https://x.com/RapidResponse47/status/1948179224734351609):
“America’s unique advantage that no country could possibly have is
President Trump.”

**The** [**AI Action Plan**](https://www.ai.gov/) **was immediately
hailed across the technology industry:**

**[AI Innovation Association President Steve
Kinard](https://www.linkedin.com/posts/ai-innovation-association_aigov-president-trumps-ai-strategy-and-activity-7353875939115585536-LSoz):**
“President Trump’s AI Action Plan is a bold path to global American
leadership. Every American citizen, company, university and institution
has a role to play. By prioritizing American workers, free speech, and
security, it positions the U.S. to win the AI race and usher in a new
era of prosperity and strength. The AI Innovation Association stands
ready to support this initiative.”

[Alliance for the
Future](https://x.com/aftfuture/status/1948051086587441592): “The White
House just advanced a more unified national AI strategy. States with
clear, effective AI policies will be better positioned for federal
support. A strong step toward alignment, innovation, and leadership.”

[Amazon](https://x.com/amazon_policy/status/1948141237808304344):
“Amazon supports & continues to work at the state and federal level to
establish consistent standards that promote the secure, responsible
development of AI. We look forward to continued collaboration to fully
realize AI’s potential in driving economic growth & tech advancement.”

[American
Beverage](https://www.americanbeverage.org/press-releases/american-beverage-statement-on-president-trump-s-artificial-intelligence-action-plan/):
“We applaud President Trump’s action plan to ensure America’s continued
leadership in the global pursuit of artificial intelligence innovation
and infrastructure. Maintaining our edge in this technology is important
to the growth of American manufacturing and the good-paying jobs
manufacturers provide in communities across the country.”

**Chevron Corporation Chairman and CEO Mike Wirth:** “President Trump’s
American AI Action Plan is a bold and necessary step to ensure the
United States leads the next great technological revolution. As I’ve
said before, America has triumphed in every industrial era—from steel to
energy—and we have the power and leadership to do it again in artificial
intelligence. This plan recognizes that AI innovation doesn’t happen in
a vacuum—it demands reliable, scalable energy and infrastructure. By
streamlining permitting, investing in data centers, and unleashing
American energy, the President is laying the foundation for a future
where AI strengthens our economy, our national security, and our global
leadership. Chevron stands ready to help power this future.”

[American Edge Project CEO Doug
Kelly](https://americanedgeproject.org/aep-statement-on-president-trumps-ai-action-plan/):
“President Trump’s AI Action Plan is a giant leap forward in the race to
secure American leadership in artificial intelligence. By prioritizing
innovation, infrastructure, talent, and global reach, the plan confronts
key barriers to American competitiveness, begins to fill long-standing
gaps in our national strategy, and helps position the U.S. to beat China
in this high-stakes tech race … Time is of the essence: China has had a
national plan for global AI leadership since 2017, and is executing it
relentlessly with talent, infrastructure, state-backed investment, and
international influence. This is our moonshot moment. Now is the time
for the country to rally together behind a shared, national mission to
win the AI race. The stakes could not be higher.”

[American Innovators
Network](https://americaninnovatorsnetwork.com/ain-praises-white-house-leadership-on-ai/):
“The American Innovators Network (AIN), a national organization
representing American Little Tech companies, commends President Trump
and his administration for their bold and decisive action to counter
China’s growing influence in the global AI landscape. The new guidelines
and recommendations unveiled today mark a pivotal moment in securing
America’s dominance in this critical technological race, and we are
grateful for President Trump’s leadership in prioritizing policies that
empower innovation and strengthen our national competitiveness.”

[American Society of Association Executives President and CEO Michelle
Mason](https://www.asaecenter.org/about-us/news_releases/2025/ai-action-plan-positions-us-as-the-global-leader-on-transformative-technologies):
“President Trump’s Artificial Intelligence Action Plan strategically
positions the United States as a global leader in the development and
deployment of AI technology. ASAE applauds the focus on industry-driven
training programs that equip workers with the skills they need to be
successful in the workforce of tomorrow. ASAE’s members are eager to
support efforts to create these training programs, and we encourage
continued collaboration between the federal government and the
association community.”

[Americans for Prosperity Chief Government Affairs Officer Brent
Gardner](https://americansforprosperity.org/press-release/afp-applauds-white-house-directive-on-ai/):
“President Trump’s AI Action Plan will ensure America leads the world in
innovation, economic freedom, and technological progress. By removing
regulatory roadblocks, empowering innovative small business owners, and
embracing open-source development, this plan puts the ingenuity of the
American people—not bureaucrats—in the driver’s seat of the AI
revolution. This move by the White House rightly course-corrects four
years of Biden-era efforts to centrally control AI development and
stifle American innovation. We applaud the administration’s commitment
to protecting free speech and ensuring private-sector breakthroughs
aren’t halted by burdensome regulation. It’s now time for Congress to
work alongside the administration to codify these efforts in order to
create generational change that will enable AI adoption across
industries, remove permitting barriers to build infrastructure, and
unleash innovation.” 

[Anthropic](https://www.anthropic.com/news/thoughts-on-america-s-ai-action-plan):
“Today, the White House released ‘Winning the Race: America’s AI Action
Plan’—a comprehensive strategy to maintain America’s advantage in AI
development. We are encouraged by the plan’s focus on accelerating AI
infrastructure and federal adoption, as well as strengthening safety
testing and security coordination. Many of the plan’s recommendations
reflect Anthropic’s response to the Office of Science and Technology
Policy’s (OSTP) prior request for information … The alignment between
many of our recommendations and the AI Action Plan demonstrates a shared
understanding of AI’s transformative potential and the urgent actions
needed to sustain American leadership. We look forward to working with
the Administration to implement these initiatives while ensuring
appropriate attention to catastrophic risks and maintaining strong
export controls. Together, we can ensure that powerful AI systems are
developed safely in America, by American companies, reflecting American
values and interests.”

**Arm**: “We commend the Administration’s actions to unleash investment
in AI, semiconductors, and the energy to power it. Arm, together with
our partners, is working rapidly to bring AI to all forms of computing.
Today’s announcements will accelerate AI data center and cloud
infrastructure deployment in particular, while advancing plans to
promote exports of the U.S. AI stack and ensuring American technology
innovation. We look forward to continuing to work with the
Administration as it enacts and builds on today’s actions.” 

[Box CEO Aaron Levie](https://x.com/levie/status/1948046549260648589):
“America’s AI Action Plan is quite strong. It has a clear a mission to
win the AI race and accelerate the development and use of AI by removing
roadblocks or aiding adoption. Importantly, it focuses on the positive
benefits of AI, which we’re all seeing every day.”

[Business
Roundtable](https://x.com/BizRoundtable/status/1948069033300963590):
“BRT supports the @WhiteHouse AI Action Plan’s efforts to strengthen
infrastructure, advance permitting reform, invest in workforce
development and develop clear frameworks that empower US businesses to
accelerate AI innovation and adoption.”

[Business Software Alliance CEO Victoria
Espinel](https://www.bsa.org/news-events/news/bsa-white-house-ai-action-plan-helps-further-ai-adoption):
“The White House AI Action Plan offers a roadmap for the United States’
AI future anchored on the adoption of technology. The Business Software
Alliance welcomes ‘America’s AI Action Plan’ for addressing a range of
issues including talent and workforce development, infrastructure and
data, and AI governance that serve as pillars for successful AI adoption
and US competitiveness. BSA appreciates the Action Plan’s commitment to
creating the essential conditions for widespread AI adoption. The Action
Plan advances key BSA recommendations for AI talent, including
developing an AI skills curriculum, improving access to training
resources, and leveraging real-time workforce data. It emphasizes the
development of critical infrastructure and reliable energy resources
necessary to scale AI deployment. The Action Plan also reinforces the
roles of the Center for AI Standards and Innovation (CAISI) and NIST in
the development of standards and evaluation tools, a foundation for both
domestic AI governance and in promoting international collaboration on
AI. Additionally, the Action Plan streamlines government procurement
processes, enabling public-sector agencies to more effectively access
and adopt cutting-edge commercial AI solutions.”

[Center for Data Innovation Senior Policy Manager Hodan
Omaar](https://datainnovation.org/2025/07/president-trumps-ai-action-plan-meets-the-moment/):
“The AI Action Plan shows the Trump administration is serious about
winning the global AI race. It marks a clear evolution from the
President’s 2019 AI initiative and reflects just how dramatically the
global AI landscape has shifted over the past six years. The plan
rightly recognizes that beating China demands a comprehensive
effort—unleashing infrastructure to fuel model development, removing
regulatory frictions that slow development and deployment, and promoting
the export of American AI technology. These steps put the United States
on a path not only to benefit from AI today, but to remain the global
leader in the future.”

[Connected Nation Chairman and CEO Tom
Ferree](https://connectednation.org/press-releases/connected-nation-on-americas-ai-action-plan-this-is-a-moment-of-national-urgency-and-opportunity):
“This marks a transformational moment for American innovation. The
release of the National AI Action Plan signals to the world that the
United States intends not only to compete—but to lead—in the global race
for artificial intelligence. We applaud the Trump Administration’s bold
and comprehensive strategy, which rightly prioritizes accelerating
innovation, unleashing infrastructure investment, and ensuring our
nation’s AI capabilities are second to none. Connected Nation
enthusiastically supports the plan’s focus on building out data center
capacity, fast-tracking permitting, and expanding our skilled workforce.
These are critical steps toward positioning the U.S. as the undisputed
hub of next-generation computing.”

[Consumer Choice Center Head of Emerging Technology Policy James
Czerniawski](https://consumerchoicecenter.org/trump-ai-plan-unlocks-consumer-benefits-for-the-next-tech-revolution/):
“The AI Action Plan is a bold vision for the future of ensuring AI
leadership by the Trump administration. The Golden Age of America is
made possible when we position our innovators to be as successful as
possible, ensuring American consumers can benefit from the AI revolution
happening on our shores. The economy of tomorrow starts with the
building blocks laid out in this action plan. The provision which
reviews rulemaking of the Federal Trade Commission is especially
encouraging, quashing legal theories that would complicate or slow
American consumers gaining access to AI technologies. This is a world of
difference from the hostile regulatory approach of the Biden
Administration, and a welcome breath of fresh air for consumers who want
cutting-edge tech.”

[Consumer Technology Association CEO Gary
Shapiro](https://x.com/GaryShapiro/status/1948114965002375611):
“Congratulations to @POTUS and the @WhiteHouse team on an AI Action Plan
recognizing the U.S. must win the global AI race. The plan cuts red tape
for innovators, boosts AI adoption across sectors, supports a
future-focused AI workforce, and advances the American AI tech stack as
the foundation for global tech growth.”

[Data Center Coalition President Josh
Levi](https://www.datacentercoalition.org/cpages/ai-action-plan): “The
Data Center Coalition thanks President Trump for releasing Winning the
AI Race: America’s AI Action Plan—a bold framework to ensure the United
States remains the undisputed global leader in artificial intelligence.
The administration’s plan recognizes that developing a robust domestic
data center industry is vital to promoting U.S. national security,
global economic competitiveness, and continued American AI dominance …
Today’s announcement is a major step forward, and we look forward to
continuing to work with the administration and lawmakers to ensure the
U.S. remains at the forefront of global innovation and digital
resilience.”

[Dell Technologies CEO Michael
Dell](https://x.com/MichaelDell/status/1948352996435193966): “Proud to
see the White House AI Action Plan accelerating innovation, building
home‑grown AI infrastructure, and strengthening America’s security.
🇺🇸 Dell Technologies is all‑in—ready to power U.S. ingenuity, create
jobs, and keep us leading the future. 🚀”

[GE Vernova Chief Corporate Officer, Chief Sustainability Officer, and
Head of Government Affairs Roger
Martella](https://www.linkedin.com/posts/roger-martella_ai-action-plan-activity-7353905453174607873-9tiR):
“It was energizing to see the White House release its action plan today
on how the U.S. can make significant strides with leading on
\#ArtificialIntelligence and \#datacenters for the nation and its
partners, advancing strategic efforts on a most critical part of the
\#innovation economy.”

[Gecko
Robotics](https://www.linkedin.com/posts/geckorobotics_gecko-robotics-welcomes-the-al-action-plan-activity-7353866765572923393-hxL6):
“Gecko Robotics welcomes the AI action plan published by the White House
today. The United States must win the global AI race and will only do so
by using artificial intelligence to supercharge energy production
itself. At the same time, it is critical that we collect and use
high-fidelity data to feed AI models, and we remain at the forefront of
leading this charge.”

[General Catalyst Institute President Teresa
Carlson](https://www.linkedin.com/posts/teresacarlson_aiactionplan-startups-appliedai-activity-7353909961912926209-IAD6):
“Today, the Trump Administration unveiled their widely-anticipated AI
Action Plan. Upon review, I am encouraged by their pro-growth approach
that prioritizes American innovation, national security, and federal
leadership over bureaucratic barriers. This policy was not crafted in a
vacuum. It was part of an inclusive process, where earlier this year the
General Catalyst Institute submitted views on behalf of startups as to
how best deepen America’s AI leadership through transformative
technologies.”

[Heritage Foundation Center for Technology and the Human Person Acting
Director Wesley
Hodges](https://www.heritage.org/press/heritage-foundation-center-technology-applauds-white-house-ai-action-plan):
“The AI Action Plan is a call for a new industrial renaissance, an
ambitious strategy that the Administration should be commended for
leading. It charts the course for building significant domestic compute
infrastructure—from expanding energy capacity, to constructing data
centers and increasing domestic advanced semiconductor manufacturing. At
the same time, the plan also emphasizes that American AI technology must
be developed free of ideological bias, and ensure working families are
benefited and not left behind. We look forward to supporting the
administration’s work to align this technology with human flourishing.”

**IBM Chairman and CEO Arvind Krishna:** “IBM applauds the White House
for its bold and timely AI Action Plan, which prioritizes open
innovation, strengthens U.S. technological leadership, and proposes a
supportive regulatory environment for AI development and deployment. The
plan is a critical step towards harnessing AI for sustained economic
growth and national competitiveness.”

[Information Technology Industry Council President and CEO Jason
Oxman](https://www.itic.org/news-events/news-releases/iti-trump-s-ai-action-plan-ushers-in-new-era-of-u-s-ai-dominance):
“President Trump’s AI Action Plan presents a blueprint to usher in a new
era of U.S. AI dominance. The administration’s vision takes essential
steps to ensure the U.S. can win the global AI race by prioritizing U.S.
energy production and infrastructure development to power AI’s growth,
promoting U.S. AI leadership internationally by supporting the export of
the full stack of American AI technologies to partners and allies, and
accelerating adoption of AI across the public and private sectors.
Importantly, the President’s Plan includes key directives for agencies
and communicates clear U.S. policy objectives that will encourage
widespread adoption and fuel U.S. technological and economic
competitiveness. As agencies begin implementing the President’s plan, we
encourage policymakers to invest in modernizing government technology
and to leverage industry’s deep expertise to maintain America’s AI
leadership.”

[Internet Works Executive Director Peter
Chandler](https://theinternet.works/iw-statement-on-the-release-of-president-trumps-ai-action-plan/):
“As the AI race accelerates globally, it’s encouraging to see
policymakers recognize the need for bold investment in innovation,
adoption, and infrastructure.  Middle Tech companies, many of whom are
deployers and integrators of AI tools, are essential to ensuring that AI
benefits reach small businesses, everyday users, and communities across
the country. We welcome the Trump Administration’s emphasis on
modernizing our digital and energy infrastructure and expanding support
for open, responsible AI development and adoption.  To win the AI race,
we need policy frameworks that are risk-based and right-sized—supporting
trust, safety, and competition across the full tech ecosystem. Internet
Works stands ready to partner with leaders at every level to shape an AI
future that’s secure, innovative, and built for everyone.”

[Lightspeed Venture Partners Founder Ravi
Mhatre](https://lsvp.com/stories/backing-americas-ai-leadership-applauding-the-white-house-ai-action-plan/):
“In AI, you either own the frontier or get commoditized. The AI Action
Plan helps ensure that America continues to build by streamlining
regulation, identifying opportunities for AI to scale, and getting more
energy online. It will help ensure America owns the future of AI while
others still try to catch up to what we built yesterday.”

[Lumen
Technologies](https://ir.lumen.com/news/news-details/2025/Lumen-Technologies-Statement-on-Action-Plan-to-Accelerate-AI-Innovation--and-Fiber-Network-Infrastructure-Across-the-U-S--2025-D-yf09PkYJ/default.aspx):
“Lumen Technologies supports the Administration’s AI Action Plan and its
call for a unified framework to accelerate AI innovation and
next-generation fiber infrastructure deployment across the U.S. As a
leading networking services company building the digital backbone for
AI, Lumen is investing heavily to meet the demands of AI-driven
enterprises and public-sector modernization and understands the
criticality of secure, high-performance networks. We applaud the efforts
included in the plan by the FCC, OMB and OSTP that aim to reduce
regulatory barriers to innovation, modernize permitting, and streamline
the NEPA review process for critical fiber and data center
infrastructure. Winning the AI future requires clear, consistent
policies that accelerate nationwide deployment of network infrastructure
and public-private partnerships that turn this plan into reality. Lumen
stands ready to work with federal and state agencies to ensure America
leads the AI revolution.”

[Meta Chief Global Affairs Officer Joel
Kaplan](https://x.com/joel_kaplan/status/1948109809968197661): “The AI
race is about the future of US economic power & national security.
President Trump’s strong leadership on AI will help us keep our foot on
the gas. We’re in the middle of a fierce competition with China for AI
leadership. The White House’s AI Action Plan is a bold step to create
the right regulatory environment for companies like ours to invest in
America. @Meta is proud to be investing hundreds of billions of dollars
in job-creating infrastructure across the US, including state-of-the-art
data centers, creating American jobs in the process.”

**Micron Technology President and CEO Sanjay Mehrotra**: “We support the
White House’s AI Action Plan, which underscores the strategic importance
of U.S. semiconductor manufacturing as critical infrastructure for the
global AI economy. Memory is foundational to AI — powering technologies
across data centers, automotive, telecommunications, defense, and
consumer electronics. As the only U.S.-based memory manufacturer and a
technology leader, Micron is investing $200 billion in manufacturing and
R&D to create 90,000 American jobs and help ensure U.S. leadership in
the AI era through a resilient and secure supply chain.”

[National Association of Manufacturers President and CEO Jay
Timmons](https://nam.org/white-house-ai-plan-reflects-manufacturers-ai-priorities-34443/?stream=series-press-releases):
“Reflecting President Trump’s vision for the United States to lead on
artificial intelligence, the White House’s AI Action Plan underscores
what manufacturers across the country already know: AI is no longer a
future ambition—it is already central to modern manufacturing. For
years, manufacturers have been developing and deploying AI-driven
technologies—machine vision, digital twins, robotics and more—to make
shop floors safer, strengthen supply chains and drive growth.”

[National Association of Realtors EVP and Chief Advocacy Officer Shannon
McGahn](https://www.nar.realtor/newsroom/nar-supports-administrations-ai-plan-highlighting-housing-supply-potential):
“We applaud the administration’s release of Winning the AI Race:
America’s AI Action Plan, which reinforces the U.S. as a global leader
in this transformative technology. It’s especially encouraging to see
real estate infrastructure recognized as a cornerstone of America’s
future. Housing is essential to economic strength and innovation, and we
urge policymakers to apply the plan’s smart permitting strategies to
help tackle today’s housing supply crisis.”

[National Association of
Wholesaler-Distributors](https://www.naw.org/naw-applauds-trump-administrations-ai-plan-reflecting-key-industry-priorities/):
“The National Association of Wholesaler-Distributors (NAW) applauds
President Trump’s newly released AI Action Plan, which outlines a
comprehensive and forward-looking approach to federal artificial
intelligence (AI) policy. We are particularly encouraged to see several
of NAW’s recommendations—submitted during the Administration’s Request
for Information process in March—reflected in the plan … NAW looks
forward to continuing to work with the Administration to ensure the
outcomes from the Action Plan support further AI deployment and adoption
across the wholesale distribution industry.”

[National Mining Association President and CEO Rich
Nolan](https://nma.org/2025/07/23/statement-on-white-house-ai-action-plan/):
“The administration’s recognition of the importance of existing power
plants and prioritization of safeguarding them is clear acknowledgement
that the coal fleet is essential to U.S. AI leadership. For the U.S. to
guide and shape the AI revolution – and seize this tremendous
opportunity – we need a grid and energy resources capable of shouldering
the enormous new electricity demand now on our doorstep. Prioritizing
the ongoing operation of essential coal plants – with the capacity to
meet increased demand – combined with reforming our power markets around
the goal of grid stability articulated in this action plan puts us
firmly on the path for success.”

[NetChoice Director of Policy Patrick
Hedger](https://x.com/NetChoice/status/1948042668228989269): “NetChoice
applauds the White House’s AI Action Plan overall and is encouraged to
see the focus on red tape reduction and investment in America’s future.
From unleashing energy to embracing regulatory humility and ensuring our
AI systems are adopted around the world, we look forward to working with
the President to usher in the Golden Age of American innovation. The
difference between the Trump administration and Biden’s is effectively
night and day. The Biden administration did everything it could to
command and control the fledgling but critical sector. That is a failed
model, evident in the lack of a serious tech sector of any kind in the
European Union and its tendency to rush to regulate anything that moves.
The Trump AI Action Plan, by contrast, is focused on asking where the
government can help the private sector, but otherwise, get out of the
way.”

[Oil and Gas Workers
Association](https://x.com/ogwausa/status/1948179020031393847?s=46):
“President Trump’s EO for rapid buildout of data centers means more
demand for reliable, affordable natural gas. Demand = Drilling …
Drilling = Jobs … Thank you, @POTUS!”

[Palantir](https://x.com/PalantirTech/status/1948111102593610043): “AI
is the birthright of the country that harnessed the atom and put a man
on the moon. With today’s AI Action Plan, the Trump Administration has
written the source code for the next American century. Palantir is proud
to support it.”

**QTS Co-CEO Tag Greason**: “The Trump Administration’s AI Action Plan
will advance efforts to ensure the United States maintains leadership in
AI, including both technology development and critical digital
infrastructure. As the digital infrastructure leader, QTS is focused on
responsibly and sustainably building the future of our country and
economy. We continue to listen and engage with the communities we call
home with a steadfast commitment to providing job opportunities,
fostering economic growth, working with local suppliers, and operating
as trusted neighbors. This historic action and investment will directly
benefit communities where we are developing data centers for AI.”

**Salesforce Inc. President and Chief Legal Officer Sabastian Niles**:
“We welcome the Administration’s strong emphasis on AI adoption,
workforce readiness, and government modernization in today’s AI Action
Plan. Trusted AI will be a cornerstone of national competitiveness,
security, and continued American innovation.  Salesforce is committed to
helping the public and private sectors harness its full potential.”

[Siemens USA President and CEO Barbara
Humpton](https://www.linkedin.com/feed/update/urn:li:share:7353892991494750214/):
“Excited to join business leaders today for the launch of The White
House’s \#AIActionPlan boosting American leadership in \#AI and
innovation to greater heights. Every day, Siemens USA is using
\#IndustrialAI to revitalize U.S. \#manufacturing, build critical
\#infrastructure, and expand what’s humanly possible for American
workers. We’re creating a new industrial tech sector that combines the
real and digital worlds, thanks to Industrial AI, digital twins,
software-defined automation, and more. Of course, no company can truly
lead in AI without a solid foundation of trust. That’s why I was so
pleased to see a framework for accelerating innovation while maintaining
security included in the AI Action Plan. By focusing on secure
infrastructure, industrial R&D, digital transformation, and workforce
development, we can help manufacturers of all sizes join the next
AI-driven industrial revolution. It’s an exciting time for Industrial
AI, and I can’t wait to see where Siemens, our customers, and our
partners will go next with this industry-changing technology.”

[Small Business & Entrepreneurship Council President and CEO Karen
Kerrigan](https://sbecouncil.org/2025/07/23/sbe-council-praises-white-house-ai-action-plan-for-america/):
“America’s AI future is a powerful and positive one that expands
opportunities and unlocks new possibilities and industries. U.S.
entrepreneurs are the driving force behind AI innovation, and small
business owners are already benefitting from transformative AI tools.
The possibilities and opportunities are boundless, but the U.S. must
continue to lead and win the AI race. ‘America’s AI Action Plan’ lays
out a strategy to make that happen. The plan embraces America’s
innovative potential and addresses the incentives and hurdles to fully
harness innovation, including the human and physical infrastructure
required to cement U.S. leadership. SBE Council congratulates President
Trump and the White House team for developing an extraordinary AI Action
Plan, and we look forward to working with the Administration and
Congress on its implementation.”

[Society for Human Resource
Management](https://www.asaecenter.org/about-us/news_releases/2025/ai-action-plan-positions-us-as-the-global-leader-on-transformative-technologies):
“The President’s plan is not just about technology—but about people. The
emphasis is on a worker-first approach that addresses American
competitiveness in an AI-driven workforce. The plan reflects a
fundamental truth that SHRM has long championed: technology alone does
not move the workplace forward—people do.”

[Software & Information Industry Association SVP for Global Public
Policy Paul
Lekas](https://www.siia.net/siia-commends-white-house-on-the-ai-action-plan/):
“The AI Action Plan represents a meaningful strategy to support
innovation and security, strengthen U.S. competitiveness, and ensure the
benefits of AI are broadly shared. This plan provides the roadmap to
cement the United States as the global leader in AI by supporting
innovation and security, strengthening U.S. competitiveness, and
ensuring the benefits of AI are broadly shared. We’re especially
encouraged by the plan’s focus on workforce development and AI literacy
as core elements of AI infrastructure. These are key components for
building trust and ensuring all communities can participate in and
benefit from AI’s potential.”

[Special Competitive Studies Project President Ylli
Bajraktari](https://www.scsp.ai/2025/07/scsp-welcomes-white-houses-ai-action-plan-as-an-important-step-to-strengthen-americas-long-term-competitiveness/):
“Building on the foundational work of the National Security Commission
on Artificial Intelligence (NSCAI), SCSP has consistently advocated
for a comprehensive national strategy to secure America’s technological
future. This AI Action Plan provides a critical component for winning
the techno-economic competition of the 21st century. It correctly
identifies that our national security and economic prosperity, as well
as America’s global leadership position, are now intertwined with
leadership in AI. We are committed to helping transform this strategic
vision into enduring national policy.”

[TechNet CEO Linda
Moore](https://www.technet.org/media/technet-statement-on-the-trump-administrations-ai-action-plan/):
“TechNet strongly supports the administration’s AI Action Plan and is
especially grateful for their willingness to work with industry to
establish best practices. This policy framework takes critical steps
towards developing a strong domestic workforce, building critical AI
infrastructure, launching public-private partnerships, removing
regulatory barriers to innovation, strengthening the domestic AI stack,
and enhancing U.S. global AI diplomacy. The AI Action Plan makes clear
that countering Chinese influence and securing America’s leadership in
the AI race are top priorities for the United States. We look forward to
continuing to work closely with the administration on policies that
advance AI innovation while safeguarding the public interest and
ensuring America’s global AI dominance.”

[The James Madison Institute Director of National Strategy Edward
Longe](https://jamesmadison.org/statement-from-the-james-madison-institute-on-the-release-of-the-trump-administrations-ai-action-plan/):
“Trump’s AI action plan isn’t just federal policy—it’s a blueprint state
lawmakers should follow immediately to root out the regulatory creep
that’s strangling AI, even in red states.”

[U.S. Chamber of Commerce EVP and Chief Policy Officer Neil
Bradley](https://www.uschamber.com/technology/artificial-intelligence/u-s-chamber-commends-white-house-ai-action-plan):
“We applaud President Trump and his administration for issuing the AI
Action Plan to strengthen U.S. global leadership in artificial
intelligence. This forward-looking plan takes steps to accelerate
innovation by fixing a regulatory landscape hobbled by conflicting
state-level laws and activist-driven overreach, streamlining permitting
for critical AI infrastructure, ensuring reliable and affordable energy
for consumers and businesses, and advancing U.S. leadership in AI
diplomacy. These proposed actions will position the United States to
tackle our most pressing challenges and lead the global AI race by
setting the gold standard for the development and deployment of
responsible, transformative technologies. America is counting on this
crucial technology to propel economic growth for all sectors, from small
business to energy and health care, and the AI Action Plan presents a
roadmap to unlock AI’s full potential. We will work with the
administration to help implement this plan and foster a competitive,
open, and innovation-driven AI ecosystem.”

[USTelecom President and CEO Jonathan
Spalter](https://ustelecom.org/trumps-ai-strategy-gets-boost-from-broadband-industry/):
“The Trump Administration’s AI action plan is a turbo boost for American
innovation. From clearing regulatory roadblocks to reforming outdated
permitting to doubling down on security, this is the kind of bold
leadership we need to win the AI race. But even the best-engineered AI
needs a track built for speed—and that’s where fiber comes in. Fiber
broadband is the fast lane for America’s AI future: powerful, secure,
scalable, and built to go the distance, whether you’re in a big city or
a heartland town. Broadband providers are tuned up, fully fueled, and
ready to work with the Administration to help America stay a lap ahead
in the competition for AI leadership.”

[Workday VP of Corporate Affairs Chandler
Morse](https://www.linkedin.com/posts/workday_today-the-administration-unveiled-its-ai-activity-7353896889383051264-0J4p):
“Workday has long advocated for federal action that drives critical AI
innovation and builds trust. The Administration’s AI Action Plan,
announced today, seeks to avoid excessive regulatory hurdles, elevate
human potential through targeted and timely reskilling, and accelerate
AI adoption at the federal level. This sends a strong message to federal
agencies, the U.S. economy, and global stakeholders on the benefits of
driving AI competitiveness.”

[xAI](https://x.com/xai/status/1948180460951191689): “Today’s
announcement by the White House is a positive step toward removing
regulatory barriers and enabling even faster innovation for the benefit
of Americans and for humanity as a whole. We are pleased to see the
White House prioritize AI innovation.”

[Zoom Chief Global Affairs Officer Josh
Kallmer](https://www.linkedin.com/posts/josh-kallmer-9181a3a_americas-ai-action-plan-activity-7353956943746506752-OV_f?):
“Just got back from an inspiring day where I had the opportunity to be
part of the conversation around the President’s \#AI Action Plan. It was
energizing to see so many leaders across industries coming together to
talk about the future of AI in the U.S.”
