---
date: '2025-07-08'
published_time: 2025-07-08 13:27:09-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/articles/2025/07/ice-remains-undeterred-in-getting-dangerous-criminal-illegals-off-our-streets/
tags: articles
title: ICE Remains Undeterred in Getting Dangerous Criminal Illegals Off Our Streets
---
 
The brave men and women of ICE are [under
siege](https://www.foxnews.com/us/dhs-assaults-ice-now-up-nearly-700-over-same-time-last-year)
by [deranged
Democrats](https://www.foxnews.com/media/border-czar-homan-demands-democrats-stop-comparing-ice-nazis-after-officer-shot-detention-facility)
— but undeterred in their mission. Every day, these heroes put their own
lives on the line to get the worst of the worst — criminal illegal
immigrant killers, rapists, gangbangers, and other violent criminals —
off our streets and out of our neighborhoods.

**Here are a few of the sick criminal illegal immigrants they’ve
arrested in recent days:**

<figure>
<img
src="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/Andrew-DA-SILVA.jpg"
style="width:175px" decoding="async" data-fetchpriority="high"
width="290" height="388" />
</figure>

**Andrew Da Silva, a 30-year-old citizen of Brazil, was arrested by ICE
Boston.** He has convictions for second-degree child molestation and
sexual assault in Providence, RI, and is a registered sex offender.

<figure>
<img
src="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/Gerber-R.-ROSIL-Galdamez.jpg"
style="width:175px" decoding="async" width="285" height="382" />
</figure>

**Gerber R. Rosil-Galdamez, a 41-year-old citizen of Guatemala, was
arrested by ICE Buffalo.** He has a conviction for rape in Suffolk
County, NY.

<figure>
<img
src="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/Aurelio-LOPEZ-Vasquez.jpg"
style="width:175px;height:auto" decoding="async" width="251"
height="336" />
</figure>

**Aurelio Lopez-Vasquez, a 44-year-old citizen of Mexico, was arrested
by ICE Buffalo.** He has a conviction for sexual conduct against a child
in Kings County, NY.

<figure>
<img
src="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/Jesus-FLORES-Flores.jpg"
style="width:175px;height:auto" decoding="async" loading="lazy"
width="250" height="335" />
</figure>

**Jesus Flores, a 49-year-old citizen of Mexico, was arrested by ICE
Buffalo.** He has a conviction for manslaughter in the Bronx, NY.

<figure>
<img
src="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/Juan-Humberto-PEREZ.jpg"
style="width:175px" decoding="async" loading="lazy" width="273"
height="364" />
</figure>

**Juan Humberto Perez, a 56-year-old citizen of Mexico, was arrested by
ICE Chicago.** He has convictions for aggravated sexual battery and
aggravated indecent liberties with a child in Finney County, KS.

<figure>
<img
src="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/Glenda-IRAHETA.jpg"
style="width:175px;height:auto" decoding="async" loading="lazy"
width="277" height="371" />
</figure>

**Glenda Iraheta, a 29-year-old citizen of El Salvador, was arrested by
ICE Washington.** She has 21 criminal arrests and multiple criminal
convictions, including for four counts of petit larceny, violating
conditions of release, failure to appear, drug possession,
shoplifting/counterfeit goods, and petit larceny not from a person, in
Loudoun County, VA.

<figure>
<img
src="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/Sergio-SOADRI-Morales.jpg"
style="width:175px" decoding="async" loading="lazy" width="253"
height="339" />
</figure>

**Sergio Soadri Morales, a 36-year-old citizen of Mexico, was arrested
by ICE Houston.** He has a conviction for indecency with a child-contact
in Bexar County, TX.

<figure>
<img
src="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/Jonathan-Omar-CALDERON.jpg"
style="width:175px" decoding="async" loading="lazy" width="261"
height="348" />
</figure>

**Jonathan Omar Calderon, a 38-year-old citizen of Guatemala, was
arrested by ICE Los Angeles.** He has a conviction for lewd or
lascivious acts with a child under 14 in Los Angeles, CA.

<figure>
<img
src="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/Verner-Arnoldo-PEREZ-Ixcoy.jpg"
style="width:175px" decoding="async" loading="lazy" width="275"
height="369" />
</figure>

**Verner Arnoldo Perez-Ixcoy, a 31-year-old citizen of Guatemala, was
arrested by ICE San Francisco.** He has ten criminal convictions,
including for battery, exhibiting a deadly weapon, assault with a deadly
weapon, and sexual assault, in San Mateo County, CA.

<figure>
<img
src="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/Juan-Manuel-PARRA-Reyes.jpg"
style="width:175px" decoding="async" loading="lazy" width="201"
height="269" />
</figure>

**Juan Manuel Parra-Reyes, a 29-year-old citizen of Mexico, was arrested
by ICE Salt Lake City.** He has a conviction for sexual abuse of a child
in Salt Lake City, UT.

<figure>
<img
src="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/Hai-Tuan-PHAM.jpg"
style="width:175px" decoding="async" loading="lazy" width="247"
height="331" />
</figure>

**Hai Tuan Pham, a 51-year-old citizen of Vietnam, was arrested by ICE
Dallas.** He has convictions for aggravated robbery and aggravated
kidnapping with intent to commit sexual assault in Dallas County, TX.

<figure>
<img
src="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/Demir-KECO.jpg"
style="width:175px" decoding="async" loading="lazy" width="244"
height="325" />
</figure>

**Demir Keco, a 37-year-old citizen of Bosnia, was arrested by ICE
Boston.** He has convictions for accessory before aggravated assault and
battery with a dangerous weapon, illegal possession of a firearm,
illegal possession of ammunition, and operating a vehicle under the
influence of alcohol, in Boston, MA.

<figure>
<img
src="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/Selbourne-LARKIN.jpg"
style="width:175px" decoding="async" loading="lazy" width="244"
height="327" />
</figure>

**Selbourne Larkin, a 40-year-old citizen of Jamaica, was arrested by
ICE Atlanta.** He has 22 criminal arrests and 12 criminal convictions,
including for vehicular homicide and possession of a firearm by a felon
in Iredell County, NC.

<figure>
<img
src="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/Ulises-MENDOZA-Hernandez.jpg"
style="width:175px" decoding="async" loading="lazy" width="287"
height="384" />
</figure>

**Ulises Mendoza-Hernandez, a 26-year-old citizen of Mexico, was
arrested by ICE Houston.** He has a conviction for continuous family
violence in Houston, TX.

<figure>
<img
src="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/Francisco-NOYOLA-Luna.jpg"
style="width:175px" decoding="async" loading="lazy" width="257"
height="343" />
</figure>

**Francisco Noyola-Luna, a 37-year-old citizen of Mexico, was arrested
by ICE Denver.** He has a conviction for controlled substance possession
with intent to distribute fentanyl in Pueblo, CO.

<figure>
<img
src="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/Efrain-ROJO-Chavez.jpg"
style="width:175px" decoding="async" loading="lazy"
sizes="auto, (max-width: 556px) 100vw, 556px"
srcset="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/Efrain-ROJO-Chavez.jpg 556w, https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/Efrain-ROJO-Chavez.jpg?resize=448,600 448w"
width="556" height="744" />
</figure>

**Efrain Rojo-Chavez, a 38-year-old citizen of Mexico, was arrested by
ICE Houston.** He has a conviction for assault of a family member in
Houston, TX.

<figure>
<img
src="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/Jose-TORRES-Ordonez.jpg"
style="width:175px" decoding="async" loading="lazy" width="245"
height="327" />
</figure>

**Jose Torres-Ordonez, a 41-year-old citizen of Mexico, was arrested by
ICE San Antonio.** He has a conviction for assault causing bodily injury
of a family member in Austin, TX.

<figure>
<img
src="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/Alvaro-GONZALEZ-Morales.jpg"
style="width:175px" decoding="async" loading="lazy" width="238"
height="319" />
</figure>

**Alvaro Gonzalez-Morales, a 48-year-old citizen of Mexico, was arrested
by ICE Philadelphia.** He has a conviction for resisting arrest in
Lenoir City, TN.

<figure>
<img
src="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/Navor-Juan-CAYETANO.jpg"
style="width:175px" decoding="async" loading="lazy" width="225"
height="301" />
</figure>

**Navor Juan Cayetano, a 37-year-old citizen of Mexico, was arrested by
ICE San Diego.** He has convictions for assault with a deadly weapon and
robbery in Los Angeles, CA.

<figure>
<img
src="https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/07/Alejandro-CRUZ-Velasquez.jpg"
style="width:175px" decoding="async" loading="lazy" width="244"
height="327" />
</figure>

**Alejandro Cruz-Velasquez, a 30-year-old citizen of Cuba, was arrested
by ICE San Antonio.** He has a conviction for aggravated sexual assault
of a child in Austin, TX.
