---
date: '2023-12-22'
modified_time: 2023-12-22 15:53:09-05:00
published_time: 2023-12-22 15:42:31-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/blog/2023/12/22/in-2023-president-bidens-investing-in-america-agenda-delivered-results-for-american-families/
tags: blog
title: "In 2023, President\_Biden\u2019s Investing in America Agenda Delivered Results\
  \ for American\_Families"
---
 
*By Natalie Quillian, Assistant to the President and Deputy Chief of
Staff*

During his first two years in office President Biden worked with
Congressional Democrats to pass historic laws that form the basis of his
Investing in America agenda — a key pillar of Bidenomics. The American
Rescue Plan, the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, the CHIPS and Science
Act, and Inflation Reduction Act are transforming lives across the
country by lowering costs, creating good-paying jobs, revitalizing
American manufacturing, and empowering workers. This year, the President
and the entire Biden-Harris Administration have worked every day to
quickly and effectively implement these laws and invest in communities
that have too often been left behind. And we are showing Americans how
President Biden’s agenda is benefitting their communities: we deployed
Cabinet and Administration Officials across over 40 states through four
Investing in America tours, holding hundreds of events to highlight the
impact of the President’s agenda. And we launched a new website —
[invest.gov](https://invest.gov/) — where Americans can see how
President Biden’s actions are reaching their own communities.

While we have more work to do, there are many indicators of the progress
we have made this year — here are 10 of our favorites:

**Investing in America 2023 Top 10**

1\. Saved 15 million Americans $800 in 2023 on health insurance
coverage, capped insulin at $35 for seniors on Medicare, began
negotiating prices for 10 drugs, made recommended vaccines free for
Medicare and Medicaid beneficiaries, and implemented four quarters of
the inflation rebate provision of the Inflation Reduction Act, saving
some seniors hundreds of dollars per dose of medicine — all because of
the Inflation Reduction Act.

2\. Created over 210,000 new clean energy jobs since August 2022 because
of investments spurred by the Inflation Reduction Act, and 252,000
construction jobs in 2023.

3.Mobilized nearly $180 billion in private sector investments in 2023,
bringing the total private sector clean energy and manufacturing
investments to $628 billion since President Biden took office. A recent
Treasury study showed that 81% of announced investments in clean energy
projects since the Inflation Reduction Act was signed into law have been
in counties with below average wages.

<figure>
<img
src="https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/12/Blog1-1.png"
class="wp-image-90363" decoding="async" loading="lazy" width="576"
height="242" />
</figure>

4\. Far outpaced forecasts and expectations for manufacturing
construction investments in the United States, likely driven by new
projects and investments mobilized by the President’s Investing in
America agenda, including the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, the CHIPS
and Science Act, and the Inflation Reduction Act:

<figure>
<img
src="https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/12/Blog2.png?w=640"
class="wp-image-90352" decoding="async" loading="lazy"
sizes="(max-width: 1320px) 100vw, 1320px"
srcset="https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/12/Blog2.png 1320w, https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/12/Blog2.png?resize=615,346 615w, https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/12/Blog2.png?resize=768,432 768w, https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/12/Blog2.png?resize=1270,714 1270w, https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/12/Blog2.png?resize=304,171 304w, https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/12/Blog2.png?resize=608,342 608w, https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/12/Blog2.png?resize=1200,675 1200w, https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/12/Blog2.png?resize=569,320 569w, https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/12/Blog2.png?resize=1139,640 1139w, https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/12/Blog2.png?resize=1038,583 1038w"
style="aspect-ratio:1.7799442896935933;width:595px;height:auto"
width="1320" height="742" />
</figure>

Significant investments in clean power generation spurred by the
Inflation Reduction Act also led forecasters to increase their estimates
of clean power generation in the United States:

<figure>
<img
src="https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/12/Blog3.png?w=640"
class="wp-image-90354" decoding="async" loading="lazy"
sizes="(max-width: 1320px) 100vw, 1320px"
srcset="https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/12/Blog3.png 1320w, https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/12/Blog3.png?resize=615,346 615w, https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/12/Blog3.png?resize=768,432 768w, https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/12/Blog3.png?resize=1270,714 1270w, https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/12/Blog3.png?resize=304,171 304w, https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/12/Blog3.png?resize=608,342 608w, https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/12/Blog3.png?resize=1200,675 1200w, https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/12/Blog3.png?resize=569,320 569w, https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/12/Blog3.png?resize=1139,640 1139w, https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/12/Blog3.png?resize=1038,583 1038w"
width="1320" height="742" />
</figure>

5\. Announced the first potential CHIPS award to BAE Systems, Inc. in
New Hampshire, signaling a new phase of CHIPS implementation that will
continue to spur investment, shore up American supply chains, protect
national security, and create jobs.

6\. Announced over 33,000 infrastructure projects from the Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law in 2023 alone, including $30 billion for world class
rail, seven regional clean hydrogen hubs, projects that will replace
hundreds of thousands of lead pipes, and over 60 projects to improve the
electric grid, bringing the total number of announced projects to over
40,000 since the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law was signed into law.

7\. Workers across industries — particularly union workers — won
historic wage gains, including a 30% raise for UAW workers at the Big
Three, an up to 55% raise for Teamsters workers at UPS, a 32% raise for
Culinary workers in Las Vegas, and a 21% raise for Kaiser Permanente
health care workers.

8\. The White House launched five Workforce Hubs across the country to
build pipelines to good jobs in areas that have seen concentrations of
public and private investments spurred by the Investing in America
agenda. The First Lady traveled to Workforce Hubs across the country to
highlight the investments secured from employers, community colleges,
unions, and local leaders to create new workforce pipelines, including
commitments to train tens of thousands of workers in construction
trades, new semiconductor manufacturing credentialing programs, and new
and expanded registered apprenticeship programs.

9\. Launched the American Climate Corps to mobilize a new, diverse
generation of clean energy, conservation, and resilience workers. Saw
interest from over 40K people — the majority of whom were under 35 years
old — in just the first few weeks after launching the initiative.

10\. Enrolled 7 million households in the Affordable Connectivity
Program in 2023, bringing total enrollment in the program to over 22
million households — saving families between $30 and $75 per month on
their internet bills over the last year.

\###
