---
date: '2023-12-11'
modified_time: 2023-12-11 10:21:12-05:00
published_time: 2023-12-11 10:30:00-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/blog/2023/12/11/full-charge-the-economics-of-building-a-national-ev-charging-network/
tags: blog
title: "Full Charge: The Economics of Building a National EV Charging\_Network"
---
 
*Heather Boushey, Chief Economist, Investing in America Cabinet*

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The President’s [modern American industrial
strategy](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/07/14/the-economics-of-investing-in-america/)
seeks to address market failures that prevent the U.S. economy from
serving the nation’s economic and national security needs, including by
building a clean energy economy. Transportation accounts for the largest
share of U.S. greenhouse gas emissions ([about a
third](https://www.epa.gov/ghgemissions/sources-greenhouse-gas-emissions)),
with most transportation emissions coming from light-duty vehicles—the
cars, small trucks, and vans that many of us drive. Meeting the
President’s goal of [net zero emissions by
2050](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/04/20/fact-sheet-president-biden-to-catalyze-global-climate-action-through-the-major-economies-forum-on-energy-and-climate/)
will require large-scale adoption of electric vehicles (EVs), which can
produce fewer—or zero—emissions.   

The U.S. consumer market for EVs is rapidly
[growing](https://www.bts.gov/content/gasoline-hybrid-and-electric-vehicle-sales).
In the third quarter of 2023, EV and hybrid sales amounted to [18
percent](https://www.eia.gov/todayinenergy/detail.php?id=61004) of U.S.
light duty vehicle sales; over the year, Americans bought [one
million](https://www.cnn.com/2023/12/06/business/americans-bought-1-million-electric-this-year/index.html)
fully electric vehicles, a new record. President Biden is supporting
this growing demand by setting ambitious goals for accelerating the EV
transition through his Investing in America agenda. Through the
Inflation Reduction Act, he has worked with Congress to lower the price
of new and used EVs by thousands of dollars and to incentivize American
EV and battery manufacturing, attracting more than [$152
*billion*](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/invest/?utm_source=invest.gov) of
investment into the sector since taking office.

Market research indicates that overall consumer satisfaction with
electric vehicles is very high. In fact, [80
percent](https://www.jdpower.com/sites/default/files/file/2021-01/2021005%20U.S.%20EVX%20Ownership_0.pdf)
of EV owners are likely to buy an EV again based on ease of charging at
home, driving enjoyment, vehicle quality and reliability, and the low
cost of ownership. Still,
[survey](https://www.consumerreports.org/cars/hybrids-evs/cr-survey-shows-strong-interest-in-evs-a1481807376/)
[data](https://www.mckinsey.com/industries/automotive-and-assembly/our-insights/charging-ahead-electric-vehicle-infrastructure-demand)
reveal that lack of public charging availability is one of the main
reasons causing people not to consider an EV for their next vehicle
purchase. Other related issues include concerns about how far EVs can
drive on a charge, about whether chargers will be available and working,
and about the amount of time it takes to charge.
[Economic](https://scholar.harvard.edu/sites/scholar.harvard.edu/files/stock/files/cole-droste-knittel-li-stock_policies_for_electrifying_ldvs_aeapp_2023.pdf)
[research](https://www.journals.uchicago.edu/doi/pdf/10.1086/689702)
indicates that investing in an extensive EV charging network that
supports a variety of EV models is a relatively cost-effective way to
overcome the market failures limiting EV adoption. To this end, the
President has invested [$7.5
billion](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/02/15/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-new-standards-and-major-progress-for-a-made-in-america-national-network-of-electric-vehicle-chargers/)
from his Bipartisan Infrastructure Law towards building a national
network of EV chargers.

The Administration’s approach to public investment in EV charging
provides a case study for how Bidenomics is delivering for Americans by
making smart public investments that attract private sector investment,
supporting fair competition, and encouraging a domestic industry
that supports good, union jobs.

## **Making Strategic Public Investments**

The root of the charging network challenge is a classic [market
failure](https://www.journals.uchicago.edu/doi/pdf/10.1086/689702): the
“which comes first” (“chicken or egg”) problem. On one hand, consumers
are wary of buying EVs without enough charging infrastructure to support
them, limiting demand. On the other hand, firms are reluctant to invest
in charging infrastructure without enough EVs to support that
investment, limiting supply. Even though empirical
[research](https://www.journals.uchicago.edu/doi/pdf/10.1086/689702)
shows that there are increasing returns and positive feedback loops with
respect to both EV demand and EV charger investment, no single market
actor has sufficient incentive to build out a national charging network
at a pace that meets our climate goals. For this reason, according to
[one
analysis](https://scholar.harvard.edu/sites/scholar.harvard.edu/files/stock/files/cole-droste-knittel-li-stock_policies_for_electrifying_ldvs_aeapp_2023.pdf),
public investment in EV chargers is a cost-effective way to increase EV
adoption.
[Research](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/abs/pii/S1361920916000407)
on Norway’s EV incentives suggests that policies that increase access to
charging stations may be among the best policies to increase EV sales. 

President Biden’s Investing in America agenda is making [public
investments](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/07/14/the-economics-of-investing-in-america/)
to harness the benefits that come from a strong network of EV chargers.
President Biden has committed to building a national network of at least
500,000 public chargers by 2030. To this end, the Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law invests [$7.5
billion](https://www.transportation.gov/briefing-room/president-biden-us-department-transportation-releases-toolkit-help-rural-communities)
in EV charging, $5 billion of which is for building a “backbone” of
high-speed chargers spaced no less than every 50 miles along America’s
major roads, freeways, and interstates through the [National Electric
Vehicle
Infrastructure](https://www.transportation.gov/briefing-room/president-biden-usdot-and-usdoe-announce-5-billion-over-five-years-national-ev)
(NEVI) program. The remaining $2.5 billion is for [competitive
grants](https://www.fhwa.dot.gov/environment/cfi/) to states and
localities to fill gaps along charging corridors and to provide
convenient, accessible charging where people live, work, and shop
through the Charging and Fueling Infrastructure (CFI) program. The
President also secured a [tax
credit](https://afdc.energy.gov/laws/10513) in the Inflation Reduction
Act to make it more affordable for individuals and businesses to install
chargers for personal, employee, commercial, or customer use.

Implementation is already underway. All 50 states plus Puerto Rico and
the District of Columbia have developed [detailed
plans](https://driveelectric.gov/state-plans/) for building the
necessary infrastructure in their jurisdictions, and [many
states](https://www.texastribune.org/2022/09/27/texas-electric-vehicle-charging-stations/)
[have](https://www.penndot.pa.gov/ProjectAndPrograms/Planning/EVs/Pages/NEVI.aspx)
[begun](https://vtrans.vermont.gov/planning/nevi) issuing proposals or
awarded contracts for installing NEVI-funded chargers. Ohio has now
announced the opening of the first charging station funded through the
NEVI program, Vermont, Pennsylvania, and Maine have broken ground on new
stations, and additional activity is expected in several other states in
the coming weeks.

## **Supporting Fair Competition**

President Biden has implemented proactive policies to ensure that the
future U.S. EV charging market is competitive and fair. A problem with
the current EV charging network is that there are [multiple types of
chargers and
plugs](https://afdc.energy.gov/fuels/electricity_infrastructure.html) in
use, meaning that certain chargers work only with specific EV models. As
a result, EV owners cannot tap into the full network of public chargers
that already exists. A recent
[analysis](https://www.mit.edu/~lijing/documents/papers/li_evcompatibility.pdf)
found that between 2011 and 2015, consumers suffered a loss valued at
$400 million due to the lack of a common charging standard. Since 2015
the loss has likely only grown in magnitude, as the EV and charging
markets have continued to expand without resolution of the
incompatibility.

To tackle this problem, the Biden-Harris Administration established
minimum standards for all EV chargers funded through certain federal
programs, which also make sure that these standards embody the best
technologies. These minimum standards for the NEVI and CFI programs
require fast charging stations to support the widely-used Combined
Charging System, while providing flexibility for chargers to support the
Tesla-developed North American Charging Standard, which is rapidly
increasing in popularity. The Administration’s minimum charging
standards also require charging pricing to be transparent and for
chargers be available and working when people need them. 

To help ensure that chargers are reliable while creating good jobs for
American workers, electricians who install and maintain chargers must be
certified through the [Electric Vehicle Infrastructure Training
Program](https://evitp.org/). Through the Administration’s
Infrastructure Talent Pipeline Challenge, the International Brotherhood
of Electrical Workers has already trained about [20,000
individuals](https://www.ibew.org/articles/23ElectricalWorker/EW2304/Politics.0423.html)
to install EV chargers across the country.

## **Crowding in Private Investment and Creating Good Jobs**

The Bipartisan Infrastructure Law provides a down payment on
establishing a nationwide EV charging network. It is designed to
incentivize private investment in combination with the Inflation
Reduction Act’s tax credits.

A recent study from the National Renewable Energy Lab estimated that in
order to meet anticipated charging needs by 2030, a cumulative
investment of between [$31 and $55
billion](https://www.nrel.gov/docs/fy23osti/85654.pdf) for about 1.2
million publicly accessible charging units will be required (on top of
about 28 million home charging units). As of March 2023, more than $25
billion had already been announced, putting the United States well on
track to meet these investment needs. Additionally, seven major
automakers
[announced](https://www.nytimes.com/2023/07/26/business/energy-environment/electric-vehicles-fast-chargers-automakers.html)
a new cooperative effort earlier this year to build 30,000 new chargers
starting next summer, drastically increasing the total number of public
EV chargers (Figure 1). As of December 2023, the United States has more
than [165,000 public charging
ports](https://driveelectric.gov/stations)—since the start of the Biden
Administration, the number of publicly available fast charging ports has
increased by more than 70 percent.

All charging infrastructure eligible for Bipartisan Infrastructure Law
grants [must be manufactured in
America](https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2023/02/21/2023-03498/waiver-of-buy-america-requirements-for-electric-vehicle-chargers),
using domestically produced iron and steel. Starting in July 2024,
chargers funded by federal money will also need to source the majority
of their components [from American
manufacturers](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/02/15/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-new-standards-and-major-progress-for-a-made-in-america-national-network-of-electric-vehicle-chargers/#:~:text=Beginning%20July%201%2C%202024%2C%20FHWA,out%20of%20this%20new%20industry.).
Phasing in these requirements over a limited time both accelerates
growth of American manufacturing capacity for these chargers and gives
manufacturers reasonable time to reorient supply chains and construct
needed facilities.

Just three years ago, there was almost no U.S.-based production of fast
chargers; now there are at least 26 firms manufacturing these products
within the United States. Since President Biden took office, [at least
40 U.S. based facilities](https://www.energy.gov/invest) to produce EV
chargers have been announced or opened. As of September 2023, these
facilities now have the capacity to produce [more than a million
charging stations](https://www.energy.gov/invest) each year—including
60,000 fast chargers.

These investments create good jobs in manufacturing for American workers
and support the jobs of the additional [130,000
Americans](https://www.energy.gov/sites/default/files/2023-06/2023%20USEER%20REPORT-v2.pdf)
who are already working in jobs related to EVs by building out charging
capacity.

<figure>
<img
src="https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/12/figure1.png?w=640"
class="wp-image-89319" decoding="async" loading="lazy"
sizes="(max-width: 2146px) 100vw, 2146px"
srcset="https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/12/figure1.png 2146w, https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/12/figure1.png?resize=615,386 615w, https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/12/figure1.png?resize=768,482 768w, https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/12/figure1.png?resize=1270,797 1270w, https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/12/figure1.png?resize=1536,963 1536w, https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/12/figure1.png?resize=2048,1285 2048w, https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/12/figure1.png?resize=510,320 510w, https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/12/figure1.png?resize=1020,640 1020w, https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/12/figure1.png?resize=2041,1280 2041w, https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/12/figure1.png?resize=1038,651 1038w"
width="2146" height="1346" />
</figure>

## **Conclusion**

Publicly accessible EV chargers will play a key role in enabling the
United States to meet its climate goals by accelerating consumer EV
adoption. The benefits of these investments will be amplified by
complementary investments through the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law and
Inflation Reduction Act. For example, through the Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law, the Administration is investing in establishing
clean, modernized power grids across the country, while the Inflation
Reduction Act gives the Department of Energy funds to move towards
generating more electricity from clean sources. These investments will
lower the emissions produced in order to generate a given amount of
electricity. The tax incentives in the Inflation Reduction Act also
lower the cost of purchasing an electric vehicle at the point-of-sale
and facilitate the installation of personal EV chargers.

This approach—implementing a complementary set of investments to address
market failures across an industry—is a case study of how President’s
economic strategy works for American businesses, consumers, and workers,
by making smart investments that attract private sector investment,
supporting high-quality jobs, and ensuring that markets are fair and
competitive.
