---
date: '2023-12-14'
modified_time: 2023-12-14 12:51:08-05:00
published_time: 2023-12-14 10:18:11-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/blog/2023/12/14/delivering-on-the-promise-of-ai-to-improve-health-outcomes/
tags: blog
title: "Delivering on the Promise of AI to Improve Health\_Outcomes"
---
 
*Lael Brainard, National Economic Advisor  
Neera Tanden, Domestic Policy Advisor  
Arati Prabhakar, Director of the Office of Science and Technology
Policy*

------------------------------------------------------------------------

As President Biden has said, artificial intelligence (AI) holds
tremendous promise and potential peril. In few domains is this truer
than healthcare. The President has made clear, [including by signing a
landmark Executive Order on October
30](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/10/30/executive-order-on-the-safe-secure-and-trustworthy-development-and-use-of-artificial-intelligence/),
that the entire Biden-Harris Administration is committed to placing the
highest urgency on governing the development and use of AI safely and
responsibly to drive improved health outcomes for Americans while
safeguarding their security and privacy.

The Administration is pulling every lever it has to advance responsible
AI in health-related fields. We cannot achieve the bold vision the
President has laid out for the country with U.S. government action,
alone.

That’s why we are excited that in response to the Administration’s
leadership, leading healthcare providers and payers have today announced
voluntary commitments on the safe, secure, and trustworthy use and
purchase and use of AI in healthcare. These voluntary commitments build
on ongoing work by the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS),
the AI Executive Order, and earlier commitments that the White House
received from 15 leading AI companies to develop models responsibly. All
told, 28 providers and payers have joined today’s commitments: Allina
Health, Bassett Healthcare Network, Boston Children’s Hospital, Curai
Health, CVS Health, Devoted Health, Duke Health, Emory Healthcare,
Endeavor Health, Fairview Health Systems, Geisinger, Hackensack
Meridian, HealthFirst (Florida), Houston Methodist, John Muir Health,
Keck Medicine, Main Line Health, Mass General Brigham, Medical
University of South Carolina Health, Oscar, OSF HealthCare, Premera Blue
Cross, Rush University System for Health, Sanford Health, Tufts
Medicine, UC San Diego Health, UC Davis Health, and WellSpan Health.

The commitments received today will serve to align industry action on AI
around the “FAVES” principles—that AI should lead to healthcare outcomes
that are Fair, Appropriate, Valid, Effective, and Safe. Under these
priciples, the companies commit to inform users whenever they receive
content that is largely AI-generated and not reviewed or edited by
people. They will adhere to a risk management framework for using
applications powered by foundation models—one by which they will monitor
and address harms that applications might cause. At the same time, they
pledge to investigating and developing valuable uses of AI responsibly,
including developing solutions that advance health equity, expand access
to care, make care affordable, coordinate care to improve outcomes,
reduce clinician burnout, and otherwise improve the experience of
patients.

We must remain vigilant to realize the promise of AI for improving
health outcomes.  Healthcare is an essential service for all Americans,
and quality care sometimes makes the difference between life and death.
Without appropriate testing, risk mitigations, and human oversight,
AI-enabled tools used for clinical decisions can make errors that are
costly at best—and dangerous at worst. Absent proper oversight,
diagnoses by AI can be biased by gender or race, especially when AI is
not trained on data representing the population it is being used treat.
Additionally, AI’s ability to collect large volumes of data—and infer
new information from disparate datapoints—could create privacy risks for
patients. All these risks are vital to address.

Yet at the same time—so long as we *can* mitigate these risks—AI carries
enormous potential to benefit patients, doctors, and hospital staff. By
one
[estimate](https://www.healthcaredive.com/news/artificial-intelligence-healthcare-savings-harvard-mckinsey-report/641163/),
AI’s broader adoption could help doctors and health care workers deliver
higher-quality, more empathetic care to patients in communities across
the country while cutting healthcare costs by hundreds of billions of
dollars annually. It could also help patients make more informed health
choices by better understanding their health conditions and needs. While
widespread AI adoption throughout the healthcare sector is a long way
off, it is clear, that AI has the potential to positively impact
healthcare outcomes and the lives of doctors and patients in myriad
ways.

Consider some examples. Each year, hospitals produce massive numbers of
medical images—[3.6
billion](https://www.aha.org/aha-center-health-innovation-market-scan/2023-05-09-how-ai-improving-diagnostics-decision-making-and-care)
worldwide. AI is helping doctors analyze images more quickly and
effectively, seeking signs of breast cancer, lung nodules, and many
other conditions to reach more people with early detection than has
previously been possible. Today, developing new drugs takes years and
[costs](https://www.google.com/url?sa=t&rct=j&q=&esrc=s&source=web&cd=&cad=rja&uact=8&ved=2ahUKEwiX_tiA_IiDAxXMv4kEHXODBvMQFnoECCQQAQ&url=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.genengnews.com%2Fgen-edge%2Fthe-unbearable-cost-of-drug-development-deloitte-report-shows-15-jump-in-rd-to-2-3-billion%2F&usg=AOvVaw14EP6npq43DKdDEyRxOSbD&opi=89978449)
over $2 billion on average. AI is streamlining development with its
ability to match drug targets with new molecules that can treat and cure
diseases, saving time and money—and translating to cheaper, better care
for patients. Clinician burnout is another big challenge. On average,
for every patient they see, hospital staff [must fill
out](https://www.mckinsey.com/industries/healthcare/our-insights/tackling-healthcares-biggest-burdens-with-generative-ai)
over a dozen forms. New generative AI applications [can
extract](https://itrexgroup.com/blog/top-generative-ai-in-healthcare-use-cases/)
data from patients’ medical records, populate it instantly into forms,
record notes from patient sessions, and speed and improve patient
communications.

To understand AI uses like these, and the risk-mitigation measures
needed to realize them safely, the Biden-Harris Administration has
engaged with healthcare providers, payers, academia, civil society, and
other stakeholders throughout the sector. In these engagements,
stakeholders have consistently stressed the need to deepen awareness and
understanding of AI’s benefits and risks for healthcare—and to put
questions of equity and accessibility of care front and center
throughout these conversations.

Engagements like these have directly informed the Administration’s
approach. In the President’s October AI Executive Order, he tasked  the
Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) with a wide range of
actions to advance safe, secure, and trustworthy AI. These actions
include developing frameworks, policies, and potential regulatory
actions for responsible AI deployment. The Order also directs HHS to
launch a new program to document AI-related safety incidents, prioritize
grants supporting innovation in underserved communities, and work to
ensure compliance with nondiscrimination laws by AI deployers in
healthcare. Actions like these build on important work already underway
at HHS—such as the agency’s recent rule on transparency for AI in
electronic health records and the Food and Drug Administration’s
authorization of nearly 700 AI-enabled medical devices.

The private-sector commitments announced today are a critical step in
our whole-of-society effort to advance AI for the health and wellbeing
of Americans. These 28 providers and payers have stepped up, and we hope
more will join these commitments in the weeks ahead.

\###
