---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-04-28'
modified_time: 2021-09-22 17:42:06-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/04/28/fact-sheet-the-american-families-plan/
published_time: 2021-04-28 05:00:00-04:00
title: "FACT SHEET: The American Families\_Plan"
---
 
Today, President Biden announced the American Families Plan, an
investment in our kids, our families, and our economic future.  
  
In March, the President signed into law the American Rescue Plan, which
continues to provide immediate relief to American families and
communities. Approximately [161 million
payments](https://www.irs.gov/newsroom/two-million-more-economic-impact-payments-disbursed-under-the-american-rescue-plan-total-reaches-approximately-161-million-as-payments-continue) of
up to $1,400 per person have gone out to households, schools are
reopening, and 100 percent of Americans ages 16 and older are now
eligible for a COVID-19 vaccine. The Rescue Plan is projected to lift
more than five million children out of poverty this year, cutting child
poverty by more than half. While too many Americans are still out of
work, we are seeing encouraging signs in the labor market, as businesses
begin to rehire and some of the hardest hit sectors begin to reopen.  
  
But the President knows that we need to do more. It is not enough to
restore where we were prior to the pandemic. We need to build a stronger
economy that does not leave anyone behind – we need to build back
better. President Biden knows a strong middle class is the backbone of
America. He knows it should be easier for American families to break
into the middle class, and easier to stay in the middle class. He knows
that we need to continue to enable those who dropped out of the
workforce – particularly the approximately two million women who left
due to COVID – to rejoin and stay in the workforce. And, he knows that,
unlike in past decades, policies to make life easier for American
families must focus on bringing everyone along: inclusive of gender,
race, or place of residence – urban, suburban, or rural.  
  
The American Jobs Plan and the American Families Plan are
once-in-a-generation investments in our nation’s future.  The American
Jobs Plan will create millions of good jobs, rebuild our country’s
physical infrastructure and workforce, and spark innovation and
manufacturing here at home. The American Families Plan is an investment
in our children and our families—helping families cover the basic
expenses that so many struggle with now, lowering health insurance
premiums, and continuing the American Rescue Plan’s historic reductions
in child poverty. Together, these plans reinvest in the future of the
American economy and American workers, and will help us out-compete
China and other countries around the world.  
  
To grow the middle class, expand the benefits of economic growth to all
Americans, and leave the United States more competitive, President
Biden’s American Families Plan will:

-   **<span style="text-decoration: underline">Add at least four years
    of free education.</span>** Investing in education is a down payment
    on the future of America. As access to high school became more
    widely available at the turn of the 20th Century, it made us the
    best-educated and best-prepared nation in the world. But everyone
    knows that 13 years is not enough today. The American Families Plan
    will make transformational investments from early childhood to
    postsecondary education so that all children and young people are
    able to grow, learn, and gain the skills they need to succeed. It
    will provide universal, high quality preschool to all three- and
    four- year-olds. It will provide Americans two years of free
    community college. It will invest in making college more affordable
    for low- and middle-income students, including students at
    Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs), Tribal
    Colleges and Universities (TCUs), and institutions such as
    Hispanic-serving institutions, Asian American and Native American
    Pacific Islander-serving institutions, and other minority-serving
    institutions (MSIs). And, it will invest in our teachers as well as
    our students, improving teacher training and support so that our
    schools become engines of growth at every level.  
     
-   **<u>Provide direct support to children and families.</u>** Our
    nation is strongest when everyone has the opportunity to join the
    workforce and contribute to the economy. But many workers struggle
    to both hold a full-time job and care for themselves and their
    families. The American Families Plan will provide direct support to
    families to ensure that low- and middle-income families spend no
    more than seven percent of their income on child care, and that the
    child care they access is of high-quality. It will also provide
    direct support to workers and families by creating a national
    comprehensive paid family and medical leave program that will bring
    America in line with competitor nations that offer paid leave
    programs. The program will allow people to manage their health and
    the health of their families. And, it will provide critical
    nutrition assistance to families who need it most and expand access
    to healthy meals to our nation’s students – dramatically reducing
    childhood hunger.  
     
-   **<u>Extend tax cuts for families with children and American
    workers</u>. **While the American Rescue Plan provided meaningful
    relief for hundreds of millions of Americans, too many families and
    workers feel the squeeze of too-low wages and the high costs of
    meeting their basic needs and their aspirations. At the same time,
    the wealthiest Americans continue to get further and further ahead.
    The American Families Plan will extend key tax cuts in the American
    Rescue Plan that benefit lower- and middle-income workers and
    families, including the Child Tax Credit, the Earned Income Tax
    Credit, and the Child and Dependent Care Tax Credit. In addition to
    making it easier for families to make ends meet, tax credits for
    working families have been shown to boost child academic and
    economic performance over time. The American Families Plan will also
    extend the expanded health insurance tax credits in the American
    Rescue Plan. These credits are providing premium relief that is
    lowering health insurance costs by an average of $50 per person per
    month for nine million people, and will enable four million
    uninsured people to gain coverage. 

Leading economic research has shown that the investments proposed in the
American Families Plan will yield significant economic returns –
boosting productivity and economic growth, producing a larger, more
productive, and healthier workforce on a sustained basis, and generating
savings to states and the federal
government. [Evidence](https://www.nber.org/papers/w22993) shows that a
dollar invested in high-quality early childhood programs for low-income
children will result in up to $7.30 in benefits, including increased
wages, improved health, and reduced crime. Parental paid leave has been
shown to keep mothers in the workforce, increasing labor force
participation and boosting economic growth. And, sustained tax credits
for families with children have been found to yield a lifetime of
benefits, ranging from higher educational attainment to higher lifetime
earnings  
  
In all, the American Families Plan includes $1.8 trillion in investments
and tax credits for American families and children over ten years. It
consists of about $1 trillion in investments and $800 billion in tax
cuts for American families and workers. Alongside the American Families
Plan, the President will be proposing a set of measures to make sure
that the wealthiest Americans pay their share in taxes, while ensuring
that no one making $400,000 per year or less will see their taxes go up.
When combined with President Biden’s American Jobs Plan, this
legislation will be fully paid for over 15 years, and will reduce
deficits over the long term.    
  
**<span style="text-decoration: underline">ADD AT LEAST FOUR YEARS OF
FREE PUBLIC EDUCATION, CLOSE EQUITY GAPS, AND MAKE COLLEGE MORE
AFFORDABLE</span>**

Early in the 20th century, the expansion of access to free public high
school in the United States set a new global standard. Direct public
investment in our children’s future propelled U.S. economic growth and
enhanced our global competitiveness. Now, mounting evidence suggests
that 13 years of school is no longer sufficient to prepare our students
for success in today’s economy. Research tells us that we must invest
early to support our children’s development and readiness for academic
success; our transforming economy requires that we provide every student
the opportunity to obtain a postsecondary degree or certificate.   
  
That is why the American Families Plan calls for an additional four
years of free, public education for our nation’s children. Specifically,
President Biden is calling for $200 billion for free universal
pre-school for all three- and four-year-olds and $109 billion for two
years of free community college so that every student has the ability to
obtain a degree or certificate. In addition, he is calling for an
approximately $85 billion investment in Pell Grants, which would help
students seeking a certificate or a two- or four-year degree.
Recognizing that access to postsecondary education is not enough, the
American Families Plan includes $62 billion to invest in evidence-based
strategies to strengthen completion and retention rates at community
colleges and institutions that serve students from our most
disadvantaged communities. This is alongside a $46 billion investment in
HBCUs, TCUs, and MSIs. President Biden is also calling for $9 billion to
train, equip and diversify American teachers in order to ensure that our
high school graduates are ready for success. These investments, combined
with those laid out in the President’s American Jobs Plan, will boost
earnings, expand employment opportunities, and enable the U.S. to win
the 21<sup>st</sup> century.  
  
**<u>UNIVERSAL PRE-SCHOOL FOR ALL THREE- AND FOUR-YEAR-OLDS</u>**  
  
Preschool is critical to ensuring that children start kindergarten with
the skills and supports that set them up for success in school. In
fact, [research
shows](https://www.future-ed.org/wp-content/uploads/2017/12/Gormley_et_al-2017-Journal_of_Policy_Analysis_and_Management.pdf) that
kids who attend universal pre-K are more likely to take honors classes
and less likely to repeat a grade, and [another
study](https://www.brookings.edu/bpea-articles/the-impacts-of-expanding-access-to-high-quality-preschool-education/) finds
low-income children who attend universal programs do better in math and
reading as late as eighth grade. Unfortunately, many children, but
especially children of color and low-income children, [do not have
access
to](https://s3-us-east-2.amazonaws.com/edtrustmain/wp-content/uploads/2014/09/05162154/Young-Learners-Missed-Opportunities.pdf) the
full range of high-quality pre-school programs available to their more
affluent peers. In addition to providing critical benefits for children,
preschool has also been shown to [increase labor force
participation](https://www.americanprogress.org/issues/early-childhood/reports/2018/09/26/458208/effects-universal-preschool-washington-d-c/) among
parents – especially women — boosting family earnings and driving
economic growth.  By some estimates, the benefits of a universal pre-K
system to U.S. GDP are [more than three times greater than the
investment](https://equitablegrowth.org/research-paper/public-investments-in-education-can-spur-equitable-growth-pay-for-themselves-and-create-jobs-for-a-stronger-economic-recovery/?longform=true) needed
to provide this service.

-   **President Biden is calling for a national partnership with states
    to offer free, high-quality, accessible, and inclusive preschool to
    all three-and four-year-olds, benefitting five million children and
    saving the average family $13,000, **when fully
    implemented**. **This historic $200 billion investment in America’s
    future will first prioritize high-need areas and enable communities
    and families to choose the settings that work best for them. The
    President’s plan will also ensure that all publicly-funded preschool
    is high-quality, with low student-to-teacher ratios, high-quality
    and developmentally appropriate curriculum, and supportive classroom
    environments that are inclusive for all students. The President’s
    plan will leverage investments in tuition-free community college and
    teacher scholarships to support those who wish to earn a bachelor’s
    degree or another credential that supports their work as an
    educator, or to become an early childhood educator. And, educators
    will receive job-embedded coaching, professional development, and
    wages that reflect the importance of their work. All employees in
    participating pre-K programs and Head Start will earn at least $15
    per hour, and those with comparable qualifications will receive
    compensation commensurate with that of kindergarten teachers. These
    investments will give American children a head start and pave the
    way for the best-educated generation in U.S. history.

**<span style="text-decoration: underline">FREE COMMUNITY COLLEGE AND
OTHER POSTSECONDARY EDUCATION INVESTMENTS</span>**  
For much of the 20<sup>th</sup> century, graduating from high school was
a gateway to a stable job and a living wage. But over the last 40 years,
we have seen the most growth in jobs requiring [higher levels of job
preparation](https://www.pewresearch.org/social-trends/2016/10/06/the-state-of-american-jobs/),
including education and training. Today, [70 percent of
jobs](https://www.bls.gov/news.release/empsit.t04.htm) are held by
people with more than a high school degree. American workers need and
deserve additional support to build their skills, increase their
earnings, remain competitive, and share in the benefits of the new
economy. President Biden’s plan will expand access to affordable
postsecondary education, laying the groundwork for innovation and
inclusive economic growth for all Americans. Specifically, President
Biden’s plan will:

-   **Offer two years of free community college to all Americans,
    including DREAMers.** The current crisis has led to a [steep college
    enrollment
    decline](https://nscresearchcenter.org/wp-content/uploads/2021_HSBenchmarksCovidReport.pdf),
    particularly for low-income students and students of color. As of
    Fall 2020, high-minority and high-poverty high schools saw a [9.4
    percent and 11.4 percent
    decline](https://nscresearchcenter.org/wp-content/uploads/2021_HSBenchmarksCovidReport.pdf) in
    college enrollment, respectively. But even before the pandemic, cost
    remained a barrier to attending and graduating from community
    college for many Americans. President Biden’s $109 billion plan will
    ensure that first-time students and workers wanting to reskill can
    enroll in a community college to earn a degree or credential for
    free. Students can use the benefit over three years and, if
    circumstances warrant, up to four years, recognizing that many
    students’ lives and other responsibilities can make full-time
    enrollment difficult. If all states, territories, and Tribes
    participate, about 5.5 million students would pay $0 in tuition and
    fees.

<!-- -->

-   **Provide up to approximately $1,400 in additional assistance to
    low-income students by increasing the Pell Grant
    award. **While [nearly 7 million
    students](https://www.statista.com/statistics/235372/recipients-of-federal-pell-grants-in-the-us/) depend
    on Pell Grants, the grant has not kept up with the rising cost of
    college. [Over the last 50
    years](https://www.cbpp.org/research/federal-budget/pell-grants-a-key-tool-for-expanding-college-access-and-economic),
    the value of Pell Grants has plummeted. The maximum grant went from
    covering nearly 80 percent of the cost of a four-year college degree
    to under 30 percent — leading millions of low-income students to
    take out debt to finance their education. One in three community
    college students receive Pell Grants to pay for their education.
    Among students of color, nearly 60 percent of Black, half of
    American Indian or Alaska Native, almost half of Latino, and over
    one-third of Native Hawaiian or Pacific Islander students rely on
    Pell Grants to pay for college. The American Families Plan will
    increase the maximum Pell Grant award by approximately $1,400, a
    down payment on President Biden’s commitment to double the maximum
    award. The plan also allows DREAMers to access Pell Grants.  
     
-   **Increase college retention and completion rates**. An [education
    beyond high
    school](https://research.collegeboard.org/pdf/education-pays-2019-full-report.pdf) can
    lead to higher pay, financial stability, social mobility, and better
    health outcomes. It also has public benefits such as a [reduction in
    crime
    rates](https://all4ed.org/take-action/action-academy/the-economic-case-for-reducing-the-high-school-dropout-rate/) and
    higher civic engagement. However, far too many students enter
    college but do not
    graduate. [Research](https://nces.ed.gov/fastfacts/display.asp?id=40) shows
    that only approximately three out of five students finish any type
    of degree or certificate program within six years. To complete,
    students need additional support. The President is proposing a bold
    $62 billion grant program to invest in completion and retention
    activities at colleges and universities that serve high numbers of
    low-income students, particularly community colleges. States,
    territories, and Tribes will receive grants to provide funding to
    colleges that adopt innovative, proven solutions for student
    success, including wraparound services ranging from child care and
    mental health services to faculty and peer mentoring; emergency
    basic needs grants; practices that recruit and retain diverse
    faculty; transfer agreements between colleges; and evidence-based
    remediation programs.  
     
-   **Provide two years of subsidized tuition and expand programs in
    high-demand fields at HBCUs, TCUs, and
    MSIs. **[Research](https://www.acenet.edu/Documents/MSIs-as-Engines-of-Upward-Mobility.pdf) has
    found that HBCUs, TCUs, and MSIs are vital to helping
    underrepresented students move to the top of the income ladder. For
    example, [while HBCUs are only three percent of four-year
    universities](https://www.theatlantic.com/education/archive/2019/05/howard-universitys-president-why-america-needs-hbcus/589582/),
    their graduates make up approximately 80 percent of Black judges,
    half of Black lawyers and doctors, and 25 percent of Black
    undergraduates earning STEM degrees. Yet, these institutions
    have [significantly
    less](https://edlabor.house.gov/download/investing-in-economic-mobility-the-important-role-of-hbcus-tcus-and-msis-in-closing-racial-and-wealth-gaps-in-higher-education) resources
    than other top colleges and universities, undermining their ability
    to grow and support more students. President Biden is calling on
    Congress to make a historic investment in HBCU, TCU, and MSI
    affordability. Specifically, he is calling for a new $39 billion
    program that provides two years of subsidized tuition for students
    from families earning less than $125,000 enrolled in a four-year
    HBCU, TCU, or MSI. The President is also calling for $5 billion to
    expand existing institutional aid grants to HBCUs, TCUs, and MSIs,
    which can be used by these institutions to strengthen their
    academic, administrative, and fiscal capabilities, including by
    creating or expanding educational programs in high-demand fields
    (e.g., STEM, computer sciences, nursing, and allied health), with an
    additional $2 billion directed towards building a pipeline of
    skilled health care workers with graduate degrees. These
    investments, combined with the $45 billion proposed in the American
    Jobs Plan targeted to these institutions, will enable America’s
    HBCUs, TCUs, and MSIs to tackle longstanding inequities in
    postsecondary education and make the U.S. more competitive on the
    global stage.

**<u>EDUCATION AND PREPARATION FOR TEACHERS</u>**  
  
Few people can have a bigger impact on a child’s life than a great
teacher. Unfortunately, the U.S. faces a large and growing teacher
shortage. Before the pandemic, schools across the nation needed [an
estimated additional 100,000 certified
teachers](https://learningpolicyinstitute.org/sites/default/files/product-files/A_Coming_Crisis_in_Teaching_REPORT.pdf),
resulting in key positions going unfilled. Shortages of certified
teachers disproportionately impact schools with higher percentages of
students of color, [which  have a higher proportion of teachers that are
uncertified and in their first or second
year](https://learningpolicyinstitute.org/product/understanding-teacher-shortages-interactive?gclid=EAIaIQobChMIlZbktfGP8AIVg-DICh10CQyXEAAYAiAAEgJgV_D_BwE),
exacerbating educational disparities. At the same time, [while teachers
of color can have a particularly strong impact on students of
color](https://learningpolicyinstitute.org/sites/default/files/product-files/Diversifying_Teaching_Profession_REPORT_0.pdf),
around [one in five teachers](https://www.bls.gov/cps/cpsaat11.htm) are
people of color, compared to [more than half of
K-12](https://nces.ed.gov/programs/coe/indicator_cge.asp) public school
students. President Biden is calling on Congress to invest $9 billion in
American teachers, addressing shortages, improving training and supports
for teachers, and boosting teacher diversity.  
  
These investments will improve the quality of new teachers entering the
profession, increase retention rates and increase the number of teachers
of color, all of which will improve student outcomes like [academic
achievement](https://mrbartonmaths.com/resourcesnew/8.%20Research/Improving%20Teaching/Teaching%20Experience.pdf) and [high
school graduation
rates](https://learningpolicyinstitute.org/sites/default/files/product-files/Diversifying_Teaching_Profession_REPORT_0.pdf), [resulting
in higher long-term earnings, job creation and a boost to the
economy](https://all4ed.org/take-action/action-academy/the-economic-case-for-reducing-the-high-school-dropout-rate/).
In addition, as more teachers stay in the profession, a virtuous cycle
is created, wherein districts [save money on recruiting and training new
teachers](https://learningpolicyinstitute.org/product/the-cost-of-teacher-turnover) and
can invest those funds back into programs that directly impact
students.  
  
Specifically, President Biden’s plan will:

-   **Address teacher shortages, improve teacher preparation, and
    strengthen pipelines for teachers of color. **President Biden is
    calling on Congress to double scholarships for future teachers from
    $4,000 to $8,000 per year while earning their degree, strengthening
    the program, and expanding it to early childhood educators. The
    President’s plan also invests $2.8 billion in Grow Your Own programs
    and year-long, paid teacher residency programs, which have a greater
    impact on student outcomes, teacher retention, and are more likely
    to enroll teacher candidates of color. His plan targets $400 million
    for teacher preparation at HBCUs, TCUs, and MSIs and $900 million
    for the development of special education teachers.

<!-- -->

-   **Help current teachers earn in-demand credentials. **Many teachers
    are eager to answer the call to get certified in areas their schools
    need, like special education, but are deterred due to the high cost
    of professional programs. President Biden is calling on Congress to
    invest $1.6 billion to provide educators with opportunities to
    obtain additional certifications in high-demand areas like special
    education, bilingual education, and certifications that improve
    teacher performance. This funding will support over 100,000
    educators, with priority for public school teachers with at least
    two years of experience at schools with a significant portion of
    low-income students or significant teacher shortages. All funds will
    be available immediately, flowing through the states, and available
    until expended.  
     
-   **Invest in educator leadership. **Millions of teachers – and the
    students they educate – would stand to benefit from greater
    mentorship and leadership opportunities. President Biden is calling
    on Congress to invest $2 billion to support programs that leverage
    teachers as leaders, such as high-quality mentorship programs for
    new teachers and teachers of color. These programs are proven tools
    to [improve both student
    outcomes](https://www.sri.com/education-learning/case-studies/new-teachers-training/) [and
    teacher retention by providing new teachers with the support they
    need.](https://repository.upenn.edu/cgi/viewcontent.cgi?article=1134&context=gse_pubs) The
    President’s plan will also leverage teachers as leaders of other key
    priorities within their school buildings, and compensate teachers
    for this work, recognizing the incredible expertise of our veteran
    educators, and their value in supporting the next generation of
    great teachers.  
     

**<span style="text-decoration: underline">PROVIDE DIRECT SUPPORT TO
CHILDREN AND FAMILIES</span>**  
  
The hope of a middle-class life has gotten further and further out of
reach for too many American families, as the costs of raising children –
from child care to taking paid leave time to care for a new child or
when a child is ill – have grown. Middle-class families and those trying
to break into the middle class increasingly feel the strain of these
rising costs, while wage growth has failed to keep up. These rising
costs impact our economy as a whole as well.
In [part](https://www.nber.org/papers/w18702) due to the lack of family
friendly policies, the United States has fallen behind its competitors
in female labor force participation. One study found that a lack of
child care options costs the United States economy [$57
billion](https://www.strongnation.org/articles/780-want-to-grow-the-economy-fix-the-child-care-crisis) per
year in lost earnings, productivity, and revenue. Another study found
that lack of paid leave options cost workers [$22.5
billion](https://www.americanprogress.org/issues/women/news/2020/01/21/479555/rising-cost-inaction-work-family-policies/) each
year in lost wages.  
  
**<u>CHILD CARE</u>**  
  
The high cost of child care continues to make it hard for parents –
especially women — to work outside the home and provide for their
families. Difficulty in finding high-quality, affordable child
care [leads some
parents](https://www.pewresearch.org/fact-tank/2015/10/01/women-more-than-men-adjust-their-careers-for-family-life/) to
drop out of the labor force entirely, some to reduce their work hours,
and others to turn down a promotion. When a parent drops out of the
workforce, reduces hours, or takes a lower-paying job early in their
careers—even temporarily—there are [lifetime
consequences](https://nwlc.org/wp-content/uploads/2021/04/A-Lifetimes-Worth-of-Benefits-_FD.pdf) on
earnings, savings, and retirement. These costs are especially
significant for mothers and people of color, exacerbating inequality and
harming the economic security of their families, as [91
percent](https://www.brookings.edu/essay/womens-work-boosts-middle-class-incomes-but-creates-a-family-time-squeeze-that-needs-to-be-eased/) of
the income gains experienced by middle-class families over the last
forty years were driven by women’s earnings.  
  
High-quality early care and education lay a strong foundation so that
children can take full advantage of education and training opportunities
later in life. The evidence is clear: for early years, quality care is
education. This especially important for children from low-income
families, who too often start school without access to high-quality
educational opportunities. [A
study](https://www.nber.org/papers/w22993) by Nobel Laureate James
Heckman found that every dollar invested in a  high-quality, birth to
five program for the most economically disadvantaged children resulted
in $7.30 in benefits as children grew up healthier, were more likely to
graduate high school and college, and earned more as adults.  
  
Building on the American Jobs Plan’s investments in school and child
care infrastructure and workforce training, President Biden’s American
Families Plan will ensure low and middle-income families pay no more
than 7 percent of their income on high-quality child care for children
under 5 years-old, saving the average family $14,800 per year on child
care expenses, while also generating lifetime benefits for three million
children, supporting hundreds of thousands of child care providers and
workers, allowing roughly one million parents, primarily mothers, to
enter the labor force, and significantly bolstering inclusive and
equitable economic growth. Specifically, President Biden’s plan will
invest $225 billion to:

-   **Make child care affordable.** Families will pay only a portion of
    their income based on a sliding scale. For the most hard-pressed
    working families, child care costs for their young children would be
    fully covered and families earning 1.5 times their state median
    income will pay no more than 7 percent of their income for all
    children under age five. The plan will also provide families with a
    range of inclusive and accessible options to choose from for their
    child, from child care centers to family child care providers to
    Early Head Start.    
     
-   **Invest in high-quality child care.** Child care providers will
    receive funding to cover the true cost of quality early childhood
    care and education–including a developmentally appropriate
    curriculum, small class sizes, and culturally and linguistically
    responsive environments that are inclusive of children with
    disabilities. These investments support positive interactions that
    promote children’s social-emotional and cognitive development.  
     
-   **Invest in the child care workforce**. More investment is needed to
    support early childhood care providers and educators, more
    than [nine in
    ten](https://nwlc.org/wp-content/uploads/2020/08/ChildCareWorkersFS.pdf) of
    whom are women and more than [four in
    ten](https://nwlc.org/wp-content/uploads/2020/08/ChildCareWorkersFS.pdf) of
    whom are women of color. They are  [among the most
    underpaid](https://cscce.berkeley.edu/workforce-index-2020/the-early-educator-workforce/early-educator-pay-economic-insecurity-across-the-states/) workers
    in the country and [nearly
    half](https://cscce.berkeley.edu/wp-content/uploads/2014/ReportFINAL.pdf) receive
    public income support programs. The typical child care worker earned
    $[12.24](https://www.bls.gov/ooh/personal-care-and-service/childcare-workers.htm) per
    hour in 2020—while receiving few, if any, benefits, leading to high
    turnover and lower quality of care. This investment will mean a $15
    minimum wage for early childhood staff and ensure that those with
    similar qualifications as kindergarten teachers receive comparable
    compensation and benefits. And, it will ensure child care workers
    receive job-embedded coaching and professional development, along
    with additional training opportunities funded by the American Jobs
    Plan and American Families Plan. These investments will lead to
    better quality care, while also enabling these workers to care for
    their own families, reducing government spending on income support
    programs and increasing tax revenues.

**<u>PAID LEAVE</u>**  
  
The United States has fallen behind our economic competitors in the
number of women participating in the labor force. The pandemic has
exacerbated this problem, pushing millions of people—especially
women—out  of the workforce, eroding more than 30 years of progress in
women’s labor force participation and resulting in a [$64
billion](https://tcf.org/content/report/how-covid-19-sent-womens-workforce-progress-backward-congress-64-5-billion-mistake/) loss
in wages and economic activity per year. A lack of family-friendly
policies, such as paid family and medical leave for when a worker need
time to care for a new child, a seriously ill family member, or recover
from their own serious illness, has been identified as a key reason for
the U.S. decline in competitiveness. The United States is one of the
only countries in the world that doesn’t guarantee paid leave.
Nearly [one in four
mothers](https://inthesetimes.com/article/the-real-war-on-families) return
to work within two weeks of giving birth and [one in five
retirees](https://www.aarp.org/content/dam/aarp/research/public_policy_institute/ltc/2012/understanding-impact-family-caregiving-work-AARP-ppi-ltc.pdf) left
or were forced to leave the workforce earlier than planned to care for
an ill family member. Further, today nearly [four of five private
sector](https://www.bls.gov/ncs/ebs/benefits/2020/employee-benefits-in-the-united-states-march-2020.pdf) workers
have no access to paid leave. [95 percent of the lowest wage
workers](https://www.bls.gov/ncs/ebs/benefits/2020/employee-benefits-in-the-united-states-march-2020.pdf),
mostly [women](https://www.dol.gov/sites/dolgov/files/OASP/evaluation/pdf/WHD_FMLAGenderShortPaper_January2021.pdf) and [workers
of
color](https://www.nationalpartnership.org/our-work/resources/economic-justice/paid-leave/paid-family-and-medical-leave-racial-justice-issue-and-opportunity.pdf),
lack any access to paid family leave.  
  
Paid family and medical leave supports workers and families and is a
critical investment in the strength and equity of our economy. President
Biden’s American Families Plan will:

-   **Create a national comprehensive paid family and medical leave
    program. **The program will ensure workers receive partial wage
    replacement to take time to bond with a new child, care for a
    seriously ill loved one, deal with a loved one’s military
    deployment, find safety from sexual assault, stalking, or domestic
    violence, heal from their own serious illness, or take time to deal
    with the death of a loved one. It will guarantee twelve weeks of
    paid parental, family, and personal illness/safe leave by year 10 of
    the program, and also ensure workers get three days of bereavement
    leave per year starting in year one. The program will provide
    workers up to $4,000 a month, with a minimum of two-thirds of
    average weekly wages replaced, rising to 80 percent for the lowest
    wage workers. We estimate this program will cost $225 billion over a
    decade.

President Biden’s paid leave plan has broad benefits for working
families and the economy as a
whole. [Studies](https://equitablegrowth.org/factsheet-what-does-the-research-say-about-the-economics-of-paid-leave/) have
shown that, under state paid leave laws, new mothers are 18 percentage
points more likely to be working a year after the birth of their child. 
In addition, paid leave can [reduce racial
disparities](https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/full/10.1080/13668803.2019.1704398) in
wage loss between workers of color and white workers, improve child
health and well-being, support employers by improving employee retention
and reducing turnover costs, and increase women’s labor force
participation. Over [30
million](https://www.bls.gov/ncs/ebs/benefits/2020/employee-benefits-in-the-united-states-march-2020.pdf) workers,
including [67
percent](https://www.bls.gov/ncs/ebs/benefits/2020/employee-benefits-in-the-united-states-march-2020.pdf) of
low-wage workers, do not have access to a single paid sick day. Low-wage
and part-time workers, a [majority of whom are
women](https://shift.hks.harvard.edu/essential-and-vulnerable-service-sector-workers-and-paid-sick-leave/),
are [less
likely](https://www.americanprogress.org/issues/women/news/2018/08/30/457309/uneven-expansion-access-paid-sick-days/) to
have access to paid sick days.   
  
The COVID pandemic has highlighted the need for a national paid sick
leave policy, to help workers and their loved ones quickly recover from
short-term illness and prevent the spread of disease. Therefore, the
President calls upon Congress to pass the Healthy Families Act which
will require employers to allow workers to accrue seven days paid sick
leave per year to seek preventative care for them or their family– such
as getting a flu shot, recovering from short-term illness, or caring for
a sick child or family member or a family member with disability-related
needs.  
  
**NUTRITION**  
  
The pandemic has added urgency to the issue of nutrition insecurity,
which disproportionately affects low-income families and families of
color. No one should have to worry about whether they can provide
nutritious food for themselves or their children. A poor diet
jeopardizes a child’s ability to learn and succeed in school. Nutrition
insecurity can also have long-lasting negative impact on overall health
and put children at higher risk for diseases such as diabetes, heart
disease, and high blood pressure. Today, [one-fifth of American children
are obese](https://www.cdc.gov/obesity/data/childhood.html),
and [research shows](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/20035278/) that
childhood obesity increases the likelihood of obesity in adulthood. In
addition to the incredible financial burden on the health care system,
diet-related diseases carry significant economic and national security
implications by decreasing work productivity, increasing job
absenteeism, and threatening military readiness***. ***A [recent
study](https://jamanetwork.com/journals/jamanetworkopen/fullarticle/2778453?utm_source=For_The_Media&utm_medium=referral&utm_campaign=ftm_links&utm_term=040921) found
that U.S. children are getting their healthiest meals at school,
demonstrating that school meals are one of the federal government’s most
powerful tools for delivering nutrition security to children.  To ensure
the nutritional needs of families are met, President Biden’s plan will
invest $45 billion to:

-   **Expand summer EBT to all eligible children nationwide. **The
    Summer EBT Demonstrations helps low-income families with children
    eligible for free and reduced-price meals during the school year
    purchase food during the summer. [Research
    shows](https://fns-prod.azureedge.net/sites/default/files/ops/sebtcfinalreport.pdf) that
    this program decreases food insecurity among children and has led to
    positive changes in nutritional outcomes. The American Families Plan
    builds on the American Rescue Plan’s support for Summer Pandemic-EBT
    by investing more than $25 billion to make the successful program
    permanent and available to all 29 million children receiving free
    and reduced-price meals.  
     
-   **Expand healthy school meals. **The Community Eligibility Provision
    (CEP) allows high-poverty schools to provide meals free of charge to
    all of their students. It is currently available to individual
    schools, groups of schools within a district, or an entire district
    with at least 40 percent of students participating in the
    Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) or other means
    tested programs. The program is particularly important because some
    families whose children would be eligible for free meals may not
    apply for them due to stigma or not fully understanding the
    application process. In addition, other families in high-poverty
    schools may still be facing food insecurity but make just enough to
    not qualify for free school meals. However, only 70 percent of
    eligible schools have adopted CEP, because some schools would
    receive reimbursement below the free meal rate. The President’s plan
    will fund $17 billion to expand free meals for children in the
    highest poverty districts by reimbursing a higher percentage of
    meals at the free reimbursement rate through CEP. Additionally, the
    plan will lower the threshold for CEP eligibility for elementary
    schools to 25 percent of students participating in SNAP. Targeting
    elementary students will drive better long-term health outcomes by
    ensuring low-income children are receiving nutritious meals at an
    early age. The plan will also expand direct certification to
    automatically enroll more students for school meals based on
    Medicaid and Supplemental Security Income data. This proposal will
    provide free meals to an additional 9.3 million children, with about
    70 percent in elementary schools.  
     
-   **Launch a healthy foods incentive demonstration. **To build on
    progress made during the Obama Administration to improve the
    nutrition standards of school meals, this new $1 billion
    demonstration will support schools that are further expanding
    healthy food offerings. For example, schools adopting specified
    measures that exceed current school meal standards will receive an
    enhanced reimbursement as an incentive.  
     
-   **Facilitate re-entry for formerly incarcerated individuals through
    SNAP eligibility.** Individuals convicted of a drug-related felony
    are currently ineligible to receive SNAP benefits unless a state has
    taken the option to eliminate or modify this restriction. Denying
    these individuals—many of whom are parents of young children—SNAP
    benefits jeopardizes nutrition security and poses a barrier to
    re-entry into the community in a population that already faces
    significant hurdles to obtaining employment and stability. SNAP is a
    critical safety net for many individuals as they search for
    employment to support themselves and their families. This
    restriction disproportionately impacts African Americans, who are
    convicted of drug offenses at much higher rates than white
    Americans. 

**<u>UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE REFORM</u>**  
  
The unemployment insurance (UI) system is a critical lifeline to workers
at the hardest times. During the pandemic, it saved millions from
poverty and helped people put food on the table. But, the system is in
desperate need of reform and strengthening.  Too often Americans found
themselves waiting weeks to get the benefits they deserved.  Too often
the benefits Americans would automatically receive would’ve been too low
and would not have gone long enough absent Congress stepping in.  Too
often the safeguards to prevent fraud in the system have been
insufficient. And it has been unemployed people of color who have borne
the brunt of the UI system’s weaknesses. President Biden is committed to
strengthening and reforming the system for the long term.  That’s why he
won $2 billion in the American Rescue Plan to put toward UI system
modernization, equitable access, and fraud prevention.  And, that’s why
he wants to work with Congress to automatically adjust the length and
amount of UI benefits unemployed workers receive depending on economic
conditions. This will ensure future legislative delay doesn’t undermine
economic recovery and it will enable permanent reform of the system to
provide the safety net that workers deserve in the hardest times.

**TAX CUTS FOR AMERICA’S FAMILIES AND WORKERS**  
  
While the American Rescue Plan provided meaningful relief for hundreds
of millions of Americans, that is just a first step. Now is the time to
build back better, to help families and workers who for too long have
felt the squeeze of stagnating wages and an ever-increasing
cost-of-living.  Direct assistance to families in the form of tax
credits paid on a regular basis lifts children and families out of
poverty, makes it easier for families to make ends meet, and boosts the
academic and economic performance of children over time. But if Congress
does not act, millions of American families and workers will see their
taxes go up at the end of the year.   
  
President Biden believes we must extend the American Rescue Plan’s
expanded tax credits that lifted millions of children out of poverty,
made it easier for families to afford child care, and ensured that
low-income workers without children would not continue to be taxed into
poverty.  
  
Specifically, President Biden’s plan will:

-   **Extend expanded ACA premiums tax credits in the American Rescue
    Plan.** Health care should be a right, not a privilege, and
    Americans facing illness should never have to worry about how they
    are going to pay for their treatment. No one should face a choice
    between buying life-saving medications or putting food on the
    table.  President Biden has a plan to build on the Affordable Care
    Act and lower prescription drug costs for everyone by letting
    Medicare negotiate prices, reducing health insurance premiums and
    deductibles for those who buy coverage on their own, creating a
    public option and the option for people to enroll in Medicare at age
    60, and closing the Medicaid coverage gap to help millions of
    Americans gain health insurance. The American Families Plan will
    build on the American Rescue Plan and continue our work to make
    health care more affordable.  The American Rescue Plan included a
    historic investment in reducing Americans’ health care costs.  The
    biggest improvement in health care affordability since the
    Affordable Care Act, the American Rescue Plan provided two years of
    lower health insurance premiums for those who buy coverage on their
    own, saving families an average [of $50 per person per
    month](https://www.hhs.gov/about/news/2021/03/12/fact-sheet-american-rescue-plan-reduces-health-care-costs-expands-access-insurance-coverage.html). 
    The American Families Plan will make those premium reductions
    permanent, a $200 billion investment.  As a result, [nine
    million](https://www.hhs.gov/about/news/2021/03/12/fact-sheet-american-rescue-plan-reduces-health-care-costs-expands-access-insurance-coverage.html) people
    will save hundreds of dollars per year on their premiums, and [four
    million](https://www.urban.org/research/publication/what-if-american-rescue-plans-enhanced-marketplace-subsidies-were-made-permanent-estimates-2022) uninsured
    people will gain coverage.  The Families Plan will also invest in
    maternal health and support the families of veterans receiving
    health care services.   
     
-   **Extend the Child Tax Credit increases in the American Rescue Plan
    through 2025 and make the Child Tax Credit permanently fully
    refundable**. The President is calling for the Child Tax Credit
    expansion, first enacted in the American Rescue Plan, to be
    extended.  This legislation expands the Child Tax Credit from $2,000
    per child to $3,000 per child for six-years old and above, and
    $3,600 per child for children under six. It also makes 17-year-olds
    eligible for the first time and makes the credit fully refundable on
    a permanent basis, so that low-income families—the families that
    need the credit the most—can benefit from the full tax credit. The
    expanded Child Tax Credit in the American Rescue Plan benefited
    nearly 66 million children, and it was the single largest
    contributor to the plan’s historic reductions in child poverty.  
      
    For a family with two parents earning a combined $100,000 per year
    and two children under six, the Child Tax Credit expansion means an
    additional $3,200 per year in tax relief. For a family with two
    parents earning a combined $24,000 per year and two children under
    six, the expansion means even more, with a credit increase of than
    $4,400 because the full credit was not previously fully available to
    them.  
      
    The credit would also be delivered regularly. This means that
    families will not need to wait until tax season to receive a refund.
    Instead, they will receive regular payments that allow them to cover
    household expenses as they arise.  
      
    The American Families Plan will make permanent the full
    refundability of the Child Tax Credit, while extending the other
    expansions to the Child Tax Credit through 2025—when the 2017 law’s
    individual provisions expire. The President is committed to working
    with Congress to achieve his ultimate goal of making permanent the
    Child Tax Credit as well as all of the expansions he signed into law
    in the American Rescue Plan.  
     
-   **Permanently increase tax credits to support families with child
    care needs. **To help families afford child care, President Biden is
    calling on Congress to make permanent the temporary Child and
    Dependent Care Tax Credit (CDCTC) expansion enacted in the American
    Rescue Plan. Families will receive a tax credit for as much as half
    of their spending on qualified child care for children under age 13,
    up to a total of $4,000 for one child or $8,000 for two or more
    children. A 50 percent reimbursement will be available to families
    making less than $125,000 a year, while families making between
    $125,000 and $400,000 will receive a partial credit with benefits at
    least as generous as those they receive today. The credit can be
    used for expenses ranging from full-time care to after school care
    to summer care.  
      
    This is a dramatic expansion of support to low- and middle-income
    families. In 2019, a family claiming a CDCTC for the previous
    year [got less than
    $600](https://www.irs.gov/statistics/soi-tax-stats-individual-statistical-tables-by-size-of-adjusted-gross-income) on
    average towards the cost of care, and many low-income families got
    nothing. If Congress fails to extend the CDCTC expansion, more than
    6 million families could see their taxes go up at the end of the
    year – many by thousands of dollars – making obtaining affordable
    child care more difficult. Importantly, this tax credit works in
    tandem with the American Families Plan’s direct investments in
    childcare affordability for families with young children.  
     
-   **Make the Earned Income Tax Credit Expansion for childless workers
    permanent**. Before this year, the federal tax code taxed low-wage
    childless workers into poverty or deeper into poverty — the only
    group of workers it treated this way. The American Rescue Plan
    addressed this problem by roughly tripling the EITC for childless
    workers, benefitting [17
    million](https://www.cbpp.org/research/federal-tax/american-rescue-plan-act-includes-critical-expansions-of-child-tax-credit-and) low-wage
    workers, many of whom are essential workers including cashiers,
    cooks, delivery drivers, food preparation workers, and childcare
    providers. For example, a childless worker who works 30 hours per
    week at $9 per hour earns income that, after taxes, leaves them
    below the federal poverty line. By increasing her EITC to more than
    $1,100, this EITC expansion helps pull such workers out of
    poverty.  
      
    The President is calling on Congress to make this expansion
    permanent. President Biden believes our tax code should reward work
    and not wealth. And that means rewarding workers who work hard every
    day at modest wages to provide their communities with essential
    services.  
     
-   **Give IRS the authority to regulate paid tax preparers**. Tax
    returns prepared by certain types of preparers have high error
    rates. These preparers charge taxpayers large fees while exposing
    them to costly audits.  As preparers play a crucial role in tax
    administration, and will be key to helping many taxpayers claim the
    newly-expanded credits, IRS oversight of tax preparers is needed.
    The President is calling on Congress to pass bipartisan legislation
    that will give the IRS that authority.

**<u>TAX REFORM THAT REWARDS WORK – NOT WEALTH</u>**  
  
The President’s tax agenda will not only reverse the biggest 2017 tax
law giveaways, but reform the tax code so that the wealthy have to play
by the same rules as everyone else. It will ensure that high-income
Americans pay the tax they owe under the law—ending the unfair system of
enforcement that collects almost all taxes due on wages, while regularly
collecting a smaller share of business and capital income. The plan will
also eliminate long-standing loopholes, including lower taxes on capital
gains and dividends for the wealthy, that reward wealth over work.
Importantly, these reforms will also rein in the ways that the tax code
widens racial disparities in income and wealth.   
  
President Biden’s plan uses the resulting revenue to rebuild the middle
class, investing in education and boosting wages. It will also give tax
relief to middle-class families, dramatically reducing child poverty and
cutting the cost of child care in half for many families. The result of
the President’s individual tax reforms will be a tax code with fewer
loopholes for the wealthy and more opportunity for low- and
middle-income Americans.  
  
Altogether, these tax reforms focused on the highest income Americans
would raise about $1.5 trillion across the decade. In combination with
the American Jobs Plan, which produces long-term deficit reduction
through corporate tax reform, all of the investments would be fully paid
for over the next 15 years.  
  
President Biden’s plan will:

-   **Revitalize enforcement to make the wealthy pay what they owe**. 
    We have a two-tiered system of tax administration in this country:
    regular workers pay the taxes they owe on wages and salaries while
    some wealthy taxpayers aggressively plan to avoid the tax laws. 
    Those with the highest incomes generate income in opaque categories
    where misreporting rates [can reach 55
    percent](https://www.nber.org/system/files/working_papers/w26475/w26475.pdf).
    A recent study found that the top one percent failed to report [20
    percent of their income](https://www.nber.org/papers/w28542) and
    failed to pay over $175 billion in taxes that they owed. But today,
    the IRS does not even have the resources to fully investigate this
    evasion. As a result of budget cuts, audit rates on those making
    over $1 million per year [fell
    by](https://www.irs.gov/pub/irs-prior/p55b--2019.pdf) [80
    percent](https://www.irs.gov/pub/irs-soi/11databk.pdf) between
    2011-2018.  
      
    The President’s proposal would change the game—by making sure the
    wealthiest Americans play by the same set of rules as all other
    Americans.It would require financial institutions to report
    information on account flows so that earnings from investments and
    business activity are subject to reporting more like wages already
    are.It would also increase investment in the IRS, while ensuring
    that the additional resources go toward enforcement against those
    with the highest incomes, rather than Americans with actual income
    less than $400,000. Additional resources would focus on large
    corporations, businesses, and estates, and higher-income
    individuals. Altogether, this plan would raise $700 billion over 10
    years.  
     
-   **Increase the top tax rate on the wealthiest Americans to 39.6
    percent. **One of the 2017 tax cut’s clearest giveaways to the
    wealthy was cutting the top income tax rate from 39.6 percent to 37
    percent, exclusively benefitting the wealthiest households—those in
    the top one percent. This [rate cut
    alone](https://www.cbpp.org/research/federal-tax/new-tax-law-is-fundamentally-flawed-and-will-require-basic-restructuring) gives
    a couple with $2 million in taxable an annual tax cut of more than
    $36,400. The President’s plan restores the top tax bracket to what
    it was before the 2017 law, returning the rate to 39.6 percent,
    applying only to those within the top one percent.  
     
-   **End capital income tax breaks and other loopholes for the very
    top.** The President’s tax reform will end one of the most unfair
    aspects of our tax system: that the tax rate the wealthy pay on
    capital gains and dividends is less than the tax rate that many
    middle-class families pay on their wages. Households making over $1
    million—the top 0.3 percent of all households—will pay the same 39.6
    percent rate on all their income, equalizing the rate paid on
    investment returns and wages. Moreover, the President would
    eliminate the loophole that allows the wealthiest Americans to
    entirely escape tax on their wealth by passing it down to heirs.
    Today, our tax laws allow these accumulated gains to be passed down
    across generations untaxed, exacerbating inequality. The President’s
    plan will close this loophole, ending the practice of “stepping-up”
    the basis for gains in excess of $1 million ($2.5 million per couple
    when combined with existing real estate exemptions) and making sure
    the gains are taxed if the property is not donated to charity. The
    reform will be designed with protections so that family-owned
    businesses and farms will not have to pay taxes when given to heirs
    who continue to run the business. Without these changes, billions in
    capital income would continue to escape taxation entirely.  
      
    The President is also calling on Congress to close the carried
    interest loophole so that hedge fund partners will pay ordinary
    income rates on their income just like every other worker. While
    equalizing tax rates on wages and capital gains will address this
    disparity, permanently eliminating carried interest is an important
    structural change that is necessary to ensure that we have a tax
    code that treats all workers fairly.  The President would also end
    the special real estate tax break—that allows real estate investors
    to defer taxation when they exchange property—for gains greater than
    $500,000, and the President would also permanently extend the
    current limitation in place that restricts large, excess business
    losses, 80 percent of which benefits those making over $1 million.  
      
    Finally**, **high-income workers and investors generally pay a 3.8
    percent Medicare tax on their earnings, but the application is
    inconsistent across taxpayers due to holes in the law. The
    President’s tax reform would apply the taxes consistently to those
    making over $400,000, ensuring that all high-income Americans pay
    the same Medicare taxes.

*To view this fact sheet in your browser,
click [here](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/04/American-Families-Plan-Fact-Sheet-FINAL.pdf). *

\###
