---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-04-22'
modified_time: 2021-04-22 11:06:13-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/04/22/executive-summary-u-s-international-climate-finance-plan/
published_time: 2021-04-22 11:06:11-04:00
title: 'EXECUTIVE SUMMARY: U.S. International Climate Finance Plan'
---
 
President Biden’s Executive Order on *Tackling the Climate Crisis at
Home and Abroad* (E.O. 14008, signed January 27, 2021) called for the
preparation of a Climate Finance Plan (herein “Plan”).  This Plan – the
first of its kind in the U.S. government – focuses on international
climate finance.  For the purposes of this Plan, “climate finance”
refers in part to the provision or mobilization of financial resources
to assist developing countries to reduce and/or avoid greenhouse gas
emissions and build resilience and adapt to the impacts of climate
change. 

**1. Scaling-Up International Climate Finance
and Enhancing its Impact**  
The Administration is embracing ambitious but attainable goals regarding
the quantity of public climate finance provided by the United States,
recognizing the urgency of the climate crisis, confronting the sharp
drop in U.S. international climate finance during the FY 2018-2021
period, and understanding the need to re-establish U.S. leadership in
international climate diplomacy.

*The United States intends to double, by 2024, our annual public climate
finance to developing countries relative to the average level during the
second half of the Obama-Biden Administration (FY 2013-2016). As part of
this goal, the United States intends to triple our adaptation finance by
2024.  The Biden Administration will work closely with Congress to meet
these goals.*

U.S. agencies, working with development partners, will prioritize
climate in public investments, enhance technical assistance and
long-term capacity, align support with country needs and priorities, and
boost investments in adaptation and resilience.  For example, the U.S.
Agency for International Development (USAID) will release a new Climate
Change Strategy in November 2021, at the 26<sup>th</sup> Conference of
the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change
(COP26).  The U.S. International Development Finance Corporation (DFC)
will update its development strategy to not only include climate for the
first time, but also to make investments in climate mitigation and
adaptation a top priority.  The Millennium Challenge Corporation (MCC)
will adopt a new Climate Strategy in April 2021, centered on investing
in climate-smart development and sustainable infrastructure, and aims to
have more than 50 percent of its program funding go to climate-related
investments over the next five years.  Treasury will direct U.S.
executive directors in multilateral development banks (MDBs) to help
ensure MDBs set and apply ambitious climate finance targets and
policies, in partnership with other shareholders.

U.S. departments and agencies will enhance strategic coordination on
providing and mobilizing international climate finance and technical
assistance to ensure the complementarity of agency efforts, instruments,
and expertise.  Departments and agencies will increase collaboration and
adopt best practices on incorporating climate considerations into their
international work and investments, such as screening all projects for
climate-related risks to ensure they are resilient.

<span style="text-decoration: underline">**2. Mobilizing Private Finance
Internationally**  
</span>Public interventions, including public finance, must also
mobilize private capital. Several efforts will help mobilize more
private finance.  For example, MCC will expand partnerships and the use
of blended finance to catalyze private capital for climate projects.
 DFC will increase its climate-related investments beginning in FY 2023,
so that at least one-third of its new investments are linked to
addressing the climate crisis. The Export-Import Bank of the United
States (EXIM) will identify ways to significantly increase, as per its
mandate, its support for environmentally beneficial, renewable energy,
energy efficiency, and energy storage exports from the United States.
 U.S. agencies, including DFC, U.S. Trade and Development Agency, EXIM,
the Department of State, MCC, and USAID will work together to build a
strong investable project pipeline.

**3. Ending International Official Financing for Carbon-Intensive Fossil
Fuel Based Energy**  
Scaling back public investments in carbon-intensive fossil fuel-based
energy is the necessary corollary to increasing investments in
climate-friendly activities.  Departments and agencies will seek to end
international investments in and support for carbon-intensive fossil
fuel-based energy projects.  Departments and agencies will work with
other countries, through bilateral and multilateral fora, to promote the
flow of capital toward climate-aligned investments and away from
high-carbon investments.  Treasury, in partnership with other
Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) countries
and other U.S. government departments and agencies, will spearhead
efforts to modify disciplines on official export financing provided by
OECD export credit agencies, to reorient financing away from
carbon-intensive activities. 

**4. Making Capital Flows Consistent with Low-Emissions,
Climate-Resilient Pathways**  
Financial markets are increasingly demanding investment opportunities
that are consistent with low greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and
climate-resilient pathways Supporting the flow of capital toward
activities that are consistent with those pathways involves building an
ecosystem of data, information, practices, and procedures that enable
financial market actors to internalize climate-related considerations
into their decisions.  This concept is embodied in the Paris Agreement’s
Article 2.1(c) and has been widely embraced by financial policy makers
and regulators around the world.  The Treasury Department, in
coordination with other U.S. agencies and regulatory bodies, as
appropriate, will continue to promote improving information on
climate-related risks and opportunities; identifying climate-aligned
investments; managing climate-related financial risks; and aligning
portfolios and strategies with climate objectives.

**5. Defining, Measuring, and Reporting U.S. International Climate
Finance**  
Drawing on over a decade of experience in tracking climate finance, the
United States intends to ensure that our future reporting is on the
cutting edge of transparency and evolves along with our strategic
approach to climate finance.  This will include more detailed reporting,
tracking finance for vulnerable populations, and enhanced reporting on
mobilization and impact.

The National Security Council staff will conduct a review of this Plan
in FY 2023 to take stock of progress and assess whether changes are
needed to increase ambition and impact.

*To view the U.S. International Climate Finance Plan in your browser,
click [here](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/04/U.S.-International-Climate-Finance-Plan-4.22.21-Updated-Spacing.pdf).*
