---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-04-09'
modified_time: 2021-04-10 13:28:15-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/04/09/president-biden-to-sign-executive-order-creating-the-presidential-commission-on-the-supreme-court-of-the-united-states/
published_time: 2021-04-09 11:13:43-04:00
title: "President\_Biden to Sign Executive Order Creating the Presidential Commission\
  \ on the Supreme Court of the United\_States"
---
 
President Biden will today issue an executive order forming the
Presidential Commission on the Supreme Court of the United States,
comprised of a bipartisan group of experts on the Court and the Court
reform debate. In addition to legal and other scholars, the
Commissioners includes former federal judges and practitioners who have
appeared before the Court, as well as advocates for the reform of
democratic institutions and of the administration of justice. The
expertise represented on the Commission includes constitutional law,
history and political science.

The Commission’s purpose is to provide an analysis of the principal
arguments in the contemporary public debate for and against Supreme
Court reform, including an appraisal of the merits and legality of
particular reform proposals. The topics it will examine include the
genesis of the reform debate; the Court’s role in the Constitutional
system; the length of service and turnover of justices on the Court; the
membership and size of the Court; and the Court’s case selection, rules,
and practices. 

To ensure that the Commission’s report is comprehensive and informed by
a diverse spectrum of views, it will hold public meetings to hear the
views of other experts, and groups and interested individuals with
varied perspectives on the issues it will be examining. The Executive
Order directs that the Commission complete its report within 180 days of
its first public meeting. This action is part of the Administration’s
commitment to closely study measures to improve the federal judiciary,
including those that would expand access the court system.

The two co-chairs of this Commission are Bob Bauer, Professor of
Practice and Distinguished Scholar in Residence at New York University
School of Law and a former White House Counsel, as well as Yale Law
School Professor Cristina Rodriguez, former Deputy Assistant Attorney
General in the Office of Legal Counsel at the U.S. Department of
Justice.

COMMISSIONERS 

**Michelle Adams**  
Michelle Adams is a Professor of Law at Benjamin N. Cardozo School of
Law, where she teaches Constitutional Law, Federal Courts, and Federal
Civil Rights. At Cardozo, she is a Director of the Floersheimer Center
for Constitutional Democracy and was a Board Member of the Innocence
Project. Adams has published in the *Yale Law Journal*, the *California
Law Review*, and the *Texas Law Review*. She recently appeared in
“Amend: The Fight for America,” a 2021 Netflix documentary about the
14th Amendment. She is the author of *The Containment: Detroit, The
Supreme Court, and the Battle for Racial Justice in the North*,
forthcoming in 2022 from Farrar, Straus and Giroux. Previously, she was
a Law Professor at Seton Hall Law School, practiced law at the Legal Aid
Society, and served as a Law Clerk for Magistrate Judge James C. Francis
IV in the Southern District of New York. Adams holds a B.A. from Brown
University, a J.D. from City University of New York Law School, and an
LL.M. from Harvard Law School, where she was the first Charles Hamilton
Houston Scholar. She is a two-time recipient of Cardozo’s Faculty
Inspire Award.  
  
**Kate Andrias (Rapporteur)**  
Kate Andrias is a Professor of Law at the University of Michigan. She
teaches and writes about constitutional law, labor and employment law,
and administrative law, with a focus on problems of economic and
political inequality. Her work has been published in numerous books and
journals, including the *Harvard Law Review*, the *NYU Law Review*,
the *Supreme Court Review, *and the *Yale Law Journal*. In 2016, Andrias
was the recipient of Michigan Law School’s L. Hart Wright Award for
Excellence in Teaching. Andrias previously served as special assistant
and associate counsel to President Obama, and as chief of staff of the
White House Counsel’s Office. A graduate of Yale Law School, she clerked
for Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg of the U.S. Supreme Court and the Hon.
Stephen Reinhardt of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit.  
  
**Jack M. Balkin**  
Jack M. Balkin is Knight Professor of Constitutional Law and the First
Amendment at Yale Law School. He is the founder and director of Yale’s
Information Society Project, an interdisciplinary center that studies
law and new information technologies. He also directs the Abrams
Institute for Freedom of Expression, and the Knight Law and Media
Program at Yale. Balkin is a member of the American Law Institute and
the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, and founded and edits the
group blog Balkinization. His most recent books include *The Cycles of
Constitutional Time, Democracy and Dysfunction* (with Sanford
Levinson), *Processes of Constitutional Decisionmaking* (7th ed. with
Brest, Levinson, Amar, and Siegel), *Living Originalism*,
and *Constitutional Redemption: Political Faith in an Unjust World*.  
  
**Bob Bauer (Co-Chair)**  
Bob Bauer is Professor of Practice and Distinguished Scholar in
Residence at the New York University School of Law and Co-Director of
NYU Law’s Legislative and Regulatory Process Clinic. Bauer served as
White House Counsel to President Obama from 2009 to 2011. In 2013, the
President named him to be Co-Chair of the Presidential Commission on
Election Administration. He is co-author with Jack Goldsmith of *After
Trump: Reconstructing the Presidency* (2020), books on federal campaign
finance and numerous articles on law and politics for legal periodicals.
He has co-authored numerous bipartisan reports on policy and legal
reform, including “The American Voting Experience: Report and
Recommendations of the Presidential Commission on Election
Administration” (Presidential Commission on Election Administration,
2014); “The State of Campaign Finance in the United States” (Bipartisan
Policy Center, 2018); and “Democratizing the Debates” (Annenberg Working
Group on Presidential Campaign Debate Reform, 2015); ; He is a
Contributing Editor of *Lawfare* and has published opinion pieces on
constitutional and political law issues in *The New York Times*, *The
Washington Post*, and *The Atlantic*, among other publications.  
  
**William Baude**  
William Baude is a Professor of Law and Faculty Director of the
Constitutional Law Institute at the University of Chicago Law School,
where he teaches federal courts, constitutional law, conflicts of law,
and elements of the law. His most recent articles include *Adjudication
Outside Article III*, and *Is Quasi-Judicial Immunity Qualified
Immunity?* He is also the co-editor of the textbook, *The Constitution
of the United States*, and an Affiliated Scholar at the Center for the
Study of Constitutional Originalism. He is a graduate of the University
of Chicago and the Yale Law School, and a former clerk for then-Judge
Michael McConnell and Chief Justice John Roberts.   
  
**Elise Boddie**  
Elise Boddie is a Professor of Law and Judge Robert L. Carter Scholar at
Rutgers University. An award-winning scholar, Boddie teaches and writes
about constitutional law and civil rights and has published in leading
law reviews. Her commentary has appeared multiple times in *The New York
Times*, as well as in *The Washington Post*, among other national news
outlets. Boddie has served on the national board of the American
Constitution Society and the board of the New Jersey Institute for
Social Justice and is the founder and director of The Inclusion Project
at Rutgers. Before joining the Rutgers faculty, Boddie was Director of
Litigation for the NAACP Legal Defense & Educational Fund, Inc. and
supervised its nationwide litigation program, including its advocacy in
several major U.S. Supreme Court cases. An honors graduate of Harvard
Law School and Yale, she also holds a master’s degree in public policy
from the Harvard Kennedy School of Government. Boddie clerked for Judge
Robert L. Carter in the Southern District of New York. She is a member
of the American Law Institute and an American Bar Foundation Fellow. In
2016, Rutgers University President Barchi appointed Boddie a Henry
Rutgers Professor in recognition of her scholarship, teaching, and
service. In 2021, Boddie was named the founding Newark Director of
Rutgers University’s Institute for the Study of Global Racial Justice.  
  
**Guy-Uriel E. Charles**  
Guy-Uriel E. Charles is the Edward and Ellen Schwarzman Professor of Law
at Duke Law School. He writes about the relationship between law and
political power and law’s role in addressing racial subordination. He
teaches courses on civil procedure; election law; constitutional law;
race and law; legislation and statutory interpretation; law, economics,
and politics; and law, identity, and politics. He is currently working
on book, with Luis Fuentes-Rohwer, on the past and future of voting
rights, under contract with Cambridge University Press. He is also
co-editing, with Aziza Ahmed, a handbook entitled *Race, Racism, and the
Law*, under contract with Edward Elgar Publishing. This book will survey
the current state of research on race and the law in the United States
and aims to influence the intellectual agenda of the field. He clerked
on the Sixth Circuit for the late Judge Damon J. Keith. He has published
numerous articles in top law journals. He is the co-author of two
leading casebooks and two edited volumes. He is also a member of the
American Law Institute. On July 1, 2021, he will become the inaugural
Charles J. Ogletree Jr. Professor of Law at Harvard Law School.  
  
**Andrew Manuel Crespo**  
Andrew Manuel Crespo is a Professor of Law at Harvard University where
he teaches and writes about criminal law and procedure. Professor
Crespo’s scholarship has been published in multiple leading academic
journals including the *Harvard Law Review*, the *Yale Law Journal*, and
the *Columbia Law Review*. Prior to beginning his academic career,
Professor Crespo served as a Staff Attorney with the Public Defender
Service for the District of Columbia, where he represented over one
hundred people accused of crimes who could not afford a lawyer.
Professor Crespo graduated magna cum laude from Harvard Law School,
where he served as president of the *Harvard Law Review* and was the
first Latino to hold that position. Following law school, he served as a
law clerk to Judge Stephen Reinhardt of the U.S. Court of Appeals for
the Ninth Circuit before going on to serve for two years as a law clerk
at the United States Supreme Court, first to Associate Justice Stephen
Breyer and then to Associate Justice Elena Kagan during her inaugural
term on the Court.  
  
**Walter Dellinger**  
Walter Dellinger is the Douglas Maggs Emeritus Professor of Law at Duke
University and a Partner in the firm of O’Melveny & Myers. He was named
one of the 100 Most Influential Lawyers in America by the National Law
Journal and is the recipient of Lifetime Achievement Awards from the
American Lawyer, the American Constitution Society and the Mississippi
Center for Justice. Dellinger served in the White House and as Assistant
Attorney General and head of the Office of Legal Counsel (OLC) from 1993
to 1996. He was acting Solicitor General for the 1996-97 Term of the US
Supreme Court, He has argued 25 cases before the United States Supreme
Court and has testified more than 30 times before committees of
Congress. He has published in academic journals including the Harvard
Law Review, the Yale Law Journal and the Duke Law Journal, and has
written extensively for the *Washington Post*, *The New York Times*,
the *Wall Street Journal*, *Slate*, and other publications. In 1987-88
he was a scholar at the National Humanities Center and has lectured at
universities throughout the United States and other countries including
China, Belgium, Netherlands, Germany, Mexico, Italy, Brazil, and
Denmark. He graduated from University of North Carolina and Yale Law
School and served as law clerk to Supreme Court Justice Hugo Black.  
  
**Justin Driver**  
Justin Driver is the Robert R. Slaughter Professor of Law at Yale Law
School. He teaches and writes in the area of constitutional law,
education law, and prison law. His book, *The Schoolhouse Gate: Public
Education, the Supreme Court, and the Battle for the American Mind*, was
selected as a *Washington Post* Notable Book of the Year, an Editors’
Choice of the *New York Times Book Review*, and received the Steven S.
Goldberg Award for Distinguished Scholarship in Education Law, among
numerous other honors. A recipient of the American Society for Legal
History’s William Nelson Cromwell Article Prize, he has a distinguished
publication record in the nation’s leading law reviews and has also
written extensively for general audiences. He is an editor of
the *Supreme Court Review and an elected member of the American Law
Institute*. He holds degrees from Brown, Oxford (where he was a Marshall
Scholar), Duke (where he received certification to teach public school),
and Harvard Law School (where he was an editor of the *Harvard Law
Review*). After graduating from Harvard, he clerked for Judge Merrick
Garland, Justice Sandra Day O’Connor (Ret.), and Justice Stephen
Breyer.  
  
**Richard H. Fallon, Jr.**  
Richard H. Fallon, Jr., joined the Harvard Law School faculty as an
assistant professor in 1982 and is currently Story Professor of Law. He
is also an Affiliate Professor in the Harvard University Government
Department. Fallon is a graduate of Yale University and Yale Law School.
He also earned a B.A. degree in Philosophy, Politics, and Economics from
Oxford University, which he attended as a Rhodes Scholar. Before
entering teaching, Fallon served as a law clerk to Judge J. Skelly
Wright and to Justice Lewis F. Powell of the United States Supreme
Court. Fallon has written extensively about Constitutional Law and
Federal Courts Law. He is the author of *The Nature of Constitutional
Rights: The Invention and Logic of Strict Judicial Scrutiny* (Cambridge
University Press, 2019); *Law and Legitimacy in the Supreme
Court* (Harvard University Press, 2018), *The Dynamic
Constitution* (Cambridge University Press, 2d ed. 2013),
and *Implementing the Constitution* (Harvard University Press, 2001) and
a co-editor of *Hart & Wechsler’s The Federal Courts and the Federal
System* (7<sup>th</sup> ed. 2015). Fallon is a fellow of the American
Academy of Arts and Sciences and a member of the American Law Institute.
He is a two-time winner of Harvard Law School’s Sacks-Freund Award,
which is voted annually by the School’s graduating class to honor
excellence in teaching. In 2021, the Federal Courts Section of the
American Association of Law Schools honored Fallon with its lifetime
achievement award.  
  
**Caroline Fredrickson**  
Caroline Fredrickson is a Distinguished Visiting Professor from Practice
at Georgetown Law and a Senior Fellow at the Brennan Center for Justice.
Caroline Fredrickson served as the President of the American
Constitution Society from 2009-2019. Fredrickson has published works on
many legal and constitutional issues and is a frequent guest on
television and radio, including serving as a regular on-air commentator
on impeachment. Before joining ACS, Fredrickson served as the Director
of the ACLU’s Washington Legislative Office and as General Counsel and
Legal Director of NARAL Pro-Choice America. In addition, she served as
the Chief of Staff to Senator Maria Cantwell, of Washington, and Deputy
Chief of Staff to then-Senate Democratic Leader Tom Daschle, of South
Dakota. During the Clinton Administration, she served as Special
Assistant to the President for Legislative Affairs. Fredrickson is
currently an elected member of the American Law Institute, co-chair of
the National Constitution Center’s Coalition of Freedom Advisory Board,
a member of If/When/How’s Advisory Board, and on the boards of American
Oversight and the National Institute of Money and Politics. In 2015
Fredrickson was appointed a member of the Yale Les Aspin Fellowship
Committee. Fredrickson received her J.D. from Columbia Law School with
honors and her B.A. from Yale University in Russian and East European
Studies summa cum laude, phi beta kappa. She clerked for the Hon. James
L. Oakes of the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit.  
  
**Heather Gerken**  
Heather Gerken is the Dean and Sol & Lillian Goldman Professor of Law at
Yale Law School and one of the country’s leading experts on
constitutional law and election law. A founder of the “nationalist
school” of federalism, her work focuses on federalism, diversity, and
dissent. Gerken’s work has been featured in the *Harvard Law Review*,
the *Yale Law Journal*, and the *Stanford Law Review* as well as *The
Atlantic*, *TheBoston Globe*, NPR, and *TheNew York Times*. In
2017, *Politico* Magazine named Gerken one of The Politico 50, a list of
idea makers in American politics. At Yale, she founded and runs the
country’s most innovative clinic in local government law, the San
Francisco Affirmative Litigation Project (SFALP). Gerken is also a
renowned teacher who has won awards at both Yale and Harvard. She was
named one of the nation’s “twenty-six best law teachers” in a book
published by the Harvard University Press. She became dean of Yale Law
School on July 1, 2017.  
  
**Nancy Gertner**  
Nancy Gertner was United States District Court Judge (D. Mass.) from
1994-2011. She retired to join the faculty at Harvard Law School and has
been a Visiting Lecturer at Yale Law School. Prior to 1994, Gertner was
a civil rights and criminal defense lawyer. Named one of “The Most
Influential Lawyers of the Past 25 Years” by Massachusetts Lawyers
Weekly, she has published widely on sentencing, discrimination, forensic
evidence, women’s rights, and the jury system. Her autobiography, “In
Defense of Women: Memoirs of an Unrepentant Advocate,” (Beacon Press)
was published in 2011. She is coauthor of “The Law of Juries” (Thomson
Reuters, 2021). She is the author of an edited volume of the dissenting
and majority opinions of Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg (Talbot,
forthcoming). She is writing a memoir, “Incomplete Sentences” (Beacon,
forthcoming) about the men she has sentenced. A graduate of Barnard
College, with a M.A in Political Science and J.D. from Yale, she clerked
for Justice Luther Swygert, Chief Judge, 7th Circuit. She has received
numerous awards, including the ABA’s Margaret Brent Award, the National
Association of Women Lawyers’ Arabella Babb Mansfield Award, and the
Thurgood Marshall Award from the American Bar Association. In October
2014, she was a resident scholar at the Rockefeller Foundation in
Bellagio, Italy.   
  
**Jack Goldsmith**  
Jack Goldsmith is the Learned Hand Professor of Law at Harvard Law
School, a Senior Fellow at the Hoover Institution, and co-founder of
Lawfare. He teaches and writes about national security law, presidential
power, cybersecurity, international law, internet law, foreign relations
law, and federal courts. Before coming to Harvard, Professor Goldsmith
served as Assistant Attorney General, Office of Legal Counsel from
2003-2004, and Special Counsel to the Department of Defense from
2002-2003.  
  
**Thomas B. Griffith**  
Thomas B. Griffith served on the U. S. Court of Appeals for the D. C.
Circuit from 2005 – 2020. He is now Special Counsel at Hunton Andrews
Kurth, a Senior Advisor to the National Institute for Civil Discourse,
and a Lecturer on Law at Harvard Law School. During his tenure on the
D.C. Circuit, Judge Griffith served on the Judicial Conference’s
Committee on the Judicial Branch, which is concerned with the federal
judiciary’s relationship to the Executive Branch and Congress, and the
Code of Conduct Committee, which sets the ethical standards that govern
the federal judiciary. Prior to his appointment to the D.C. Circuit,
Judge Griffith was the General Counsel of Brigham Young University.
Previously he served as Senate Legal Counsel, the nonpartisan chief
legal officer of the U.S. Senate, and before that was a partner at
Wiley, Rein & Fielding. Judge Griffith has long been active in the
American Bar Association’s rule of law projects in Eastern Europe and
Eurasia and is currently a member of the International Advisory Board of
the CEELI Institute in Prague. He is a graduate of Brigham Young
University and the University of Virginia School of Law.  
  
**Tara Leigh Grove**  
Tara Leigh Grove is the Charles E. Tweedy, Jr., Endowed Chairholder of
Law and Director of the Program in Constitutional Studies at the
University of Alabama School of Law. After graduating *summa cum
laude* from Duke University and *magna cum laude* from Harvard Law
School, Grove clerked for Judge Emilio Garza of the U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Fifth Circuit. She then spent four years as an appellate
attorney for the U.S. Department of Justice, arguing fifteen cases in
the courts of appeals. Grove has written extensively about the federal
judiciary, exploring issues related to judicial legitimacy and judicial
independence. Grove’s work has been published in prestigious law
journals, such as the *Harvard Law Review*, the *Columbia Law Review*,
the *University of Pennsylvania Law Review*, the *New York University
Law Review*, the *Cornell Law Review*, and the *Vanderbilt Law Review*.
Grove has served as a visiting professor at Harvard Law School and
Northwestern Pritzker School of Law.  
  
**Bert I. Huang**  
Bert I. Huang is Michael I. Sovern Professor of Law at Columbia
University, where he received the Reese Prize for Excellence in Teaching
from the law school’s graduating class. The university has also
recognized him with its Presidential Award for Outstanding Teaching. At
Columbia, he created the Courts & Legal Process colloquium to bring
judges, students, and faculty together to discuss new academic research
about the judiciary; and he previously served as a vice dean. He has
also taught at Harvard. He served as the president of the Harvard Law
Review and as a law clerk for Justice David H. Souter of the U.S.
Supreme Court. He also clerked for Judge Michael Boudin of the U.S.
Court of Appeals for the First Circuit. He completed his J.D. and Ph.D.
at Harvard University, where he was a Paul & Daisy Soros Fellow. After
receiving his A.B. from Harvard, he was a Marshall Scholar at the
University of Oxford and worked for the White House Council of Economic
Advisers.  
  
**Sherrilyn Ifill**  
Sherrilyn Ifill is the President & Director-Counsel of the NAACP Legal
Defense & Educational Fund, Inc. (LDF), the nation’s oldest and premier
civil rights law organization fighting for racial justice and equality.
Ifill began her career as a Fellow at the American Civil Liberties
Union, and then as an Assistant Counsel at LDF where she litigated
voting rights cases in the South. In 1993 Ifill joined the faculty at
University of Maryland School of Law, where she taught civil procedure,
constitutional law, and a broad range of civil rights and clinical
offerings. Her scholarship focused on the critical importance of a
racially diverse judiciary to the integrity of judicial decision-making.
Ifill also studies and writes about racial violence. Her critically
acclaimed book, *On The Courthouse Lawn: Confronting The Legacy Of
Lynching In The 21st Century*, is credited with inspiring contemporary
conversations about lynching and reconciliation. Since returning to LDF
as its 7th President & Director-Counsel in 2013, Ifill has led the
organization’s bold advocacy in the federal courts, including the U.S.
Supreme Court, on behalf of clients fighting voter suppression, racial
discrimination in the criminal justice system, and a broad array of
other urgent civil rights issues. Ifill is a member of the American Law
Institute and the American Academy of Arts & Sciences. She holds an
undergraduate degree from Vassar College, a J.D. from New York
University School of Law, and numerous honorary doctorates.  
  
**Michael S. Kang**  
Michael S. Kang is the William G. and Virginia K. Karnes Research
Professor at Northwestern Pritzker School of Law and nationally
recognized expert on campaign finance, voting rights, redistricting,
judicial elections, and corporate governance. His research has been
published widely in leading law journals and featured in *TheNew York
Times*, *The Washington Post*, and *Forbes*, among others. His recent
work focuses on partisan gerrymandering; the influence of party and
campaign finance on elected judges; the de-regulation of campaign
finance after Citizens United; and so-called “sore loser laws” that
restrict losing primary candidates from running in the general election.
Kang previously served as the Thomas Simmons Professor of Law at Emory
University School of Law. He received his BA and JD from the University
of Chicago, where he served as technical editor of the Law Review and
graduated Order of the Coif. He also received a PhD in government from
Harvard University and an MA from the University of Illinois. After law
school, he clerked for Judge Kanne on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the
Seventh Circuit and worked in private practice at Ropes & Gray in
Boston.  
  
**Olatunde Johnson**  
Olatunde Johnson is the Jerome B. Sherman Professor of Law at Columbia
Law School where she teaches and writes about legislation,
administrative law, antidiscrimination law, litigation, and inequality
in the United States. In February 2020, she was appointed by the United
States Department of Justice to the Resolutions Committee honoring
Justice John Paul Stevens. In 2016, she was awarded Columbia
University’s Presidential Award for Outstanding Teaching, and Columbia
Law School’s Willis L.M. Reese Prize for Excellence in Teaching.
Previously, Professor Johnson served as constitutional and civil rights
counsel to Senator Edward M. Kennedy on the Senate Judiciary Committee
and as an attorney at the NAACP Legal Defense Fund. Professor Johnson
graduated from Yale University and from Stanford Law School. After law
school, she clerked for Judge David Tatel on the U.S. Court of Appeals
for the D.C. Circuit and for Justice John Paul Stevens on the United
States Supreme Court.   
  
**Alison L. LaCroix**  
Alison L. LaCroix is the Robert Newton Reid Professor of Law at the
University of Chicago Law School. She is also an Associate Member of the
University of Chicago Department of History. Professor LaCroix is the
author of *The Ideological Origins of American Federalism *(Harvard
University Press, 2010), and in 2018 she was awarded a National
Endowment for the Humanities Fellowship for her current book project,
titled *The Interbellum Constitution: Union, Commerce, and Slavery From
the Long Founding Moment to the Civil War* (Yale University Press,
forthcoming). Before joining the University of Chicago faculty in 2006,
she practiced in the litigation department at Debevoise & Plimpton in
New York. Professor LaCroix received her B.A. and J.D. from Yale
University, and her A.M. and Ph.D. from Harvard University.  
  
**Margaret H. Lemos**  
Maggie Lemos is the Robert G. Seaks LL.B. ’34 Professor of Law, Senior
Associate Dean for Faculty and Research, and faculty co-advisor for the
Bolch Judicial Institute at Duke Law School. She is a scholar of
constitutional law, legal institutions, and procedure. Her current
research focuses on the institutions of law interpretation and
enforcement, including both public and private lawyers, and their
effects on substantive rights. Lemos is also a co-author of a new
multidisciplinary coursebook on judicial decision making. She teaches
courses on civil procedure, legislation, and judicial process, and was
awarded Duke’s Distinguished Teaching Award in 2013. Prior to joining
the Duke Law faculty, Lemos was an associate professor at the Benjamin
N. Cardozo School of Law; a Bristow Fellow at the Office of the
Solicitor General; and a law clerk for Judge Kermit V. Lipez of the U.S.
Court of Appeals for the First Circuit, and for U.S. Supreme Court
Justice John Paul Stevens. She received her J.D. from New York
University School of Law and her B.A. from Brown University.  
  
**David F. Levi**  
David F. Levi is the Levi Family Professor of Law and Judicial Studies
and Director of the Bolch Judicial Institute at Duke Law School. Levi
was previously the James B. Duke and Benjamin N. Duke Dean of the Duke
Law School. He served as dean for 11 years from 2007-2018. Prior to his
appointment at Duke, Levi was the Chief United States District Judge for
the Eastern District of California with chambers in Sacramento. He was
appointed to the district court in 1990. From 1986-1990 he was the
United States Attorney for the Eastern District of California. Following
graduation from Stanford Law School in 1980, Levi served as a law clerk
to Judge Ben C. Duniway of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth
Circuit, and then to Justice Lewis F. Powell, Jr., of the U.S. Supreme
Court. Levi has served as member and chair of two U.S. Judicial
Conference committees — the Advisory Committee on the Civil Rules and
the Standing Committee on the Rules of Practice and Procedure. He was
chair of the American Bar Association’s Standing Committee on the
American Judicial System (2014-2016). He is an elected fellow of the
American Academy of Arts and Sciences. He is the author or co-author of
several books, articles, and published speeches mostly on the judiciary,
judicial independence, and judicial decision-making. He is President of
the American Law Institute.  
  
**Trevor W. Morrison**  
Trevor Morrison serves as Dean of NYU School of Law, where he is also
the Eric M. and Laurie B. Roth Professor of Law. He previously held
faculty appointments at Cornell Law School and Columbia Law School.
Morrison’s research and teaching interests are in constitutional law
(especially separation of powers), federal courts, and the law of the
executive branch. After graduating from Columbia Law School, he served
as a law clerk to Judge Betty Fletcher of the U.S. Court of Appeals for
the Ninth Circuit and to Justice Ruth Bader Ginsburg of the U.S. Supreme
Court. Between those clerkships, he was a Bristow Fellow in the U.S.
Justice Department’s Office of the Solicitor General, an
attorney-adviser in the Justice Department’s Office of Legal Counsel,
and an associate at Wilmer, Cutler & Pickering (now WilmerHale).
Morrison also served as associate counsel to President Barack Obama. He
is a fellow of the American Academy of Arts & Sciences and a member of
the American Law Institute and the Council on Foreign Relations.  
  
**Caleb Nelson**  
Caleb Nelson is the Emerson G. Spies Distinguished Professor of Law and
the Caddell and Chapman Professor of Law at the University of Virginia
School of Law. He earned his A.B. from Harvard College and his J.D. from
Yale Law School. After law school, he clerked for Judge Stephen F.
Williams on the United States Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit and
Justice Clarence Thomas on the United States Supreme Court. He joined
the Virginia faculty in 1998. At Virginia, he has taught Federal Courts,
Civil Procedure, Legislation, and Constitutional Law. His articles have
appeared in the *Columbia Law Review*, the *Harvard Law Review*,
the *Michigan Law Review*, the *NYU Law Review*, the *University of
Chicago Law Review*, the *University of Pennsylvania Law
Review* (forthcoming), the *Virginia Law Review*, and the *Yale Law
Journal*. He is also the author of a casebook on statutory
interpretation, published by Foundation Press. He is a member of the
American Law Institute and a past winner of the University of Virginia’s
All-University Teaching Award. He has also taught as a visiting
professor at Harvard Law School and as the James S. Carpentier Visiting
Professor at Columbia Law School.  
  
**Richard H. Pildes**  
Professor Richard H. Pildes is Sudler Family Professor of Constitutional
Law at New York University School of Law and one of the country’s
leading experts on the legal aspects of American democracy and
government. His academic work focuses on all aspects of the political
process, as well as legal issues concerning the structure of American
government, including the powers of the President, Congress, and the
Supreme Court. His two casebooks, *The Law of Democracy* and *When
Elections Go Bad*, created the law of democracy as a field of study in
the law schools. In addition to editing the book, *The Future of the
Voting Rights Act*, he has published more than seventy academic
articles. Pildes has represented numerous clients before the Supreme
Court. He served as a law clerk at the Court to Justice Thurgood
Marshall and to Judge Abner J. Mikva of the United States Court of
Appeals for the D.C. Circuit. He has testified several times before the
United States Senate and House of Representatives. Born in Chicago, he
began his teaching career at the University of Michigan Law School,
before moving to NYU. He is an elected member of the American Academy of
Arts and Sciences and the American Law Institute, as well as a
Guggenheim Fellow.  
  
**Michael D. Ramsey**  
Michael D. Ramsey is Hugh and Hazel Darling Foundation Professor of Law
at the University of San Diego School of Law, where he teaches and
writes in the areas of constitutional law, foreign relations law, and
international law. He is the author of *The Constitution’s Text in
Foreign Affairs* (Harvard University Press 2007), co-editor
of *International Law in the U.S. Supreme Court: Continuity and
Change* (Cambridge University Press 2011), and co-author of two
casebooks, *Transnational Law and Practice* (Aspen 2015)
and *International Business Transactions: A Problem-Oriented
Coursebook* (12th ed., West 2015). His scholarly articles have appeared
in publications such as the *Yale Law Journal*, the *University of
Chicago Law Review*, the *Georgetown Law Journal* and the *American
Journal of International Law*. He received his B.A. *magna cum
laude* from Dartmouth College and his J.D. *summa cum laude* from
Stanford Law School. Prior to teaching, he served as a judicial clerk
for Judge J. Clifford Wallace of the United States Court of Appeals for
the Ninth Circuit and Justice Antonin Scalia of the United States
Supreme Court, and practiced law with the law firm of Latham & Watkins.
He has taught as a visiting professor at the University of California,
San Diego, in the Department of Political Science and at the University
of Paris – Sorbonne, in the Department of Comparative Law.  
  
**Cristina M. Rodríguez (*Co-Chair*)**  
Cristina M. Rodríguez is the Leighton Homer Surbeck Professor of Law at
Yale Law School. Her fields of research and teaching include
constitutional law and theory, immigration law and policy, and
administrative law and process. Her new book, *The President and
Immigration Law *(with Adam B. Cox) was published by Oxford University
Press in September 2020, and explores the long history of presidential
control over immigration policy and its implications for the future of
immigration law and the presidency itself. Rodríguez joined Yale Law
School in 2013 after serving for two years as Deputy Assistant Attorney
General in the Office of Legal Counsel at the U.S. Department of
Justice. She was on the faculty at the New York University School of Law
from 2004–2012 and has been Visiting Professor of Law at Stanford,
Harvard, and Columbia Law Schools. She is a member of the American
Academy of Arts and Sciences and the American Law Institute, a
non-resident fellow at the Migration Policy Institute in Washington,
D.C., and a past member of the Council on Foreign Relations. She is also
a past recipient of the Yale Law Women Award for Excellence in Teaching.
She earned her B.A. and J.D. degrees from Yale and attended Oxford
University as a Rhodes Scholar, where she received a Master of Letters
in Modern History. Following law school, Rodríguez clerked for Judge
David S. Tatel of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C. Circuit and
Justice Sandra Day O’Connor of the U.S. Supreme Court.  
  
**Kermit Roosevelt**  
Kermit Roosevelt is a professor of law at the University of Pennsylvania
Carey Law School, where he teaches constitutional law and conflict of
laws. He is a graduate of Harvard College and Yale Law School. Before
joining the Penn faculty, he practiced appellate litigation with Mayer
Brown in Chicago and clerked for D.C. Circuit Judge Stephen F. Williams
and Supreme Court Justice David H. Souter.  
  
**Bertrall Ross**  
Bertrall Ross is the Chancellor’s Professor of Law at the University of
California, Berkeley School of Law. He teaches and writes in the areas
of constitutional law, election law, administrative law, and statutory
interpretation. Ross’s research is driven by a concern about democratic
responsiveness and accountability, as well as the inclusion of
marginalized communities in administrative and political processes. His
past scholarship has been published in several books and journals,
including the *Columbia Law Review*, the *NYU Law Review*, and
the *University of Chicago Law Review*. Ross is currently working on
book projects related to separation of powers, gerrymandering, and voter
data as a tool for disfranchisement. Ross has been the recipient of the
Berkeley Law Rutter Award for Teaching Distinction, the Berlin Prize
from the American Academy in Berlin, the Princeton University Law and
Public Affairs Fellowship, the Columbia Law School Kellis Parker
Academic Fellowship, and the Marshall Scholarship. He is currently a
public member of the Administrative Conference of the United States.
Ross earned his law degree from Yale Law School and Masters degrees from
the London School of Economics and Princeton University’s School of
Public and International Affairs. Prior to joining Berkeley Law, he
clerked for Judge Dorothy Nelson of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the
Ninth Circuit and Judge Myron Thompson of the U.S. District Court for
the Middle District of Alabama.  
  
**David A. Strauss**  
David Strauss is the Gerald Ratner Distinguished Service Professor of
Law and the Faculty Director of the Supreme Court and Appellate Clinic
at the University of Chicago. He is the author of *The Living
Constitution* (Oxford University Press, 2010) and the co-author
of *Democracy and Equality: The Enduring Constitutional Vision of the
Warren Court* (Oxford University Press, 2019), and he has written many
academic and popular articles on constitutional law and related
subjects. He is a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences
and a co-editor of the *Supreme Court Review*. He has been a visiting
professor at Harvard and Georgetown. He has served as an Assistant to
the Solicitor General of the United States, in the Office of Legal
Counsel of the U.S. Department of Justice, and as Special Counsel to the
Senate Judiciary Committee. He has argued nineteen cases before the U.S.
Supreme Court.  
  
**Laurence H. Tribe**  
Laurence Tribe is the Carl M. Loeb University Professor and Professor of
Constitutional Law Emeritus at Harvard University. Tribe has taught at
Harvard since 1968 and was voted the best professor by the class of
2000. The title “University Professor” is Harvard’s highest academic
honor, awarded to a handful of professors at any given time and to fewer
than 75 professors in Harvard University’s history. Tribe clerked for
the California and U.S. Supreme Courts; was elected to the American
Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1980 and the American Philosophical
Society in 2010; helped write the constitutions of South Africa, the
Czech Republic, and the Marshall Islands; and has received eleven
honorary degrees, most recently a degree honoris causa from the
Government of Mexico in March 2011 (never before awarded to an American)
and an LL.D from Columbia University. Tribe has argued 35 cases in the
U.S. Supreme Court. He was appointed in 2010 by President Obama and
Attorney General Holder to serve as the first Senior Counselor for
Access to Justice. He has written 115 books and articles, most recently,
“To End A Presidency: The Power of Impeachment.” His treatise, “American
Constitutional Law,” has been cited more than any other legal text since
1950.  
  
**Adam White**  
Adam White is a resident scholar at the American Enterprise Institute
and an assistant professor of law at George Mason University’s Antonin
Scalia Law School, where he directs the C. Boyden Gray Center for the
Study of the Administrative State. He writes on the courts, the
Constitution, administrative law, and regulatory policy. He is a public
member of the Administrative Conference of the United States, and he
serves on the board of the Land Conservation Assistance Network.
Previously he practiced constitutional and administrative law in
Washington, D.C., and he clerked for the U.S. Court of Appeals for the
D.C. Circuit. In 2005, the *Harvard Journal of Law & Public
Policy *published his study of the Senate’s constitutional power to
grant or withhold its “advice and consent” for judicial nominations.  
  
**Keith E. Whittington**  
Keith E. Whittington is the William Nelson Cromwell Professor of
Politics at Princeton University and is currently the chair of Academic
Freedom Alliance. He works on American constitutional history, politics
and law, and on American political thought. He is the author
of *Repugnant Laws: Judicial Review of Acts of Congress from the
Founding to the Present* and *Political Foundations of Judicial
Supremacy: The Presidency, the Supreme Court, and Constitutional
Leadership in U.S. History*, among other works. He has been a visiting
professor at Harvard Law School, Georgetown University Law Center, and
the University of Texas School of Law, and he is a member of the
American Academy of Arts and Sciences. He did his undergraduate work at
the University of Texas at Austin and completed his Ph.D. in political
science at Yale University.  
  
**Michael Waldman **  
Michael Waldman is the president of the Brennan Center for Justice at
NYU School of Law. The Brennan Center is a nonpartisan law and policy
institute that works to strengthen the systems of democracy and justice
so they work for all Americans. The Center is a leading national voice
on voting rights, money in politics, criminal justice reform, and
constitutional law. Waldman has led the Center since 2005. He is the
author of *The Fight to Vote *(2016), a history of the struggle to win
voting rights for all citizens, *The Second Amendment: A
Biography* (2014), and five other books. Waldman served as director of
speechwriting for President Bill Clinton from 1995-1999, and special
assistant to the president for policy coordination from 1993-1995. He
was responsible for writing or editing nearly two thousand speeches,
including four State of the Union and two inaugural addresses. He is a
graduate of NYU School of Law and Columbia College. 

\###
