---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-04-12'
modified_time: 2021-04-12 16:17:35-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/04/12/president-biden-announces-his-intent-to-nominate-11-key-administration-leaders-on-national-security-and-law-enforcement/
published_time: 2021-04-12 16:04:48-04:00
title: "President\_Biden Announces His Intent to Nominate 11 Key Administration Leaders\
  \ on National Security and Law\_Enforcement"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Joe Biden announced his intent to nominate
11 members of his Administration to lead on national security and law
enforcement at White House and across key agencies.

The President has tapped Christy Abizaid for Director of National
Counterterrorism Center at the Office of the Director of National
Intelligence, Chris Inglis for National Cyber Director in the Executive
Office of the President, Christine Wormuth for Secretary of the Army at
the Department of Defense, Gil Cisneros for Under Secretary of Defense,
Personnel and Readiness at the Department of Defense, Anne Milgram for
Administrator of the Drug Enforcement Administration at Department of
Justice, Susanna Blume for Director of Cost Assessment and Program
Evaluation at the Department of Defense, Marcela Escobari for Assistant
Administrator for Latin America and the Caribbean at USAID, C.S. Eliot
Kang for Assistant Secretary of State for International Security and
Non-Proliferation at the Department of State, Kenneth Polite for
Assistant Attorney General for Criminal Division at the  Department of
Justice , Todd Robinson for Assistant Secretary of State, International
Narcotics and Law Enforcement Affairs at the Department of State, and
Christopher Schroeder for Assistant Attorney General for the Office of
Legal Counsel at the Department of Justice. ,

If confirmed by the Senate, Wormuth would be the first woman to serve as
Secretary of the Army

**<u>Christy Abizaid, Nominee for Director of National Counterterrorism
Center, Office of the Director of National Intelligence</u>**

Christine Abizaid spent nearly a decade as a counterterrorism
intelligence officer at the Defense Intelligence Agency before
transitioning to the National Security Council, first as a Director for
Counterterrorism and then as the Senior Policy Advisor to the Assistant
to the President for Homeland Security and Counterterrorism.  In 2014,
she was appointed by the Secretary of Defense as the Deputy Assistant
Secretary of Defense for Afghanistan, Pakistan, and Central Asia.  Her
last Government posting was leading the Defense Innovation Unit’s newly
established presence in Austin, Texas.  Abizaid joined Dell Technologies
in 2017 and currently serves as an executive in its Global Operations
organization.  She holds a B.A. in Psychology from the University of
California, San Diego and a M.A. in International Policy Studies from
Stanford University.

**<u>Chris Inglis, Nominee for National Cyber Director, Executive Office
of the President</u>**

Chris Inglis currently serves as a U. S. Naval Academy Looker
Distinguished Visiting Professor for Cyber Studies, as a managing
director at Paladin Capital, a member of the boards of several public
and private corporations, and as a Commissioner on the U.S. Cyberspace
Solarium Commission.  He retired from the Department of Defense in
January 2014 after 41 years of federal service, including 28 years at
the National Security Agency and seven and a half years as its Deputy
Director.  He served as a member of the Department of Defense Science
Board and as a National Intelligence University trustee until early
2021.

A 1976 graduate of the U.S. Air Force Academy, Inglis holds advanced
degrees in engineering and computer science from Columbia University,
Johns Hopkins University, and the George Washington University. Inglis’
military career includes 30 years of service in the US Air Force and Air
National Guard — from which he retired as a command pilot at the rank of
Brigadier General.  He and his wife Anna have three grown children and
reside in Annapolis, MD. 

**<u>Christine Wormuth, Nominee for Secretary of the Army, Department of
Defense</u>**

Christine E. Wormuth served as Under Secretary of Defense (Policy)
during the Obama-Biden Administration, the third most senior civilian
position in the Department of Defense, advising two Secretaries of
Defense on the full range of foreign policy and national security
issues.  She also served as the senior director for defense policy on
the National Security Council, helping shape the 2012 Defense Strategic
Guidance that began rebalancing the military toward the Indo-Pacific.
She joined the Obama-Biden Administration in 2009 as the Principal
Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Homeland Defense and Civil
Support. Previously, Wormuth was a senior fellow at the Center for
Strategic and International Studies, worked in the private sector, and
served for almost seven years as a civil servant in the Office of the
Secretary of Defense, beginning as a Presidential Management Fellow.

Wormuth is currently Director of the International Security and Defense
Policy Center at the RAND Corporation.  She teaches as an adjunct
professor in Georgetown University’s graduate program in security
studies and serves on the honorary advisory board of the Leadership
Committee for Women in National Security (LCWINS).  In January 2021, she
led the Biden-Harris Defense Agency Review Team and she has twice
received the Department of Defense Medal for Distinguished Public
Service. After growing up in College Station, Texas, Wormuth graduated
from Williams College in Massachusetts and has a master’s degree in
public policy from the University of Maryland.

**<u>Gil Cisneros, Nominee for Under Secretary of Defense, Personnel and
Readiness, Department of Defense</u>**

Gilbert Cisneros enlisted in the United States Navy in 1989 after
graduating from high school.  He was selected for the Broadened
Opportunity for Officer Selection and Training Program, received a Navy
R.O.T.C. scholarship and was commissioned as an Officer in the United
States Navy in 1994.  In 2010, with his wife Jacki, he started The
Gilbert & Jacki Cisneros Foundation, focused on helping students find a
path to higher education with scholarships and college access programs. 
Along with supporting education initiatives, they have supported the
USO, an organization that supports our active duty troops.  In 2015, he
founded The Cisneros Hispanic Leadership Institute at his alma mater The
George Washington University, which not only provides scholarships for
Latino students, but is also becoming a leading institute for policy
issues that affect the Latino community.

As a Congressman representing CA – 39, Cisneros served on both the Armed
Services and Veterans’ Affairs Committees, and was a strong advocate,
for our veterans, servicemembers and our military families.   He fought
to address the issue of mental health and suicide amongst both our
veterans and service members.  After the death of Spc. Venessa Guillén,
he was invited to participate in discussions about the status of Latinos
in the Army and helped to introduce the I Am Vanessa Guillén Act to make
sexual harassment a crime within the Uniform Code of Military Justice. 
He has been an advocate for military families on issues of housing,
child abuse, and exceptional family members.  He is committed to
building a diverse military, and removing extremism from our ranks. 

He has been married to his wife Jacki for over 15 years, they have twin
sons, Christopher and Alexander, and reside in Yorba Linda, CA. 
Cisneros has a Bachelor’s degree in political science, from the George
Washington University, an M.B.A. from Regis University, and a Masters in
Urban Education Policy from Brown University. 

**<u>Anne Milgram, Nominee for Administrator, Drug Enforcement
Administration, Department of Justice</u>**

Anne Milgram has had a distinguished career as a state, local, and
federal prosecutor.  As New Jersey’s Attorney General from 2007-2010,
Milgram was New Jersey’s chief law enforcement officer and led the
9,000-person Department of Law & Public Safety, overseeing the New
Jersey State Police and the State Division of Criminal Justice.  Milgram
also had oversight responsibility for state and county prosecutors and
more than 30,000 local law enforcement officers statewide.  During her
career, Milgram spearheaded investigations into human trafficking,
narcotics trafficking, street gangs, violent and organized crime, public
corruption, securities fraud, mortgage fraud, and civil rights
violations. Milgram began her career as an Assistant District Attorney
in the Manhattan District Attorney’s Office.  She went on to serve as a
federal prosecutor in the United States Department of Justice, where she
became Special Litigation Counsel for the prosecution of human
trafficking crimes.  In that role, Milgram partnered with United States
Attorney’s Offices in the Eastern District of New York, New Jersey, and
New Hampshire to prosecute some of the first sex trafficking and forced
labor cases under the Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000.

Milgram is currently a Professor of Practice and Distinguished Scholar
in Residence at New York University School of Law, where she teaches
seminars on human trafficking and local criminal prosecution and leads
the Criminal Justice Lab.  The Lab, in partnership with local
jurisdictions, has designed and built a screening tool that can be used
by law enforcement to identify individuals suffering from mental health
and substance abuse disorders who can safely be diverted into treatment.
Milgram is also Special Counsel to Lowenstein Sandler LLP and currently
serves as a member of the board of Covenant House International, the
Century Foundation, the Center for Policing Equity, and the John Jay
College of Criminal Justice.  She lives in New York City with her
husband and their wonderful 6-year-old son.

**<u>Susanna Blume, Nominee for Director of Cost Assessment and Program
Evaluation, Department of Defense</u>**

Susanna V. Blume is currently performing the duties of the Director,
Cost Assessment and Program Evaluation at the U.S. Department of
Defense.  Prior to taking on this role, Blume was Senior Fellow and
Director of the Defense Program at the Center for a New American
Security (CNAS), where her research focused on the alignment of defense
strategy, planning, and resources.  Prior to joining CNAS, Blume served
as Deputy Chief of Staff for Programs and Plans to the Deputy Secretary
of Defense, whom she advised on programming and budget issues, global
force management, operational and strategic planning, force posture, and
acquisition policy. She has also served in the Office of the Under
Secretary of Defense for Policy and in the Office of the Deputy
Assistant Secretary of Defense for Plans and Posture.

Blume holds a master’s degree in international studies from the Johns
Hopkins University School of Advanced International Studies, a law
degree from the George Washington University Law School, and a
bachelor’s degree in the history of art from the Johns Hopkins
University.

**<u>Marcela Escobari, Nominee for Assistant Administrator for Latin
America and the Caribbean, USAID</u>**

For over two decades, the Hon. Marcela Escobari led organizations that
help regions chart a path towards prosperity. She served in the
Obama-Biden Administration as Assistant Administrator of USAID’s Bureau
for Latin America and the Caribbean. During her time there, Escobari
reinforced U.S. support for Peace Colombia, established a long-term
development plan for Haiti, and prepared a proactive strategy to
confront the humanitarian and political crisis in Venezuela. In response
to Congress’ doubling of funding to Central America, she led changes in
strategy, organization and execution to combat root causes of poverty
and migration in the region.

Prior to serving in government, Escobari was Executive Director at the
Center for International Development at Harvard University. During her
tenure, the Center launched projects in 17 countries across five
continents focused on unlocking constraints to economic growth. Most
recently, as a senior fellow at Brookings, she created the Workforce of
the Future initiative and applied international economic development
models to map the industrial path of American cities and identify
policies to help workers prosper in the face of evolving labor markets.
She worked with US local leaders, companies and policy makers, including
in Idaho and Texas, to strengthen paths to the middle class. 

Her career has spanned the private sector, government and academia, with
a common thread of producing growth that is inclusive and sustainable. 
She began her career as an investment banker at J.P. Morgan and worked
across the globe on export competitiveness projects as a strategy
consultant.  The World Economic Forum named her a Young Global Leader in
2013. She co-authored the book “In the River They Swim: Essays from
around the World on Enterprise Solutions to Poverty,” holds a B.A. in
economics from Swarthmore College and an M.A. in public policy from the
Harvard Kennedy School.

**<u>C.S. Eliot Kang, Nominee for Assistant Secretary of State,
International Security and Non-Proliferation, Department of State</u>**

C.S. Eliot Kang, a career member of the Senior Executive Service,
currently serves as Acting Assistant Secretary, Bureau of International
Security and Non-Proliferation at the U.S. Department of State.  He also
has been performing the duties of Under Secretary for Arms Control and
International Security since January 2021.  He has worked in the Bureau
of International Security and Non-Proliferation since 2005 in a number
of key positions, including Acting Assistant Secretary, Principal Deputy
Assistant Secretary, Deputy Assistant Secretary and Special Adviser. 
Previously, he worked in the U.S. Department of State’s Bureau of Arms
Control and Bureau of Political-Military Affairs.  A former tenured
professor, he taught international security at the University of
Pennsylvania and Northern Illinois University and held fellowships at
the Council on Foreign Relations and the Brookings Institution.  Kang
received his Ph.D. from Yale University.  He also studied at Princeton
University and received his A.B., summa cum laude, from Cornell
University.  Kang is the recipient of numerous Department awards,
including a Presidential Rank Award.  He speaks Korean and Japanese.

**<u>Kenneth Polite, Nominee for Assistant Attorney General for Criminal
Division, Department of Justice</u>**

Kenneth A. Polite is currently a partner at Morgan, Lewis & Bockius LLP.
During the Obama/Biden administration, he served as the United States
Attorney for the Eastern District of Louisiana, where he championed
prevention, reentry, and enforcement in improving public safety, and
advised Department of Justice leadership as a member of the Attorney
General’s Advisory Committee. Polite has also served as an Assistant
United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York, where he
focused on prosecuting public corruption and organized crime, and
clerked for the Honorable Thomas L. Ambro of the United States Court of
Appeals for the Third Circuit.

In private practice, Polite has been a white collar defense attorney in
Pennsylvania, New York, and Louisiana, focusing on internal
investigations and corporate compliance. He has also served as the Vice
President and Chief Compliance Officer for Entergy Corporation. A
supporter and active board member of several non-profit organizations,
Polite has received an honorary doctorate degree in recognition of his
public service. Born and raised in New Orleans, he is a graduate of
Harvard University and Georgetown University Law Center.

**<u>Todd Robinson, Nominee for Assistant Secretary of State,
International Narcotics and Law Enforcement Affairs, Department of
State</u>**

Todd Robinson, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service with the
rank of Career Minister, currently serves as Director of the
International Student Management Office, National Defense University. 
He was a Senior Advisor for Central America in the U.S. State
Department’s Bureau of Western Hemisphere Affairs in Washington. D.C. 
Robinson also served as Chargé d’Affaires a.i. in Caracas, Venezuela. 
Previously, Robinson was U.S. Ambassador to the Republic of Guatemala
from 2014 to 2017.  Prior to that, he served as Deputy Assistant
Secretary of State in the Bureau of International Narcotics and Law
Enforcement Affairs.  Robinson also served as Deputy Chief of Mission at
the U.S. Embassy in Guatemala; as Consul General and Principal Officer
at the U.S. Consulate in Barcelona, Spain; and as Chief of the Political
and Economic Section in the U.S. Embassy in Tirana, Albania.  Other
overseas postings include the Dominican Republic, Bolivia, Vatican City,
Italy, El Salvador, and Colombia.  Earlier in his career, Robinson
served in the Department’s Operations Center and as a Special Assistant
to former Secretary of State Albright.  He is the recipient of a
Presidential Rank Award.  A native of New Jersey, he is a graduate of
the Georgetown University School of Foreign Service and speaks Spanish,
Italian, and Albanian.

**<u>Christopher Schroeder, Nominee for Assistant Attorney General for
the Office of Legal Counsel, Department of Justice</u>**

Christopher H. Schroeder is Charles S. Murphy Emeritus Professor of Law
and Emeritus Professor of Public Policy Studies.  From 1994-1997,
Schroeder served as deputy and acting assistant attorney general in the
Office of Legal Counsel at the Department of Justice.  From 2010-2013,
he served as assistant attorney general in the Office of Legal Policy.
He has also served as Chief Counsel for the Senate Judiciary Committee,
1992-1993.  His scholarship on constitutional law and separation of
powers includes Keeping Faith with the Constitution, co-authored with
Pamela Karlan and Goodwin Liu, as well as Presidential Power Stories,
co-edited with Curtis Bradley.   

Schroeder has also written on a broad range of topics in environmental
law and policy, risk regulation, and tort theory, as well as on
Congressional procedures and affairs.  He is co-author of a leading
environmental law casebook, Environmental Regulation: Law, Science and
Policy (8th Edition, 2018), with Robert Percival, Alan Miller and James
Leape.

Schroeder received his B.A. degree from Princeton University in 1968, a
M. Div. from Yale University in 1971, and his J.D. degree from
University of California, Berkeley in 1974, where he was editor-in-chief
of the California Law Review.  He and his wife, Katharine T. Bartlett,
divide their time between Durham, N.C. and Belfast, Maine.

\###
