---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-04-23'
modified_time: 2021-04-23 15:40:02-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/04/23/president-biden-announces-key-administration-nominations-in-national-security/
published_time: 2021-04-23 15:40:01-04:00
title: President Biden Announces Key Administration Nominations in National Security
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Joe Biden announced his intent to nominate
the following individuals to serve in key national security positions in
his Administration.

-   Brenda Sue Fulton, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for Manpower and
    Reserve Affairs, Department of Defense
-   Donald Lu, Nominee for Assistant Secretary, Bureau of South and
    Central Asian Affairs, Department of State
-   Christopher Maier, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for Special
    Operations/Low Intensity Conflict, Department of Defense
-   Sarah Margon, Nominee for Assistant Secretary, Bureau of Democracy,
    Human Rights, and Labor, Department of State
-   Deborah Rosenblum, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for Nuclear,
    Chemical, and Biological Defense, Department of Defense
-   Shawn Skelly, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for Readiness,
    Department of Defense
-   Jessica Lewis, Nominee for Assistant Secretary, Bureau of
    Political-Military Affairs, Department of State

**<u>Brenda Sue Fulton, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for Manpower and
Reserve Affairs, Department of Defense</u>**

Brenda S. “Sue” Fulton graduated West Point in 1980, in the first class
to admit women. She served as a platoon leader, staff officer, and
company commander in Germany before her honorable discharge at the rank
of Captain. During a 25-year career in brand management at Fortune 100
companies, she gained expertise in budget management, cross-functional
team leadership, and strategic communications. Continuing to mentor West
Point cadets and junior officers, Fulton helped found Knights Out and
OutServe, both organizations key in the battle to repeal “Don’t Ask,
Don’t Tell.” Fulton founded and led SPARTA to successfully end the
transgender ban, while at the same time providing counsel to Army
leaders on removing the combat exclusion rule and integrating women in
the combat arms. In 2011, President Obama appointed her as the first
openly gay member of the West Point Board of Visitors, and she was later
elected Chair (twice) with strong bipartisan support. During 8 years on
the Board, she successfully advocated for significant increases in
admissions of Black, Latino, and women cadets. In 2017, she was
appointed to the Board of Visitors of the National Defense University.

Since 2018, Fulton has served NJ under Governor Phil Murphy as Chief
Administrator of the NJ Motor Vehicle Commission (MVC), an agency of
2,200 employees that generates ~$1.8 billion in annual revenue. During
her tenure, she completely transformed and modernized NJ Motor Vehicles
systems. In 2012, Fulton and Penny Gnesin were the first same-sex couple
to wed in West Point’s Cadet Chapel. In 2019, after 24 years together,
Penny died of breast cancer. Fulton continues to live in Asbury Park,
NJ.

**<u>Donald Lu, Nominee for Assistant Secretary, Bureau of South and
Central Asian Affairs, Department of State</u>**

Donald Lu, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, Class of
Minister-Counselor, has been U.S. Ambassador to the Kyrgyz Republic
since 2018. Previously, Lu was U.S. Ambassador to Albania. He has also
served as Deputy Chief of Mission, U.S. Embassy New Delhi, India, Deputy
Chief of Mission and the Chargé d’affaires, U.S. Embassy Baku,
Azerbaijan and Deputy Chief of Mission, U.S. Embassy Bishkek, Kyrgyz
Republic. Earlier, Lu was the Deputy Director, Office of Central Asian
and South Caucasus Affairs, for the Department of State and, before
that, the Special Assistant to the Ambassador for the Newly Independent
States. He also held postings in India, Georgia, and Pakistan. Lu earned
M.A. and B.A. degrees from Princeton University. He is the recipient of
the Rockwell Anthony Schnabel Award for advancing U.S.-European Union
relations. Ambassador Lu speaks and reads Albanian, Russian,
Azerbaijani, Georgian, West African Krio, Hindi and Urdu.

**<u>Christopher Maier, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for Special
Operations/Low Intensity Conflict, Department of Defense</u>**

Christopher P. Maier has served in national security roles across five
Presidential Administrations and is currently the Principal Deputy
Assistant Secretary of Defense for Special Operations and Low-Intensity
Conflict. In this role, he advises the Secretary of Defense on all
special operations, irregular warfare, counterterrorism, and information
operations policy issues, and oversees all special operations
administrative matters. Maier previously led the Defeat-ISIS Task Force
charged with integrating Department of Defense efforts in the campaign
to achieve the enduring defeat of ISIS. Maier was appointed as the
Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Special Operations and
Combating Terrorism in the Obama-Biden Administration.

Before moving to the Department of Defense, he held a variety of
leadership and staff positions at the National Counterterrorism Center,
focused on planning and analysis. Maier was detailed from 2009 to 2013
to the National Security Council staff, where he authored the 2011
National Strategy for Counterterrorism. He began his government career
as an intelligence analyst on Middle East and Africa issues. He
continues to serve as an officer in the Air National Guard. Originally
from California, Maier earned degrees from the University of California,
Berkeley and the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts
University.

**<u>Sarah Margon,</u>** **<u>Nominee for Assistant Secretary, Bureau of
Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor, Department of State</u>**

Sarah Margon currently serves as the U.S. Foreign Policy Director at the
Open Society Foundations. Previously, she served as Washington Director
and, before that, Deputy Washington Director for Human Rights Watch.
Margon also was Associate Director for Sustainable Security and
Peacebuilding at the Center for American Progress and Senior Foreign
Policy Advisor to Senator Russ Feingold and Staff Director for the
Senate Foreign Relations Subcommittee on African Affairs. Earlier in her
career she was Humanitarian and Conflict Policy advisor for Oxfam
America. Margon holds an M.S. in Foreign Service from Georgetown
University and a B.A. in American Studies from Wesleyan University.

**<u>Deborah Rosenblum, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for Nuclear,
Chemical, and Biological Defense, Department of Defense</u>**

Deborah G. Rosenblum currently serves as the Executive Vice President of
the Nuclear Threat Initiative (NTI), a non-profit dedicated to
transforming global security by driving systemic solutions to nuclear
and biological threats. Ms. Rosenblum is part of NTI’s executive
leadership team and helps oversee the organization’s threat reduction
programs, operations and development as well as co-chairs NTI’s task
force on diversity, equity and inclusion. Ms. Rosenblum serves as the
President of the Herbert Scoville Jr. Peace Fellowship which is
dedicated to developing next generation talent and capacity.

Prior to assuming her position at NTI in 2009, Ms. Rosenblum was a vice
president with The Cohen Group, an international consulting firm. She
also served as a career civil servant for 12 years in the Office of the
Secretary of Defense, including as a member of the Senior Executive
Service. Ms. Rosenblum worked in the areas of nuclear forces,
counter-proliferation policy, countering narcotics, homeland defense,
and peacekeeping operations and support. She also represented the United
States in multi-year bilateral negotiations with the Democratic People’s
Republic of Korea around its nuclear program. Ms. Rosenblum holds a
master’s degree from Columbia University’s School of International and
Public Affairs and is a Phi Beta Kappa graduate with a bachelor’s degree
from Middlebury College. She is fluent in French.

**<u>Shawn Skelly, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for Readiness,
Department of Defense</u>**

Shawn Skelly served over twenty years in the U.S. Navy as a Naval Flight
Officer flying the S-3 Viking and retired from active duty as a
Commander. Her career included multiple carrier deployments, duty as a
Fleet Replacement flight instructor, and staff tours attached to the
U.S. Second Fleet, United States Pacific Command, and the Marine Corps
Warfighting Laboratory. She worked in industry with ITT Exelis and CACI
International supporting Department of Defense offices and programs.
Skelly joined the Obama-Biden Administration in 2013 as Special
Assistant to the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology,
and Logistics, as Coordinator of the Defense Department’s Warfighter
Senior Integration Group. She later served as Director, Office of the
Executive Secretariat, U.S. Department of Transportation. President
Obama appointed her in 2017 to serve as a Commissioner on the National
Commission on Military, National, and Public Service, which was
established to conduct a review of the military selective service
process and consider methods to increase participation in military,
national, and public service to address national security and other
public service needs of the Nation. The Commission issued its final
report to Congress in March 2020. She also served as a member of the
Biden-Harris Presidential Transition Defense Agency Review Team.

Skelly is Vice President and Co-Founder of Out in National Security, a
member of the Atlantic Council’s LGBTI Advisory Council, and a member of
the Service Year Alliance Leadership Council. She received a B.A. in
History from the University of South Carolina and a M.A. in National
Security and Strategic Studies from the College of Naval Command &
Staff, U.S. Naval War College.

**<u>Jessica Lewis</u>**, **Nominee for Assistant Secretary, Bureau of
Political-Military Affairs, Department of State**

Jessica Lewis currently serves as Democratic Staff Director of the
Senate Foreign Relations Committee. Previously, from 2007 – 2014, she
was the National Security Advisor and Foreign Policy Advisor, and then
Senior National Security Advisor, to Senate Majority/Minority Leader
Harry Reid. Earlier, Lewis was the Senior Foreign Policy Advisor to
Senator Robert Menendez and, before that the Democratic Staff Director
for the Western Hemisphere Subcommittee of the House International
Relations Committee, Ranking Member Robert Menendez. She also worked as
Manager, New Initiative Development, and as Manager, Net Corps America,
at the Organization of American States. Lewis received an MPA degree
from Harvard University, John F. Kennedy School of Government, an MA
degree from Johns Hopkins University, and a BA degree from Haverford
College.

\###
