---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-04-27'
modified_time: 2021-04-27 16:09:43-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/04/27/president-biden-announces-key-administration-nominations/
published_time: 2021-04-27 16:09:42-04:00
title: "President\_Biden Announces Key Administration\_Nominations"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Joe Biden announced his intent to nominate
the following individuals to serve in domestic and economic positions.

-   Jennifer Moffitt, Nominee for Under Secretary for Marketing and
    Regulatory Programs, Department of Agriculture
-   Alejandra Castillo, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for Economic
    Development, Department of Commerce
-   Mark Colón, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for Community Planning
    and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development
-   Javier Guzman, Nominee for Assistant Attorney General Civil
    Division, Department of Justice
-   Elizabeth Watson, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for Congressional
    and Intergovernmental Affairs, Department of Labor

**<u>Jennifer Moffitt, Nominee for Under Secretary for Marketing and
Regulatory Programs, Department of Agriculture</u>**

Jenny Lester Moffitt is Undersecretary at the California Department of
Food and Agriculture, where she previously served as Deputy Secretary
from 2015-18. Prior, Moffitt spent 10 years as Managing Director at
Dixon Ridge Farms, her family’s organic walnut farm and processing
operation. Growing up and working on the farm, Moffitt learned
first-hand the importance of taking care of the land and the people who
farm it. Additionally, she served on the Central Valley Regional Water
Quality Control Board from 2012-15 and worked for American Farmland
Trust from 2002-05.

As a farmer and policymaker, Moffitt has engaged with agricultural
stakeholders on the critically important balance of sustaining our
environment, strengthening our rural economies, and building healthy
communities. Moffitt is a graduate of Brown University and the
California Agricultural Leadership Program. She resides in Davis,
California with her husband and daughter.

**<u>Alejandra Castillo, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for Economic
Development, Department of Commerce</u>**

Alejandra Y. Castillo stands as a committed public servant with
expertise in the fields of public policy, legislation, regulation and
federal programs. She is an accomplished leader who has served with
distinction in the public, private, and nonprofit sectors where she
advocated for economic development and job creation. Castillo is the
immediate past CEO of YWCA USA, where she led the 163-year-old
organization and its 204 associations serving over 2.3 million women and
families across 1300 communities in the United States. 

With more than two decades of professional experience in Washington
D.C., Castillo has served in senior leadership roles in two previous
presidential administrations with a specific focus on international
trade, minority entrepreneurship and economic development. In 2014, she
was appointed by the Obama Administration to serve as national director
of the Minority Business Development Agency, becoming the first Hispanic
American woman to lead the agency. In that role, she helped secure
financing and capital in excess of $19 billion and created or retained
more than 33,000 jobs. Castillo is an active member in various civic and
professional organizations, and she currently serves on several national
nonprofit boards. She considers herself an embodiment of the American
Dream, and she is committed to expanding opportunities for all
Americans. On a personal note, she is also proud to have raised two
amazing nieces who she calls her daughters. 

Castillo holds a Bachelor of Arts in Economics and Political Science
from the State University of New York at Stony Brook; a Master’s in
Public Policy from the Lyndon Baines Johnson School of Public Affairs,
University of Texas at Austin; and a Juris Doctorate from American
University, Washington College of Law.

**<u>Mark Colón, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for Community Planning
and Development, Department of Housing and Urban Development</u>**

Mark Colón is President of the Office of Housing Preservation at NY
State Homes & Community Renewal (HCR). In this capacity, Mr. Colón has
overseen one of the largest, most diverse affordable housing portfolios
in the country, with more than 450,000 units in 3,200 developments
across New York State. Previously, Colón served as HCR’s acting
“Disaster Recovery” Counsel, helping to lead New York’s post-Hurricane
Sandy housing recovery efforts, by designing policies for the award of
more than $4B in federal, state and privately-sourced relief funding.

Prior to his government service, Mr. Colón practiced law at Simpson,
Thacher & Bartlett and Dechert LLP. Mark graduated magna cum laude from
Hunter College/CUNY and received his J.D. from Yale Law School, where he
served as Managing Editor of the Yale Law & Policy Review. Following law
school, Mark clerked for the Honorable Julio M. Fuentes, the first
Hispanic justice in the history of the Third Circuit, U.S. Court of
Appeals.

Colón is currently the Chairperson of El Puente de Williamsburg and a
board member of the Institute for Energy Economics and Financial
Analysis (IEEFA). Colón is a native New Yorker and currently lives in
Brooklyn with his wife, Gina Kim, and their 14-year old son. 

**<u>Javier Guzman, Nominee for Assistant Attorney General Civil
Division, Department of Justice</u>**

Javier Guzman is the Deputy General Counsel at Harvard University.  His
prior government service includes nearly 20 years at the U.S. Department
of Justice across several components.  He served as a trial attorney and
deputy chief in the Civil Rights Division, where he investigated and
litigated cases to protect access to equal educational opportunities for
all students.  He also served as an Assistant United States Attorney in
Washington, DC and Florida, where he litigated affirmative and defensive
civil cases involving a broad range of substantive areas and federal
agencies.  During the Obama-Biden administration, he served as a Deputy
Associate Attorney General, advising and working on significant matters
arising in the areas of civil rights, environmental law, and federal
programs.  He also worked closely with the Office of Access to Justice
to promote access to the civil and criminal justice systems, and the
Community Relations Service in its mission to work with communities
facing tensions and disputes arising from civil rights issues.

Prior to joining the Department of Justice, Guzman worked in private
practice as a litigator focusing on complex civil matters, including
class actions and multidistrict litigation.  He also maintained an
active pro bono practice, working on a diverse range of cases, including
educational rights, veterans benefits, and family law.  Following his
service at the Department, Guzman has continued to focus on litigation
in the federal courts, much of it involving administrative and
constitutional law issues, formerly at a public interest legal
organization and presently at Harvard.  Raised in New Orleans by parents
who immigrated from Ecuador, Guzman is a graduate of Louisiana State
University and Tulane Law School.

**<u>Elizabeth Watson, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for Congressional
and Intergovernmental Affairs, Department of Labor</u>**

Liz Watson has spent most of her career working on labor and economic
policy. Watson previously served as Labor Policy Director and Chief
Labor Counsel on the House Committee on Education and Labor. Currently,
she is Executive Director of the Congressional Progressive Caucus
Center. Earlier in her career, Watson directed the Georgetown Center on
Poverty, Inequality, and Public Policy. She also worked at the National
Women’s Law Center, and Workplace Flexibility 2010, at Georgetown
University Law Center. Watson taught courses in employment law and
legislative process at Indiana University. She was also an associate at
Orrick and Lieff, Cabraser, Heimann & Bernstein, a Skadden Public
Interest Law Fellow, and a judicial law clerk to the Honorable Susan
Illston (N.D. Cal.). She earned her J.D. degree from Georgetown
University Law Center and her B.A. degree from Carleton College. Watson
grew up in Bloomington, Indiana and she currently resides in Silver
Spring, Maryland with her husband, son and daughter, and their dog.

\###
