---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-04-20'
modified_time: 2021-04-20 14:13:25-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/04/20/president-biden-announces-more-key-administration-nominations/
published_time: 2021-04-20 14:13:24-04:00
title: "President\_Biden Announces More Key Administration\_Nominations"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Joe Biden announced his intent to nominate
the following 10 individuals to serve on key Administration boards and
commissions.

-   Deirdre Hamilton for Member, National Mediation Board
-   Cynthia Hogan for Member, Board of Directors of the Corporation for
    National and Community Service
-   Catherine McLaughlin for Member, Board of Directors of the
    Corporation for National and Community Service
-   Shirley Sagawa for Member, Board of Directors of the Corporation for
    National and Community Service
-   Evelyn M. Fujimoto for Member, Board of Directors of the National
    Institute of Building Sciences
-   Lori Peek for Member, Board of Directors of the National Institute
    of Building Sciences
-   Beth Geer for Member, Board of Directors of the Tennessee Valley
    Authority
-   Robert Klein for Member, Board of Directors of the Tennessee Valley
    Authority
-   Kimberly Lewis for Member, Board of Directors of the Tennessee
    Valley Authority
-   Michelle Moore for Member, Board of Directors of the Tennessee
    Valley Authority

**<u>Deirdre Hamilton, Nominee for Member of the National Mediation
Board</u>**

Deirdre Hamilton has worked as a staff attorney at the International
Brotherhood of Teamsters since 2014, working exclusively with the IBT’s
Airline Division.  At the IBT she has represented most of the crafts or
classes within the airline industry- including pilots, flight
attendants, technicians, and aircraft cleaners- at both commercial and
cargo air carriers.  Before that, she was a staff attorney at the
Association of Flight Attendants for twelve years.  In her career, she
has handled a wide range of legal matters including National Mediation
Board elections and mediation, collective bargaining support, contract
enforcement, and litigation of Railway Labor Act issues.  She began her
career as a legal fellow in the General Counsel’s office at the
International Association of Machinists and Aerospace Workers. 

Since 2014, Hamilton has served as a panelist at meetings of the
American Bar Association’s Labor and Employment Law Committee and
Railway and Airline Labor Law Committee. Hamilton also serves as a
Senior Editor for the ABA Railway Labor Act Treatise, Fourth Edition.

Hamilton received her J.D. from the University of Michigan in 2000 and
her B.A. from Oberlin College.

**<u>Cynthia Hogan, Nominee for Member of the Board of Directors of the
Corporation for National and Community Service</u>**

Cynthia was born and raised in Cincinnati, Ohio. In 1979, she graduated
from Oberlin College with a BA in art history. In 1984, she received a
JD from the University of Virginia School of Law, where she served as
Notes Editor of The Virginia Law Review. She served in 1984-85 as a Law
Clerk to the Honorable Edward Cahn, United States District Court for the
Eastern District of Pennsylvania, and worked as an associate at the
Washington, DC law firm, Williams & Connolly, from 1985-1991.

In 1991, Hogan joined the staff of United States Senate Committee on the
Judiciary, serving as counsel, staff director, and then chief counsel
until 1996. From 2009 to 2013, Cynthia served as Deputy Assistant to the
President and Counsel to the Vice President of the United States of
America.  In 2014, Hogan joined the National Football League as Senior
Vice President of Public Policy. In 2016, she joined Apple as Vice
President for Public Policy and Government Affairs for the Americas. She
resigned from Apple in 2020. In April 2020, then candidate Joe Biden
asked Hogan to serve on a committee he formed to assist in the selection
of a Vice Presidential candidate. Hogan is married and has two children.

**<u>Catherine McLaughlin, Nominee for Member of the Board of Directors
of the Corporation for National and Community Service</u>**

Catherine McLaughlin serves as the founding Executive Director of the
Biden Institute at the University of Delaware.  The Institute,
established in 2017, brings students together with accomplished,
respected practitioners from a broad diversity of backgrounds and a wide
range of policy fields in order to equip aspiring public servants to
elevate civil discourse and take on pressing policy challenges facing
our nation.

Prior to joining the Biden Institute, McLaughlin served as the Executive
Director of Harvard University’s Institute of Politics (IOP) for 22
years, where she oversaw all programming including the JFK Jr Forum, the
resident and visiting fellows program, and national conferences for
new-elected mayors and members of Congress.  McLaughlin created a
national consortium of IOP-like institutions that brought together
students from across the country annually to identify ways to engage
college and university students in the political process.  She also
co-founded the IOP’s Biannual Youth Survey on Politics and Public Public
Service.  She previously served as Tour Manager for the Boston-based
band New Kids on the Block and as director of the Office of Alumni
Affairs and coordinator in the Press and Public Liaison Offices at
Harvard University’s John F. Kennedy School of Government.  McLaughlin
has her B.A. from Saint Anselm College, where she currently serves as a
member of the board of the New Hampshire Institute of Politics.

**<u>Shirley Sagawa, Nominee for Member of the Board of Directors of the
Corporation for National and Community Service</u>**

Shirley Sagawa is the former CEO of Service Year Alliance and an
architect of AmeriCorps. Over the last three decades, she has developed
innovative social and education policy, authored groundbreaking reports,
and advised national organizations and foundations on strategy. As a
partner with sagawa/jospin, she played strategic roles in the creation
of America Forward, Cities of Service, Service Year Exchange, and the
Presidio Institute Fellows Program.

She has served as a presidential appointee in both Democratic and
Republican Administration. She served as First Lady Hillary Clinton’s
policy assistant and deputy chief of staff, and helped lead the start up
of the Corporation for National and Community Service for President Bill
Clinton. For President George H. W. Bush, she served as first vice chair
of the Commission on National and Community Service, authorized under
the National and Community Service Act of 1990, which she drafted and
negotiated as a Chief Counsel for Youth Policy on the Senate Labor and
Human Resources Committee. A Senior Fellow at the Center for American
Progress, Sagawa is author of three books, including The American Way to
Change and The Charismatic Organization. She holds degrees from Harvard
Law School, London School of Economics, and Smith College.

**<u>Evelyn M. Fujimoto, Nominee for Member of the Board of Directors of
the National Institute of Building Sciences</u>**

Evelyn Fujimoto is an award-winning design professional with a portfolio
of over nine million square feet of building interiors spanning North
American, Asia, Europe, and the Middle East. Evelyn’s professional
accreditations attest to her expertise in the design and delivery of
interior spaces, as well as a commitment to sustainability and
resilience. Her projects have received industry recognition for their
design excellence including adherence to sustainable design practices,
value creation for the business community, and demonstration of leading
engineering and construction methods. Most of her projects have been in
the workplace sector, but also include residential, retail, hospitality,
and civic/institutional projects. In her role as design director for one
of the world’s leading design firms, some of her most significant
projects include the London Stock Exchange in the United Kingdom, the
Abu Dhabi Securities Exchange in the United Arab Emirates, BHP
Headquarters in Houston, Texas, and the Travis County Civil and Family
Courts Facilities (TCCFCF) in Austin, Texas.

As a daughter and granddaughter of immigrants, Fujimoto is acutely aware
of the opportunities that have been afforded in her lifetime. Living and
working abroad, working across multiple cultures, she has learned to
embrace diverse views and positions to listen, learn, and bridge divided
opinions to achieve consensus. She is an advocate for a more holistic
approach to urban planning and more active engagement with a broad
section of local communities in setting and reaching community goals.
Fujimoto believes the AEC (architecture, engineering, construction)
professions, the private sector, and government are in a unique position
to improve peoples’ lives. She looks forward to working with partners
from across the industry to make that happen.

**<u>Lori Peek, Nominee for Member of the Board of Directors of the
National Institute of Building Sciences</u>**

Lori Peek is Director of the Natural Hazards Center and Professor in the
Department of Sociology at the University of Colorado Boulder. She
studies marginalized populations in disaster and is author of Behind the
Backlash: Muslim Americans after 9/11, co-editor of Displaced: Life in
the Katrina Diaspora, and co-author of Children of Katrina. Peek helped
develop school safety guidance for the nation, which resulted in the
publication of FEMA P-1000, Safer, Stronger, Smarter: A Guide to
Improving School Natural Hazard Safety.

Peek has conducted field investigations in the aftermath of several
major disasters. She is the principal investigator for the National
Science Foundation-funded CONVERGE facility, which is dedicated to
improving research coordination and advancing the ethical conduct and
scientific rigor of disaster research. She also leads the Social Science
Extreme Events Research (SSEER) and Interdisciplinary Science and
Engineering Extreme Events Research (ISEEER) networks. She is past
President of the International Sociological Association Research
Committee on Disasters and past Chair of the American Sociological
Association Section on Environmental Sociology. She is a Board Member
for the Bill Anderson Fund, which is an initiative dedicated to
increasing the number of persons of color in hazards mitigation and
disaster research. Peek received her Ph.D. in Sociology from the
University of Colorado Boulder in 2005.

**<u>Beth Geer, Nominee for Member of the Board of Directors of the
Tennessee Valley Authority</u>**

Beth Prichard Geer is Chief of Staff to former Vice President Al Gore
and serves as a member of Nashville Mayor John Cooper’s Sustainability
Advisory Committee. Geer has extensive policy and outreach experience on
issues including climate change, environmental justice, and regenerative
agriculture. She has served in senior roles in the Clinton-Gore White
House, Department of Labor, and United States Senate. As a native of
rural Tennessee, she graduated with honors from Middle Tennessee State
University and earned the Public Leadership Executive Certificate from
the Harvard Kennedy School Senior Managers in Government program.  She
resides in Brentwood, Tennessee with her husband, Dr. John Geer.

**<u>Robert Klein, Nominee for Member of the Board of Directors of the
Tennessee Valley Authority</u>**

Robert P. Klein is a lifelong resident of Chattanooga having attending
Hamilton County public schools graduating from Tyner High School, where
he was a member of the National Honor Society and National Beta Club. 
He also attended the University of Tennessee at Chattanooga. Klein
served in the Tennessee Army National Guard where received an Honorable
Discharge.

He begin his professional career at the Chattanooga Gas Company before
continuing at the Electric Power Board of Chattanooga (now EPB) where he
worked in the Overhead Line Department.  He completed the Joint Lineman
Apprenticeship Program becoming a Journeyman Lineman in 1982.  He
furthered his career by becoming a Line Foreman supervising the building
and maintaining of the power distribution system. Klein took a leave of
absence with EBP to work with the International Brotherhood of
Electrical Workers Local Union 175 and was appointed in 1998 as an
International Representative with the International Brotherhood of
Electrical Workers (IBEW).  In 2003 he was appointed as the
International Vice President of the IBEW Tenth District, which consists
of Tennessee, Arkansas, North and South Carolina.  He was re-elected as
Vice President at the 37th and 38th IBEW International Conventions.

During his career Klein has served on the Executive Committee and Board
of Directors of the United Way of Chattanooga, Board of Directors for
the Tennessee Labor-Management Conference, Board of Directors for the
Tennessee Safety and Health Congress, sat on the Tennessee Valley Trades
and Labor Council, where is served as President for fourteen (14)
years.  He also sat on the Tennessee Valley Authority Labor -Management
Committee as well as on the Board of Directors for the Southeast
Labor-Management Public Affairs Committee.  Additionally, he was a
Trustee for the IBEW-NECA Family Medical Healthcare Plan.  He officially
retired from EPB in 2011 and the International Brotherhood of Electrical
Workers in 2015.

Klein, who is known as Bobby to his family, friends and colleagues
attends Silverdale Baptist Church and still resides in Chattanooga with
his wife, Sharon.

**<u>Kimberly Lewis, Nominee for Member of the Board of Directors of the
Tennessee Valley Authority</u>**

Kimberly Caudle Lewis of Huntsville, Alabama, is the Chief Executive
Officer of PROJECTSYZ, Inc., a business that provides services and
products in the areas of engineering, logistics, technical services,
manufacturing, and international foreign military sales. She leads a
workforce that supports federal and commercial customers across several
diverse subsidiaries and at locations across the US and around the
world. Lewis has a 25-year career spanning business operations and
management, technology, and federal government contacting.

A life-long resident of Madison County, Alabama, Lewis would later
become the first black female elected as Board Chair of the Huntsville /
Madison Chamber of Commerce and most recently, the first minority owner
of North Alabama’s only locally owned broadcast television station,
WTZT-TV.

Lewis’ previous career roles and studies in healthcare and information
technology set the foundation for starting PROJECTXYZ and where she was
previously involved in management of large-scale IT implementations and
projects for large healthcare companies. She earned a degree in Computer
Information Systems at John C. Calhoun State Community College.

**<u>Michelle Moore, Nominee for Member of the Board of Directors of the
Tennessee Valley Authority</u>**

A social entrepreneur and former White House official with roots in
rural Georgia, Michelle Moore is a purposeful leader with a passion for
connecting clean energy with economic growth. Her passion for community
power and getting good stuff done is rooted in her faith and the
commandment to “love your neighbor as yourself.” Moore currently serves
as CEO of Groundswell, a nonprofit that builds community power through
community solar, clean energy, and resilience programs that share power,
savings, and economic opportunity with more than four thousand families.
Her accomplishments range from building the global green building
movement as a senior executive with the U.S. Green Building Council to
leading the sustainability and infrastructure delivery teams for the
Obama Administration.

Moore got her start in sustainability in 1997 as Director of eBusiness
for Interface Inc. in her hometown of LaGrange GA, where working for Ray
Anderson showed her how to connect people, planet, and profitability and
the pathway to “doing well by doing good.” Moore is married to Linwood
Boswell, a local music mainstay, father of three, and community real
estate agent in Richmond, Virginia.

\###
