---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-04-21'
modified_time: 2021-04-21 13:57:52-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/04/21/fact-sheet-the-american-jobs-plan-will-support-womens-employment/
published_time: 2021-04-21 13:57:50-04:00
title: "FACT SHEET: The American Jobs Plan Will Support Women\u2019s\_Employment"
---
 
There are now 3.7 million fewer women working than there were in
February 2020, in large part because of the pandemic, eroding more than
30 years of progress in women’s labor force participation. Even more
women have reduced their hours. Many others have managed precarious job
conditions and additional caregiving responsibilities, threatening
economic security for them and their families and unmasking the
fragility of our caregiving infrastructure. Our economic recovery
depends on addressing longstanding discrimination and barriers that have
hampered women—particularly women of color—from fully participating in
the labor force. The resulting gender and racial income and wealth gaps
have only been magnified and exacerbated by the impact of COVID-19.

President Biden’s American Jobs Plan is an historic public investment
that will create millions of good jobs, rebuild our country’s
infrastructure and strengthen economic competitiveness– including by
modernizing schools and upgrading child care centers; creating
good-paying, quality jobs; investing in a robust care infrastructure, a
cornerstone of a resilient and sustainable economy; and developing the
workforce and new career pathways which will strengthen the pipeline for
more women and communities of color. This includes ensuring jobs with
fair and equal pay, safe and healthy workplaces, and workplaces free
from racial, gender, and other forms of discrimination and harassment.
  

Specifically, President Biden’s American Jobs Plan will: 

**<u>REBUILD, REENERGIZE, AND REVITALIZE OUR INFRASTRUCTURE – INCLUDING
OUR NATION’S SCHOOLS AND CHILD CARE FACILITIES</u>**

**Modernize our nation’s schools and child care facilities. ** The
President’s plan invests $100 billion to upgrade and build new public
schools, through $50 billion in direct grants and an additional $50
billion leveraged through bonds.  These funds will first go toward
making sure our schools are safe and healthy places of learning for our
kids and workplaces for teachers and other education professionals, for
example by improving indoor air quality and ventilation. Too many
students attend schools and child care centers that are run-down,
unsafe, and pose health risks.  These conditions are dangerous for our
kids and exist disproportionately in schools with a high percentage of
low-income students and students of color.  And even before COVID-19,
43% of parents reported struggling to find an adequate child care
facility for their children.  President Biden believes we can’t close
the opportunity gap if low-income kids go to schools in buildings that
undermine health and safety, while wealthier students get access to safe
buildings with labs and technology that prepare them for the jobs of the
future.

**Upgrade child care facilities and build new supply in high need
areas. ** Lack of access to child care makes it harder for parents to
fully participate in the workforce, which still tends to have a
disproportionate impact on mothers**.** These investments will provide
safe, accessible, energy efficient, high-quality learning environments
for providers to teach and care for children.  Public investments in
schools and childcare improve children’s outcomes—the foundation for
future productivity gains.

**Fix highways, rebuild bridges, upgrade ports, airports and transit
systems**.  President Biden’s plan increases resilience in the most
essential services, including the electric grid, food systems, urban
infrastructure, community health and hospitals, and our roads, rail, and
other transportation assets. 

**Eliminate all lead pipes across the nation to safeguard the health and
safety of families of color.  **President Biden’s plan will eliminate
all lead pipes and service lines in our drinking water systems,
improving the health of our country’s children, especially in
communities of color. This investment will also reduce lead exposure in
400,000 schools and childcare facilities.

**Bridge the digital divide by achieving 100 percent coverage of
high-speed broadband.** Black and Latino families are less likely to be
able to access home broadband internet than White families, compounding
systemic barriers to opportunity and economic equality. The last year
made painfully clear the cost of these disparities, particularly for
students who struggled to connect while learning remotely, compounding
learning loss and social isolation for those students.

**<u>SOLIDIFY THE INFRASTRUCTURE OF OUR CARE ECONOMY</u>**

**Invest in care infrastructure.**  President Biden is calling on
Congress to make substantial investments in the infrastructure of care
in our country. Specifically, he is calling on Congress to put $400
billion towards expanding access to quality, affordable home- or
community-based care for aging relatives and people with disabilities.
These investments will help hundreds of thousands of Americans finally
obtain the long-term services and support they need, while creating new
jobs and offering caregiving workers a long-overdue raise, stronger
benefits, and an opportunity to organize or join a union and
collectively bargain.

**Expand access to long-term care services under Medicaid.** President
Biden believes more people should have the opportunity to receive care
at home, in a supportive community, or from a loved one. President
Biden’s plan will expand access to home and community-based services
(HCBS) and extend the longstanding Money Follows the Person program that
supports innovations in the delivery of long-term care.

**Ensure caregivers can access good jobs.**  Caregivers – who are
disproportionally women of color – have been underpaid and undervalued
for far too long. Wages for essential home care workers, for example,
are approximately $12 per hour, putting them among the lowest paid
workers in our economy. In fact, one in six workers live in poverty, and
the high rate of turnover in this sector results in lower care quality
and higher employer costs. The HCBS expansion under Medicaid can support
well-paying caregiving jobs that include benefits and the ability to
collectively bargain, building state infrastructure to improve the
quality of services and to support workers. This will improve wages and
quality of life for essential home health workers and yield significant
economic benefits for low-income communities and communities of color.

**<u>EXPAND JOB AND ENTREPRENEURSHIP OPPORTUNITIES FOR WOMEN</u>**

**Protect the health, safety and rights of working women.** This
includes jobs with fair and equal pay, safe and healthy workplaces, and
workplaces free from racial, gender, and other forms of discrimination
and harassment.  In addition to a $10 billion investment in enforcement
as part of the plan’s workforce proposals, the President is calling for
increased penalties when employers violate workplace safety and health
rules.

**Empower working women.** President Biden is calling on Congress to
ensure all workers have a free and fair choice to join a union by
passing the Protecting the Right to Organize (PRO) Act. Unions benefit
women’s wages; [in
2020](https://www.bls.gov/news.release/union2.t02.htm), the median
weekly earning of full-time workers 16+ was $1,067 for women who are
members of unions, $1,057 for women who are represented by unions, and
$862 for non-union women. His plan also ensures domestic workers receive
the legal benefits and protections they deserve and tackles pay
inequities based on gender.

**Invest in gender equitable workforce development programs.** As more
Americans rejoin the workforce or seek out new opportunities in a
changing economy, we must ensure workers have ready access to the skills
they will need to succeed, and improve racial and gender equity. This
includes registered apprenticeships and pre-apprenticeships, creating
one to two million new registered apprenticeships slots, and
strengthening the pipeline for more women and people of color to access
these opportunities through successful pre-apprenticeship programs, such
as through the Women in Apprenticeship and Non-Traditional Occupations
grants that help to expand pathways for women to enter and lead in all
industries.

**Create new career pathways for women.** These investments also include
the creation of career pathway programs in middle and high schools,
prioritizing increased access to computer science and high-quality
career and technical programs that connect underrepresented students to
STEM and in-demand sectors through partnerships with both institutions
of higher education and employers.

**Eliminate gender and racial inequities in research and development and
science, technology, engineering, and math**. Discrimination leads to
less innovation: one study found that innovation in the United States
would quadruple if women, people of color, and children from low-income
families invented at the same rate as other groups who are not held back
by discrimination and structural barriers. Persistent inequities in
access to R&D dollars and to careers in innovation industries prevents
the U.S. economy from reaching its full potential.

**Support people re-entering communities in accessing employment.**
President Biden’s plan will also invest in job training for formerly
incarcerated women, men, and justice-involved youth, who, because of
entrenched disparities in the criminal justice system, are
disproportionately Black and Latino. President Biden’s plan will
facilitate effective reentry and support evidence-based violence
prevention programs while promoting public safety.

**Help women-owned small businesses, and minority business enterprises,
access capital and scale through over $30 billion in investments.**
President Biden is calling on Congress to invest in federal programs
that empower small firms to participate in federal research and other
research and development initiatives that have the potential for
commercialization. The American Jobs Plan will also create a new grant
program through the Minority Business Development Agency that will help
small manufacturing businesses owned by people of color and women of
color access private capital. And, it will enable small businesses to
drive the economic recovery by investing $15 billion in the Small
Business Administration’s 7(a) loan program and Small Business
Investment Company program.

**<u>INVEST IN HEALTHY AND SAFE COMMUNITIES</u>**

**Invest in evidence-based community violence interventions that reduce
violence and promote employment and economic development.** Violence
disrupts employment and prevents a community’s economic development. Gun
violence alone kills almost
[40,000](https://everytownresearch.org/report/gun-violence-in-america/)
people annually and injures more than twice as many. It
disproportionately impacts Black communities and other communities of
color. An average of
[53](https://everytownresearch.org/report/guns-and-violence-against-women-americas-uniquely-lethal-intimate-partner-violence-problem/)
women are shot and killed by an intimate partner every month.  One
analysis has found that gun violence causes [$280
billion](https://everytownresearch.org/report/the-economic-cost-of-gun-violence/#:~:text=afford%20gun%20violence.-,Executive%20Summary,of%20Veterans%20Affairs'%20annual%20budget.)
in economic loss annually. President Biden’s plan will invest $5 billion
over 8 years in evidence-based community violence intervention programs
that train at-risk individuals for jobs and provide other wraparound
services to prevent violence and assist victims. These strategies have
been proven to reduce violence and will help rebuild economies in the
hardest hit areas.

**Deliver affordable housing to women of color and their families who
are most burdened by the affordable housing crisis.** Following decades
of racially discriminatory federal housing policies, people of color are
more likely to be rent burdened, or to live in sub-standard housing.
And[,
three-quarters](https://www.icrw.org/wp-content/uploads/2016/11/gender_lens_on_affordable_housing_by_regender_final-1.pdf)
of households living in public housing developments are female-headed,
while the fastest-growing segment of the homeless population is women
and families, with
[84%](https://www.acog.org/Clinical-Guidance-and-Publications/Committee-Opinions/Committee-on-Health-Care-for-Underserved-Women/Health-Care-for-Homeless-Women)
of homeless families headed by single women. President Biden’s plan
invests $213 billion to produce, preserve, and retrofit more than two
million affordable and sustainable places to live, extending affordable
housing opportunities to underserved communities nationwide.

*To view this fact sheet in your browser, click
[here](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/04/AJP-Fact-Sheet-Women.docx.pdf)*
