---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-04-27'
modified_time: 2021-04-28 08:44:21-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/04/27/fact-sheet-biden-administration-advances-expansion-modernization-of-the-electric-grid/
published_time: 2021-04-27 15:22:35-04:00
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden Administration Advances Expansion & Modernization of the\
  \ Electric\_Grid"
---
 
*Departments of Energy and Transportation Announce New Actions to
Upgrade America’s Power Infrastructure — Creating Jobs, Increasing
Reliability, and Combating Climate Change*  

Today, the White House is making announcements that underscore the
Administration’s commitment to accelerating the needed expansion and
modernization of America’s power infrastructure to build a more reliable
electric grid, create good-paying, union jobs, and deliver clean
American energy to American businesses and homeowners. In particular,
the Department of Energy is announcing new financial tools to help build
high-voltage electric transmission lines, and the Department of
Transportation is issuing new guidance that will enable the use of
existing rights-of-way to facilitate the siting of transmission lines.
An independent analysis, also released today, confirms the importance of
investing in our electricity grid. It identifies more than 20 major
transmission projects that are poised to move forward, potentially
creating more than 600,000 new transmission-related jobs, and an
additional 640,000 jobs from new clean energy generation projects
enabled by the new transmission lines.     
  
The announcements reflect the Administration’s ongoing commitment to
building a more sustainable and resilient future while tackling the
climate crisis and creating jobs. As **National Climate Advisor Gina
McCarthy** noted: “After the Texas transmission debacle this winter, no
one can doubt the need to invest in our electric grid. The steps that
the Departments of Energy and Transportation are taking today, when
combined with the grid investments outlined in the [American Jobs
Plan](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/03/31/fact-sheet-the-american-jobs-plan/),
will turbocharge the building of major new electricity transmission
lines that will generate new jobs and power our economy for years to
come.”  
   
**<u>ENHANCING AMERICA’S GRID NETWORK AND UNLOCKING OUR NATION’S CLEAN
ENERGY RESOURCES</u>**  
  
Energy Secretary Jennifer Granholm is announcing the availability of two
critical financing tools that can facilitate the construction of
high-voltage transmission lines to enhance the reach, reliability, and
resilience of our electricity and unlock more of our nation’s clean
energy resources.

-   The Western Area Power Administration Transmission Infrastructure
    Program’s $3.25 billion fund is open for business and accepting
    applications that applicants can leverage for project development
    support and access to low-cost capital for transmission projects
    that will unlock renewable energy in the West.
-   DOE’s Loan Programs Office is seeking applications for up to $5
    billion in loan guarantees to support innovative transmission
    projects along with transmission projects owned by federally
    recognized tribal nations or Alaska Native Corporations. This
    includes high-voltage direct current (HVDC) systems, transmission to
    connect offshore wind, and facilities sited along rail and highway
    routes.

“DOE is making financing available for projects that improve resilience
and expand transmission capacity across the electrical grid, so we can
reliably move clean energy from places where it’s produced to places
where it’s needed most,” said **Energy Secretary Granholm**. “This is a
down payment on our efforts to modernize our transmission nationwide—but
we need the American Jobs Plan to complete them. These investments will
make our power system more resilient against threats and more reliable
as we increase our clean energy capacity, creating thousands of jobs in
the process.”

**<u>LEVERAGING TRANSPORTATION TO CREATE REVENUE, LOWER COSTS, AND
SUPPORT LOCAL ECONOMIES</u>**

Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg is announcing the Department of
Transportation’s commitment to facilitate the use of public highways and
other transportation rights-of-way to speed the siting and permitting of
transmission lines. To advance this new opportunity, the Department of
Transportation is issuing
[guidance](https://www.fhwa.dot.gov/real_estate/right-of-way/corridor_management/alternative_uses_guidance.cfm)
that will help State DOTs host transmission lines, build renewable
energy projects, deploy broadband, and support electric vehicle charging
along highway rights-of-way. In addition to accelerating the expansion
and modernization of the electric grid and other important services,
leveraging these public lands adjacent to our transportation systems can
create revenue opportunities that will lower state costs, reduce
transportation maintenance expenses, cut greenhouse gas and other
pollutant emissions, promote energy security and diversity, and foster
the creation of good-paying local jobs. 

“This announcement reflects the Biden-Harris Administration’s commitment
to use resources across the government to combat climate change,” said
**Transportation Secretary Pete Buttigieg**. “Our new guidance will help
states use their rights-of-way to expand clean energy, lower costs, and
create good-paying jobs in their communities.  Today’s actions can
provide a model for our private partners, like railroads, to do the
same.”

**<u>STAKEHOLDER REACTIONS</u>**

**<u>INDEPENDENT ANALYSIS ON BUILDING TRANSMISSION LINES AND CREATING
JOBS</u>**

Today, independent analysts, the Americans for a Clean Energy Grid,
issued a report entitled: “[Transmission Projects Ready to Go: Plugging
into America’s Untapped Renewable
Resources](https://cleanenergygrid.org/transmission-time-transmission-projects-ready-to-go/).”
The report estimates that with financing and siting tools such as those
advanced by the American Jobs Plan, more than 20 transmission projects
are positioned to move from an advanced planning stage into
construction, creating hundreds of thousands of jobs and potentially
unlocking around 60,000 megawatts of new clean energy capacity in the
U.S.

-   The “Ready to Go” report estimates that advancing the 22
    high-voltage transmission projects identified in the report would
    trigger $33 billion in investment and create around 600,000 new
    jobs, including 240,000 direct jobs plus 360,000 indirect and
    induced jobs. The wind and solar deployment enabled by this
    investment could create an additional 640,000 jobs, bringing the
    total job creation benefit to around 1,240,000 jobs.

**<u>BROAD STAKEHOLDER COALITION BACKS INVESTMENT IN AMERICA’S
GRID</u>**

A broad group of states, companies and advocates also announced today
the formation of a Grid Investments Advisory Council that is backing the
expansion and modernization of the grid, with a special focus on the
large-scale deployment of smart grid technologies that will increase
capacity while building flexibility and resilience into our national
grid. Chaired by the President of the New York Power Authority, the
Advisory Council includes leaders from the private and public sectors,
drawn from all part of the country and representing the electric utility
industry, environmental groups, vendors, labor unions and other key
stakeholders.

\###
