---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-04-16'
modified_time: 2021-04-16 09:18:10-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/04/16/fact-sheet-biden-administration-invests-4-billion-in-american-rescue-plan-funding-to-combat-covid-19-in-indian-country/
published_time: 2021-04-16 10:30:00-04:00
title: "Fact Sheet: Biden Administration Invests $4 Billion in American Rescue Plan\
  \ Funding to Combat COVID- \u2060 19 in Indian Country"
---
 
As part of President Biden’s continued efforts to ensure the pandemic
response reaches all people and all communities, the Biden
Administration is announcing it will invest more than $4 billion to
combat COVID-19 in Indian Country.

The funding, from the American Rescue Plan, will expand COVID-19
vaccinations, testing, and treatment; increase preventive health
services to American Indians and Alaska Natives at higher risk for
COVID-19; expand hospitals’ and health clinics’ ability to serve their
communities during the pandemic and beyond; and provide the Indian
Health Service (IHS), tribal health programs, and urban Indian health
programs with needed funding to make up for lost reimbursements
experienced during the pandemic.

The Indian health system has already administered more than 1 million
doses of COVID-19 vaccine thanks to efforts, and today’s announcement
will help IHS, tribal, and urban Indian health programs accelerate this
progress.

Today’s announcements include:

**$600 Million to increase COVID-19 vaccinations in Indian Country:**
Thanks to the American Rescue Plan, IHS will invest $600 million to
support increased vaccinations in Indian Country. These funds can
support mobile vaccination efforts in rural or hard to reach areas,
large scale vaccination events, and other activities to help connect
American Indians and Alaska Natives to vaccines on their reservations
and in their communities. Additionally, IHS, tribal, and urban Indian
health programs can use this funding to provide support for trusted
local voices and medical professionals to conduct outreach into
communities and build vaccine confidence – projects that are already
seeing success. A [recent
survey](https://www.uihi.org/projects/strengthening-vaccine-efforts-in-indian-country/)
from the Urban Indian Health Institute, an IHS-funded tribal
epidemiology center, found that 75% of American Indians and Alaska
Natives would be willing to get vaccinated and 74% believe that getting
vaccinated is their responsibility to their community.

**$1 billion to detect, diagnose, trace, monitor, and mitigate COVID-19
infections:** IHS will invest $1 billion to increase contact tracing,
drive through testing sites, pop up testing sites, and other public
health efforts to stop the spread of COVID-19. Additionally, this
funding will support the purchase of PPE, medical supplies, tests, and
therapeutics.

**$2 billion for tribal health systems due to lost reimbursements for
care during the pandemic:** IHS will provide $2 billion to replace lost
revenues attributable to the COVID-19 pandemic, which reduced
reimbursement from Medicare, Medicaid, VA, and private insurance.  These
funds will help make up for the financial loss across the entire Indian
health care system due to reduced patient visits. And this funding will
strengthen long-term health care in Indian Country by helping IHS,
tribal, and urban Indian health programs invest in high quality provider
salaries, services particularly impacted by the pandemic like dental
health care, and critical accreditation requirements.

The $4 billion investment also supports more than $84 million in
assistance for urban Indian organizations, $140 million for health IT
and necessary equipment to provide telehealth services, and $500 million
to support overall health care services in Indian Country.

This announcement follows [tribal
consultation](https://www.ihs.gov/sites/newsroom/themes/responsive2017/display_objects/documents/2021_Letters/DTLL_03082021.pdf)
and [urban
confer](https://www.ihs.gov/sites/newsroom/themes/responsive2017/display_objects/documents/2021_Letters/DUIOLL_03082021.pdf)
in early March by the Biden Administration to engage tribal stakeholders
in identifying how to urgently and most effectively allocate the
resources provided by the American Rescue Plan.

American Indian and Alaska Native people are at higher risk for COVID
disease and complications. According to a recent [CDC
report](https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-ncov/covid-data/investigations-discovery/hospitalization-death-by-race-ethnicity.html),
American Indians and Alaska Natives were 3.5 times more likely to get
COVID-19 than the non-Hispanic white population, and they have had the
highest hospitalization rate of any racial or ethnic group. Native
people are also more than 4 times as likely to be hospitalized as a
result of COVID-19. American Indians and Alaska Natives also have high
rates of certain co-morbidities that have been linked to poor outcomes
with COVID-19, including diabetes, hypertension, and obesity.

\###
