---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-04-27'
modified_time: 2021-04-27 15:46:03-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/04/27/president-biden-announces-key-administration-nominations-in-national-security-2/
published_time: 2021-04-27 15:46:02-04:00
title: "President\_Biden Announces Key Administration Nominations in National\_Security"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Joe Biden announced his intent to nominate
the following individuals to serve in national security positions.

-   Frank Kendall, Nominee for Secretary of the Air Force, Department of
    Defense
-   Thomas A. Monheim, Nominee for Inspector General of the Intelligence
    Community
-   Gina Ortiz Jones, Nominee for Under Secretary of the Air Force,
    Department of Defense
-   Meredith Berger, Nominee for Assistant Secretary of the Navy for
    Energy, Installations, and Environment, Department of Defense
-   Michael Connor, Nominee for Assistant Secretary of the Army for
    Civil Works, Department of Defense
-   Ed Gonzalez, Nominee for Director of Immigration and Customs
    Enforcement, Department of Homeland Security
-   Caroline Krass, Nominee for General Counsel, Department of Defense
-   Chris Lu, Nominee for Representative to the United Nations for
    Management and Reform, with the Rank of Ambassador, Department of
    State
-   Lee Satterfield, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for the Bureau of
    Educational and Cultural Affairs, Department of State
-   Adam Scheinman, Nominee for Special Representative of the President
    for Nuclear Nonproliferation, with the Rank of Ambassador, Bureau of
    International Security and Nonproliferation, Department of State
-   Heidi Shyu, Nominee for Under Secretary for Research and
    Engineering, Department of Defense

**<u>Frank Kendall, Nominee for Secretary of the Air Force, Department
of Defense</u>**

Frank Kendall is an independent consultant, a Senior Fellow at the
Center for American Progress, a Senior Advisor to the Center for
Strategic and International Studies, and a member of the Council on
Foreign Relations. Among other industry positions, he is a member of the
board of directors of Leidos Corporation and of Leonardo Electronics USA
Inc. From 2012 to 2017, Mr. Kendall served as the Under Secretary of
Defense for Acquisition, Technology and Logistics (AT&L), after serving
as the Principal Deputy Under Secretary from 2010-2012. Mr. Kendall has
over 45 years of experience in engineering, management, defense
acquisition, and national security affairs. Earlier in his career Mr.
Kendall was the Vice President of Engineering for Raytheon Company, and
prior to that, the Deputy Director of Defense Research and Engineering
for Tactical Warfare Programs. In addition, Mr. Kendall is an attorney
and has been active in the field of human rights, working primarily on a
pro bono basis. He has served as the Chairman of the Board of the
Tahirih Justice Center, a Member of the Board of Amnesty International
USA, and as an observer for Human Rights First at Guantanamo. He is
currently a member of the board of directors of The Center for Victims
of Torture. Among his awards are four Defense Distinguished Public
Service Awards, the highest Secretary of Defense award for civilian
service, and the Presidential Rank A ward for Senior Executive Service
members. In 2016 Mr. Kendall was named “Aviation Week and Space
Technology” Person of the Year (together with Secretary Ash Carter and
Deputy Secretary Robert Work). He is the author of “Getting Defense
Acquisition Right” (Defense Acquisition University Press 2017). Mr.
Kendall retired from the US Army Reserves as a Lieutenant Colonel and is
a graduate of the Army War College. Mr. Kendall holds degrees from West
Point (BS), the California Institute of Technology (MS and AE), the C.
W. Post Center of Long Island University (MBA), and Georgetown
University Law Center (JD). Mr. Kendall is a frequent contributor to
Forbes, writing on national security matters. An avid sailor and ocean
race competitor, Mr. Kendall resides in Falls Church, VA with his wife
Beth and youngest son, James.

**<u>Thomas A. Monheim, Nominee for Inspector General of the
Intelligence Community</u>**

Thomas A. Monheim has served as the Acting Inspector General of the
Intelligence Community.  Mr. Monheim’s prior civilian service includes
being General Counsel and Deputy General Counsel of the National
Geospatial-Intelligence Agency, Deputy General Counsel at the Office of
the Director of National Intelligence, Senior Legal Counsel at the
National Counterterrorism Center, Associate Deputy Attorney General at
the Department of Justice, and Associate Counsel to the President at the
White House.  Mr. Monheim retired as a Colonel from the US Air Force
Reserves. His prior military service includes time as a prosecutor,
defense counsel, appellate counsel, military judge, Deputy General
Counsel of the White House Military Office, and Senior Individual
Mobilization Augmentee. He was mobilized for 9 months in support of
Operation Enduring Freedom and was mobilized again for 9 months with a
Joint Special Operations Task Force in support of Operation Iraqi
Freedom.  Mr. Monheim’s awards include the Presidential Meritorious
Executive Award, the Director of National Intelligence Exceptional
Service Award, the Legion of Merit, and the Bronze Star. Mr. Monheim is
graduate of the University of Pennsylvania, the University of California
School of Law, and National War College.

**<u>Gina Ortiz Jones, Nominee for Under Secretary of the Air Force,
Department of Defense</u>**

Gina Ortiz Jones has spent her career working to protect U.S. economic
and national security. Commissioned through the Air Force ROTC program
at Boston University, Ms. Jones served as an Air Force intelligence
officer and deployed to Iraq with the 18th Air Support Operations Group
supporting close air support operations. A member of the LGBTQ
community, Ms. Jones served under “Don’t Ask, Don’t Tell.” Upon
separation from the Air Force, Ms. Jones advised on military operations
in Central and South America with the 470th Military Intelligence
Brigade and U.S. Army South. She joined the Defense Intelligence Agency
(DIA) as an inaugural member of U.S. Africa Command in Stuttgart,
Germany and served in the Libya Crisis Intelligence Cell. Following an
assignment as the Special Advisor to the DIA Deputy Director, Ms. Jones
was detailed to the Interagency Trade Enforcement Center to serve as the
Intelligence Community’s Senior Advisor for trade enforcement. She
joined the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative as a Director for
Investment leading the Committee on Foreign Investment in the United
States (CFIUS) portfolio. Ms. Jones served as the Democratic nominee for
Texas’s 23rd Congressional District in 2018 and 2020. She has advanced
degrees from Boston University, the University of Kansas, and the U.S.
Army School of Advanced Military Studies.

**<u>Meredith Berger, Nominee for Assistant Secretary of the Navy for
Energy, Installations, and Environment, Department of Defense</u>**

Meredith Berger served as the Deputy Chief of Staff for the Department
of the Navy during the Obama-Biden Administration, where she advised the
Secretary of the Navy on the formulation, prioritization, and execution
of Department-wide strategy, policies, plans, and standards. Prior to
assuming the role of Deputy Chief of Staff, she served for two years at
the Pentagon as a Defense Fellow, providing support to key offices in
the Department of Defense. She joined the Obama-Biden Administration in
2011 as Policy Advisor at the Environmental Protection Agency where she
worked on the Presidential Task Force focused on the long-term recovery
of the Gulf of Mexico and surrounding areas following the Deepwater
Horizon oil spill. Berger began her career in public service at the
state of Florida Chief Financial Officer’s office where she developed
and executed state policies on climate, insurance, risk, energy, public
finance, and housing. 

Meredith is currently at Microsoft with the Defending Democracy Program
where she works to protect democratic processes, people, and
institutions from cyber-enabled interference while advancing norms of
responsible behavior in cyberspace. Meredith has been a non-resident
Fellow at the Belfer Center for Science and International Affairs at the
Harvard Kennedy School. She is the recipient of the Secretary of the
Navy Distinguished Civilian Service Medal, the Secretary of Defense
Medal for Exceptional Public Service, and the Environmental Protection
Agency Gold Medal for Exceptional Service. After growing up in Florida,
Meredith is proud to be the sponsor of the USS Fort Lauderdale (LPD-28).
She holds a Bachelor of Arts in American Studies and Spanish from
Vanderbilt University, a Juris Doctor from Nova Southeastern University,
and a Master in Public Administration from the Harvard Kennedy School.

**<u>Michael Connor, Nominee for Assistant Secretary of the Army for
Civil Works, Department of Defense</u>**

Michael Connor is currently a partner in the law firm of Wilmer Cutler
Pickering Hale and Dorr, LLP.  The majority of Mr. Connor’s career has
been in the public sector, most recently serving in the Obama
Administration as the Deputy Secretary of the U.S. Department of the
Interior from 2014 until 2017. As Deputy Secretary, Connor was a key
leader in implementing the Administration’s priorities for the
Department, including establishing water policies and strategies to
address an unprecedented Western drought; promoting renewable energy
development on public lands and the outer continental shelf; developing
science-based strategies to support landscape-level management of public
lands; and taking actions to improve the federal government’s
fulfillment of its trust responsibility to Native Americans.  Prior to
serving as Deputy Secretary, Connor served as the Commissioner of the
Bureau of Reclamation from 2009 to 2014 where he led efforts to
integrate climate science and resilience actions into water resource
management. He also forged major Indian water rights settlements and led
the Department of the Interior’s negotiations to complete two major
binational agreements with Mexico on the Colorado River.

From 2001 until 2009, Connor served as Counsel to the U.S. Senate Energy
and Natural Resources Committee and previously served in the Department
of the Interior in the Solicitor’s Office, and then as Director of the
Secretary’s Indian Water Rights Office.  Connor received his J.D. from
the University of Colorado and a Bachelor of Science degree in Chemical
Engineering from New Mexico State University.  A long-time New Mexican,
he is an enrolled member of the Taos Pueblo and now resides with his
family in Denver, Colorado. 

**<u>Ed Gonzalez, Nominee for Director of Immigration and Customs
Enforcement, Department of Homeland Security</u>**

Sheriff Ed Gonzalez, a lifelong Houstonian, was elected on November 8,
2016 as the Sheriff of Harris County. On January 1, 2017, Gonzalez
became the 30th Sheriff of Harris County, Texas. Voters elected Sheriff
Gonzalez to a second term in 2020 when he earned the highest vote total
of any candidate on the countywide ballot. The Harris County Sheriff’s
Office is the largest Sheriff Office in the State of Texas, and the
third-largest nationally. Sheriff Gonzalez leads upwards of 5,000
employees to protect the County’s 4.5 million residents within the 1,700
square miles of Harris County. Sheriff Gonzalez began his law
enforcement career as a civilian employee in the Houston Police
Department, where he later became a police officer and rose to the rank
of Sergeant. He served on the elite hostage negotiation team and was
assigned to the Homicide Division as an investigator.

After serving 18 years with the Houston Police Department, Sheriff
Gonzalez retired in 2009 to serve three terms on the Houston City
Council representing District H. He was elected by his peers in 2010 to
serve as Vice Mayor Pro-Tem and was appointed Mayor Pro-Tem in 2012 by
then-Mayor Annise Parker. Sheriff Gonzalez holds a bachelor’s degree in
criminal justice from the University of Houston Downtown, and a master’s
degree from the University of St. Thomas.

**<u>Caroline Krass, Nominee for General Counsel, Department of
Defense</u>**

Caroline Krass is currently Senior Vice President & General Counsel,
General Insurance and Deputy General Counsel of American International
Group (AIG), where she leads a global legal team supporting the primary
business unit, as well as the cybersecurity and privacy, technology and
innovation teams across AIG. Previously, she was a partner and Chair of
the National Security Practice Group at Gibson Dunn. Before entering the
private sector, Krass spent more than two decades in public service,
including thirteen years in the Department of Justice, primarily as a
career lawyer in the Office of Legal Counsel (OLC) and as a Special
Assistant U.S. Attorney within the National Security Section at the U.S.
Attorney’s Office for the District of Columbia. Krass received the
Department of Defense Exceptional Civilian Service Award in 2002 and the
Attorney General’s Award for Excellence in Furthering the Interests of
National Security in 2007.

In 2009, Krass was appointed Special Assistant and Special Counsel for
National Security Affairs to President Obama and Deputy Legal Adviser to
the National Security Council (NSC), where she advised officials on a
range of legal issues related to national security and foreign policy. 
In 2011, Krass returned to the Justice Department and served as Acting
Assistant Attorney General, advising the President, Attorney General and
other Executive Branch leaders on complex questions of constitutional
and statutory law. She received the John Marshall Award, the highest
Department of Justice Award for an attorney, and the Department of
Defense Medal for Outstanding Service. In 2014, Krass was the first
woman to be confirmed by the United States Senate as General Counsel of
the Central Intelligence Agency.

Earlier in her career, Krass served as Deputy Legal Adviser to the NSC,
as Special Assistant to the General Counsel of the Department of the
Treasury, and as a lawyer at the Department of State. Krass clerked for
the Honorable Patricia M. Wald on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the D.C.
Circuit. She graduated Phi Beta Kappa from Stanford University and
received her J.D from Yale Law School.

**<u>Chris Lu, Nominee for Representative to the United Nations for
Management and Reform, with the Rank of Ambassador, Department of
State</u>**

Chris Lu is currently a Senior Strategy Advisor at FiscalNote, a
D.C.-based technology company, and the Teresa A. Sullivan Practitioner
Senior Fellow at the University of Virginia Miller Center.  Previously,
in a career of public service that spanned two decades, he served in all
three branches of the federal government.  From 2014 to 2017, Lu was the
Deputy Secretary of the U.S. Department of Labor, having been confirmed
unanimously by the U.S. Senate. In this role, he served as the chief
operating officer of a department with 17,000 employees and a $12
billion budget.  The son of immigrants, Lu was only the second Asian
American in history to become deputy secretary of a Cabinet department.

Earlier, from 2009 to 2013, he was the White House Cabinet Secretary and
Assistant to the President.  During the first term of the Obama
Administration, Lu co-chaired the White House Initiative on Asian
Americans and Pacific Islanders. Prior to his service in the executive
branch, Lu worked for then-Senator Obama, first as the Legislative
Director, and then as the Acting Chief of Staff. He also served as the
Executive Director of the Obama-Biden transition planning efforts in
2008-09. His government experience includes serving as the Deputy Chief
Counsel of the House Oversight and Reform Committee and a law clerk to
Judge Robert E. Cowen of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Third
Circuit. Lu is a graduate of Princeton University and graduate of
Harvard Law School. 

**<u>Lee Satterfield, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for the Bureau of
Educational and Cultural Affairs, Department of State</u>**

Lee Satterfield is President and Chief Operating Officer at Meridian
International Center, a non-profit center for diplomacy that strengthens
engagement between the United States and the world.  At Meridian she
directs daily operations and spearheads major strategic initiatives,
including the launch of the Center for Diplomatic Engagement, the Center
for Global Leadership, an organization-wide Diversity, Equity, and
Inclusion Taskforce and the expansion of cultural diplomacy programs. 
She previously served in the Obama Administration as Acting Assistant
Secretary of State and Deputy Assistant Secretary of State in the Bureau
of Educational and Cultural Affairs.  Prior to that, Satterfield was
Deputy Chief of Protocol of the United States.  In the Clinton
Administration, Satterfield held several senior positions including
Chief of Staff to Secretary Alexis Herman at the Labor Department,
Special Assistant to the President and Staff Director for The White
House Office of Public Liaison.  In addition to her government
experience, she has worked in the private sector as a consultant.  A
native South Carolinian, Satterfield graduated from the University of
South Carolina with a Bachelor of Arts in Journalism.

**<u>Adam Scheinman, Nominee for Special Representative of the President
for Nuclear Nonproliferation, with the Rank of Ambassador, Bureau of
International Security and Nonproliferation, Department of State</u>**

Adam M. Scheinman is a Professor of Practice and the Department of
Energy Faculty Chair at the National War College.  He served as Special
Representative of the President for Nuclear Nonproliferation, with rank
of Ambassador, during the Obama Administration, and before that as
Senior Advisor for Nuclear Nonproliferation at the Department of State,
and as Director for Nonproliferation on the National Security Council
Staff.  Earlier, during 14 years at the Department of Energy, his senior
policy positions included Assistant Deputy Administrator for
Nonproliferation and International Security in the National Nuclear
Security Administration, when he was selected as a career member of the
Senior Executive Service, and Policy Director at the National Nuclear
Security Administration.  Scheinman earned a Bachelors Degree at Cornell
University and a Masters Degree at George Washington University. 

**<u>Heidi Shyu, Nominee for Under Secretary for Research and
Engineering, Department of Defense</u>**

The Honorable Heidi Shyu, is a member of the Board of Trustees for
Aerospace Corporation, the Chairman of the Board for Plasan North
America, Member of the Board for Auterion Government Solutions, Catalyze
Dallas, Levitate Capital, Levitate Acquisition Corp., Linse Capital, VK
Integrated Systems, and the UCLA Dean’s Executive Board.  She is the CEO
of Heidi Shyu Inc. and consults for over a dozen companies.  Previously,
she was the Assistant Secretary of the Army for Acquisition, Logistics
and Technology, ASA(ALT), from Sept. 2012 to Jan.  2016.  Prior to this,
she served as the Acting ASA(ALT), from Jun. 2011 and the Principal
Deputy starting Nov. 2010.   She was the Vice President of Technology
Strategy for Space & Airborne Systems (SAS) at Raytheon in 2010.  She
also held several senior leadership positions there, including Corporate
VP of Technology & Research, VP & Technical Director of SAS, VP of
Unmanned & Reconnaissance Systems.

Shyu holds a BSc. Degree in Mathematics from the University of New
Brunswick (UNB) in Canada, a Master of Science (MS) Degree in
Mathematics from the University of Toronto, MS Degree in System Science
(EE) from the University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA), and the
Engineer Degree from UCLA.  She received an Honorary Doctorate of
Science from the UNB in 2017. She is also a graduate of the UCLA
Executive Management Program. She served as the Chairman of the Air
Force Scientific Advisory Board. She is a member of the National Academy
of Engineering and an Honorable Fellow of the AIAA.  She is the
recipient of the DoD Medal for Distinguished Public Service, Dept. of
the Army Medal for Distinguished Civilian Service, Dept of the Air Force
Decoration for Exceptional Civilian Service.

\###
