---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-04-13'
modified_time: 2021-04-13 10:57:07-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/04/13/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-initial-actions-to-address-the-black-maternal-health-crisis/
published_time: 2021-04-13 12:00:00-04:00
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Announces Initial Actions to\
  \ Address the Black Maternal Health\_Crisis"
---
 
Today—during Black Maternal Health Week—the Biden-Harris Administration
is announcing initial actions it has taken to address the maternal
health crisis in the United States. America’s maternal mortality rates
are among the highest in the developed world, and they are especially
high among Black women and Native American women— regardless of their
income or education levels. Recent data show that Black women are
roughly two to three times more likely to die from pregnancy
complications than non-Hispanic white women. The Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention reports that two out of three of these deaths are
preventable. 

Quality, equitable health care is a right, not a privilege. The actions
announced today are initial steps in the critical work this
Administration will do to address our maternal mortality crisis, close
disparities in maternal care and outcomes for all birthing people, and
address the systemic racism that has allowed these inequities to exist.

President Biden and Vice President Harris have both championed policies
to improve Black maternal health. As a Senator, Vice President Harris
championed legislation to close gaps in access to quality maternal care
and educate providers about implicit bias. As Vice President, President
Biden fought for the Affordable Care Act and to strengthen Medicaid,
both of which ensure access to critical services to support maternal
health.  Within just a few years of the Affordable Care Act’s
implementation, Black uninsured rates dramatically declined — a key
factor in ensuring better maternal health outcomes — and the persistent
health insurance coverage gap between Black and white Americans fell by
more than 40 percent.

The Biden-Harris Administration continues that commitment to reducing
unacceptably high maternal mortality and morbidity rates and to tackling
health disparities that are rooted in systemic racism. That’s why today,
the President issued the first-ever presidential proclamation calling on
all Americans to recognize the importance of addressing the crisis of
Black maternal mortality and morbidity in this country. And, in his
first 100 days, President Biden issued executive orders to implement a
[comprehensive approach to advancing racial
equity,](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/01/20/executive-order-advancing-racial-equity-and-support-for-underserved-communities-through-the-federal-government/)
and to establish the [White House Gender Policy
Council](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2021/03/08/executive-order-on-establishment-of-the-white-house-gender-policy-council/) to
take a whole-of-government approach to gender equity.  Both of these
interagency processes will work to end disparities that affect women and
girls of color, including the maternal health crisis.

The Administration has taken the following actions to strengthen health
equity and address racial disparities in maternal health through:

**Increased investment in reducing maternal mortality and morbidity.**
The President’s discretionary funding request includes significant
funding to reduce maternal mortality and morbidity rates, improve health
equity, and end race-based disparities nationwide, including:

-   Investing $200 million to: implement implicit bias training for
    healthcare providers; create State pregnancy medical home programs;
    bolster Maternal Mortality Review Committees; expand the Rural
    Maternity and Obstetrics Management Strategies (RMOMS) program; and
    help cities place early childhood development experts in
    pediatrician offices with a high percentage of Medicaid and
    Children’s Health Insurance Program patients;
-   Increasing funding for the HHS Office for Civil Rights by 24
    percent, to $47.9 million, to ensure protection of civil rights in
    healthcare;
-   Providing $340 million, an increase of 18.7 percent, to the Title X
    Family Planning program, which will improve access to vital
    reproductive and preventive health services and advance gender and
    health equity;
-   Prioritizing investments in programs that protect rural health care
    access and expand the pipeline of rural healthcare providers; and
-   Supporting women and young children by providing $6 billion for the
    critical Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants,
    and Children (WIC), to help vulnerable families put healthy food on
    the table and address racial disparities in maternal and child
    health outcomes. 

**Approval of the First Medicaid Section 1115 Waiver to Broadly Extend
Postpartum Coverage.** The Department of Health and Human Services,
through the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, approved a
Medicaid Section 1115 waiver in Illinois that will allow the state to
extend post-partum coverage to Medicaid-eligible women beyond 60 days
and up to 12 months. This approval will help ensure access to vital
health care services, promote better health outcomes, and reduce the
rate of maternal morbidity and mortality. Illinois is the first state to
extend postpartum coverage to all pregnant women under Medicaid. The
Administration invites all states to provide full Medicaid benefits
during pregnancy and the extended postpartum period.

**$12 Million in Additional Funds for Maternal Obstetrics Care in Rural
Communities.** The Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA)
released a Notice of Funding Opportunity that will make $12 million
available in new awards for the Federal Office of Rural Health Policy’s
RMOMS Program. RMOMS is designed to develop models and implement
strategies that improve access to and continuity of maternal obstetrics
care in rural communities, and will help improve maternal health
outcomes for underserved rural mothers, including Black rural mothers.
For the first time, applicants are required to focus on populations that
have historically suffered from poorer health outcomes, health
disparities, and other inequities.  

\###
