---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-04-16'
modified_time: 2021-04-16 14:46:50-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/04/16/president-biden-announces-his-intent-to-nominate-eight-key-administration-leaders/
published_time: 2021-04-16 14:46:49-04:00
title: "President\_Biden Announces His Intent to Nominate Eight Key Administration\_\
  Leaders"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Joe Biden announced his intent to nominate
eight leaders to key Administration posts:

-   **Pamela Melroy** – Deputy Administrator, National Aeronautics and
    Space Administration
-   **Sarah Bianchi** – Deputy United States Trade Representative
-   **Jayme White** – Deputy United States Trade Representative
-   **Robin Ashton** – Inspector General, Central Intelligence Agency
-   **Robert Bonnie** – Under Secretary for Farm Production and
    Conservation, Department of Agriculture
-   **Gwen Graham** – Assistant Secretary for Legislation and
    Congressional Affairs, Department of Education
-   **Mara Karlin** – Assistant Secretary for Strategy, Plans, and
    Capabilities, Department of Defense
-   **Taryn Williams** – Assistant Secretary of Disability and
    Employment Policy, Department of Labor

**<u>Pamela Melroy, Nominee for Deputy Administrator, National
Aeronautics and Space Administration</u>**

Pam Melroy (Colonel, USAF, ret) is an aerospace executive with
government and industry experience across civil, commercial, and
national security space. She is a retired U.S. Air Force test pilot and
former NASA astronaut and Space Shuttle commander. Melroy is a veteran
of Operation Just Cause and Operation Desert Shield/Desert Storm, with
over 200 combat and combat support hours. She has logged more than 6,000
hours flight time in more than 50 different aircraft. Melroy flew three
missions in space: as Space Shuttle pilot during STS-92 in 2000 and
STS-112 in 2002, and as Space Shuttle Commander during STS-120 in 2007.
One of only two women to command the Space Shuttle, she has logged more
than 38 days in space.

After NASA, Melroy served as Deputy Program Manager for the Lockheed
Martin Orion Space Exploration Initiatives program. She then returned to
government, overseeing commercial space licensing activities at the
Office of Commercial Space Transportation at the FAA as Director of
Field Operations and acting Deputy Associate Administrator. She
subsequently served as Deputy Director, Tactical Technology Office at
the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA) where she directed
a large advanced technology development portfolio. Melroy later was the
Director of Space Technology and Policy for Nova Systems Pty, Australia
and an advisor to the Australian Space Agency. She is an independent
consultant and a member of the Users Advisory Group to the National
Space Council.

**<u>Sarah Bianchi, Deputy United States Trade Representative</u>**

Sarah Bianchi has spent nearly a decade in government roles in economic
and domestic policy including in the Office of the Vice President, the
White House Domestic Policy Council, the Office of Management and
Budget, and the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions
Committee.   In 2011, Ms. Bianchi was appointed by then Vice President
Biden as his head of economic and domestic policy in the White House,
where she ran the economic and domestic policy team in the Office of the
Vice President and coordinated policy initiatives ranging from workforce
competitiveness to manufacturing to budget negotiations. She also served
as Deputy Assistant to the President for Economic Policy.  Bianchi has
also served as a senior advisor to the Biden Institute at the University
of Delaware, where she worked on a variety of economic policies and
served as Chair of the Institute’s Policy Advisory Board.

Bianchi has served in a number of private sector roles as well. In 2019,
she joined Evercore ISI in the macroeconomic research group where she
leads the U.S. public policy research.  She graduated magna cum laude
from Harvard University in 1995 and has served on the Senior Advisory
Committee at the Institute of Politics at Harvard University since
2004.  Bianchi and her husband live in Arlington, Virginia with their
twelve-year-old daughter and ten-year-old son.

**<u>Jayme White, Deputy United States Trade Representative</u>**

Jayme White has spent two decades working to ensure American trade
policy empowers American workers and promotes a sustainable environment.
Mr. White grew up in Seattle, WA, where his family were union workers
for Boeing. He went to Washington, DC to work for his hometown member of
Congress in the House of Representatives, Representative Jim McDermott,
who served on the Committee on Ways and Means, which has jurisdiction
over international trade. Since then, he has played a role in nearly
every major trade issue and trade legislation, over the last 20 years.

Mr. White has served in the U.S. Senate since 2009, including as the
chief trade advisor for the Senate Committee on Finance since 2014,
under the leadership of Chairman Ron Wyden. During this tenure, White
led efforts to level the playing field for American workers, through
trade negotiations and agreements, and by reforming US trade laws to
better respond to unfair foreign trade practices. In his role on the
Finance Committee, he has long represented and advanced bipartisan US
views to foreign trade leaders, and the outcomes of those efforts are
evident in many trade agreements. Key provisions — especially
enforceable measures on labor and the environment — found in the United
States-Mexico-Canada Agreement (USMCA) are a result of his efforts.

**<u>Robin Ashton,</u>** **<u>Nominee for Inspector General, Central
Intelligence Agency</u>**

Robin Ashton has spent nearly 35 years in public service.  She recently
served as the Principal Deputy Inspector General of the Office of the
Inspector General of the Intelligence Community (ICIG), where she
oversaw audits, inspections, and investigations related to the ICIG’s
mission to promote economy and effectiveness in the administration of
the activities within the authority of the Director of National
Intelligence. Before joining the ICIG, Ms. Ashton worked for over 30
years in many capacities with the Department of Justice (DOJ), including
as the Director of DOJ’s Office of Professional Responsibility (OPR),
which under her leadership successfully investigated allegations of
misconduct involving DOJ attorneys and law enforcement personnel. 

Ms. Ashton spent nearly two decades as a federal prosecutor with the
U.S. Attorney’s Office for the District of Columbia, where she handled
complex appeals in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of
Columbia Circuit, prosecuted numerous jury trials, supervised hundreds
of grand jury investigations, and investigated police misconduct, public
corruption, and national security cases. She also served as the
Executive AUSA for Management, responsible for the overall operation of
the largest U.S. Attorney’s Office in the nation, managing the
administrative, personnel, and budget staffs in an office consisting of
more than 700 employees. Ms. Ashton also spent four years  as the
Principal Deputy Director of the Executive Office for U.S. Attorneys,
the DOJ component responsible for providing executive and administrative
support to the 94 U.S. Attorneys’ Offices nationwide, and over 10,000
employees, including over 5,000 Assistant United States Attorneys.
During her DOJ career, Ms. Ashton was awarded the Attorney General’s
Claudia Flynn Award for Professional Responsibility, the Attorney
General’s Award for Outstanding Leadership in Management, the United
States Attorney’s Award for Meritorious Service, and the Executive
Office for U.S. Attorneys Director’s Award for Excellence in Management,
among other awards.

Ms. Ashton received her Bachelor of Arts degree from the University of
Michigan, and her Juris Doctor degree from the College of William and
Mary.  She grew up in Michigan, and now resides in Maryland with her
husband, Dr. Yves Rosenberg.  They are the proud parents of a daughter
and son.  

**<u>Robert Bonnie,</u>** **<u>Nominee for Under Secretary for Farm
Production and Conservation, Department of Agriculture</u>**

Robert Bonnie is the Deputy Chief of Staff and Senior Climate Advisor at
the U.S. Department of Agriculture.  Prior to joining USDA, Bonnie was
at Duke University, first as a Rubenstein Fellow and later as an
Executive in Residence at the Nicholas Institute for Environmental
Policy Solutions working on conservation and environmental issues in
rural America. In 2020, Bonnie also worked with the Bipartisan Policy
Center on its Farm and Forest Carbon Solutions Initiative.  Prior to
joining Duke, during the second term of the Obama Administration, Bonnie
was the Under Secretary for Natural Resources and Environment at USDA.
In this role, he oversaw the U.S. Forest Service and the Natural
Resources Conservation Service on a variety of natural resource issues,
including management of the 193 million-acre National Forest and
Grassland System, implementation of Farm Bill conservation programs on
America’s farms, ranches and forests, and climate change.

During President Obama’s first term, Bonnie served as Senior Advisor to
Secretary of Agriculture Tom Vilsack for environment and climate change.
Prior to joining USDA, Bonnie was vice president for land conservation
for the Environmental Defense Fund where he focused on developing
incentives to reward farmers, ranchers and forest owners for stewardship
activities on private lands.  At EDF, Bonnie helped develop the Safe
Harbor program and other incentive-based approaches to endangered
species conservation. Bonnie has master degrees in forestry and
environmental management from Duke University. He grew up on a farm in
Kentucky and now lives in Virginia.

**<u>Gwen Graham,</u>** **<u>Nominee for Assistant Secretary for
Legislation and Congressional Affairs, Department of Education</u>**

Gwen Graham, who honed her commitment to public service as a leader in
Florida’s local public schools, is a respected former Member of Congress
with a reputation for fairness, compassion, and problem-solving. Graham
served as the Congressional representative from Florida’s 2nd District
during the 114th Congress and was known as one of the House’s most
bipartisan members. She is an attorney and, prior to her service in
Congress, focused her practice on public education as Chief of Labor and
Employee Relations for the Leon County School District. She was involved
in every aspect of the educational process and was recognized for her
integrity and fairness. The Florida Education Association and the Leon
Classroom Teachers Association were the first organizations to endorse
her Congressional candidacy. She also served as a board member of the
statewide Florida Educational Negotiators. Graham is a proud product of
public K-12 education as are her children, and she served as PTA
President and School Advisory Council Chair while they were young. She
has worked on a number of presidential campaigns, and in 2004 served as
John Kerry’s surrogate coordinator in Florida. She currently serves as a
board director of the Bob Graham Center for Public Service at the
University of Florida, the Florida State Parks Foundation, Ruth’s List,
and as Vice Chair of the City of Tallahassee Independent Ethics Boards.

**<u>Mara Karlin,</u>** **<u>Nominee for Assistant Secretary for
Strategy, Plans, and Capabilities, Department of Defense</u>**

Mara E. Karlin, PhD, is currently the Principal Deputy Assistant
Secretary of Defense for International Security Affairs. In that role,
she advises the Secretary of Defense on defense policies relating to the
Middle East, Europe (including the North Atlantic Treaty Organization),
Russia, Eurasia, Africa, and the Western Hemisphere. Prior to taking on
this role, she served on the policy team for the Biden-Harris
Transition. Karlin was Director of Strategic Studies and an Associate
Professor at the Johns Hopkins University School of Advanced
International Studies (SAIS), and a Nonresident Senior Fellow at the
Brookings Institution. Previously, she served in national security roles
for five U.S. secretaries of defense, advising on policies spanning
strategic planning, defense policy and budgeting, future conflicts, and
regional security affairs. She started her government career as a civil
servant in the Office of the Secretary of Defense and has received the
Secretary of Defense Meritorious Civilian Service Award. She is the
author of two books on defense policy and military history.

A native of Milwaukee, Wisconsin, Karlin holds a master’s degree and a
Ph.D. from Johns Hopkins University SAIS, and a bachelor’s degree from
Tulane University.

**<u>Taryn Williams, Nominee for Assistant Secretary of Disability
Employment Policy, Department of Labor</u>**

Taryn Mackenzie Williams is the managing director for the Poverty to
Prosperity Program at American Progress, which works on progressive
policies focused on a broad range of anti-poverty strategies. Before
joining American Progress, Williams worked at the Office of Disability
Employment Policy (ODEP) at the U.S. Department of Labor. At ODEP, she
worked on a variety of issues related to education, workforce policy,
Social Security, Medicaid, and civil rights. In her most recent role as
director of youth policy, Williams led agency efforts to coordinate
education and employment policy in support of improved labor force
outcomes for disabled youth. From 2014 through 2016, Williams served as
ODEP’s chief of staff. She also served on detail assignments as
associate director for public engagement and liaison to the disability
community at the White House from 2014 through 2015 and as a policy
adviser on the U.S. Senate Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and
Pensions from 2012 through 2013.

Prior to joining the federal government, Williams worked as the research
coordinator for leadership programs at the Institute for Educational
Leadership and as the director of programs at the National Association
of Urban Debate Leagues headquartered in Chicago. She holds a bachelor’s
degree in public policy from Brown University and a master’s degree in
education with a concentration in administration, planning, and social
policy from Harvard University. She resides in Washington, DC.

\###
