---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-04-16'
modified_time: 2021-04-16 21:20:24-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/04/16/u-s-japan-joint-leaders-statement-u-s-japan-global-partnership-for-a-new-era/
published_time: 2021-04-16 21:20:23-04:00
title: "U.S.- Japan Joint Leaders\u2019 Statement: \u201CU.S. \u2013 JAPAN GLOBAL\
  \ PARTNERSHIP FOR A NEW\_ERA\u201D"
---
 
President Joseph R. Biden is honored to welcome Prime Minister Suga
Yoshihide for the first foreign-leader visit of his presidency. Today,
the United States and Japan renew an Alliance that has become a
cornerstone of peace and security in the Indo-Pacific region and around
the world. An ocean separates our countries, but commitments to
universal values and common principles, including freedom, democracy,
human rights, the rule of law, international law, multilateralism, and a
free and fair economic order, unite us. Together we pledge to
demonstrate that free and democratic nations, working together, are able
to address the global threats from COVID-19 and climate change while
resisting challenges to the free and open rules-based international
order. Through this new era of friendship between the United States and
Japan, each of our democracies will grow stronger still.

Our historic partnership is essential to the safety and prosperity of
both our peoples. Forged in the wake of strife, the Alliance has become
a bedrock to each of our nations. The world has changed many times over;
our ties have pulled tighter. Our democracies have flourished, our
economies have thrived, and we have become leaders in innovation. Our
cultural and people-to-people ties have grown ever-deeper, and together
we have led in multilateral institutions, in expanding global commerce
and investment, and in advancing peace, security, and prosperity in the
Indo-Pacific region. In celebration of our long-standing and close
bonds, President Biden and Prime Minister Suga recommit themselves to an
indelible Alliance, to a rules-based approach to regional and global
order founded on universal values and common principles, and to
cooperation with all those who share in these objectives. The United
States and Japan will remake these commitments for a new era.

**<span style="text-decoration: underline">THE ALLIANCE: FORGING A FREE
AND OPEN INDO-PACIFIC</span>**

The U.S.-Japan Alliance is unwavering, and we are more prepared than
ever to address regional challenges. Our Alliance advances a shared
vision for a free and open Indo-Pacific based on our commitment to
universal values and common principles, and the promotion of inclusive
economic prosperity. We respect sovereignty and territorial integrity
and are committed to peacefully resolving disputes and to opposing
coercion. We promote shared norms in the maritime domain, including
freedom of navigation and overflight, as enshrined in the UN Convention
on the Law of the Sea.

President Biden and Prime Minister Suga committed to further
strengthening the U.S.-Japan Alliance to expand on this vision, and
fully endorsed the March 2021 Joint Statement of the U.S.-Japan Security
Consultative Committee. Japan resolved to bolster its own national
defense capabilities to further strengthen the Alliance and regional
security. The United States restated its unwavering support for Japan’s
defense under the U.S.-Japan Treaty of Mutual Cooperation and Security,
using its full range of capabilities, including nuclear. It also
reaffirmed the fact that Article V of the Treaty applies to the Senkaku
Islands. Together, we oppose any unilateral action that seeks to
undermine Japan’s administration of the Senkaku Islands. The United
States and Japan committed to enhance deterrence and response
capabilities in line with the increasingly challenging security
environment, to deepen defense cooperation across all domains, including
cyber and space, and to bolster extended deterrence. We also highlighted
the importance of strengthening bilateral cybersecurity and information
security, a foundational component of closer defense cooperation, and of
safeguarding our technological advantages. We remain committed to the
implementation of the current arrangements on the U.S. forces
realignment, including the construction of the Futenma Replacement
Facility at Henoko as the only solution that avoids the continued use of
Marine Corps Air Station Futenma, the Field Carrier Landing Practice
Facility at Mageshima, and the relocation of U.S. Marine Corps units
from Okinawa to Guam. We resolved to conclude in a timely manner a
meaningful multi-year Host Nation Support agreement to ensure the stable
and sustainable stationing of the U.S. forces in Japan.

President Biden and Prime Minister Suga exchanged views on the impact of
China’s actions on peace and prosperity in the Indo-Pacific region and
the world, and shared their concerns over Chinese activities that are
inconsistent with the international rules-based order, including the use
of economic and other forms of coercion. We will continue to work with
each other based on universal values and common principles. We also
recognize the importance of deterrence to maintain peace and stability
in the region. We oppose any unilateral attempts to change the status
quo in the East China Sea. We reiterated our objections to China’s
unlawful maritime claims and activities in the South China Sea and
reaffirmed our strong shared interest in a free and open South China Sea
governed by international law, in which freedom of navigation and
overflight are guaranteed, consistent with the UN Convention on the Law
of the Sea. We underscore the importance of peace and stability across
the Taiwan Strait and encourage the peaceful resolution of cross-Strait
issues. We share serious concerns regarding the human rights situations
in Hong Kong and the Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region. The United
States and Japan recognized the importance of candid conversations with
China, reiterated their intention to share concerns directly, and
acknowledged the need to work with China on areas of common interest.

The United States and Japan reaffirmed their commitment to the complete
denuclearization of North Korea, urging North Korea to abide by its
obligations under UN Security Council resolutions, and called for full
implementation by the international community. We intend to strengthen
deterrence to maintain peace and stability in the region and will work
together and with others to address the dangers associated with North
Korea’s nuclear and missile program, including the risk of
proliferation. President Biden reaffirmed the United States’ commitment
to the immediate resolution of the abductions issue.

Together, we will continue to work with allies and partners, including
with Australia and India through the Quad, which has never been
stronger, to build the free, open, accessible, diverse, and thriving
Indo-Pacific we all seek. We support ASEAN’s unity and centrality in the
Indo-Pacific, as well as the ASEAN Outlook on the Indo-Pacific. We also
concurred that trilateral cooperation with the Republic of Korea is
essential to our shared security and prosperity. We firmly condemn
violence committed by the Myanmar military and police against civilians,
and commit to continue taking action to press for the immediate
cessation of violence, the release of those who are detained, and a
swift return to democracy.

**<span style="text-decoration: underline">AN ALLIANCE FOR A NEW
ERA</span>**

Recognizing that our shared security and prosperity requires new forms
of 21st century cooperation, President Biden and Prime Minister Suga
have [launched a new Competitiveness and Resilience (CoRe)
Partnership](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/04/FACT-SHEET-U.S.-Japan-Competitiveness-and-Resilience-CoRe-Partnership.pdf).
Our partnership will ensure that we lead a sustainable, inclusive,
healthy, green global economic recovery. It will also generate economic
growth guided by open and democratic principles, supported by
transparent trade rules and regulations and high labor and environmental
standards, and aligned with a low-carbon future. To achieve these goals,
the partnership will focus on i) competitiveness and innovation, ii)
COVID-19 response, global health, and health security, and iii) climate
change, clean energy, and green growth and recovery.

The United States and Japan recognize that digital economy and emerging
technologies have the potential to transform societies and bring about
tremendous economic opportunities. We will collaborate to enhance our
countries’ competitiveness, individually and together, by deepening
cooperation in research and technology development in life sciences and
biotechnology, artificial intelligence, quantum information sciences,
and civil space. President Biden and Prime Minister Suga affirmed their
commitment to the security and openness of 5th generation (5G) wireless
networks and concurred that it is important to rely on trustworthy
vendors. The United States and Japan will engage with others through our
enhanced Global Digital Connectivity Partnership to catalyze investments
and to provide training and capacity building to promote vibrant digital
economies. We will also partner on sensitive supply chains, including on
semi-conductors, promoting and protecting the critical technologies that
are essential to our security and prosperity.

The United States and Japan are committed to maintaining and further
strengthening our robust bilateral trade relationship while advancing
shared interests, including digital trade cooperation, the development
of trade policies that support climate change objectives, World Trade
Organization (WTO) reform, and promoting inclusive growth in the
Indo-Pacific. We will continue to work together bilaterally, as well as
within the G7 and the WTO, to address the use of non-market and other
unfair trade practices, including violations of intellectual property
rights, forced technology transfer, excess capacity issues, and the use
of trade distorting industrial subsidies. We reaffirm our commitment to
achieving prosperity and maintaining economic order in the Indo-Pacific
region while engaging with other like-minded partners.

Acknowledging that the climate crisis is an existential threat to the
world, we realize that our countries must play a critical role in
leading the global effort to combat this crisis. The United States and
Japan are committed to taking decisive climate action by 2030, both
aligned with efforts to limit the global temperature increase to 1.5
degrees Celsius and 2050 greenhouse-gas emissions net-zero goals. In
recognition of this responsibility, President Biden and Prime Minister
Suga have [launched the U.S.-Japan Climate
Partnership](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/04/U.S.-Japan-Climate-Partnership.pdf).
This partnership has three pillars: first, Paris Agreement
implementation and achievement of the 2030 targets/ nationally
determined contributions (NDCs); second, clean energy technology
development, deployment, and innovation; and third, efforts to support
decarbonization in other countries, especially in the Indo-Pacific.

COVID-19 has shown our countries and the world that we are not prepared
for a biological catastrophe. To that end, the United States and Japan
will also strengthen cooperation to advance health security, respond to
future public health crises, and build global health. At the first-ever
leaders’ summit of the Quad on March 12, 2021, we established the Quad
Vaccine Experts Group designed to expand safe and effective COVID-19
vaccine manufacturing, procurement, and delivery for the Indo-Pacific
region to supplement multilateral efforts. As we respond to COVID-19, we
must also prepare for the next pandemic and strengthen global health
security and bilateral public and private cooperation on global health.
We will work together to reform the World Health Organization by
strengthening its ability to prevent pandemics through early and
effective prevention, detection, and response to potential health
emergencies, and by increasing its transparency and ensuring it is free
from undue influence. We will also support a transparent and independent
evaluation and analysis, free from interference and undue influence, of
the origins of the COVID-19 outbreak and for investigating outbreaks of
unknown origin in the future. We resolved to take decisive action to
help the Indo-Pacific build better regional pandemic preparedness, and
will work together and multilaterally to build the capacity of all
countries to prevent, detect, and respond to infectious disease
outbreaks, including through existing initiatives like the Global Health
Security Agenda, and a new partnership coordinating on a health security
financing mechanism, regional surge capacity, and triggers for rapid
response. Furthermore, as we look toward a healthier and more resilient
future, we will bolster our support for COVAX. We will also cooperate on
global COVID-19 vaccine supply and manufacturing needs toward ending the
pandemic.

These new partnerships will harness our leadership in science,
innovation, technology, and health at a time of extraordinary
geopolitical change. They will allow us to build back better in the
Indo-Pacific, leading the region to a more resilient and vibrant future.

**<span style="text-decoration: underline">LOOKING FORWARD</span>**

The charges we take up today are considerable, but we face them with
resolve and unity. Together, we will ensure that our security
relationship is steadfast, despite challenges to our regional vision;
that our partnership fuels a sustainable global economic recovery, after
a year of global grief and hardship; and that we cooperate with
like-minded partners around the world to lead a rules-based
international order, despite challenges to its freedom and openness.
People-to-people ties form the bedrock of our friendship and it is
through initiatives such as the Mansfield Fellowship Program that we
will continue to build bridges between our two societies that will
sustain our Alliance into the future. President Biden supports Prime
Minister Suga’s efforts to hold a safe and secure Olympic and Paralympic
Games this summer. Both leaders expressed their pride in the U.S. and
Japanese athletes who have trained for these Games and will be competing
in the best traditions of the Olympic spirit. Our governments will
continue to meet at all levels, including to coordinate and implement
our policies toward realizing a free and open Indo-Pacific. Above all,
we renew our investment in the very idea of steadfast alliances –
knowing that our partnership will make security and prosperity possible
for both our peoples for decades to come.

\###
