---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-04-07'
modified_time: 2021-04-07 12:12:08-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/04/07/president-biden-announces-his-intent-to-nominate-key-roles-in-the-department-of-interior-department-of-transportation-and-department-of-veterans-affairs/
published_time: 2021-04-07 12:12:07-04:00
title: "President\_Biden Announces his Intent to Nominate Key Roles in the Department\
  \ of Interior, Department of Transportation, and Department of Veterans\_Affairs"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Joe Biden announced his intent to nominate
Robert Anderson for Solicitor of the Department of Interior, Mohsin Syed
for Assistant Secretary of Government Affairs, Department of
Transportation, and Patricia Ross for Assistant Secretary of
Congressional and Legislative Affairs, Department of Veterans Affairs

**<u>Robert Anderson, Nominee for Solicitor of the Department of
Interior</u>**

Robert Anderson is currently the Principal Deputy Solicitor for the U.S.
Department of the Interior.  For 20 years he was a law professor at the
University of Washington and directed its Native American Law Center. He
has been the Oneida Indian Nation Visiting Professor of Law at Harvard
Law School for the past twelve years.  He is a co-author and editor of
the leading federal Indian Law treatise, Cohen’s Handbook of Federal
Indian Law, and is a co-author of a leading textbook on American Indian
Law. He has extensive expertise and has published many articles in the
fields of natural resources law, water law, and American Indian law.  He
grew up in the small town of Ely in northeastern Minnesota and is an
enrolled member of the Bois Forte Band of the Minnesota Chippewa Tribe. 
Anderson attended local public schools and received his law degree from
the University of Minnesota.  He served as the Associate Solicitor for
Indian Affairs and Counselor to the Secretary under Interior Secretary
Bruce Babbitt. He began his career as a staff attorney for the Native
American Rights Fund, where he practiced law for twelve years.  Anderson
also served on the transition agency review teams for President-elect
Obama and President-elect Biden.

**<u>Mohsin Syed, Nominee for Assistant Secretary of Government Affairs,
Department of Transportation</u>**

Mohsin Raza Syed currently serves as the Principal Deputy Assistant
Secretary for Congressional Affairs at the U.S. Department of
Transportation (DOT).  Mohsin previously served for over six years on
Capitol Hill, including as the Majority Chief Counsel for the House
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, Minority Staff Director
for the Subcommittee on Aviation Operations, Safety, and Security within
the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation, and
Legislative Counsel for Senator Bill Nelson.  Prior to his work on
Capitol Hill, Mohsin worked as a career Attorney-Advisor within DOT’s
Office of the General Counsel, as an attorney in private practice, and
as an intelligence officer with the Defense Intelligence Agency.  Syed
received his B.A. and J.D. from the University of Virginia. Syed
currently resides in Arlington, VA with his wife and two sons.

**<u>Patricia Ross, Nominee for Assistant Secretary of Congressional and
Legislative Affairs, Department of Veterans Affairs</u>**

Patricia L. Ross is a Senior Policy Advisor in the Office of the Speaker
Nancy Pelosi (D-CA), where she has served since 2011.  Over the past
decade, Ross has led a broad domestic policy portfolio in both the
Speaker’s Leadership and Congressional Offices, covering veterans’
affairs and military families, agriculture and nutrition, education and
labor.  She has spearheaded major bipartisan agreements in these arenas,
including the COVID-19 response, CHOICE Act, MISSION Act, Forever GI
Bill, Blue Water Navy Vietnam Veterans Act, Deborah Sampson Act, Every
Student Succeeds Act, 2014 and 2018 Farm Bills, and ending the Widows
and Kiddie Tax.  As Senior Policy Advisor, Ross has supported and helped
coordinate multiple bipartisan traveling Congressional delegations,
including the 75th anniversary of the Allied D-Day landings in Normandy
and Battle of the Bulge, as well as staffed multiple State of the Union
addresses, Inaugurations, and Joint Addresses to Congress by heads of
state. Ross is the daughter, granddaughter and niece of Veterans and a
native Ohioan. Ross is a graduate of The College of Wooster (Ohio) and
currently lives in Washington, D.C. with her partner, also a Veteran,
and two dogs. 

\###
