---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-04-21'
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/04/21/president-biden-announces-key-administration-nominations-for-national-security/
published_time: 2021-04-21 14:47:21-04:00
title: "President\_Biden Announces Key Administration Nominations for National\_Security"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Joe Biden announced his intent to nominate
the following individuals to serve at the Office of the Director of
National Intelligence, Department of Defense, and Department of State. 

-   Stacey Dixon for Principal Deputy Director, Office of the Director
    of National Intelligence
-   Ely Ratner for Assistant Secretary of Defense, Indo-Pacific Security
    Affairs, Department of Defense
-   Rena Bitter for Assistant Secretary of State, Consular Affairs,
    Department of State

**<u>Stacey Dixon, Nominee for Principal Deputy Director, Office of the
Director of National Intelligence</u>**

Dr. Stacey A. Dixon became the eighth Deputy Director of the National
Geospatial-Intelligence Agency (NGA) on July 1, 2019. In this role, she
assisted the director both in leading the agency and in managing the
National System for Geospatial Intelligence. From 2018 to 2019, she
served as the fourth director of the Intelligence Advanced Research
Projects Activity (IARPA), after serving as its deputy director from
2016 to 2018. Before joining IARPA, Dr. Dixon served as the deputy
director of NGA’s research directorate, where she oversaw geospatial
intelligence research and development. Prior to that, she served as
NGA’s chief of congressional and intergovernmental affairs, and then
deputy director of NGA’s corporate communications office. From 2007 to
2010, she was a staff member for the House Permanent Select Committee on
Intelligence, and from 2003 to 2007, she worked for the Central
Intelligence Agency, where she was assigned to the National
Reconnaissance Office’s advanced systems and technology directorate.

Dr. Dixon holds both a doctorate and master’s degree in mechanical
engineering from the Georgia Institute of Technology, and a bachelor’s
degree in mechanical engineering from Stanford University. She was also
a chemical engineering postdoctoral fellow at the University of
Minnesota. She additionally serves as a presidentially nominated member
of the Board of Visitors to the U.S. Coast Guard Academy, an appointed
NGA Liaison to the United States Geospatial Intelligence Foundation
(USGIF) Board of Directors, and an appointed NGA Liaison to the Spelman
College Center of Excellence for Minority Women in STEM (COE-MWS)
Leadership Advisory Board. Dr. Dixon is a native of the District of
Columbia, where she currently resides.

**<u>Ely Ratner, Nominee for Assistant Secretary of Defense,
Indo-Pacific Security Affairs, Department of Defense</u>**

Ely Ratner is currently a Special Assistant to the Secretary of Defense
and director of the Department’s China Task Force. From 2015 to 2017,
Dr. Ratner served as the Deputy National Security Advisor to Vice
President Joe Biden, and from 2011 to 2012 in the Office of Chinese and
Mongolian affairs at the State Department. He also previously worked in
the U.S. Senate as a Professional Staff Member on the Senate Foreign
Relations Committee and in the office of Senator Joe Biden.

Outside of government, Ratner has worked as the executive vice president
and director of studies at the Center for a New American Security, a
senior fellow for China studies at the Council on Foreign Relations, and
as an associate political scientist at the RAND Corporation. Ratner
received his B.A. from Princeton University and a Ph.D. in Political
Science from the University of California, Berkeley.

**<u>Rena Bitter, Nominee for Assistant Secretary of State, Consular
Affairs, Department of State</u>**

Rena Bitter, a career member of the Senior Foreign Service, class of
Minister-Counselor, is Dean of the Leadership and Management School at
the State Department’s Foreign Service Institute and a former U.S.
Ambassador to the Lao People’s Democratic Republic.  Previously, she was
the U.S. Consul General in Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam, and chief of the
consular section in Amman, Jordan.  She also served in London, Bogota,
and Mexico City.  In Washington, she was Director of the State
Department’s Operations Center, and a Special Assistant to the Secretary
of State.  Bitter has a Bachelor’s Degree from Northwestern University,
and a J.D. from Southern Methodist University.  She is a recipient of
American Citizens Abroad’s Thomas Jefferson Award for outstanding
service to the American community abroad.  She speaks Spanish, Arabic
and Vietnamese.   

\###
