---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-04-14'
modified_time: 2021-04-14 19:37:57-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/04/14/president-biden-announces-erika-l-moritsugu-as-deputy-assistant-to-the-president-and-asian-american-and-pacific-islander-senior-liaison/
published_time: 2021-04-14 19:37:56-04:00
title: "President\_Biden Announces Erika L. Moritsugu as Deputy Assistant to the President\
  \ and Asian American and Pacific Islander Senior\_Liaison"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Joe Biden announced Erika L. Moritsugu as
Deputy Assistant to the President and Asian American and Pacific
Islander (AAPI) Senior Liaison. Moritsugu will bring her experience and
expertise to the Biden-Harris Administration where she will be a vital
voice to advance the President and the Administration’s priorities.

**<u>Erika L. Moritsugu, Deputy Assistant to the President and AAPI
Senior Liaison</u>**

Erika L. Moritsugu, currently the Vice President at National Partnership
for Women & Families has spent her career in the federal government and
politics fighting for social justice and the empowerment of communities
and individuals. She served as the Assistant Secretary for Congressional
and Intergovernmental Relations at the Department of Housing and Urban
Development under the leadership of Secretary Julián Castro in the Obama
Administration after being confirmed by the Senate in 2014.

Moritsugu was recently appointed as the Vice President of a newly formed
Congressional Relations team to lead an enterprise-wide advocacy
strategy across all of the Partnership’s program areas, including
economic justice and health justice. Prior to her work at the National
Partnership, Moritsugu led the Government Relations, Advocacy and
Community Engagement team at the Anti-Defamation League, a leading
anti-hate organization that was founded in 1913 in response to an
escalating climate of antisemitism and bigotry.

Moritsugu has diverse and deep experience on Capitol Hill and within
governmental agencies. Moritsugu served as the General Counsel for
Senator Tammy Duckworth of Illinois, for whom she provided legislative
and political strategic counsel and managed the Senator’s AAPI outreach
and judiciary, civil rights and economic policies. She was the Deputy
Assistant Director for Legislative Affairs at the newly-established
Consumer Financial Protection Bureau; Deputy Legislative Director for
Senator Daniel K. Akaka of Hawai’i focused on economic policy and health
issues; and held several different roles at the Senate Democratic Policy
Committee under Senate Majority Leader Harry Reid of Nevada, including
Acting Staff Director and Policy Director and economic policy advisor.
She previously worked at the White House Office of Presidential
Personnel, the Prosecutor’s Office for the City and County of Honolulu,
and the U.S. Department of Justice’s Criminal Division. Before
recommitting to a career in public service, she practiced international
trade, legislative, and immigration law at Hogan and Hartson and managed
grassroots and coalition-building campaigns at The Wexler Group.

Moritsugu attended Brandeis University, the College of William and Mary,
and George Washington Law School. Born in California and raised in
Hawai’i, Moritsugu lives on Capitol Hill with her husband, Brian, their
two children Vianne Leilani and Chester Likeke, and their two cats.

\###
