---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-04-28'
modified_time: 2021-04-28 15:48:37-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/04/28/president-biden-announces-16-key-administration-nominations/
published_time: 2021-04-28 15:48:36-04:00
title: "President\_Biden Announces 16 Key Administration\_Nominations"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Joe Biden announced his intent to nominate
the following individuals to serve in key administration positions.

-   Cathy Harris, Nominee for Chair of the Merit Systems Protection
    Board
-   Geraldine Richmond, Under Secretary for Science, Department of
    Energy
-   Daryl Baldwin, Nominee for Member of the National Council on the
    Humanities
-   Sean Burton, Nominee for Member of the Board of Directors of the
    Metropolitan Washington Airports Authority
-   Genine Macks Fidler, Nominee for Member of the National Council on
    the Humanities
-   Beverly Gage, Nominee for Member of the National Council on the
    Humanities
-   Karen Hedlund, Nominee for Member of the Surface Transportation
    Board
-   Sylvia Johnson, Nominee for Member of the Chemical Safety and Hazard
    Investigation Board
-   Andrew Light, Nominee for Assistant Secretary of International
    Affairs, Department of Energy
-   Jane Nishida, Nominee for Assistant Administrator for International
    and Tribal Affairs, Environmental Protection Agency
-   Lynette Overby, Nominee for Member of the National Council on the
    Humanities
-   Steve Owens, Nominee for Member of the Chemical Safety and Hazard
    Investigation Board
-   Jeffrey Prieto, Nominee for General Counsel, Environmental
    Protection Agency
-   Roberto Rodriguez, Nominee for Assistant Secretary of Planning,
    Evaluation, and Policy Development, Department of Education
-   Jennifer Sass, Nominee for Member of the Chemical Safety and Hazard
    Investigation Board
-   Sam Walsh, Nominee for General Counsel, Department of Energy

**<u>Cathy Harris, Nominee for Chair of the Merit Systems Protection
Board</u>**

Cathy A. Harris is co-manager of the firm of Kator, Parks, Weiser &
Harris, PLLC, in Washington, DC. She serves as the Chair of the firm’s
Sexual Harassment and LGBT Practice sections. Ms. Harris has practiced
employment law, including before the Merit Systems Protection Board, for
over two decades. She has extensive experience in the litigation and
settlement of federal sector employment class actions, and also
represents individual employees. She graduated from the George
Washington University Law School in Washington, DC with honors in 1997,
where she was a member and editor on the George Washington Law Review.
She received the Michael D. Cooley award for most successfully
maintaining her compassion, vitality and humanity during law school and
was elected to give the salutatory address at commencement. Ms. Harris
received her undergraduate degree from Brown University in 1994.

Prior to joining Kator, Parks, Weiser & Harris, PLLC, Ms. Harris was an
Assistant District Attorney in the New York County District Attorney’s
Office. She also served as an Adjunct Professor at the George Washington
University Law School from 2001 to 2004. She resides in Silver Spring,
Maryland with her wife and daughter.

**<u>Geraldine Richmond, Under Secretary for Science, Department of
Energy</u>**

Geraldine Richmond is the Presidential Chair in Science and Professor of
Chemistry at the University of Oregon. Bridging the fields of chemistry
and physics, Richmond’s research focusses on understanding the molecular
characteristics of water surfaces, studies that have relevance to
environmental issues such as oil remediation, atmospheric chemistry and
alternative energy sources.  Her teaching and extensive outreach efforts
have focused on science communication and building a strong and
inclusive workforce.  She has been honored by numerous honors and awards
including the National Medal of Science from President Obama (2016), the
Presidential Award for Excellence in Science, Mathematics and
Engineering Mentoring from President Clinton (1997) and the American
Chemical Society’s highest honor, the Priestley Medal (2018).   Richmond
is a member of the National Academy of Sciences, and is a Fellow of the
American Academy of Arts and Sciences, the American Chemical Society,
the American Physical Society and the Association for Women in Science.

A native of Kansas, Richmond received her B.S. in chemistry from Kansas
State University in 1975 and her Ph.D. in physical chemistry at the
University of California, Berkeley in 1980. 

**<u>Daryl Baldwin, Nominee for Member of the National Council on the
Humanities</u>**

Daryl Baldwin (Kinwalaniihsia), is a citizen of the Miami Tribe of
Oklahoma and serves as the Executive Director of the Myaamia Center at
Miami University in Oxford, Ohio and Co-Director of the National Breath
of Life Archival Institute for Indigenous Languages.

Baldwin’s forefathers were active in the political affairs of the Miami
Nation dating back to the eighteenth century, and he continues this
dedication to tribal self-determination through his efforts in language
and cultural revitalization today. Baldwin was born during the
mid-twentieth century, at a time when the last speakers of his heritage
language were passing. This loss motivated him to begin seeking
documented language resources and linguistic support, which ultimately
led him to pursue an MA in English-Linguistics at the University of
Montana. With the support of his wife Karen, together they embarked in
1991 on the difficult work of raising their four children with the
language in a homeschool environment, which lasted for 18 years.

Daryl was born and raised in Northwest Ohio and currently resides with
his wife Karen on their family farm in Liberty, Indiana. Together they
have four children and two grandchildren who continue to inspire and
encourage a hopeful future towards the continuance of their tribal
nation.

**<u>Sean Burton, Nominee for Member of the Board of Directors of the
Metropolitan Washington Airports Authority</u>**

Sean Burton is the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Cityview.
Cityview is a real estate firm that has invested institutional capital
to build or rehab over 150 multifamily and workforce housing projects
throughout the United States.  Since 2013, Mr. Burton has served as the
President of the Los Angeles Board of Airport Commissioners, which
oversees LAX and Van Nuys airports.  During this time, the Board oversaw
the adoption and implementation of a $16 billion modernization plan to
upgrade all terminals, build a new international terminal, develop the
largest consolidated rental car facility in the world and connect LAX to
public transit via an automated people mover train system.  Mr. Burton
previously served on the Los Angeles City Planning Commission and is
currently a member of the Young Presidents Organization and the Real
Estate Roundtable.  He also served in the Defense Intelligence Agency
and the Commander Third Fleet Units of the United States Navy Reserve. 
Prior to joining Cityview in 2003, Mr. Burton was an executive in the
Corporate Business Development and Strategy Division for Warner Bros.,
where he was responsible for strategic investments. His other
professional experience includes serving as a transactional attorney at
O’Melveny & Myers, LLP and in the White House and Democratic National
Committee during the Clinton Administration.  Mr. Burton is a graduate
(cum laude) of the New York University School of Law and the University
of California, Irvine. He and his wife, Teresa, live in Los Angeles and
have two children, Russell and Grace.

**<u>Genine Macks Fidler, Nominee for Member of the National Council on
the Humanities</u>**

After practicing Trusts and Estates law for over a decade, Genine Macks
Fidler focused on community and philanthropic endeavors. Most recently,
Mrs. Fidler’s alma mater, Brown University, has been the center of these
efforts. In July of 2020, she became a Trustee Emerita at Brown after
concluding a six- year term as a University Trustee. She continues to
serve Brown in numerous capacities.

In mid-March of 2020, with the onset of the COVID 19 Pandemic, Mrs.
Fidler with her PACI co-chair, initiated and drove Brown’s effort to
reimagine a meaningful summer experience for Brown students. In
approximately 12 weeks her team marshalled all University stakeholders
and the global network of Brown alumni and parents to develop, create
and oversee a seven-week virtual summer program, the Brown Connect
Summer Institute (BCSI.) The BCSI provided students with an immersive,
impactful and educational experience during a summer of unprecedented
disruption. Over 1,000 students enrolled in the BCSI and several hundred
alumni and parents participated in the program as presenters and project
leaders.

In 2004, Mrs. Fidler was a founding member and initial co-chair of
Brown’s Women’s Leadership Council (WLC). She remains a WLC member. In
2018 after a decade hiatus, Mrs. Fidler returned to the BROWN/RISD
Hillel board and continues there as a Trustee.

Mrs. Fidler graduated from Brown University in 1977 with a BA in
American Civilization.  She earned her JD (Cum Laude) from New York
University School of Law in 1980 where she was an editor of the Law
Review, member of the Order of the Coif, and recipient of the George P.
Foulk Memorial Award for “outstanding sincerity and distinguished
scholarship.” Mrs. Fidler began her legal career in New York City at
Willkie, Farr & Gallagher specializing in personal service, taxation,
trusts and estates, and not-for-profits.  Returning to her hometown of
Baltimore, MD in 1985, she continued this practice specialty as counsel
to the law firm of Shapiro & Olander. Mrs. Fidler is now retired from
the active practice of law. Mrs. Fidler and her husband live in Naples,
Florida.

**<u>Beverly Gage, Nominee for Member of the National Council on the
Humanities</u>**

Beverly Gage is Professor of History and American Studies, and
Brady-Johnson Professor of Grand Strategy at Yale University, where she
specializes in 20th-century U.S. political history. She is the author of
*The Day Wall Street Exploded: A Story of America in its First Age of
Terror* (Oxford), which examines the history of terrorism in the late
19th and early 20th centuries, focusing on the 1920 Wall Street bombing.
She is currently completing *G-Man: J. Edgar Hoover and the American
Century*, a sweeping biography of J. Edgar Hoover, who led the Federal
Bureau of Investigation for 48 years (Viking). In addition to her
teaching and research, Professor Gage writes widely as an essayist and
public intellectual. As a contributing writer at the New York Times
Magazine, she has explored subjects ranging from the history of
civil-service “independence” to “law and order” politics to current
dilemmas in U.S. foreign policy. At the Washington Post, she has written
about the lingering effects of McCarthysim and the histories of the FBI
and CIA, among other subjects. Her research on Hoover and the FBI has
been widely featured in documentary films including “MLK/FBI”, “The
Bombing of Wall Street”, “Enemies: The President, Justice & the FBI”,
and “The Black Panthers: Vanguard of the Revolution”.

As Director of Undergraduate Studies in History at Yale, Professor Gage
led an effort to redesign the history major, working closely with both
students and faculty to ensure that the study of history and the
humanities remains vibrant in the 21st century. She has carried on that
work as Director of Yale’s Brady-Johnson Program in Grand Strategy, a
selective interdisciplinary program that connects the academic study of
history and the humanities with the practice of politics, statecraft,
and social change. In 2015, she was elected to serve as the inaugural
chair of Yale’s Faculty of Arts and Sciences Senate, where she worked
closely with colleagues to create an effective voice for faculty on
campus. In all of these endeavors, she has been guided by a commitment
to exploring how history and the humanities can inform the most
significant challenges of the contemporary world. Gage earned her B.A.
from Yale University (1994, American Studies, magna cum laude, Phi Beta
Kappa) and her Ph.D. in History from Columbia University (2004, Bancroft
dissertation award). At Yale, she received the Sarai Ribicoff Award for
excellence in teaching.

**<u>Karen Hedlund, Nominee for Member of the Surface Transportation
Board</u>**

Karen Hedlund has spent most of her career as a legal advisor to
federal, state, and local governments on the development and financing
of infrastructure projects across the United States, including rail,
transit, highways, airports, water and energy facilities. She brought
that experience to the Federal Highway Administration as Chief Counsel
and then to the Federal Railroad Administration (FRA) as Chief Counsel
and Deputy Administrator. In the latter role she helped implement and
provide oversight of the $10 billion intercity passenger rail program
and the funding of improvements to  the national freight rail system.
Prior to joining the Department of Transportation, Hedlund served as a
partner of the Nossaman LLP, advising state and local government clients
on the use of public-private partnerships. Since stepping down from FRA,
she has been involved in the development of major passenger rail
projects, including the Northeast Corridor Gateway Program and the
proposed high-performance rail project that will connect Seattle with
Portland, Oregon and Vancouver, British Columbia.

She has also helped advance public transportation through her leadership
with the American Public Transportation Association, serving as Co-Chair
of its Commuter and High-Speed and Passenger Rail Legislative
Subcommittee. Ms. Hedlund grew up and began her law career in Chicago,
Illinois. She has an AB from Harvard University, and a JD from
Georgetown University Law Center.  She enjoys spending time with her
children and grandchildren in Brooklyn, New York. She currently resides
in Edwards, Colorado.

**<u>Sylvia Johnson, Nominee for Member of the Chemical Safety and
Hazard Investigation Board</u>**

Sylvia E. Johnson, Ph.D. currently works for the National Education
Association in the Government Relations department, where she leads
their legislative work on the safe reopening of schools during the
COVID-19 pandemic, with specific emphasis on educating NEA members on
the safety of the COVID-19 vaccines. Prior to joining NEA, she was the
Assistant Legislative Director of Legislative Affairs for the
International Union, United Automobile, Aerospace and Agricultural
Implement Workers of America (UAW). Some of the issues she worked on
included the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, the Toxic
Substance Control Act, and the Affordable Care Act.  Prior to working in
the Legislative Department, she worked in the UAW’s Health and Safety
Department as an occupational epidemiologist where, in addition to her
work on work-related health studies, she conducted hazard assessments
and investigated incidents involving the death of workers due to either
chemical, biological, or physical exposures.

Dr. Johnson graduated from Fayetteville State University with a Bachelor
of Arts degree in Geography and double minors in Mathematics and
Physics. She earned a Master of Science degree from Virginia
Commonwealth University in Biomedical Engineering with a concentration
in Industrial Hygiene, and a Ph.D. degree from Old Dominion University
in Urban Health Services Research with a concentration in Occupational
and Environmental Health.

**<u>Andrew Light, Nominee for Assistant Secretary of International
Affairs, Department of Energy</u>**

Andrew Light, Ph.D., joined the Biden Administration in January to serve
as the Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary for International Affairs in
the Department of Energy.  Previously he was University Professor of
Philosophy, Public Policy, and Atmospheric Sciences at George Mason
University, and Distinguished Senior Fellow at the World Resources
Institute in Washington, D.C., where he worked at the intersection of
U.S. and international climate and energy policy.  From 2013-2016 he
served as Senior Adviser and India Counselor to the U.S. Special Envoy
on Climate Change and on the staff of Secretary of State John Kerry’s
Office of Policy Planning in the U.S. Department of State.  In this
capacity, he was Director of the U.S.-India Joint Working Group for
Combating Climate Change and Chair of the U.S. Interagency Climate
Working Group for negotiation of the Sustainable Development Goals; he
also served on the senior strategy team for the UN climate negotiations,
among other duties.  In recognition of this work, Light shared in a
Superior Honor Award, from the U.S. Department of State in July 2016 for
“contributions to the U.S. effort that made the 21st Conference of the
Parties to the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change in Paris, where
the landmark Paris Agreement was concluded, a historic success.”

Light has authored or co-authored dozens of policy reports on
international energy and climate issues, and has been a long-time
champion of work demonstrating the benefits of international climate and
energy cooperation on the employment opportunities, security,
environmental quality, and health of the American people.  As the
grandson of two West Virginia coal miners, his understanding of the
vital necessity for a strong U.S. energy economy is rooted in his
childhood.  He grew up in rural Georgia, where he formed an abiding
appreciation of the environment, completing his undergraduate degree at
Mercer University, graduate studies at the University of California at
Riverside, and a post-doctoral fellowship at the University of Alberta. 
He lives with his family in Washington, D.C.

**<u>Jane Nishida, Nominee for Assistant Administrator for International
and Tribal Affairs, Environmental Protection Agency</u>**

Jane Nishida has over thirty years of environmental experience working
in the federal and state government, international and non-governmental
organizations. Ms. Nishida is currently the Principal Deputy Assistant
Administrator for International and Tribal Affairs at the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). In this capacity, she manages
EPA’s international and tribal programs, working closely with foreign
and tribal governments, international and tribal organizations, and
other key stakeholders.  

Prior to joining EPA, Ms. Nishida worked at the World Bank as the Senior
Environmental Institutions Specialist. Ms. Nishida also served as the
Secretary for the Maryland Department of Environment, and as the
Maryland Executive Director of the Chesapeake Bay Foundation. Ms.
Nishida has a Juris Doctorate degree from Georgetown University Law
Center and Bachelor of Arts degree in international relations from Lewis
and Clark College.

**<u>Lynette Overby, Nominee for Member of the National Council on the
Humanities</u>**

Lynnette Young Overby, Ph.D. is a Professor of Theatre and Dance at the
University of Delaware, Deputy Director of the Community Engagement
Initiative, Director of the Partnership for Arts & Culture, and Artistic
Director of the Sharing Our Legacy Dance Theatre.

Overby works at the University of Delaware and with several local,
national and international organizations developing community engagement
programs and projects designed to address racial justice issues. For
example, as Scholarship Chair of the Engaged Scholarship Consortium, and
as Director of the Partnership for Arts & Culture, Overby administers
social justice grant programs for faculty and community partners. Over
the years, thousands of community partners have benefited from the work
of these projects.

She is the author or coauthor of over 60 publications, including 14
edited, co-authored and authored books. Her contributions have earned
her more than 20 state, district, and national awards and honors,
including the 2018 Lifetime achievement award for the National Dance
Education Organization. Overby has served as an officer/board member in
several national and international organizations, including The National
Dance Association and dance and the Child international.  She is
currently collaborating with literary historian P. Gabrielle Foreman on
“Performing History” research.  Her most recent production, “Mary Ann
Shadd Cary, Her life and Legacy” has taken place in Delaware, Texas,
Alabama, Virginia, Washington, DC., Australia, South Africa and Belize.
Through arts and community engagement collaborations, Overby has
facilitated projects focused on increasing emphathy and knowledge in
communities.  

**<u>Steve Owens, Nominee for Member of the Chemical Safety and Hazard
Investigation Board</u>**

Steve Owens is an attorney with Squire Patton Boggs (US) LLP in Phoenix,
Arizona, where he focuses on environmental, safety and health issues. 
From 2009-2011, Steve served as the U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency’s (EPA) Assistant Administrator for the Office of Chemical Safety
and Pollution Prevention (OCSPP).  As the Assistant Administrator for
OCSPP, Steve was responsible for managing EPA’s regulatory programs on
chemicals and pesticides under the Toxic Substances Control Act , the
Federal Insecticide, Fungicide and Rodenticide Act, and other statutes.

Prior to joining EPA, Owens was Director of the Arizona Department of
Environmental Quality from 2003-2009, where he made addressing climate
change, protecting children’s environmental health, and working closely
with Arizona’s tribal nations top priorities for the department.  Owens
graduated with honors from Brown University in 1978 and received his law
degree in 1981 from Vanderbilt Law School, where he was Editor-in-Chief
of the Vanderbilt Law Review.  From 1982-1984, Owens served as Counsel
to the Subcommittee on Investigations and Oversight of the U.S. House
Committee on Science and Technology.  During 1985-1988, Owens was Chief
Counsel and later state director for then-U.S. Senator Al Gore.  From
1999-2002 Owens served as a member of the Joint Public Advisory
Committee of the North American Commission on Environmental
Cooperation.  Steve is a former member of EPA’s Clean Air Act Advisory
Committee and EPA’s Children’s Health Protection Advisory Committee, as
well as a former president of the Environmental Council of the States
(ECOS), the national association of state environmental agency
directors.

**<u>Jeffrey Prieto, Nominee for General Counsel, Environmental
Protection Agency</u>**

Jeffrey Prieto is the General Counsel of the Los Angeles Community
College District. His prior federal government service includes nearly
20 years across various agencies. Prieto began his Federal career as a
White House Fellow assigned to the Secretary of Health and Human
Services. He then served as an Attorney-Advisor at the Environmental
Protection Agency’s (EPA) Office of Water. While at EPA, he was a member
of the Phase II NPDES Storm Water team. He also served as a Trial
Attorney, Counsel to the Assistant Attorney General, Deputy Executive
Officer, and General Counsel in the Environment and Natural Resources
Division (ENRD). He was lead counsel on a number of cases while at ENRD,
including some of the Division’s highest-profile matters. Prieto served
as the Chair of ENRD’s Diversity Committee Working Group and as Co-Chair
of the ENRD’s Environmental Justice Plan implementation.

Under the Obama-Biden administration, he served as the Senate confirmed
General Counsel of the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA).
He was responsible for providing legal advice and services to the
Secretary of Agriculture and to all other officials and agencies with
respect to all USDA programs, operations, and activities. He was
involved in all major USDA litigation, including class action matters,
high-profile investigations, and major legislation.

Prior to his federal service, Prieto worked as environmental planner for
a California municipality. Following his federal tenure, he has
continued his public service as the general counsel of the largest
community college district in the nation. Prieto earned a BA in history
from the University of California, Santa Barbara, a J.D. from the
University of California, Los Angeles School of Law, and a Masters in
Public Affairs and Urban and Regional Planning from Princeton
University. Prieto is a native Californian and lives in Los Angeles with
his wife.

**<u>Roberto Rodriguez, Nominee for Assistant Secretary of Planning,
Evaluation, and Policy Development, Department of Education</u>**

Roberto Rodríguez brings extensive policy leadership, expertise, and
lifelong commitment to advancing educational equity and opportunity. 
His distinguished career in public service includes senior government
roles across two presidential administrations, on the White House
Domestic Policy Council, and in the U.S. Senate for the late Senator
Edward M. Kennedy (D-MA). 

His dedication to education began by elevating the voices of Latino
families, students and educators.  Over the past two decades, he has
played a key role in virtually every major education policy effort and
legislative reform at the national level.

Twice appointed by President Barack Obama as Special Assistant and
Deputy Assistant to the President for Education, Rodríguez developed and
led the Obama Administration’s signature education initiatives across
federal agencies.  In these roles, he crafted proposals to expand early
education; support the adoption of college and career-ready standards in
schools; and increase college access and affordability.  Rodríguez
guided the Administration’s reforms of the student loan program,
increases in the Pell Grant, and support for community colleges.  In
2015, his work with bipartisan Congressional leaders resulted in the
enactment of the Every Student Succeeds Act.  Rodríguez’s service on the
Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee from 2001-2009
led to the successful bipartisan passage of the No Child Left Behind Act
of 2001, the Individuals with Disabilities Education Improvement Act of
2004, the Head Start for School Readiness Act of 2007, and the Higher
Education Opportunity Act of 2008.

Rodríguez is currently President and CEO of Teach Plus, a national
non-profit organization dedicated to elevating teacher leadership and
voices to advance educational equity. The son of public school
educators, his parents and grandparents immigrated to the U.S. from the
Dominican Republic, Venezuela and Mexico.  Rodríguez grew up in Grand
Rapids, Michigan and holds a B.A. from the University of Michigan and a
M.Ed. from Harvard University.  He lives in Washington, D.C. with his
wife and two children. 

**<u>Jennifer Sass, Nominee for Member of the Chemical Safety and Hazard
Investigation Board</u>**

Jennifer Sass is a Senior Scientist at the Natural Resources Defense
Council, an environmental non-profit organization, where she has served
since 2001., Since 2008, she has served as  part-time faculty at the
George Washington University Milken School of Public Health. Much of Dr
Sass’ work is focused on understanding and explaining the science behind
toxic chemical regulation and on advocating for regulations that are
consistent with science, health policy, and environmental law. She
frequently provides testimony and scientific briefings for members of
Congress and federal advisory committees and is a lecturer at George
Washington University’s department of environmental and occupational
health. She has published over four dozen articles in peer-reviewed
journals. She was a Board Member of the NIEHS National Toxicology
Program Board of Scientific Counselors (2016-2020). She holds BSc, MSc,
and PhD  degrees from the University of Saskatchewan, College of
Medicine, Department of Anatomy and Cell Biology, and a Post-Doctoral
Certificate (2000) from the University of Maryland, College of Medicine,
Program in Human Health and the Environment.

**<u>Sam Walsh, Nominee for General Counsel, Department of Energy</u>**

Samuel T. Walsh is an attorney and former Deputy General Counsel for
Energy Policy at the U.S. Department of Energy.  In his more than six
years at the Department of Energy during the Obama Administration, he
also served as Associate General Counsel and Senior Legal Advisor to the
General Counsel.  Walsh is currently a lawyer in private practice at
Harris, Wiltshire & Grannis LLP.  Prior to his service at the Department
of Energy, he also worked as an associate in the energy group at Hogan
Lovells LLP and as a law clerk to the Hon. Judge David S. Tatel of the
U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit.  Walsh holds
a B.A. from Yale College, an M.P.A. from the Harvard Kennedy School, and
a J.D. from Harvard Law School.  Originally from New York, Walsh now
lives in Washington D.C. with his wife and two children.

\###
