---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-04-21'
modified_time: 2021-04-21 10:56:36-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/04/21/fact-sheet-president-biden-to-call-on-all-employers-to-provide-paid-time-off-for-employees-to-get-vaccinated-after-meeting-goal-of-200-million-shots-in-the-first-100-days/
published_time: 2021-04-21 12:00:00-04:00
title: 'FACT SHEET: President Biden to Call on All Employers to Provide Paid Time
  Off for Employees to Get Vaccinated After Meeting Goal of 200 Million Shots in the
  First 100 Days'
---
 
*Will Announce New Tax Credit to Fully Offset the Cost for Small
Businesses and Nonprofits Who Provide Paid Leave for Employees to Get
Vaccinated*

Today, President Biden will announce that he expects we will meet his
goal of 200 million shots administered in 100 days on Thursday—a goal he
doubled after meeting his original goal of 100 million shots by day 58
of the Administration. As the Administration works to get even more
people vaccinated, President Biden will call on employers across America
to do everything they can to help their employees – and their
communities – get vaccinated.

As part of that effort, President Biden is calling on every employer in
America to offer full pay to their employees for any time off needed to
get vaccinated and for any time it takes to recover from the
after-effects of vaccination. He will announce a paid leave tax credit
that will offset the cost for employers with fewer than 500 employees to
provide full pay for any time their employees need to get a COVID-19
vaccination or recover from that vaccination.

Providing paid time off for vaccinations is an investment in the safety,
productivity and health of an employer’s own workforce and their
community. No working person in this country should lose a single dollar
from their paycheck to take time to get the shot or recover from it. The
paid leave tax credit that President Biden signed into the law in the
American Rescue Plan ensures that no small businesses or non-profits
will lose a single dollar by providing such paid leave to workers
receiving a vaccination. 

This week, we reached a new phase in the vaccination effort. Starting
Monday, in response to the President’s directive, every adult aged 16
and over in every state and territory is now eligible to get vaccinated.
Now is the time to step up our efforts to reach every working-age adult
in America, and today’s announcement to help employers offset the cost
of paid time off is an important step in getting America’s workforce
vaccinated.

Today’s announcements include:

-   **A Tax Credit for Small- and Medium-sized Businesses to Fully
    Offset the Cost of Paid Leave for Employees to Get Vaccinated and
    Recover from Any After-Effects of Vaccination.** Thanks to President
    Biden’s American Rescue Plan, a paid leave tax credit will offset
    the cost for businesses and nonprofits with fewer than 500 employees
    for up to 80 hours (i.e. 10 work days) up to $511 per day of paid
    sick leave offered between April 1 and September 30, 2021. This tax
    credit will allow these employers to provide paid leave for
    employees to get a COVID-19 vaccination and for any time their
    employees may need to recover from that vaccination at no cost to
    the employer. This tax credit will apply to nearly half of all
    private sector employees in America. Today, the Internal Revenue
    Service (IRS) [released and posted a fact
    sheet](https://www.irs.gov/newsroom/employer-tax-credits-for-employee-paid-leave-due-to-covid-19)
    to educate employers on how to claim the paid sick leave credit on
    their quarterly tax filings. For more details on how the paid leave
    tax credits from the American Rescue Plan will work for employers to
    enable employees to get vaccinated and recover from after-effects of
    vaccination, as well as for other purposes, please consult this
    [snapshot](https://home.treasury.gov/system/files/136/Paid-Leave-Credit-Snapshot.pdf)
    from the Department of the Treasury.

<!-- -->

-   **A Call for Employers – Large and Small – to Take Additional Steps
    to Help Get Their Employees and Communities Vaccinated.** President
    Biden is also calling on employers to use their unique resources to
    provide information about how people can get vaccinated and why
    people should get vaccinated. Consistent with U.S. Department of
    Health and Human Services’ “We Can Do This” national campaign, he is
    also calling on employers to make commitments to provide accurate
    and timely information and incentivize all Americans to get
    vaccinated. These commitments could include discounts for vaccinated
    individuals, product giveaways or brand rewards, messaging in-store,
    point-of purchase promotions, direct outreach to customers, or
    Public Service Announcements (PSAs) about the importance of
    vaccinations. Employers who wish to make a commitment to get their
    employees and communities vaccinated should do so
    [here](https://forms.office.com/Pages/ResponsePage.aspx?id=6t2K1VNQgEqEmbpNlEkQ36KJAIv29jFOvCm6Z-NtLjZUNDBNOFhUN1FGTVIwTVBOWERKRlQ0Q0lKVi4u).

Building on today’s IRS release and the American Rescue Plan’s
provisions, the Administration is committed to expanding paid leave more
generally. That’s why the tax credit in the American Rescue Plan will
enable employers with fewer than 500 employees to claim up to $17,110
for 14 weeks of paid leave for each impacted employee not only to get
vaccinated, but also to take time off if they have COVID-19 symptoms and
are going to the doctor; are getting tested for COVID-19; are under
quarantine or isolation order by the government or a doctor (or are
caring for someone who is); or have to care for a child whose school or
child care provider closed, due to COVID-19. Paid leave has been shown
to be a critical tool for stopping the spread of COVID-19, including one
study that showed that the paid leave provisions put in place last year
prevented approximately 400 COVID-19 cases per day and prevented one
COVID-19 case per day per 1,300 workers. And, it will be a critical
component of ensuring that Americans can reenter or stay in the
workforce as we continue to fight the virus and recover from the
economic effects of COVID-19.

**\###**
