---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-04-07'
modified_time: 2021-04-07 21:31:07-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/04/07/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-initial-actions-to-address-the-gun-violence-public-health-epidemic/
published_time: 2021-04-07 20:00:00-04:00
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Announces Initial Actions to\
  \ Address the Gun Violence Public Health\_Epidemic"
---
 
Today, the Biden-Harris Administration is announcing six initial actions
to address the gun violence public health epidemic. The recent
high-profile mass shootings in Boulder – taking the lives of 10
individuals – and Atlanta – taking the lives of eight individuals,
including six Asian American women – underscored the relentlessness of
this epidemic. Gun violence takes lives and leaves a lasting legacy of
trauma in communities every single day in this country, even when it is
not on the nightly news. In fact, cities across the country are in the
midst of a historic spike in homicides, violence that disproportionately
impacts Black and brown Americans. The President is committed to taking
action to reduce all forms of gun violence – community violence, mass
shootings, domestic violence, and suicide by firearm.  
  
President Biden is reiterating his call for Congress to pass legislation
to reduce gun violence. Last month, a bipartisan coalition in the House
passed two bills to close loopholes in the gun background check system.
Congress should close those loopholes and go further, including by
closing “boyfriend” and stalking loopholes that currently allow people
found by the courts to be abusers to possess firearms, banning assault
weapons and high capacity magazines, repealing gun manufacturers’
immunity from liability, and investing in evidence-based community
violence interventions. Congress should also pass an appropriate
national “red flag” law, as well as legislation incentivizing states to
pass “red flag” laws of their own.  
  
But this Administration will not wait for Congress to act to take its
own steps – fully within the Administration’s authority and the Second
Amendment – to save lives. Today, the Administration is announcing the
following six initial actions:  
  
**The Justice Department, within 30 days, will issue a proposed rule to
help stop the proliferation of “ghost guns.”** We are experiencing a
growing problem: criminals are buying kits containing nearly all of the
components and directions for finishing a firearm within as little as 30
minutes and using these firearms to commit crimes. When these firearms
turn up at crime scenes, they often cannot be traced by law enforcement
due to the lack of a serial number. The Justice Department will issue a
proposed rule to help stop the proliferation of these firearms.  
  
**The Justice Department, within 60 days, will issue a proposed rule to
make clear when a device marketed as a stabilizing brace effectively
turns a pistol into a short-barreled rifle subject to the requirements
of the National Firearms Act. **The alleged shooter in the Boulder
tragedy last month appears to have used a pistol with an arm brace,
which can make a firearm more stable and accurate while still being
concealable.  
  
**The Justice Department, within 60 days, will publish model “red flag”
legislation for states. **Red flag laws allow family members or law
enforcement to petition for a court order temporarily barring people in
crisis from accessing firearms if they present a danger to themselves or
others. The President urges Congress to pass an appropriate national
“red flag” law, as well as legislation incentivizing states to pass “red
flag” laws of their own. In the interim, the Justice Department’s
published model legislation will make it easier for states that want to
adopt red flag laws to do so.  
  
**The Administration is investing in evidence-based community violence
interventions.** Community violence interventions are proven strategies
for reducing gun violence in urban communities through tools other than
incarceration. Because cities across the country are experiencing a
historic spike in homicides, the Biden-Harris Administration is taking a
number of steps to prioritize investment in community violence
interventions.

-   The American Jobs Plan proposes a $5 billion investment over eight
    years to support community violence intervention programs. A key
    part of community violence intervention strategies is to help
    connect individuals to job training and job opportunities.
-   The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services is organizing a
    webinar and toolkit to educate states on how they can use Medicaid
    to reimburse certain community violence intervention programs, like
    Hospital-Based Violence Interventions.
-   Five federal agencies are making changes to 26 different programs to
    direct vital support to community violence intervention programs as
    quickly as possible. These changes mean we can start increasing
    investments in community violence interventions as we wait on
    Congress to appropriate additional funds. *[Read more about these
    agency actions
    here.](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/04/07/fact-sheet-more-details-on-the-biden-harris-administrations-investments-in-community-violence-interventions/)*

**The Justice Department will issue an annual report on firearms
trafficking.** In 2000, the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, and Firearms
(ATF) issued a report summarizing information regarding its
investigations into firearms trafficking, which is one way firearms are
diverted into the illegal market where they can easily end up in the
hands of dangerous individuals. Since the report’s publication, states,
local, and federal policymakers have relied on its data to better thwart
the common channels of firearms trafficking. But there is good reason to
believe that firearms trafficking channels have changed since 2000, for
example due to the emergence of online sales and proliferation of “ghost
guns.” The Justice Department will issue a new, comprehensive report on
firearms trafficking and annual updates necessary to give policymakers
the information they need to help address firearms trafficking today.

**The President will nominate David Chipman to serve as Director of the
Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, and Firearms. **ATF is the key agency
enforcing our gun laws, and it needs a confirmed director in order to do
the job to the best of its ability. But ATF has not had a confirmed
director since 2015. Chipman served at ATF for 25 years and now works to
advance commonsense gun safety laws.

\###
