---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-04-12'
modified_time: 2021-04-20 08:20:05-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/04/12/president-biden-announces-his-intent-to-nominate-key-members-for-the-u-s-department-of-homeland-security/
published_time: 2021-04-12 11:47:50-04:00
title: "President\_Biden Announces His Intent to Nominate Key Members for the U.S.\
  \ Department of Homeland\_Security"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Joe Biden announced his intent to nominate
key leadership for the U.S. Department of Homeland Security; John Tien
for Deputy Secretary, Jen Easterly for Director of Cybersecurity &
Infrastructure Security Agency, Ur Jaddou for Director of United States
Citizenship and Immigration Services, Chris Magnus for Commissioner of
U.S. Customs and Border Protection, Jonathan Meyer for General Counsel,
and Robert Silvers for Under Secretary for Strategy, Policy, and Plans.

**<u>John Tien, Nominee for Deputy Secretary</u>**

John Tien previously served in the Obama Administration as the National
Security Council Senior Director for Afghanistan and Pakistan from
2009-2011. Since 2011, Tien has been a Citigroup managing director.
Prior to joining Citi, Tien was a combat arms officer for 24 years in
the active duty U.S. Army and retired in 2011 as a Colonel. He is a
veteran of three combat tours in Iraq to include being the Task Force
2-37 M1A1 Abrams Tank Battalion Commander in Operation Iraqi Freedom
from 2006-2007. His other military assignments include staff and
leadership positions in Germany, California, Kansas, Kentucky, New York,
and Texas. He served as a National Security Council Director for Iraq in
the Bush Administration, and as a White House Fellow in the Office of
the United States Trade Representative during the Clinton
Administration. His military awards and decorations include the Bronze
Star Medal with one oak leaf cluster, the Combat Action Badge, and the
Valorous Unit Award. From 1986-1987, he was the first Asian American to
ever serve as West Point’s First Captain and Brigade Commander, the
United States Military Academy’s top ranked cadet position. He holds a
B.S. in Civil Engineering from West Point, an M.A. from Oxford
University where he was also a Rhodes Scholar, and was a National
Security Fellow at the Harvard Kennedy School. He resides in Atlanta
with his wife Tracy Tien, their two daughters, Amanda and Rebecca.

**<u>Jen Easterly, Nominee for Director of Cybersecurity &
Infrastructure Security Agency</u>**

Jen Easterly is Head of Firm Resilience and the Fusion Resilience Center
at Morgan Stanley, responsible for ensuring preparedness and response to
operational risks to the Firm. A member of the Firm’s Technology
Operating Committee and a Trustee of the Morgan Stanley Foundation,
Easterly joined Morgan Stanley in 2017 to build and lead its
Cybersecurity Fusion Center, the operational cornerstone of the Firm’s
cyber defense strategy. Most recently, she served as the Cyber Policy
Lead for the Biden-Harris Transition Team. Earlier in her career,
Easterly served at the White House as Special Assistant to the President
and Senior Director for Counterterrorism and as the Deputy for
Counterterrorism at the National Security Agency. A two-time recipient
of the Bronze Star, Easterly retired from the U.S. Army after more than
twenty years of service in intelligence and cyber operations, including
tours of duty in Haiti, the Balkans, Iraq, and Afghanistan. Responsible
for standing up the Army’s first cyber battalion, Easterly was also
instrumental in the design and creation of United States Cyber Command.
Easterly is a member of the Council on Foreign Relations, a Senior
International Security Fellow at the New America Foundation, a Visiting
Fellow at the National Security Institute at George Mason University’s
Antonin Scalia Law School, and an Aspen Institute Finance Leaders
Fellow. A distinguished graduate of the United States Military Academy
at West Point, Easterly holds a master’s degree from the University of
Oxford, where she studied as a Rhodes Scholar. She is the recipient of
the James W. Foley Legacy Foundation American Hostage Freedom Award and
the Bradley W. Snyder Changing the Narrative Award.

**<u>Ur Jaddou, Nominee for Director of Citizenship and Immigration
Services</u>**

Ur Mendoza Jaddou has two decades of experience in immigration law,
policy, and administration.  Most recently, she was the Director of DHS
Watch, a project of America’s Voice, where she shined a light on
immigration policies and administration that failed to adhere to basic
principles of good governance, transparency, and accountability.  She is
an adjunct professor of law at American University, Washington College
of Law and counsel at Potomac Law Group, PLLC.  Previously, Jaddou was
the Chief Counsel for U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS)
at the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) from June 2014 to January
2017.  Jaddou’s experience on immigration policy began as counsel to
U.S. House of Representative Zoe Lofgren (2002-2007) and later as Chief
Counsel to the House Immigration Subcommittee chaired by Rep. Lofgren
(2007-2011).  Jaddou has also served as the Deputy Assistant Secretary
for Regional, Global and Functional Affairs in the Bureau of Legislative
Affairs at the U.S. Department of State (2012-2014).  Jaddou is a
daughter of immigrants – a mother from Mexico and a father from Iraq –
born and raised in Chula Vista, California.  She received a bachelor’s
and a master’s degree from Stanford University and a law degree from
UCLA School of Law. 

**<u>Chris Magnus, Nominee for Commissioner of Customs and Border
Protection</u>**

Chris Magnus is currently the police chief in Tucson, Arizona, a diverse
city close to the U.S.-Mexican border.  His lengthy career in public
safety includes coming up through the ranks of the Lansing, Michigan
Police Department, and serving as police chief in the cities of Fargo,
North Dakota, Richmond, California, and Tucson, Arizona.  In each of
these cities Magnus developed a reputation as a progressive police
leader who focused on relationship-building between the police and
community, implementing evidence-based best practices, promoting reform,
and insisting on police accountability.  During his time in Richmond,
Magnus played a key role in rebuilding community trust in law
enforcement and dramatically reducing the number of shootings and
homicides.  In Tucson, Magnus implemented de-escalation training,
sentinel event review processes, and programs to promote officer health
and wellness.  Because of Tucson’s proximity to the border, he has
extensive experience in addressing immigration issues. Magnus grew up in
Lansing, Michigan, the son of an immigrant from Oslo, Norway.  He
received his bachelor’s degree in Criminal Justice and his master’s
degree in Labor Relations from Michigan State University. Magnus
attended the Harvard Kennedy School Senior Executives in State and Local
Government program.  He has been with his husband, Terrance Cheung, for
15 years.

**<u>Jonathan Eugene Meyer, Nominee for General Counsel</u>**

Jonathan Meyer is currently a partner at Sheppard, Mullin, Richter &
Hampton LLP in Washington, DC.  Before entering private practice, he
served as Deputy General Counsel and Senior Counselor at the United
States Department of Homeland Security, where he advised the Secretary,
Deputy Secretary, General Counsel, Chief of Staff, and other senior
leaders of the 240,000-employee agency. Prior to DHS, he served as
Deputy Assistant Attorney General at the Department of Justice, Special
Deputy General Counsel of Amtrak, and Counsel to Senator Joe Biden on
the Senate Judiciary Committee, among other positions. Originally from
Cincinnati, Ohio, Meyer holds degrees from Harvard College, Columbia
University School of Law, and Princeton University’s School of Public
and International Affairs. Meyer is a recipient of the Secretary of
Homeland Security’s Outstanding Service Medal, the U.S. Secret Service
Director’s Honor Award, a Department of Justice Award for Outstanding
and Dedicated Service, and numerous other awards and honors.

**<u>Robert Silvers, Nominee for Under Secretary for Strategy, Policy,
and Plans</u>**

Robert Silvers is a partner at the law firm Paul Hastings LLP and an
experienced leader in national and homeland security. Silvers advises
companies and boards of directors on cybersecurity, critical
infrastructure protection, and other challenges at the intersection of
business and security. Silvers served as the Obama administration’s
Assistant Secretary for Cyber Policy at the U.S. Department of Homeland
Security (DHS).  He was responsible for engagement on cyber defense with
the private sector, the federal government’s response during significant
cyber incidents, and building diplomatic coalitions to confront the most
challenging issues involving security and digital innovation. Silvers
previously served in other positions at DHS, including as Deputy Chief
of Staff, managing execution of policy and operational priorities for
the 240,000 dedicated employees across the Department’s 22 agencies and
offices. Silvers received his J.D. from New York University School of
Law and his B.A. from the University of Pennsylvania, where he graduated
summa cum laude and as valedictorian of the International Relations
program. Following law school, he clerked for Judge Kim McLane Wardlaw
of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. Silvers is an
adjunct professor in the M.S. in Cybersecurity Risk and Strategy Program
co-offered by NYU Law School and the NYU Tandon School of Engineering. A
native of New York City, Silvers lives in Washington, D.C. with his wife
and their eight-year-old son and three-year-old daughter. 

\###
