---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-04-22'
modified_time: 2021-04-27 13:40:52-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/04/22/president-biden-announces-12-key-climate-and-infrastructure-administration-nominations/
published_time: 2021-04-22 18:37:24-04:00
title: "President\_Biden Announces 12 Key Climate and Infrastructure Administration\_\
  Nominations"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, on Earth Day, President Joe Biden announced his
intent to nominate the following individuals to serve and further the
Biden Administration’s commitment to a modern sustainable infrastructure
and clean energy future.

-   Carlos Monje, Nominee for Under Secretary of Transportation for
    Policy, Department of Transportation
-   Amit Bose, Nominee for Administrator of the Federal Railroad
    Administration, Department of Transportation
-   Shalanda Baker, Nominee for Director of the Office of Minority
    Economic Impact, Department of Energy
-   Asmeret Berhe, Nominee for Director of the Office of Science,
    Department of Energy
-   Robert Hampshire, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for Research and
    Technology, Department of Transportation
-   Monica Medina, Nominee for Assistant Secretary, Bureau and Oceans
    and International Environmental and Science Affairs, Department of
    State
-   Bryan Newland, Nominee for Assistant Secretary of Indian Affairs,
    Department of Interior
-   Annie Petsonk, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for Aviation and
    International Affairs, Department of Transportation
-   Frank Rose, Nominee for Principal Deputy Administrator for National
    Nuclear Security, Department of Energy
-   Margaret Schaus, Nominee for Chief Financial Officer, National
    Aeronautics and Space Administration
-   Rick Spinrad, Nominee for Under Secretary for Oceans and Atmosphere
    and Administrator, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration,
    Department of Commerce
-   Tracy Stone-Manning, Nominee for Director of the Bureau of Land
    Management, Department of Interior

**<u>Carlos Monje, Nominee for Under Secretary of Transportation for
Policy, Department of Transportation</u>**

Carlos Monje Jr. serves as a Senior Advisor to Transportation Secretary
Pete Buttigieg. Monje managed the agency review process for domestic
agencies for the Biden-Harris Transition. Monje previously served as
Acting Under Secretary and Assistant Secretary for Transportation Policy
for the U.S. Department of Transportation where he oversaw
implementation of surface transportation programs, the discretionary
grant programs, and efforts to promote equity and economic development.
He was chief of staff of the White House Domestic Policy Council and
Special Assistant to the President during the Obama Administration.
Monje is the first in his family born in the United States. His family
is from Argentina.

**<u>Amit Bose, Nominee for Administrator of the Federal Railroad
Administration, Department of Transportation</u>**

Amitabha Bose has spent nearly two decades in public service working to
build a better, safer, and more sustainable transportation system that
provides opportunity to communities across the United States.  Bose’s
leadership in senior-level roles at the U.S. Department of
Transportation and the Federal Railroad Administration (FRA) under two
secretaries led to the passage of the FAST Act and MAP-21.  Currently,
he serves as the Deputy Administrator of the FRA, returning to the
agency where he was the Deputy Administrator, Chief Counsel, and Senior
Adviser.  During those years, he guided the agency through the
implementation of Positive Train Control, implementation and oversight
of the $10 billion intercity passenger rail program, and alcohol and
drug testing.  Throughout the Obama-Biden Administration, Bose also held
positions in the Transportation Secretary’s office as Associate General
Counsel and Deputy Assistant Secretary for Governmental Affairs.  Before
joining DOT, Bose worked for New Jersey Transit, New Jersey Department
of Transportation, and U.S. Congress as a transportation staffer.  He
has been involved in some of the highest profile rail and transportation
projects, including: the Northeast Corridor Gateway Program, California
High- Speed Rail, Acela 2021 trainsets, and Liberty Corridor. 

In addition to his decades in the public sector, he previously worked at
HNTB, an infrastructure solutions firm, and advanced transportation and
safety projects.  He served as board chair of the Coalition for the
Northeast Corridor and on the New Jersey Restart and Recovery Advisory
Council.  After arriving in the United StateS at age 5, Bose grew up in
DeKalb County, Georgia.  He has an AB from Columbia College, a MIA from
Columbia University’s School of International and Public Affairs, and a
JD from the University of Georgia.  He resides with his family in
Arlington, VA.

**<u>Shalanda Baker, Nominee for Director of the Office of Minority
Economic Impact, Department of Energy</u>**

Shalanda H. Baker is the Deputy Director for Energy Justice in the
Office of Economic Impact and Diversity at the U.S. Department of
Energy. Prior to her appointment, she was a Professor of Law, Public
Policy and Urban Affairs at Northeastern University. She has spent over
a decade conducting research on the equity dimensions of the global
transition away from fossil fuel energy to cleaner energy resources. She
is the author of over a dozen articles, book chapters, and essays on
renewable energy law, energy justice, energy policy, and renewable
energy development. In 2016, she received a Fulbright-Garcia-Robles
research fellowship to study climate change, energy policy, and
indigenous rights in Mexico. She is the Co-Founder and former
Co-Director of the Initiative for Energy Justice (www.iejusa.org), an
organization committed to providing technical law and policy support to
communities on the frontlines of climate change. Her book, Revolutionary
Power: An Activist’s Guide to the Energy Transition (Island Press 2021),
argues that the technical terrain of energy policy should be the next
domain to advance civil rights. She received her BS from the United
States Air Force Academy and JD from Northeastern University School of
Law. She obtained her LLM while serving as a William H. Hastie Fellow at
the University of Wisconsin School of Law.

**<u>Asmeret Berhe, Nominee for Director of the Office of Science,
Department of Energy</u>**

Asmeret Asefaw Berhe is a Professor of Soil Biogeochemistry; the Ted and
Jan Falasco Chair in Earth Sciences and Geology; and Interim Associate
Dean for Graduate Education at the University of California, Merced. Her
research is at the intersection of soil science, global change science,
and political ecology with an emphasis on how the soil system regulates
the earth’s climate and the dynamic two-way relationship between the
natural environment and human communities. She previously served as the
Chair of the US National Committee on Soil Science at the National
Academies; was a Leadership board member for the Earth Science Women’s
Network; and is currently a co-principal investigator in the ADVANCEGeo
Partnership – a National Science Foundation funded effort to empower
(geo)scientists to respond to and prevent harassment, discrimination,
bullying and other exclusionary behaviors in research environments. Her
scholarship on how physical processes such as erosion, fire, and changes
in climate affect the biogeochemical cycling of essential elements in
the earth system and her efforts to ensure equity and inclusion of
people from all walks of life in the scientific enterprise have received
numerous awards and honors. She is a Fellow of the American Geophysical
Union and the Geological Society of America, and a member of the
inaugural class of the US National Academies New Voices in Science,
Engineering, and Medicine.

Berhe was born and raised in Asmara, Eritrea. She received a B.Sc. in
Soil and Water Conservation from the University of Asmara, an M.Sc. in
Political Ecology from Michigan State University, and a Ph.D. in
Biogeochemistry from the University of California, Berkeley. In 2020 she
was named a Great Immigrant, Great American by the Carnegie Corporation
of New York.

**<u>Robert Hampshire, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for Research and
Technology, Department of Transportation</u>**

Robert Hampshire serves as the Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary for
Research and Technology Policy. Hampshire was previously an associate
professor at the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy at the
University of Michigan. He was also a research associate professor in
both the U-M Transportation Research Institute (UMTRI) and Michigan
Institute for Data Science (MIDAS), and an affiliated faculty member in
the Department of Industrial and Operations Engineering (IOE).

His unique blend of engineering systems research with public policy has
made him a leader in not only transportation research, but also on the
disparate impact of policy decisions in transportation systems. This has
led to important strides in our understanding of transportation equity.
His research applies operations research, data science, and systems
approaches to analyze novel transportation systems such as smart
parking, connected vehicles, autonomous vehicles, ride-hailing, bike
sharing, car sharing, as well as, pedestrian and bicyclist safety. His
research focuses on environmental impacts, equity, and access to
opportunities. His work has been cited widely, and covered by major
press outlets. He has worked extensively with both public and private
sector partners worldwide. He has also been a faculty member at Carnegie
Mellon University and a visiting professor at Massachusetts Institute of
Technology. Hampshire received a PhD in operations research and
financial engineering from Princeton University.

**<u>Monica Medina, Nominee for Assistant Secretary, Bureau and Oceans
and International Environmental and Science Affairs, Department of
State</u>**

Monica P. Medina is an adjunct professor at Georgetown University’s
School of Foreign Service, and a Senior Associate on the Stephenson
Ocean Security Project at the Center for Strategic and International
Studies.  She is the CEO and Co-Founder of Our Daily Planet, an
e-newsletter on conservation and the environment.  A former Principal
Deputy Under Secretary of Commerce for Oceans and Atmosphere, she also
served as General Counsel of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric
Administration (NOAA), and Special Assistant to the Secretary of
Defense.  Earlier in her career, Medina served as the Senior Counsel to
former Senator Max Baucus on the Senate Environment and Public Works
Committee, as the Senior Director for Ocean Policy at the National
Geographic Society, and in senior roles in other environmental
organizations.  She is a member of the Board of Directors of the
nonprofits SkyTruth and the Service Women’s Action Network (SWAN) and is
a member of the Council on Foreign Relations.  She received the
Department of Defense Medal for Distinguished Public Service and the
Army Meritorious Service Medal.  She attended college on an Army
R.O.T.C. scholarship, and began her career on active duty in the Army
General Counsel’s Office, after being selected for its Honors Program. 
Medina has a Bachelor’s degree from Georgetown University and a J.D.
from Columbia Law School. 

**<u>Bryan Newland, Nominee for Assistant Secretary of Indian Affairs,
Department of Interior</u>**

Bryan Newland is a citizen of Bay Mills Indian Community (Ojibwe), and
was born and raised on the Bay Mills Reservation on the southern shore
of Lake Superior.  He recently completed his tenure as the elected
President of Bay Mills Indian Community, where he previously served as
Chief Judge of the Bay Mills Indian Community Tribal Court.  From 2009
to 2012, Newland served as a Counselor and Policy Advisor to the
Assistant Secretary of the Interior – Indian Affairs under President
Obama.

Newland is a graduate of the Michigan State University College of Law,
with a certificate from the Indigenous Law and Policy Center.  He also
received his undergraduate degree from Michigan State University.  He is
married to Erica Newland, and they have two children – Graydon and
Meredith.

**<u>Annie Petsonk, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for Aviation and
International Affairs, Department of Transportation</u>**

Carol A. (“Annie”) Petsonk is Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary for
Aviation and International Affairs at the United States Department of
Transportation.  She has over three decades of experience in
international negotiations, including bilateral, regional, and
multilateral negotiations on aviation, trade, and the environment. She
is an internationally recognized expert in these fields, has attended
Assemblies of the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) since
2013, and served from 2014 to 2021 as an expert observer on ICAO’s
Committee on Aviation Environmental Protection. She helped develop
ICAO’s landmark Carbon Offsetting and Reduction Scheme for International
Aviation (CORSIA), a global program supported by the U.S. aviation
industry. She also assisted in drafting standards to implement CORSIA,
and developed policy recommendations to advance sustainable aviation
fuels. She has testified in the U.S. Senate and the U.S. House of
Representatives, and authored and co-authored more than seventy
articles, book chapters, presentations, blogs, and other materials.

During her previous federal government service in the U.S. Department of
Justice and the Office of the U.S. Trade Representative, Petsonk
represented the United States in cases of strategic significance to the
Executive Branch, organized the international work of DOJ’s Environment
and Natural Resources Division, and participated in interagency
development of international policy, including trade and environmental
policy.  At the United Nations Environment Programme (Nairobi), she was
involved in the development of one of the world’s most successful
environmental agreements, the 1987 Montreal Protocol on the Ozone
Layer.  She served for twenty-five years as international counsel at the
non-partisan, non-profit Environmental Defense Fund (EDF).  She has
worked in the private sector, and she has taught for over two decades as
a member of the adjunct faculty of the George Washington University Law
School.  She is a member of the bars of Massachusetts and Colorado. 
Petsonk is a graduate of Harvard Law School and of The Colorado College,
which also awarded her an honorary degree.  She is married to John
Watts.  They have one son, Nicholas. 

**<u>Frank Rose, Nominee for Principal Deputy Administrator for National
Nuclear Security, Department of Energy</u>**

Frank A. Rose is a senior fellow and co-director of the Center for
Security, Strategy, and Technology in the Foreign Policy program at the
Brookings Institution.  Prior to joining Brookings, Rose served as U.S.
assistant secretary of state for arms control, verification, and
compliance from 2014-17. From 2009-14, Rose served as the U.S. deputy
assistant secretary of state for space and defense policy. He has also
held positions at the U.S. Department of Defense, in the U.S. Congress,
and the private sector. Rose received his bachelor’s degree in history
from American University in 1994 and a master’s degree in war studies
from King’s College, University of London in 1999.

**<u>Margaret Schaus, Nominee for Chief Financial Officer, National
Aeuronatics and Space Administration</u>**

Margaret Vo Schaus is a career member of the Senior Executive Service.
Over the past decade, she has held numerous leadership roles with
responsibility for the financial management and business operations of
science and engineering organizations at the Departments of Energy and
Defense. She currently serves as the Director for Business Operations in
the Office of the Under Secretary Research and Engineering at the
Department of Defense, where she is responsible for oversight of a
multibillion dollar budget. Schaus has been recognized with awards
including the Office of the Secretary of Defense’s Exceptional Civilian
Service Award, the Department of Energy’s Distinguished Career Service
Award, and the Secretary of Energy’s Honor Award.  She is a
first-generation Vietnamese American, born in Michigan and raised in
southern California. She received a B.A. in Science, Technology, and
Society as well as English from Stanford University, and a M.S. in
Management Science and Engineering from Stanford University.

**<u>Rick Spinrad, Nominee for Under Secretary for Oceans and Atmosphere
and Administrator, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration,
Department of Commerce</u>**

Dr. Rick Spinrad is a Professor of Oceanography at Oregon State
University (OSU), and a member of the Ocean Studies Board of the
National Academies.  In 2016 he retired as Chief Scientist of NOAA,
appointed by President Obama. He was the VP for Research at OSU, and was
the head of NOAA’s Research Office and the National Ocean Service. He
co-led the White House Committee developing the nation’s first set of
ocean research priorities. Dr. Spinrad was a Senior Executive with the
US Navy, and was awarded the Distinguished Civilian Service Award
(highest Navy civilian award), has held faculty appointments at three
universities, and was President of Sea Tech, Inc. He also created the
National Ocean Sciences Bowl, and was the U.S. representative to the
United Nations’ Intergovernmental Oceanographic Commission.

Spinrad received Presidential Rank Awards from Presidents Bush and
Obama, and is a Fellow of 4 professional societies. He holds degrees
from The Johns Hopkins University and OSU.

**<u>Tracy Stone-Manning, Nominee for Director of the Bureau of Land
Management, Department of Interior</u>**

Tracy Stone-Manning has spent her career devoted to public service and
conservation. As senior advisor for conservation policy at the National
Wildlife Federation, she advocates for the wise stewardship of our
nation’s lands and waters.  Before joining the Federation, she served as
Montana Governor Bullock’s chief of staff, where she oversaw day-to-day
operations of his cabinet and the state’s 11,000 employees. She stepped
into that post after serving as the Director of the state’s Department
of Environmental Quality, overseeing the state’s water, air, mining and
remediation programs.  She served as a regional director and senior
advisor to Senator Jon Tester during his first term, focusing on
forestry issues. Early in her career, she led the Clark Fork Coalition,
a regional conservation group, as it advocated successfully for
Superfund cleanups that created thousands of jobs and revitalized a
river. The group also co-owned and managed a cattle ranch in the heart
of the Superfund site. 

Raised in a big, Navy family — her dad commanded a submarine – she was
guided into public service from childhood. She is a backpacker, hunter
and singer, and has been married to the writer Richard Manning for 30
years. She lives in Missoula, Montana and holds a M.S. in Environmental
Studies from the University of Montana and an B.A. from the University
of Maryland.

\###
