---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-04-15'
modified_time: 2021-04-14 21:18:40-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/04/15/fact-sheet-the-american-jobs-plan-supports-veterans/
published_time: 2021-04-15 16:30:00-04:00
title: "FACT SHEET: The American Jobs Plan Supports\_Veterans"
---
 
President Biden believes that as Americans, we have a sacred obligation
to care for our nations’ veterans and their families – both while they
are deployed and after they return home. The American Jobs Plan will
help meet this obligation by creating millions of good jobs for veterans
and their spouses, growing opportunities for small veteran-owned
businesses, and helping ensure the delivery of world-class,
state-of-the-art health care through the Department of Veterans Affairs.

The American Jobs Plan addresses the consequences of disinvestment in
American infrastructure, while also addressing long-standing racial
injustice and confronting the climate crisis and the ambitions of an
autocratic China. Like all Americans, veterans and their families will
benefit from the historic investments in our transportation
infrastructure, electric grid, drinking water systems, broadband access,
and our care economy. The plan will make our cities and towns stronger,
but also target investments in rural communities where roughly one
quarter of our nation’s veterans and their families live.

Specifically, President Biden’s American Jobs Plan will: 

**Modernize Veterans Affairs (VA) facilities to deliver 21st century
care **

More than 9 million veterans are enrolled in VA’s health care system,
and as a result of their military service, many face significant health
care needs. To meet these needs, VA operates the largest integrated
health care system in the nation, with more than 1,700 hospitals,
clinics and other health care facilities. The median age of U.S. private
sector hospitals is 11 years; however, the median age of VA’s portfolio
is 58 years, with 69% of VA hospitals over the age of 50. The age and
condition of VA facilities demand that we do better by our nation’s
veterans. That is why the American Jobs Plan includes $18 billion to
modernize VA health care facilities. These investments will pay
long-term dividends by offsetting growing costs of older facilities
while meeting the health care needs of the veterans of yesterday’s wars,
the veterans of today’s wars, and the veterans of the future.
Specifically, President Biden’s American Jobs Plan will:  

-   President Biden has called for $3 billion to address immediate
    infrastructure needs within VA health care facilities, such as
    upgrades to support the growing number of women veterans,
    improvements to utility and building systems for more energy
    efficient operations, and enhancements to facility access to
    accommodate aging veterans. This funding will also accelerate
    ongoing major construction projects to provide access to high
    quality health care more quickly. 

<!-- -->

-   President Biden has requested $15 billion to replace outdated
    medical centers with state-of-the-art facilities to provide our
    veterans the care they deserve. These funds will help replace aging
    facilities, incorporate a person-centered approach, and adopt best
    practices from across the U.S. healthcare system. This funding will
    support replacement of approximately 10-15 of the highest priority
    facilities.  

**Create Quality Jobs for Veterans and their Spouses**

Roughly 200,000 service members transition from military service each
year, the majority of whom will enter the civilian labor force. Many
veterans have experienced unemployment and other economic challenges due
to the pandemic. President Biden believes all veterans and their spouses
deserve civilian lives of opportunity with education and jobs worthy of
their skills and talents. As the veteran population grows increasingly
diverse to include more women and veterans of color, addressing systemic
racism and gender inequality will be particularly important. President
Biden’s American Jobs Plan will:  

-   **Protect the health, safety, and rights of workers**. President
    Biden is calling on Congress to provide the federal government with
    the tools it needs to ensure employers are providing workers with
    good jobs – including jobs with fair and equal pay, safe and healthy
    workplaces, and workplaces free from racial, gender, and other forms
    of discrimination and harassment. In addition to a $10 billion
    investment in enforcement as part of the plan’s workforce proposals,
    the President is calling for increased penalties when employers
    violate workplace safety and health rules.

<!-- -->

-   **Target workforce development opportunities in underserved
    communities.** All of the investments in workforce training in
    President Biden’s plan will prioritize underserved communities and
    communities that have struggled in a transforming economy.
    Specifically, the American Jobs Plan will ensure that new jobs
    created in clean energy, manufacturing, and infrastructure are
    readily accessible to women and people of color. This includes
    training programs like registered apprenticeships and
    pre-apprenticeships, which will strengthen the pipeline for
    underserved groups to access these opportunities.

**Expand Opportunities for SMALL Veteran-Owned Businesses**

Veterans are 45% more likely to be self-employed than non-veterans. The
American Jobs Plan includes historic investments to empower all small
businesses, including the more than 2.5 million veteran-owned small
businesses. President Biden’s American Jobs Plan will:

-   **Expand small businesses in underserved communities.** The American
    Jobs Plan will create a national network of federally-funded small
    business incubators and innovation hubs to ensure that all
    Americans, regardless of race or wealth, have a fair shot at
    starting and growing their own business.

<!-- -->

-   **Increase engagement in the innovation economy.** President Biden
    is calling on Congress to invest $5 billion in federal programs that
    empower small firms to participate in federal research and research
    and development that has the potential for commercialization.

<!-- -->

-   **Create a new financing facility for small manufacturers.**
    President Biden is calling on Congress to seed a new financing
    program to co-invest with private capital in the industrial sector.

*To view this fact sheet in your browser,
click [here](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/04/AJP-Veterans-Fact-Sheet-1.pdf).*

\###
