---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-04-15'
modified_time: 2021-04-15 20:58:43-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/04/15/statement-from-president-joe-biden-on-house-passage-of-the-paycheck-fairness-act/
published_time: 2021-04-15 20:58:42-04:00
title: "Statement from President Joe\_Biden on House Passage of the Paycheck Fairness\_\
  Act"
---
 
I applaud the House of Representatives for passing the Paycheck Fairness
Act.  
   
Closing the gender pay gap is more than just an economic imperative —
it’s a moral imperative as well. Twelve years ago, when President Obama
and I came into office, the very first law that we enacted was the Lilly
Ledbetter Fair Pay Act. It was, and is, an important tool for helping
women seek justice for pay discrimination — but we are still a long way
from achieving pay equity in America. In nearly every job — more than 90
percent of occupations — women are still earning less than men. For
every dollar the typical man who works full-time full-year earns in
America, a woman earns 82 cents. For AAPI women, it’s 87 cents for every
dollar a white man earns. For Black women, it’s 63 cents. For Native
American women, it’s 60 cents. And for Hispanic women, it’s 55 cents.
Those gaps are an affront to our values as a nation — they are
unacceptable to me, and they should be unacceptable to every single
American.  
   
The Paycheck Fairness Act addresses wage gaps by closing loopholes that
have allowed employers to justify gender pay disparities, strengthening
provisions for holding employers accountable for systemic pay
discrimination, and helping level the playing field for women and people
of color by making it easier for workers to challenge pay disparities as
a group. It bans the use of salary history in hiring and setting wages —
a practice that only perpetuates disparities. And it promotes pay
transparency by requiring employers to report pay data and protecting
workers from retaliation for discussing their wages with co-workers —
critical barriers to equality, given that pay disparities often persist
because workers are kept in the dark about the fact that they aren’t
being paid fairly.  
   
Equal pay is about justice, fairness, and who we are as a nation — it
makes all of us stronger, and it represents what America is truly about.
Passing the Paycheck Fairness Act is an essential step, but we still
have a lot more work to do to ensure that our daughters have all of the
same rights and opportunities as our sons. I urge the Senate to act
swiftly to pass the Paycheck Fairness Act and help us build an economy
that rewards the hard work of every American.

\###
