---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-04-23'
modified_time: 2021-04-22 21:43:05-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/04/23/fact-sheet-biden-administration-outlines-key-resources-to-invest-in-coal-and-power-plant-community-economic-revitalization/
published_time: 2021-04-23 07:00:00-04:00
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden Administration Outlines Key Resources to Invest in Coal\
  \ and Power Plant Community Economic\_Revitalization"
---
 
*White House Releases Initial Report Detailing Existing Resources for
Energy Communities*

*Department of Energy Announces $109.5 Million to Support Energy Jobs,
Executive Director to Spearhead Interagency Efforts*

Today, the [White House Interagency Working Group on Coal and Power
Plant Communities and Economic
Revitalization](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/02/26/readout-of-the-white-houses-first-interagency-working-group-on-coal-and-power-plant-communities-and-economic-revitalization/)
released a [report](https://netl.doe.gov/IWGInitialReport) that was
delivered to President Biden and included the initial recommendations
from the Interagency Working Group  to catalyze economic revitalization,
create good-paying, union jobs, and support workers in energy
communities – hard-hit coal, oil and gas, and power plant communities –
across the country.

The Interagency Working Group identified nearly $38 billion in existing
federal funding that could be accessed by energy communities for
infrastructure, environmental remediation, union job creation, and
community revitalization efforts. This funding includes the [over $260
million in existing resources already mobilized by the Department of the
Interior](https://www.doi.gov/pressreleases/interior-investing-over-260-million-help-create-jobs-and-revitalize-land-coal)
to support abandoned mine land reclamation, predominantly in Appalachia.
This funding will be bolstered by the historic investment in energy
communities proposed by President Biden’s [American Jobs
Plan](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/03/31/fact-sheet-the-american-jobs-plan/#:~:text=The%20American%20Jobs%20Plan%20is%20an%20investment%20in,by%20more%20than%2040%20percent%20since%20the%201960s.). 

The report is a first step, delivered to the President 60 days following
Executive Order 14008, which established the Interagency Working Group.
In addition to identifying resources available for immediate deployment,
the report identifies urgent geographic areas, hard-hit by past coal
mine and plant closures and vulnerable to more closures, that are
priorities for investment and engagement and next steps for the Working
Group to deliver on the President’s long-term commitment to support
energy workers and communities.

In connection with the report release, the Department of Energy (DOE)
announced $109.5 million in funding for innovative projects that will
catalyze next generation industries to retain and create jobs directly
in energy communities, including

-   **$75 million in funding to engineer carbon capture projects** –
    This funding will support customized engineering designs to install
    carbon capture and storage technology for power and industrial
    plants. Retrofitting with carbon capture technology could employ a
    similar workforce that exists today in energy communities and
    position American industry to compete in a global economy that is
    rapidly turning toward decarbonization.
-   **$19.5 million in funding awards for critical mineral extraction
    from coal and associated waste streams** – Critical minerals are
    vital to the manufacture of batteries, magnets, and other important
    components for making electric vehicles (EV) and other clean energy
    technology. Coal communities and workers could be well-positioned to
    see new industrial jobs extracting critical materials from the waste
    left behind by coal mining and coal power plants in many areas.
-   **$15 million for geothermal energy research projects at West
    Virginia University and Sandia National Laboratories** – DOE will
    provide up to $15 million for two projects to help drive down costs
    and risks associated with the discovery of new geothermal resources
    for power production and heating-cooling. West Virginia University
    (WVU) will use the funding to explore year-round deep-direct use
    heating and cooling on campus in preparation for the 2027 planned
    closure of the existing coal-fired cogeneration plant that supplies
    steam for the school. WVU will drill an exploratory well with a full
    logging and coring program critical to developing the resource under
    the campus and will evaluate shallow reservoirs for energy storage,
    away from fossil fuels and transitioning to a fully clean grid
    by 2035. Sandia National Laboratories will use innovative approaches
    to conduct electromagnetic surveys to refine geothermal exploration
    methods and aid drillers as they explore for geothermal energy in
    the Western United States, a potential opportunity to create jobs
    for laid-off oil and gas workers. 

The Interagency Working Group also named Brian Anderson as its Executive
Director. A longtime resident of West Virginia and a descendant of coal
miners, Anderson serves as director of DOE’s National Energy Technology
Laboratory with facilities in Morgantown, West Virginia, Pittsburgh,
Pennsylvania, and Albany, Oregon, and is a renowned scientist with
extensive expertise in technology development for carbon management in
hard-to-decarbonize sectors. In addition, DOE identified senior staff
from DOE’s Office of Economic Impact and Diversity, Office of Energy
Jobs and Office of Indian Energy who will also support the work of the
Interagency Working Group. 

President Biden is committed to robust federal leadership in direct
partnership with energy communities to foster investment and economic
revitalization, ensure the creation of good-paying jobs that provide a
choice to join a union, remediate mining and drilling lands and plant
sites to address environmental degradation, and secure the benefits
workers have earned.  
  
During his first week in office, President Biden established the
Interagency Working Group to coordinate an integrated,
whole-of-government approach to supporting energy communities. As its
first action, the Interagency Working Group convened stakeholder
roundtable sessions to hear from community and worker representatives as
well as sector experts on the needs and most promising strategies for
economic development and transition. The Working Group also identified
existing federal resources that can be immediately deployed to support
hard-hit energy communities.  
  
Today, the Interagency Working Group, issued an [initial
report](https://netl.doe.gov/IWGInitialReport) identifying key federal
programs that could spur economic revitalization in energy communities.

**<u>EXISTING FEDERAL RESOURCES AVAILABLE FOR IMMEDIATE DEPLOYMENT TO
ENERGY COMMUNITIES:</u>**  
As a first task, the Interagency Working Group on Coal and Power Plant
Communities and Economic Revitalization identified existing federal
resources that can be immediately deployed to support hard-hit energy
communities. When deployed in key energy communities, these funds
will:  
  
**<u>Invest in Job Creating Infrastructure Projects</u>**  

-   **Fund Critical Infrastructure Investments in Coal Country** – On
    April 7, 2021, the [Department of Commerce’s Economic Development
    Administration (EDA) announced a $2.5 million grant to the Pea Ridge
    Public Service District of Barboursville, West
    Virginia](https://www.eda.gov/news/press-releases/2021/04/07/barboursville-wv.htm),
    that according to grantee estimates is expected to retain 851 jobs
    and generate $14.6 million in private investment by extending public
    sanitary sewer services to support local businesses and encourage
    future economic growth. These funds were provided under EDA’s
    Assistance to Coal Communities (ACC) initiative which provides
    grants to coal communities for a range of activities including
    economic diversification, job creation, capital investment,
    workforce development, and re-employment opportunities. In FY21, EDA
    received $33.5 million under the ACC initiative which has ongoing
    availability, with applications reviewed on a rolling basis. The
    Department of Commerce is also revising EDA investment priorities to
    promote projects that meet the needs of coal and power plant
    communities. The updated guidance will apply to all EDA funding,
    including the $3 billion received through the American Rescue Plan.
-   **Provide Access to Rural Broadband** – The Department of Commerce’s
    National Telecommunications and Information Administration (NTIA)
    has three broadband grant programs with funding totaling $1.5
    billion. These programs collectively focus on bringing broadband
    access to tribal communities, minority communities, and those
    regions that have households without access to broadband at speeds
    of at least 25 megabytes per second (MBps) for download and 3 MBps
    for upload. Energy Communities with broadband needs will be eligible
    to apply for deployment grants from these programs. The NTIA is
    exploring how to facilitate increased participation from Energy
    communities through targeted outreach.
-   **Fund Transportation Infrastructure –** The Department of
    Transportation releases the Rebuilding American Infrastructure with
    Sustainability and Equity (RAISE) grant program solicitation
    annually. RAISE is an approximately $1 billion competitive grant
    program that provides flexible capital funding that can support
    multi-modal and multi-jurisdictional projects. Applicants can
    include municipalities, counties, tribal governments, and states.
    For the upcoming RAISE Notice of Funding Opportunity for FY2021, DOT
    is determining how to integrate the transportation needs of
    applicants like Energy Communities that are focusing on job creation
    and climate change response.

**<u>Create Jobs through Pollution Mitigation and Environmental
Remediation</u>**  

-   **Provide access to $1.3 billion in grants, loans and technical
    assistance  to address Mine-Impacted Water –** The U.S. Department
    of Agriculture’s Rural Utilities Service Water and Environmental
    Programs (WEP) is a program that provides financing for rural
    communities to establish, expand, or modernize water treatment and
    waste disposal facilities. Energy Communities can utilize WEP to
    address issues related to mine runoff or mine-impacted water.
    Recently, a rural Michigan town received WEP funding to treat a
    water source that was contaminated with high levels of magnesium and
    iron due to mining. WEP currently has $967 million available for
    loans, $308 million in grant funds, and $36 million in technical
    assistance and training funds.
-   **Revitalize Brownfields –**  The Environmental Protection Agency
    anticipates releasing the guidelines for its Brownfields Assessment,
    Cleanup, and Revolving Loan Fund Grant programs in Fall 2021.
    Brownfields grants are competitively awarded and provide funding to
    empower states, communities, tribes, and non-profit organizations to
    inventory, assess, and clean up brownfields. Brownfield grants
    facilitate environmental cleanup and economic redevelopment in
    communities across the country. Success stories include projects in
    communities adversely affected by closed or abandoned power stations
    and mining sites. The competition for FY2022 assessment, clean up,
    and revolving loan fund grants will open in fall 2021 .
-   **Create Good Jobs by Reclaiming Abandoned Mine Lands** – Last
    month, the [Department of Interior’s Office of Surface Mining,
    Reclamation, and Enforcement (OSMRE) announced the availability of
    $152.2 million in annual reclamation
    grants](https://www.doi.gov/pressreleases/interior-investing-over-260-million-help-create-jobs-and-revitalize-land-coal)
    and began disbursing $115 million to eligible states and tribes for
    coal mine reclamation projects that support economic revitalization
    efforts through the Abandoned Mine Land Economic Revitalization
    grant program. These projects directly address the economic
    development needs of Energy Communities. OSMRE also has an
    additional $24.8 million available in FY2021 to provide
    administrative and technical support for coal reclamation projects
    in certain states and tribal areas. DOI also highlighted $4.2M of
    funding at the Bureau of Land Management (BLM) to remediate orphan
    wells on public lands. This funding is estimated to address 39 of
    the 102 orphan wells in BLM’s most recent orphan well inventory,
    with another $8.7 million to remediate wells in Alaska’s National
    Petroleum Reserve. Dislocated oil and gas workers living in energy
    communities would be ideal candidates for employment on these
    projects.

**<u>Catalyze Next Generation Industries</u>**  

-   **Provide $8.5 billion in loans for breakthrough carbon capture
    technologies** – DOE’s Loan Programs Office (LPO) has $8.5 billion
    in funding for carbon capture projects through LPO’s Title 17
    Innovative Energy Loan Guarantee Program. LPO is open for business
    and ready to help deploy carbon capture technology to enable
    low-carbon manufacturing of cement, steel, and other industrial
    products in addition to power plants. Retrofitting with carbon
    capture technology would draw upon a similar workforce that exists
    today in energy communities and could create thousands of new jobs
    while positioning American industry to compete in a global economy
    that is rapidly turning toward decarbonization.

**<u>Fund Civic Infrastructure that Sparks New Economic Activity</u>**  

-   **Fund Small Businesses** – The American Rescue Plan provided $10
    billion to the Department of Treasury’s State Small Business Credit
    Initiative (SSBCI), a program that supports state, territorial, and
    tribal programs that finance small businesses, including in
    economically disadvantaged and minority communities. The Department
    of Treasury is exploring ways to encourage the use of SSBCI funding
    in Energy Communities including by highlighting the objectives of
    Executive Order 14008 in related program guidance and outreach.
-   **Fund Non-Profit Job Creators** – The Department of Health and
    Human Services announced its intent to prioritize energy communities
    in its upcoming solicitation for the Community Economic Development
    (CED) discretionary grants program. The CED is a $13.6 million grant
    program for non-profit community development corporations in
    disinvested communities for purposes of creating new jobs for
    low-income individuals, including Temporary Assistance for Needy
    Families recipients. HHS will provide additional consideration under
    the solicitation to applications that demonstrate that the project
    will support energy communities.
-   **Invest in Economic Revitalization in Appalachia** – The
    Appalachian Regional Commission announced the next round of funding
    availability for its Partnership for Opportunity and Workforce and
    Economic Revitalization (POWER) Initiative grants. The program
    supports Appalachian communities that have experienced job losses in
    coal mining, coal-fired power plant closures, and coal-related
    supply chain and logistics industries. Applicants to this
    competitive program should have a transformational vision for
    diversifying the regional economy, addressing both short-term
    response and long-term restructuring. Applications should also be
    regional, collaborative, large-scale, and outcome-driven. Priorities
    for funding include workforce development, entrepreneurship,
    industry clusters, substance use disorders, and broadband
    access. Current funding availability is $55 million.   

**<u>Secure Benefits and Opportunity for Energy Workers</u>**  

-   **Finance Economic Development Aligned Workforce Training** –The
    Department of Labor [announced the next round of Workforce
    Opportunity for Rural Communities (WORC) demonstration grants, which
    makes up to $29.2 million available to support rural communities in
    aligning workforce development efforts with economic development
    plans](https://www.dol.gov/newsroom/releases/eta/eta20210422-0).
    Grant activities can include classroom training; work-based
    learning, including apprenticeships; skills and needs assessments;
    job matching assistance; online and technology-related learning
    strategies, including expanding broadband access; supportive
    services; employer services; and supporting individuals impacted by
    substance use disorder. The [funding notice](http://www.grants.gov)
    includes an additional emphasis on Energy Communities and will be
    administered in partnership with the Appalachian Regional Commission
    (ARC) and the Delta Regional Authority (DRA).

**<u>AMERICAN JOBS PLAN INVESTMENTS IN ENERGY COMMUNITIES  
</u>**  
President Biden’s [American Jobs
Plan](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/03/31/fact-sheet-the-american-jobs-plan/#:~:text=The%20American%20Jobs%20Plan%20is%20an%20investment%20in,by%20more%20than%2040%20percent%20since%20the%201960s.)
will provide a historic investment in the economic revitalization of
energy communities. Specifically, the plan will:  
  
**<u>Invest in Job Creating Infrastructure Projects</u>**  
  
**Increase investment by $115 billion to modernize the bridges,
highways, roads, and main streets that are in most critical need of
repair.** This includes funding to improve air quality, limit greenhouse
gas emissions, and reduce congestion. The plan will modernize 20,000
miles of highways, roads, and main streets, not only “fixing them first”
but “fixing them right,” with safety, resilience, and all users in mind.
It will also repair the worst 10,000 smaller bridges, including bridges
that provide critical connections to rural and tribal communities.  
  
**Upgrade and modernize America’s drinking water, wastewater, and
stormwater systems, tackle new contaminants, and support clean water
infrastructure across rural America** – including by providing $56
billion in grants and low-cost flexible loans to states, Tribes,
territories, and disadvantaged communities across the country. President
Biden’s plan also provides $10 billion in funding to monitor and
remediate PFAS (per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances) in drinking water
and to invest in rural small water systems and household well and
wastewater systems, including drainage fields. Further, President
Biden’s plan will invest $45 billion to replace 100 percent of the
nation’s lead pipes and service lines, which will create jobs and reduce
lead exposure in homes and 400,000 schools and childcare facilities.  
  
**Produce, preserve, and retrofit more than a million affordable,
resilient, accessible, energy efficient, and electrified housing
units.** Through targeted tax credits, formula funding, grants, and
project-based rental assistance, President Biden’s plan will extend
affordable housing rental opportunities to underserved communities
nationwide, including rural and tribal areas.  
  
**Put union building trade workers to work upgrading homes and
businesses to save families money.** President Biden’s plan will upgrade
homes through block grant programs, the Weatherization Assistance
Program, and by extending and expanding home and commercial efficiency
tax credits. President Biden’s plan also will establish a $27 billion
Clean Energy and Sustainability Accelerator to mobilize private
investment into distributed energy resources; retrofits of residential,
commercial and municipal buildings; and clean transportation. These
investments have a particular focus on disadvantaged communities that
have not yet benefited from clean energy investments.  
  
**Deliver affordable, reliable, high-speed broadband to every American
through a historic investment of $100 billion to build high-speed
broadband infrastructure to reach 100 percent coverage**. The
President’s plan prioritizes building “future proof” broadband
infrastructure in unserved and underserved areas so that we finally
reach 100 percent high-speed broadband coverage. It also prioritizes
support for broadband networks owned, operated by, or affiliated with
local governments, non-profits, and co-operatives—providers with less
pressure to turn profits and with a commitment to serving entire
communities. Moreover, it ensures funds are set aside for infrastructure
on tribal lands and that tribal nations are consulted in program
administration. Along the way, it will create good-paying jobs with
labor protections and the right to organize and bargain collectively.
President Biden’s plan will promote price transparency and competition
among internet providers and the President is committed to working with
Congress to find a solution to reduce internet prices for all Americans,
increase adoption in both rural and urban areas, hold providers
accountable, and save taxpayer money.  
  
**<u>Create Jobs through Pollution Mitigation and Environmental
Remediation</u>**  
  
**Put the energy industry to work plugging orphan oil and gas wells and
cleaning up abandoned mines.** Hundreds of thousands of former orphan
oil and gas wells and abandoned mines pose serious safety hazards, while
also causing ongoing air, water, and other environmental damage. Many of
these old wells and mines are located in rural communities that have
suffered from years of disinvestment. President Biden’s plan includes an
immediate up-front investment of $16 billion that will put hundreds of
thousands to work in union jobs plugging oil and gas wells and restoring
and reclaiming abandoned coal, hardrock, and uranium mines. In addition
to creating good jobs in hard-hit communities, this investment will
reduce the methane and brine that leaks from these wells, just as we
invest in reducing leaks from other sources like aging pipes and
distribution systems.  
  
**Invest $5 billion in the remediation and redevelopment of Brownfield
and Superfund sites**, as well as related economic and workforce
development – turning this idle real property into new hubs of economic
growth and job creation.  
  
**Mobilize the next generation of conservation and resilience workers.**
This $10 billion investment will put a new, diverse generation of
Americans to work conserving our public lands and waters, bolstering
community resilience, and advancing environmental justice through a new
Civilian Climate Corps, all while placing good-paying union jobs within
reach for more Americans.  
  
**<u>Catalyze Next Generation Industries</u>**  
  
**Build next generation industries in distressed communities.**
President Biden believes that the market-based shift toward clean energy
presents enormous opportunities for the development of new markets and
new industries. For example, by pairing an investment in 15 decarbonized
hydrogen demonstration projects in distressed communities with a new
production tax credit, we can spur capital-project retrofits and
installations that bolster and decarbonize our industry. The President’s
plan also will establish ten pioneer facilities that demonstrate carbon
capture retrofits for large steel, cement, and chemical production
facilities, all while ensuring that overburdened communities are
protected from increases in cumulative pollution. In addition, in line
with the bipartisan SCALE Act, his plan will support large-scale
sequestration efforts that leverage the best science and prioritize
community engagement. And to accelerate responsible carbon capture
deployment and ensure permanent storage, President Biden’s plan reforms
and expands the bipartisan Section 45Q tax credit, making it direct pay
and easier to use for hard-to-decarbonize industrial applications,
direct air capture, and retrofits of existing power plants.

**Jumpstart clean energy manufacturing through federal
procurement. **The federal government spends more than a half-a-trillion
dollars buying goods and services each year. As a result, it has the
ability to be a first-mover in markets. The President is calling on
Congress to enable the manufacture of electric vehicles, charging ports,
and electric heat pumps for residential heating and commercial
buildings, as well as critical technologies like advanced nuclear
reactors and fuel, here at home through a $46 billion investment in
federal buying power, creating good-paying jobs and reinvigorating local
economies, especially in rural areas.  
  
**Strengthen manufacturing supply chains for critical goods**. President
Biden believes we must produce, here at home, the technologies and goods
that meet today’s challenges and seize tomorrow’s opportunities.
President Biden is calling on Congress to invest $50 billion to create a
new office at the Department of Commerce dedicated to monitoring
domestic industrial capacity and funding investments to support
production of critical goods.  
  
**Advance U.S. leadership in critical technologies and upgrade America’s
research infrastructure.** President Biden is calling on Congress to
provide $30 billion in additional funding for R&D that spurs innovation
and job creation, including in rural areas. His plan also will invest
$40 billion in upgrading research infrastructure in laboratories across
the country, including brick-and-mortar facilities and computing
capabilities and networks. These funds would be allocated across the
federal R&D agencies, including at the Department of Energy.  
  
**Support small, medium and rural manufacturers**. President Biden is
calling on Congress to quadruple support for the Manufacturing
Extensions Partnership —increasing the involvement of minority-owned and
rurally-located small- and-medium-sized enterprises in technological
advancement. He is also calling to invest $14 billion in NIST to bring
together industry, academia, and government to advance technologies and
capabilities critical to future competitiveness.  
  
**Increase access to capital for domestic manufacturers**. America’s
manufacturing industry needs to innovate, adapt, and scale to win the
industries of the future. President Biden is calling on Congress to
invest more than $52 billion in domestic manufacturers. The President is
calling on Congress to invest in existing capital access programs with a
proven track record of success, with a focus on supporting rural
manufacturing and clean energy. The President’s plan also includes
specific supports for modernizing supply chains, including in the auto
sector, like extending the 48C tax credit program. He also will call for
the creation of a new financing program to support debt and equity
investments for manufacturing to strengthen the resilience of America’s
supply chains.  
  
**<u>Fund Civic Infrastructure that Sparks New Economic Activity</u>**  
  
**Invest billions in critical physical, social and civic
infrastructure** including through the Economic Development Agency’s
Public Works program, “Main Street” revitalization efforts through HUD
and USDA, the Appalachian Regional Commission’s POWER grant program, the
Department of Energy retooling grants for idled factories (through the
Section 132 program), and dedicated funding to support community-driven
environmental justice efforts – such as capacity and project grants to
address legacy pollution and the cumulative impacts experienced by
frontline and fence line communities.  
  
**Partner with rural and Tribal communities to create jobs and economic
growth in rural America.** Today, despite the fact that rural and Tribal
communities across the country are asset-rich, more than 8 in 10
persistent poverty counties fall outside of a metropolitan area.
President Biden is proposing to transform the way the federal government
partners with rural and Tribal communities to create jobs and spur
inclusive economic growth. As part of his plan to ensure that all
communities recover – regardless of geography – President Biden is
proposing a $5 billion for a new Rural Partnership Program to help rural
regions, including Tribal Nations, build on their unique assets and
realize their vision for inclusive community and economic development.
This program will empower rural regions by supporting locally-led
planning and capacity building efforts, and providing flexible funding
to meet critical needs.  
  
**Make it in ALL of America.** The President believes we must build
social infrastructure to support innovation and productivity across the
country. He is calling on Congress to invest $20 billion in regional
innovation hubs and a Community Revitalization Fund. At least ten
regional innovation hubs will leverage private investment to fuel
technology development, link urban and rural economies, and create new
businesses in regions beyond the current handful of high-growth centers.
The Community Revitalization Fund will support innovative, community-led
redevelopment projects that can spark new economic activity, provide
services and amenities, build community wealth, and close the current
gaps in access to the innovation economy for communities of color and
rural communities that have suffered from years of disinvestment.   
  
**Invest in community college infrastructure**. Investing in community
college facilities and technology helps protect the health and safety of
students and faculty, address education deserts (particularly for rural
communities), grow local economies, improve energy efficiency and
resilience, and narrow funding inequities in the short-term, as we
rebuild our higher education finance system for the long-run. President
Biden is calling on Congress to invest $12 billion to address these
needs. States will be responsible for using the dollars to address both
existing physical and technological infrastructure needs at community
colleges and identifying strategies to address access to community
college in education deserts.  
  
**<u>Secure Benefits and Opportunity for Energy Workers  
</u>**  
**Empower Workers**. President Biden is calling on Congress to update
the social contract that provides workers with a fair shot to get ahead,
overcome racial and other inequalities that have been barriers for too
many Americans, expand the middle class, and strengthen communities. He
is calling on Congress to ensure all workers have a free and fair choice
to join a union by passing the Protecting the Right to Organize (PRO)
Act, and guarantee union and bargaining rights for public service
workers. His plan also ensures domestic workers receive the legal
benefits and protections they deserve and tackles pay inequities based
on gender.

**Create good jobs**. The President’s plan demands that employers
benefitting from these investments follow strong labor standards and
remain neutral when their employees seek to organize a union and bargain
collectively. He is asking Congress to tie federal investments in clean
energy and infrastructure to prevailing wages and require transportation
investments to meet existing transit labor protections. He also is
calling for investments tied to Project Labor, Community Workforce,
local hire, and registered apprenticeships and other labor or
labor-management training programs so that federal investments support
good jobs and pathways to the middle class. Finally, he is asking
Congress to include a commitment to increasing American jobs through Buy
America and Ship American provisions.  
  
**Call for a $40 billion investment in a new Dislocated Workers
Program** and sector-based training.  This funding will ensure
comprehensive services for workers, who have lost jobs through no fault
of their own, to gain new skills and to get career services they need
with in-demand jobs. Sector-based training programs will be focused on
growing, high demand sectors such as clean energy and manufacturing,
helping workers of all kinds to find good-quality jobs in an
ever-changing economy.

\###
