---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-04-23'
modified_time: 2021-04-23 15:36:05-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/04/23/president-biden-announces-six-key-administration-nominations/
published_time: 2021-04-23 15:36:04-04:00
title: President Biden Announces Six Key Administration Nominations
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Joe Biden announced his intent to nominate
the following individuals to serve in his Administration:

-   Donald Remy, Nominee for Deputy Secretary of Veterans Affairs
-   Miriam Delphin-Rittmon, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for Mental
    Health and Substance Use, Department of Health and Human Services
-   Solomon Greene, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for Policy
    Development and Research, Department of Housing and Urban
    Development
-   Helaine Greenfeld, Nominee for Assistant Attorney General for
    Legislative Affairs, Department of Justice
-   Rajesh Nayak, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for Policy, Department
    of Labor
-   Kimberly Jones, Nominee for Member of the Board of Directors of the
    National Institute of Building Sciences

**<u>Donald Remy, Nominee for Deputy Secretary of Veterans Affairs</u>**

Donald M. Remy is a military veteran who earned a meritorious service
medal during his tenure as a Captain in the United States Army.
Presently, he is the National Collegiate Athletic Association Chief
Operating Officer and Chief Legal Officer. Through his multifaceted
leadership role, he oversees strategic planning, operations, sports
science and medicine, budget management, communications and legal
affairs. He advises and interfaces extensively with the governance
cabinets, committees and boards of all three Divisions. Harnessing his
strengths in complex problem solving and crisis management, Remy has
been instrumental over the years in improving critical risk,
operational, financial and legal strategies and recently has been a key
leader during the COVID19 pandemic helping the organization and its
membership traverse a myriad of challenges presented in national,
regional and local arenas.  
  
Previously, Remy served as a partner and global practice group chair at
Latham & Watkins where he represented individual and corporate clients
in complex investigations, compliance, and crisis management matters.
His government career includes serving as Deputy Assistant Attorney
General for the Department of Justice where he was responsible for the
day-to-day management of the Torts Branch and personally handled high
profile litigation. As an Army Officer, he served as Assistant to the
General Counsel for the United States Army, advising the General
Counsel, the Secretary of the Army and other senior Army and Defense
officials on a myriad of legal and policy issues. And, rounding out his
federal government duties he was a law clerk to The Honorable Nathaniel
R. Jones on the 6th US Circuit Court of Appeals. In addition to holding
government offices, Donald worked in the private sector as a Senior Vice
President in the legal, compliance and housing and community development
components of Fannie Mae, where his last duty assignment was assisting
with the rebuilding of communities in the US Gulf Coast after Hurricane
Katrina. Remy has served as the co-chair of the Washington Lawyers
Committee for Civil Rights and Urban Affairs and a board member of the
Abramson Scholarship Foundation as well as AARP, Legal Counsel for the
Elderly.  
  
Remy earned a bachelor’s degree from Louisiana State University and a
juris doctorate from Howard University School of Law.  
  
**<u>Miriam Delphin-Rittmon, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for Mental
Health and Substance Use, Department of Health and Human Services</u>**

Dr. Miriam E. Delphin-Rittmon is currently the Commissioner of the
Connecticut State Department of Mental Health and Addiction Services.
She was appointed in March 2015 and previously held the positions of
Deputy Commissioner, Senior Policy Advisor and Director of the
department’s Office of Multicultural Health Equity. In her role as
Commissioner, Dr. Delphin-Rittmon has been committed to promoting
recovery oriented, integrated, and culturally responsive services and
systems that foster dignity, respect, and meaningful community
inclusion. In addition, through her 20 year career in the behavioral
health field Dr. Delphin-Rittmon has extensive experience in the design,
evaluation and administration of mental health, substance use and
prevention services and programs has received several awards for
advancing policy in these areas. Most recently, she received the 2019
State Service Award from the National Association of State Drug and
Alcohol Directors and the 2016 Mental Health Award for Excellence from
the United Nations Committee on Mental Health.   
  
In May 2014, Dr. Delphin-Rittmon completed a two-year White House
appointment working as a Senior Advisor to the Administrator of the
Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) with
the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. Dr. Delphin-Rittmon
currently holds an Associate Adjunct Professor position with the Yale
University Department of Psychiatry where prior to her role as
Commissioner was an Assistant Professor and served as Director of
Cultural Competence and Health Disparities Research and Consultation
with the Program for Recovery and Community Health since 2003. Dr.
Delphin-Rittmon received her B.A. in Social Science from Hofstra
University in 1989, her M.S. and Ph.D. in Clinical Psychology from
Purdue University 1992 and 2001, respectively, and completed a
postdoctoral fellowship in clinical community psychology at Yale
University in 2002.  
  
**<u>Solomon Greene, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for Policy
Development and Research, Department of Housing and Urban
Development</u>**

Solomon Greene is a senior fellow at the Urban Institute, where he leads
research on fair and affordable housing, land use, technology and
inclusive growth and recovery in cities. Before joining Urban, Greene
was a senior adviser at the US Department of Housing and Urban
Development, where he helped develop policies to reduce segregation and
expand neighborhood choice. He was also HUD’s principal adviser on the
United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals.  
  
Greene has also served as a senior program officer at the Open Society
Foundations, an adjunct professor at NYU Wagner Graduate School of
Public Service, a law fellow at NYU Furman Center for Real Estate and
Urban Policy, a litigation associate at Munger, Tolles & Olson, and a
law clerk for Hon. Dorothy W. Nelson on the US Court of Appeals for the
Ninth Circuit. Greene serves on the board of directors for the National
Housing Law Project, the American Bar Association COVID-19 Task Force
Committee on Evictions, and the advisory board for Up for Growth. Greene
received his BA from Stanford University, his Master of City Planning
from the University of California, Berkeley, and his JD from Yale Law
School. He grew up in Ulster County, New York and currently lives in
Washington DC.   
  
**<u>Helaine Greenfeld, Nominee for Assistant Attorney General for
Legislative Affairs, Department of Justice</u>**

Helaine Greenfeld is a career public servant with over 25 years of
experience, serving in both the executive and legislative branches. Ms.
Greenfeld first joined the Justice Department under Attorney General
Janet Reno, holding multiple positions over eight years including in the
Civil Rights Division and Office of Legal Policy, where she was a Deputy
Assistant Attorney General. Greenfeld worked as Chief Nominations
Counsel to Senator Patrick J. Leahy before returning to the Justice
Department under Attorney General Eric Holder, Greenfeld was a Deputy
Associate Attorney General and a Counselor to the Attorney General.
Prior to joining the Biden-Harris administration as the Principal Deputy
Assistant Attorney General for Legislative Affairs, Greenfeld was Chief
Counsel to Senator Mazie K. Hirono. A Baltimore native, Greenfeld
graduate from Yale University and Georgetown University Law Center. She
and her husband have two children and live in Chevy Chase, Maryland.  
  
**<u>Rajesh Nayak, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for Policy,
Department of Labor</u>**

Rajesh D. Nayak is currently serving as a Senior Advisor at the United
States Department of Labor. He previously spent seven years at the labor
department in the Obama-Biden Administration, serving in a range of
senior roles including senior counsel and deputy assistant secretary for
policy. Later, as deputy chief of staff, Nayak advised the Secretary of
Labor on the Department’s workforce development, worker protection, and
counter-trafficking programs, and led the Department’s employee
engagement efforts.  
  
After his time in the Obama-Biden Administration, Nayak’s work included
two-plus years as the Deputy Executive Director of the National
Employment Law Project, where he helped to lead the organization’s
restructuring and managed its senior leadership. Most recently, he has
also been a Fellow at the Labor & Worklife Program at Harvard Law School
and a consultant. Prior to his government service, Nayak worked as an
attorney at NELP, the Brennan Center for Justice at NYU School of Law,
and the Shriver Center in Chicago. He earned an undergraduate degree in
public policy from the University of Chicago and a law degree from Yale.
Nayak grew up in South Central Illinois and now lives in Silver Spring,
Maryland, with his wife, daughter, and son.  
  
**<u>Kimberly Jones, Nominee for Member of the Board of Directors of the
National Institute of Building Sciences</u>**

Dr. Kimberly L. Jones is Associate Dean for Research and Graduate
Education (College of Engineering and Architecture) and Professor and
Chair (Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering) at Howard
University. She holds a B.S in Civil Engineering from Howard University,
a M.S. in Civil and Environmental Engineering from the University of
Illinois and a Ph.D. in Environmental Engineering from The Johns Hopkins
University. Her research interests include water and wastewater quality,
environmental policy, membrane separations, global water treatment,
environmental justice, risk evaluation and environmental
nanotechnology.  
  
Dr. Jones has served on the Chartered Science Advisory Board of the US
EPA, where she chaired the Drinking Water Committee and was liaison to
the National Drinking Water Advisory Council. She currently serves on
the Advisory Committee for Environmental Research and Education at the
National Science Foundation. She is an alternate Commissioner of the
Interstate Commission on the Potomac River Basin in Washington, DC.,
where she chairs the committee on justice, equity, diversity and
inclusion (JEDI). She also serves on the Center Steering Committee of
the Center for the Environmental Implications of Nanotechnology (CEINT)
and on the Management Board of the Consortium for Risk Evaluation with
Stakeholder Participation (CRESP) and as Associate Director for
Diversity in the Urban Water Innovation Network (UWIN).  
  
Dr. Jones has served on the Water Science and Technology Board of the
National Academy of Sciences, and the Board of Association of
Environmental Engineering and Science Professors, where she was
Secretary of the Board. She has served on several committees of the
National Academies of Sciences, Engineering and Medicine. She served as
the Deputy Director of the Keck Center for Nanoscale Materials for
Molecular Recognition at Howard University. Dr. Jones has received the
Researcher of the Year award from Howard University, a Top Women in
Science Award from the National Technical Association, the Outstanding
Young Civil Engineer award from University of Illinois Department of
Civil and Environmental Engineering, a NSF CAREER Award, an Outstanding
Leadership and Service and Outstanding Faculty Mentor award from Howard
University, and Top Women Achievers award from Essence Magazine.  

\###
