---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-04-09'
modified_time: 2021-04-09 14:45:07-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/04/09/president-biden-announces-his-intent-to-nominate-key-members-for-the-department-of-veterans-affairs-department-of-labor-department-of-energy-and-department-of-transportation/
published_time: 2021-04-09 14:45:06-04:00
title: "President\_Biden Announces his Intent to Nominate Key Members for the Department\
  \ of Veterans Affairs, Department of Labor, Department of Energy, and Department\
  \ of\_Transportation"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Joe Biden announced his intent to nominate
Matt Quinn for Under Secretary for Memorial Affairs, Department of
Veterans Affairs, Doug Parker for Assistant Secretary for Occupational
Safety and Health, Department of Labor, Ali Nouri for Assistant
Secretary for Congressional and Intergovernmental Affairs, Department of
Energy, and Nuria Fernandez for Administrator, Federal Transit
Administration, Department of Transportation.

**<u>Matt Quinn, Nominee for</u>** **<u>Under Secretary for Memorial
Affairs, Department of Veterans Affairs </u>**

Major General (Retired) Matthew Quinn served nearly 37 years in our US
Army and Army National Guard, culminating in his selection as the 27th
Adjutant General for the State of Montana.  He is a veteran of
Operations Desert Storm and Iraqi Freedom, commanding Soldiers at the
company and battalion level.  Prior to selection as the Adjutant
General, Quinn was the President of ELM Locating and Utility Services,
while serving in the Montana National Guard as a traditional (Drill
status) Guardsman.  Like all National Guard and Reserve women and men
who serve, he carefully balanced his family, military and civilian
careers.

MG (Ret) Quinn has a bachelor’s degree in electrical engineering degree
from Montana State University, a Master of Business Administration from
the University of Montana, and a Master of Strategic Studies from the US
Army War College.  Quinn is married to Jody Quinn and they are the proud
parents of five children, Jon, Braeden, Maddi, Kailyn, and Megan ranging
in age from 32 to 18.  They enjoy everything that Montana has to offer
in the great outdoors while spending time with family.   

**<u>Doug Parker, Nominee for</u>** **<u>Assistant Secretary for
Occupational Safety and Health, Department of Labor</u>**

Douglas L. Parker of San Francisco, California, previously served in the
Obama Administration as Deputy Assistant Secretary for Policy in the
Department of Labor’s Mine Safety and Health Administration, and was a
member of the Biden-Harris transition team focused on worker health and
safety issues. He also held positions as a senior policy advisor and
special assistant at the Department of Labor. He currently serves as
chief of California’s Division of Occupational Safety and Health
(Cal/OSHA), a position he has held since 2019. Prior to his appointment
to Cal/OSHA, Parker was executive director of Worksafe, an Oakland,
California-based legal services provider.

Before serving in the Obama Administration, Parker was a partner at the
law firm Mooney, Green, Saindon, Murphy and Welch, in Washington, DC. He
began his legal career as a staff attorney at the United Mine Workers of
America. Prior to law school, Parker worked in the private sector as a
sales and marketing director, in communications for the Democratic
National Committee, and was a staff assistant for the late Senator Paul
Wellstone. Parker earned a J.D. from the University of Virginia School
of Law and a B.A. in history from James Madison University. He is
married and has two daughters. Parker is originally from Bluefield, West
Virginia, and grew up in Lynchburg, Virginia.

**<u>Ali Nouri, Nominee for</u>** **<u>Assistant Secretary for
Congressional and Intergovernmental Affairs, Department of Energy</u>**

Ali Nouri, PhD joined the Administration in January and was serving as
the Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary in the Department of Energy’s
Office of Congressional and Intergovernmental Affairs. Previously, he
was the President of the Federation of American Scientists, a public
policy organization focused on countering WMDs, addressing emerging
infectious diseases, and crafting solutions to energy and innovation
challenges. Under his leadership, the organization also tackled science
denialism and COVID-19 misinformation by providing timely, science-based
information to policy makers and to the public.

Previously, Nouri served as an advisor in the US Senate for nearly a
decade, including 6 years for a member of the Senate Committee on Energy
and Natural Resources. During his time in the Senate he served in
various positions including as an Energy and Environment Advisor, a
National Security Advisor, and as a Legislative Director. Prior to that,
Nouri served as an advisor to the office of UN Secretary General Kofi
Annan where he developed initiatives to block biotechnology from being
used to produce biological weapons. He earned a BA in biology from Reed
College and a PhD in molecular biology from Princeton University. He
resides in Washington DC with his wife, Logan Gibson, and their two
sons.

**<u>Nuria Fernandez, Nominee for</u>** **<u>Administrator, Federal
Transit Administration, Department of Transportation</u>**

Nuria Fernandez was appointed as the Deputy Administrator and senior
official of the Federal Transit Administration on January 20, 2021. With
more than 35 years of experience, Fernandez has made a name for herself
as an inspiring leader in the transportation industry. She comes to FTA
after serving as the General Manager and CEO of the Santa Clara Valley
Transportation Authority (VTA), delivering projects, programs, and
transit services that provide mobility solutions for more than two
million people who live and work in Silicon Valley.

Prior to leading VTA, Fernandez held leadership positions at some of the
busiest transit agencies in America, including Chief Operating Officer
of the New York Metropolitan Transportation Authority, and Sr. Vice
President of Design and Construction for the Chicago Transit Authority
and the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority, consecutively.
She also served as Commissioner for the Chicago Department of Aviation,
overseeing O’Hare and Midway Airports. Fernandez is the immediate past
Chair of the American Public Transportation Association, and served on
the boards of the Mineta Transportation Institute, The Transportation
Learning Center and on the Executive Committee of the Transportation
Research Board.

Nuria Fernandez was born and raised in Panama City, Panama.  She holds a
B.S. in Civil Engineering from Bradley University in Peoria, Illinois,
and an M.B.A. from Roosevelt University in Chicago.

\###
