---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-04-14'
modified_time: 2021-04-14 15:08:02-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/04/14/president-biden-announces-his-intent-to-nominate-key-administration-leaders-on-climate-and-transportation/
published_time: 2021-04-14 11:23:10-04:00
title: "President\_Biden Announces His Intent to Nominate Key Administration Leaders\
  \ on Climate and\_Transportation"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Joe Biden announced his intent to nominate
10 members of his Administration to lead on climate and transportation
matters across key agencies, including the Department of Energy,
Department of the Interior, Environmental Protection Agency, and
Department of Transportation.  

The President has tapped Tommy Beaudreau for Deputy Secretary of the
Interior, Department of the Interior, Meera Joshi for Administrator,
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, Department of
Transportation, Faisal Amin for Chief Financial Officer, Environmental
Protection Agency, Christopher Coes for Assistant Secretary for
Transportation Policy, Department of Transportation, Shannon Estenoz for
Assistant Secretary for Fish and Wildlife and Parks, Department of the
Interior, Radhika Fox for Assistant Administrator for Water,
Environmental Protection Agency, Michal Freedhoff for Assistant
Administrator for Chemical Safety and Pollution Protection,
Environmental Protection Agency, Jill Hruby for Under Secretary for
Nuclear Security and Administrator for of the National Nuclear Security
Administration, Department of Energy, Winnie Stachelberg for Assistant
Secretary for Policy, Management, and Budget, Department of the
Interior, Department of the Interior, and Tanya Trujillo, Nominee for
Assistant Secretary for Water and Science, Department of the Interior.

**<u>Tommy Beaudreau, Nominee for Deputy Secretary of the Interior,
Department of the Interior</u>**

Tommy P. Beaudreau is an attorney and former Chief of Staff for the U.S.
Department of the Interior under Interior Secretary Sally Jewell. 
During his nearly seven years with the Interior Department, he also
served as the first Director of the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management
and as Acting Assistant Secretary for Land and Minerals Management. 
Beaudreau was born in Colorado and raised in Alaska.  He currently is a
lawyer in private practice in the Environment, Land and Resources
Department at Latham & Watkins, LLP and was a non-resident fellow with
Columbia University’s Center for Global Energy Policy.  Beaudreau is a
graduate of Yale University and the Georgetown University Law Center. 
He resides in Washington, DC with his wife and two children.   

**<u>Meera Joshi, Nominee for Administrator, Federal Motor Carrier
Safety Administration, Department of Transportation</u>**

Meera Joshi was appointed as the Deputy Administrator and senior
official of the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration on January
20, 2021.   She is an attorney with over 16 years of experience leading
government oversight agencies.  She was Chair and CEO of the New York
City Taxi and Limousine Commission, the nation’s largest for-hire
transportation regulator where she spearheaded novel Vision Zero
campaigns using data tools to keep high risk drivers and unsafe vehicles
off the road.  She also led landmark policy, including establishing
robust open transportation data standards for app based providers;
enacting the nation’s first for-hire driver pay protection program and
providing broad access to for-hire transportation for passengers who use
wheelchairs.

Prior to transportation regulation, Joshi was the Inspector General for
New York City’s Department of Corrections, responsible for investigation
of corruption and criminality at all levels of New York City’s jail
operations and the First Deputy Executive Director of New York City’s
Civilian Complaint Review Board, leading investigations of police
misconduct.

In addition to her government positions, Joshi served as General Manager
for the New York Office of Sam Schwartz Transportation Consultants, and
was a visiting scholar at New York University’s Rudin Center for
Transportation Policy.  Joshi was born and raised in Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania. She holds a B.A. and a J.D. from the University of
Pennsylvania.

**<u>Faisal Amin, Nominee for Chief Financial Officer, Environmental
Protection Agency</u>**

Faisal Amin currently serves as Deputy Director of the Office of
Administration in the Executive Office of the President.  Most recently,
he worked on the Executive Office of the President Management and
Administration Agency Review Team, as well as the Vetting Operations
team, on the Biden-Harris Transition.  During the Obama-Biden
Administration, he served in several roles, including as Chief Financial
Officer of the Executive Office of the President, where he led the team
responsible for managing all aspects of finance and procurement for EOP
components.

Amin has spent the majority of his career as an appropriations attorney
at the United States Government Accountability Office, researching and
drafting appropriations law decisions, providing technical assistance to
agencies and Congress, and teaching appropriations law classes.  While
on detail from GAO to the Senate Interior Appropriations subcommittee,
he helped develop and advocate for EPA’s fiscal year 2020 appropriation.

Originally from California, Amin earned his undergraduate degree at the
University of California, Berkeley, and his law degree at the University
of Arizona.  He lives in Maryland with his wife and two sons.

**<u>Christopher Coes, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for
Transportation Policy, Department of Transportation</u>**

Christopher Coes serves as the Acting Assistant Secretary for
Transportation Policy in the Office of the Assistant Secretary for
Transportation Policy.

Prior to joining the President Biden’s Administration, C0es served as
Vice President for Land Use and Development at Smart Growth America
(SGA), and considered nationally recognized leader in leveraging public
policy, the private sector and community assets to build equitable,
sustainable communities.

For the last ten years, he led SGA’s built environment programs – LOCUS:
Responsible Real Estate Developers and Investors, the National
Brownfields Coalition and TOD Finance and Advisors, Inc., a for-profit
subsidiary of Smart Growth America – which has resulted in major federal
policy victories including securing over $20 billion in new
transit-oriented development and local infrastructure financing and the
reauthorization of the EPA’s brownfields program.

Under Coes leadership, SGA grew to become a national leader known to be
unafraid to tackle some of the toughest challenges facing the smart
growth real estate industry today. Coes authored series of reports and
publications, including a 2020 report on the impact of converging trends
of climate, racial injustice, COVID-19 and economic recovery on the
built environment and a 2018 national opportunity zone report to help
investors and local policymakers identify and deliver positive economic,
environmental, and social returns.

Prior to joining Smart Growth America, Coes served as a Consultant for
Government Affairs and Campaigns at M+R Strategic Services. As a
consultant, Christopher worked with various clients including Save
Darfur, SEIU, Habitat for Humanity and Transportation for America, where
he served as Senior Campaign Advisor and Deputy Director. In addition to
his work on transportation, community development and real estate
issues, Coes brings over fifteen years of experience in domestic policy,
political and advocacy campaigns, strategic planning and organizational
management.

Coes received a BA/MA in Government and Politics from St. John’s
University and was honored to receive the 2015 Emerging Leader Award
from AAREP of DC.

**<u>Shannon Estenoz, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for Fish and
Wildlife and Parks, Department of the Interior</u>**

Shannon Estenoz is the Principal Deputy Assistant Secretary for Fish and
Wildlife and Parks for the Department of the Interior.  Prior to being
appointed to her current position, Shannon served as the Chief Operating
Officer and Vice President of Policy for The Everglades Foundation. 
Previously, Shannon served as the US Department of the Interior’s
Director of Everglades Restoration Initiatives and the Executive
Director of the South Florida Ecosystem Restoration Task Force.  Her
previous professional roles also include Executive Director of the
Environmental and Land Use Law Center, Everglades Program Director of
the World Wildlife Fund, Sun Coast Regional Director of the National
Parks Conservation Association and three terms as the National Co-Chair
of the Everglades Coalition. Estenoz’s public service includes
appointments to Florida Governor Lawton Chiles’ Commission for a
Sustainable South Florida, Governor Jeb Bush’s Commission for the
Everglades, the Governing Board of the South Florida Water Management
District, the Water Resources Advisory Commission and the Broward Water
Resources Task Force.   

Estenoz is a fifth generation native of Key West, Florida. She holds
degrees in International Affairs and Civil Engineering from Florida
State University.

**<u>Radhika Fox, Nominee for Assistant Administrator for Water,
Environmental Protection Agency</u>**

On January 20, 2021, President Biden appointed Radhika Fox to the
position of Principal Deputy Assistant Administrator for Water at the
Environmental Protection Agency. She currently serves as the Acting
Assistant Administer for Water. The EPA’s Office of Water works to
ensure that drinking water is safe, wastewater is safely returned to the
environment, and surface waters are properly managed and protected.

Prior to joining EPA, Fox served as Chief Executive Officer for the US
Water Alliance, where she established herself as a widely recognized
national thought leader on complex water issues, from equitable water
management to investing in our nation’s water infrastructure. Her work
has helped address the most salient water issues facing the
nation—including climate change, affordability, equity, governance,
innovative finance, and the evolution of the One Water movement. Fox
previously directed the policy and government affairs agenda for the San
Francisco Public Utilities Commission, which is responsible for
providing 24/7 water, wastewater, and municipal power services to 2.6
million Bay Area residents. She also served as the Federal Policy
Director at PolicyLink, where she coordinated the organization’s policy
agenda on a wide range of issues, including infrastructure investment,
transportation, sustainable communities, economic inclusion, and
workforce development.

Fox holds a B.A. from Columbia University and a Masters in City and
Regional Planning from the University of California at Berkeley where
she was a HUD Community Development Fellow.

**<u>Michal Freedhoff, Nominee for Assistant Administrator for Chemical
Safety and Pollution Prevention, Environmental Protection Agency</u>**

Michal Ilana Freedhoff currently serves as the Principal Deputy
Assistant Administrator of the Office of Chemical Safety and Pollution
Prevention at the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency.  She has more
than twenty years of government experience, most recently as the 
Minority Director of Oversight for the Senate Environment and Public
Works Committee. She began her  Congressional service in 1996 in
then-Congressman Ed Markey’s office as a Congressional Science and
Engineering fellow after receiving a Ph.D. in physical chemistry at the
University of Rochester.  She has also served on the staffs of the House
Science Committee, the House Select Committee on Energy Independence and
Global Warming, the House Energy and Commerce Committee and the House
Natural Resources Committee.  With environmental expertise spanning a
range of policy areas, her legislative work includes the 2016
re-authorization of the Toxic Substances Control Act, 2019 legislation
to address PFAS contamination, the fuel economy provisions in the 2007
Energy Independence and Security Act, and a law requiring the creation
of an online database of potential consumer product safety defects. She
lives in Bethesda, MD with her husband Michael Van Leeuwen and their
four children, Zahava, Rena, Sammy and Vivienne.

**<u>Jill Hruby, Nominee for Under Secretary for Nuclear Security and
Administrator of the National Nuclear Security Administration,
Department of Energy</u>**

Jill Hruby is a mechanical engineer who joined Sandia National
Laboratories as a member of the technical staff in 1983 and retired as
the Laboratories Director in 2017 after a distinguished 34-year career. 
At Sandia, Hruby held roles of increasing management responsibilities
with experiences in nuclear weapons systems and component design,
nuclear non-proliferation, defense and homeland security technologies
and systems, renewable energy, materials science, engineering sciences,
and microsystems technology.  She was the first woman to lead a national
security lab.

Since her retirement, Hruby served as the inaugural Sam Nunn
Distinguished Fellow at the Nuclear Threat Initiative from 2018-2019. 
In addition, she has been a member of the Defense Science Board, the
National Nuclear Security Administration Defense Programs Advisory
Committee, and the National Academy of Science Committee for
International Security and Arms Control.  She has served on a variety of
technical advisory committees and non-profit organization boards.  She
is a frequent participant in international dialogs; a spokesperson for
women in engineering; and a mentor for emerging leaders. 

Hruby earned her bachelor’s degree from Purdue University and her
master’s degree from the University of California at Berkeley, both in
mechanical engineering. She has authored numerous publications and
reports, holds three patents, and received an R&D 100 Award.  In 2016,
she received the Suzanne Jenniches Upward Mobility Award from the
Society of Women Engineers. In 2017, Business Insider named her the
second most powerful female engineer.  Jill has received the Department
of Energy Secretary’s Exceptional Service Award, the National Nuclear
Security Administrator’s Distinguished Service Gold Award, and Office of
the Secretary of Defense Medal for Exceptional Public Service. 

**<u>Winnie Stachelberg, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for Policy,
Management, and Budget, Department of the Interior</u>**

Winnie Stachelberg is the executive vice president for External Affairs
at the Center for American Progress. Since 2006 she has played an
integral role in developing and driving the strategic direction of a
multi-issue progressive agenda among elected officials, advocacy groups,
and other stakeholders. A champion for LBGTQ rights, Stachelberg has
been instrumental in shaping policy victories such as the repeal of
“don’t ask, don’t tell” and the passage of the Equality Act in the U.S.
House of Representatives.

Prior to joining CAP, Stachelberg spent 11 years with the Human Rights
Campaign, serving as both Political Director and the first vice
president of HRC’s Foundation. Stachelberg started her career as a
budget analyst at the Office of Management and Budget. A native New
Yorker, Stachelberg taught English at George Washington High School
after graduating Georgetown University. She earned a master’s degree in
public administration from George Washington University.

**<u>Tanya Trujillo, Nominee for Assistant Secretary for Water and
Science, Department of the Interior</u>**

Tanya Trujillo is a water lawyer with more than 20 years of experience
working on complex natural resources management issues and interstate
and transboundary water agreements.  During her career, she has worked
extensively with technical experts and has been part of diverse
interdisciplinary teams to address resource management challenges. 
Prior to her current role with the Department of the Interior, she
worked as a project director with the Colorado River Sustainability
Campaign to support philanthropy and non-governmental teams working on
issues throughout the Colorado River Basin.  She previously served as
the Executive Director of the Colorado River Board of California working
closely with agricultural and municipal water users who utilize water
from the Colorado River.  In Washington, DC, Ms. Trujillo served as
Senior Council to the U.S. Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee
for New Mexico Senator Jeff Bingaman and previously worked with the
Department of the Interior as Counselor to the Assistant Secretary for
Water and Science during the Obama administration. 

Trujillo is a native New Mexican.  She served as general counsel to the
New Mexico Interstate Stream Commission and started her career as a
natural resources lawyer in private practice in Santa Fe, New Mexico.
Ms. Trujillo attended Stanford University and the University of Iowa
College of Law.

\###
