---
category: statements-releases
date: '2021-04-23'
modified_time: 2021-04-23 17:34:58-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/04/23/leaders-summit-on-climate-summary-of-proceedings/
published_time: 2021-04-23 05:02:00-04:00
title: Leaders Summit on Climate Summary of Proceedings
---
 
After fulfilling his promise to bring America back into the Paris
Agreement, President Biden convened 40 world leaders in a virtual
Leaders Summit on Climate this week to rally the world in tackling the
climate crisis and meeting the demands of science. The United States and
other countries announced ambitious new climate targets ensuring that
nations accounting for half of the world’s economy have now committed to
the emission reductions needed globally to keep the goal of limiting
global warming to 1.5-degrees C within reach. Many leaders underscored
the urgency of other major economies strengthening their ambition as
well on the road to the United Nations Climate Change Conference (COP
26) in November 2021 in Glasgow.

The Summit, which was the largest virtual gathering of world leaders,
convened the Major Economies Forum on Energy and Climate (the world’s 17
largest economies and greenhouse gas emitters) and included the leaders
of other countries especially vulnerable to climate impacts or charting
innovative pathways to a net-zero economy. President Biden was joined at
the Summit by Vice President Harris, members of the President’s Cabinet,
Special Presidential Envoy for Climate John Kerry, and National Climate
Advisor Gina McCarthy, as well as senior representatives of other
countries and leaders from business and civil society. The full agenda
and list of participants is available at
<https://www.state.gov/leaders-summit-on-climate/>.

With the science telling us that the world needs to significantly
increase the scale and speed of climate action, President Biden
considered it vital to host this Summit within his first 100 days in
office to make clear that it is a top U.S. priority to combat the
climate crisis at home and abroad.

Vice President Harris opened the Summit by emphasizing the intertwined
imperatives of addressing the climate crisis, creating jobs, and
protecting the most vulnerable communities. Her remarks set the stage
for the launch of the Summit’s five sessions, which were live-streamed:
\[https://www.state.gov/leaders-summit-on-climate/\].

President Biden began Session 1 (“**Raising Our Climate Ambition**”) by
framing enhanced climate action as necessary both to address the crisis
and to promote economic opportunity, including the creation of
good-paying, union jobs. He told Summit participants that the United
States will halve its greenhouse gas emissions within this decade,
noting that countries that take decisive action now will reap the
economic benefits of a clean energy future. To enshrine this commitment,
the United States submitted a new “nationally determined contribution”
(NDC) under the Paris Agreement setting an economy-wide emissions target
of a 50-52% reduction below 2005 levels in 2030. Secretary of State
Blinken conveyed a strong sense of urgency in tackling the climate
crisis, noting that this is a critical year and a decisive decade to
take action. He noted the U.S. resolve to work with other countries to
engage in all avenues of cooperation to “save our planet.” 

Participants noted the need to work rapidly over the course of this
decade to accelerate decarbonization efforts and are taking a range of
actions to that end. Announcements during this Session included, among
others:

-   Japan will cut emissions 46-50% below 2013 levels by 2030, with
    strong efforts toward achieving a 50% reduction, a significant
    acceleration from its existing 26% reduction goal.
-   Canada will strengthen its NDC to a 40-45% reduction from 2005
    levels by 2030, a significant increase over its previous target to
    reduce emissions 30% below 2005 levels by 2030.
-   India reiterated its target of 450 GW of renewable energy by 2030
    and announced the launch of the “U.S.-India 2030 Climate and Clean
    Energy Agenda 2030 Partnership” to mobilize finance and speed clean
    energy innovation and deployment this decade.
-   Argentina will strengthen its NDC, deploy more renewables, reduce
    methane emissions, and end illegal deforestation.
-   The United Kingdom will embed in law a 78% GHG reduction below 1990
    levels by 2035.
-   The European Union is putting into law a target of reducing net
    greenhouse gas emissions by at least 55% by 2030 and a net zero
    target by 2050.
-   The Republic of Korea, which will host the 2021 P4G Seoul Summit in
    May, will terminate public overseas coal finance and strengthen its
    NDC this year to be consistent with its 2050 net zero goal.
-   China indicated that it will join the Kigali Amendment, strengthen
    the control of non-CO2 greenhouse gases, strictly control coal-fired
    power generation projects, and phase down coal consumption.
-   Brazil committed to achieve net zero by 2050, end illegal
    deforestation by 2030, and double funding for deforestation
    enforcement.
-   South Africa announced that it intends to strengthen its NDC and
    shift its intended emissions peak year ten years earlier to 2025.
-   Russia noted the importance of carbon capture and storage from all
    sources, as well as atmospheric carbon removals. It also highlighted
    the importance of methane and called for international collaboration
    to address this powerful greenhouse gas.

Session 2 (“**Investing in Climate Solutions**”) addressed the urgent
need to scale up climate finance, including both efforts to increase
public finance for mitigation and adaptation in developing countries and
efforts to catalyze trillions of dollars of private investment to
support the transition to net zero emissions no later than
2050. President Biden stressed the importance of developed countries
meeting the collective goal of mobilizing $100 billion per year in
public and private finance to support developing countries. He also
announced that the Administration intends to seek funding to double, by
2024, annual U.S. public climate finance to developing countries,
compared to the average level of the second half of the Obama-Biden
Administration (FY 2013-2016). This would include tripling public
finance for adaptation by 2024. President Biden also called for an end
to fossil fuel subsidies and announced that his Administration will
undertake a series of steps to promote the measurement, disclosure, and
mitigation of material climate risks to the financial system.

Treasury Secretary Yellen highlighted the role of multilateral
development banks in supporting the transition. She also said that the
Treasury Department will use all its tools and expertise to help support
climate action. Special Envoy Kerry moderated a discussion among leaders
from government, international organizations, and multilateral and
private financial institutions. These leaders noted the importance of
concessional finance to leverage much larger sums of private capital, as
well as to provide finance to technologies, activities, and geographies
where private capital is not flowing. They noted the urgent need to
increase finance for adaptation and resilience in developing countries.
The participants also recognized the need for governments to embrace key
policies, including meaningful carbon pricing, enhanced disclosure of
climate-related risks, and phasing out fossil fuel subsidies. Several of
the private financial institutions expressed their support for
coalitions such as the Glasgow Financial Alliance for Net Zero and the
Net Zero Banking Alliance. They also referred to recent commitments by
U.S. banks to invest $4.16 trillion in climate solutions over the next
ten years.

Session 3 elevated four specific topics for more focused consideration
by government officials and, in some cases, a broader range of
stakeholders. 

-   The discussion on **climate action at all levels**, hosted by U.S.
    EPA Administrator Regan and including participation from a wide
    range of governors, mayors, and indigenous leaders from around the
    world, illustrated the importance of marshalling a multi-level
    “all-of-society” approach to climate action. The Session showcased
    States, cities, and indigenous groups that are committed to an
    equitable vision for advancing bold climate ambition and building
    resilience on the ground. Participants discussed the critical
    importance of building just and inclusive societies and economies as
    they accelerate efforts to transform their communities in line with
    limiting warming to 1.5 degrees Celsius. Participants discussed not
    only the importance of leadership at all levels of society and
    government, but also the importance of collaboration between
    national and subnational governments to catalyze additional
    ambition.
-   The discussion on **adaptation and resilience,** hosted by Secretary
    of Agriculture Vilsack and Secretary of Homeland Security Mayorkas,
    focused on innovative ways in which countries from a wide variety of
    regions are responding to climate change in the areas of water and
    coastal management, food security, and human impacts. On the theme
    of coastal and water management, panelists offered up innovative
    solutions to prepare for water-related climate challenges, such as
    locally-owned disaster insurance instruments, relocation, and the
    use of green and blue bonds to finance nature-based solutions.
    Focusing on food security and climate, participants highlighted the
    need for better technology to address a changing agricultural
    landscape as well as the importance of supporting small-scale
    farmers. On human health and security, the discussion centered on
    scaling up locally-led solutions to climate vulnerability,
    emphasizing that economic opportunities are key to keeping
    communities healthy and stable. The session emphasized that
    adaptation and mitigation go hand in hand.   
-   The discussion on **nature-based solutions**, hosted by Interior
    Secretary Haaland, addressed how achieving net zero by 2050 is not
    possible without natural climate solutions, such as stopping
    deforestation and the loss of wetlands and restoring marine and
    terrestrial ecosystems. She announced U.S. support of a proposal to
    protect the Southern Ocean through the three marine protected area
    proposals under the Convention for the Conservation of Antarctic
    Marine Living Resources (CCAMLR). All participants highlighted their
    support for protecting and conserving land and marine areas to
    sequester carbon and build climate resilience, and several made
    announcements. Seychelles is dedicating a chapter of its enhanced
    NDC to ocean-based solutions and is committing to protect at least
    50% of its seagrass and mangrove ecosystems by 2025 and 100% by
    2030, with support. Canada, for its part, is committing $4 billion
    in its new federal budget for land and ocean protection. In
    addition, Costa Rica underlined its co-leadership of the
    High-Ambition Coalition for Nature and People and the intention to
    have 30% of its ocean under protection by 2022; Peru highlighted
    that more than a fifth of its NDC measures are associated with
    nature-based solutions; Indonesia discussed its Presidential decree
    to permanently freeze new license for logging and peatland
    utilization, as well as its mangrove rehabilitation program; and
    Gabon noted that its intact and logged forests absorb four times
    more CO2 annually than its total emissions across all sectors.
    Representatives of the Global Alliance of Territorial Communities
    and of the Kharia Tribe of India highlighted the need to recognize
    the contributions and traditional knowledge of local and indigenous
    communities in ecosystem protection.

<!-- -->

-   The discussion on **climate security** was hosted by Defense
    Secretary Austin. His remarks were followed by remarks from both
    Director of National Intelligence Haines and U.S. Ambassador to the
    United Nations Thomas-Greenfield, who then moderated a panel
    discussion. Speakers included NATO Secretary General Stoltenberg,
    defense officials from Iraq, Japan, Kenya, Spain, and the UK, as
    well as the Philippines’ finance minister. A common theme throughout
    the discussion was how climate impacts exacerbate security concerns
    and, as a result, affect military capabilities, heighten
    geopolitical competition, undermine stability, and provoke regional
    conflicts. Participants further emphasized that their nations and
    regions are vulnerable to extreme weather events, including sea
    level rise, cyclones, typhoons, drought, and increasing
    temperatures. All of these intensify underlying political, social,
    and economic conditions, which in turn can lead to food insecurity
    and water scarcity, violent extremism, and mass population movement,
    with disproportionate effects on vulnerable populations, especially
    women. Defense officials noted that their ministries are
    increasingly called upon to respond to disasters, which taxes their
    resources, thus elevating the need for enhanced disaster
    preparedness and response. In looking at their own operations and
    readiness, they showcased current efforts to decrease their
    militaries’ emissions, emphasizing how incorporating climate
    considerations into their operational planning can increase the
    agility of their forces. Additionally, they described the benefits
    of collaboration between defense ministries on shared climate risks.
    Participants highlighted the NATO climate security action plan and
    called on countries to incorporate climate considerations more
    broadly into multilateral fora, including UN peacekeeping
    missions. Perhaps most noteworthy, this was the first-ever U.S.
    Secretary of Defense convening of Secretaries of Defense focused on
    climate change.

**Session 4 (“Unleashing Climate Innovation”) **explored the critical
innovations needed to speed net-zero transitions around the world and
highlighted the efforts of governments, the private sector, and civil
society in bringing new and improved technologies to market. Energy
Secretary Granholm and Commerce Secretary Raimondo emphasized
the economic rewards from investing in innovation as multi-trillion
dollar markets for clean technologies emerge in the coming decades and
announced reinvigorated U.S. international leadership on innovation. The
discussion underscored the urgent need for innovation: 45% of the
emissions reductions needed for a swift net-zero transition must come
from technologies that are not commercially available, according to
the Executive Director of the International Energy Agency, and Bill
Gates urged investment to drive down “green premium” prices of most
zero-carbon technologies compared with fossil fuel alternatives.
Several leading countries — Denmark, the United Arab Emirates, Israel,
Kenya, Norway, and Singapore — described their approaches to investing
in mitigation and adaptation technologies. These included clean fuels
such as hydrogen, renewables such as offshore wind and
geothermal energy, energy storage, clean desalination, carbon capture,
advanced mobility, sustainable urban design, and monitoring technologies
to verify emissions and stop deforestation. Leaders from the private
sector, including from GE Renewables, Vattenfall, and X, as well as
from the Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, focused on training the
diverse innovators of the future and investing in technologies
for digitalized, electrified, decarbonized, and resilient energy
systems. Special Envoy Kerry closed by emphasizing that raising our
innovation ambition enables us to raise the world’s climate ambition. 

Several speakers made announcements during this Session:
Denmark announced a technology mission under Mission Innovation to
decarbonize the global shipping sector, in collaboration with the United
States, and that it will build the world’s first energy islands to
produce clean fuels and supply power to Europe. The United Arab Emirates
launched the Agriculture Innovation Mission for Climate in partnership
with the United States, Australia, Brazil, Denmark, Israel, Singapore,
and Uruguay. Bill Gates launched the Breakthrough Energy Catalyst to
drive public, private, and philanthropic capital to scale up critical
emerging technologies. Rensselaer Polytechnic
Institute announced the Institute for Energy, the Built Environment, and
Smart Systems to decarbonize urban systems. GE Renewable Energy
announced that the GE Foundation is committing up to $100 million to
increase the diversity of the next generation of engineers. And
X, Alphabet’s Moonshot Factory, announced a Moonshot for the electric
grid. 

President Biden began Session 5 (“**The Economic Opportunities of
Climate Action”**)** **by recognizing the opportunity that ambitious
climate action presents to countries around the world to create good,
high quality jobs. He noted that countries that prioritize policies that
promote renewable energy deployment, electric vehicle manufacturing,
methane abatement, and building retrofits, among other actions,
would likely reap the rewards of job growth and economic prosperity in
the years ahead. The U.S. Trade Representative, Ambassador
Tai, Transportation Secretary Buttigieg, and National Climate Advisor
McCarthy underscored that the climate agenda could be a race to the top
for countries that are pursuing the most ambitious methods to tackle the
crisis, noting the American Jobs Plan that President Biden has
proposed. 

Participants echoed this vision and elaborated their own projects and
programs to maximize the economic benefits of their climate
actions. Leaders of countries recognized that the economic recovery from
the COVID-19 pandemic presents an opportunity for countries to build
back better and invest in the industries of the future. Community,
tribal, private sector, and labor leaders also weighed in on the
opportunities that decarbonization provided. Panelists noted that
climate action presents economic opportunities to all parts of society,
from energy workers to vehicle manufacturers, from large businesses to
small. In particular, there was general alignment among both country
representatives and other participants that governments should promote
equitable opportunities for workers and that labor unions can play a key
role in promoting high quality employment opportunities for people
around the world. To that end, Poland announced that they had just
concluded negotiations with coal mine labor unions to ensure a just
transition of workers as part of their coal-fired power phasedown. In
response to the discussion, President Biden closed by emphasizing that
climate action might represent the largest economic opportunity of this
century and urging leaders to stay focused.

In between the five Sessions, several **other speakers** provided
important perspectives. Youth speaker Xiye Bastida, declaring that
climate justice is social justice, underlined that youth need to be a
part of decision-making processes and called for a stop to fossil fuel
subsidies and extraction. Current and future Conference of Parties
Presidents Minister Carolina Schmidt (Chile) and MP Alok Sharma (UK)
discussed the urgency of achieving net-zero emissions by 2050. Minister
Schmidt noted that COP25 included, for the first time, a mandate to
address the ocean-climate nexus, while MP Sharma noted that we must put
the world on a path to achieve net-zero emissions by 2050 through
long-term targets and aligned NDCs, as well as immediate action, such as
phasing out coal. Pope Francis, who has been a climate leader for many
years, underlined the need to “care for nature so that nature may care
for us.” Chair Mallory of the White House Council on Environmental
Quality highlighted the Biden Administration’s commitment to
environmental justice and introduced Peggy Shepard, Co-Chair of the
White House Environmental Justice Advisory Council; she underlined the
need to build back better to lift up the communities struggling with
climate impacts and environmental injustice. Michael Bloomberg, UN
Special Envoy on Climate Ambition and Solutions, noted the key role of
cities and businesses in tackling the climate crisis.

Alongside the Summit, Special Envoy Kerry hosted two **Ministerial
Roundtables** to provide a broader group of countries an opportunity to
contribute to the discussions. He heard from representatives of more
than 60 countries from all over the world, reflecting a wide range of
regions, geographic features, and national circumstances, and summarized
their input for leaders on the second day of the Summit. Many Roundtable
participants expressed concern about the inadequacy of global climate
action to date and/or shared the unprecedented climate impacts they are
experiencing. At the same time, participants enthusiastically reported
on the significant, exciting efforts they are undertaking to confront
the climate crisis, even while facing the global pandemic. Beyond many
commitments to net zero emissions, enhanced NDCs, and innovative
adaptation efforts, participants included a carbon-negative country,
countries that have successfully decoupled economic growth from carbon
emissions, leaders in carbon storage, countries with extensive forest
cover, issuers of green bonds, and countries focusing on
gender-responsive approaches and the participation of indigenous
communities. It was notable that many of those passionately embracing
climate solutions contribute far less than 1% of global emissions. The
Roundtables contributed to the Summit’s sense of urgency as countries
rally around increased ambition on the road to Glasgow.

Roundtable participants represented: Afghanistan, Andorra, Angola,
Armenia, Austria, Bahrain, Belgium, Cabo Verde, Cambodia, Croatia,
Cyprus, Czech Republic, Ecuador, Estonia, Federated States of
Micronesia, Finland, Georgia, Greece, Grenada, Guatemala, Guyana,
Honduras, Hungary, Iceland, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kosovo, Latvia, Libya,
Lithuania, Luxembourg, Madagascar, Maldives, Mali, Malta, Mauritania,
Monaco, Mongolia, Montenegro, Nepal, North Macedonia, Oman, Panama,
Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, Republic of Congo, Romania, Senegal,
Slovakia, Slovenia, Sri Lanka, St. Kitts and Nevis, Suriname, Sweden,
Switzerland, Tanzania, The Bahamas, Turkmenistan, Ukraine, Uruguay,
Uzbekistan, Vanuatu, and Zambia. A list of new climate-related
initiatives announced by the United States at or around the Summit can
be found in this [Fact
Sheet](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/04/23/fact-sheet-president-bidens-leaders-summit-on-climate/).

\###
