---
tags: statements-releases
date: '2021-04-02'
modified_time: 2021-04-02 17:31:41-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/04/02/president-biden-announces-his-intent-to-nominate-key-members-for-the-department-of-defense/
published_time: 2021-04-02 17:31:40-04:00
title: "President\_Biden Announces his Intent to Nominate Key Members for the Department\
  \ of\_Defense"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Joe Biden announced his intent to nominate
Ronald Moultrie for Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence &
Security, Michael J. McCord for Under Secretary of Defense
(Comptroller), and Michael Brown for Under Secretary of Defense for
Acquisition & Sustainment.

**<u>Ronald Moultrie, Nominee for Under Secretary of Defense for
Intelligence & Security</u>**

Ronald S. Moultrie served on the Biden-Harris Presidential Transition
Team focused on national security. He is the President and CEO of
Oceanus Security Strategies (OSS), LLC. Moultrie retired as the National
Security Agency’s (NSA) Director of Operations. Moultrie also served in
the Office of the Director of National Intelligence (ODNI), was a member
of Central Intelligence Agency’s (CIA) Senior Intelligence Service
(SIS), and in the U.S. Air Force. Moultrie was a key principal on the
Secretary of the Navy’s Cybersecurity Readiness Review and subsequently
led the creation of the Department’s digital roadmap focused on
cybersecurity, data, and emerging technologies such as AI, 5G, and
Quantum computing.

Moultrie’s numerous awards include the Presidential Rank Award, two
Department of the Navy Distinguished Civilian Service Awards, the
National Intelligence Distinguished Service Medal, the National
Intelligence Superior Service Medal, the CIA National Clandestine
Service’s Donovan Award, the National Reconnaissance Office’s Gold
Medal, and three NSA Exceptional Civilian Service Awards. Moultrie
earned a Masters of Science degree from the National Intelligence
University, and a Bachelors degree from the University of Maryland,
magna cum laude.

**<u>Michael J. McCord, Nominee for Under Secretary of Defense
(Comptroller)</u>**

Mike McCord previously served as Under Secretary of Defense
(Comptroller) and Chief Financial Officer in the Obama-Biden
administration, where he led the Department’s Recovery Act program and
the resourcing of the Ebola response in 2014, and was awarded the
Department of Defense Medal for Distinguished Public Service by four
Secretaries of Defense. Prior to his service as Comptroller and Deputy
Comptroller of the Department of Defense, he served for over two decades
on the staff of the Senate Armed Services Committee, and with the House
Budget Committee and the Congressional Budget Office.

McCord is currently Director of Civil-Military Programs at the Stennis
Center for Public Service, an adjunct research staff member at the
Institute for Defense Analyses, a Trustee of The Aerospace Corporation,
and a Fellow of the National Academy of Public Administration.  He also
served on the Biden-Harris Defense Agency Review Team and as a member of
the Commission on the National Defense Strategy for the United States.
He earned a B.A. degree with honors from the Ohio State University and a
M.A. from the University of Pennsylvania.

**<u>Michael Brown, Nominee for Under Secretary of Defense for
Acquisition & Sustainment</u>**

Michael Brown served as the Director of the Defense Innovation Unit
(DIU) at the U.S. Department of Defense since 2018.  Since 2018, DIU
doubled the number of projects underway, transitioned 26 new
capabilities to warfighters, doubled company participation in projects
and introduced 70 first-time vendors to the Defense Department. From
2016 to 2018, Brown served as a White House Presidential Innovation
Fellow at the Defense Department.  He is the co-author of a Pentagon
study on China’s participation in the U.S. venture ecosystem, a catalyst
for the Foreign Risk Review Modernization Act (FIRRMA) providing
expanded jurisdiction to the Committee on Foreign Investment in the U.S.
(CFIUS).  Additionally, he led efforts at the Defense Department to
create National Security Innovation Capital (NSIC) aimed at catalyzing
private investment in dual-use hardware companies to diversify the
supply chain with U.S. technology. Prior to Brown’s government service,
he was the CEO of two public Silicon Valley technology leaders—Symantec,
the largest cybersecurity firm at that time and Quantum, the largest
global supplier of tape drives and of disk drives for personal
computers.

He is a Trustee of the Berklee College of Music and previously served on
the President’s Advisory Council at Berklee.  He is a member of the
Council on Foreign Relations and last year co-authored a paper for the
Brookings Institute on the technology competition with China, Preparing
the United States for the Superpower Marathon.  He received his BA
degree in economics from Harvard University and his MBA degree from
Stanford University.

\###
