---
date: '2022-10-27'
published_time: 2022-10-27 17:38:24-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2022/10/27/press-gaggle-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-en-route-syracuse-ny/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Gaggle by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre En Route Syracuse,\_NY"
---
 
Aboard Air Force One  
En Route Syracuse, New York

1:41 P.M. EDT

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: All right. Hello, hello. Okay, so we’re on our way, as
you know, to Syracuse, New York, where Micron has pledged to invest $100
billion over the next 20 years to build factories that make
semiconductors in Syracuse.

Against this — this backdrop, the President will deliver remarks that
contrast his vision for the economy with that of congressional
Republicans, who want to raise costs for working people and put Medicare
and Social Security on the chopping block.

While the President highlights the manufacturing resurgence spurred by
the CHIPS and Science Act, the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, and the
Inflation Reduction Act, he’ll call out Republicans for their five-part
plan to increase inflation and costs for American families.

The Republican plan includes $3 trillion in tax cuts skewed to the
wealthy, which would add to the deficit and make inflation worse;
raising prescription drug costs for millions of seniors; increasing
health insurance premiums; increasing energy bills in 2023 and beyond;
increasing student loan payments.

The President will be joined in Syracuse by New York Governor Kathy
Hochul, Senator Majority Leader Chuck Schumer, Senator Kirsten
Gillibrand, and Congressman John Katko.

And I have a week ahead for all of you to preview. Tomorrow, the
President will be working from Wilmington. In the evening, the President
and the Vice President will travel to Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, where
they will participate in a reception for the Pennsylvania Democratic
Party.

On Monday, the President will travel to New York City for a memorial
service. In the afternoon, he will return to Washington, D.C., where he
and the First Lady will welcome children to the South Lawn for the first
in-person Halloween celebration at the White House since the beginning
of the pandemic.

On Tuesday, the President will travel to Fort Lauderdale, Florida. The
President will participate in a reception for gubernatorial candidate
Christ — Charlie Christ. After, the President will travel to South
Florida and participate in a rally for the Democrat — Democratic
National Committee, along with Charlie Christ and Congresswoman Val
Demings.

On Wednesday morning, the President will deliver remarks on
infrastructure in Washington, D.C.

On Thursday, the President will travel to New Mexico. And we will have
more details on the President’s schedule later — later in the week.

With that — I think that’s all I have, folks — you want to kick us off,
Seung Min?

Q Does the White House have a comment on the Office — Office of Special
Counsel’s finding that Ron Klain violated the Hatch Act?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I do. So, Ron is — is very careful and takes the Hatch
Act very seriously in his media appearances and his use of Twitter. But
he got it wrong this time, and he retweeted something that was
political. He fixed it as soon as it was pointed out, and — and take the
warning to be more — more careful seriously.

That’s very different than the prior crew here — crew, clearly, at the
White House, before us, previously, that blatantly, openly, and
carelessly violated the Hatch Act repeatedly.

We are not perfect, but our violations have been few.

Q And one quick foreign policy question. Overnight, President Xi had
some sort of — had a sort of conciliatory — conciliatory tone — said the
U.S. and China should find ways to work together, get along.

And I’m wondering if the White House thinks that, now that he’s through
his — the CCP Congress, he’s extended his presidency, that it could be a
new phase — perhaps conversations between the U.S. and China could be
more productive now that its internal politics or out of the way.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Look, you know, we’ve always been very clear. Our
approach with China has always been one of not escalation, clearly, but
of competition.

And that remains — that remains to be true. That’s why, again, why they
— the CHIPS and Science Act is so important. It allows us to be
competitive. That’s why the bipartisan infrastructure legislation is so
important, because it allows us as a — as a country, as a nation to be
competitive by fixing our infrastructure.

And so, we’ve always been very clear on that. And that hasn’t changed.
As you know, the President and — President Biden and President Xi have
had multiple conversations over the last 20 months that we have read out
to all of you.

Outside of that, I don’t have anything else to add to what we’ve already
laid out with that relationship.

Q Karine, just to stay with foreign policy, Putin just said that he’s
willing to restart a dialogue with the United States to discuss
strategic stability. And we’re wondering, firstly, if the United States
is interested in having such a dialogue and how viable a concept is
having such a dialogue at this stage of the war.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, I’m going just keep it very, very simple here, in
regards to commenting on the speech — Putin’s speech.

So it wasn’t at all that new, and it doesn’t indicate that Putin’s
strategic goals have changed here. That’s our view.

He doesn’t want Ukraine to exist as a sovereign independent
nation-state. That is clear by just his action of an unprovoked war in
Ukraine.

And our approach remains the same: continue supporting Ukraine with —
with countries around the world as Russia wages this — its brutal war.

Q And one more. You know, earlier today, a senior Russian government
official said that Moscow would be willing to shoot down Western
satellites. I know John Kirby said earlier that the U.S. would respond
if there was such an action taken by Russia. What would that response
really look like? Would that be a joint response with NATO?

And, I mean, if — if the West were to respond to such an action by
Russia, would that sort of inevitably start a conflict? I mean, how
should we view that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, I’m just not going to speculate from here.

But what — what we will say is that any attack on U.S. infrastructure
will be met with a response, as you’ve heard from my colleague, in a
time and manner of our choosing. And that still stands.

We will pursue all means to explore, deter, and hold Russia accountable
for any such attacks. Clearly, I’m not going to lay them down here in
front of — in public. But we have made ourselves very clear.

Q Karine, there was data today that showed mortgage rates were at a
20-year high — highest since 2002. Does the good economic data — growth
data this morning make the White House any more wary of rate hikes by
the Fed going forward, given how high mortgage rates have gone now?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, as you know, we see the Fed as independent. So
we’re not going to comment from here on the Federal Reserve’s rate
hikes.

But today, you know, we — the way that we see it, and you saw this from
the President’s statement, we got more evidence that our economic
recovery is powering forward, which is incredibly important.

That’s a testament to the resilience of the American people, which we
understand, you know, that they are — are feeling the squeeze right now.
But the economy is in a — is moving forward.

And in the third quarter, the American economy is growing. Americans’
incomes were up, and price increase — increases came down. That is
important to highlight. And — and so, I’ll — you know, I’ll just leave
it there.

Go ahead.

Q And the contrast that the President is laying out in Syracuse today,
most of what he’s saying are things that Republicans would do if they
gain control of Congress and they pass these. Wouldn’t the President
just veto all of these items? Like what is the actual threat of these
economic plans that the President will warn against taking effect?
Wouldn’t he just veto them if they passed them?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: What — so, what the President has been trying to do and
has been doing — using a very large bully pulpit, as you know — is
laying out the choice — the choice in front of the American public
today.

And it matters. It matters for the American public to hear not just what
we have done and laid out — you’ve heard the President talk about
student loans, economic recovery. You’ve heard him talk about abortion
rights — all of the things that he believes matter — issues that impact
American people.

But at the same time, he wants to also lay out what — what the
congressional Republicans are saying that they’re going to do. It
matters that they are saying — we have congressional senators saying
that they want to put Medicare and Social Security on the chopping
block.

I mean, those are two things that are incredibly popular to the American
people. But that is their plan. It is important to lay out that when —
when and if — if this happens — right? — if they are — if they were to
have the majority — this is — clearly, that’s what they’re going for —
that they would — they would get rid of the Inflation Reduction Act.

That matters. Inflation Reduction Act lowers healthcare costs, it lowers
energy costs. And if they were to do that, it would — it would hurt
inflation, it would hurt our economy.

And they’ve also said that if they don’t get Medicare and Social
Security on the chopping block that they would hold our debt hostage,
which would spiral the economy into a downward tor- — turn.

And so these are the things that are very important for the American
people to understand what’s at stake. And that’s why you hear the
President talk about it. And that is the plan of the congressional
Republicans is to actually make the economy worse, not better.

Go ahead.

Q On student loans, have you seen a slowdown in the number of
applications coming in since the court order on Friday that could point
to some confusion amongst borrowers over what it means?

And last we heard was 22 million. Do you have an update on that number?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I don’t have an update to share. From what we have seen
— like a direct number to share — from what we have seen over the last
couple of days, as you — as you have heard us talk about since last
Friday, which is an amazing reaction to — to the stod- — the President’s
student loan pos- — student loan program, pardon me.

And that says a lot. That says that the American people really, truly
need a little bit of a breathing room. That means that this program is
incredibly popular with the American people. And so, again, we’ve seen
an uptick; I don’t have an exact number to share.

But, again, I want to make very clear that the reason that the President
did this, the reason that the President put forth this policy is: At a
time when people are dealing with a pandemic and at the time that he’s —
as you know, late this year, he’s going to lift the pause, he wanted to
make sure that the American people, as he says, has a little bit of a
breathing room.

Ninety percent of borrowers who are going to be part of — of a — be a
part of this policy and getting this relief are making less than $75,000
a year. That matters for many Americans across the country — almost 40
million.

All right, go.

Q A couple of times yesterday, the President mentioned the statistic:
$55 billion that the oil and gas companies have made in the second
quarter. He said it was “outrageous.” He said it was “not fair.” I was
wondering: Does the President plan to do anything about that? Does he
plan to talk to these oil and gas companies directly? He did say that he
believed the oil — oil prices and gas prices will be going down. So what
is the President going to do about the profits that the oil and gas
companies are making?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: You know, let me just say this: We’ve always been very
clear that — that American — American families should — should not be
the first to pay and the last to benefit at the pump. Energy companies
are often quick to raise gas prices when the price of oil goes up, but
slow to bring the price of gas down when the price of oil drops.

We’re — we’re seeing that again now with profit margins on a gallon of
gas at the pump well above the typical levels. The President believes
that it is unacceptable. And we’ll continue to call on the — on energy
companies to treat consumers fa- — consumers fairly. As you know, the
Department of Energy has been in regular contact and have held meetings
with these — with these different companies, and they’ll continue to
have those conversations. Members of our team at the White House have
also been in close contact.

But I think — you know, I said this the other day — when the President
uses his bully pulpit, that matters. That does send a very powerful
message — a direct message — and to this case, to the oil companies.

Q Karine, to follow on oil a little bit. Yesterday, you, Kirby,
Secretary Blinken all sort of recast the question about Saudi Arabia as
— the 80-year relationship between the U.S. and Saudi. And sort of — I
think it was a much more positive spin about Saudi Arabia than we had
heard a week or two before when you talked a lot about “reevaluating the
relationship.”

(Air Force One experiences turbulence.)

As we bump down here. Is there — (laughter) —

Is there — has there been any developments behind the scenes that have
sort of fueled that tonal shift in how you guys are addressing things?
Is it that gas prices didn’t in fact elevate after the OPEC decision
that has caused you guys to sort of — I think John said yesterday that
you’re in no rush to implement the revaluation of the relationship.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I mean, look, you know, I’m going to step back for a
second. When the President first, you know, walked into the — walked
into the White House — he had said very early on, I should say, in his
days at the White House, he had said that this was a relationship — the
Saudi Arabia relationship — needed to be evaluated. But he wanted to
make sure it was done in a bipartisan way, as it’s been the past more
than 80 years.

So that hasn’t changed. We’ve all — he’s always has been very clear on
that.

Look, I know you’re talking about what — when we said we were
appreciative of the Saudi Arabians giving $40 million to Ukraine in
assistance. And that is something important. That’s something that many
of our allies in the West and our partners want to see happen — that we
all come together to make sure that we help Ukraine fight for their
democracy.

So we’re always going to lift that up. But at the same time, we’re going
to be also very clear on issues that matter to the American people,
which was the OPEC decision that was made. And as you know, the Saudi
Arabia — Arabia is leading that.

Q And just — because you mentioned —

WHITE HOUSE AIDE: Sorry, guys. We’re going to have to sit down for
landing.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Okay. Okay.

Q Thank you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: All right, thanks, guys.

1:56 P.M. EDT
