---
date: '2022-10-19'
published_time: 2022-10-19 18:49:46-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2022/10/19/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-october-19-2022/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre, October 19,\_2022"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

2:17 P.M. EDT    
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  Good afternoon, everybody.  
  
Q    Good afternoon.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, nice.  Okay.  All right, as you just heard, today
President Biden is taking further action to lower gas prices and promote
energy security.  When Putin’s war sent gas prices up, President Biden
made clear he would do everything in his power to lower prices for
American families.   
  
And he’s been delivering.  Gas prices fell at the fastest rate in over a
decade this summer.  They’ve dropped almost every week since June and
are down by $1.16 per gallon on average.   
  
Now President Biden announced additional actions to strengthen energy
security, address the supply chain, and lower costs.  He is releasing 15
million barrels of oil from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve to be
delivered in December.  He is directing the Department of Energy to be
ready to move forward with additional releases of oil this winter if
needed.  And he announced that the administration intends to repurchase
oil for the SPR when prices are around $70 per <s>gallon</s>
\[barrel\].  
  
He’s also calling on oil and gas companies to pass on their savings to
consumers at the pump.  Right now, right behind me, you see this charg-
— chart.  The profit that energy companies are making in every gallon of
gas is — gasoline — is about double what it typically is at this time of
year.  And you see that, between the crude oil and the retail gasoline
prices there in the lines.   
  
The retailer margin over the refinery price is more than 40 percent over
the typical level.  These outsized industry profit margins are adding
more than 60 cents to the average price of gallon of gas and keeping
prices higher than they should be.  This is unacceptable.  
  
Lastly, as you know, in a few minutes, the President is going to be
making another announcement, a new — new actions to boost electric
vehicle battery production and ensure that we have the critical minerals
we need to keep building — building them right here in America.   
  
The President’s economic agenda has generated an American electric
vehicle manufacturing boom.  Today’s announcement will further that
progress.  Through the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, the Department of
Energy will award $2.8 billion in grants to expand domestic
manufacturing of batteries for electric vehicles and the electric
grid.   
  
The President will also announce the American Battery Material
Initiative, a new effort to mobilize the entire government in securing a
reliable and sustainable supply of electric minerals used for power,
electricity, and EVs.   
  
The President will be joined at today’s announcement by Energy Secretary
Granholm and executives from leading battery companies.

With that — Josh, welcome back.  I feel like I haven’t seen you in a
while.   
  
Q    Thank you.  I know.  Well —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, my goodness.  
  
Q    I think last time was Air Force One on the way to Hagerstown.  Too
— too brief.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  That’s an eternity ago.  
  
Q    What a trip.  (Laughter.)  
  
Q    So, two questions.  The President just said that the oil releases
from the Strategic Reserve were not political.  But we’ve seen on a
daily basis that the administration is making these announcements on
abortion, gas prices, EVs, student debt, and an array of other programs,
such as infrastructure.  What’s the goal of these announcements, given
that they’re happening so close to midterms?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, and the President was asked specifically that —
that question on the gas prices and our announcement today, and he was
very clear.  He said — if you’ve watched him these last several months,
these last four months, I believe, that what — is what he said — he’s
been working every day to lower gas prices for the American people,
especially after we saw Putin’s brutal war in Ukraine, which led to
Putin’s price — price hike, as we have seen in the last several —
several months.   
  
So, he has made it very clear.  He wanted to make sure that we lower the
prices for the American people.  We have seen — we’ve seen independent
analys- — and analysts have said the actions that this President took —
this historic action that the President took has worked.  And so, he’s
going to continue to deliver.   
  
And when you — you’re asking me about the abortion and Roe.  Roe was
decided in June.  And because that happened and understanding — the
President understanding what that will mean for millions of women across
the country, he took action.  He took — he took executive action.  He is
going to continue to speak to it.  And he has been very clear that in
order to actually codify Roe, the American people have to make their
voices heard.   
  
And so, the President is not going to shy away from delivering for the
American people.  He’s not going to shy away from a record that you all
have seen for the past 20 months that is just that: an economic policy,
economic plans, economic legislation, and now laws that is working for
the middle class.   
  
Q    Gotcha.  And then, on the announcement today: A year ago, the
President said after the G20 that $3.35 a gallon hurt families.  When he
took office, gas was $2.40 a gallon.  What does the administration think
is a reasonable price for gasoline so that it could end withdrawals and
kind of allow the reserves to replenish?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, first of all, he’s taking this action — we know
that gas prices are going down, but they’re still too high.  And he
acknowledges that, and that’s why we’re continuing taking the work to
bring those prices down.  And that is the promise that he’s made the
American people.  
  
I know people have asked what is the sufficient — what is the sufficient
level — right? — in order to make that — to make — to be at a point
where we feel that the supply is where it needs to be.  
  
Look, the supply has to meet demand, right?  We just had this chart that
laid out what was the stark differences that we’re seeing with cost.  
  
When it’s 60 cents more, we are saying to oil companies, they need to
make sure that the — the profits that they’re making, that also the —
that everyday Americans feel — get that relief as well.   
  
And so, really, we’re trying to make sure that supply meets demand. 
That’s what the President is trying to do.  And he uses the Strategic
Petroleum Reserve, where he taps into it — as you know, which is a
historic decision — that’s what the Strategic Petroleum Reserves are
for.  They are for these moments, these global challenges, these global
market challenges that we’re seeing, because — in particular because of
this — of Putin’s war.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  The 15 million barrels of oil the President talked
about today, it’s — when you put that into context, Americans consume an
average of nearly 20 million barrels of oil a day.   
  
So, for the actual impact of this announcement, when can Americans
actually expect to see results of this when they’re filling up at the
gas station?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, today’s — today’s announcement is about responding
to the effects of Putin’s ongoing war.  And that’s why the President
took this action, because it’s still continuing.  Putin’s brutal war on
Ukraine is still ongoing, as I just said.  
  
It completes the release of the 180 million dol- — 180 million barrels
the President announced earlier this year.  And as you heard from the
President just now, he’s directing the Department of Energy to be ready
to release additional barrels of oil should conditions warrant it.   
  
And so, we’ve seen the impacts.  We’ve seen the impacts already.  Again,
and I just said this to Josh, we have seen independent analysts say that
the work or — the work that the President has taken when it comes to
this historic decision with the stroleum \[sic\] — the Strategic
Petroleum Reserve has — we have seen the effects.  We have seen gas
prices go down.   
  
So, again, the President is going to do everything that he can to make
sure that we — we make the lives of American families a little bit
easier.  
  
Q    But you couldn’t say a timeline of, you know, by saying this today
and happening in December, of when there’s actually an impact for
American consumers and pocketbooks, when people might feel this?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, again, we are already seeing the impact on
consumers.  But what the President is saying is that the prices are
already too high.  And so, we want to make sure that the supply out
there meets the demand, and that is not what’s happening.   
  
Q    And just one more, sorry.  On restocking the reserve when it hits
$70 a barrel, oil is trading at around $83 a barrel today.  What makes
the President confident you’ll be able to buy back oil at that level?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, the release of the oil from the Strategic
Petroleum Reserve was always meant to be a bridge, as you’ve heard us
say many times, to greater supply — so to make sure that we have that
supply out there.   
  
The pace of releases for October and November tapered off just a bit. 
But, again, we are — you know, we want to make sure that it matches,
that the supply matches the demand.   
  
So, we’re not saying that we’re go- — we’re trying to bring down the
price down to $70.  That’s not what we’re trying to say.  You heard the
President mention how it’s an incentive is what he’s trying to put
forward.   
  
So, what we’re saying is that if the — if it goes to $70, oil companies
should know that the United States government will come into the market
as a buyer.  And so, that will create more, certainly, for companies as
— as they weigh increasing investment.  We’re giving them further
incentive to increase production.   
  
Of course, you know, we <s>refrain</s> \[retain\] the flexibility to
replenish at any market price, but we wanted to clearly signal to
producers that we will continue the market — to support the market in
this price range.  
  
Q    Thank you, Karine.  To what extent does the White House and the
administration feel the announcement today will actually counter the
announcement we heard from OPEC and Saudi a few weeks ago to cut oil
output?  Do you expect it to partially offset that decision?  Do you
expect today’s announcement to completely offset that decision?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, what we’re trying to do — and we have said
this many times — is prices are too high, and we’re trying to make sure
that we lower those prices for gas — for the gas prices, even though we
have taken these actions these past several months with the Strategic
Petroleum Reserve.  
  
Again, with Putin’s ongoing war, the President wanted to make sure that
he completed the one- — 180 million barrels the President announced
earlier this year.  
  
And also, as you know, the — as he also said, the Department of Energy
is going to take actions as well.  
  
Look, it is very important that the President, he feels, gives American
families a little bit more breathing room and keeps to his promise that
he’s made for the past several months to do everything that he can in
his power to bring down gas prices for the American people.  
  
Q    Would you describe today’s action as a counter to the decision from
OPEC and Saudi a few weeks ago?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I would describe the President’s actions today as a
continuing — the continuation of his promise to the American families to
bring gas prices down.  He feels that they’re still too high, even
though we have seen them come down for 98 consecutive days, which is a
historic decline that we have not seen in over a decade.  And so, this
is, again, a continuation to his promise to the American people.  
  
Q    And a quick follow-up on the reserve refill that the President
spoke about at $70.  How long does the administration expect that to
take?  Any internal estimates, especially because there is a price gap
of $70 now set?  Are there any internal estimates on the timing that you
expect this to take?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have a timeline for you at this time.  Look,
the President, as he said in his remarks, that he sees this as an
incentive for oil companies.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Just on the President’s message to oil companies today that they
need to not prioritize profits at a moment when Americans are going
through such a hard time.  Just curious whether he has recently spoken
directly to any oil company executives to deliver that message.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, it’s a — it’s a good question.  I don’t have any
calls to read out to you.   
  
But, you know, I think when the President speaks at the podium and makes
those comments, which he has made many times, that is speaking directly
to the oil companies.  I’m pretty sure that they are — they are
listening and that they are hearing the President directly.  
  
Q    Just on the Pittsburgh event tomorrow and the grants that are being
officially announced on the ground tomorrow, can you give us a sense of
how these 12 states were chosen?  Were there other states that applied? 
You know, what was, sort of, the criteria used to choose these 12
states?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So I’ll get the team to provide you with what the
criterias were in selecting the 12 states.  I don’t have anything to
share at this time.  I’m sure the President will also share more
tomorrow in Pittsburgh.  
  
Q    And do you know if John Fetterman will be at the earlier Pittsburgh
event?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We’ll share more of where — where — who’s going to be
attending, as we always do, the various events when the President
travels.  I don’t have anything for you right now at this time.  But as
you know, John Fetterman will be with the President tomorrow.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Just to follow up on the gas, again, divert in a different
direction: When you say now that the petroleum reserve is here for this
reason, how long is this going to go on?  Should the oil industry,
should Americans presume that the reserve will be tapped for the
duration of the Russia-Ukraine war or until it hits a certain price
point?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, first — first, let — first, let me — let me say a
couple of things, because I think it’s important for the American people
to know.  
  
The Strategic Petroleum Reserve remains the largest strategic reserve in
the world.  There are more than 400 million barrels of oil in the
reserve.  So I want to make sure that folks understand that.   
  
And I — and, to my point, the Strategic Petroleum Reserve was created
for this time, for a moment just like this, when there is a supply
disruption that is — has been caused by Putin’s war.  This is why the
reserve exists.  
  
I mean, we have been very clear.  I don’t have anything more to announce
beyond the December extension that the President announced, beyond the
180 million barrels of oil that we have announced very much earlier this
year.   
  
And if we have — we’re going to continue to monitor and take a very
close look of what’s happening in the next several days, in the next
several months.  And when we have more to announce, certainly the
President will do that.  
  
Q    I got to ask you: There was a lawsuit filed today in a federal
court in San Francisco against the Biden adminis- — actually, against
the President and the National Archives for continuing to hold up the
release of 16,000 documents related to the assassination of John F.
Kennedy, alleging that the President is dragging his feet on the
release.  
  
He signed a memo saying it was supposed to be released in December of
this year.  Any response to the lawsuit?  And does the President still
plan to release — allow the release of those documents in December?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, as you know, we don’t respond to lawsuits from
here.  It is not my place to do so.  I can get more information on the —
the documents for you to see where it is in the process.  But I won’t be
responding to a lawsuit from here.  
  
Q    So you’re not aware of any plan to hold up the release of them in
December?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m not aware of that.  Again, I would have to check
in with the team to see where we are in that process.  
  
Q    Curious if the President himself has ever asked to see them.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Again, I — I don’t have anything to share on the
specific documents.  I would have to check in with the team.  
  
Q    And he’s doing this visit to Pennsylvania tomorrow, making one
campaign stop.  We heard again today that former President Obama is
headed to Nevada now in November, in addition to the stops he’s making
next week for Democratic candidates.   
  
There was no update on the President’s political schedule yesterday, the
day before.  Any chance there’s an update today?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We don’t have anything to share with you on the
President’s travel.  And we will be sure to share any upcoming trips
that the President may have in the upcoming days and weeks.  
  
Q    Still in the works, though?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Again, I just don’t have anything to preview at this
time.  We announced, as you know, he’s going to go to Florida on
November 1st.  And if there any other trips, you’ll — you will — you
will hear from us, Ed.  I promise you.  I promise you.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    How serious is the administration considering a ban on U.S.
petroleum products?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, everything is on the table.  I don’t have anything
right now to preview.  Clearly, our focus today is to make sure that we
deliver on the President’s promises to continue to lower gas prices for
the American people.  But again, I don’t have anything to preview at
this time.  
  
Q    And just on the G20: Has the administration locked in a meeting
with Chinese President Xi Jinping yet?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have a meeting or anything to preview for you
at this time with the — with the meeting with the President.  
  
Q    Hey, I have a foreign policy question.  But first, I wanted to
follow up on something the President said earlier.  He said that he’s
readying his team to look for other opportunities for further releases. 
Do you have a sense of what would spark a further release in the
future?  I know Europe is considering a ban on — or planning to
implement a ban on Russian oil imports.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, the President has asked his team to be on the
ready in case there needs to be any more releases.  Don’t have anything
else to preview.  Clearly, we’re going to be monitoring this the next
several weeks, the next several months.  And when we have more to
announce, we will — we will do so.  
  
Q    I wonder, also, if you can comment on the arrest of our — yeah — of
Saad Ibrahim Almadi.  His — in Saudi Arabia for sending tweets critical
of the government.  His son says he’s been tortured and has accused the
State Department of mishandling the case.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, we can confirm the detention of Mr.  Almadi in
Saudi Arabia and are closely following his case.  We have consistently
and intensively raised our concerns regarding this case at senior levels
of — of the Saudi government in both Washington and also in Saudi.  
  
We will continue to do so.  The Saudi government understands the
priority we attach — we attach to resolving this matter.  Exercising the
freedom of expression should never be criminalized.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks very much.  Back in 2020, when Congress was debating funding
for replenishing the SPR, Democrats blocked it, saying it was a bailout
for big oil.  Why is it a good deal for taxpayers now?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, right now we are dealing — again, I laid out
what the Strategic Petroleum was created for.  It was created for these
moments.  Right?  We’re seeing a supply disruption, right?  There is a
war currently happening in Ukraine that was started by Putin — a brutal
war.  And this is what these moments were for.   
  
When you see these global challenges — remember, this is a global
challenge.  This is not just happening here.  It is affecting the global
markets.  And so, this is an opportunity to do what we can to help
American families.  
  
Q    I was referring to the purchasing of the oil at $70 per barrel to
replenish it.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, I’m — (laughs) — I’m sorry, I thought you were
meaning like why would we tap.  
  
Q    No, no, no —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — I mean the replenishing at a lower price.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So can you say your question one more time, so I hear
it properly?  
  
Q    Yeah, back in 2020, when Congress was debating funding for
replenishing the SPR —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — at a low price, Democrats blocked it, saying that it was a
bailout for big oil.  But now President Biden said today —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So I —  
  
Q    — that it would be a good deal for the taxpayers.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, I know exactly what you’re talking about. 
You’re talking about when Donald Trump was trying to sell it at $20 per
— per barrel.  
  
Q    To buy it, I guess.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, to buy it.  Look, it was a different time then. 
It was not the same situation that we are currently in.  The reserve was
close to full capacity at that time.  And so, there was no reason to —
to — you know, to make that type of repurchase.  
  
Q    Yeah.  Earlier, you pointed out that this isn’t the first time that
President Biden has called out the profits of oil companies.  You know,
a couple months ago, it was talking about first quarter profits, now its
second quarter.  
  
And so, at this point, does the President feel like oil companies are
ignoring his calls on this issue — the fact that they’ve continued to
keep these profits?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, he — he doesn’t think so.  They actually — they
actually brought down the prices.  We have seen that in the past several
months, but they need to come down more.  And that’s what the President
is trying to make sure that continues to happen.   
  
And so, he is — again, he’s not going to shy away from it.  He wants to
make sure that — as we saw in the chart, they did come down.  They were
able to do that.  If you saw at the beginning of the chart, the prices
—  
  
Q    It dipped.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — it dipped.  And it met — it met what the retailers
were paying.   
  
And so, now we’re seeing the difference — that 60 cents difference.  And
so we want them to bring that — to bring that down to meet where
consumers are.  
  
Q    And then House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, in an interview posted today
by Punchbowl News, said that Democrats need to improve their messaging
when it comes to inflation over the next three weeks before the
midterms.  She calls inflation a “global issue” and points out — or
argues that because unemployment has decreased under Democrats and Biden
that inflation has gone up.   
  
And do you — what’s your response to the Speaker of the House saying
that there is a messaging issue, and that message is not getting out to
voters right now, as indicated by polling that shows that those who, you
know, have concern — voters that are concerned about the economy and
inflation are favoring Republicans over Democrats?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, first, let me just say, got to be mindful, because
of the Hatch Act, on when I speak about —  
  
Q    Sure, but I’m asking from —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — I cannot speak —  
  
Q    — the White House — yeah.    
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, I’m going to get there.  I’m going to get — give
me a second.  I have to lay this out.   
  
Q    Yeah.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Right.  It is my prerogative to say I don’t — want to
make sure that I adhere to the Hatch Act.  So that — I put that out
there.   
  
As it relates to messaging: Look, we have always been very clear, the
President has always been very clear.  We understand — I know you were
talking about polls and what the American people are feeling.  We
understand what they’re feeling.  We understand that they are feeling a
bit of a crunch, because of — of cost, because of inflation.   
  
And that’s why the President is doing what he’s doing today.  That’s why
he’s making it very clear that he’s taking extra actions to bring down
the cost — continue to bring down the cost of gasoline.   
  
You heard me talk about hearing aids.  Thirty million Americans are
going to see now lower cost in purchasing — in purchasing hearing
aids.   
  
When you think about the — the Inflation Reduction Act, it’s going to
lower costs.   
  
When you think about healthcare, when you think about energy costs —
these are actions that this President has taken.  These are action that
he’s taken with congressional Democrats, and we’re going to continue to
speak to that.  
  
But we get it.  We get that Americans right now are feeling that
pinch.   
  
But, you know, the other piece of this too is you have congressional
Republicans who were doing the opposite.  They don’t want to give the
healthcare costs.  They won’t bring down healthcare costs.  They don’t
want to bring down energy costs.   
  
If anything, they want to increase what Americans are paying with
healthcare and with energy.  And that’s their plan.  Their plan is to
get rid of Medicare.  Their plan is to get rid of Social Security.  And
our plan is to make sure that we are protecting American families, that
we are lowering costs, and we’re going to continue to push that message
and make sure that the American people hear directly from us.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you, Karine.  The football/soccer World Cup starts in a month
in Qatar.  How does the — how does the White House feel about the many
reports of human rights abuses in that country, particularly in the
preparation for this World Cup?   
  
And also, at what level will — from what level of government will
somebody be sent there as a — you know, as a representative?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, to your last question, first: We’re still
determining who will lead and join an official U.S. delegation to the
World Cup.  We look forward to this important event.  And, of course, we
will be cheering on Team USA from the White House.   
  
As you’ve heard from the President, he has said this directly himself,
he will always and will continue to call out any human rights abuses. 
That is something that he never shies away from, whether it is leader to
leader or whether it is speaking about it outright.  And so that will be
something that he will continue to do.  
  
Q    He wouldn’t call it out in the sense of sending them a message by
not sending a delegation or — you know, to watch, sitting in one of
these stadiums where supposedly, people were, you know, horribly
mistreated?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — I hear — I hear you — I answered the question as
to — he’s going to — you know, this is an important event, and we’re
going to cheer — be cheering on the team — Team USA.  It is not an
unusual thing for us to do when there is an event like this in whatever
country — whichever country it is.   
  
But again, when it comes to human rights, the President — human rights
abuses — the President will continue to call that out.  This event is
about our team — Team USA.  It’s about, again, a special event, and
we’re going to cheer them on.  
  
Q    Thank you, Karine.  You have condemned governors sending migrants
through various cities across the country.  But where should officials
that are overwhelmed by the number of migrants coming into their cities
and into their shelters — where should they send the migrants?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, we have said many times before there’s a process
— a legal process, and that we are willing to work with cities who are
dealing with this issue.   
  
What we have seen from governors is that they are using –using migrants
as a political tool.  And that’s not the way to do it.  And they’re
sending migrants — as we’ve seen the last several months — the last
several weeks, they’re sending migrants without letting city — city
officials know and without letting the federal government know.   
  
And what they do is they call TV news stations to be there to capture
this moment and use it as a political stunt.  And so, we are — we will
continue to call that out.  But we are willing — we are willing and open
to work with cities that are dealing with this issue, as we have done
with New York City, as we have done with Washington, D.C., and other —
and other cities as well.   
  
Q    But does President Biden want more migrants to come to Delaware?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t even understand that question.  But I’ll move
on.   
  
Go ahead.   
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  I’m wondering if you have a response to these
videos first published by the Tampa Bay Times this week that show people
in Florida who had been convicted of murder or sex offenses being
released from prison who apparently thought they had the right to vote
and have now been arrested for doing so.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, we have seen — we have seen those — those
videos.  We’ve seen that reporting by the publication that you just
mentioned.  I want to be careful because I don’t want to weigh — weigh
in on any specifics, ongoing cases in Florida.   
  
But the President believes that people who — who are not incarcerated
for a felony should have their voting rights restored automatically. 
And he has repeatedly called on the Senate to pass comprehensive voting
rights legislation that would do just that.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you, Karine.  Two questions on two different subject
matters.  First, high gas prices.  Has the President or the White House
ever consider summoning these oil and gas company executives here to the
White House so that President Biden can deliver some of the message that
he delivered earlier in the Roosevelt Room?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, as you know, the Department of Energy has had
several meetings, a couple of meetings with oil companies to have
conversations on what we can do to — to help in lowering prices and to
help with — with the issue that we just laid out today, and how, you
know, oil companies are not meeting or not lowering — they’re getting
the profits but not lowering their prices.  So we’ve had several
meetings.  We had White House officials who have also attended those
meetings as well.   
  
Don’t have anything else to preview or to add to that.  But we have been
in close touch with these oil companies.   
  
Q    Okay.  And also on Ukraine: As you know, there has been
bipartisanship in terms of supporting Ukraine financially and militarily
over the course of the past year, since February 24th.  Yesterday, the
Leader for Republicans in the House, Kevin McCarthy, said, if
Republicans take over the House, don’t expect a “blank check” — that’s
the way he put it — in terms of supporting Ukraine.  What’s your
response to that?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, as you know, the United States has provided
Ukraine with robu- — robust, bipartisan support as Russia wages this
brutal war, this unprovoked war on the people of Ukraine.  We will
continue to work with Congress, as we have these past several — several
months, on these efforts and support Ukraine as long as it takes.   
  
And that is a commitment that the President made to President Zelenskyy
just last week, when they had their one-on-one conversation, and also at
the G7 meeting with President Zelenskyy last week as well with our
partners and allies.   
  
Look, we thank leaders across the House and the Senate, Republicans and
Democrats, who are working with us to hold Putin accountable and support
Ukraine to defend itself from Russia’s crime and atrocities.   
  
And so, again, we will remain in close contact with House and — with
House and Senate members.  This is an important — we see this,
supporting Ukraine in their fight for democracy and their fight for
freedom, as an important moment in time.  
  
Q    So you expect bipartisanship regardless of who controls Congress,
as it —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We’re going to —  
  
Q    — relates to Ukraine funding?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, I — look, I’m not going to get into
hypotheticals from here.  What I’m saying is, we appreciate the
bipartisan support that we have seen these past several months, and we
will continue to work with House and Senate members to make sure that
the support that we are giving the brave people of Ukraine — that
continues.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    I’ve got a question about the upcoming meeting with the President
of Israel next week.  The Israeli government once again reiterated its,
sort of, position that it won’t send direct weapons to Ukraine,
preferring humanitarian aid.  Given the situation, given Russia’s
action, given the increasing implication of Iran in this war, is this
something that the President is going to push with his Israeli
counterpart when he meets with him — push for the Israelis to maybe help
more, militarily, the Ukrainians?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So I would refer you to the government of Israel for —
for more on their decisions.  Not something that I would comment from
here.   
  
But the President looks forward to welcoming the President of Israel to
the White House on October si- — 26th, as I announced yesterday, for a
visit that will underscore the enduring partnership between the United
States and Israel.  
  
I’m not going to get ahead of any specific issues the President plans to
raise, but I can confirm they will consult on a variety of issues — of
key issues, including opportunities to deepen Israel’s regional
integration and ways to advance equal measures of freedom,
<s>prosterity</s> \[prosperity\], and security for both Israelis and
Palestinians.   
  
Again, when it comes to their own government decision, I would refer you
to them.   
  
Go ahead.   
  
Q    Thank you, Karine.  So, you’re asking oil companies to further
lower gas prices.  What makes you think that they are going to listen to
an administration that is ultimately trying to put them out of
business?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  How — how is the administration trying to put them out
of business?   
  
Q    Well, they produce fossil fuels, and this President says he wants
to end fossil fuel.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So look, I — you kind of asked me this question
yesterday.  And here’s — here’s where — what we would say: U.S. oil
production is up and on track to reach a record high next year.  We’ve
seen that from their — from when we see their profit margins.  They are
— they — you know, it’s record high.   
  
And so, in fact, the United States has produced more oil in President
Biden’s first year than under Trump’s administration’s first year.  But
at the same time, oil companies are raking in record profits while more
than 9,000 approved drilling permits remain untapped by the oil
industry.   
  
There is no shortage of opportunity or incentive for all companies to
ramp up production.  This is something that they can actually do.  It is
available to them.  They can do this.  And also, they’re getting the
profits.   
  
And so, because they’re getting — I just showed 60 cents on the chart —
more profit — right? — that they — that we’re seeing higher — more
higher costs that we’re seeing that what — than what retailers are
paying at the pump.  They can bring that down.  They’ve done it before. 
You saw that at the chart, in the beginning.  They were able to bring
prices down.  
  
Q    And one more that folds in the President’s top domestic
priorities.  In Georgia, the President’s endorsed candidate for
governor, Stacey Abrams, is suggesting that one may — one way to
mitigate the effects of inflation is to get an abortion.  Does President
Biden agree?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I did not see her comments on this, so I don’t know
the context of this.  Again, I want to be careful because this is a
political debate, and it — it’s related to a midterm, an election.  So I
— this is — I’m not going to comment on that.   
  
Okay, I’ll go to the back.  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  Yeah, thanks, Karine.  So the FTC has — so far has
found no signs of wrongdoing for price gouging within oil companies.  So
I’m wondering why the President still continues that narrative.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Because we’re seeing it from the chart.  And oil
companies were able to do it before, as I just stated to Peter.  We’re
seeing a — a 60-cent gap between where — where their profit are and what
— what people are paying at the pump.  And so, they can bring it down. 
They’ve done it before.   
  
And so the President wants to make sure that — that the profits that oil
companies are making is also being — you know, their profits is — is
being afforded and given to — to the American people.  
  
Q    So we’ve heard you say that the President believes there’s not
going to be a recession or could not — might not happen.  But a growing
number of business folks who are outside this building — Jeff Bezos,
yesterday, joining Jamie Dimon, Goldman Sachs’s CEO — why are they wrong
then?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, the President has said this, and I’m going
to say this here as well: What he wants the American people to know is,
because of the resilience of the economy and be and because of the — our
economic plan, we are in a better place to deal with these global
challenges, to deal with global inflation than any other, you know,
global major company — I’m sorry — major country in the world.   
  
And we are in a stronger position to navigate through these global
challenges.  We see jobs — jobs are — jobs are up.  We created 10
million jobs.  We — we see — we see that, you know, unemployment rate is
at the lowest that we’ve ever had — or had in a while, in historic
lows.   
  
And because of those pieces of data that I just laid out, we think we
are in a stronger place than we have been, that we have seen when you —
when we talk about a recession, what leads to a recession.   
  
And so, look, again, the President was very clear: He doesn’t anticipate
there being a recession because of those data points that I just laid
out.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you, Karine.  A couple of summit questions, and then one on
Iran, if I may.  The first one is on the G20.  Can you speak about what
the President is trying to do in terms of rallying support for Ukraine
in that forum?   
  
And on that note, can you confirm reporting that the White House is
trying to ensure that President Biden does not bump into President Putin
should he attend the summit?  We still don’t know whether he’s attending
the summit or not.  That’s my first question on the summit.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Those reports are not correct.  They’re not true.  
  
Q    Okay.  And what about what he intends to do in terms of rallying
support for Ukraine at the G20?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  The President as — he rallied sup- — he has been
rallying support for Ukraine these past several months, as you have
seen.  He was on — he was on the phone with G7 and also President
Zelenskyy last week — again, rallying support.   
  
I don’t have anything specific to share about the G20 and what that
could or might look like, so I won’t get ahead of our plans.  
  
Q    And then, on the APEC Summit, can you confirm: Local media
reporting that Vice President Harris will be attending the APEC Summit
instead of President Biden.  And respond to criticism that the forum is
not considered important enough, especially because the President would
already be in the region, and also concern that President Xi Jinping
might dominate the forum?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, we don’t have any travel announcement to announce
at this time.  
  
Look, we are, of course, consider the forum important.  That is why the
United States will be the host of the APEC in 2023.  So clearly, that is
important to the President; that is important to us.  It is a top
priority for the Biden-Harris administration to serve as a strong,
reliable partner to APEC economies and identify common ways to replenish
— to unleash economic opportunity, prosperity, and growth for us all.  
  
So again, this is important to the President, but I don’t have anything
to announce as far as any travel.  
  
Q    Thank you.  And then, one last one on Iran. Is the administration
aware that Iran has sent military personnel to Crimea to train Russian
military personnel on Iranian drones?  
  
And on that note, can you also enlighten us or share anything on the
discussion of Iranian arms transfer to Russia that’s being raised by the
U.S. and allies at the U.N. Security Council?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, on those reports, I don’t have anything here to
share or confirm.   
  
Look, we’ve said for months that Russia had plans to — to turn — to turn
to Iran, and that is what we’re seeing for support.  And so, it’s
another sign of how brutal Putin is willing to be and how isolated he
is, along with Iran.  
  
The President spoke to this.  One of your colleagues asked him a
question about the martial law and he talked about the brutality that
Russia is trying to — is trying to, you know, put onto Ukrainian — the
Ukrainians.  
  
And what we’re continuing to see is how bravely the Ukrainians are
fighting — are fighting for their freedom and fighting against the
Russian’s aggresi- — aggression.  But it’s not going to change the
course of the war.  We’re going to continue to support Ukraine and
continue to provide them with security assistance, as long as it takes
because we understand how important it is for them to fight for their
sovereignty, how important it is for them to fight for their
democracy.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  The U.S. Census Bureau said recently that adults
in roughly one-third of households with infants and children that use
formula had trouble finding it.  Obviously, the administration has taken
a number of steps over the last several months to try to address the
shortage.  Why is the shortage still ongoing after so much time, and
what can be done?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, the President and his administration has —
has taken actions, as you know, through the last several months to make
sure that we have progress to address this current — this issue — this
issue that is currently happening right now, and also to avoid any
future issues.  
  
As you know, we’ve ramped up the domestic production, which — including
invoking the Domestic Production Act, which has allowed companies to
increase production.  And as a result, U.S.  infant formula production
year-to-date has outpaced the 2020 level.   
  
So, we have seen some improvement. We understand that there’s more work
to be done.  And — and so we’re going to continue to work on that as
well.  
  
Q    Thanks.  A couple questions on gas prices.  The first is: When the
President announced his initial round of actions back in March he said
that that directly would contribute to a 10 to 35 cents per gallon
decrease in gas prices.  Can you give the same or similar quantification
here?  And if not, what’s the difference?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, I’m not going to give a quantification here at
this time.  
  
Look, what — the difference now is — is that — and the reason that the
President made this announcement is Russia continues its aggression. 
It’s continuing its war.  And so, the President took extra action to
deal with gas prices.  Even though that they have been going down,
they’re still too high.  
  
And so, the President, again, is going to continue to keep his promise
to the American people to lower costs at the pump, and not just that —
lower healthcare costs, lower energy costs.  
  
We talked — we’ve talked about the Inflation Reduction Act and what it’s
going to deliver and do for the American people.  
  
And so, look, this is something that the President takes very seriously
when we talk about inflation, when we talk about costs.  He has made
this a priority when we talk about his economic policy.  And so, that’s
what you heard from the President today.  
  
Q    And secondly, you know, earnings seasons is coming up. You’re going
to have a lot of these companies reporting their earnings.  Most likely,
you know, potentially announcing more buybacks.  If that happens, again,
another quarter, what’s the consequence here?  I mean, what more can the
White House do here to prevent oil companies from just continuing to,
you know, funnel profits to that?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, we’re going to continue to have those
conversations.  As I mentioned, Department of Energy has been in touch
with oil companies on a — on a pretty regular basis — that they’ve had
that open door of communication.  So, that will continue.  And you’re
going to continue to hear from — from the President.  
  
I don’t want to get ahead of what might or might not happen — we have
seen the oil companies actually act before, very early on, to bring
their prices down to make sure that, you know, that the American — the
American people are paying what they should be paying at the — at the
pump — right? — to make sure that the American people are not — are —
are being given a little bit more of a breathing room.  
  
And so, the President’s going to continue to speak out and we’re going
to continue to do the work.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Thanks, everybody.  
  
3:00 P.M. EDT
