---
date: '2022-10-11'
published_time: 2022-10-11 20:13:54-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2022/10/11/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-and-covid-19-response-coordinator-dr-ashish-jha-5/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing By Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre And Covid-19 Response\
  \ Coordinator Dr. Ashish\_Jha"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

3:26 P.M. EDT

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Hello. Good afternoon, everybody.

Q Good afternoon.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Okay, so today is National Coming Out Day. And so, I
wanted to start by sharing my own coming out story.

Like so many in the LGBTQ community, coming out wasn’t an easy thing to
do. My family was traditional and conservative. Being gay in my family
wasn’t something that you mentioned out loud or celebrated.

But my family — like many, many other families — grew to accept who I
was. They saw that who I loved didn’t change who I was as a person, it
didn’t change the things I like to do, and it didn’t change the goals I
had for my life.

The beauty of America is its freedoms and the promise that you can
achieve your dreams no matter your race, sex, country of origin, sexual
orientation, or gender identity.

This is something we continue to strive toward and fight for,
particularly as we continue to see a wave of anti-LGBTQ legislation
across the country. And it’s why I’m so honored to serve the President
and the First Lady, who have stood with the LGBTQ community for many
years and will continue to stand with all those who come out.

And we are thinking about those who are coming out or those who are
thinking about coming out, and we are here for you, and we will continue
to support you.

Thank you.

With that, I now want to turn to our special guest for today. Today, we
have White House COVID-19 Coor- — Response Coordinator Dr. Jha back with
us in the room.

He is going to discuss the benefits of the updated vaccines and new
vaccines that you have heard us talk about here and our work to ensure
that all eligible Americans do get vaccinated ahead of the winter.

With that, Dr. Jha, thank you for joining us.

DR. JHA: Thank you. Thank you, KJP, and thank you for your personal
story.

Thank you all for having me back. Happy to be back here. I know families
around the country are starting to make plans for Thanksgiving. Mine is.
We’re thinking about the holidays ahead. It’s going to be here soon —
sooner than most people know. And we’re all looking forward to a really
good holiday season.

The challenge with holiday seasons every year is it’s also a time where
contagious respiratory viruses — like influenza, RSV, and, again this
year, COVID — spread much more quickly.

And we have seen an increase in COVID infections, hospitalizations, and
deaths each of the last two winters. And we are carefully monitoring the
rise of several subvariants that are evolving rapidly and emerging
around the world, including ones that evade some of our treatments.

And given what we’ve seen in Australia this summer — our summer, their
winter — it’s reasonable to expect we’re going to see a significant flu
season this year. So we have some challenges ahead as we plan and as we
look at the winter in front of us.

But the good news is we are not helpless against these challenges,
right? In fact, what happens in the weeks and months ahead will have a
large impact on how the winter goes. And really what happens in this
winter is largely up to us, as the American people.

So let me talk about what tools we have, what we can do to make sure we
have a safe and healthy fall/winter holiday season.

We have updated bivalent vaccines that are designed to target both the
original version of COVID — I think you should see slides up; you do —
great — that target both the original version of COVID from 2020, as
well as Omicron, the BA.5 version that’s circulating right now.

And based on everything we know about immunology and science and
vaccines, these updated vaccines should provide a much higher level of
protection against infection, against transmission, and certainly
against serious illness and hospitalizations and deaths.

And just like people get the flu shot each year even if you’ve had the
flu in the past or if you got a flu shot the year before, it’s really
critical that everyone 12 and older should go get this updated annual
vac- — COOVID-19 vaccine so you’re protected this fall and winter and
you’re protected year-round.

So, my message today from this briefing room is very simple: Don’t wait.
Get your new flu shot and get your new COVID shot today. If Americans
did that, we could save hundreds of lives each day this winter.

As the Commonwealth Fund just put out a new report, a new analysis, they
estimate that we can save as many as 90,000 lives and nearly a million
hospitalizations if most eligible Americans got their updated vaccines.

Now, that is just based on vaccines alone, which are remarkable and
going to make a very large difference. But if we do better, that if
people get tested when they have symptoms — we know testing leads to a
diagnosis, diagnosis leads to treatments. And treatments that we have
available today for free keep people out of the hospital, keep people
out of the ICU, prevent the worst outcome of all.

And here is the most remarkable fact. Two and a half years into this
pandemic — think about where we were in March of 2020 — here is the most
remarkable fact: If you are up to date with your vaccines and if you get
treated, if you have a breakthrough infection, your risk of dying from
COVID is now close to zero. I really think that is remarkable progress.

And as a nation, we are clearly in a much better place as well. Right?
COVID is no longer the same disruptive threat it was.

And, by the way, that did not happen by accident. It’s happened because
of the leadership of this President — his leadership on vaccines, on
treatments, on testing. We’re the first country in the world to
authorize a BA.5 bivalent vaccine. The first country in the world to
make Paxlovid widely available.

So as we look ahead to our third winter of COVID-19, we are focused like
a laser on bringing down serious illness and deaths.

And the single-most important thing people can do to protect themselves,
to protect their families, or protect their communities is to get the
updated COVID-19 vaccine.

Now let me tell you a little bit about what we’re doing to try to make
sure that that happens. First, we’ve made it widely available, easily
accessible, and it remains free. That’s point number one.

Now we’re doing everything we can to get the message out about the
benefits of these vaccines. We’re focused on reaching people where they
are. We set up pop — pop-up clinics in state and county fairs around the
country.

Last week, the health — the Healthy Trucking of America hosted a pop-up
clinic called “Million Mile Celebration” at the Talladega Motor Speedway
in Alabama to help drivers get their updated vaccine. Next week, we’re
going to be at the Texas State Fair in Dallas. Week after that, at the
Jackson County Fair in Biloxi. And the week after that, at the State
Fair of Louisiana in Shreveport. These are just some of the things.  
We’ve been building partnerships. We have a partnership with “100 Black
Men of America,” which is hosting a vaccine drive today in San Antonio,
Texas, and one in Savannah, Georgia, on Saturday.

And we have — we’re making efforts through both targeted paid and earned
media efforts in the — in the weeks ahead. We have partnered with retail
pharmacies. And we’re working with trusted messengers, such as faith
leaders in communities across the country.

We’re making it very clear that getting these updated vaccines can save
your life, because we know these vaccines are safe and they are
effective.

And beyond vaccines — let me make one other clear point, because there’s
a lot of confusion. When you go on social media, lots of people like to
pontificate on what the data says, so let me be very clear about the
evidence.

If you are over 50 or otherwise at elevated risk and you get infected,
you should be seriously considered for treatments, because treatments
are effective, they make a big difference, they can save your life.

Now, let me finish off by saying we know there’s more work to do with
real challenges ahead of us as we head into the fall and winter and the
holidays. We’re doing everything we can as an administration to stay
ahead of this virus. But if we all do our part — not just us in the
administration, but Congress and the American people — I remain
incredibly confident we can manage this virus for this fall and winter
with less suffering and we can have a safe and healthy holiday season
ahead.

So, with that, let me stop and take questions. But thank you.

Q Thank you, Dr. Jha. Just in terms of the winter surge that the
administration is expecting, can you be a little specific in terms of
the numbers — what kind of range, in terms of number of cases, we’re
looking at?

And then for the window of time that we have for people to get
vaccinated ahead of the winter, like, when does that window sort of
close before that actually has a big effect?  
DR. JHA: So we don’t have a specific estimate of how many infections.
You know, look, there are lots of different models out there. And we are
tracking both internal government models, but certainly lots of external
academic models.

Most of them expect that we’re going to see more infections as we get
into November, December, January. That’s what we saw the last couple of
winters, so that’s not surprising.

In terms of when is a good time to get vaccinated, I’ve been very clear
about this: I think people should go get vaccinated before Halloween.
Why Halloween? Because it takes a couple of weeks for your immune system
to, you know, kind of, generate the benefit from that vaccine. And that
means you will be ready by Thanksgiving and certainly by the holidays.

If you miss the Halloween, is it too late? It’s not too late. Again, it
takes a couple of weeks for the immune system to benefit from the
vaccine, so there is no time period where the window is out and you’re
no longer going to benefit; you will always benefit.

But the bottom line is: If you do it before Thanksgiving, you’re going
to see family and friends before the holidays, a lot of socializing that
goes on in December, it’s going to be a really good time to get it done
before Halloween.

Q Just a quick follow-up. Since the White House has now said the
pandemic is over, can you just talk a little bit about what the message
is for Americans as we head into the winter months? Can they behave as
though it’s business as usual as long as they’re vaccinated?

DR. JHA: So the President was very clear: COVID is not over. There’s a
lot of work to do. We still have 3- to 400 Americans dying every day,
tens of thousands of people are getting infected every day. There is a
lot of work to do.

What we know is that if we want to keep people safe and protect them
from serious illness, which is obviously priority number one, the number
one thing that people need to do is get vaccinated. And the number two
is if you have a breakthrough infection, you need to get treated.

If people did those two things, it would make an enormous difference in
preventing hospitalizations, preventing ICU stays, preventing deaths.
And those are the top priorities.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Go ahead, Chris.

Q So, if the administration is laser focused on protecting people from
serious illness, why are the booster uptake rates so low? This — does
this reflect a failure on the part of the White House, the
administration to get people boosted? And lastly —

DR. JHA: Yeah, so let’s —

Q Sorry, one last thing: Why haven’t we heard from President Biden on
this directly, given that he has the largest megaphone? You know, we
heard from him so much early on in the administration. Why are we — why
isn’t he speaking about this?

DR. JHA: So let me — let me start off by talking about where we are with
the fall — this COVID — new COVID vaccine uptake.

We estimate that — and, again, we’ll get new numbers from CDC, but, as
you know, those numbers always lag. We — we estimate that between 13-
and 15 million people have gotten the new COVID vaccine through this
past weekend. And we always expected this to build up over time.

September — if you think about how flu vaccines tend to work, not a lot
of people get the flu vaccine in September. People are just coming back
to school. People are not thinking about the winter so much in
September. It’s really October, as the weather starts getting cooler.

I’m from Boston, people tell me this is Washington fall. (Laughter.)
But, you know, it is starting to get a little bit cooler here.

I think, as that happens, as people — we tend to see a big uptick in flu
vaccines, we’re expecting more people to get the COVID vaccine. And
we’re going to do everything we can to get the word out. And all of us
are speaking about it. And so, I think you’ve heard about this from the
Secretary of HHS, from — from the Surgeon General, me. I’m sure you’ll
hear about it from the President as well.

The President has talked about get- — the importance of going out and
getting vaccines and getting boosted. So we all are very, I think,
synchronized on making sure this word gets out.

Q But rates are so low. Is something not working?

DR. JHA: No, I think, look, we expected — in the beginning when the
vaccines rolled out in September, we expected September to be a month
where it would just start picking up. And then, again, we’d really
expect vaccination to start happening in October.

We’re out there doing everything we can to make sure that that message
is getting out there and helping people understand that if you want to
stay safe and healthy this fall and winter, the best thing you can do is
get vaccinated.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Go ahead, Tam.

Q Yeah, in terms of the President getting out and talking about it, when
is he going to get his bivalent booster? And also, what is your advice
for people like him who have had COVID relatively recently?

DR. JHA: Yeah, so, the — we’re still working out things. Look, I — the
advice that all of us are giving is: People should wait three months
after they’ve had their infection.

If you do the math of when the President had his infection, it’s
somewhere around late October. We’re going to find a specific date when
the President is going to get it, so I don’t have a specific date to
mention. But he’s still in that three-month window. Same thing for the
First Lady.

We’re following the science here. And the evidence suggests that waiting
a few months and — after you’ve had your infection is the optimal for
getting the best immunological response.

Q You had asked for $22 billion for COVID funding for next-generation
treatments, next-generation vaccines. That money did not come through.
Are you in a bad place heading into winter?

DR. JHA: Well, so, no doubt about it that our response has been hampered
by that lack of funding, right? And I’ve been — I think even from this
podium, I’ve explained that we still went ah- — we thought it was
incredibly important to get the new vaccines; we did.

We pulled money from having — we had money allocated for a stockpile of
tests and personal protective equipment. If you remember, having enough
PPEs for doctors and nurses is pretty critical. We were going to have a
national stockpile. We do not have an adequate stockpile of that or of
tests because we had to pull resources to make sure that we had enough
vaccines.

We do not have funding for the next generation of vaccines and
treatments. Our COVID — or, sorry, our vaccine campaign has been more
limited because of lack of funding.

So Congress bears a lot of responsibility for the complexities of the
moment we find ourselves in. You can’t run a national response to a
highly contagious and deadly virus without adequate funding from
Congress.

Congress has been a great partner in the past. I remain hopeful that
Congress will step up again. But it is undoubtedly true that
congressional inaction has put the health and wellbeing of American
people at risk.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Go ahead, April.

Q All right, Dr. Jha. Two questions. When the vaccine first came out,
there was a concerted effort for the least of these — low-income,
minority people. Is there a concerted effort once again for this booster
shot for minorities, low income?

And also, speaking of the positives of the booster shot, there’s a study
out talking about women — women and their menstrual cycles, how vaccines
— the COVID vaccines have impacted them. Can you speak to that as well?

DR. JHA: Yep. So, on that study, it affected, for the first cycle —
affected the menstrual cycle by one day. And then — and then women’s
menstrual cycle — menstrual cycles returned back to normal. So there was
a lot of — and that was — has been the most definitive study suggesting
there are no significant long-term impacts on the health of women or
their reproductive health.

On the issue of making sure that we’re both getting the vaccines out to
disadvantaged communities, poor communities, communities of color, no
question in my mind that is — continues to be a major priority of the
administration.

We look at all these data stratified by race, ethnicity, income to make
sure that we’re not leaving people behind. That begins, certainly, by
making sure these things are widely available and accessible in
communities.

But it also — that — that’s not enough. We’re working with community
partners, community-based organizations to make sure that we’re getting
the message out in those communities as well.

Q And as you’re casting a broad net for the booster shots, is there a
community or communities — are there communities that you are really
concerned about this winter — going into this winter season — with
potential COVID upticks?

DR. JHA: Well, obviously, we’re always most concerned about people who
are at highest risk. Right? And so, what we know is that people who are
older people who live in congregate care settings, they tend to be the
highest risk for poor outcomes.

So, again, when you have limited resources, we’re putting a lot of
attention on making sure that those resources are going to the — to
people who are at highest risk. And that’s going to continue to be a
priority.

Q Dr. Jha, is the thinking after these updated booster shots that
Americans should expect an annual COVID booster, or is it possible with
any new strains that we should expect this will keep happening every few
months? How should people be thinking about that?

DR. JHA: Yeah. So I think for most Americans, it’s a once-a-year shot.
And, by the way, people think somehow that’s — we’re making news; we’re
really not. If you think about it — take an average 40-year-old: If they
got a booster last fall, they first became eligible for a new vaccine
just a month ago.

So, essentially, for a majority of Americans, we’ve already gotten into
a once-a-year rhythm. All we did by calling it an “annual” COVID-19
vaccine is call it what it already becomes. So I think the science on
that is clear. For a majority of Americans who are — who are not in the
highest-risk group, a once-a-year COVID vaccine. I’m not saying forever.
I don’t know how long. Obviously, we’ll see where the virus goes.

For other people who are at high risk — so I think about my elderly
parents who are in their 80s — yeah, they may need vaccines more often
than that. And we’re going to track the evidence and data. And if it
turns out that, for them, an additional shot — let’s say in the spring —
is useful, obviously we’re going to make sure that we do everything we
can to make that available.

Q And lastly, President Biden did tell “60 Minutes” that he thought the
pandemic was over. Do you share that assessment?

DR. JHA: So let me be very clear: The President also followed that up
with “COVID is not over” and said we are doing a lot of work. I am the
COVID Response Coordinator. We are doing a lot of work to fight COVID.
Right? Hundreds of Americans are still dying every day. We think it’s
really important to protect Americans. And I know that for the work we
are doing on protecting Americans against COVID, we have the full
support of the President, and that continues to be the focus of our
work.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Go ahead. And then Tyler and then Karen.

Q Doctor, can you tell us your assessment of the new variants we’re
seeing and how infectious that you think they are, even for people who
are fully boosted? And also, just what scale could this winter surge
take? Are — do you think it could be like Omicron level, from last
winter?

DR. JHA: Yeah, so predictions are always hard on these things — right? —
because the virus continues to surprise us and continues to evolve.
There are three or four subvariants that we are tracking most closely.
They are, you know, in different parts of the world. And they all arise
either from a BA.2 or a BA.5 kind of lineage.

And the reason we’re tracking them is because they either have a lot
more immune invasiveness or they render many of our treatments
ineffective. Those are the two major things that get our attention.

The good news is all of these subvariants do arise from a BA.2 or BA.5.
That means our updated bivalent vaccines should provide a much higher
degree of protection than the original prototype vaccine would have.
Obviously, we’re — we’re going to do the studies to figure out how much
protection, but I’m confident that our vaccines will continue to work
very well, certainly against protecting against serious illness.

You know, and then the curveball that we got last — last Thanksgiving
with Omicron, none of us obviously can predict that with any certainty.
So, our job is to not be in the prediction business but to be in the
planning business. And so, we have a whole set of efforts that we’re
leading in the U.S. government to be ready should Mother Nature throw us
a true curveball like what we saw last winter.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Go ahead, Tyler and then Karen (inaudible).

Q In the first vaccination campaign, before you took this role, the
Biden administration set goals for the percentage of Americans that they
wanted to get vaccinated was 70 percent. Right now, it’s less than 4
percent of U.S. adults. I’m wondering — around that number. I’m
wondering if you guys are setting a new target for what you’d want to
hit by Halloween or if there’s the goal that you guys are setting
(inaudible).

DR. JHA: Yeah, at first glance, we’ve said: No internal goals, no
external goals. We just have — my feeling on this is we want to get as
many Americans vaccinated with the updated vaccine. We think it’s,
clearly, a better vaccine, an important upgrade from what we had before.
And the more Americans, the better.

People often ask me is, “Do you have a goal for how many people or how
low you want to drive deaths down?” The answer is no. Like, we have
about three to four hundred Americans dying every day. Too many. We want
to drive that lower. Two hundred is better. A hundred would be better
than that. So we don’t — we’re not setting targets. We are focused on
driving deaths down, getting more people vaccinated, and with a very
simple goal, which is: more vaccinations better, lower deaths better.

Q And then just a quick follow-up. I know you’ve added some context to
the comment that the President made on “60 Minutes,” but do you think
that his comment saying the pandemic is over has contributed to the lack
of uptake in vaccinations for this — this new bivalent vaccine?

DR. JHA: Yet, let me be very clear about this: You know, a majority of
American adults go out and get the flu shot every fall. They don’t do it
because the President comes out and says we have a flu pandemic. Right?
They get it because they understand that the best way to protect
themselves during the fall and winter is to get the flu vaccine. In very
much the same way, I think a majority of Americans understand that we’re
still, you know, in a situation where COVID is around, it’s still
infecting a lot of people, getting a lot of people sick. Obviously way
better than where we were. And the best way to protect themselves is to
get the COVID vaccine.

So, I don’t think the President’s comments has anything to do with
what’s happening right now.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Go ahead, Karen.

Q Two follow-ups, if I can, on topics that you talked about. When you
say that you expect there to be a pickup in the pace of vaccines in
October, did the White House miscalculate the demand for these new
boosters when you asked Congress for the money for this?

DR. JHA: No. Remember, we had no money for this. And we thought it was
really important — and I still think it’s really important — that we
have enough vaccines for Americans — for any American who wants it. And
so, when we — so we had no money. We asked Congress for money. Congress
chose not to fund it. We went and had to pull money from other really
important programs. We purchased about 170 million doses.

One of the things that we know is if we want to make it available in
rural communities, if we want to make it available at Motor Speedways,
you’re not going to use up every single last dose. You have to be able
to willing and be — open up a dose of 10 and know that only 8 or 9 might
get used.

So, you have to have a little slack in the system. And based on all the
calculations that we — I think we’ve made sure to purchase enough
vaccines so any American who wants a vaccine can get it.

Q And when you mentioned about pulling money from stockpiles of tests,
when you were talking about — to Tam’s question — knowing that you can’t
answer what might be coming in the fall and winter with a surge —

DR. JHA: Yeah.

Q — should Americans be buying tests now and stocking up on tests so
they have them in preparation for what could be coming?

DR. JHA: What I would say is, you know, the — the calculations that HHS
had done — again, nothing — these were done before I arrived — suggested
that if we got another Omicron-like event, we should have about 800, 900
million tests in a stockpile so we can get it out to the American people
because it would take us four to six weeks for domestic manufacturing to
ramp up again.

We’re going to have nowhere near that, so that is a real problem. We are
going into this fall and winter without adequate tests because of
congressional inaction. And I think it’s really important, for —
obviously, it’s important that we have enough testing. Again, we’re
going to do everything inside the administration to make sure that we
have testing capability that we can ramp up as quickly as possible.

But all of this his made just dramatically harder by congressional
inaction. You can’t fight a deadly virus without resources. And
congressional inaction is really costly.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: All right. Thank you, Dr. Jha.

DR. JHA: Thank you all. I have to run off. Take care. Thank you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: All right. Okay, I have a couple of things at the top.
And let’s dive in.

Russia’s latest missile strikes against Ukraine once again demonstrate
Russia’s and President Putin’s brutality. President Biden continues to
make clear along with our allies and partners that we will not waver
from our commitment to support Ukraine as long as it takes.

Yesterday, President Biden spoke with President Zelenskyy and pledged to
continue providing Ukraine with the support needed to defend itself,
including advanced air defense systems. And today, G7 leaders met
virtually for more than 90 minutes to continue coordinating our efforts
to impose costs on Russia and provide Ukraine with economic security and
humanitarian assistance.

President Biden has also discussed with G7 partners what more we can do
together to prioritize air defense capabilities for Ukraine, which has
been and will continue to be a U.S. priority. Secur- — Secretary Austin
will continue that discussion at the Ukraine Defense Contact Group in
Brussels; that will be tomorrow.

Today, as well, the President also welcomed a historic breakthrough in
the Middle East.

After months of mediation by the United Na- — by the United States, the
governments of Israel and Lebanon have agreed to formally end their
maritime boundary dispute and establish a permanent maritime boundary
between them.

The President spoke this morning with Prime Minister of Israel Lapid and
President of Lebanon Michel Aoun, who confirmed the readiness of both
governments to move forward with this agreement.

We want to also thank President Emmanuel Macron of France and his
government for their support in these negotiations.

The President has long believed that energy, particularly in the eastern
Mediterranean, should serve as a tool for cooperation, stability,
security, and prosperity, not for conflict.

He first worked on this issue nearly a decade ago as Vice President, and
is pleased that U.S. mediation and persistent diplomacy finally led to
this breakthrough today.

The agreement will provide for the development of energy fields for the
benefit of both countries, setting the stage for a more stable and
prosperous region and harnessing vital new energy resources for the
world.

It protects Israel’s security and economic interests, critical to
promoting its regional int- — integration. It provides Lebanon the space
to begin its own exploitation of energy resources and marks a new
chapter of hope following years of crisis. And it promotes the interests
of the United States and the American people in a more stable,
prosperous, and integrated Middle East region with reduced risk of new
conflicts — all central themes of the President’s visit to the region
this past summer.

We are pleased to have achieved this breakthrough today and congratulate
everyone involved.

And finally, I also want to recognize that today is International Day of
the Girl. Today is an opportunity to celebrate the power of young women
and girls around the world by championing their safety and rights.

In particular, today, we are thinking of the brave young women and girls
leading the ongoing protests in Iran.

Women should be able to express themselves how — how they want and wear
— and wear what they want, free from violence or harassment.

There’s still so much work to be done to create an equitable country and
world for our daughters and granddaughters. The Biden-Harris
administration has and will continue to pr- — prioritize that work by
creating opportunities for economic security and advancing equal access
to education, job training, and jobs by fighting to protect and expand
girls access to healthcare and by working to address the scourge of
gender-based violence wherever it occurs.

President Biden and Vice President Harris will continue to speak out for
women and girls around the globe.

With that, Chris, you want to kick us off?

Q Sure. There’s been talk about reassessing your relationship with Saudi
Arabia. What is the administration prepared do at this point, as far as
reassessing? Would it involve weapon sales, diplomatic relations? Can
you talk about some of the options here?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, from the beginning of the administration, since
taking office, the President has been very clear that United States
needs to — needs a different sort of relationship with Saudi Arabia. He
has said that from very early on. And I have said this last week — when
OPEC made the decision to align their energy policy with Russia’s war —
war aims and against the American people further underscores that
reasoning to realign that relationship, to reevaluate that relationship
with Saudi Arabia.

We are reviewing where we are currently right now. And we’ll be watching
closely over the coming weeks and months as well, consulting with our
allies and also with our — with members of Congress. And decisions will
be made once that — once that — once that policy review is underway.

And so, but — but, to be clear, I’m not going to get ahead of that. But
that’s the process that we’re going to take next.

Q What is the timeline for the review?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Don’t have a timeline. But clearly, this is something
that we’re going to closely monitor. And we have said from the
beginning, we need to kind of reassess and have a different relationship
with Saudi Arabia, especially after the decision that was made by OPEC+.
And we were very clear about that last week.

Go ahead.

Q Thanks, Karine. Does President Biden believe that Saudi Arabia sides
with Russia in this war?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Well, we believe by — by the decision that OPEC+ made
last week, they certainly are aligning themselves with Russia. And right
now, this is not a time to be aligning with Russia, especially with this
brutal, unprecedented war that they have started in — in Ukraine.

And we’ve been very clear about that. The President has been very clear
about that since the beginning of this war. And so this action that they
took, this decision that OPEC+ made last week proves that that’s where
they are aligning their energy policy is with Russia.

Q So, given that, Senator Bob Menendez, the chair of the Foreign
Relations Committee has proposed that the U.S. basically stop selling
arms to Saudi Arabia. Is that something the President would consider?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Again, we’re going — the President has been very clear
that we need to find a different sort of relationship with Saudi Arabia.
We are going to look at, assess our policies, get a sense of how we’re —
what we’re — how we’re going to — the actions that we’re going to take.
And so we’re reviewing this. I don’t want to get ahead of the
President’s decision.

But again, I don’t have anything specific to that particular question.
But we are going to have a review of where we are and take a really,
really deliberate, close look.

Q Thanks, Karine. Ahead of the U.N. vote tomorrow on this draft
resolution condemning Russia’s annexation of parts of Ukraine, could you
walk us through what’s at stake for the administration, particularly as
it relates to President Biden’s push to keep this coalition united this
far into this war?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Look, we have — we have been very clear about what
we’re seeing — the aggression against Ukraine by Russia. We and our
allies — our allies in Europe, our allies across the globe.

You know, when — one thing I would say is: When we started this process,
Putin had thought that he would — that he would, you know, bring forth a
weaken — a weaker NATO, that there was no way that we would have this
strong alliance. And what we were able to prove, the President — because
of the President’s leadership, is that now we see an alliance that’s
even stronger than it’s been in modern times.

Our coalition is strong. We have held the major democracies together.
Putin has been counting on a split, as I just said, and he hasn’t had
it. It has not happened.

And so, after the first G7 of this administration, there were questions
about whether America is back. And we are indeed back.

So the President has spent a lot of time talking to leaders, as he did
today. He’s done that face to face, on the phone in the Oval, again,
like he did today with the G7 leaders; yesterday, as he did with
President Zelenskyy.

And look, you know, we are going to continue to have these
conversations. It is important for this alliance to stick together.

But you heard you — I’m sure all of you saw the — the readout, the
statement from the G7 and what they are going to continue to do,
continue to provide — economic assistance and — and security assistance
— to Ukraine. They’re going to continue to call out Putin and what he’s
doing with the annexation, what he’s doing with the nuclear strikes.

And you are seeing a stronger — a stronger — you know, a stronger NATO,
a stronger Europe. And we’re going to continue to hold Putin
accountable.

Q So if we are indeed seeing a stronger Europe, will we see non-allied
countries lend their support to this resolution tomorrow? Are you
confident that you’ll have 100 countries signing on?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So I’m not going to — I’m not going to get ahead of
what the vote is going to look like at the U.N. But we’ve been very
clear — we have been very clear as — as to saying to — to all countries:
Now is not the time. Now is not the time to support Russia’s war. Now is
the time to speak out as we’re seeing this brutal war that was — that
was started by Mr. Putin.

And we’ve said this many times before: This war can end today. It could
end today. And it is up to President Putin to end this war.

Q You mentioned “weeks and months” for this Saudi review. Does the
President feel under any particular time pressure to act swiftly?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Don’t have a timeline. But we’ve been clear — again, I
don’t want to get ahead of this review process that we’re going to go
under. We don’t have a timeline.

But we have been very clear. You heard from me, you know, last week.
You’ve heard from my colleagues. This OPEC+ decision, you know, on their
energy policy was indeed self-serving. And it’s going to hurt, you know,
middle and low economies, countries across the country. And that is a
problem.

Q And who is leading the review?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: I don’t have a — a person in particular to speak to of
who is going to be leading the review. Clearly, this an all — you know,
an effort across the White House that we’re going to — we’re going to
push forward with. Clearly, the National Security Council is going to be
involved in this review as well.

But this is something that the President is going to take very
seriously, and we will have more to share. I don’t want to get ahead of
the review.

Q And last thing, what does the White House make of these reports that
Elon Musk has been talking to Vladimir Putin about Ukraine?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So we’ve been very clear. I was asked some- — a similar
question about this last week — about Elon Musk.

Look, the President has been clear as well and believes that decisions
about negotiations are decisions for Ukraine to make. Nothing about
Ukraine without Ukraine. We have said that for months.

And, you know, as you saw — I was just mentioning the G7 leaders — they
put out a statement following their meeting with President Zelenskyy
today, you know: “\[We\] welcome President Zelenskyy\[’s\] readiness for
a just peace,” which would “include the following elements: respecting
the U.N. Charter’s protecting of territorial integrity and sovereignty”;
and “safeguarding Ukraine’s ability to defend itself in the future;
ensuring Ukraine’s recovery and reconstruction, including exploring
avenues to do — to do so with the funds from Russia;” and “pursuing
accountability for Russian\[’s\] crimes committed during the war.

But diplomacy requires — it requires both sides engaging in good faith
to de-escalate. And we have seen no signs — no signs at all — from
Vladimir Putin that he is prepared to stop the onslaut- — the onslaught
and the atrocities.

So he could stop, again, this war today. This is a war that he started,
and he could stop it if he wishes.

Go ahead,

Q Karine, the President — (clears throat) — excuse me — has made clear
that the U.S. will support Ukraine for “as long as it takes.” Does that
extend into next year? And how much is the White House thinking about
how that level of support could be complicated if Democrats no longer
control Congress?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, we’ve been very clear — look, it — but let me just
be also clear about this: The support that we have seen, it has been
bipartisan. Right? The support that we have seen and the — and the
funding that has been approved by Congress — the $40 billion not too
long ago, the most recent funding that we saw that was with the CR —
that was bipartisan as well.

And so, you have seen both sides come together in supporting Ukraine,
who is, again, fighting for their democracy, fighting for their freedom.
And we will continue to condemn, you know, Russia and their unprovoked
war. And we’ll continue to do that. We will continue to hold them
accountable.

But, again, I don’t have a timeline for you, because we — as we see this
— this could end today if President Putin chooses. Again, this is his
war that he has started.

But we will be there for Ukraine to support their brave — their bravery
as they are fighting against this aggression as long as it takes. Don’t
have a timeline.

As we have said many times along — before, this war has gone on for too
long.

Q And can you talk to us a little bit about the thinking on the
President’s upcoming travel? He’s going to the West Coast tomorrow. He
isn’t visiting Arizona or Nevada. I mean, we have four weeks until the
midterms. Should we expect to see him travel to some of the more
competitive states, campaign alongside some of the candidates who are in
very competitive races?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, as I’ve said many times, we, here at the White
House — this administration, we respect the Hatch Act. So we’re — I’m
going to be very mindful of that. And I cannot speak of the 2020 — 2022
midterm elections or any elections from this podium.

But, you know, we’ve been very clear that the President is going to go
out, the Vice President is going to go out, the Cabinet Secretaries. And
you’ll see Democrats in Congress — they’re going to talk about the su- —
the success that we have seen in this administration the last 19 months.

And, you know, we have talked about the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law
and how that’s going to change — that’s going to change our
infrastructure, repair our bridges and roads, and also strengthen our
supply chain. So we’re going to talk about that.

He’s going to talk about the Inflation Reduction Act, which is going to
help our seniors lower — lower costs, make us — make Medicare be able to
negotiate prices. It’s going to help energy costs. That’s what you’re
going to hear the President talking about.

He’s going to talk about the CHIPS Act. He did that last week — going to
IBM, going to Volvo, and talking about how the CHIPS Act is going to,
again, secure us — really secure and protect our national security, make
that stronger, but also bring back manufacturing jobs right here in the
U.S., and giving the opportunity to those businesses to come back and
actually really do — do the things that we have been wanting to see in
this country for — for decades now: create good-paying jobs.

And so, that’s what you’re going to hear the President talk about. He’ll
talk about his economy, how he’s able to put forth a policy that really
doesn’t leave anybody behind, bruil- — builds the economy from the
bottom up, middle out. And so that’s what you’re going to continue to
hear from us.

I don’t have any specific locations to share in the next four weeks.
But, of course, the President loves being out there. And you will see —
you’ll continue to see the President traveling.

Q I guess I was just wondering, you know, if he is eager to talk about
his accomplishments on a trip like this one, where he is going all the
way to the West Coast. Would there have been deliberations over why not
go to a state like Arizona or Nevada to talk about those
accomplishments?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Look, he’s going to go to California. He’s going to go
to Colorado. He’s going to go to Oregon to talk about those
accomplishments. There will be many more trips to announce and for the
President to be out there and talk directly to the American people.

I don’t have anything more specific to lay out as to where he’s going in
the next four weeks.

But, again, I also want to be very, very mindful of what I say here at
the podium as well.

Q He’s not welcome on the trail —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Go ahead, right here.

Q — correct, Karine?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Go ahead. Go ahead.

Q We get the consumer price index for September on Thursday. What does
the administration expect from that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So you’re talking about the CPI? The in- — the upcoming
number on inflation? So, look, you know, the President has made — as far
as his economic policy, he’s made lowering costs for the American
people, bringing it — that — look, the inflation down his number-one
economic priority. And that continues to be — that continues to do that.

He — we’re going to — we know that we’re — there’s more work to do, but
we have seen some important progress for the American people.

A couple of things that I’ll lay out:

We are — we’ve seen real disposable income and real consumer spending
both increase, in part thanks to the strength of our job market.

Gas prices are down over one dollar per gallon since their peak this
summer. That’s an overall decline of 22 percent.

And we’re giving families a little bit more breathing room. I just
talked about the Inflation Reduction Act that’s going to lower costs
when — as we think about healthcare, you think about energy, and
healthcare premiums, to be more specific.

And you know, here’s the thing — and we’ve seen this this week and we
saw it last week: how Republicans in Congress, as we know, voted against
the Inflation Reduction Act. But the first thing that they want to do is
repeal the Inflation Reduction Act, which means that they would be
playing into or supporting or lifting up these — the wealthiest special
interest groups.

Why would you do that? Why would you take away an opportunity to lower
costs for seniors? Why would you take out — take away the opportunity to
lower costs on — when it comes to energy? Why would you take away the
opportunity to fight climate change in a way that we have not seen and
an investment in a way that we have not seen?

And so that’s how we see, kind of, the important progress that we’ve
made. Clearly, we will be paying close attention to that data as it
comes out.

Q And then, the Federal Reserve has been responding to these inflation
reports by raising interest rates. And the White House’s response to
that has been to say, “The Fed is independent; we respect their
independence.” Is there ever a point where that might change — where the
White House might consider critiquing Fed policy, particularly if we
fall into a recession?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Again, we’re — we’ve been very clear about the Federal
Reserve. They are independent. We believe that they have the strongest
monetary policy to deal with this moment, and we are going to allow them
to do the work that they are currently doing.

I’m not going to be responding to — to any actions that they’re taking
because we truly do believe in the independence of the Fed.

Go ahead, Eli.

Q Thanks, Karine. The President has condemned racism many times since
taking office. I wonder if he’s followed the situation on the Los
Angeles City Council with Nury Martinez and the leaked recording of her
using racist remarks to describe a colleague’s Black son. She said today
she’s taking a leave of absence, but there are others — Senator Padilla,
Mayor Garcetti — who have called for her to resign. Does the President
follow this? Does he have a reaction to —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yes.

Q — what’s going on out there?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: He’s followed this. I spoke to him about it yesterday.

Look, the President is glad to see that one of the participants in that
conversation has resigned, but they all should. He believes that they
all should resign.

The language that was used and tolerated during that conversation was
unacceptable and it was appalling. They should all step down.

And here’s the difference between Democrats and MAGA Republicans: When a
Democrat says something racist or antisemitic, we would — we hold them —
we hold Democrats accountable. When a MAGA Republican says something
racist or antisemitic, they are embraced by cheering crowds and become
celebrated and sought-after endorsements.

Senator Tuberville — let’s not forget this just happened — saying Black
people commit crimes. Doug Mastriano attacking his opponent in
Pennsylvania governor’s race for sending his children to a Jewish day
school.

The President used to say — and I’ll quote the President right now —
quote, “Hate never goes away. It only hides.” But lately, it’s just one
in the — one in the open at these extreme MAGA rallies. It’s just out —
pardon me — it’s just out in the open at these extreme MAGA rallies. End
quote.

Go ahead.

Q Thanks, Karine. So the IMF cut global forecasts today and for the U.S.
I’m wondering if that forecast matches what the White House is seeing
internally and if you have any concerns about their warning that, you
know, “The worst is yet to come.”

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, I — I’ve said this before, and I’ll say this again.
You know, the — the President has a message for the American people, and
he wants them to know the following: Because of Americans’ resilience
and the economic strategy we pursued from day one in this administration
with his economic policy, the United States of America is in a stronger
position than any other country to nagiva- — navigate what we’re seeing
currently, these global challenges — and what we have seen during the 19
months of this President’s administration. And so that is the first
thing that we want to make sure that the American people understand.

Look, jobs are up, incomes are up, people are back to work, and American
manufacturing is warring back. And the economic legislation signed,
again, by this President — when we think about the Inflation Reduction
Act, when we think about CHIPS — CHIPS Act — are encouraging investment
right here in the United States. That will make our economy stronger and
more resilient for years to come. And that is also something important
to note.

So, now, of course, we’re going to continue to monitor this closely.
We’re going to watch this closely. The President continues to meet. He’s
going to meet with his senior — senior members of his economic team, as
we have sent updates about that these last two weeks, on the global
economic development. That is important. We take this very seriously.
And he — this is meetings that he regularly does.

And so — but we believe we are in a stronger position than many other of
our — many other countries when it comes to dealing with global
challenges.

Q And just one more. The President of Poland said that he’s asking to
share your weapons with the U.S. Has the administration received that
request? And what will they respond?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So I’ve seen those reports. I don’t have anything to
share on that at this time.

Q Yeah. Just one quick one. Is the White House concerned that one of the
12 railroad unions that needs to sign on to this contract that the
President helped negotiate — one of those unions has voted against the
contract, and I believe it needs to be unanimous. So where does that
leave this situation?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, the BW — the B- — the BMW \[BMWE\] — pardon me —
and the rail — railroad employees have agreed to a cooling-off period
that extends well into November, giving them adequate time, we believe,
to continue their work and ensuring that our economy is under no
immediate threat.

The President remains focused on protecting America’s families, farms,
businesses by avoiding a rail shutdown. Both sides have said they share
that goal.

One union’s rejection, as you were just laying out, Tam, of the current
proposed contract does not mean we face an immediate rail shutdown, but
it does mean that the union and the employers have additional work ahead
to agree to a contract that the union members will ratify themselves.

So, unions are democratic, as we know, organizations. That’s how they
function. That’s how they work. And contract ratification is part of
that process.

These negotiations have gone on for years — this is nothing new; we’ve
seen this before — and have often been — have often been acrimonious.
So, it’s not surprising that universal members approve of the new
contract and would have — would have challenges.

Again, we stand ready to assist at any time. But again, this is not
unusual.

Go ahead.

Q Thanks, Karine. Just to follow up on some questions from my colleagues
about this review in Saudi relations: You said the President is taking
it very seriously, but you also said there’s no person leading it or a
timeline for it to be completed. Is this more of a rhetorical strategy,
or is there actually a review with some sort of substantive plan and
action? Because today there’s been no details about that.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Look, he’s already directed, you know, the Department
of Energy to deliver another 10 million barrels of oil from the
Strategic Petroleum Reserve, and he will continue to direct additional
release as appropriate. So, he’s taken actions. He took ac- —

Q But that has nothing to do with the Saudi relationship.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: No, I’m just — I — no, I get you. But I want you to
know that he is taking this seriously by taking action on day one. You
know? And so he will — he will continue to take those types of actions
and use the tools that he has to make sure that we’re dealing with this
incredibly important issue.

Look, we have said, the President has said from the beginning of his
administration that we need to, you know, redefine this relationship
that we have with Saudi Arabia. This is something that he has said for
some time. And because of their action — they took this action just last
week, the OPEC+ decision that they made. And, you know, I have said this
— I’ve said this plenty of times at this podium already — is that we see
that they’re aligning their energy policies with Russia.

Look, I’m not going to get ahead of this. You will hear from us when we
lay out what actions we are going to take. We’re going to review them.

But again, I’m not going to get ahead. And this is something that we
take very seriously.

Q And does the President have any regrets about his trip to Saudi Arabia
and his meeting with MBS and other Saudi leaders?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: No, I just laid out an agreement — a historic agreement
that was made by Israel and Lebanon. And, no, he does not. He does not
regret it.

Q But that’s not with Saudi Arabia, that agreement; it’s Israel and
Lebanon. I’m just talking about the Saudi portion of that Middle East
trip.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Well, I’m — what I’m saying is that trip was so
important for — for our national interest and also for the American
people. There are a couple of things that came out of this — of that
trip. That was one of them. But also the focus abroad, as you know, was
for the Middle East region.

The President was able to engage, as we all know, with 13 leaders to
discuss a range of issues from Iran to Yemen to the 5G. And if you think
about Yemen, that is very much a part of — of Saudi Arabia — was — it
was very much a part of that Yemen truce that we have seen.

The President has set forth an affirmative agenda for more integrated
and stable region, including Israel’s integration over time into the
Arab world. And on the trip, we concluded historic agreement opening
Saudi-U.S. airspace to Israel — Israeli fights. That is really
important. That happened right there when the President was in the
region. So, the President was the first to visit the region without
Americans in combat operations. And it’s his aim to keep it that way, as
well.

So, there were — there were many deliverables that came out of that
meeting with — with Saudi Arabia. But also being in the Middle East
region, how critical and important it is, as the President is moving
forward with his foreign policy agenda.

So, no, he does not regret it.

Q Going back to the rail talks, would President Biden, you know, get
involved with negotiations again? Or, I guess, what role will the White
House have going forward?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, we stand by to assist in any way that we can. Look,
as you know, the Railway Labor Act establishes the process under which
we are working in.

Under the law, the President has the authority to establish an
independent President Emergency Board, and he did so. He did that back
in July.

And once the Board establishes — publishes its report, the onus returns
to the parties to resolve the dispute themselves through collective
bargaining. So, this is what we’re seeing currently.

So, President Biden continues to support the collective bargaining
process as a way to ensure working people have a voice in their pay and
conditions of work. It is the best method of ensuring that both sides
can live with the contract they had a hand — a hand in developing. And
in addition, the administration will continue to take all appropriate
steps to ensure that the parties stay at the table negotiation in good
faith and continue to put the work necessary to reach a mutual
acceptable solution.

And so, again, it is — it is for them to work through this. We have seen
this for many years. This is not unusual. But we stand by at the ready
to assist.

Q And then, another question on student debt. I saw that the Education
Department released a preview of the application for student loan debt
relief. Why — if that application seems to be ready, why is it not live
today? I guess, why is there no relief going out today for that?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, look, we wanted to make sure that we were — we’d
give you all regular updates, and that’s what you’re seeing right now.
Last week, we shed more detail on our efforts to go after scammers. So,
we were very transparent and showed out — showed our policy and what we
would do in that regard.

This week, we’re giving everyone a preview of what the form would look
like, as you just laid out. And we know that a lot of you were curious
about what it would look like, so we did that. So we’re trying to be
transparent. We’re trying to lay out how this process is going to work.

In short, you know, the form is — is simple, it’s easy to do. It should
take less than five minutes to complete. And it’ll be available on
mobile and desktop this month. And we’ll continue to provide regular —
regular updates. Look, it’s — it’s just taking — it’s taking some time,
but the Department of Education is very much focused on this.

And as soon as we have — as soon as we have information on when that
date will be for application sign-off, we will share that.

But again, we’ve — every week, we’re trying to share additional
information for all of you because we know the curiosity not just for
all of you, but also the borrowers out there who are — who will be
eligible for this.

Go ahead.

Q Yeah, thanks, Karine. So, the International Monetary Fund —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Oh. (Laughs.)

Q (Inaudible.) Yeah, the fund director — the International Monetary Fund
Director of Research has said that the three largest economies in the
world — the U.S., China, and eurozone — will stall next year. Does the
President bear any responsibility for the higher inflation or a stalling
economy?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Look — wait —

Q (Inaudible) policies.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Wait, say that one more time. You’re talking about
global —

Q So, yeah, the IMF Direct- —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Yeah.

Q The IMF Director of Research, with their report — their global report
came out. He said that the three largest economies in the world — the
U.S., China, and the eurozone —

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Oh, I see what you’re saying.

Q — will stall — will stall next year. And so I’m wondering if the
President bears any responsibility with his policies for the inflation
and what they’re calling a stalling economy.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Okay, we got to step back here and look at what the
President walked into here, right? When you think about the ni- — we’ve
been here for about 20 months. When he walked in, businesses were
closed, small businesses were closing down, schools were not open. And
we were in a pande- — during a pandemic, or at the beginning of a
pandemic, where thousands of people were dying a day. That’s what the
President walked into.

What he did is put forth the American Rescue Plan — which, by the way,
was only voted by Democrats — that was able to turn back on our economy,
that was able to get shots in arms, that was able to get the schools
fully open, and that was able to give businesses an opportunity to start
back up and give a little bit of more breathing room, those extra
dollars back into the pockets of Americans. That’s what the President
was able to do.

And he continued that with the Bipartisan Infrastructure legislation. He
continued that with the CHIPS Act. He continued that with the Inflation
Reduction Act. And let’s not forget the work that we have done, this
President has done these past several months to get gas prices down.

Why did this all happen is because of the global challenges that many
countries — countries across the globe have been facing. And what we are
saying is: Because of the work that this — this administration has done,
because of the work that this President has done, we are in a better
place to deal with those global challenges.

Let’s not forget: Russia — the war in — in Ukraine, started by Russia,
has increased food \[prices\], increased gas prices. And the President
has done all that he can and will continue to do the work to bring those
prices down. And the pandemic has also caused these global challenges.

So, look, if anything, his economic policy has been able to get us back
on track in a historic fashion — in a historic fashion, creating 10
million jobs. And that’s where I’ll leave that.

I have to take a couple more and then we got to go.

Q Thanks, Karine. Last week, the Haitian government requested an
international military force to intervene and create a humanitarian
corridor to essentially push back against the anarchy that’s been
created by gangs there. The Secretary-General at the U.N. has called for
a rapid reaction force that would be created in conjunction bilaterally
between Haiti and a third party before a multilateral force could be put
together.

So what is the President willing to do? He’s obviously been very
reluctant to send troops anywhere, much less Haiti. He’s rejected a
request in the past. What’s on the table?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So — so the United States, we’re reviewing the
government of Haiti’s request in coordination with international
partners. And so, we are working to determine how we can hold
accountable those responsible for the violence and increase our support
to help address Haiti’s fuel shortage and security constraints as well
that are disrupting the flow of humanitarian assistance aimed at halting
the spread of  
cholera, as you know, which has now become a major issue in the country.

Our highest priority is ensuring that vital humanitarian assistance
reaches the Haitian people, including critical medical support, to help
address the outbreak. And as — as you know — we have said this before:
Look, you know, we have given — we are one of the countries that’s given
the most assistance to Haiti. And, again, we are going to review the
government’s request at this time.

Q Just to follow up — the significance of this. Obviously, after the
assassination of Haiti’s president July of last year, the government
requested U.S. or U.N. troops to secure the country, and that was
denied. The administration had a special envoy for Haiti who resigned in
protest, in part because he advocated for U.S. troops on the ground, and
the State Department said it was a non-starter.

So, my question is: Is this actually on the table? Has it reached a
point in Haiti where — you know, where you would reconsider that
significant policy?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Look, again, I don’t have — we’re reviewing — we’re
reviewing the request. Don’t have more to add. But it is something that
we have received and we’re going to — we’re going to review.

So, look, you know, what I will say is that, right now, our staff are on
the ground in Haiti working alongside Haitian health workers and NGOs to
address this outbreak that I just mentioned and deliver care to those
who need it. And we have been on the ground for some time.

And since 2021, the U.S. has provided more than $171 million in
lifesaving humanitarian assistance and early recovery risk reduction and
resilience programming to Haiti. And over the past 18 months, the United
States has allocated more than $90 million in security assistance, as
well — to your question about the troops — but we have offered that to
strengthen the Haitian police capacity to counter gangs and establish a
stable security environment under the rule of law.

This support includes advising, training, equipping, and vetting of
special police units, as well as programs to reduce violence in Haiti’s
most affected communities. And that’s the work that we have been doing
for some time now, for the past 18 months.

Q Thanks, Karine.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE: Okay. All right. Okay. Okay, thanks, guys.

END 4:29 P.M. EDT
