---
date: '2022-10-17'
modified_time: 2022-10-17 17:07:58-04:00
published_time: 2022-10-17 17:07:57-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2022/10/17/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-october-17-2022/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre, October 17,\_2022"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

1:28 P.M. EDT    
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Good afternoon, everybody.  So, we have big news
today, and — that is going to benefit as many as 30 million Americans. 
Starting today, hearing aids will cost thousands of dollars less than
before.  
  
President Biden’s executive order on competition called on the FDA to
make hearing aids over the counter without a prescription; that is now a
reality.  This week, retailers across the country, including Walgreens,
CVS, Best Buy, Walmart, Hy- — and Hy-Vee will start selling
over-the-counter hearing aids in store and online.  And adults with mild
to moderate hearing loss can buy these hearing aids without a
prescription, exam, or even fitting, which will lower the average cost
by as much as $3,000.  That’s thousands of dollars going back into the
pockets of Americans and providing a little more breathing room in their
family budgets as well.   
  
Finally, President Biden looks forward to welcoming President Herzog of
Israel to the White House on October 26, a visit that underscores the
enduring partnership and friendship between the United States and
Israel.  They will consult on key issues, including regional and global
challenges of mutual concern, opportunities to deepen Israel’s regional
integration, and ways to advance equal measures of
freedom, <s>prosterity</s> \[prosperity\], and security for both
Israelis and Palestinians.   
  
President Herzog will be in Washington October 25th and 26th for
meetings with a range of interagency officials.  
  
With that, Darlene, you want to kick us off?  
  
Q    Yes, thank you.  I wanted to start by asking: Is the President
aware of the comments that Donald Trump made yesterday about American
Jews — basically saying that they’re “ungrateful” and they better “get
their act together…appreciate what they have…before it’s too late”? 
Given that the White House weighed in pretty forcefully last week to the
racist comments by the Los Angeles city councilmembers, would the White
House denounce these antisemitic comments by the former President as
well?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, Donald Trump’s comments were antisemitic, as you
all know, and insulting both to Jews and to our Israeli allies.  But
let’s be clear: For years — for years now, Donald Trump has aligned with
extremist and antisemitic figures.  And it should be — it should be
called out, to your point, Darlene, just like we called out our
Democratic friends and colleagues last week.  And we will condemn and
call this out as well.   
  
So we need to root out antisemitism everywhere.  It rears its ugly
head.  We need to call this out.   
  
With respect to Israel, our relationship is ironclad and it’s rooted in
shared values and interests.  Donald Trump clearly doesn’t understand
that either.    
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Just to follow up on that, it was announced earlier today that the
rapper formerly known as Kanye West wants to buy the social — the
conservative social media platform Parler.  And this comes after he was
kicked off of Twitter and Instagram last week for his own set of
antisemitic comments.  Is the White House or the President concerned
that should this sale go ahead and that Ye be allowed to buy this
platform, that it would it give him another venue for antisemitic
comments, hateful comments with no — you know, no gatekeeper, no one to
say that’s wrong or anything like that?  
  
So, as you know, when it comes to these types of purchases or
agreements, I can’t speak to that.  So that’s not something — the actual
agreement, you know, or inter- — interaction, I can’t speak to that.   
  
But what I can speak to is hateful rhetoric.  What I can speak to is
insulting rhetoric.  What I ca- — what I can’t speak — can speak to is
antisemitism, which is hateful, it is dangerous.  And we are going to
continue to condemn that type of language, because at the end of the
day, it is disgusting and it is — there is no room — absolutely no room,
no place in our political discourse to be having that type of, really,
vile conversation or comments being made.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  President Biden hasn’t attended any rallies or
events in public in support of candidates in recent weeks.  With the
midterms just three weeks away, will we begin to see him do that more? 
What was — what will his schedule look like?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Wait, can you — wait, can you say your first part?  
  
Q    He hasn’t attended any rallies or public-facing events with
candidates in recent weeks.  What will his schedule look like in the
coming weeks as the midterms get closer?   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So I have to be careful because I can’t — we do — we
do respect the Hatch Act and — and our strict limits from here.  So, I
want to be very, very clar- — careful.   
  
But I would point you to this — the President’s most recent trip to —
out West.  So it’s kind of a bizarre question to ask because he was very
visible last — this weekend and last week.  He was out there.  And
again, I cannot speak to specific, you know, elections or campaigns or
actions that he’s — he’s taken.  But all I will do is point you to his
West Coast trip most recently.  
  
As far as upcoming trips, we’ve announced that he’s going to go to
Pennsylvania.  We’ve announced that he’s going to go to Florida.  He was
just in Colorado, Oregon, and California.  And don’t — don’t have more
beyond the next two trips that I have just laid out.   
  
And he’s going to be out there with congressional Democrats and elected
Democrats, and continue to talk about how congressional Democrats and
the President has delivered for the American people when it comes to
lowering cost, when it comes to making sure that we’re creating jobs
right here in America, when it comes to what we just announced today
with hearing aids.   
  
So, he is — he is proud of the work that we have done here.  And he’s
going to continue to talk and make sure to talk about it in states, and
make sure that the American people hear directly from him.   
  
Q    Karine, a lot of the places that you mentioned were private
fundraisers or official events.  Will we be seeing him appear alongside
candidates in public?  Is that intentional to not have him do stumping
with these candidates and supporting his party?   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Again, I’m going to be very careful about what I say
about ongoing elections.  I am restricted here.  But I will point you to
Portland, Oregon; I will point you to LA, California, where he was out
there with — with his — with fellow Democrats talking about how we have
delivered in the past 19, 20 months.  
  
Q    But will we see him in public with the candidate — the trips —
upcoming trips that you’ve mentioned with John Fetterman, Charlie Christ
when he’s in Florida?  Will cameras be allowed into his events?  Will we
see him alongside these candidates?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m not going to go into the details of what these
events are going to look like.  But we were very clear when we announced
Pennsylvania this week that he is going to be with Lieutenant Governor
Fetterman.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  Does the White House have a reaction to Russia’s
latest drone strikes against Kyiv?   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, so we have talked about Russia’s escalation and
have been very clear about what — what is — what is going to continue to
happen.  The most recent escalation — the United States strongly
condemns Russia’s missile strikes today, which continue to demonstrate
Putin’s brutality.   
  
As you know, President Biden and the G7 leaders met with President
Zelenskyy last week, and President Biden also spoke with President
Zelenskyy, one on one, the day before that G7 conversation.   
  
We are in daily touch with the Ukrainians across the administration,
from the National Security Advisor to the Department of Defense and the
Department of State.   
  
On Friday, we announced an additional $725 million in security package
for Ukraine to provide critical needs for its def- — it — for it to
defend itself — continue to defend itself and bravely.   
  
And last week, Secretary of Defense Au- — Secretary of Defense Austin
brought together 50 defense ministers to announce more security support
for Ukraine, including air defense capabilities.  
  
We will continue — we will — as we have said over the past several
months, to stand with the people of Ukraine for as long as it takes.  We
are going to — we’re going to continue to work with our allies and
partners.  We will continue to impose costs on Russia, hold them
accountable, and — for its war crimes, as we’ve talked about — you’ve
heard directly from the President on the war crimes piece — and its
atrocities, and providing Ukraine with security, economic, and
humanitarian assistance.   
  
Q    The President said on Saturday that he thought Prime Minister
Truss’s initial economic plan was a “mistake.”  Her new finance minister
has announced a pretty complete U-turn on those plans.  Does the White
House welcome that?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, like the President said — you were there — you —
you may have asked him the question.  I’m not a hundred per- — (laughs)
—   
  
Q    I may have.  Yes.  (Laughs.)  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, like the President said this past Saturday — the
question that Jeff may or may not have asked — it is up to the UK to
make these judgments.  It is really up to them to decide what is right
for their — you know, for their own constituents — right? — for their
country.   
  
The UK is a close ally, as you’ve heard us say many times.  And we work
with them on a range of issues, including strengthening the global
economy.  Our focus is on the long term, as we have said many times,
which is growth and investment and increased manufacturing, as you’ve
seen the work that we have done here in Congress and the President with
the CHIPS Act, making sure that we are making — making things right here
in America.  And not only that — we have created about 700,000
manufacturing jobs right here in America in the past 19, 20 months.  
  
So — and also the fiscal discipline that is leading to — to more jobs,
as I just laid out, and rising incomes and rais- — rising incomes, as we
have focused on, and — will make our economy stronger and more resilient
as we have seen because of the work — because of the work that this
President has done when it comes to his economic plan.  
  
Q    On the — back to the drone attacks, does the — does this
administration believe that we are entering a new phase of the war in
Ukraine?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I’m not going to go into any analysis about where
are in this war.  We have been very clear about how we saw — how we’ve
been seeing Russia’s — Russia’s escalation over the past several weeks. 
And so, we — you know, what we will do is to continue to support the
people of Ukraine.  What we will do is to make sure that they have what
they need to continue their brave — the way that they are fighting
bravely on the ground.   
  
We just announced, as I just mentioned, $725 million of new assistance
just this past Friday.  We are in regular touch with Ukrainians — the —
in the administration, the government.  As we — as I mentioned, National
Security Advisor and others in the administration are continuing to talk
— have close conversations about their needs.  And so that’s going to
continue.   
  
We will be in this for as long as it takes.  And we’ve been very clear
about this as well.  This war can end today.  This is a war that can end
right now, today, if — if Vladimir Putin wants it to.  This is his war. 
He started this war.  
  
Q    Just two quick political questions.  As the President prepares to
appear with John Fetterman later this week in Pennsylvania, there’s
obviously, as you know, been a lively debate over Fetterman’s health
following his stroke.  Do you know if the President believes there is
any sort of reason for concern on that point specifically?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, again, because it’s connected to the — to his
election, I want to be really careful of the Hatch Act.  It’s something
that we do respect and adhere to here.   
  
But speaking only about the President’s personal conversation with
Lieutenant Governor Fetterman, the President has found him to be an
impressive individual and — who is just as capable as al- — who has been
— who’s just as capable as always, and who is — who is carrying out his
office.  He’s currently the Lieutenant Governor of Pennsylvania, as we
know, and he’s doing that with great ability and heartfelt concern for
the people of the Commonwealth.  
  
So, yes, the President feels that he is — he is very much capable of
doing the job.  
  
Q    Sorry, you said that was based on a recent conversation that the
two of them had?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, they’ve had — they’ve met many times, as you
know.  Most recently, I believe, on Labor Day — may have been the last
time they’ve seen each other in person.  And they’re going to see each
other again, as you know, this Thursday.  
  
But the President and Lieutenant Governor Fetterman have had many
interactions over the past several months.  
  
Q    And then, just my second political question: At the end of last
week, the President said that his reaction to the Herschel Walker
controversy in Georgia was “negative.”  I wondered if you wanted to
elaborate on that?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, I’m going to just let the President’s word stand. 
I’m not going to elaborate on that from here.  
  
Q    Hey, Karine.  Thanks.  I have a question about hearing aids, but,
first, I wanted to take a stab at the question from earlier.   
  
The President has called this the most significant election — or one of
the most significant elections with abortion rights, voting rights being
on the ballot — a lot of the gains you’ve touted from the — from the
podium.   
  
And, you know, he’s spending this weekend at his vacation home in — in
Rehoboth, according to the schedule you guys released.   
  
I wonder if you can talk about the calculus there, 16 days before the
election, especially during a year when you guys have said Biden would
be getting out into the country more, touting the gains that you guys
have made.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, last week, we spent four days of — in the country,
right?  We left on Wednesday, came back Saturday night — to be more
specific, 2:00 a.m. on Sunday.  Some of us walked into our house at 2:00
a.m. on Sunday.  
  
And the week before that, he spent four days out into the country.  Some
of that was, yes, for the hurricane in Puerto Rico and going to see the
recovery there.  Another day was in Florida to talk to the American
people, who were — Floridians who were in — who were most affected by
the hurricane there.  
  
So, he’s been around.  He just went to Colorado.  He just went to
California.  He just went to Portland.  We’re going to go to
Pennsylvania.  We’re going to go to Florida.  And we’ll have more to
share.  
  
The President takes this very seriously.  Again, I want to be very
careful.  There is the Hatch Act.  I am restricted on what I can say
from the podium and from here.  But the President takes what he has done
in this time during his presidency, his tenure — just about 20-months
tenure — very seriously and wants to talk about what he has done, what
Demo- — congressional Democrats have done to deliver for the American
people.  You mentioned the hearing aids, as I just talked about just
moments ago.   
  
So, yes, there is a lot at stake when you think about the national ban
on abortion that Republicans — extreme Republicans want to do, taking
away the rights of women, taking away a decision that is very difficult
for women to make; when you think about what Republicans want to do with
repealing the Inflation Reduction Act, which is going to lower costs or
take away costs of what we were talking about, with lowering costs on
healthcare, with lowering costs from — because of Medicare, being able
to negotiate when it comes to fighting special interests.  They want to
take that away.  
  
So, the President is going to continue to talk about that.  Again, we
were just out west for four days.  And so, we’re going to continue to go
out there.  And the President is going to continue to talk directly to
the American people.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    I have just one more about the hearing — I did have one.  It wasn’t
just a segue.  But —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Do you have a sense of when the cost savings will begin to accrue? 
Obviously, that’s not instantaneously.  But you talked about prices
lowering.  Is there a sense of, like, when that happens and over what
timeframe?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I don’t have a timeline for you right now.  I’m —
certainly, I can talk to our team to get a specific timeline.  
  
But what is important about this is that the President took action.  He
did an executive order asking FDA to find ways to lower costs for 30
million Americans who do — who do benefit from hearing aids.  That’s 30
million Americans.  That’s going to save them thousands of dollars.  
  
And so, this is an action — a deliberate action that the President
took.  And now we are going to see the benefits of that.  As — I can get
back to you on exactly how quickly that will occur.   
  
But again, this is a huge deal — a big deal.  When we talk about giving
Americans a little breathing room, when we talk about taking inflation
very seriously as one of our number-one economic priorities, this is —
this is an example.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  The Inflation Reduction Act allocates about $80
billion to the IRS, but the IRS is not going to have a commissioner as
of next month when Commissioner Rettig — when his term expires.  Can you
talk about what’s behind the delay for re-nominating — for nominating a
replacement?  And is that going to slow down the overhaul of the
agency?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  It’s not going to slow down the overhaul of the
agency.  We take this very seriously.  I don’t have anything to preview
for you at this time on a — any personnel announcement.  When we do,
we’ll be happy to share that.  
  
Q    Following up on the western swing last week, the President visited
Colorado, California, Oregon.  At one point, a couple of representatives
from Nevada joined him in California.  Why didn’t the President visit
Nevada or Arizona on that trip?  And does he have any plans to visit
those two states in the next three weeks?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Again, I just want to be careful.  I know you didn’t
ask it in the frame of the midterms.  I know that; I’m just being very
careful here.  
  
Q    (Inaudible.)  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I know.  I’m just being very careful.  Hatch Act.  We
respect that here.  
  
Look, you know, the President is going to get out there, as we have said
multiple times, to make sure that he’s talking directly to the American
people about how we are delivering — delivering on our promises,
delivering on how we’re really taking inflation seriously, delivering on
making sure that we’re creating those jobs that the American people
really need at this time.  
  
And so, he’s been on the road nonstop, and he will continue to be on the
road nonstop.  And, you know, where he is needed, he will go.  And if we
have more to add to his travel, we sur- — we certainly will.  
  
As you know, he’s going to Pennsylvania on Thursday.  And November 1st,
he’s going to be going to Florida.  
  
Q    But why not Nevada and Arizona during the western swing?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I just said: If we have more to share, we certainly
will.  I don’t have anything else to add to what I just laid out.  
  
Q    Okay.  And tomorrow, he’s expected to speak about abortion rights
at an event in Washington, D.C.  Why now is he speaking about that
particular issue?  What is the goal of that event tomorrow?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I’ll give you a little bit of preview.  But I
would — I would happily argue that the President has talked about that
particular issue — Roe and protecting women’s rights, protecting the —
the right for women to decide what — to make a really important
decision, difficult decision on her body and her healthcare — from the
beginning and even before the Dobbs decision was made.  
  
But I’ll say this — again, I want to be careful.  I can’t speak from
here on tomorrow’s event beyond what we put out — put into guidance. 
But broadly speaking, I’m happy to take the chance to talk about this
and what the President will be leaning into.  
  
So, again, the assault on women’s access to reproductive healthcare by
Republican officials is an assault.  And the President is going to speak
about that, as he has been for the past several months.  
  
He just talked about — when he was out west, he talked about the
national bans that we’re seeing from extreme Republicans, whether it be
Lindsey Graham’s proposed national ban — abortion ban, or the effort in
Arizona to enforce a law on the books from 1864, before women even had
the right to vote.   
  
And you’ve heard me talk about this before right here at the podium. 
Republican officials are dead set on moving America backwards and
stripping women of their rights.  That is what we have been seeing since
the Dobbs decision in June.  And their obsession with regulating women’s
bodies is not just disturbing, it’s also very dangerous.  
  
So, reporting from USA Today — your own publication — late last week
indicated Walgreens and CVS can deny women medication now, even for
unrelated medical conditions like arthritis.  
  
And this isn’t happening in a vacuum.  This is happening very clearly,
very abruptly.  It’s the product of overreach by Republican officials to
regulate, again, women and their own healthcare, their own private
decisions that they should be making on their own.   
  
It’s backwards, again; it’s dangerous; and it’s severe — in stark
contrast to the President and the commitment that he has to leave these
decisions between a woman and her doctor.  And that’s what you’re going
to hear from him tomorrow.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you so much.  Pakistan, on Saturday, summoned the U.S.
ambassador for an explanation after the President described Pakistan as
the “most dangerous” world — place in the world.  Does the White House
have a reaction to that?  
  
And also, if Pakistan is the “most dangerous” place, then why provide an
assistance for the F-16?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I already spoke to this just the other day.  I
don’t have much to add.  I spoke to this on Friday while we were headed
to — to Portland.  The President — this is something the President has
said before, and I just am not going to add more to what I just laid out
just a couple of days ago.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Karine, good to see you.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Good to see you.  Oh, welcome back.  It’s been a
while.  You’ve been out on the road doing things.  (Laughs.)   
  
Q    Yes.   
  
Questions of foreign and domestic politics.  First, the President’s
comments on the British Prime Minister are intriguing in part because he
doesn’t often comment on the specifics of another world leader’s
policies.  Is there any regret from him about saying that this proposed
tax cuts are a “mistake”?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No.   
  
Q    And when he referred to — who else was he referring to when he said
he “wasn’t the only one” who thought Truss’s policies were a
“mistake”?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have any — any other countries or names to —
to lay out or a name for you at this time.   
  
Q    Okay.  I was just curious if he was talking to world leaders, if
there was somebody in his own team who said, “These are a mistake.”   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I just don’t have anything else to add to that.  
  
Q    On the political questions you’ve gotten — and I –you’re doing a
great job of keeping the lawyers back there happy by not talking about
the Hatch Act.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Thank you.  (Laughter.)  Yes.  It’s important.  
  
Q    But let’s see where he’s been in the last month.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  
  
Q    He’s giving a speech tomorrow in D.C.  He’s given fundraisers in
New Jersey and New York.  He campaigned with Democratic governor
candidates in Massachusetts and Maryland.  And then he was in
California, Oregon, and Colorado next \[sic\] week.   
  
Yes, he has plans to be in Pennsylvania and Florida, but behind closed
doors, with two of the Democratic candidates.   
  
There’s a White House Office of Political Affairs.  Have they been
getting phone calls from candidates in some of those other states —
Arizona, Nevada, Georgia, Wisconsin, Michigan — to say, “We’d love to
have the President come”?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, I don’t have any calls to read out.  We don’t
have any calls or personal conversations to read out.  
  
Look, the way we see it — and the — and the President has been traveling
nonstop.  You did a great job laying out the places that he’s been to. 
And he’s going to continue to be on the road nonstop.  That is not going
to — that is not going to stop.  As you — as you noted, we announced
that we’re going to Pennsylvania and Florida.   
  
Look, he’s going to go where he is needed the most.  And at this time,
we’re not — we don’t have just any additional — we just don’t have any
additional travel to lay out for you.   
  
Again, I’m trying to be very careful here on what I can say.  I am
restricted at the podium because of the Hatch Act.   
  
But again, he has been traveling nonstop.  You just laid out where he
has gone and where he’s going to be in the next couple of days.  And the
President is looking forward to it.  He is looking forward to being out
there.  You all saw him just the past couple of days, talking directly
to the American people, having conversations, laying out his thoughts. 
And you’ll continue to see that.  
  
Q    One other on China.  Does he have any comment on President Xi’s
speech to the Party Congress on Sunday and his anticipated third term?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I don’t want to comment from here on any internal
political process of other countries.  I want to be really careful; I’m
not going to comment from here.  So I’m just going to leave it there.  
  
Q    Thank you, Karine.  Following up on something you said earlier: If
President Biden’s top domestic priority is inflation, why doesn’t he
have more to show for it?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, the President understands — and we’ve talked about
this many times — that inflation is an issue.  High — high cost — cost
is an issue for the American people.  And so, he’s been very clear about
making that his number-one economic priority.   
  
And he has done the work.  And he’s done the work with congressional
Democrats, when you think about the Inflation Reduction Act, which is
going to lower the cost for our seniors — millions and millions of
seniors across the country — when you think about that $2,000 cap on
their own Medicare prescription; when you think about the thousands of
dollars that our seniors pay a month.  Now, that’s going to be $2,000 a
year.   
  
That is the work that congressional Democrats and Republi- — and
congressional Democrats and the President has done.  Republicans did not
vote for that at all.   
  
And what Republicans want to do is that they want to repeal that very
historic piece of legislation that is also going to lower energy costs,
that is also going to help fight climate change.  They want to get rid
of it.   
  
So, there is a contrast that we are going to make, which is how
Republicans are actually going to make things worse and Democrats want
to do the opposite and make things a little easier.   
  
I just talked about the hearing aids, which is going to help 30 million
— 30 million Americans across the country.   
  
Q    But who exactly thinks the President is doing a good job on
inflation?  Because we’ve got a new poll that finds he receives his
lowest job ratings on inflation — net negative 38 points.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We understand that there are challenges that are in
front of us here in this country.  That is why the President has taken
action to lower costs.   
  
Think about gas prices.  You think about healthcare — healthcare
premiums.  You think about Medicare — again, beating special interests
so that we can lower costs, so Medicare can actually be able to lower
costs for senior citizens.   
  
When you think about all of these steps that he has taken to make sure
that that is happening, Republicans — Republicans in Congress refuse —
they refuse to be partners with us on this.  They refuse to help us.  
  
If you think about the American Rescue Plan that has helped create an
economy that is indeed resilient, that created jobs, they refused to
help out.  
  
Q    And to follow up on that, on the American Rescue Plan:  
Have the President’s economic advisors told him that the general
consensus now is that the American Rescue Plan has contributed to
inflation?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, Secretary Yellen — who is incredibly well
respected, as you know, in the economic space — has spoken to this.  So
I will leave her words speak to that — to the statement that you just
made.   
  
Here’s the thing: What the President has done, the issues that he has
worked on — when you think about Medicare, when you think about
healthcare, when you think about energy costs, when you think about the
Inflation Reduction Act, you think about the CHIPS Act — they are
popular.  They are popular with the American people.  
  
They understand — the American people understand, with these pieces of
legislation that we have worked so hard to get across the line, that are
now law, it’s going to change — change the lives of American people.  
  
Q    When?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Now, is there a work — is there work — work to be
done?  There’s always more work to be done.  But we are making — we are
taking the steps to do that.  
  
Again, congressional Republicans, they are doing nothing — absolutely
nothing.  They want to repeal.  They want to take away the advances that
we have made.   
  
Go ahead, Kelly.  
  
Q    When the President either hears or is briefed about  
Senator Warnock in Georgia not saying that he would support or answering
the question about would he support the President in 2024, does he view
that as disloyal to the President personally or to the administration? 
Or does he view it as strategic in a race?  
  
Georgia is a state President Biden won in 2020.  And yet, as a
candidate, the sitting senator would not engage on that question in a
debate format.   
  
So how does the President view something like that?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, again, just to be very mindful of the Hatch Act, I
don’t —  
  
Q    Knowing the Hatch Act stuff.  So, I’m asking President’s feelings
about this.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, I hear the President’s feelings.  Here’s what the
President understands and he knows — is that he is the leader of the
party.  And he is not only that, but he is the President of the United
States, and it is important to him to make sure that he addresses and
deals with the most important issues to the American people.  That is
his focus.   
  
He’s not focused on 2024.  And he’s spoken to that and I’ve spoken to
that, and he said he intends to run.  We’re going to leave that there. 
We’re not going to speak to it any further.   
  
But he has been very clear about how important he sees his job to make
sure that we — we understand that we meet people where they are when it
— when we talk about inflation.  That’s why he’s made this — inflation
the number-one economic — number-one priority when it comes to his
economic policy.   
  
That’s why we have the bipartisan infrastructure legislation — right? —
to really deal with what Americans care about, to make sure that we’re
dealing with infrastructure, dealing with supply chain, creating jobs.  
  
When you think about the American Rescue Plan — right? — to make sure we
put money in people’s pockets, to make sure that we opened schools, got
shots in arms.  Those are the things that the President understood that
was before him that he needed to address.  
  
And so, that’s his focus.  That’s how he’s thinking about things, as
you’re asking me how he’s feeling, how he sees things.  He sees this
opportunity as being President of the United States, as — as being the
person who is able to help create legislation, get things passed —  
  
Q    But does he see that as distancing from fellow Democrats?   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look — look, he sees the importance of the job that he
has in front of him — right? — and which is delivering for the American
people.  You’ve heard him say that over and over again the last couple
of days, and you will continue to hear him say that over the next
several weeks.  
  
Q    A quick one on student loans.  The beta period for applications has
begun.  Do you have a sense of how long that testing process will be or
what people who are interested in applying should know about this early
stage?   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So we’ll have more to say on that soon, but we’ve seen
an overwhelmingly positive response, as well as a strong website
performance since we — we began testing the site this past Friday
night.  So it’s been very positive.   
  
Just a few things applicants over the weekend have said about this I
want to just lay out so folks can hear.  One said it was the easiest
application they’ve ever filled out, took maybe 60 seconds.  That’s a
quote.   
  
Another said, and I quote, “I just filled out the student loan
forgiveness form in about one minute on my phone in my pajamas.  It is
possible that the government actually made a form that’s easy and
straightforward.”  End quote.   
  
Another quote: “It is the simplest government form I’ve ever filled
out.”   
  
So the better — the — the beta testing period remains open.  And the
Department of Education’s technical team will continue to monitor the
site’s performance in real time.  And any borrower who — who submits an
application for debt relief during the — this period will have it
processed when the site officially launches later this month.  Borrowers
won’t need to — to reapply at all.   
  
But again, we’ll have more to share.   
  
Q    No date yet on the official one?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have anything at this time, but we’ll have
more to share.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  Just a follow-up on that.  Do you have an estimate
of how many people applied over the last couple of days?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We’ll have more to share on that. We don’t have a
number at this time.  
  
Q    And the President said last week that gas prices are still too
high.  And he said he’d have more to say on the issue this week.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yes.   
  
Q    Can you give us a sense of what we should expect from the President
on the gas prices?  And does he — does he have new policies in mind, or
is it more of just like a rhetorical  
approach?   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  He’ll definitely have more to say.  As you know, we
don’t want to get ahead — I don’t want to get ahead of the President. 
And once we have something to share, we will.   
  
I know we’re kind of limited on time, so I’m going to go really, really
fast.  Go ahead, Steven.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  You may have gotten into this in response to
Peter’s question, but I want to approach it just somewhat
differently.   
  
A CBS News poll that was out yesterday indicated that two thirds of
voters believe that the administration is not doing all it can and could
be doing more to curb inflation.  What does the White House think?  Does
the White House think it’s — it’s doing all it can to curve inflation?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  What we understand is — you know, we understand that
the American people are going through a difficult time.  And we have
said that.  You’ve heard the President say that.  And we understand how
it is tough — it is a tough time for them.   
  
That’s why we’re doing stuff like the hearing aid.  Thirty million
people saving $3,000; that’s a big deal.  That is a big deal.  And
that’s because of the action that the President took by signing this
executive order, as you all know, a couple of — a couple of months
ago.   
  
That’s why he’s worked so hard to get those gas prices down by more than
a dollar a gallon from the highest — the highest points that we have
seen just a couple of months ago.  And he’ll continue to work on that. 
I was just asked by your colleague about what we’re going to announce. 
You’ll hear directly from the President.   
  
That’s why the Inflation Reduction Act is so critical and key, because
it’s going to lower energy costs and it’s going to lower healthcare
costs.   
  
We get it.  We get it.  I know you’re asking me about a specific — a
specific poll, a specific number from your own publication.  And we get
it.  We understand.  But we’re going to continue to do the work.  It’s
not going to stop us.  And you have seen the results.  You have seen the
results from this administration.   
  
I’m going to just keep moving because we don’t have a lot of time.  Go
ahead.  
  
Q    The President has talked about there being consequences for Saudi
Arabia after the OPEC production cut.  I’m wondering if you can give us
any update on that — whether that would be something that would come
soon and what it might include.  
  
Senator Coons has said that he thinks the most likely action — or one of
the most likely actions is a halting of future arms sales, for
instance.  Would the administration support that?  What’s — what’s the
next shoe to drop on Saudi Arabia?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So — so, I’m not going to get ahead of — of the
President.  As — as we have said, you’ve heard from the National — our
National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan — just yesterday, he was on one
of the Sunday shows — the options include changes to our approach; to
security assistance, to your question, to Saudi Arabia.   
  
The President has said since taking office that the United States needs
a different approach, a different sort of relationship with Saudi
Arabia.  So that is in — in line with what he has been saying for some
time.   
  
And remember, when we came into office, we put a freeze on all offensive
arm sales to Saudi — Saudi Arabia just last year.   
  
So, there’s nothing imminently moving right now in Congress regarding
this.  So, there is time for the President to have those consultations,
those conversations, to make those decision.  He wants to be — he wants
to be methodical and strategic about these — these conversations.   
  
So, when we have something to share, we will.  Don’t want to get ahead
of him.  
  
Q    So it sounds like he wants to move either after Congress or jointly
with Congress as opposed to unilaterally?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  He definitely wants to have a conversation with
Congress.  This is something that Jake Sullivan said himself.  When it
comes to this — this relationship with Saudi Arabia, it was done in a
bipartisan way if you look at the last several decades, and we want to
be able to do that as well as we move forward with re- — realigning,
readjusting our relationship with Saudi Arabia.  
  
Q    Elon Musk has been weighing in a lot on the Russia-Ukraine issue
recently, over the weekend saying that Russia views Crimea like the U.S.
views Hawaii and if Russia faces destruction, nuclear war will be
imminent.  Fiona Hill told Politico today that it’s very clear that Musk
is transmitting a message for Putin.   
  
I’m wondering whether the administration has any comment on what Musk
has been saying about the Russia-Ukraine war and, in particular, whether
it’s relayed anything to partners and allies about whether Musk is
reflecting an American view or not.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I’ll say this — and the President has been very
clear, we have been very clear about this, and he believes decisions
about negotia- — negotiations or decisions about Ukraine are decisions
for Ukraine to make.  And nothing about Ukraine without Ukraine.  And I
will leave it there.  
  
We’ve been very, very clear — clear on that.  Our allies and partners
have been very, very clear on that.  And I won’t say more from here.  
  
Q    Is Musk helping or hurting?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, I won’t say more from here.  I’ve been very
clear about what we believe.  And this is for Ukraine to decide.  
  
Go ahead.  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you, Karine.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’ll come to the back.  
  
Q    My colleague is reporting today that five current administration
officials who worked with the CBP Commissioner have described him as
unengaged in his job and seen him fall asleep during multiple meetings. 
Does the White House have a comment to that?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Are you talking about Commissioner Magnus?  
  
Q    Yeah.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, under Secretary Mayorkas’s leadership, we’re
— we’re securing the border, taking thousands of smugglers off the
streets, installing new technologies to catch more drugs and
traffickers, and making historic investments in — in the Department of
Homeland Security.  That’s what we have seen, that’s what we have done
in the past 20 months.   
  
We’ll continue to focus our efforts on rebuilding the immigration system
that the prior administration just gutted, decimated.  And Commissioner
Magnus plays a key role on all of this.  That’s how we view his role.  
  
Q    Karine, can I follow up?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead.  Go ahead.  Go ahead.  I’m just going to go
— go ahead.  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Yeah, thanks, Karine.  Quickly, so you talked about reviewing the
Saudi Arabian relationship because their oil production cut sides them
with Russia.  Is the same review going to happen with China, who has
been buying 50 percent more oil from Russia as well as propping up the
Russian economy?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have anything to lay out with you on that
specific question.  
  
Q    And one more then on inflation. On inflation, can you give us a
timeline?  You’ve laid out eloquently what the President has been
doing.  Is there a timeline for when Americans can start feeling some
economic pain relief?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So in regards to the Inflation Reduction Act, early
next year, they will see some of the — some of the pieces of that when
you thou- — think about in energy costs, when you think about the
Medicare kind of benefits from that.  So, we’ll see some movement on
that early next year.   
  
But when we talk about inflation, gas prices, that’s been something
that’s — the American people have seen for the past several months,
several weeks, and as — as costs have been coming down.  And the hearing
aids that I just laid out, that’s something that once I have a clear
timeline, we’ll — that Americans are going to see — that I’ll share with
you on all of that.  
  
But look, we’re going to continue —  
  
Q    But that’s starting now.  What about — 18 months ago, when the
President took office, inflation and gas prices started rising then?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, 18 months ago, the President signed the American
Rescue — Rescue Plan more than — about — back in April of 2021.   
  
And that helped the American people, that helped start reopen small
businesses, that helped reopen schools.  That was something that was so
critical to meet the moment that the American people were going through,
that helped put shots in arms.   
  
That matters.  That was part of the President’s economy plan.  Right? 
That was part of his policy that helped us gain these jobs back.  And
you’re — you’re with — you — you follow economy.  You’re always asking
me economy questions.  And it — we created more than 10 million jobs. 
That’s because of what the President was able to do.  So, we met that
moment.   
  
So you’re asking me about 18 months ago.  That’s what was going on 18
months ago.  Thousands of people were dying a day because of COVID when
the President walked in.   
  
The American Rescue Plan, which is only — again, only congressional
Democrats passed — only congressional Democrats passed.  They did — on
their own — and was able to — to make sure that we got the country back
on its feet.  
  
All right.  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you.  I have a couple of questions about the new program for
Venezuelan migrants.  When can Venezuelans start submitting their
applications?  When will that application processes start?  Do you have
any details?   
  
And also, the administration mentioned last week that there was going to
be some kind of security assistance for the regional partners.  Do you
have any details on that?  Thank you.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So your two — your first question, first: Support is —
will be able to apply in the upcoming days. Information on how to apply
will be found on the DHS website, so I would refer folks there, to the
website.  
  
On the security assistance that was announced, as you just mentioned,
last week: Again, I would refer you to DHS — the Department of Homeland
Security — and also the government of Mexico as well — they’re — for
their announcement that they’ve made for information on the coordinated
response there.  
  
I’ll take — I’ll take one last question.  
  
(Cross-talk by reporters.)  
  
I’ll take one last — go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you so much.  I just have some quick questions on Iran. 
First of all, is the administration mulling sanctions over the use of
Iranian-made drones in Ukraine?  And do you believe it’s a violation of
U.N. Resolution 2231?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, just very quickly, I can’t speak to these specific
reports.  But, as you know, we have been warning since July — the
National Security Advisor, Jake Sullivan, was here at this very podium
when he warned about this back in July — that Iran was planning to sell
UAVs to Russia for use against Ukraine.   
  
We also exposed publicly that Russia has received drones from Iran; that
this was part of Russia’s plan to import hundreds of Iranian UAVs of
various types; and that Russian operators continue to receive training
in Iran on how to use these very systems.  
  
So, there is extensive proof of their — of their use by Russia against
both military and civilian targets there.  
  
You’ll als- — you’ll all — you’ve all have seen as well the reports this
morning of what appear to be an Iranian drone striking downtown Kyiv. 
Yet, Iran continues to lie about this.  They have not been truthful
about this and deny providing weapons to Russia for use in Ukraine.  
  
Meanwhile, according to these new reports, Iran is considering selling
still more destructive weapons to support an invasion they claim to
oppose.   
  
Now, what we’re doing here: We’ll continue to vigorously enforce U.S.
sanctions on both the Russian and Iranian arm trade — that’s what we’ll
do from here; make it harder for Iran to sell these weapons to Russia. 
And we’ll stand with our partners throughout the region against that
Iranian threat.  
  
Q    And then, over the weekend, VOA Persia got some worrying reports
from human rights activists in Tehran who said that authorities at Evin
Prison shot at prisoners who were trying to escape the fire.  Does this
change anything about the White House’s view on these escalating
protests in Iran?  And what might be the consequences of actions like
that?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, we’ve — the President — you’ve heard from
the President directly just — just this past weekend when he talked
about how gravely concerned he is about the intensifying violent
crackdown on peaceful protesters, on brave — the brave women in Iran and
their allies.  And he talked about, you know, how he — you know, he’s
proud of how much they’re fighting for their equal rights, for their
basic rights.  That’s what we’re seeing from the Iranian civilians.  
  
The Iranian government has now killed, as you all know, more than 200
people in its crackdown, according to credible reports by human rights
organizations, and we condemn — we condemn the Iran authorities and that
— that have arrested and fired at peaceful protesters; the targeted
arrests of journalists, human rights activists, teachers, and cultural
figures; and the continued disruption of the Internet inside Iran.  
  
You have heard from us the sanctions that we have put forth through the
— the Treasury Department, and we will — we will have more to share when
we do — when we can.  
  
Q    And then, finally, amid all of this, is the JCPOA still a
priority?  How is — how is the administration keeping it top of mind?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, my colleague at the State Department spoke to this
last week, and I’ll just reiterate what he laid out, which is: The door
for diplomacy will always remain open.  But, as of now, we don’t see a
deal coming together anytime soon.   
  
Meanwhile, regardless of the nuclear talks, we will continue to confront
Iran’s behavior in the region, protect our — protecting — protect our
troops, including with military forces when necessary, and support the
brave Iranian people who are demanding for their basic rights —   
  
Q    So are the nuclear talks dead?  Is that what you’re telling us?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — they are demanding for their basic (inaudible) and
dignity, which this regime has long denied them.  
  
So, the United States stands with Iranian women and all the citizens of
Iran who are inspiring the world — you heard the President say this
himself just a couple of days ago — with their bravery.   
  
And we’ll continue to take action to impose costs on those who commit
violence against peaceful protesters or otherwise seek to suppress their
rights.  
  
Again, we don’t see a deal coming together anytime soon, to answer the
question in the back.  
  
All right, everybody, I’ll see you tomorrow.  Thank you.

2:14 P.M. EDT
