---
date: '2022-10-21'
published_time: 2022-10-21 16:22:22-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2022/10/21/press-gaggle-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-en-route-dover-delaware/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Gaggle by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre En Route Dover,\_Delaware"
---
 
Aboard Air Force One

2:19 P.M. EDT  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay, everybody.  Happy Friday.

Q    Happy Friday.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right, today we’re on our way to Delaware State
University, a historically Black college and university, where over 75
percent of students received a Pell Grant, meaning they could be
eligible for up to $20,000 in debt relief under the President’s plan.

While there — while there, the President will provide an update on the
successful launch of his program and highlight the life-changing impact
student debt relief will have on millions of working- and middle-class
Americans, particularly borrowers of color.

And as the President said earlier today: Even after providing
middle-class families the relief they need and deserve, we’re still
reducing the deficit by record levels.  This year, the deficit fell by
$1.4 trillion, the largest one-year drop in American history. 

The President will be joined by Delaware State University President Tony
Allen, Senator Tom Carper, Senator Chris Coons, Congresswoman Lisa Blunt
Rochester, Governor John Carney, and additional community leaders and
students.

Earlier this week — sorry, guys, hold on one second.  Okay. 

Earlier this week, the President spoke about additional actions to bring
the price of gas down.  So I was — I also wanted to note on this Friday
— this Friday afternoon that gas prices nationwide came down every
single day this week.  And we are seeing steeper declines in state
across — in states across the country that had seen recent upticks.

Nationwide, gas prices have come down one — $1.20 per gallon since June,
saving American families with two cars about 130 bucks per month on
average.

Finally — finally, the week ahead, a quick overview of what’s going to
happen next week.

On Monday, the President and the First Lady will host a reception to
celebrate Diwali in the East Room.  The Vice President and the Second
Gentleman will attend.

On Wednesday, the President looks forward to welcoming President of
Israel to the White House, a visit that underscores the enduring
partnership and friendship between the United States and Israel.  They
will consult on key issues including regional and global challenges of
mutual concern, opportunities to deepen Israel’s regional integration,
and ways to advance equal measures of freedom, prosperity, and security
for both Israelis and Palestinians.

On Friday, the President and Vice President will travel to Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania.  The President and the Vice President will participate in
a reception for the Pennsylvania Democratic Party. 

You can expect more details on that travel early — on travel, in
general, early next week.  But this is just a little bit of flavor for
all of you.

Darlene, you want to kick us off?

Q    Yes.  Thanks for the week ahead.  Is there any comment from the
White House on the fact that the January 6 committee has now issued a
subpoena?  And I’m not asking you specifically about Trump but about
where we are in the country where a former President is now being
subpoenaed to testify before Congress.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, I’m just going to speak more broadly on this, as
we do not comment on any ongoing investigation.  The Department of
Justice is an indepen- — is independent and when it — in regards to any
investigation.

But the President has spoken to this many times.  It is important to get
to the bottom of January 6.  As you have heard him say, January 6 was
one of the darkest day in our nation.  And it’s important for the
American people to know exactly what happened so that it doesn’t — so
that doesn’t happen again, so we don’t repeat that very dark day in our
nation. 

Q    And second question.  Sorry, second question.  An Afghan family is
accusing a U.S. Marine of taking away their child as they were evacuated
from Afghanistan.  Do you know if the White House has been briefed on
the situation?  And has it been in touch with the military or the State
Department or DOJ?  And is anyone reaching out to the Afghan couple that
is accusing the Marine of stealing their child?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, as you know, these are — I have not even seen
those reports.  But this is something that we would take very
seriously.  I don’t have any comments on it at this time.  I would have
to check in with our team to see if we have been briefed about it and
what — and what our statement would be on this particular issue.

Q    It was the subject of an AP story yesterday, so you can read our
story.  (Laughter.)

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, I’m always — I always read your story.  Yesterday
we were on the road, as you know, in Pennsylvania, so it was a long
day.  But, yes, we’re happy to check in with the team.

Q    Should former President Trump comply with the January 6 committee
subpoena?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Again, I’m not going to get into any specifics on that
— on that — on the subpoena.  Again, I would refer you to the Department
of Justice.  We’re just not going to comment about that from here.  It’s
an independent investigation.  We’re just not going to comment.

Q    Overall — overall, though, is it important to comply with
congressional subpoenas? 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Again, all I could say is what I said at the top when
Darlene asked me the question, which was: It is important to get to the
bottom of what happened on January 6.  It was a very dark day in our
nation.  It was an attack on our democracy.

And as the President has said many times, it is important to get to the
bottom of it and for the American people to know exactly what happened
so that it does not — we do not repeat that day.

Q    Karine, quick question on the EU agreeing to slap sanctions on Iran
for supplying drones to Russia to fight Ukraine.  How soon does the U.S.
plan to match that?  Can you talk a little bit about what’s under
discussion?  How soon does the President plan to respond to it?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So let me just say a couple of things here.

So — my gosh, it is so bumpy.  (Laughs.)  (Air Force One experiences
turbulence.)

So, the United States is pursuing all means to expose, deter, and
confront Iran’s provision of these — of these munitions against the
Ukrainian people. 

We will continue to vigorously enforce all U.S. sanctions on both the
Russian and Ukrainian — I’m sorry, Iranian — pardon me — arms trade;
make it harder for Iran to sell these weapons to Russia; help the
Ukrainians have what they need to defend against these threats.  And we
will stand with our partners throughout the Middle East region against
the Iranian threat.

We are also working with our Allies and partners, including the United
Nations, to address Iran’s dangerous proliferation of weapons to
Russia.  
  
As you know, on Wednesday, just two days ago, in New York, we began the
process — together with Ukraine, the UK, and France — to hold Iran
accountable for its provisions of UAVs to Russia.  
  
This closed meeting in the U.N. Security Council kicked off a process
under the U.N. Security Council Resolution 2231 led by a panel of
experts.  
  
So, again, we’re going to continue to work with our allies and
partners.  
  
Q    And then, one quick one on Ukraine and Starlink.  Elon Musk has
publicly withdrawn his request to have the Pentagon fund the Starlink
Internet service in Ukraine.  But without a contract, Ukraine’s Internet
service sort of remains at his whims.  Is the U.S. considering at any
point perhaps starting a procurement process for Ukraine’s Internet
service?  Or is the administration and the White House satisfied with
Musk’s promise that he will keep it running?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, I — I’m — I — you know, I’m not going to
share — I don’t have any — anything specific to share on that.    
  
But what I would say is we continue to look at all options to support
the courageous women and also men of Iran fighting for their rights.  As
you know, we’ve taken steps to make it easier for Iranians to access the
Internet, including through facilitating greater access to secure
outside platforms and services.  We continue to look at all options in
coordination with the private sector and Department of Treasury.  
  
Q    Would a contract be an option?   
  
Q    A follow-up on Iran.  
  
Q    Would a contract be an option?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m — I — again — I’m not — I’m just not going to
speak to that.  We are going to do everything that we can to make sure
that we continue to support the brave men and women of Iran who are who
are fighting for, again, their basic rights.  
  
Go ahead, Jen.  
  
Q    Karine, two questions on energy.  The Turkish foreign minister
today weighed in and said the U.S. is “bullying” Saudi Arabia, in light
of its OPEC+ decision, and this bullying is not right.  Do you have any
response to that, to the Turkish government?  Are you concerned that
you’re losing influence with partners in the Middle East, particularly
the NATO Ally, Turkey?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So we’ve been very clear about the OPEC+ decision and
how we fou- — we found it to be shortsighted, especially in the time of
what we’re seeing with our global — our global markets.  And so we
believe that it was a mistake.  We believe it was shortsighted.  And —
and the President was very clear about that.  We’ve been very clear
about that.   
  
It’s going to help — it’s going to hurt the countries who have — you
know, low- — lower — lower economies and middle — middle-economy
countries.   
  
And so, again, the President is going to be reevaluating his
relationship with Saudi Arabia; it’s something that he has said from the
beginning of this administration.  We’re going to do it in a bipartisan
way.  And he’s going to do it in a strategic — in a strategic way.   
  
And as soon as we have more to say about that, we will say it.  
  
Q    No response to Turkey or any —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, we’ve been very — I mean, we’ve —  
  
Q    (Inaudible.)  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, we’ve been very clear about what we think
about the OPEC+ decision, and we’ve said it multiple times.  That
doesn’t — that doesn’t change.  
  
Q    Karine, we’re en route to Dover.  And next week, it sounds like
you’re going to Philly, which is awfully close to Delaware.  Is this
part of what Ron Klain the other day was talking about is a low — a
low-prile \[sic\] — low-profile strategy by design of not repeating,
like, the failed 2018 and 2010?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, the President — first of all, I have to be —
make — be very careful here — right? — with the Hatch Act and not say —
and not talk about —  
  
Q    It doesn’t apply here.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — (laughs) —  
  
(Air Force One crew member asks press and staff to sit down.)  
  
Yes, okay.  All right.  Okay.  Well, we’re being asked to take a
seat.   
  
But very, very quickly, the President has been very clear that, you
know, his focus is on delivering and continue to talk about how
congressional Democrats and how he has delivered for the American people
in the past 19, 20 months.  And that is an economy that works for
everyone, that’s — that works from — that — that is from the bottom up,
middle — middle out.   
  
And if you think about the Inflation Reduction Act, it’s going to lower
costs, which is something that’s so incredibly important for the
American people, and you have Republicans that want to do the complete
opposite.  They want to increase energy costs.  They want to increase
healthcare costs while we are trying to make sure we lower those costs,
especially in the time when inflation is our top priority and it is
really squeezing the American people.  We’re doing everything that we
can to make sure that we lower costs for the American people.   
  
Q    Karine, (inaudible).  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I got to go.  They’re literally — they’re telling us
to sit down.

2:29 P.M. EDT
