---
date: '2022-10-04'
published_time: 2022-10-04 19:33:49-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2022/10/04/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-october-4-2022/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre, October 4,\_2022"
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

1:43 P.M. EDT   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Good afternoon, everybody.   
  
Q    Good afternoon.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Sorry for a very long two minutes.  Apologize for
that.  (Laughter.)  I am aware — I know, I know.  Apologies.  
  
Okay.  Tomorrow, President Biden and First — the First Lady will travel
to Fort Myers, Florida, to reaffirm his commitment to supporting the
people of Florida as they recover and rebuild from the devastating
storm.  While there, the President will meet with small-business owners
and local residents impacted by Hurricane Ian and thank the federal,
state, and local officials working around the clock to provide
lifesaving assistance, restore power, distribute food and water,
removing debris, and begin rebuilding efforts.   
  
Governor DeSantis, the FEMA Administrator Deanne Criswell, and other
state and local officials will also provide the President with an
operational briefing on the current response and recovery efforts  
  
This morning, President Biden spoke with President Zelenskyy to
underscore that the United States will never recognize Russia’s
purported annexation of Ukrainian territory and will continue to support
Ukraine as it defends itself from Russian aggression.  
  
President Biden informed President Zelenskyy that the United States is
providing a new $625 million security assistance package to Ukraine as
they continue to defend their country from Russia’s invasion.  
  
Together with our allies and partners, the United States has been
delivering an unprecedented amount of weapons and equipment that
Ukraine’s force — forces are uti- — utilizing very efficiently,
including to retake their territory that has been seized illegally by
Russia.   
  
This security assistance package is the 22nd utilization of Presidential
— Presidential Drawdown Authorities for Ukraine by the Biden
administration, and we thank Congress for providing the additional
authorities in the continuing resolution to make this possible.  
  
Today’s package includes 4 HIMARS, 32 Howitzers, 200 mine-resistant
vehicles, and hundreds of thousands of rounds of artillery and mortar
ammunition.   
  
Throughout this year, the United States has rallied the world to support
the people of Ukraine as they defend their freedom and democracy against
Russian aggression.  As we are demonstrating again today, the United
States will continue to provide Ukraine with key capabilities to meet
their evolving battlefield requirements.  
  
Also this morning, as you may have seen, Micron announced that it will
invest $20 billion this decade and up to $100 billion over the next 20
years in chips manufacturing in Upstate New York.  
  
This announcement is just the latest historic investment in America
spurred by President Biden’s economic plan and his commitment to
rebuilding American manufacturing.  
  
Micron’s multibillion-dollar investment in American chipmaking will
strengthen our nation’s economy and create up to tens of thousands of
good-paying jobs.  In fact, Micron estimates they will pay an average
salary of more than $100,000 per year.    
  
This is the latest in a series of historic business investments across
the country, from New York to Ohio, Idaho, Arizona, North Carolina, and
more.  And they show the value in the President’s work to rebuild our
infrastructure and supply chains here at home so that we are creating
jobs and bringing down prices over time by making more in America.  
  
Today marks 100 days since the Supreme Court’s Dobbs decision, and
President Biden and Vice President Harris are convening the second
meeting of the President’s Task Force on Reproductive Healthcare
Access.   
  
This morning, we released a report from Jen Klein, who directs the
Office of Gender Policy Council, to the <s>Vice</s> President and Vice
President on the onslaught of radical and dangerous actions from
Republican officials since the Dobbs decision.  That includes, of
course, Senator Graham’s proposed national abortion ban and, in Arizona,
a court decision to reinstate an extreme abortion ban that sends Arizona
— Arizona women back to 1864.    
  
As a result of these actions, millions of women are facing barriers to
critical healthcare.  And doctors and nurses are facing criminal
penalties, including being thrown in jail, for providing that essential
healthcare.    
  
These extreme abortion bans also have consequences that extend beyond
abortion, including reports of women being denied prescriptions at
pharmacies to treat miscarriage and conditions like arthritis and
cancer; and threats to contraception, including for college students as
well.  
  
In today’s taskforce meeting, the President and Vice President will hear
directly from healthcare providers across the country about the impact
that abortion bans are having on their work.  And they will also be
clear that the only way to fully protect a woman’s right to choose is
for Congress to act by codifying Roe into law.  
  
Finally, a note on junk fees.  Last week, at the White House Competition
Council meeting, President Biden put a spotlight on so-called “junk
fees.”  He explained that too often companies impose hidden or surprise
fees that prevent customers from seeing the full price of what they’re
buying and hit the most vulnerable Americans the hardest.  
  
The President highlighted progress that agencies have already made to
address these fees, which will lower costs for American families by over
$3 billion this year.   
  
And we’re pleased to share that the Biden-Harris administration has now
delivered even more results for consumers.  The Consumer Financial
Protection Bureau issued a new order requiring Regions Bank to pay
nearly $200 million for illegal, surprise overdraft fees, including
refunding $141 million to consumers, paying $50 million penalty, and
stopping the illegal charges going forward.  
  
With that, Colleen, do you want to kick us off?  
  
Q    Sure.  Thank you.  Has the White House given any more thought to a
public health emergency regarding women’s reproductive health,
especially as the, sort of, effects of abortion bans extend beyond
abortion into miscarriage and other aspects of women’s reproductive
health?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We don’t have anything to announce at this time.  But
as you — as you are aware, we have made this a priority, the President
and the Vice President, especially while we’re seeing these extreme
laws.  We see that the national bans from Republicans — the President
and Vice President are doing everything in their power to protect women
seeking abortion: their right to travel to states that provide care,
their right to medication and contraception, and their right to patient
privacy.  
  
Look, we’ve taken a range of actions to ensure access.  As you know,
we’ve taken some executive actions very early on.  And today you’ll hear
from the President of \[sic\] Vice President — and Vice President on
what the additional actions that we will be taking.  
  
But we have been very clear — you heard that in my — in the beginning of
the briefing and what I just said: We are going to continue to encourage
Congress to codify Roe.  That is how we believe women’s rights will be
protected.  
  
Q    One more question.  On oil prices: They’re up today on the
expectation that OPEC+ is going to cut production by an estimated
million barrels a day.  Would a production cut endanger global
supplies?  And how does the President plan to respond?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, just to be very clear here on that piece, we’re
just not going to comment on any OPEC action until OPEC acts, as you all
know.   
  
In any event, we will continue to take steps to protect American
consumers.  Our focus — and it’s been very clear for the past several —
several months — has been on taking every step to ensure markets are
sufficiently supplied to meet demand for a growing global economy.  
  
And thanks to this President’s efforts, we — and his historic actions
that he has taken, energy prices have declined sharply from their highs
and American consumers are paying far less at the pump than they were
several months ago.  And again, it’s because of the historic steps that
this President has taken.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  Is there — given the 100 days out from the Dobbs
ruling, is there a concern in this White House, in the administration
that this issue is falling in terms of top importance issues that voters
are going to be voting on come the midterms, given that we’re now seeing
these polls that show that it ranks below the economy and below
inflation —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So I want to —  
  
Q    — as the — his calendar moves forward (inaudible)?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  As you can — as you can imagine, I want to be very
careful on how I talk about polls and how I talk about — I cannot talk
about, speak to elections.  
  
What I can speak to is: This was — if you think about Roe v. Wade and if
you think about how it was a constitution- — it was a constitutional law
for almost 50 years.  It protect women for almost 50 years.   
  
And in June, when the Dobbs decision was made by the Supreme Court, it
took away nearly 50 years of protections for women.  And we have seen
women respond.  We have seen Americans respond just across — across the
country on — on different initiatives, clearly.  And they have been —
made their — their voices very loud and clear.  And so, I expect that we
will continue to see that type of reaction, we’ll continue to see not
just from women but from Americans speak up.  
  
And what we have encouraged, what the President has continued to
encourage is to make sure that we — we, you know, get Congress to act. 
The way that we protect women, the way that we protect privacy, the way
we protect contraception, the way that we protect healthcare for women
and for women to make these decisions — they are — these are difficult
decisions that women — that women are making, that they should be making
for themselves with their — with their healthcare provider.  No one else
should be making that decision — no Republican official — no Republican
official in their state or nationally.  
  
And so, we’re going to continue to make that very clear.  
  
Q    And then quickly on North Korea, we’re seeing a record number of
launches this year.  This is the fifth test in just over the week. 
What’s the White House assessment on why this seems to be ramping up? 
And then, in terms of a response, when a similar missile strike happened
in 2017, you saw then-President Trump send these supersonic bombs. 
Could you walk us through the difference in the response approach from
this administration to the last, if you’re taking a quieter one?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So since this is the first time I’m being asked this
question, I want to lay out just a couple of things here.  As we noted
in our statement last night, we strongly condemn Democratic Re- —
People’s Republic of Korea — DPRK’s dangerous and reckless decision to
launch a long-range ballistic missile over Japan.  The launch was a
danger to the Japanese people, destabilizing to the region, and a clear
— a clear violation of the United Nations Council’s — Security Council
resolutions.   
  
The United States will continue its efforts to limit the DPRK’s ability
to advance its prohibited — prohibited ballistic missile and weapons of
mass destruction programs, including with allies and U.N. partners.  
  
As it relates to our response: Last night, National Security Advisor
Jake Sullivan and Secretary Blinken spoke with their Japanese and
Republic of Korea counterparts.  This morning, President Biden spoke
with Prime Minister Kishida of Japan, where he reinforced our ironclad
commitment to Japan’s defense.  And following this launch, U.S. Marine
Corps fighters joined Japan air self-defense fighters in a bilateral
exercise over the Sea of Japan to enhance operational readiness and
responses to regional threats while defending our nations and to further
strengthen regional peace and stability.   
  
Additionally, just to add here, U.S. Indo-Pacific Command and Republic
of Korea — ROK — personnel conducted a bilateral exercise as well over
the West Sea to showcase combined deterrent and dynamic strike
capabilities while demonstrating our nation’s bilateral
interoperability.   
  
We will continue to coordinate the immediate and longer-term response
bilaterally, trilaterally with the Republic of Korea and with the
international community.  So we have been pretty — talking to our
counterparts; having — taking bilateral, trilateral actions over the —
over the last 12, 20 hours or so.  And so, we’ll continue to do that.  
  
Q    Thank you, Karine.   And just a quick follow-up on that.  Was there
sort of any consensus that was reached on how to grapple with these
missile launches considering we’ve been seeing them consistently?   
  
And, you know, we understand that the President had this conversation
and Jake had this conversation, but is the sense that the White House is
just, sort of, resigned to continuing to let these launches take place? 
Or, you know, are there specific, sort of, points of action that you can
share —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, I just laid out points of actions that we have
taken — these bilateral actions.  So, certainly we’re taking —  
  
Q    — for this — for this launch?    
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, we’re taking this very, very seriously, for
sure.  And we have been — and we have commented — as you know, and
you’ve heard us comment on — on any missiles that have been launched
over the last several months.   
  
Look, our position though on this is: Diplomacy and dialogue remain the
same.  That has not changed.  And so, this action underscores the urgent
need for dialogue and diplomacy.  We understand that, and that’s what we
have been calling for.   
  
Our goal remains the complete denuclearization of the Korean Peninsula. 
We remain prepared to engage in serious and sustained diplomacy to make
tangible progress towards that end.  And we remain prepared to meet with
the DPRK without preconditions.  You’ve heard me say this multiple times
from this podium over the last several months.   
  
And it’s unfortunate that the DPRK has not responded to our outreach. 
But, again, we are committed to our allies.  I just laid out what we
have done in the past several hours to show that commitment.  And that’s
— that’s what we’re — how we’re going to continue to move forward.   
  
Q    And do you think, you know, this missile launch was sort of a
direct response from North Korea to the Vice President visiting the DMZ
recently?   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, I’m not going to — going to get into the
hypotheticals or get into — into the mind of the North Korea leader.  I
can just lay out our response to this current, most recent missile
launch and, again, our commitment to our partners in the region.   
  
Q    And just to follow-up on, I think, on both of those to some
degree.  I understand what the actions that the U.S. and its allies have
taken, but do you guys have an assessment — there’s a lot of general
theories as to why there’s been kind of a rapid escalation over the
course of the last several months.  Do you have an assessment as to the
why?  What are they looking for?  What do they want?  What is the
administration’s view of the goal behind these escalations?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m not going to get into any assessments from here. 
Clearly, that is — you know, that is something that we are always
keeping a close eye on.  What I can speak to is our response and our
continued efforts to limit the DPRK’s ability to advance its ballistic
missile and weapons.  And that’s what we’re going to continue to move
forward.   
  
Again, I laid out our response.  I’m not going to get into analysis or
specifics as to the why.   
  
Q    Okay.  And then on Iran, there’s been a notably different posture
from administration this time around with the protests when compared to
2009 and those protests.  Obviously, there’s already been sanctions. 
The President kind of telegraphed more sanctions potentially coming in
the days ahead.  What is the objective here for the United States?  Is
it to stop the protests crackdowns?  Is it to have Iran change the laws
that are being protested right now?  Or is it regime change?  What’s the
end goal here?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So what our purpose is — and you’ve heard from the
President, you’ve heard from me, you’ve heard from the National Security
Advisor at this podium and on various networks — is that we stand with
all the citizens of Iran who are inspiring the world with their bravery,
and we will continue to stand with them.  That’s how we see our role —
our role here.  
  
Women and men in Iran should have the right to freedom of expression and
assembly.  Women should be able to wear what they want, free from
violence or harassment.  Iran must end its use of violence against its
own citizens simply for exercising their fundamental freedoms, their
fundamental rights.   
  
We will continue to take action to hold Iran officials accountable and
support the rights of Iranians to protest freely.  We have — just last
week, we laid out the actions that we were taking: making sure that
Iranians had access to Internet as the government was stopping that —
that freedom to access their right to global Internet.  We took actions
there.  
  
And we are — we’ll have more this week.  You’ll hear from the United
States on what we’ll be imposing — further costs on those pr- — how
we’ll be imposing further costs on those perpetrators of violence
against peaceful protesters.  And we’ll continue to hold Iranian
officials accountable.  
  
Q    But there’s no goal to elevate the protests to create perhaps
instability in the regime or anything like that?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, we see our role — are making sure that we show
our support and stand with the citizens of Iran at this time.  And as
you have seen from my — our actions, that we are taking this very
seriously, and you’ll hear more this week.  
  
Q    I wanted to ask about the status of Brittney Griner’s release.  As
you know, the Russian court has set a court date for her.  But this
offer has been on the table for months now.  Is there any sort of
movement to get her released?  And is there any sort of deadline that
the administration can propose to get some kind of movement on this?   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, let me first say that we are aware of Russia’s
announcement that Brittney Griner will be forced to undergo another sham
judicial proceeding.  She should be released immediately.  As we have
said many times, Brittney Griner and Paul Whelan have been wrongfully
detained by Russian authorities.   
  
President Biden — who met with, as you all know, their families about
two weeks ago right here in the White House — is continuing to direct
his administration to engage with Russian government through every
available channel and make every effort to bring them home.  That is a
commitment that he has made.   
  
As I have said many times, it is — you know, it is a — again, a
commitment that he has made on their particular negotiations.   
  
But we want Russia — what we will say is that we want Russia to take the
offer that we have put on the table — a substantial offer, as you’ve
heard us say many times — seriously.  And — and if — if not — if they —
or they can make a serious counteroffer.  But they need to make a
serious counteroffer.  
  
But again, you know, the President has demonstrated that he is willing
to go to extraordinary lengths and make tough decisions to bring
Americans home, as he did just over the weekend to bring home all of the
Americans designated as “wrongfully detained” in Venezuela.  
  
So, this is a commitment that he has made to the American people, and
this is a commitment that he has made to their families.  
  
Q    You were saying, “And if not,” then what?  I mean, for her family
that’s been waiting for this for months, and Russia hasn’t made any
indication that they’re accepting this deal, I mean, what else can the
administration do to apply pressure?  At what point —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, we — I mean, I just laid out that we should take —
they should take this serious — this — this offer — this substantial
offer that we put on the table seriously or make a serious
counteroffer.  But we need to see a serious counteroffer on this.  
  
Look, the President has demonstrated many times during his
administration how seriously he takes this, how seriously he takes
Americans who are wrongfully detained.  
  
We have seen this just over the weekend.  We saw this with Trevor —
Trevor Reed.  We have — we have made sure that we have taken every step
possible to make sure that we bring these Americans home.  And so, that
commitment continues, that commitment stands.   
  
And so, we’re not going to negotiate in public, as you’ve heard us say
many times.  But we’re going to continue to have those discussions with
Russian authorities through the available channels that have been
provided to us.  
  
Q    And then, a quick question on abortion rights and access.  The
administration’s position has been that Congress needs to act, but that
is just completely unrealistic.  I know the President has supported
changing the filibuster rules to allow for a vote, but even — you know,
there isn’t support in the Democratic Caucus for changing those
rules.   
  
Has the President been talking to, kind of, holdouts on the filibuster
about this?  Has he been talking to Republican senators who have their
own proposal on abortion access?  At what point, you know, is the
administration saying that Congress needs to act but is the
administration being realistic about what the dynamics on Capitol Hill
are?  Even if Democrats were able to gain seats, it still wouldn’t be
enough.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Right.  And he’s also said that the American people
need to make sure that their voices are being heard.  That is also an
important piece of Congress acting.  You know, the American people have
a say here; they have a say on what happens next on this issue.   
  
And so, the President has been very clear on that.  I have to be very
careful in how I speak about the next couple of weeks because I can’t
speak about elections from here.  But he has — he’s made that very clear
in every speech that he’s made about this particular issue, about
codifying Roe.   
  
And it is, yes, “Congress needs to act,” but also the American public
have an important role to play here.  They can make their voices heard
on this issue by — you know, by making sure that they do what we have
been — we’ve been seeing across the country, especially on issues that
have been put — on Roe — on the ballot.   
  
And you’ve seen — you’ve seen just, you know, a record amount of — of
women come out and say, “No, we are not going to allow this to
happen.”  
  
I just want to be very careful of how far I can go here.  But, again,
this is something that the American people have a say in as well.  
  
Q    Hey, Karine.  One more from me on North Korea.  You’ve laid out a
number of the bilateral and trilateral conversations that are happening
at all levels of government with our allies in the region.  In the past,
we’ve seen that China is often a useful interlocutor in terms of dealing
with the North Koreans.  Is there any outreach at this stage to some of
our Chinese counterparts to try to maybe see if there’s a way they can
be helpful in the situation?  
  
And do you have an update on whether the President might be meeting in
person with President Xi at the G20?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  As you know, the President and — has been in — has had
multiple conversation with President Xi, and we’ve read out all of those
— all of those phone conversation.  
  
We don’t have a meeting to lay out or preview for all of you in the next
coming weeks or by the end of this year.  When we do, we certainly will
share that.  I don’t have any other conversations with the Chinese
government to share at this time as well.  
  
Q    And on the President’s call with President Zelenskyy, there was an
announcement along with that of additional security assistance to the
Ukrainians.  I’m wondering how Ukraine’s success on the battlefield of
late is factoring into decisions within the administration about
potentially accelerating this delivery of assistance to try to press the
advantage now and how that’s being calibrated with the threats we’re
hearing from the Russian side about potential nuclear retaliation in
this situation.  Is that sort of a push and pull that’s factoring into
our decision-making (inaudible)?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, you know, we always say “nothing without
Ukraine.”  Nothing — “no action on Ukraine without Ukraine.”  Right? 
That is something — when it comes to any type of diplomacy or
conversation that’s being had, that certainly they have to be in the
room for that — for that piece.  
  
And, look, when it comes to a nuclear — a potential nuclear threat, we
have been very — very clear about that.  We take any nuclear — nuclear
weapons or nuclear saber-rattling very seriously here.  
  
But I do want to say — I do want to say that we have not seen any reason
to adjust our own strategic nuclear posture, nor do we have indication
that Russia is preparing to imminently use nuclear weapons.   
  
What you’re seeing — the $600 million that we announced today of nuclear
assistan- — pardon me, of security assistance, it’s just a continued
commitment that we have showed to Ukraine.  Because, as you all know, he
is fight- — they are fighting — the brave people of Ukraine are fighting
for their freedom; they’re fighting for their sovereignty.  And so, this
is something that we believe — not just the U.S. — our allies and
partners around the world see this as an important — an important
partnership that we have to make sure that Ukraine is able to do that.  
  
And so, as we have seen their successes on the battlefield, as we have
seen them take back even territory that was supposedly annexed just a
couple of days ago, they are — you know, they are — we’re seeing them
have those gains in taking back their own territory.   
  
And so, we’re going to continue to make sure that we are there for the
Ukrainians.  That’s why you heard — we did the readout of the
President’s call with Zelenskyy saying that we are going to continue to
be there and be in partnership with them, and also give them a heads-up
of what we’re going to provide and making sure that they continue those
successes on the battlefield.  
  
Look, this is important.  This is very serious.  When we’re talking
about a country’s democracy, when you’re talking about a country’s
freedom, it is important for us to be there and stand with the Ukrainian
people, and that’s what you’re going to continue to see.  
  
Q    And one last question from me.  You mentioned the President will be
meeting with Governor DeSantis tomorrow as part of his trip to Florida. 
They’ve met in person in the past when he was visiting Surfside as
well.  Both of those conversations were above politics, focused on the
tragedies at hand.  But I’m wondering if the President will look for an
opportunity behind the scenes, privately tomorrow, to speak with
Governor DeSantis about some of his concerns about his actions as it
relates to flying migrants to other jurisdictions.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, you know, obviously the President laid out his
concerns and outrage by the stunt — the political stunt — and by the
fact that people were misled.  You’ve — you’ve heard me talk about
this.  You’ve heard the President talk about this and how they were
misled and flown across the country with all kinds of promises that were
not true.  
  
There will be plenty of times — plenty of time to discuss differences
between the President and the governor, and — but now is not the time. 
As you’ve heard from the President, he has said, you know, when it comes
to delivering and making sure that the people of Florida have what they
need, especially after Hurricane Ian, we are one — we are working as
one.   
  
And so that is what the President is going to be doing when he’s there
in Florida.  He’s going to be listening to the people who live there,
who have lost so much.  He’s going to be talking to the
<s>respondents</s> \[responders\] on the ground who have been — done
tremendous work.  As you know, the FEMA Administrator will be traveling
with him as well.   
  
And — and they’re going to — you know, Governor DeSantis and President
Biden, as they have done several times leading up to — leading up to
this day, as they’ve been — as Florida has been dealing with this
hurricane, they’re going to talk about what — what — how — what else
needs — what else are the needs in Florida to get to a place of
recovery, to get to a place of rebuilding.  
  
But again, this is going to be, as you’ve said, above politics.  You
have seen them do this before when Surfside — you — I remember you
traveled with us when we went to Surfside, when the President and
Governor DeSantis listened to the people of Florida who dealt — in that
community — who dealt with so much lost, loved ones.  And so that’s what
you’re going to see again tomorrow.  And also, you saw that yesterday in
Puerto Rico.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  You’ve said the President was responsible for gas
prices coming down.  Is the President responsible for gas prices going
up?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, it’s a lot more nuanced than that.  Right, Peter? 
You know this.  There have been global challenges that we have all have
dealt with.  When I say “all,” meaning other countries as well have
dealt with since the pandemic.  There’s been pandemic and there’s been
Putin’s war.  And Putin’s war has increased gas prices at the pump.  We
have seen that over the la- — past several months.   
  
And what the President was able to do — he took some historic steps,
when you think about the Strategic Petroleum Reserve, and making sure
that he — we were able to do everything that we can to bring that cost
down for American families, give them a little bit more of a breathing
room.  And we saw that.  We saw that every day this summer over — saving
American families over a dollar per gallon.   
  
And so that is what the President is going to continue to stay focused
on — are American consumers; how do we continue to keep — to keep prices
down.  
  
That’s why we did the Inflation Reduction Act.  That’s why we talk about
the CHIPS Act.  All of these things are going to help Americans here in
this country.   
  
Q    And there are consumers now in California paying $6.41 a gallon for
gas; Nevada, $5.51; Oregon, $5.46.  Who can afford that?   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  And we understand that.  That’s why the President
worked so hard the past several months to make sure that he did
everything we can to bring gas prices down.  We have seen fastest — I
know you’re pulling out a couple of areas across the country, and I get
that.  And we understand that there’s more work to do.  We have never
said we were done here.  We have always been very clear that there is
more work to do.   
  
But we have seen — the reality is we have seen the fastest decline in
gasoline prices in over a decade.  That’s because of what this President
has done.  And again, prices going down by more than a dollar per
gallon.  And these are real savings.  You’re talking about $100 per
month in savings for an average family with two cars.  
  
Q    When the President went to Saudi Arabia, he said, “I’m doing all I
can to increase the supply for the United States of America, which I
expect to happen.”  What happened?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So let’s — I want to be very clear.  And we have said
that, you know, his trip to — his trip to the Middle East was not about
oil.  It was about America’s position in the Middle East and
consultation with 12 leaders from across the region on a range of
issues, similar to his summits in Asia or the Americas and later this
year with African leaders.   
  
The President’s trip was crucial — it was critical to U.S. national
security — a more peaceful, integrated region — and for global
security.  And there were plenty of examples that we laid out to all of
you as why this trip was so important.   
  
But aside from that, the President took action, as I just mentioned.  He
took action these past several months.  And every day in this — this
summer, you saw prices tick down at the pump.  And that’s — but we
didn’t just stop there.  We did –you saw legislative actions, historic
actions that the President took to make sure that we’re continuing to
create jobs in America, we’re continuing to lower prices.   
  
So there are multiple actions that this President has taken.  
  
Q    Thank you.  Can I follow up on Iran?  Does the decision by the CIA
Director, Mr. Bill Burns, to speak out in support of the demonstrators
in Iran was coordinated by the White House?  Because as you know,
Karine, CIA director do not speak often.  So is this a direct message to
the Iranian regime that the U.S. will help the demonstrators?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — can you say that first part about the CIA?  I
didn’t hear that part.  
  
Q    So he — Bill Burns gave an interview yesterday —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  
  
Q    — and he talked in support of the Iranian demonstrators.  But was
this coordinated by the White House?  Because for him to speak, that has
weight.  So, is this a direct message?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  But we — but we have been very clear.  The President’s
voice also has weight, right?  The President has spoken about his
concerns that he — about the intensity of the violent crackdown on
peaceful protesters in Iran — again, who are demanding, as you know,
their equal rights and basic human dignity.   
  
He’s spoken — he spoke out about that during the U.N. — the U.N. —
during UNGA Assembly that we saw — the General Assembly that we saw just
two weeks ago.  He was very clear.  You’ve see- — you’ve heard
statements from him.  You’ve heard statements from his National Security
Advisor.  You’ve heard statements from me.  
  
So as a — as an administration, as a — holistically, we’ve been very,
very clear.  And the President has taken actions.  We’re making it
easier for Iranians to access the Internet, including through
facilitating greater access to secure outside platforms and services. 
And we’re holding Iranian officials accountable.   
  
And so you’ve seen us take actions through the U.S. Treasury and do our
part in making sure that we are supporting the Iranian people.   
  
Q    But my point to you that I’m trying to articulate is: Because he’s
the head of the CIA —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, I hear your question.  Sure.   
  
Q    But because of that —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No —  
  
Q    — do you think that the Iranian regime might see that as an
interference by the American intelligence, which is — often they said
this accusation against the administrations?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, I — I hear your question, but what I’m saying
is: We are — we, as an administration, the President directly is
speaking out on what we are seeing on the ground.  We have concerns.  We
believe that the Iranian people — women, in particular — have the right
to their freedoms, and we’re going to speak out about that.  And I think
that’s important.  
  
You all are reporting this.  You all are seeing yourselves what is
happening on the ground.  And — and so we’re going to continue — we’re
going to continue to impose further costs as — on the perpetrators of
these violence.  And so we’re going to — we’re going to continue to
speak out.  And I think that’s the right thing to do.  We think that’s
the right thing to do.  
  
Q    I have two health-related questions.  First, on the abortion issue
and the Title IX guidance that the Education Department released today,
are there current examples of the types of violations that this guidance
is trying to stop?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have any particular examples for you at this
time.  I would refer you to the agency to ask for specific — specific
examples that they can share with you.   
  
Q    Okay.  And then, last week, the Kaiser Family Foundation released a
poll showing that nearly half of adults had heard little to no- — little
to nothing about the COVID booster despite, you know, the efforts by the
administration and others to launch for this education campaign this
fall to get people to get boosters.  Do you have a reaction to this? 
Are you concerned about it?  Are you going to be doing anything else in
light of this to try to step up those education outreach efforts?   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So — no, it’s an important question to ask.  I know
Dr. Jha actually spoke to this yesterday, and I want to give a little
bit of context.  I know people have had questions on the data,
specifically on how many people are actually getting this new
vaccine.   
  
So just to give you a little bit about — on what we have: We estimated
about 10 million Americans got their updated COVID-19 vaccines in the
month of September.  As Dr. Jha said yesterday, we are off to a strong
start with about 10 million Americans with their updated vaccine.  It
means that in the first three weeks of our fall vaccination program,
hundreds of thousands of Americans got their updated COVID-19 vaccine
each day.   
  
And so even with the limited funding, as we have spoken to many times,
we’re absolutely doing more to make sure we’re redoubling our efforts on
protecting those at high risk, especially elder — elderly Americans,
including through a new paid media campaign and targeted engagement
efforts.   
  
And within the group, there’s been good progress.  Almost half of
updated vaccines administered so far have gone to those age 65 and
older.  And in October, we’re going to be building on that as well.  
  
Next week, we are hoping to have Dr. Jha and also Dr. Fauci here in the
briefing room to take — to take your questions, clearly, on this new va-
— on this new vaccination program and how we’re making sure that
Americans are aware and they know the importance of getting this new
vaccine.  
  
So you’re going to hear directly from the doctors next week and — just
laying out how critical and how important it is to make sure that
they’re getting that vaccine — that — vaccinated.  
  
Okay.  Welcome to the briefing room.  
  
Q    Thank you so much, Karine.  It’s great to be here.  (Laughter.)  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Are you sure?  (Laughter.)   
  
Q    I’ll try to — try to make this as painless as possible.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Take — take your time.  We have a lot of time.  Take
your time.  No pressure.  No pressure.  
  
Q    The administration and the White House is marking the 100 days
since the Dobbs Act here.  As you’re doing that, over at the Supreme
Court, there are a number of other rights that are going to be on the
table this term.  I’m thinking about voting rights.  I’m thinking about
potential affirmative action, the Clean Water Act.   
  
And, you know, this administration received some criticism for its — for
how proactive or how reactionary it was to the Dobbs Act.  And I’m
wondering — decision.  And I’m wondering if some of those other rights,
if the White House is taking proactive action to potentially get
prepared for seeing the Voting Rights Act scaled back or seeing the end
of affirmative action in universities.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I just want to get back to your — what you were
saying about — alluding to on abortion and the criticism that we’ve
received there on the Dobbs decision.  
  
I want to be very clear, because I think it’s important to note and I’ve
noted it a couple of times — is, you know, when the leak of the document
happened, we did take action.  We did take action in those weeks leading
up to the actual decision, and that was meeting with groups, that was
meeting internally, trying to figure out the best way that we were going
to take — that we were going to respond if indeed the leaked document at
the time, during that moment, was true.  
  
And so I want to be very clear and continue to correct the record here,
is that the President has always taken this very seriously when it comes
to Roe.  He’s always taken women’s rights and women’s ability to make a
decision on their own healthcare.  And also, he was very clear that —
what this could lead to, right?  This could lead to not just Roe — the
Dobbs decision — but it could also lead to marriage equality,
contraception.  He was ve- — he was one of the first voices that sounded
the alarm on what this could potentially — down the path, the dangerous
path that the Dobbs decision could take us to.  
  
And we’re seeing that.  We’re seeing efforts of that currently from, you
know, Republican officials and Republican voices nationally.  And
they’ve been very, very clear.  
  
So, as it relates to this question of the courts, yes, you know, the
protections that we have held so dear and near are once again on the
line in this term.  And we are very clear about that and we understand
what is potentially at stake here.  
  
We will continue to do everything within our power to defend fundamental
rights from special interests that are bent on destroying them.  That
doesn’t stop us.  We’re going to continue to speak out on that.   
  
And — and this is — when it comes to people’s fundamental rights,
fundamental freedoms, this is something that the President and the Vice
President is going to fight for.  
  
Q    And then just to follow up, earlier you talked about how the
President knows that the American people will have their say in these
matters in a matter of about five weeks.  I know you can’t talk about
politics from there, but how much can we expect the President to take
that message on the road to the various places in the country where
there are key elections and they will have a voice and that voice will
impact the President’s term in terms of his legislative agenda?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, look, I can’t get into the next five weeks and
what — where he’s going to be and any of the politics.  
  
What I can say very clearly is that, you know, back in August, we put
out a memo laying out what this administration was going to be doing in
order to speak to how we’re delivering for the American people.  We
talked about the Inflation Reduction Act and what that’s going to mean
for millions of Americans across the country when it comes to
healthcare, when it comes to Medicare, when it comes to energy costs,
when it comes to putting one of the most important investment in
fighting climate change.  We’re going to talk about that.  
  
We’re going to talk about the bipartisan infrastructure legislation. 
We’re going to talk about the CHIPS Act.  I just gave an announcement on
what Micron is doing, the investment that they are bringing into this
country and making sure that we’re having a — strengthening our supply
chain; chipmaking, which is going to be so important in lowering
costs.  
  
And so, it’s not just the President.  It’s going to be the Cabinet
Secretaries.  It’s going to be — it’s going to be the Vice President. 
And it’s going to be congressional members within their districts or
senators in their states.  
  
And so, we laid out that plan on what you are going to see from us.  Any
specifics on any, you know, 2022-specific strategy, I cannot speak from
— to that from here.  
  
Go ahead, Karen.  
  
Q    Thank you.  The governor of Puerto Rico yesterday made a very
specific ask to extend the 100 percent disaster funding for 180 days. 
Is the President considering that?  Has he made a decision?  Where does
that stand, that request?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So that — that request, I would have to check with the
team.  Don’t have anything specifically on the request that the governor
made.  I did remember — I remember hearing that.  
  
But, you know, one of the things that we want to make sure that came out
— I mean, what you all saw from that — from the President and the First
Lady’s visit is that you saw a President that was committed to making
sure that the — that the people in Puerto Rico are not forgotten, that
our brothers and sisters in Puerto Rico got the need and the help — the
need — the help that they needed to rebuild and to — and to make sure
that they were not forgotten.  And so that’s the takeaway that I would —
that I would provide to you.  
  
The President made a commitment.  He made a promise that we will get
them back on their feet and we will be there for the long term.  And
that’s why he made the announcement, if you all remember, on the Puerto
Rico grid modernization team, which is going to — which is going to be
coming out of the Department of Energy, which is going to support Puerto
Rico in rebuilding its electricity grid so that it is more resilient and
secure.  
  
The Secretary will closely — will work closely with the governor to help
address challenges and rebuild the necessary infrastructure, allowing
the island to better withstand increasingly stronger storms and natural
disaster.  The team will work with other agencies — including FEMA, HUD,
and Commerce — to coordinate resources from across the federal
government and ensure funding is used in an expeditious and strategic
manner to best serve the grid and the people of Puerto Rico.  And that
is going to be our commitment to — to the people of the island.  
  
Q    Just one quick thing.  The President, yesterday, in Puerto Rico, in
addition to getting the briefing, did give public remarks with the
governor and others near him.  Is he going to be giving, like, a public
speech in Florida as well?  And will Governor DeSantis be with him for
that or just for the briefing?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So we know that the governor has a busy schedule as he
is dealing with the aftermath of a catastrophic storm — as we all saw
for ourselves and many of you have been reporting on it — so I can’t
speak specifically to where he’s going to be at every step of the day. 
We will have more to share on what the President and the First Lady are
going to be doing tomorrow.  
  
Okay.  Sebastian.  
  
Q    Thank you.  Do you have anything on the — the Russians say that
they detained — or actually imprisoned somebody called Robert Gilman,
who apparently attacked a police officer over there.  He’s been
sentenced to four-plus years in prison in Russia.  Is this on your
radar?  Is this seen as another problematic case or just a regular —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I would have to check with the team.  I don’t have
anything at this time to share on that particular individual.  
  
Q    Okay.  And a very quick one.  Did the President tell Al Sharpton
he’s running?  (Inaudible) clearly.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  You love asking me — Sebastian, you love asking me
about 2024.   
  
Q    Well, no, I asked you, “Did he tell.”  Did he say it?  Did he say,
“Hey, Al, I’m running”?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Here’s what I will say —  
  
Q    I just want a clear answer.  Only Al Sharpton has got it —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I know you want a clear answer.  I know.  But he’s —
(laughter) —

Q    — apparently.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  If Al Sharpton says it, it’s — you know, look, I — oh,
it’s so funny.  You always ask me about 2024.   
  
So, here’s what I can say — and the President has said this himself: He
intends to run in 2024.  As you know, I cannot weigh in on elections; I
cannot speak to elections from here.  We do — we do truly follow and try
to follow the Hatch Act here.  But I will just reiterate what the
President has said many times, what I have said many times — is that the
President intends to run.  
  
Q    Karine, thank you.  The Strategic Petroleum Reserve  — the run out
— run off or release of 1 million barrels a day ends at the end of this
month.  Is there any conversations about releasing more oil from the
Strategic Petroleum?  And how is the President going to keep the supply
up?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, we’re not considering new releases — releases from
the Strategic Petroleum Reserve beyond the 180 million, which is what
you’re talk — speaking about — the 1 million that the President
announced months ago.  We don’t have anything more to share or we’re not
going to be considering new releases at this time.  
  
Q    Does the President except — expect gas prices to rise then?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, we — we have been very, very clear that we’re
going to continue to do everything that we can to give Americans a
little bit of breathing room.  The decline that you’ve seen the last
several months is historic in many ways, because it is the fastest
decline in gas prices that we have seen in over a decade.  
  
The President is going to continue to do that work, but it’s not just,
you know, gas prices.  We’ve talked about the Inflation Reduction Act
and how he’s working to make sure we lower costs for Americans, whether
healthcare or energy.  We talk — I just laid out the CHIPS Act and how
important that’s going to be in lowering costs and also creating jobs
right here in America.   
  
And so, we’re going to continue to do that work, but, right now, I don’t
have — we’re not considering to be doing anything more with the
Strategic Petroleum Reserve.  
  
Q    Thank you, Karine.  Is the administration worried that Elon Musk is
spreading Russian propaganda?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Can you be more specific?  
  
Q    Well, this weekend, he put out this, quote, “peace plan” that
includes giving Russia Crimea and, like, redoing some of these elections
but with the U.N. watching.  So, I’m wondering if there’s a concern
there.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, we’ve been very clear about this.  And I just said
this earlier in the briefing: Anything about Ukraine — we are not going
to talk about Ukraine without Ukraine.  It is their decision to make
when it comes to any diplomacy or negotiations in that regard.  And so,
I leave that to the Ukrainian people.  
  
But look, you know, we’re going to make sure that we’re going to be
there for the Ukrainians as they fight for their own — for their
sovereignty.  And their — that decision about their sovereignty, about
their freedom, about their democracy will be made with them.  
  
Q    And in — a sort of slightly different question — but are there
concerns about Elon Musk acquiring Twitter?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Any concerns about — I have not —  
  
Q    Elon Musk acquiring Twitter.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I have not — has there been something new on that?  
  
Q    Yes, just today.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE: So, I’m — we have been very clear on not commenting,
and — on any specifics, potential transaction from here, so I’ll leave
it on — I’ll leave it to them.  
  
Go ahead, Karen.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  The administration has said Americans will be able
to apply for student loan forgiveness beginning early this month.  Is
the process being held up at all because of the lawsuits that have been
brought?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have anything more on that.  I think you’ll
hear more from us, from the Department of Education on that piece of
that implementation process.  I think I’ve laid it out a couple of times
here.  They’ve made — they sent out some emails — emails last week.

But as it relates to the legal pieces, the lawsuits that you’re seeing
across the country, it’s a shame.  It’s a shame that you have
Republicans out there — Republican groups, Republican states — that are
trying to stop Americans from getting a little bit of a breathing room,
a little bit of a break. 

We’re talking about 40 million Americans that could benefit from getting
student loan relief.  And it is — it is shameful that they are siding
with the special interests.  It’s shameful that they’re not siding with
the American people on this.

And let’s not forget: 90 percent of borrowers who are going to be
receiving that relief will be making under $75,000.

This is a commitment that the President has made.  He made it during his
campaign.  And this is one of the — one of the ways that the President
is going to continue to work for the American people, trying to find
ways to give them a little bit of a break.

And let’s not forget: The pause is going to — is going to lift in
December, so people are going to be paying back their loans.  And while
we’re going through that process, he wanted to make sure that folks who
are — who — you know, who were really affected by — especially by the
pandemic, also got — that we didn’t forget them and give them a little
bit of a break as well.  
Go ahead.

Q    Thank you.  A couple quick ones.  Last week, I asked about Navy
Lieutenant Ridge Alkonis.  I didn’t know if you had an update on his
case.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, I do not have an update for you on that.  I
apologize.  You did ask me about that.

Q    And then I wanted to ask — the President recently praised a group
of Coast Guard rescue swimmers.  One of them reportedly faces
termination because he isn’t vaccinated.  I’m curious, given the threats
that we’re facing abroad, would the President ever reconsider that
vaccination requirement or consider issuing more exemptions?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, as you — as — as you can imagine, the President
has the most — the deepest respect for the U.S. Coast Guard.  That is
something that you would hear from him directly.  And the country — the
President and the country are grateful for all of the U.S. Coast Guard
heroes that have led the effort to save lives in Florida.  We have seen
that with our very own eyes these past couple of days.

I would refer you specifically to the U.S. Coast Guard on this — on this
issue, on this individual questions.  It’s not something that I would
comment from here.

But, you know, there, of course, have been multiple vaccination
requirements, as you know, in place for quite some time.  And — but,
again, I’m not going to comment here — from here on an individual case.

Q    Okay.  Then, a third one.  Last week, the President brought up the
Italian election, unprompted, in some remarks.  And he seemed to say
that the election of the Italian prime minister — or, I should say, the
incoming Italian prime minister was part of this larger, greater global
struggle between democracies and autocracies.

Was the President suggesting that the election of that prime minister
was somehow part of that larger threat to democracy?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, as we have said, and I have said this
before, we respect the democratic choice of the Italian people.  We have
said that, and it’s something that we will continue to say.   
  
And we stand — the United States stands ready and eager to work with the
new government that emerges from the electoral process and to continue
to work together as allies to advance our many shared goals and interest
— mutual interests, as you know.   
  
But I don’t have anything further on — on his comments.  
You know, I will say, you know, he — you know, the President views —
just in general, more broadly — the rise of the far right as — as well
known, and that is — that is something he’s been very clear about.  But
I wou- — I wouldn’t have anything to add on what he said.  
  
Q    Thank you, Karine.

Q    Thanks, Karine.

Q    Thanks.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I was calling —

Q    Thank you.  One more on Ukraine.  Today, India’s Prime Minister
Modi called — had a call with Ukrainian President Zelenskyy, during
which he said about this “no military solution” to this problem.  And
they talked about peace and diplomacy.

I just wanted you to check with you: Is there any coordination between
India and the U.S. on the Ukraine and Russian crisis?  Has President
spoken to Prime Minister Modi on this?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I don’t have any, like — anything to read out on
any recent conversation with Prime Minister Modi.  But I — you know, he
— his public comments directly to Putin are very clear: Now is not the
time for war.  And it’s not the time — he was even more specific than
that.  He said “his” war, Putin’s war, he was — he was — he was alluding
to.

Look, Putin is facing further isolation from international communities. 
As countries make clear, Putin’s decision doesn’t have a lot of sympathy
ears.  He doesn’t have a lot of sympathetic ears here on his decision to
have this war and his decision to — to — to start this brutal war
against Ukraine, a brutal — a war against their democracy.  And — and
so, not many people have a sympathetic ear to President Putin.

We are as- — we are asking that countries around the world — and we’ve
been very clear about that — continue to speak out publicly and continue
to engage diplomatically on this as well.  And so I think that’s what
you’re seeing from the prime minister.

Q    One more on — last year, President quietly celebrated Diwali at the
White House — Diwali, known as the Festival of Lights for the Hindus,
Jains, and Sikhs.

You know President has appointed large number of Indian Americans in the
administration — 113-plus and counting.  A lot of them vote for him,
support him.

Does the President has any plans to celebrate Diwali with the Indian
Americans community leaders at the White House this year?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yes, he has plans to celebrate Diwali, just like he
did last year.  We don’t have a date to share with you at this time. 
But it is an event that he thinks it’s very important, as he sees a
partnership with Indian — with India, as well as Indian Americans here
in this country.

Go ahead.

Q    Me?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  And then we’ll —

Q    Thank you.  On abortion, it’s been 100 days since Dobbs; it’s been
more since the draft leak — leaked.  Isn’t it fair to say that if the
administration saw any significant benefit in an emergency declaration,
that it would have happened already?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, the administration has taken bold actions for
the past several months since the Dobbs decision back in June.  And they
have made a priority to make sure that we protect women’s health the
best way that we can from the federal government.  They’ve made that
commitment.

You’ve heard from Jen Klein many times here at the podium.  She’s been
at the podium twice — the <s>General</s> \[Gender\] Policy Council
director — on the — on the actions that we have taken and how we’re
going to continue to make sure that we keep that front of mind, making
sure that we do not — we do not forget the women who are putting — you
know, whose lives are now at risk because of the Dobbs decision.

So, look, at the same time, the President has been clear that the only
way to — to really protect women’s health is to codify Roe.  And so,
that is something that you’re going to hear from this President today,
you’re going to hear from the Vice President as well.

And the Vice President has led on this effort.  She has met with, you
know, I would probably argue, hundreds of local officials and has spoken
to this across the country and made the voice of the administration very
clear on this.

So, look, you know, we — we’ve been very clear: It’s limited on what we
can do at the federal level.  The President has been clear on this.

But we — the way that we get to a solution here, that we make sure that
these difficult decisions that women have to make — the potential of
contraception being at the — on the chopping block and privacy and —
being at risk, and marriage equality being also at risk, as we are
seeing from Republican officials and what they’re saying and what
they’re alluding to that they will do next.  We have SCOTUS that’s back,
as somebody was asking me — the actions that they can particularly take
— potentially take.  We believe in protecting the fundamental rights and
freedoms of Americans.  And we’re going to do everything that we can to
make that happen.

Q    And real quick on gas prices.  You alluded to some of the steps
that were taken to drive gas prices down.  Now that they’re going back
up, is the White House confident that it has the policy tools remaining
to drive those prices back down?  Or are all the good options
essentially exhausted at this point?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, look, again, we’re going to do everything that we
can here in the administration to lower costs for Americans.  That is
going to continue to be a number one priority, especially as we look at
the President’s economic plan.

We’re continuing to release oil from Strategic Petroleum Reserve through
November.  That has not stopped; that continues.

As the President, as we know, announced that pa- — this past — past
spring, we’re continuing to engage directly with industry to ensure that
the private sector is also doing everything it can to build resilience
ahead of the coming season.  We know winter — winter is here.

And on Friday, the President team met with energy companies and
emphasized that energy companies with record high profits, record high
exports, and record low invent- — inventories must step up and bring
down the prices at the pump.

He’s been very clear.  You heard him say that last week.  The President
and his senior team are directly engaged on these issues.  And again, it
will be — it will continue to be — lowering prices for Americans — a ty-
— a top economic priority for this administration.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  Thanks, everybody.

2:44 P.M. EDT
