---
date: '2022-10-03'
published_time: 2022-10-03 15:01:45-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2022/10/03/press-gaggle-by-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-and-fema-administrator-deanne-criswell-en-route-ponce-puerto-rico/
tags: press-briefings
title: "Press Gaggle by Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre and FEMA Administrator\
  \ Deanne Criswell En Route Ponce, Puerto\_Rico"
---
 
Aboard Air Force One  
En Route Ponce, Puerto Rico

12:31 P.M. EDT  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  Today, the President and the First Lady
are visiting storm-ravaged Ponce, Puerto Rico, to reaffirm their
commitment to the people of Puerto Rico as they recover and rebuild from
Hurricane Fiona.   
  
Even before Hurricane Fiona made landfall on the island, President Biden
quickly mobilized federal resources to help local officials prepare for
the storm.  And every day and night since, we’ve been working in
lockstep with community leaders and local officials to save lives,
restore power, distribute food and water, clean up, and rebuild.   
  
The President and First Lady will assess some of those recovery efforts,
meet with families and community leaders devastated by the storm, and
thank federal and local officials for their tireless work to support the
people of Puerto Rico.   
  
The President will also participate in an operational briefing with FEMA
Administrator Deanne Criswell, Governor — Governor Pedro Pierluisi, and
additional federal and local officials to receive an update on ongoing
damage assessments and recovery efforts.   
  
Throughout the day, the President will also be joined by Congresswoman
Nydia Velazquez; Congress- — Congresswoman Jenniffer González-Colon —
Colón; Mayor Luis Pabón; and other federal and local officials.   
  
Following the briefing, President Biden will deliver remarks to the
people of Puerto Rico, assuring them that his administration will be
there for them each step of the way for as long as it takes.  
  
He will announce more than $60 million in additional funding through the
Bipartisan Infrastructure Law to shore up levees, fortify flood walls,
and create a new flood warning system in Puerto Rico.  He will also
announce a new effort to make Puerto Rico’s energy grid more secure and
resilient.   
  
The President and First Lady will then take — then visit a local school
and community center to hear directly from community leaders, teachers,
and families impacted by Hurricane Fiona and to help package food and
other essential items as part of a community service project.   
  
From day one, President Biden has made it a priority to support Puerto
Rico’s long-term recovery and increase its ability to withstand future
storms.  We removed burdensome restrictions put in place by the last
administration restricting Puerto Rico’s ability to access nearly $5
billion in funds, including a critical recovery and reconstruction
needs.   
  
And through the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, the President secured
more than $2 billion to help Puerto Rico build back their infrastructure
to be stronger and more resilient after — ahead of future storms.   
  
With today’s visited — visit, President Biden is making clear that
supporting the people of Puerto Rico remains his priority.   
  
Now I’ll turn it over to FEMA Administrator Deanne Criswell, who was
already on the ground in Puerto Rico earlier and can share more on the
ongoing recovery efforts.  
  
With that, I’m going to give you this spot.   
  
ADMINISTRATOR CRISWELL:  Yes, I was on the ground in Puerto Rico shortly
after Hurricane Fiona made landfall.  I was also on the ground a few
weeks before that, checking on the recovery efforts from Hurricane
Maria.   
  
We have one very integrated team — between the commonwealth, our FEMA
family, as well as our federal partners — working together to make sure
that we are doing everything we can to continue the recovery process
from Maria while we are still responding to and stabilizing the impacts
that we’re seeing from Hurricane Fiona.   
  
We have over 900 personnel on the ground dedicated right now
specifically to the ongoing efforts for Fionna, in addition to our staff
that are continuing to support the recovery efforts from Maria.  
  
The report that I got this morning was — I believe it was 92 or 93
percent of the power has been restored on the island; 95 percent of the
water has been restored on the island.  
  
But we are working with them to drive to 100 percent; we know that’s
where we need to be.  And we’re working to get that done as quickly as
possible.   
  
So, I’m happy to take any questions.  
  
Q    Do you have an estimate on when everybody on the island will have
power and water again?  
  
ADMINISTRATOR CRISWELL:  I do not have an estimate.  What I know is that
we are working into some of the hardest-hit areas, and it’s about
getting to the homes that are in some of the mountainous regions where
they have accessibility issues because so many roads were washed out,
and it’s getting to those house-by-house pieces now to make sure each
house can receive power so we can then get to that 100 percent goal.   
  
Q    You mentioned being on the ground earlier for Hurricane Maria.  Do
you have an assessment of how long it will take to really ensure that
Puerto Rico is resilient to not only bounce back but sort of be in a
pre-Hurricane Maria situation?  Or — you know, I know you guys have
talked about “building back better,” but how long of a timeline is
this?  
  
ADMINISTRATOR CRISWELL:  Yeah, our goal is that we don’t get to a
pre-Maria situation; that we’re actually making them stronger, we’re
making them more resilient.  
  
Some of these projects are very complex, right?  And we want to — we
want to make sure that as we’re going through the rebuilding process,
we’re taking the time to understand what it’s going to take to make them
more resilient.   
  
Each project is going to take a different amount of time, and so it
depends on the complexity of what we’re talking about.  But we’re making
good progress in those efforts for Maria.  And we’re going to continue
to make progress as we now incorporate the recovery from Fiona.  
  
Q    Can I just ask you one quick follow-up?  On the resiliency of the
grid, though — in particular, the electrical grid — can we talk about
how long that’ll take?  And what does that mean?  You talked about
making — creating the —  
  
ADMINISTRATOR CRISWELL:  Yeah, the resiliency of the electrical grid is
a priority for this administration.  We have funding available through
our public assistance program.  And you’re going to hear the President
announce later today some really aggressive initiatives to continue to
help Puerto Rico restore their infrastructure but rebuild it in a way
that makes them more resilient to future impacts from storms like
Fiona.  
  
Q    Apropos funding, how much money are we talking?  Does — will the
—  
  
ADMINISTRATOR CRISWELL:  Which funding?   
  
Q    Broadly, how much money will be required for Puerto Rico to recover
from this storm?   
  
ADMINISTRATOR CRISWELL:  I don’t have the total estimates for what’s
going to be required from Fiona.  We’re still doing the full damage
assessment process.  What I can tell you that I saw when I was on the
ground: While we’re restoring water, and 95 percent of the water is
restored, some of that is temporary fixes, because we saw roads that
were washed out and water lines — distribution lines that have been
completely damaged.   
  
So they’re going to have to figure out the extent of that damage for the
permanent repairs, but we’re doing temporary repairs to make sure we can
get water to everybody in these communities while they’re going through
that.  We still have to understand the extent of some of those really
complex infrastructure impacts.   
  
Again, they were in very mountainous communities, hard to access.  It’s
going to be in the billions, though, and time to — to fix that.   
  
Q    That’s what I was — I just wanted to follow up on that, because I —
my understanding is, for Florida and South Carolina, we’re talking about
tens of billions.  So the $60 million that is being announced today just
doesn’t seem like a drop in the bucket for what I suspect the island is
going to need.  Would you agree with that assessment?  
  
ADMINISTRATOR CRISWELL:  Well, there’s already other funding that’s been
available to the island.  FEMA alone has authorized $9.5 billion to the
commonwealth to restore their power grid from the impacts from Maria. 
It’s going to take multiple different funding streams from the federal
family to make sure that we’re getting them to a place that they can be
more resilient.   
  
Q    Can you give us an update on the financial state of the National
Flood Insurance Program, given that we’re dealing with two hurricanes
here simultaneously, and whether you’ll need to ask Congress or whoever
to increase its debt limit, given how much damage is being incurred?   
  
ADMINISTRATOR CRISWELL:  Yeah, the financial solvency of the NFIP
program is solid.  We’re able to meet the claims for the Write Your Own
agents.  We don’t have a need to go ask for additional funding for that
program.  
  
Q    And I’m also wondering — I mean, some of my colleagues talked to
people in Puerto Rico on the ground who are saying, you know, “It has
taken so long to rebuild after the 2017 storm, and sometimes we so often
get left behind.”  I mean, what is your message to the people of Puerto
Rico?  What are some lessons that perhaps the federal government learned
after Maria to rebuild Puerto Rico faster?  
  
ADMINISTRATOR CRISWELL:  Yeah, I think there’s a couple of things,
right?  So, after Maria, one of the things that we did is we embedded
some of our staff on the island to continue to work on the preparedness
measures for the commonwealth, as well as the municipalities, so we
could make sure that we could respond more effectively if another event
would happen.   
  
Especially since they’re still in the rebuilding stage and the
restoration stage from Maria, we know that it creates additional
complexities in the response.  That proved to be just an incredibly
valuable effort because the response was well integrated, was much
better than what we saw during Maria.  They worked together to make sure
we got in there to better understand where the immediate needs were and
start restoring power much more quickly than I think we did during
Hurricane Maria.   
  
What I would say is that our focus and our goal is, again, to continue
to understand what needs to happen to help Puerto Ricans rebuild in a
way that makes them more resilient.  The efforts that we have put in
place to understand what that’s going to take has allowed us to go in
and restore quickly.  And that’s what we’re going to be able to do in
future storms while they’re continuing the restoration and the
rebuilding process.   
  
Q    And can I ask on — oh, sorry, go ahead.  
  
Q    Do you have an update on the vessel that was — received the Jones
Act waiver?  Has the fuel — the diesel fuel that was on that vessel, the
BP vessel, been able to get to the island yet?  Do you have any update
on that?   
  
ADMINISTRATOR CRISWELL:  I do not have an update on that.  I know that
the Jones Act waiver was approved, making that available.  If there is a
need for fuel, I’m sure that we have it in there.  I don’t have a
specific update on if it has.  
  
Q    Do you have an updated death toll for the impact of Ian?  I know
there’s been a lot of conflicting numbers flying around from local
authorities, but does the federal government have an updated death toll
in Florida?  
  
ADMINISTRATOR CRISWELL:  We refer to the state’s numbers that they give
out for the death toll, and so I would look at what the governor’s
office is putting out today.   
  
Q    And can I ask, on Ian, if the federal government has a position on
whether you think Lee County officials should have evacuated faster,
earlier than less than 24 hours before the — before the storm hit?  
  
ADMINISTRATOR CRISWELL:  Yeah, what I’ll say is: We knew that we were
going to have widespread impacts as a result of this storm.  We put in
place, prior to landfall, the largest search and rescue capability
staged in different parts of the state to make sure that we could
augment the state capability and go in and start search and recovery
efforts as soon as the storm passed.   
  
They went in Thursday morning — somewhere around 4:00 a.m. is what I’m
told — to begin those recovery efforts.  As far as evacuation orders go,
that is a state and local responsibility.  We, as a federal government —
our role is to make sure we’ve got the resources positioned to go in and
support life-saving as soon as we can.   
  
Q    Can I ask a broad-brush question about both of these hurricanes? 
To what extent would you ascribe climate change as a reason for what’s
happening with these storms?  And to what extent can places like Puerto
Rico and these coastal states expect to just continue — have to keep
dealing with this for years and decades to come?   
  
ADMINISTRATOR CRISWELL:  You know, we’re seeing without a doubt — and
you’ve heard me say this before — an increase in the number of storms
that are happening and the severity of storms.   
  
I know that NOAA and other academic institutions will do some research
to understand what impact climate change may have had on this — these
storms — or these two storms.  But we know the risk is changing.   
  
And so, our focus has been to make sure that we are not basing all of
our preparedness actions and our mitigation measures on the risks that
we have faced in the past — the historical risks — but looking at
modeling and potential impacts that we think we’re going to see 5 and 10
years from now.  So as we put in mitigation projects that help
communities develop those projects, that they’re taking into account
what their future risk is going to be based on this new set of normal
that we’re seeing.

Q    The President said this morning, as he was heading out, that Puerto
Rico hasn’t been taken care of to the degree that they should be.

As this — you know, since this — this storm, in particular, like, what
sort of direction has he given to you?  Like how much does that reflect
this idea that he feels like we’ve been behind in — in helping or that
they’ve been behind in coming back?  
  
Like, what — what are those conversations like where he’s — you know,
where you’re giving him updates and he’s talking about sort of
prioritizing it?

ADMINISTRATOR CRISWELL:  Yeah, I’ll go back to — just even when I first
took over in this position, my first visit was to Puerto Rico to
understand the challenges that they were facing with their recovery
efforts and to make sure that they knew that this administration, the
Biden-Harris administration, was there for them and that we were going
to be able to support them.

After Hurricane Fiona, he directed me to go out there immediately
following the storm to check on the response efforts.  I went down into
the Ponce area where we’re going to be today.  I met with local mayors. 
And what I can tell you is — what they told me is they finally feel like
this administration cares for them and that they are going to be there
for them to support them through this response and this recovery
effort. 

That’s at the direction of the President.  He’s very focused on making
sure Puerto Ricans are taken care of.

Q    What have you heard from them about their sense of the prior
administration’s commitment, given, you know, we’re on this anniversary
of Donald Trump’s trip down there — obviously, infamous trip down there.

You know, what — what are they telling you, not just on — about your
commitment, but the last administration’s commitment?

ADMINISTRATOR CRISWELL:  Yeah, I’ll just say: We’re focused on helping
Puerto Rico.  We know that there may have been some issues in the
previous administration.  We are laser-focused on giving them the
support they need.  That’s what my job has been.  That’s what the
President has directed to me — me to do.  And that’s what I’m going to
continue to do.

Q    Can I ask you — in regards to Florida, there’s been a lot of
reporting about how the property insurance market in Florida is really
in quite a sense of disarray.  Do you anticipate that the federal
government will need to step in to provide additional assistance to
potentially bail out parts of the Florida insurance market?

ADMINISTRATOR CRISWELL:  So, there’s different types of insurance that
individuals need for things like that — property insurance that helps
with wind damage and then flood damage.  The flood piece is where the
National Flood Insurance Program that falls under FEMA’s purview comes
into play.

I know what the state is doing is they’re bringing in insurance villages
in the different areas to help people manage their claims.  We’re going
to be monitoring and working with them very closely to understand what
the impact is and to ensure that we can give whatever support is needed
for individuals.

We’ll have to have a longer conversation about long-term impacts to the
insurance industry.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Thank you.

ADMINISTRATOR CRISWELL:  Thank you.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  All right.  I’ll do a few more minutes.  These guys
want to get back in their seats.

I do want to say something, and I said this at the top: When it comes to
funding, yes, we are announcing $60 million for pecific \[sic\] —
specific pieces that we want to help Puerto Rico, but that’s on top of
the $2 billion that we — that has already been allocated through the —
through the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law that the President secured to
help Puerto Rico build their infrastructure to be stronger and more
resilient.

So that’s on top of that.  And I know folks were asking.  And then you
heard the Administrator talk about the $9.5 billion that was just
allocated from FEMA to deal with some infrastructure issues on the
ground.

And, you know, I think you were asking this question, Chris.  The last
administra- — administration, as I said at the top, restricted —
restricted ability to — for Puerto Rico to access $5 billion in funds. 
And so, that’s including for critical recovery and reconstruction
needs.  And so that’s what we saw in the last — the last administration.

If you think about where the President is going today, he’s going to the
most — the hardest-hit area of Puerto Rico.  And it is an area that
presidents have not gone to before.  And I think that shows the
President and the — and the First Lady’s commitment to the people of
Puerto Rico, to be able to go there to an area where, you know, people
have been — have lost almost everything.  And so I just wanted to put a
fine point on that. 

But go ahead, guys, whoever wants to go.

Q    Hey, Karine.  So, OPEC+ signaled over the weekend there could be a
production cut at their upcoming meeting of up to a million barrels. 
Isn’t that working at cross purposes from your goal of having low energy
prices?  And what, if anything, are you prepared to do in response?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So I’ve — as I’ve said before, and as we’ve — as many
of us in the administration have said before, you know, we’re not a
party, as you know, to OPEC+, and I’m not going to comment on what may
or may not happen.

I can say this: Our focus has been pretty — pretty steadfast, which has
been on taking every — every step to ensure markets are sufficiently
supplied to meet demand for a growing glo- — growing global economy. 
And thanks to our efforts, we have seen some energy prices have declined
sharply from their highs, and American consumers are paying far less at
the pump.

And so, that’s going to be our focus.  Again, not going to comment on
what may or may not happen.  We’ll let the meeting and — and the folks —

Q    Are you worried that a production cut could increase prices?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Again, I don’t want to get into hypotheticals here.  I
hear the — I hear what you’re saying.  I understand that is what is
predicted from this meeting.  I believe the meeting is going to happen
on Wednesday, but not going to get ahead of what the announcement could
potentially be.

Again, we are not part of OPEC+.  We are not members of OPEC+, and so I
don’t want to get ahead of what could potentially come out of that
meeting.

Q    Does the White House have a reaction to the UK government’s
decision to change its mind on cutting top tax — or taxes for top
earners?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So as I’ve said before, we’re just not going to
comment on UK policies, process.  That’s not something that we’re going
to comment, at least I won’t do that from here. 

The UK is a close ally, and we work with them on a range of issues,
including strengthening the global economy.

As always, we continue to monitor global financial markets.  That’s
something that we keep a close eye on.  And the President’s economic
team met with him most recently — as you know, we — we read — we read
that out — last week to brief him on the latest developments, and we’ll
continue to brief the President regularly as — as conditions clearly
evolve.  
But for our part, we’re focused on bringing down prices, investing in
the long term in our industrial policy infrastructure, and being
fiscally disciplined.   
  
And we believe that we are in a ston- — a strong position — the U.S. is
in a strong position to navigate these global challenges.  Again, you’ve
heard us talk about the importance of the Infrastructure Reduction Act. 
This — this play — comes into play as we continue to lower prices. 
You’ve heard us talk about all the work that this President has done on
lowering gas prices every day this summer.   
  
And so, that’s — that’s what we’re focusing on, on what we can do to
make sure that we give Americans a little bit more breathing room.  
  
Q    Just one little follow-up on that.  Has — has the President’s
economic team been in touch with Prime Minister Truss’s economic team
about something that has clearly caused havoc in financial markets over
the last week?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, one thing I can say is that, you know, we are in
discussions, like we always are, with — with the IMF and other partners
on challenges in the global economy.  I don’t have any specific
conversations as it relates to your question with our economic team
speaking directly.  
  
Q    Can you be more specific about the IMF piece?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have more to add except that we are in — we
are — you know, we tend to have regular conversations with the IMF.   
  
But clearly, we — you know, as I said, we’re not going to — I’m not
going to comment on the UK policies.  We are not involved in how they
move forward with their policies.  That is not something that we will —
that we are engaged in.  They are a close ally, and I’ll leave it
there.  
  
Q    Karine, will Governor DeSantis join President Biden in Florida on
Wednesday?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, I don’t have anything to read out on what that day
is going to look like.  Clearly, they have been in touch several times —
the President and Governor DeSantis.  They see this — this moment,
dealing with the aftermath of Hurricane Ian, as one team.  As you know,
the Administrator was on the ground with him and his team, just a couple
of days ago, assessing the damage.  And so they are going to continue to
stay in touch.  We’re going to continue our coordination.  
  
I do want to say — and I have said this before — the coordination that
you are seeing on the ground, that we’re hearing on the ground, this
rescue and search, is an unprecedented coordination.  It involves
several agencies just across the federal — the federal government.   
  
And we — they have — what we did and what the FEMA and her team did is
that they pre-positioned people on the ground before the storm hit to
make sure that there was water, generators, and food.  And now you are
seeing this — this, again, unprecedented coordination with local — with
the local government and the state to make sure that we are — we are
there for the people of Florida.  
  
And so, we’ll have more to share on what that day is going to look like
and who will be on the ground and who the President is going to be
meeting on the ground, as well, on Wednesday.  
  
Q    Do you anticipate the President making any other storm-related
visits, like to South Carolina?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have anything else to preview or share about
any other specific visits.  He is going to Florida, as we announced
yesterday.  I don’t have anything else.  
  
If we have more to — more to share on a potential additional stop, we
certainly will share that.  
  
Q    Did the President get any additional briefings on the breach of the
pipeline in the Baltic Sea over the weekend?  And does he have any, you
know, updated view on whether Russia might be behind the sabotage?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, we’re — I mean, we’ve been very clear that there’s
an investigation going on.  We’re going to let the investigation process
move forward.  It’s going to take some time, as you’ve heard from
myself, as you heard from Jake.  And I don’t have anything more to add
to that piece.  
  
Look, the President is regularly updated on foreign matters, as you
know, through his — with his national security team, but also his
foreign policy team more broadly.  I just don’t have anything more to
share.  
  
Q    Did the President have any reaction to the Brazilian elections
yesterday?  Does he see this as an important runoff — this runoff being
an important moment for global democracies?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, on the particular elections from yesterday in
Brazil, I will say the following here:  
  
We congratulate the — Brazil’s people and institutions on holding a
successful first-round election and support their free exercise of the
right to choose their next leader.  All available information indicates
that the first round of elections was conducted in a free, fair,
transparent, and credible manner with all relevant institutions
operating in accordance with their constitutional role.  And we share
Brazil’s confidence that the second will be conducted in the same way as
well.  
  
Q    And on Iran, there were reports of additional arrests in Iran
overnight.  And then the Ayatollah also came out saying, essentially,
that these riots are the result of foreign intervention, specifically, I
believe, citing the United States.  And I wanted to get the
administration’s response.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So we’re alarmed and appalled by reports of security
authorities responding to university students’ peaceful protests with
violence and mass arrests.  University students are the talented young
people who should be the future of Iran.  They are rightly
<s>engaged</s> \[enraged\] by the death of Mahsa Amini, the Iranian
government’s treatment of women and girls, and the ongoing violent
crackdown on peaceful protests.  
  
This weekend’s crackdowns are precisely the sort of behavior that drives
Iran’s talented young people to leave a country by the thousands to seek
the dignity and opportunity elsewhere.  
  
Go ahead.  All right.  Okay.  We’re getting a little bumpy.  (Laughs.)  
  
Q    (Inaudible) protests — again, to confirm — I know you’ve been asked
this before, but you don’t see it at all, I guess, posing any challenges
to the ongoing nuclear negotiations around trying to renew the JCPOA?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  The JCPOA?  Look, I mean, we have been — we have
concerns with Iran; we have said that before.  But the JCPOA is the best
way for us to address the nuclear problem that — that we see.  As long
as we believe pursuing JCPOA talks is in the U.S. national security
interest, we will do so.   
  
And so, at the same time, we will continue to use other tools to address
other problems with Iran’s behavior, as we have.  You’ve heard this from
the National Security Advisor, Jake Sullivan, say just a couple of days
ago that even though we are engaged in nuclear negotiations, we’re not
going to slow down one inch in our defense and advocacy for the rights
of the women and the citizens of Iran.  Even at the height of the Cold
War, as President Reagan was calling the Soviet Union an “evil empire,”
he was also engaged in arms control talks because he knew that on this —
on the one hand, we had to push back vigorously against the repression
of the Soviet Union.  And at the same time, we had to protect and defend
the security our — our — of ourselves, our allies, and our partners.   
  
Q    Can I ask one follow-up question?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Sure.  
  
Q    You mentioned the IMF, and that got my antenna up.  Did the U.S.
pressure the IMF to pressure the UK?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, not at all.  Not at all.  The reason I — the only
reason I brought it up: You asked me about specifically conver- — our
conversations of — if our economic team has had conversations with the
UK.  And what I was saying is, basically, no, there’s been no pressure —
so just to make that clear.  But we are in regular conversations with
the IMF.  But there’s been — we have not been involved.  We have not
been engaged.   
  
This is, again, UK’s policy.  We will not interfere or get involved in
what another country’s domestic policies are.  
  
Q    And one other little issue.  Republicans — some Republicans
criticized Vice President Harris’s comments about the role of equity in
responding to the storm — the storms and rebuild.  And their suggestion
was that the Vice President is suggesting that people of color will get
an advantage of some kind with the rebuilding efforts.  To the extent
that that needs to be clarified, can you clarify that?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:   Yes, I’m happy to clarify that.  Thank you for asking
the question.   
  
So that is not what the Vice President said.  The Vice President was
clearly talking about long-term investment, not FEMA aid, for hurricane
response efforts.   
  
The Vice President and the President have been clear that the federal
government has been and will continue to be there for all Americans
recovering from these devastating storms, as we’re seeing the President
and the First Lady do today and as we’ll see them do, clearly, in
Florida on Wednesday.  
  
We are committed to quickly getting resources to all communities
impacted, period, full stop.  But we also know that some people,
particularly in lower-income communities, have a hard time accessing
that help.  That’s why this administration has also made it a priority
to remove barriers and ensure that everyone, regardless of their ZIP
Code, can access federal resources.  And that’s what she was talking
about.  
  
All right.  Thanks, everybody.   
  
Q    Very quickly, just about Wednesday.  Just very, very quickly, to
follow up: You know, I think there’s a lot of attention based on Biden
and DeSantis’s relationship, and I just — you touched on it earlier.  I
just would love for you to describe the state of that relationship,
given how often they’ve been in communication.   
  
And then, additionally, the focus is Florida, the focus is recovery, but
does the President plan to voice his displeasure with the migrant
flights at all if he does come across DeSantis?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  (Inaudible) I was asked last week, I believe, if — if
that was discussed between the President and Governor DeSantis, and I
said no.  And you — you basically said it in your question, which is:
The focus is going to be on the people of Florida, getting that access
that they need, getting the resources that they need.   
  
Again, we are coordinating an unprecedented search — search and rescue
currently right now in Florida with — with — with just the whole kind of
full force of the federal government.   
  
And I’ll say this: As the President has said, we are all one team.  When
it comes to Hurricane Ian, we will continue to work alongside the
governor and local officials to support the people of Florida.  That’s
what’s going to matter when we go in Puerto Rico.  It’s going to be
about the people of Puerto Rico and everything that we can do to get
them back on their feet.  
  
We’re going to one of the — the hardest-hit area from Hurricane Fiona. 
And so that’s why the President is going to go there, to hear directly
from them.  And then, on Friday, we will do the same with the people of
Florida.  
  
Thanks, everybody.  
  
1:01 P.M. EDT
