---
date: '2024-06-28'
modified_time: 2024-06-28 13:57:19-04:00
published_time: 2024-06-28 14:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/06/28/memorandum-on-extending-eligibility-for-deferred-enforced-departure-for-liberians/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Memorandum on Extending Eligibility for Deferred Enforced Departure for\_\
  Liberians"
---
 
MEMORANDUM FOR THE SECRETARY OF STATE  
                THE SECRETARY OF HOMELAND SECURITY

SUBJECT:       Extending Eligibility for Deferred Enforced  
                Departure for Liberians

Since 1991, the United States has provided safe haven for Liberians who
were forced to flee their country as a result of armed conflict and
widespread civil strife, in part through the grant of Temporary
Protected Status (TPS) and Deferred Enforced Departure (DED).

In December 2019, the Congress enacted the National Defense
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 (Public Law 116-92) (NDAA), which
included, as section 7611, the Liberian Refugee Immigration Fairness
(LRIF) provision.  The LRIF provision, with limited exceptions, makes
Liberians who have been continuously present in the United States since
November 20, 2014, as well as their spouses and children, eligible for
adjustment of status to that of lawful permanent resident (LPR).  The
NDAA gave eligible Liberian nationals until December 20, 2020, to apply
for this adjustment of status.  After the enactment of the LRIF
provision, President Trump further extended the DED transition period
through January 10, 2021, to ensure that DED beneficiaries would
continue to be eligible for employment authorization during the LRIF
application period.

The LRIF application process was new and complex, resulting in some
procedural and administrative challenges.  Recognizing these
difficulties, the Congress enacted a 1-year extension to the application
period in section 901 of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2021
(Public Law 116-260).  That legislation, however, did not provide for
continued employment authorization past January 10, 2021.  Through my
memorandum of January 20, 2021 (Reinstating Deferred Enforced Departure
for Liberians), DED was subsequently reinstated through June 30, 2022,
in order to permit employment authorization for eligible Liberians while
they made their applications for adjustment of status under the LRIF
provision.  My memorandum of June 27, 2022 (Extending and Expanding
Eligibility for Deferred Enforced Departure for Liberians) (2022
Memorandum), further authorized an extension of DED for 24 months,
ending June 30, 2024, and expanded eligibility to those Liberian
nationals, or persons without nationality who last habitually resided in
Liberia, who had been continuously physically present in the United
States since May 20, 2017. 

There are compelling foreign policy reasons to extend DED for those
Liberians who have been continuously present in the United States since
May 20, 2017, and were eligible for DED under the 2022 Memorandum.
 Providing protection from removal and work authorization to these
Liberians, for whom we have long authorized TPS or DED in the United
States, honors the historic close relationship between the United States
and Liberia and is in the foreign policy interests of the United
States. 

Pursuant to my constitutional authority to conduct the foreign relations
of the United States, I have determined that it is in the foreign policy
interests of the United States to extend through June 30, 2026, deferred
removal for those Liberians already under a grant of DED under the 2022
Memorandum.  I have also determined that these Liberian nationals should
have continued employment authorization through June 30, 2026. 

The Secretary of Homeland Security shall promptly direct the appropriate
officials to make provision, by means of a notice published in the
Federal Register, for immediate allowance of employment authorization
and prompt issuance of new or replacement employment authorization
documents in appropriate cases for covered Liberians.

This grant of DED and continued employment authorization shall apply to
any person who was eligible for a grant of DED under the 2022
Memorandum, to include any Liberian national, or person without
nationality who last habitually resided in Liberia, who has been
continuously physically present in the United States since May 20, 2017,
but shall not apply to such persons in the following categories:

\(1\)  individuals who would be ineligible for TPS for the reasons
provided in section 244(c)(2)(B) of the Immigration and Nationality Act,
8 U.S.C. 1254a(c)(2)(B);

\(2\)  individuals who sought or seek LPR status under the LRIF
provision but whose applications have been or are denied by the
Secretary of Homeland Security due to ineligibility for the LRIF
provision under sections 7611(b)(1)(C) and (b)(3) of the NDAA;

\(3\)  individuals whose removal the Secretary of Homeland Security
determines is in the interest of the United States, subject to the LRIF
provision;

\(4\)  individuals whose presence or activities in the United States the
Secretary of State has reasonable grounds to believe would have
potentially serious adverse foreign policy consequences for the United
States;

\(5\)  individuals who have voluntarily returned to Liberia or their
country of last habitual residence outside the United States for an
aggregate period of 180 days or more, as specified in subsection (c)(2)
of the LRIF provision; or

\(6\)  individuals who are subject to extradition.

Accordingly, I hereby direct the Secretary of Homeland Security to take
the necessary steps to implement for eligible Liberians:

\(1\)  a deferral of enforced departure from the United States through
June 30, 2026, effective immediately; and

\(2\)  authorization for employment valid through June 30, 2026.

The Secretary of Homeland Security is authorized and directed to publish
this memorandum in the Federal Register.

                        JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.  
