---
date: '2024-06-24'
published_time: 2024-06-24 22:34:50-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/06/24/statement-by-white-house-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-on-district-court-rulings-on-the-biden-%e2%81%a0harris-administrations-save-plan/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Statement by White\_House Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre on District Court\
  \ Rulings on the Biden-\u2060Harris Administration\u2019s SAVE\_Plan"
---
 
We strongly disagree with today’s rulings on our SAVE Plan and the
Department of Justice will continue to vigorously defend the SAVE Plan.

Since day one, the President and his Administration have fought to fix a
broken student loan system and make sure borrowers aren’t saddled with
unmanageable student loan debt. Part of that effort includes creating
the most affordable student loan repayment plan ever — the SAVE Plan —
which for months has allowed 8 million Americans access to lower monthly
payments and has already helped hundreds of thousands of borrowers get
their remaining debt cancelled more quickly.

It’s unfortunate that Republican elected officials and their allies have
fought tooth and nail to prevent their constituents from accessing lower
payments and a faster path to debt forgiveness — and that courts are now
rejecting authority that the Department has applied repeatedly for
decades to improve income-driven repayment plans. 

Today’s rulings won’t stop our Administration from using every tool
available to give students and borrowers the relief they need. That’s
why the Department of Education will continue to enroll more Americans
in SAVE and help more students and borrowers access the benefits of the
plan that remain available, including $0 payments for anyone making $16
an hour or less, lower monthly payments for millions more borrowers, and
protecting borrowers from runaway interest if they are making their
monthly payments. 

President Biden and his Administration will continue to build off of the
progress made delivering debt cancellation to over 4.75 million
Americans through various actions, and we will never stop fighting for
students and borrowers – no matter how many roadblocks Republican
elected officials and special interests put in our way. 

\###
