---
date: '2024-06-20'
modified_time: 2024-06-20 10:58:32-04:00
published_time: 2024-06-20 10:55:05-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/06/20/remarks-by-national-economic-advisor-lael-brainard-on-lowering-costs-for-american-consumers/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Remarks by National Economic Advisor Lael Brainard on Lowering Costs for American\_\
  Consumers"
---
 
*Hosted by the Urban Institute and the Consumer Federation of America*  
*  
As Prepared for Delivery*

Thank you all for the important work you do on behalf of American
consumers every day.  
  
President Biden sees our economy through the eyes of middle-class
families like the ones he grew up with in Scranton, Pennsylvania. He
knows that a lot of families are feeling squeezed by the cost of living.
That’s why the President’s top economic priority is lowering costs.   
  
The President has directed his Administration to use every available
tool to lower costs for families in each important area of their
budgets. We have more work to do, but this plan is already putting
thousands of dollars back in many families’ pockets on everything from
insulin, to inhalers, to home heating, to credit card fees, to lower gas
prices*.* That may not sound like much to the wealthy, but those savings
add up for hardworking Americans.  And the President is fighting to
extend these savings to more Americans who stand to save thousands of
dollars more each year.  
  
The question now is: Do we want to continue fighting to build an economy
that gives families more breathing room by lowering costs? Or do we want
an economy that gives big corporations and the ultra-wealthy special
breaks and raises costs for everyone else?  
  
Many Republicans in Congress take every opportunity to call attention to
inflation, but they haven’t offered a single solution to bring costs
down. Instead, they want to take us backwards—including by imposing
broad tariffs on all imports that would raise families’ costs by
thousands of dollars per year.   
  
The President has a comprehensive plan to continue lowering costs across
the economy, from groceries and gas to healthcare and housing to
transportation and ticketing. Today, we are sharing a summary of these
actions that shows in detail the cost savings in every area of the
family budget from the President’s initiatives. I want to spend a few
minutes talking about what’s at stake in this debate—and some of the
core pillars of the President’s lowering costs agenda.  
  
**<u>Why Did Prices Increase</u>?**  
  
We know from the data that the pandemic drove the rise in inflation that
has squeezed Americans over the past few years.  In fact, every country
saw a similar surge in inflation as a result of the global economy
shutting down and supply chains breaking. The surge in inflation was
exacerbated by Russia’s invasion of Ukraine, which caused a sharp
increase in gasoline and food prices.  
  
The President took action in partnership with the private sector to
address supply chain bottlenecks and mitigate the impact of these
disruptions. Today, supply chains are largely back to normal, and
inflation has fallen by about two-thirds, and some areas, input costs
have come down. Yet some companies have been slow in passing these
savings on to consumers.   
  
I have talked about a price-price spiral where companies capitalize on
their pricing power to expand their margins when input prices go up.
Now, we are seeing some companies with pricing power keep their margins
high rather than pass along savings to consumers when input prices go
down.  
In fact, 2023 saw the highest after-tax profit rate for corporations
outside of the financial sector since at least 1947. 

<figure>
<img
src="https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/06/Picture2_ab709c.png"
class="wp-image-101263" decoding="async" loading="lazy"
sizes="(max-width: 1050px) 100vw, 1050px"
srcset="https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/06/Picture2_ab709c.png 1050w, https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/06/Picture2_ab709c.png?resize=615,308 615w, https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/06/Picture2_ab709c.png?resize=768,384 768w, https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/06/Picture2_ab709c.png?resize=590,295 590w, https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/06/Picture2_ab709c.png?resize=1200,600 1200w, https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/06/Picture2_ab709c.png?resize=1038,519 1038w"
style="width:595px;height:auto" width="1050" height="525" />
</figure>

Although we are beginning to see some signs of price reductions, there
is room for further disinflation as margins compress further.    
  
Where pricing power is high, in some industries, it reflects weak market
competition. When competitive pressures are strong, businesses must pass
along cost savings to consumers in order to keep or win their business.
The evidence suggests [three quarters of U.S. industries grew more
concentrated](https://academic.oup.com/rof/article/23/4/697/5477414?login=true)
in the decades before President Biden took office, which may have
contributed to weaker price competition in some sectors. That is why the
President’s efforts to lower costs for families have gone hand in hand
with his actions to strengthen market competition.   
  
**<u>Bringing Grocery Costs Down</u>**  
   
The President is focused on lowering the costs that are most important
to families, like groceries, which Americans purchase every week.
Grocery prices rose during the pandemic as deliveries piled up at ports,
and [increased another 11.8 percent in
2022](https://fred.stlouisfed.org/series/CUUR0000SAF11) due to Russia’s
invasion of Ukraine, which spiked food commodity prices. We worked with
farmers, grocery stores and shippers to improve supply chains and
restore global grain markets.   
  
But even though shipping costs and global food commodity prices have
declined sharply, grocery prices have been slow to come down, and
grocery store margins remain elevated relative to pre-pandemic levels.

<figure>
<img
src="https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/06/grocery-markup.png?w=640"
class="wp-image-101264" decoding="async" loading="lazy"
sizes="(max-width: 2618px) 100vw, 2618px"
srcset="https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/06/grocery-markup.png 2618w, https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/06/grocery-markup.png?resize=615,280 615w, https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/06/grocery-markup.png?resize=768,350 768w, https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/06/grocery-markup.png?resize=1270,578 1270w, https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/06/grocery-markup.png?resize=1536,699 1536w, https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/06/grocery-markup.png?resize=2048,932 2048w, https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/06/grocery-markup.png?resize=590,269 590w, https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/06/grocery-markup.png?resize=1180,537 1180w, https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/06/grocery-markup.png?resize=2360,1075 2360w, https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2024/06/grocery-markup.png?resize=1038,473 1038w"
width="2618" height="1192" />
</figure>

President Biden has called on large grocery chains to pass along their
savings to consumers and used his State of the Union Address to
spotlight the high prices set by many packaged food companies. 

Some grocery stores are answering the President’s call and lowering
prices on thousands of items, and we are seeing signs that grocery
prices may be turning a corner. Grocery prices have been
[down](https://fred.stlouisfed.org/series/CUSR0000SAF11) for each of the
past 4 months, and [have increased only
1%](https://www.bls.gov/news.release/cpi.htm) over the past year. In
fact, prices are [down](https://www.bls.gov/news.release/cpi.t02.htm)
over the past year for categories like fish and seafood, dairy products,
and fresh fruit.   

This is a start, but corporations have to do more to bring their prices
down, and the President will keep up the pressure on this issue.

For low-income families that are struggling to pay grocery bills, the
Administration has provided $2,000 more for groceries for a family of
four by [improving
SNAP](https://www.fns.usda.gov/news-item/usda-0179.21)—lifting 3 million
people out of poverty—and [launching Summer
EBT](https://www.fns.usda.gov/summer/sunbucks) grocery assistance for
nearly 21 million children. 

And yet against this backdrop, some Congressional Republicans actually
support putting tariffs on all food imports—raising prices by 10 percent
on everyday purchases like coffee, chocolate, berries, fish, bananas and
grapes.

**<u>Bringing Health Care Costs and Drug Prices Down</u>**

The President has also been fighting to bring down health care costs.

Americans pay [two to three times
more](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/03/15/fact-sheet-seniors-across-the-country-are-saving-millions-of-dollars-in-health-care-costs-because-of-president-bidens-prescription-drug-law/)
than people in other countries for the same prescription drugs. So it
was a big victory for the American people when President Biden secured
passage of the Inflation Reduction Act (IRA) that has brought down the
price of insulin to $35 a month for [seniors on
Medicare](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/08/15/by-the-numbers-the-inflation-reduction-act/)—saving
some as much as $365 per month—and got the [three largest insulin
producers](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/03/16/statement-from-president-joe-biden-on-top-three-insulin-producers-lowering-prices/)
to cap insulin prices for other Americans. And the President has
proposed making these savings available for the millions of younger
Americans that use insulin.

Starting next year, as a result of this law, out of pocket prescription
drug costs will also be [capped at $2,000 for
seniors](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/08/15/by-the-numbers-the-inflation-reduction-act/)—saving
19 million people $400 per year on average—and many thousands of dollars
a year for some. And the President is fighting to extend this cap for
all Americans.

Finally, thanks to the IRA, for the first time ever, Medicare is able to
negotiate lower prices for prescription drugs, [starting with 10 this
year](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/08/29/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-first-ten-drugs-selected-for-medicare-price-negotiation/)
and far more in the years to come. The President is fighting to extend
these benefits to even more drugs.

I want to be clear: this doesn’t just help family budgets—it helps the
federal budget too by lowering the deficit by [$160 billion over the
next ten
years](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/speeches-remarks/2023/08/29/remarks-by-president-biden-on-lowering-healthcare-costs/).
Here again, Congressional Republicans opposed these drug price
reductions—even though they reduce deficits, which means that, if they
prevailed, they would raise the cost of [prescription drugs and insulin
for tens of millions of
Americans](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/12/14/the-congressional-republican-agenda-on-prescription-drugs-giveaways-to-big-pharma-and-higher-costs-for-seniors-and-families/).

And it is not only drug prices. The President’s health insurance premium
tax credits enacted in the American Rescue Plan and extended by the IRA
are saving millions of Americans an average of about $800 per year on
[their health care
premiums](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/omb/briefing-room/2024/03/11/fact-sheet-the-presidents-budget-protects-and-increases-access-to-quality-affordable-healthcare/).
Republicans in Congress uniformly voted against this law and are working
to repeal the Affordable Care Act, which would raise health insurance
premiums for millions of Americans.

In addition, in response to administrative actions, some of the largest
inhaler producers have given eligible Americans access to inhalers
costing [$35 a month—saving around $1,200 per
year](https://www.ftc.gov/news-events/news/press-releases/2024/04/ftc-expands-patent-listing-challenges-targeting-more-300-junk-listings-diabetes-weight-loss-asthma)—and
the Biden Administration enacted rules that can help millions of
Americans save as much as [$3,000 on their hearing
aids](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/10/17/fact-sheet-cheaper-hearing-aids-now-in-stores-thanks-to-biden-harris-administration-competition-agenda/).

The President will continue to use every tool he has to lower health
care costs.

**<u>Bringing Transportation Costs Down</u>**

As we enter the summer travel season, prices at the pump are perhaps the
most visible price that Americans see every week.  National average gas
prices are [below $3.50](https://gasprices.aaa.com/) amid continued
record high domestic production.

This isn’t an accident. When gas prices spiked globally after Russia’s
invasion of Ukraine, the President took extraordinary action to bring
gas prices down. And additional actions by the Administration are
helping to keep gas prices in this lower range today. We are in the
process of releasing 1 million barrels of gas from the [Northeast
Gasoline Supply
Reserve](https://www.energy.gov/articles/us-department-energy-announces-sale-northeast-gasoline-supply-reserve-americans-hit-road),
in time for the July 4<sup>th</sup> holiday.

The President believes consumers should have choices about what type of
vehicle they want to drive. Thanks to Inflation Reduction Act tax
credits, we are lowering the price of a [new clean vehicle by up to
$7,500, and a used clean vehicle by up to
$4,000](https://home.treasury.gov/news/press-releases/jy2403).  These
clean vehicles are projected to lower fuel costs by an average of $700 a
year and maintenance costs by $500 per year. For the first time ever,
these tax credits are available up front at the dealer, as “cash on the
hood.” We’ve seen strong uptake of this provision, with [$1 billion in
upfront consumer savings in the first five months of
2024](https://home.treasury.gov/news/press-releases/jy2403) across more
than 150,000 clean vehicle sales.

In addition, we are lowering the costs of flights for many Americans. In
signing the bipartisan Federal Aviation Administration Reauthorization
Act, the President delivered on his commitment to address family seating
fees that are costly and frustrating for many families with young
children.  Eliminating family seating fees can save a [family with two
children $200 for a round trip
itinerary](https://www.forbes.com/sites/suzannerowankelleher/2023/03/07/airlines-charge-families-extra-sit-together).
And this law also provides passengers with [the
right](https://www.usatoday.com/story/travel/airline-news/2024/05/15/faa-reauthorization-passes-congress/73515882007/)
to [automatic cash
refunds](https://www.transportation.gov/briefing-room/dot-propose-requirements-airlines-cover-expenses-and-compensate-stranded-passengers)
for cancelled or delayed flights and lost luggage.

**<u>Bringing Housing and Utility Costs Down</u>**

The President knows that housing costs are a critical part of every
family’s budget. He has a comprehensive plan to lower housing costs for
families. He has called on Congress to [bring rent down by funding the
construction](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/03/19/fact-sheet-in-nevada-president-biden-to-double-down-on-plan-to-lower-housing-costs-and-increase-housing-supply-for-american-families/)
of 2 million affordable homes, and to provide mortgage relief of up to
$10,000 for millions of first-time homebuyers and homeowners seeking to
trade up or downsize.

Congress should move on that proposal immediately. A bipartisan bill
that would provide tax credits on the construction [of 200,000
additional
affordable](https://nlihc.org/resource/house-passes-bipartisan-tax-bill-without-lihtc-reforms)
units passed the House overwhelmingly in January, but is opposed by some
Senate Republicans. Instead, some Congressional Republicans seem intent
on protecting special tax breaks for corporate landlords and reducing
rental assistance programs.

We urge Congress to act, but we cannot simply wait. We recently
announced [a cap on annual rent
increases](https://www.huduser.gov/portal/datasets/il/il24/HUD-sec8-FY24.pdf)
for the 2 million households in Low-Income Housing Tax Credit units,
reducing the maximum that landlords can increase rent by an average of
about [$480
annually](https://www.novoco.com/periodicals/articles/it-time-hud-settle-consistent-method-determine-income-limits-cap).
We are going after rental junk fees that aren’t disclosed up front and
that can add hundreds of extra dollars on top of rent every month. 

Already, nearly [700,000 homeowners are saving roughly $900
annually](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/02/22/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-action-to-save-homebuyers-and-homeowners-800-per-year/)
as a result of the Administration’s reduction in mortgage interest
premiums for FHA-backed loans. [A title insurance
pilot](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/03/07/fact-sheet-president-biden-announces-plan-to-lower-housing-costs-for-working-families/)
could soon save thousands of Americans an average of $750 when they
refinance their homes.

In addition, the President has signed historic legislation that helps
families save on their utility bills. Thanks to the IRA, households that
install a heat pump [receive a $2,000 tax credit and save $500 each
year](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/05/13/fact-sheet-president-bidens-investing-in-america-agenda-is-helping-american-families-across-the-country-save-money/)
on energy bills. Households that install energy efficient doors, windows
and insulation [can save up to $1,200 per
year](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/05/13/fact-sheet-president-bidens-investing-in-america-agenda-is-helping-american-families-across-the-country-save-money/)
in tax credits. 

Moreover, under the Affordable Connectivity Plan, [23 million
families](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/getinternet/) have been able to
save approximately $360 each year on highspeed internet and the
President is fighting hard to keep this program in place.

**Fighting to Lower the Cost of Living**

The Biden Administration is taking action in numerous other areas where
Americans are facing high costs—from banking overdraft fees and credit
card late fees to filing taxes and attending live events.

On childcare, the Administration is saving lower-income families [$2,400
per
year](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/11/07/fact-sheet-historic-biden-harris-administration-investments-in-child-care-recovery-lowered-costs-for-millions-of-families-helped-speed-the-return-to-work-of-hundreds-of-thousands-mothers-and-grew-t/),
and the President has a plan to help families afford high-quality child
care for 16 million children, with the average family [saving $7,200 a
year](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/03/11/fact-sheet-the-presidents-budget-lowers-costs-for-the-american-people/).

And thanks to the President’s Saving on a Valuable Education program, or
SAVE, [the typical student borrower will save $1,000 a
year](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/08/22/fact-sheet-the-biden-harris-administration-launches-the-save-plan-the-most-affordable-student-loan-repayment-plan-ever-to-lower-monthly-payments-for-millions-of-borrowers/)
on their loan payments compared to other income-driven repayment plans.

The President has called out big corporations to pass along savings to
consumers, secured historic cost-lowering legislation, directed his
Cabinet to use every tool to lower costs, and eliminated hidden junk
fees in nearly every area of a family’s budget. Think about what these
savings mean to millions of hardworking families across the country.
 That’s what this work is ultimately about: more breathing room for
hardworking families. And that’s why this President is going to continue
fighting to lower costs for the American people every single day.

\###
