---
date: '2024-06-14'
modified_time: 2024-06-14 11:00:45-04:00
published_time: 2024-06-14 13:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/06/14/the-biden-harris-administrations-commitment-to-implementing-the-international-conference-on-population-and-development-icpd-consensus/
tags: statements-releases
title: "The Biden-\u2060Harris Administration\u2019s Commitment to Implementing the\
  \ International Conference on Population and Development (ICPD)\_Consensus"
---
 
In 1994, the world convened at the International Conference on
Population and Development (ICPD) in Cairo to recognize that
reproductive rights are human rights and that women’s health is
essential to global prosperity and opportunity for all.  As we celebrate
the thirtieth anniversary of this historic gathering, the Biden-Harris
Administration is announcing additional efforts to recommit to the
landmark consensus achieved through the ICPD Programme of Action. 

Advancing and protecting sexual and reproductive health and rights is
fundamental to achieving gender equity and equality and promoting the
human rights of women, girls, and LGBTQI+ persons, particularly those
who face multiple and intersecting forms of discrimination.  The United
States remains the largest bilateral donor to global family planning
assistance – a commitment spanning more than five decades – and we are
committed to supporting sexual and reproductive health services that
improve the lives and wellbeing of everyone, advance dignity and human
rights, promote gender equality, and ensure that women can control their
own futures.

Since the earliest days of the Administration, President Biden and Vice
President Harris have resolutely supported sexual and reproductive
health and rights.  The January 2021 Presidential Memorandum on
Protecting Women’s Health at Home and Abroad revoked the expanded global
gag rule, restored life-saving funding to the United Nations Population
Fund (UNFPA), and required that adequate funds be directed to support
women’s health needs globally, including for sexual and reproductive
health services.  With Fiscal Year 2023 funds, the United States
provided $620 million to support global maternal and child health
programs and $607.5 million to support global family planning and
reproductive health programs, including $32.5 million in core funding to
support UNFPA.      

Today, we are announcing the following initiatives to help accelerate
access to family planning, prevent maternal mortality, and address
gender-based violence:

**Improve Access to Family** **Planning and Reproductive Health**

As the largest bilateral donor to family planning, the United States
will continue its efforts to meet sexual and reproductive health needs
and make pregnancy and childbirth safer by strengthening health systems
and integrated health services, including access to family planning. 
Key initiatives to support this commitment include:

-   **Increase Access to Family Planning:**  In alignment with ICPD+30
    priorities on youth and the UN Sustainable Development Goals focus
    on “No One Left Behind,” USAID commits to supporting family planning
    progress in West Africa through an expected $86.5 million in Fiscal
    Year 2023 family planning and reproductive health (FP/RH) funds
    programmed in the nine Francophone West African countries that form
    the Ouagadougou Partnership and report some of the lowest
    contraceptive use rates and highest maternal mortality ratios in the
    world.  This funding level represents an increase of $15.5 million
    over prior year commitments for these countries and will accelerate
    improvements in sexual and reproductive health care in the region by
    increasing access to voluntary family planning information and
    services.

<!-- -->

-   **Address Barriers to Reproductive Health:**  To advance ICPD+30
    priorities, USAID will announce the Accelerating Choice, Equity, and
    Sustainability for Services (ACCESS) program, providing $1.2 million
    to address persistent barriers to access, equity, and quality of
    family planning and reproductive health care, particularly with and
    for adolescents and youth, persons with disabilities, indigenous
    persons, migrants, and members of other underserved and
    underrepresented groups, such as LGBTQI+ persons.

<!-- -->

-   **Improve Population Data:**  USAID will amplify its multi-decade
    commitment to advance population data availability and
    accessibility, including key data about women, girls, and
    underserved communities, through two initiatives:  first, a new
    Demographic and Health Surveys Program, which will include an
    increased focus on data collection, analysis, and use to better
    identify inequities and respond to the needs of marginalized or
    vulnerable populations; and second, the U.S. Census Bureau
    Inter-Agency Agreement, which includes a sharpened focus on reaching
    marginalized groups.

**Prevent Maternal Mortality and Morbidity**

Although the global maternal mortality rate has fallen, approximately
300,000 women and girls die every year from largely preventable
conditions related to pregnancy and childbirth.  The United States is
committed to supporting safe, respectful, and client-centered maternal
and reproductive health services that address the major causes of
maternal mortality and morbidity, with a focus on 25 countries that
account for 70 percent of maternal and child deaths worldwide, including
in conflict- and crisis-affected settings.  These efforts are bolstered
by the 2024 World Health Assembly 77 resolution co-sponsored by the
United States to “Accelerate progress towards reducing maternal,
newborn, and child mortality in order to achieve SDG targets 3.1 and
3.2.”  Key initiatives to support this commitment include:

-   **Enhance Availability of Maternal Healthcare: ** USAID, in
    partnership with the UK Foreign, Commonwealth and Development
    Office, will enhance access, availability, and affordability of
    quality family planning, reproductive health, and maternal health
    commodities. USAID’s $1.6 million investment will strengthen supply
    chains and health care systems and help low- and middle-income
    countries bolster their pharmaceutical infrastructure and regulatory
    quality assurance systems for medical products. Adequate access to
    maternal health commodities, including medications for prenatal
    care, safe delivery, and postpartum support, is critical for
    preventing complications during pregnancy and childbirth, ultimately
    reducing maternal mortality rates.  This builds on longstanding
    USAID investments to strengthen the supply chain in the health
    sector.

<!-- -->

-   **Pioneer Solutions to Prevent Postpartum Hemorrhage: ** USAID, in
    collaboration with the Gates Foundation, is introducing an
    innovative approach to detect and treat postpartum hemorrhage in
    three countries, partnering directly with their governments to
    address the leading cause of maternal mortality globally.  This
    approach harnesses new research findings that demonstrate how
    directly measuring blood and bundling several existing interventions
    can enhance the early detection and timely treatment of postpartum
    hemorrhage, which has the potential to decrease severe bleeding by
    60 percent and thereby save maternal lives.

**Address Child, Early, and Forced Marriage and Female Genital
Mutilation and Cutting**

The United States supports key UN partners, including UNFPA and the
United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF), through contributions to core
funding as well as dedicated support to address female genital
mutilation and cutting (FGM/C) and child, early, and forced marriage
(CEFM), two forms of gender-based violence that disproportionately
affect girls and have lifelong consequences on the health and wellbeing
of women, their families, and communities.  Globally, one in five girls
is married before the age of 18, and pregnancy and childbirth-related
complications remain a leading cause of death for girls aged 15 to 19
globally.  CEFM is a violation of girls’ bodily autonomy that can leads
to increased risk of pregnancy-related morbidity and mortality and
negatively affect infant health.  Key initiatives to support this
commitment include:

-   **Prevent Child, Early, and Forced Marriage: ** USAID invested $38.2
    million in FY 2021 and FY 2022 to address child, early, and forced
    marriage around the world.  These programs focus on equipping girls
    and young women with education and workforce readiness skills;
    mitigating harmful effects of child marriage through education,
    health, legal, and economic support; and raising awareness of the
    risks and harms associated with child marriage.

<!-- -->

-   **Help End Female Genital Mutilation/Cutting:**  The United States
    is a long-standing donor to the UNICEF-UNFPA Joint Programme on the
    Elimination of Female Genital Mutilation, providing a contribution
    of $5 million in Fiscal Year 2023 funds.  Since Fiscal Year 2017*,*
    the United States has invested this annual funding in the Joint
    Programme, which has succeeded in advocating for legal and policy
    frameworks banning FGM/C in 14 of 17 countries and supporting more
    than 6.3 million women and girls with FGM/C-related protection and
    care services.

<!-- -->

-   **Partnership to End Child, Early, and Forced Marriage:**  For the
    first time, the United States provided a direct contribution of
    $500,000 in Fiscal Year 2022 funds to the UN Global Programme to End
    Child Marriage, which supports the health and rights of adolescent
    girls in 12 countries in Africa and South Asia with high prevalence
    of CEFM.  Since 2016, the Global Programme has reached 21 million
    girls and supported the proposal or adoption of 94 policies and
    legal instruments addressing child marriage in line with
    international human rights law.

\###
