---
date: '2024-06-05'
published_time: 2024-06-05 17:34:12-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/06/05/national-day-of-remembrance-of-the-80th-anniversary-of-d-day/
tags: statements-releases
title: "National Day of Remembrance of the 80th Anniversary of\_D-Day"
---
 
On the evening of June 6, 1944, President Franklin D. Roosevelt
broadcast a prayer for the Nation.  At the time, war was raging in
Europe, and Hitler controlled most of it.  Freedom and democracy were
under assault around the world.  But on that day, hope had landed on the
beaches of Normandy when 73,000 Americans joined the Allied forces to
carry out one of the greatest military missions of all time — a mission
that would become known as D-Day.  Knowing the fate of the free world
rested in their hands, President Roosevelt asked our Nation to pray for
these courageous service members’ strength as they “set upon a mighty
endeavor, a struggle to preserve our Republic, our religion, and our
civilization, and to set free a suffering humanity.”  On the 80th
anniversary of D-Day, may we thank these service members for their
bravery and sacrifice.  May we honor their heroism, which liberated a
continent and saved the world.  And may we recommit to the future they
fought and which many died for.

The brave Airmen, Coast Guardsmen, Sailors, Soldiers, and Marines who
fought on D-Day faced unparalleled resistance.  Nazi Germany had
reinforced the Atlantic Wall, lining miles of dangerous cliffs and rocky
coastlines with landmines, beach and water obstacles, and machine
gunners while also reinforcing its bunkers.  So, when 7,000 vessels
carrying nearly 160,000 service members from eight Allied countries
approached Normandy, victory was never guaranteed.  Our paratroopers
that jumped behind enemy lines in the night and other military forces
had to endure barrages of gunfire, trek through barbed wire, and climb
steep sea walls.  Over 2,500 Americans made the ultimate sacrifice,
giving their lives so that the whole world might know freedom.

Today, we remember all the Americans who laid down their lives on D-Day
to help end the tyranny of fascism across Europe, liberate oppressed
peoples, and ensure the flame of liberty would burn bright around the
world.  Their success marked the beginning of the end of Nazi brutality,
World War II, and the Holocaust — one of the darkest chapters in human
history.  It set the foundations of an enduring peace that still helps
guide international cooperation and affairs today.  We owe these service
members, who represent the greatest of the Greatest Generation, as well
as their families a debt of gratitude that we can never fully repay.   

As we reflect on the sacrifices made on D-Day, we are reminded that
freedom is not free and it has never been guaranteed.  Every generation
has to earn it, fight for it, and defend it in the battle between
autocracy and democracy — between the greed of a few and the rights of
many.  Eighty years after our Nation’s brave Airmen, Coast Guardsmen,
Sailors, Soldiers, and Marines embarked on D-Day — and as Americans
everywhere answered the call to prayer and filled their hearts and homes
with hope — may we honor the faith they kept in our Nation and their
legacy by upholding the future that they died for — one grounded in
freedom, democracy, opportunity, and equality for all.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim June 6, 2024, as a
National Day of Remembrance of the 80th Anniversary of D-Day.  I call
upon all Americans to observe this day with programs, ceremonies, and
activities that honor those who fought and died so that men and women
they had never met might know what it is to be free.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this fifth day of
June, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-four, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-eighth.

                              JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
