---
date: '2024-06-18'
published_time: 2024-06-18 17:41:46-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/06/18/readout-of-white-house-roundtable-on-best-practices-to-increase-women-in-construction/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Readout of White\_House Roundtable on Best Practices to Increase Women in\_\
  Construction"
---
 
Today, Director of the Gender Policy Council Jennifer Klein, Domestic
Policy Advisor Neera Tanden, and Deputy Chief of Staff Natalie Quillian,
alongside Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (EEOC) Vice Chair
Jocelyn Samuels, Solicitor of Labor Seema Nanda, and Department of
Commerce CHIPS Program Office Director Michael Schmidt, met with
semiconductor manufacturers, construction contractors, labor unions,
tradeswomen groups, and advocates to discuss best practices that will
expand the construction workforce by creating pathways for women and
other underrepresented groups, as part of President Biden’s Investing in
America agenda.

Women currently represent less than 11 percent of workers in the
construction industry, and less than 5 percent of workers in skilled
construction trades occupations. Growing the share of women and other
underrepresented groups in construction is critical to delivering
President Biden’s Investing in America agenda, which is creating
millions of good-paying jobs and union jobs in infrastructure,
semiconductors, and clean energy.

Participants in the roundtable discussed the Biden-Harris
Administration’s commitment to increasing inclusion of women and
underrepresented communities in the construction industry; heard from
union leaders and tradeswomen about successful strategies to recruit,
train, and retain women; and highlighted the following new
announcements:

1.  **GlobalFoundries and Polar Semiconductor joined Intel and Micron in
    voluntarily committing to the Department of Commerce’s** [**CHIPS
    Women in Construction
    Framework**](https://www.commerce.gov/news/press-releases/2024/05/us-department-commerce-launches-chips-women-construction-framework). 
    Under the Framework, companies will work with contractors, trade
    unions, and other community and workforce partners to implement best
    practices that will expand the construction workforce by increasing
    the participation of women and economically disadvantaged
    individuals.  So far, companies have convened and engaged
    stakeholders on this topic in sites with ongoing or planned
    semiconductor projects, including Boise, ID, Syracuse, NY, Columbus,
    OH, and Albany, NY, as well as plans to do so in Bloomington, MN. 
    These recruitment and retention best practices will help support
    on-time and successful completion of CHIPS program-funded projects.

<!-- -->

1.  **Bechtel and Turner Construction joined Mortenson and other
    construction companies in signing onto the Department of
    Commerce’s** [**Million Women in Construction Community
    Pledge**](https://www.commerce.gov/issues/million-women-construction-initiative/million-women-construction-community-pledge). 
    The Pledge is a call to action to encourage companies to build on
    their workforce development and recruitment efforts to broaden
    opportunities for women. By signing onto the Pledge, industry
    leaders are signaling an ongoing commitment to increase women’s
    access to training, jobs and leadership opportunities. Bechtel and
    Turner Construction join Mortensen, Baker Construction, Gilbane
    Building Company, McKissack & McKissack, Power Design, Shawmut
    Design and Construction, and Suffolk Construction who signed on last
    month.

<!-- -->

1.  **The EEOC released a new resource,** [***Promising Practices for
    Preventing Harassment in the Construction
    Industry***](https://www.eeoc.gov/promising-practices-preventing-harassment-construction-industry),
    detailing promising practices for preventing and remedying
    harassment in the construction industry, including committed and
    engaged leadership; consistent and demonstrated accountability;
    strong and comprehensive harassment policies; trusted and accessible
    complaint procedures; and regular, interactive training tailored to
    the construction workplace.

<!-- -->

1.  **The Department of Commerce, Department of Energy, and Department
    of Transportation, in consultation with the Department of Labor,
    will publish a new resource** about best practices for both project
    success and increasing inclusion of women in construction trades.

These announcements build on the Biden-Harris Administration’s ongoing
efforts to reduce barriers and increase access for women and
underrepresented communities in the construction trades, including: the
Department of Commerce’s novel requirement that certain CHIPS and
Science Act funding recipients ensure access to affordable, reliable,
high-quality child care for their workers with young children; the
Department of Labor’s toolkit on [Building an Equitable Infrastructure
Workforce: Gender Equity Strategies as a
Model](https://www.dol.gov/sites/dolgov/files/WB/media/WB-issuebrief-Equity-Module.pdf),
including strategies, resources, and examples for building a diverse
workforce, conducting targeted recruitment and addressing barriers to
entry, and retaining a diverse workforce; and the Department of
Transportation’s report on [Investing in America: Best Practices to
Expand Access to Jobs and Economic Opportunity Through Transportation
Infrastructure
Investments](https://www.transportation.gov/sites/dot.gov/files/2024-02/Best%20Practices%20to%20Expand%20Accessto%20Jobs%20and%20Economic%20Opportunity%20final_.pdf),
detailing barriers for underrepresented populations, including women, to
access construction jobs and recommendations for enhancing diversity in
the construction workforce.

Participants included representatives from companies that have signed
onto the CHIPS Women in Construction Framework (Intel Corporation,
Micron Technology, GlobalFoundries, and Polar Semiconductor); companies
that have signed onto the Million Women in Construction Community Pledge
(Mortenson, Bechtel, Turner Construction); as well as labor union and
advocate partners from North America’s Building Trades Unions,
TradesFutures, International Union of Painters and Allied Trade, United
Association, and Equal Rights Advocates.

\###
