---
date: '2024-06-14'
modified_time: 2024-06-14 13:48:01-04:00
published_time: 2024-06-14 13:39:36-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/06/14/g7-leaders-statement-8/
tags: statements-releases
title: "G7 Apulia Leaders\u2019\_Communiqu\xE9"
---
 
**Preamble**

We, the Leaders of the Group of Seven (G7), gathered in Apulia to
reaffirm our enduring unity and determination to meet global challenges
at a crucial moment in history and as the international community
confronts multiple interconnected crises.

We reiterate our shared belief in democratic principles and free
societies, universal human rights, social progress, and respect for
multilateralism and the rule of law. We commit to providing
opportunities and pursuing shared prosperity. We seek to strengthen
international rules and norms for the benefit of all.

Our work is grounded in our commitment to respect the UN Charter,
safeguard international peace and security, and uphold the free and open
rules-based international order. We will support more effective,
inclusive and equitable global governance that reflects our changing
world. We reaffirm our commitment to uphold human dignity and the rule
of law in all parts of the world.

We are working together and with others to address the pressing
challenges of our time. We are:

-   standing in solidarity to support Ukraine’s fight for freedom and
    its reconstruction for as long as it takes. In the presence of
    President Zelenskyy, we decided to make available approximately USD
    50 billion leveraging the extraordinary revenues of the immobilized
    Russian sovereign assets, sending an unmistakable signal to
    President Putin. We are stepping up our collective efforts to disarm
    and defund Russia’s military industrial complex.
-   united in supporting the comprehensive deal that has been put
    forward that would lead to an immediate ceasefire in Gaza, the
    release of all hostages, and a credible pathway towards peace that
    leads to a two-State solution. We also call for a significant and
    sustained increase in humanitarian assistance.
-   engaging with African countries, in a spirit of equitable and
    strategic partnership. As they work to deliver sustainable
    development and industrial growth for their people, we are advancing
    our respective efforts to invest in sustainable infrastructure,
    including through the PGII, and we launched the Energy for Growth in
    Africa initiative, together with several African partners.
-   acting to enable countries to invest in their future and achieve the
    Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), recognizing that reducing
    poverty and tackling global challenges go hand in hand. We are doing
    our part to achieve better, bigger and more effective Multilateral
    Development Banks, making it possible for the World Bank to boost
    its lending by USD 70 billion over the next ten years. We are
    calling for action from the international community to address debt
    burdens.

<!-- -->

-   reinforcing global food security and enhancing climate resilience,
    including by launching the Apulia Food Systems Initiative.
-   reaffirming our commitment to gender equality. Together with
    International Financial Institutions, we will unlock at least USD 20
    billion over three years in investments to boost women’s
    empowerment.
-   taking concrete steps to address the triple crisis of climate
    change, pollution, and biodiversity loss, including by submitting
    ambitious 1.5°C aligned Nationally Determined Contributions. We will
    spearhead global efforts to preserve forests and oceans, and to end
    plastic pollution.
-   affirming our collective commitment and enhanced cooperation to
    address migration, tackle the challenges and seize the opportunities
    that it presents, in partnership with countries of origin and
    transit. We will focus on the root causes of irregular migration,
    efforts to enhance border management and curb transnational
    organized crime, and safe and regular pathways for migration. We
    launched the G7 Coalition to prevent and counter the smuggling of
    migrants. 
-   deepening our cooperation to harness the benefits and manage the
    risks of Artificial Intelligence. We will launch an action plan on
    the use of AI in the world of work and develop a brand to support
    the implementation of the International Code of Conduct for
    Organizations Developing Advanced AI Systems.
-   fostering strong and inclusive global economic growth, maintaining
    financial stability and investing in our economies to promote jobs
    and accelerate digital and clean energy transitions. We also remain
    committed to strengthening the rules-based multilateral trading
    system and to implementing a more stable and fairer international
    tax system fit for the 21st century.
-   acting together to promote economic resilience, confront non-market
    policies and practices that undermine the level playing field and
    our economic security, and strengthen our coordination to address
    global overcapacity challenges.

 In taking forward all these priorities, our partnership in the G7 will
continue to be guided by our joint commitment to cooperate openly and
transparently in a coordinated manner.  
   
We are grateful for the presence of His Holiness Pope Francis and for
his contribution.  
   
In a spirit of shared responsibility, we warmly welcome the
participation of the Leaders of Algeria, Argentina, Brazil, India,
Jordan, Kenya, Mauritania, Tunisia, Türkiye, and the United Arab
Emirates.  
  
**Steadfast support to Ukraine**  
  
We reaffirm our unwavering support for Ukraine for as long as it takes.
Together with international partners, we are determined to continue to
provide military, budget, humanitarian, and reconstruction support to
Ukraine and its people. We remain strongly committed to helping Ukraine
meet its urgent short-term financing needs, as well as supporting its
long-term recovery and reconstruction priorities.  
  
Russia must end its illegal war of aggression and pay for the damage it
has caused to Ukraine. These damages now exceed USD 486 billion,
according to the World Bank. It is not right for Russia to decide if or
when it will pay for the damage it has caused in Ukraine. Russia’s
obligations under international law to pay for the damage it is causing
are clear, and so we are continuing to consider all possible lawful
avenues by which Russia is made to meet those obligations.  
  
We remain determined to dispel any false notion that time is on Russia’s
side, that destroying infrastructure and livelihoods has no consequences
for Russia, or that Russia can prevail by causing Ukraine to fail
economically. With a view to supporting Ukraine’s current and future
needs in the face of a prolonged defense against Russia, the G7 will
launch “Extraordinary Revenue Acceleration (ERA) Loans for Ukraine”, in
order to make available approximately USD 50 billion in additional
funding to Ukraine by the end of the year.  
  
Therefore, without prejudice to possible other contributions and
standing together, the G7 intends to provide financing that will be
serviced and repaid by future flows of extraordinary revenues stemming
from the immobilization of Russian Sovereign Assets held in the European
Union and other relevant jurisdictions. To enable this, we will work to
obtain approval in these jurisdictions to use future flows of these
extraordinary revenues to service and repay the loans. We confirm that,
consistent with all applicable laws and our respective legal systems,
Russia’s sovereign assets in our jurisdictions will remain immobilized
until Russia ends its aggression and pays for the damage it has caused
to Ukraine. We will maintain solidarity in our commitment to providing
this support to Ukraine.  
  
We intend to disburse this financing through multiple channels that
direct the funds to Ukraine’s military, budget, and reconstruction needs
– within the constraints of our respective legal systems and
administrative requirements. As it relates to reconstruction, we will
also strengthen the Ukraine Multi-Donor Coordination Platform to help
coordinate the disbursal of funds and ensure they align with Ukraine’s
highest priority needs at a pace it can effectively absorb. This will
play a key role in advancing Ukraine’s reforms in line with its European
path.  
  
In light of the above, we task our relevant Ministers and officials to
operationalize these commitments in time for ERA to begin disbursing
before year-end.  
  
As we reiterated in our Statement on Ukraine in February, Ukraine is
defending its freedom, sovereignty, independence, and territorial
integrity, against Russia’s brutal and unjustifiable war of aggression.
We continue to condemn in the strongest possible terms Russia’s blatant
breach of international law, including the UN Charter and of basic
principles that underpin the international order. Any use of nuclear
weapons by Russia in the context of its war of aggression against
Ukraine would be inadmissible. We therefore condemn in the strongest
possible terms Russia’s irresponsible and threatening nuclear rhetoric
as well as its posture of strategic intimidation, including its
announced deployment of nuclear weapons in Belarus. We remain committed
to holding those responsible accountable for their atrocities against
the people of Ukraine, in line with international law. We also condemn
the seizures of foreign companies and call on Russia to reverse these
measures and seek acceptable solutions with the companies targeted by
them.  
  
We support Ukraine’s right of self-defense and reiterate our commitment
to Ukraine’s long-term security, including by implementing bilateral
security commitments and arrangements based on the Joint Declaration
endorsed in Vilnius last July. We are increasing our production and
delivery capabilities to assist its self-defense. We also support
efforts to assist Ukraine modernizing its armed forces and strengthening
its own defense industry. We express our resolve to bolster Ukraine’s
air defense capabilities to save lives and protect critical
infrastructure.  
  
We are committed to raising the costs of Russia’s war by building on the
comprehensive package of sanctions and economic measures already in
place. Though our measures have had a significant impact on Russia’s
ability to build its war machine and to fund its invasion, its military
is still posing a threat not just to Ukraine but also to international
security.  
  
We will continue taking measures against actors in China and third
countries that materially support Russia’s war machine, including
financial institutions, consistent with our legal systems, and other
entities in China that facilitate Russia’s acquisition of items for its
defense industrial base.  
  
In this context, we reiterate that entities, including financial
institutions, that facilitate Russia’s acquisition of items or equipment
for its defense industrial base are supporting actions that undermine
the territorial integrity, sovereignty, and independence of Ukraine.
Accordingly, we will impose restrictive measures consistent with our
legal systems to prevent abuse and restrict access to our financial
systems for targeted individuals and entities in third countries,
including Chinese entities, that engage in this activity. We will take
robust action against actors who aid Russia in circumventing our
sanctions, including by imposing severe costs on all those who fail to
immediately cease providing material support to Russia’s aggression and
by strengthening domestic enforcement and stepping up our business
engagement to promote corporate responsibility. We call on financial
institutions to refrain from supporting and profiting from Russia’s war
machine. We will take further steps to deter and disrupt this
behaviour.   
  
We will continue to apply significant pressure on Russian revenues from
energy and other commodities. This will include improving the efficacy
of the oil price cap policy by taking further steps to tighten
compliance and enforcement, while working to maintain market stability.
We will take steps, including sanctions and innovative enforcement
activities leveraging respective geographies, to combat Russia’s use of
deceptive alternative shipping practices to circumvent our sanctions by
way of its shadow fleet. We call on industry actors facilitating this
activity to consider the financial liability and environmental and
reputational damage risks associated with these practices. We will
impose additional sanctions measures on those engaged in deceptive
practices while transporting Russian oil and against the networks Russia
has developed to extract additional revenue from price cap violations or
from oil sales using alternative service providers. We will continue
taking further steps to limit Russia’s future energy revenues by
impeding development of future energy projects and disrupting access to
the goods and services on which those projects rely.  We will continue
our efforts to reduce Russia’s revenues from metals.  
  
Ukraine’s reconstruction remains a key priority, including early
recovery measures and addressing the current energy emergency caused by
Russia’s increased targeting of Ukraine’s energy infrastructure. We
re-emphasize our strong support for Ukraine’s energy security, including
by coordinating international assistance through the G7+ Ukraine Energy
Coordination Group. We will continue to work with the Ukrainian
authorities and International Financial Institutions through the
Multi-agency Donor Coordination Platform, and by mobilizing private
investments and fostering participation of civil society.  
  
We highlight the reality of 3.4 million internally displaced Ukrainians
and the importance of inclusive recovery and the need to address the
needs of women, children and persons with disabilities as well as other
population groups who have been disproportionately affected by Russia’s
war of aggression. The reintegration of combatants and civilians with
disabilities in society remains a priority. We call on Russia to release
all persons it has unlawfully detained and to safely return all
civilians it has illegally transferred or deported, starting with
children.  
We reiterate our support for Ukraine’s agriculture sector, which is
critical for global food supply, particularly for the most vulnerable
nations. We therefore call for unimpeded deliveries of grain,
foodstuffs, fertilizers and inputs from Ukraine across the Black Sea and
recall the importance of the EU Solidarity Lanes and President
Zelenskyy’s Grain from Ukraine initiative.  
  
We are also working to involve our private sectors in the sustainable
economic recovery of Ukraine. We welcome and underscore the significance
of Ukraine itself continuing to implement domestic reform efforts,
especially in the fields of anti-corruption, justice system reform,
decentralization, and promotion of the rule of law. We will continue to
support efforts of the Ukrainian government and people in these
endeavors. We will build on the Japan-Ukraine Conference for Promotion
of Economic Growth and Reconstruction held in Tokyo on 19 February and
the Ukraine Recovery Conference held on 11-12 June in Berlin and we look
forward to the next Ukraine Recovery Conference in Rome in 2025.  
  
We welcome the Summit on Peace in Ukraine planned in Switzerland on
15-16 June to build a framework for peace based on international law,
the UN Charter and its principles, with respect for Ukraine’s
sovereignty and territorial integrity. We will continue to work to
achieve the widest possible international support for the key principles
and objectives of President Zelenskyy’s Peace Formula.  
  
Our ultimate goal remains a just, lasting and comprehensive peace in
line with international law and the UN Charter and its principles and
respect for Ukraine’s sovereignty and territorial integrity. We will
continue to stand by Ukraine for as long as it takes.  
   
**Conflict in Gaza**  
  
We reiterate our strongest condemnation of the brutal terrorist attacks
conducted by Hamas and other terrorist groups against Israel on 7
October 2023. We express our full solidarity and support to Israel and
its people and reaffirm our unwavering commitment towards its security.
In exercising its right to defend itself, Israel must fully comply with
its obligations under international law in all circumstances, including
international humanitarian law. We condemn Hamas for its continuing use
of civilian infrastructure for its military activities and failure to
separate and distinguish itself from civilians in Gaza. We deplore all
losses of civilian lives equally, and note with great concern the
unacceptable number of civilian casualties especially women and
children. We call on all parties to take every feasible step to protect
civilian lives.  
  
We fully endorse and will stand behind the comprehensive deal outlined
by President Biden that would lead to an immediate ceasefire in Gaza,
the release of all hostages, a significant and sustained increase in the
flow of humanitarian assistance throughout Gaza, and an enduring end to
the crisis, with Israel’s security interests and safety for Palestinian
civilians in Gaza assured. In this regard, we welcome UNSC Resolution
S/RES/2735 (2024). We reiterate our call on Hamas to fully and
unequivocally accept and implement the cease fire proposal, as outlined
in Resolution 2735, and urge countries with influence over Hamas to help
ensure that it does so. We welcome Israel’s acceptance of the proposal
and readiness to move forward with it.  
  
We urge all parties to facilitate rapid and unimpeded passage of
humanitarian relief for civilians in need, in particular women and
children. Securing full, rapid, safe, and unhindered humanitarian access
in all its forms, consistent with international humanitarian law, and
through all relevant land crossing points, including the Rafah crossing,
through maritime delivery routes, including through Ashdod Port, and
throughout all of Gaza remains an absolute priority. We agree it is
critical that UNRWA and other UN organizations and agencies’
distribution networks be fully able to deliver aid to those who need it
most, fulfilling their mandate effectively.  
  
We are deeply concerned by the consequences on the civilian population
of the ongoing ground operations in Rafah, and the possibility of a
full-scale military offensive that would have further dire consequences
for civilians. We call on the Government of Israel to refrain from such
an offensive.   
  
We welcome the appointment of the new Palestinian Authority cabinet and
remain ready to support the Palestinian Authority as it undertakes the
reforms that are indispensable to enable it to discharge its
responsibilities in the West Bank and, in the aftermath of the conflict,
in Gaza. Actions that weaken the Palestinian Authority must stop,
including the withholding of clearance revenues by the Israeli
Government. Maintaining economic stability in the West Bank is critical
for regional security. We call on Israel to take the necessary measures
to ensure that correspondent banking services between Israeli and
Palestinian banks remain in place, so that vital financial transactions
and critical trade in services continue; to release withheld clearance
revenues to the Palestinian authority, in view of its urgent fiscal
needs; and to remove or relax other measures to avoid further
exacerbating the economic situation in the West Bank.  
  
We reiterate our unwavering commitment to the vision of the two-state
solution where two democratic States, Israel and Palestine, live side by
side in peace within secure and recognized borders, consistent with
international law and relevant UN resolutions, and in this regard stress
the importance of unifying the Gaza strip with the West Bank under the
Palestinian Authority. We note that mutual recognition, to include the
recognition of a Palestinian state, at the appropriate time, would be a
crucial component of that political process.  
  
We affirm our commitment to working together – and with other
international partners – to closely coordinate and institutionalize our
support for civil society peacebuilding efforts, ensuring that they are
part of a larger strategy to build the foundation necessary for a
negotiated and lasting Israeli-Palestinian peace.  
  
All parties must refrain from any unilateral actions that undermine the
prospect of a two-state solution, including Israeli expansion of
settlements and the “legalization” of settlement outposts. We condemn
the rise in extremist settler violence committed against Palestinians,
which undermines security and stability in the West Bank, and threatens
prospects for a lasting peace. We encourage support for the Palestinian
Authority Security Services to make sure the West Bank remains stable
and conducive to the ultimate establishment of a Palestinian state.  
  
We are deeply engaged – along with partners in the region – in
preventing the conflict from escalating further. We reiterate our firm
condemnation of Iran’s attack against Israel of 13-14 April, which
marked an unacceptable escalation, and we reaffirm our commitment
towards Israel security. We call on all parties to lower tensions and
contribute in a constructive way to de-escalation.  
  
We are particularly concerned by the situation along the Blue Line. We
recognize the essential stabilizing role played by the Lebanese Armed
Forces (LAF) and the UN Interim Force in Lebanon (UNIFIL) in mitigating
that risk. We urge all involved actors to exercise restraint to avoid
further escalation, consistent with UNSCR 1701.  
   
**Freedom of Navigation in the Red Sea**  
  
We condemn the ongoing attacks perpetrated by the Houthis against
international and commercial vessels transiting through the Red Sea and
Gulf of Aden. These illegal attacks must end. We call for the immediate
release by the Houthis of the Galaxy Leader and its crew. We reiterate
the right of countries to defend their vessels, in line with UNSCR 2722
and in accordance with international law.  
  
The EU maritime operation “Aspides” and the U.S.-led operation
“Prosperity Guardian” play an essential role to protect crucial shipping
lanes that are fundamental for global trade. Maritime security and
navigational rights and freedoms are critical to ensuring free movement
of essential commodities to destinations and populations all over the
world. This includes delivery of life-saving humanitarian assistance to
more than half the population of Yemen.  
  
The continuing Houthi attacks in the Red Sea risk destabilizing the
region, stopping freedom of navigation and trade flows and endangering
the UN-led roadmap towards peace in Yemen. We call on the Houthis to
comply with their obligations under international humanitarian law and
cease their attacks in the Red Sea, Gulf of Aden and surrounding waters.
We further call on Yemeni parties to continue their positive efforts in
furtherance of the understanding reached in December 2023, under UN
auspices, regarding the peace process.  
   
**Iran**  
  
Iran must cease its destabilizing actions.  
  
We reiterate our determination that it must never develop or acquire a
nuclear weapon. We urge Tehran to cease and reverse nuclear escalations,
and stop the continuing uranium enrichment activities that have no
credible civilian justifications. Iran must engage in serious dialogue
and provide convincing assurances that its nuclear program is
exclusively peaceful, in full cooperation and compliance with the IAEA’s
monitoring and verification mechanism, including the Board of Governors’
resolution of 5 June. We support IAEA’s monitoring and verification role
regarding Iran’s nuclear-related obligation and commitments and express
strong concern about Iran’s current lack of cooperation with the
Agency.  
We call on Iran to stop assisting Russia’s war in Ukraine and not to
transfer ballistic missiles and related technology, as this would
represent a substantive material escalation and a direct threat to
European security. We are prepared to respond in a swift and coordinated
manner, including with new and significant measures.  
  
We demand that Iran cease its malicious activities and destabilizing
actions in the Middle East and we stand ready to adopt further sanctions
or take other measures in response to further destabilizing initiatives.
We continue to call for the immediate release of the MSC Aries, its
remaining crew and cargo.  
  
We reiterate our deep concern over Iran’s human rights violations,
especially against women, girls and minority groups. We call on Iran’s
leadership to end all unjust and arbitrary detentions, including of dual
and foreign citizens, and condemn the unacceptable harassment of its
citizens.  
  
**Fostering partnerships with African countries  **  
  
We are committed to stepping up our support to African countries in
their efforts to achieve sustainable development and local value
creation, strengthen democratic governance, contribute to global
stability and prosperity, and protect the rule-based international
order. In doing so, we remain focused on equitable partnerships rooted
in shared principles, democratic values, local ownership, and concrete
initiatives. We will align our efforts with the African Union Agenda
2063 and African countries’ needs and priorities, including the
integrated African continental plans for improved local and regional
food security, infrastructure, trade and agricultural productivity. We
will also support the operationalization of the African Continental Free
Trade Area (AfCTA) which will be an essential parameter of African
growth in the coming decade.  
  
We will reinforce mutually beneficial and equitable cooperation with
African countries and regional organizations. While assuring African
countries our continued financial support, we will enhance the
coordination and effectiveness of G7 cooperation resources; support
better mobilization and management of local domestic resources; and
promote increased private investment. We endorse African countries’ call
for greater voice in international bodies and welcome the AU’s
participation in the G20 as a permanent member, and the creation of a
third Chair for sub-Saharan Africa at the IMF Executive Board in
November. We reiterate our support for the G20 Compact with Africa, as a
tool to increase private sector investments, promote structural reforms,
and local entrepreneurship support, and enhance cooperation, including
in the energy sector. The G7 Partnership for Global Infrastructure and
Investment (PGII) including initiatives such as the EU Global Gateway
offer a framework, we will use to promote our vision of sustainable,
resilient, and economically viable infrastructure in Africa, underpinned
by transparent project selection, procurement, and finance. In that
respect, we welcome the Mattei Plan for Africa launched by Italy.  
  
Acknowledging that sustainable development and democracy are mutually
reinforcing, we reiterate our commitment to supporting African
governments in advancing democratic governance and human rights, as we
address conditions conducive to terrorism, violent extremism, and
instability. In this respect, we are concerned about the activities of
the Kremlin-backed Wagner Group’s and other emerging Russia-backed
forces, which are having a destabilizing impact. We call for
accountability of all those responsible for human rights violations and
abuses.  
  
Countries should not be forced to choose between fighting against
poverty and protecting the planet or addressing global challenges, nor
between repaying creditors and making further investments in
development. We are committed to evolve the international financial
architecture to make it fit for the challenges of today’s world. We
support the ambition of partnerships such as the G20 Compact with Africa
and the Paris Pact for People and Planet (4P), which work to foster
collaboration between key global stakeholders to deliver additional
financing for development, climate, and nature and fostering private
sector investment. As outlined in the Nairobi-Washington Vision, we call
on the international community to step up sustainable and transparent
financing for developing countries willing to commit to ambitious
reforms and investment plans, while emphasizing the importance of
domestic resource mobilization. This includes working with other
stakeholders to deliver coordinated international financial institution
support packages, utilize tools to facilitate private finance on better
terms and unlock private investments, and activate creditor coordination
and private sector participation when needed so as to ensure
multilateral support is being used in the best interest of developing
countries. We will work with the IMF, the World Bank, and other key
parties to bring this plan forward, with a view to realize it for pilot
countries by the end of 2024.  
   
**Sustainable Development, Food Security and PGII**  
  
We reaffirm our steadfast commitment towards the implementation of the
2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and we will redouble our efforts
to accelerate progress towards the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs),
restated at the 2023 SDG Summit, to ensure nobody is left behind. With
our partners, we will work on concrete and ambitious actions to achieve
long-term sustainable development, strong, environmental social and
governance standards, and shared prosperity worldwide.  
  
Noting that we have already exceeded our joint commitment of USD 14
billion to global food security, announced in Elmau in 2022, we remain
steadfast in addressing the escalating global food security and
nutrition crisis, aggravated by Russia’s war of aggression against
Ukraine.  
  
We are launching the G7 Apulia Food Systems Initiative (AFSI) to
intensify our efforts to overcome structural barriers to food security
and nutrition and to build resilient sustainable and productive
agriculture and food systems, and to ensure that all people can
progressively realize the right to adequate food. This includes
enhancing sustainability and productivity of local, regional, and global
supply chains and addressing discriminatory rules and norms that affect
gender equality. This initiative will leverage multi-stakeholder
partnerships to advance ambitious programs on the ground and harness the
full potential of food systems.  
  
Noting global food supply disruptions due to climate change and that the
Paris Agreement can only be reached by transforming food systems, we
will support synergetic and coherent policies and investments to address
the climate-food systems nexus, particularly in low-income countries. We
will contribute to these efforts globally, with a special attention to
implementing and aligning with the African continental plans by
supporting the following multi-stakeholder programs developed with the
African Union and other global partners: i) the Technical Cooperation
Collaborative to implement the “COP28 UAE Declaration on sustainable
agriculture, resilient food systems, and climate action” and enhance
access to quality technical cooperation for the integration of food
systems and climate plans in low-income and climate vulnerable
countries; ii) the Vision for Adapted Crops and Soils for the
restoration and maintenance of healthy soils and the further development
and climate resilience of traditional and indigenous crops in Africa,
recalling the importance of Africa Fertilizer and Soil Health Summit
2024; iii) a G7 private-public initiative on coffee aimed to further
advance policy, sustained investments, research and innovation,
partnerships, blended finance to boost the resilience, environmental
sustainability, value addition and circularity of the coffee value
chains worldwide and to support smallholders and family farmers in
producing countries, including examining the feasibility of the
establishment of a global private-public fund on coffee.  
  
Given childhood stunting and wasting caused by malnutrition can have
lifelong physical, psychological, and social effects that threaten
sustainable development, we commit to support treatment and prevention
to address this challenge. We will foster multi-stakeholder engagement
and innovation, including with multilaterals, the private sector and
philanthropies, and welcome in particular the 2025 Paris Nutrition for
Growth Summit.  
  
We will also promote innovative solutions to increase the quantity and
quality of public and private funding for food security and food systems
in low-income countries. We will: i) work together to improve the fiscal
space for food security in line with continued efforts to improve the
international financial architecture, including further analysis of the
potential of debt swaps, ii) building on existing cooperation, initiate
a collaborative of G7 public development banks and DFIs to enhance
co-investment and risk-mitigation for sustainable agriculture and food
systems transformation; iii) support the design and development of a
Financing for Shock-Driven Food Crisis Facility to provide
rapid-response financing in anticipation of severe food crises, also
involving private capital from global insurance markets.  
  
Accordingly, we task our Development Ministers to further articulate the
AFSI commitments and actions, ahead of their Meeting in October, in
synergy with Ministers of Finance, Agriculture and Environment noting in
particular the Initiative on Strengthening Seed Certification Capacity
in Africa and the Africampus program to bridge educational gaps for
African farmers and entrepreneurs, under joint development by the
Ministers of Agriculture and international partners.  
  
We also highlight synergies between AFSI, the Global Alliance for Food
Security, and the Global Alliance against Hunger and Poverty under
development within the G20, which the ambitions of we fully support.  
  
We also continue to support coordinated action with and among the UN
Rome Based Agencies and the wider UN system, Multilateral Development
Banks and other relevant organizations, including the African Union.  
  
With a view to addressing global food insecurity and malnutrition, we
also acknowledge the importance of supporting fertilizer value chains
including local fertilizer production in line with WTO rules and through
supporting the use of local sources of energy in consistency with a
1.5°C warming limit and the goals of the Paris Agreement.  
  
We reaffirm our commitment to mobilize up to USD 600 billion through the
PGII by 2027 towards sustainable, inclusive, resilient, and quality
infrastructure and investments with partner countries, with a particular
focus on Africa and on the Indo-Pacific. We reaffirm the Carbis Bay
commitment for our DFIs and multilateral partners to invest at least USD
80 billion into the private sector in Africa, and we recognize the
importance of directing more investment to poorer and more fragile
countries across the continent.  
  
We will enhance this Partnership by: i) raising the profile of the PGII
initiative throughout the G7 platform with the strong coordination and
involvement of all its G7 tracks and establishing a secretariat for
effective implementation and investment coordination with partners; ii)
supporting the launch of the African Virtual Investment Platform, in
collaboration with the African Union and OECD, to enhance information
sharing, transparency, and public policies on investment in Africa; iii)
working together with our DFIs, MDBs, and private sector to improve
green investments in Africa as part of our PGII commitment. In this
respect, we will progressively enhance country-based investment
coordination, including through platforms such as the Alliance for Green
Infrastructure in Africa.  
  
We commit to implement these key pillars, as we are stepping up our
efforts to attract private investments at scale, improving the enabling
environments, maximizing the role of MDBs and DFIs, enhancing
co-financing, advancing high standards for quality infrastructure,
including through certification schemes such as the Blue Dot Network and
the FAST-INFRA Initiative and further developing a pipeline of bankable
projects. We also call on all actors to adhere to international rules,
standards, and principles, including the G20 Principles for Quality
Infrastructure Investments.  
  
We will further promote concrete G7 PGII initiatives, flagship projects,
and complementary initiatives to develop transformative economic
corridors for quality infrastructure and investment, such as the
deepening of our coordination and financing for the Lobito Corridor, the
Luzon Corridor, the Middle Corridor, and the India-Middle East-Europe
Economic Corridor, also building on the EU Global Gateway, the Great
Green Wall Initiative, and the Mattei Plan for Africa launched by
Italy.  
   
**Indo-Pacific**  
  
We reiterate our commitment to a free and open Indo-Pacific, based on
the rule of law, which is inclusive, prosperous, and secure, grounded on
sovereignty, territorial integrity, peaceful resolution of disputes,
fundamental freedoms, and human rights. Peace and stability in the
region are key to promoting global prosperity, and developments there
can directly affect global security. We reaffirm our unwavering support
for ASEAN centrality and unity and our commitment to promoting
cooperation in line with the ASEAN Outlook on the Indo-Pacific. We also
affirm our intention to work to support Pacific Island Countries’
priorities as articulated through the 2050 Strategy for the Blue Pacific
Continent.  
  
We seek constructive and stable relations with China and recognize the
importance of direct and candid engagement to express concerns and
manage differences. We act in our national interest. Given China’s role
in the international community, cooperation is necessary to address
global challenges, and we continue to engage in areas of common
interest. We call on China to step up efforts to promote international
peace and security, and to work with us to tackle the climate,
biodiversity, and pollution crises, combat illicit synthetic drug
trafficking, ensure global macroeconomic stability, support global
health security, and address vulnerable countries’ debt sustainability
and financing needs.  
  
We recognize the importance of China in global trade. We are committed
to advancing free and fair trade, a level playing field, and balanced
economic relations, while updating and strengthening the multilateral
rule-based trading system with the WTO at its core. We are not trying to
harm China or thwart its economic development, indeed a growing China
that plays by international rules and norms would be of global interest.
However, we express our concerns about China’s persistent industrial
targeting and comprehensive non-market policies and practices that are
leading to global spillovers, market distortions and harmful
overcapacity in a growing range of sectors, undermining our workers,
industries, and economic resilience and security. We are not decoupling
or turning inwards. We are de-risking and diversifying supply chains
where necessary and appropriate, and fostering resilience to economic
coercion. We further call on China to refrain from adopting export
control measures, particularly on critical minerals, that could lead to
significant global supply chain disruptions.  
  
With these concerns in mind, together with partners, we will invest in
building our and their respective industrial capacities, promote
diversified and resilient supply chains, and reduce critical
dependencies and vulnerabilities. We will strengthen diplomatic efforts
and international cooperation, including in the WTO, to encourage fair
practices and build resilience to economic coercion. We will continue to
take actions, as necessary and appropriate, to protect our workers and
businesses from unfair practices, to level the playing field and remedy
ongoing harm.  
  
We call on China to uphold its commitment to act responsibly in
cyberspace. We will continue our efforts to disrupt and deter
persistent, malicious cyber activity stemming from China, which
threatens our citizens’ safety and privacy, undermines innovation, and
puts our critical infrastructure at risk. We recognize the necessity of
protecting certain advanced technologies that can be used to threaten
our national security, without unduly limiting trade and investment.  
  
We reaffirm that maintaining peace and stability across the Taiwan
Strait is indispensable to international security and prosperity. We
support Taiwan’s meaningful participation in international
organizations, including in the World Health Assembly and WHO technical
meetings, as a member where statehood is not a prerequisite and as an
observer or guest where it is. There is no change in the basic positions
of the G7 members on Taiwan, including stated one China policies. We
call for a peaceful resolution of cross-Strait issues.  
  
We remain seriously concerned about the situation in the East and South
China Seas and reiterate our strong opposition to any unilateral attempt
to change the status quo by force or coercion. We continue opposing
China’s dangerous use of coast guard and maritime militia in the South
China Sea and its repeated obstruction of countries’ high seas freedom
of navigation. We express serious concern about the increasing use of
dangerous maneuvers and water cannons against Philippine vessels. In
this regard, we reaffirm that there is no legal basis for China’s
expansive maritime claims in the South China Sea, and we oppose China’s
militarization, and coercive and intimidation activities in the South
China Sea. We re-emphasize the universal and unified character of the
United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS) and reaffirm
UNCLOS’s important role in setting out the legal framework that governs
all activities in the oceans and the seas. We reiterate that the award
rendered by the Arbitral Tribunal on 12 July 2016 is a significant
milestone, which is legally binding upon the parties to those
proceedings, and a useful basis for peacefully resolving disputes
between the parties.  
  
We express our deep concern at the People’s Republic of China’s support
to Russia. We call on China to press Russia to stop its military
aggression and immediately, completely and unconditionally withdraw its
troops from Ukraine. We encourage China to support a comprehensive, just
and lasting peace based on territorial integrity and the principles and
purposes of the UN Charter, including through its direct dialogue with
Ukraine. China’s ongoing support for Russia’s defense industrial base is
enabling Russia to maintain its illegal war in Ukraine and has
significant and broad-based security implications. We call on China to
cease the transfer of dual-use materials, including weapons components
and equipment, that are inputs for Russia’s defense sector.  
  
We remain concerned by the human rights situation in China, including in
Tibet and in Xinjiang where forced labor is a major concern to us. We
are also worried by China’s crackdown on Hong Kong’s autonomy,
independent institutions, and civil society and continued erosion of
rights and freedom, including through the recent enactment of
legislation under Article 23 of the Basic Law that has broad and vaguely
defined provisions regarding “sedition”, “state secrets,” and
interactions with foreign entities. We express concerns about the use of
such laws to silence dissent in Hong Kong and overseas, including
politically motivated prosecutions. These developments will make it
harder to live, work and do business in Hong Kong.  
  
We call on China not to conduct or condone activities aimed at
undermining the security and safety of our communities and the integrity
of our democratic institutions, and to act in strict accordance with its
obligations under the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations and the
Vienna Convention on Consular Relations.  
  
We reiterate our call for the complete, verifiable, and irreversible
dismantlement of all North Korea’s weapons of mass destruction and
ballistic missiles. We urge all UN Member States to fully implement all
relevant UN Security Council resolutions (UNSCRs) and reiterate our deep
disappointment with Russia’s veto in March on the UNSCR 1718 Committee
Panel of Experts mandate renewal. We strongly condemn North Korea’s
continued development of its ballistic missile program in defiance of
multiple UNSCRs, including through launches of intercontinental
ballistic missiles (ICBM) and space launch vehicles using ballistic
missile technologies. We condemn in the strongest possible terms the
increasing military cooperation between North Korea and Russia,
including North Korea’s export and Russia’s procurement of North Korean
ballistic missiles in direct violation of relevant UNSCRs, as well as
Russia’s use of these missiles against Ukraine. We are also deeply
concerned about the potential for any transfer of nuclear or ballistic
missiles-related technology to North Korea, in violation of the relevant
UNSCRs. We urge Russia and North Korea to immediately cease all such
activities and abide by relevant UNSCRs. We reiterate our commitment to
counter sanctions evasion and strengthen enforcement of all North Korea
related UNSCRs. We call on North Korea to accept repeated offers of
dialogue, to enhance regional peace and security. We strongly condemn
North Korea’s choice to prioritize its unlawful WMD and ballistic
missile programs over the welfare of the people in North Korea and we
demand that it abandons these programs. We urge North Korea to respect
human rights, facilitate access for international humanitarian
organizations, and resolve the abductions issue immediately.  
  
We reiterate our firm condemnation of the brutal repression of the
people of Myanmar by the Myanmar military regime, and express our
concern with the expanding humanitarian crisis across the country.  
  
We deplore the implementation of the 2010 People’s Military Service Law.
This is causing further internal and regional displacement, risks
exacerbating divides and hampering reconciliation. Accountability for
serious crimes committed in the whole country remains essential. We are
particularly concerned that sectarian tensions could inflame Rakhine
again, hindering the creation of conditions for voluntary, safe,
dignified and sustainable return of Rohingya refugees and all displaced
persons, while propelling regional instability.  
We reiterate our demands for unimpeded humanitarian access to those in
need, that all parties respect human rights and international
humanitarian law, and for the release of those arbitrarily detained. We
reaffirm that an inclusive dialogue with all stakeholders is essential
to restore foundations for a durable democratic process.  
  
We also reiterate the importance of UNSCR 2669 and continue to support
the UN’s further engagement in the crisis and ASEAN’s efforts to achieve
the implementation of the Five-Point Consensus.  
  
We restate our appeal on all States to prevent or to halt the flow of
arms and dual-use material, including jet fuel, to the Myanmar military,
and to contribute to the search for a viable political solution which
respects the democratic aspirations of Myanmar’s people.  
   
**Regional issues**  
  
HAITI  
  
We commit to work together with other members of the international
community for the stabilization of Haiti and to ensure robust and timely
funding and other support for the Kenya-led Multinational Security
Support (MSS) mission, which needs to be deployed as soon as possible,
and to support the Haitian National Police (HNP). We welcome Kenya’s
leadership of the MSS mission. It is imperative that violence by
criminal gangs is stopped. We welcome the establishment of the
Presidential Transitional Council (CPT) as well as the appointment of
interim Prime Minister Garry Conille and look forward to the rapid
establishment of a transitional Government as the outcome of a
transparent and inclusive national process. It is necessary to address
urgently the most immediate needs of the population, protect women and
children, restore security and the rule of law and start shaping the
institutional framework required to lead Haiti to free and democratic
elections by February 2026. We will continue to follow closely
developments in Haiti. To that end, we welcome the efforts of the newly
established G7 Working Group on Haiti to advance the MSS mission, the
country’s stabilization, including through humanitarian assistance and
long-term development, accountability mechanisms, and democratic
governance in Haiti.  
   
LIBYA  
  
We reaffirm our unwavering commitment to Libya’s stability,
independence, territorial integrity and national unity, including in the
face of external interference. We call on all Libyan institutional
stakeholders to overcome the current political stalemate by engaging in
meaningful dialogue in good faith and without preconditions. An
inclusive, Libyan-led, Libyan-owned political process facilitated by the
United Nations remains the only viable pathway towards free and fair
national presidential and parliamentary elections. In this context, we
call on the Secretary General of the United Nations to appoint a new
Special Representative without delay, and affirm our full support to the
United Nations Support Mission in Libya (UNSMIL)’s interim leadership.  
   
SAHEL  
  
We remain concerned for the deterioration of the security situation in
the Sahel, including the spread of terrorism and violent conflict
causing widespread misery and displacement of the civilian population.
This is compounded by the backsliding of the principles of
constitutional rule of law, democracy and good governance and regression
in the regional cooperation frameworks.  
  
The grave human rights violations committed by multiple parties,
including Russian proxies and local security forces in the region are
unacceptable.  
  
The challenge of growing political tension, confrontation, and
instability in the Sahel requires renewed efforts by all relevant actors
and stakeholders in reconfiguring international and regional
responses.  
  
A continued support to the civilian populations in the Sahel is
essential to alleviate their suffering.  
  
We call upon the States of the Sahel to accelerate the pace of the
transition for return to constitutional order, and stand ready to assist
them. We look forward to enhancing cooperation with the African Union
and its current Mauritanian Presidency as well as regional organizations
and the UN in fostering stability, security, good governance and
development in the Sahel, preventing the “spill-over” of insecurity
towards the Gulf of Guinea and North Africa, as well as irregular
migratory flows.  
   
SUDAN  
  
We strongly condemn the ongoing fighting in Sudan, including human
rights violations and abuses as well as international humanitarian law
violations since April 2023. The situation is constantly deteriorating
with increased civilian casualties. We express particular concern for
the risks posed to women and children by both parties to the conflict
and the increase in ethnic-based violence which must cease immediately.
This is further undermining the fragile humanitarian situation and
creating further displacement risks.  
  
All parties must allow and facilitate rapid and unimpeded passage of
humanitarian relief. We reiterate our call on all parties to immediately
cease hostilities throughout the country, to enter into serious, direct
negotiations, to agree and implement an immediate and lasting ceasefire
without pre-conditions. We are deeply concerned by the current
escalation in El-Fasher in North Darfur.  
  
We urge external actors to refrain from fueling the conflict, and we
encourage all Sudanese actors to engage in a national dialogue inclusive
of the composite Sudanese civil society and aimed at re-establishing
civilian and representative institutions to meet the democratic
aspirations of the Sudanese people.  
  
An active African and regional role, as well as the intensified and
coordinated efforts of the international community, remain essential to
ending violence and restoring democracy.  
We welcome the outcomes of the Paris Conference for Sudan and the
neighboring countries, where over EUR 2 billion have been pledged to
support the civilian population in Sudan, and those who sought refuge in
neighboring countries.  
   
VENEZUELA  
  
We are deeply concerned by the ongoing political, economic, and
humanitarian crisis in Venezuela and by the lack of progress on the
implementation of the Barbados Agreement of October 2023, with regard to
the rights of the opposition within the electoral process and the
decision to withdraw the invitation for an EU election observation
mission. We call on Venezuela to fully implement the Barbados Agreement
and to ensure competitive and inclusive elections on 28 July, that
encompass full and credible international electoral observation
missions. We further demand an end to the harassment of opposition
members, and for the release of all political prisoners immediately.  
  
We are following closely developments between Venezuela and Guyana over
the Essequibo region and welcome regional efforts to maintain dialogues
between the parties. We demand that Venezuela refrain from further
destabilizing initiatives. The matter must be resolved peacefully, in
line with international law.  
   
BELARUS  
  
We reiterate our condemnation of the Belarusian regime’s complicity in
Russia’s war against Ukraine. We express our continued concern over the
regime’s continuing repression of independent media, civil society,
opposition, and citizens that peacefully express their views. We also
condemn the ill treatment of political prisoners and ask for their
immediate and unconditional release.  
   
**Sustainable Urban Development  **  
  
We emphasize the transformative power of cities worldwide as drivers for
sustainable development. We will continue our cooperation on sustainable
urban development and task our relevant Ministers to discuss concrete
actions to reduce spatial inequalities, protect the environment and
climate, and promote smart and innovative economies in urban areas.  
   
**Energy, Climate and Environment**  
  
We reiterate our determination to address the triple global crisis of
climate change, pollution, and biodiversity loss. We remain steadfast in
our commitment to the Paris Agreement and keeping a limit of 1.5°C
global temperature rise within reach and note with deep concern the
findings of the first Global Stocktake at the UN Climate Change
Conference (COP28) that there is a significant gap between global
current emissions trajectories and this commitment. Our goal remains
unchanged, to provide a substantial contribution to efforts to reduce
global GHG emissions by around 43 per cent in this critical decade and
by 60 per cent by 2035, relative to the 2019 level. We underline that
this is a collective effort and further actions from all countries,
especially major economies, are required in order to peak global GHG by
2025 at the latest and achieve net-zero by 2050.  
  
We commit to submitting ambitious 1.5°C aligned NDCs, which will be
catalysts for investments, with economy-wide, absolute reduction
targets, covering all GHGs, sectors and categories. Underlining that
this is a collective effort, we call on all countries, especially G20
and other major economies, to do the same. We will advance global and
regional efforts to secure affordable clean energy for all, recognizing
different national pathways.  
  
We welcome the commitments, as set forth in COP28, to triple global
renewable capacity and double the global average annual rate of energy
efficiency improvements by 2030. Energy efficiency is the first fuel and
an essential element of clean energy transition. We also commit to meet
the global goal of deploying 1500 GW of energy storage in the power
sector by 2030, including through existing targets and policies. We will
transition away from fossil fuels in energy systems in a just, orderly,
and equitable manner, accelerating actions in this critical decade, to
achieve net-zero by 2050 in keeping with the best available science. We
will operationalize these commitments through the development and
implementation of domestic plans, policies and actions, including to
inform and be reflected in our NDCs and LTSs, and through intensive
efforts to reduce demand for and use of fossil fuels. We reaffirm our
commitment to eliminate inefficient fossil fuel subsidies by 2025 or
sooner and will report in 2025 on progress made. We call on others to do
the same.  
We reaffirm the important role of high integrity carbon markets and
carbon pricing, to foster cost-efficient reductions in emission levels,
drive innovation and enable a transformation to net-zero and will work
together and with others to accelerate their ambitious use.  
To achieve our climate goals and help all countries reap the benefits of
the clean energy transition, we will work with partners to end support
for new unabated coal power, accelerate investments in renewable and
clean energy sources, and establish secure, diverse, responsible clean
energy supply chains. We reaffirm our commitment to achieve a fully or
predominantly decarbonized power sector by 2035 and to phase out
existing unabated coal power generation in our energy systems during the
first half of 2030s, or in a timeline consistent with keeping a limit of
1.5°C temperature rise within reach, in line with countries’ net-zero
pathways. We reiterate our call for other countries and partners to join
us in ending permitting and construction of new unabated coal-fired
powerplants as soon as possible, and will promote cooperation with
countries, international partners, and relevant organizations, including
the financial sector, to this end, noting the work of those joining the
Powering Past Coal Alliance and the Coal Transition Accelerator, to
facilitate these goals.  
We commit to accelerating the transition toward decarbonization in the
industrial sectors and particularly in the hard-to-abate sectors. We
will promote and facilitate the scale-up of investments in the
industrial sector for innovative technologies, smart clean
electrification, improved energy efficiency, direct use of renewable
heat, sustainable bio energies, sustainable production of energy from
waste, sustainable biogases and biofuels, renewable, clean/zero-emission
and low-carbon hydrogen and its derivatives such as ammonia and direct
use of renewable energy close to demand centers, the use of carbon
management technologies. We also commit to accelerate the reduction of
emissions from transport. We will continue working on this, including
through the G7 Industrial Decarbonization Agenda as well as the Climate
Club and its ambitious work program.  
  
We reaffirm that the transition to a net-zero economy by 2050 at the
latest should be inclusive and leave no one behind, and should be an
opportunity for enhancing social development and economic growth,
maximizing positive benefits for local economies while addressing
negative social or economic impacts that may arise from climate action.
Recognizing that cutting methane emissions from fossil fuel operations
by means of already existing technologies is largely feasible and
cost-effective for oil and gas operations, we will intensify efforts to
tackle methane emissions in line with the global reduction level of at
least 35 percent in methane emissions by 2035. We commit to pursue a
collective effort towards a 75 per cent reduction in global methane
emissions from fossil fuels, including by reducing the methane emissions
intensity of oil and gas operations by 2030, through developing a robust
methodology and use of measure data, and work with non-G7 oil and gas
producing countries particularly in Africa, to deliver deep cuts to
methane emissions.  
  
Reaffirming our commitments in the 2023 Hiroshima Leaders’ Statement, we
note that G7 countries have made significant progress in reducing
dependency on Russian fossil fuels, including through energy savings and
gas demand reduction in a manner consistent with our Paris Commitments
and address the global impact of Russia’s war on energy supplies, gas
prices and inflation, and people’s lives, recognizing the primary need
to accelerate the clean energy transition. We recognize that restricting
Russian energy revenues is an essential part of our support to Ukraine
and are pursuing to end significant dependency on, and to work on
transitioning away from imports of Russian gas as soon as possible. In
this context, we stress the important role that increased deliveries of
LNG can play and acknowledge that investment in the sector can be
appropriate in response to the current crisis and to address potential
gas market shortfalls provoked by the crisis. In the exceptional
circumstance of accelerating the phase-out of our dependency on Russian
energy, publicly supported investments in the gas sector can be
appropriate as a temporary response, subject to clearly defined national
circumstances, if implemented in a manner consistent with our climate
objectives without creating lock-in effects, for example by ensuring
that projects are integrated into national strategies for the
development of low-carbon and renewable hydrogen.  
  
Those G7 countries that opt to use nuclear energy or support its use
recognize its potential as a clean/zero-emissions energy source and
reiterate its potential in accelerating the transition to net-zero and
improving global energy security. They will continue supporting
cooperative efforts to responsibly strengthen nuclear supply chains’
safety, reliability and resilience while also promoting responsible
waste management. We support Japan’s safe, transparent, and
science-based process to responsibly manage the discharge of Advanced
Liquid Processing System treated water and in proactively coordinating
with scientists and partners as well as the IAEA. They will also promote
research and development in innovative technologies for advanced and
small modular reactors, including microreactors, work collectively to
enable greater access to project financing tools, and support sectorial
collaboration. They note the global Declaration to Triple Global Nuclear
Energy Capacity by 2050, launched during COP28. We will further reduce
reliance on civil nuclear and related goods from Russia, including
working to assist countries seeking to diversify their supplies. We
underline that the highest standards of nuclear safety and security are
important to all countries and their respective publics.  
  
Fusion energy technology has the potential to provide a lasting solution
to the global challenges of climate change and energy security. We will
promote international collaborations to accelerate the development and
demonstration of fusion plants to foster private investments and public
engagement. With this aim, we commit to establishing a G7 Working Group
on Fusion Energy. We will also work towards consistent approaches to
fusion regulations. To enhance cooperation in this field, we welcome
Italy and the International Atomic Energy Agency’s decision to host in
Rome the inaugural ministerial meeting of the World Fusion Energy
Group.  
  
We recall our commitment to holistically addressing energy security,
climate crisis and geopolitical risk. In this context, we strongly
encourage international partnerships to make critical minerals and
critical raw materials supply chains more diversified, transparent,
resilient, responsible, circular, resource efficient, and sustainable.
We will support local value creation in critical minerals supply chains
in line with WTO rules. We are working to advance strong international
environmental, social, and governance standards for critical minerals
extraction, processing, and recycling while leveraging their economic
and development opportunities, particularly in low-income countries,
including through implementation of the Five-Point Plan for Critical
Mineral Security, as well as driving work through the International
Energy Agency, the Mineral Security Partnership, and the RISE
Partnership  and the Sustainable Critical Mineral Alliance.  
  
We will work to accelerate investment in clean energy and build out the
secure, responsible, and diverse supply chains necessary to achieve
these goals, together with partners around the world.  
  
We are determined to ensure affordable, reliable, sustainable, clean,
and modern energy in developing countries, particularly in Africa,
recognizing the opportunity that the clean energy transition presents to
spur a new era of productivity, industrial growth, and economic
development, and to advance the priority of clean cooking in the
continent. We stand ready to play a pivotal role in supporting Africa’s
ambitions and efforts to develop adequate clean energy infrastructure
and supply chains. For this reason, we are launching the Energy for
Growth in Africa initiative, alongside Côte d’Ivoire, Ethiopia, Kenya,
Mozambique, Nigeria, Republic of Congo, and South Africa, and we look
forward to others joining. This initiative will drive clean energy
investments across the continent with strong African countries’
ownership, contributing to addressing persistent barriers and gaps, and
advancing sustainable, resilient and inclusive growth and industrial
development. Our efforts will be geared towards ensuring Africa can
fulfil its potential to become a global sustainable energy hub using
relevant platforms, such as the UNDP Center for Climate, Energy and
Environment established by the Italian Presidency.  
  
Furthermore, we strongly support the creation of new sustainable energy
generation capacity in Africa and the Mediterranean to contribute to
global decarbonization goals, in our common fight against climate
change, as well as the development of greater interconnectivity to help
reduce the cost of the energy transition. We encourage and actively
support the acceleration of private investment, including through
public-private partnerships, increasing Africa’s integration with the
global energy market, in particular through the Mediterranean region.  
We continue exploring innovative financing sources for climate and
biodiversity action and clean energy, innovative schemes such as payment
for ecosystem services, green bonds and high-integrity biodiversity
credits with environmental and social safeguards. In particular, we
support the issuance of green bonds in low- and middle-income countries,
particularly on the African continent, to encourage private financial
flows for sustainable investments and the growth of capital markets, in
line with existing initiatives such as the Global Green Bonds
Initiative.  
  
We acknowledge the importance of fiscal space and mobilizing resources
from all sources for increased climate and development action
particularly for low-income and vulnerable countries, and that the
fights against climate change and poverty go hand in hand. We will
implement effective policy frameworks to drive the necessary public and
private investments. In this context, we welcome the Menu of Policy
Options for a Just Transition towards Net Zero and the High-Level
Framework for Public-Private Insurance Programs against Natural Hazards
as a viable measure.  
  
We will work with the MDBs, IFIs and other climate finance providers to
take a coordinated approach to financing climate action, nature-based
solutions, and sustainable energy projects in developing countries,
including by supporting private finance and domestic resource
mobilization. We will effectively prioritize our international support
in the energy sector towards accelerating the clean energy transition.
We call on other major economies and all the relevant entities to do the
same.  
  
We look forward to setting a new collective quantified goal on climate
finance at COP29, and recognize that a new goal is a unique opportunity
to strengthen the international climate finance landscape in this
critical decade to keep 1.5°C within reach. We emphasize that G7
countries intend to be leading contributors to a fit-for-purpose goal,
underlining the importance of including those countries that are capable
of contributing to any international public finance mobilization. As
assessed by the OECD, developed countries exceeded the annual goal of
providing and mobilizing USD 100 billion in climate finance for
developing countries in 2022, an achievement that we warmly welcome.  
  
We note that, despite progress, there is a need to continue to scale up
action and support, including finance for climate adaptation as called
for in the Glasgow Climate Pact. We will continue supporting the most
vulnerable developing countries in translating national adaptation plans
and other national adaptation instruments into investment plans aligned
with their needs and priorities, including through the G7 Adaption
Accelerator Hub.  
We emphasize the importance of whole-of-society approaches, with the
meaningful participation of the people and communities on the frontlines
of the triple crisis, including women, youth, and Indigenous Peoples. We
recognize that they are disproportionately affected by the impacts of
climate change and recognize their critical role as leaders and agents
of change.  
  
Recognizing the role of younger generations to promote climate action
and drive a more sustainable future, we need to empower their voices and
their participation. Building on successful initiatives, such as the
Youth4Climate program, we commit to amplifying youth-led initiatives,
enhancing educational opportunities, and bolstering advocacy efforts.  
We are committed to halting and reversing biodiversity loss by 2030 and
to the swift and full implementation of the Kunming-Montreal Global
Biodiversity Framework (KMGBF) and achieving each of its goals and
targets, including the 30 by 30 targets. For those G7 members that are
parties to the Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD), we will revise
and submit updated National Biodiversity Strategies and Action Plans in
alignment with the KMGBF or communicate national targets reflecting the
KMGBF ahead of the 16th UN Biodiversity Conference. We recall our
previous commitment to increase our national and international funding
for nature by 2025, and to substantially and progressively increase the
level of financial resources from all sources including by providing
support to the Global Environment Facility. We commit to align all
relevant financial and fiscal flows with the KMGBF. We note that Target
19 aims at mobilizing at least USD 200 billion per year by 2030 for
biodiversity from all sources, including USD 20 billion per year by 2025
and USD 30 billion per year by 2030, through international financial
resources. We are all still concerned about incentives, including
subsidies, harmful to biodiversity, and call upon all relevant
organizations to continue collaborating with us, including by assisting
in identifying such incentives, and we are all working to fulfil our
respective applicable commitments, including, *inter alia*, to identify
these incentives by 2025, and redirect or eliminate them, while
scaling-up positive incentives for the conservation and sustainable use
of biodiversity by 2030 at the latest, taking initial steps without
delay.  
  
In this context we are committed to halt and reverse deforestation and
forest and land degradation by 2030 globally. We are committed to
promoting sustainable forest management and sustainable use of woods and
advancing sustainable supply chains that decouple agricultural
production from deforestation and forest and land degradation,
recognizing the importance of demand and supply-side measures. We are
committed to developing innovative financial solutions for conserving,
protecting, and restoring forests, and in that context welcome the
launch of country packages for forests, nature, and climate at COP28. We
will also take steps to prevent, manage, and address the negative
impacts of extreme wildfires.  
  
We reiterate our deep concern about the health of the ocean and seas,
and we are united in the call for transformative action on ocean
governance to tackle the triple planetary crisis of climate change,
biodiversity loss, and pollution. We will work towards a successful
UNOC3 in 2025 in this regard. We commit to pursue the swift
ratification, approval, acceptance, and accession of the agreement on
the conservation and sustainable use of marine biological diversity of
areas beyond national jurisdiction and to contribute to a rapid entry
into force and implementation.  
  
We will accelerate efforts to decouple economic growth from negative
environmental impacts and primary resource use by expanding the
transformation of our economies to be net-zero, circular,
climate-resilient, pollution-free and nature-positive. We are committed
to end plastic pollution with the ambition to reduce additional plastic
pollution to zero by 2040 and, as appropriate, reduce the global
production and consumption of primary plastic polymers in the context of
our actions throughout the full life cycle of plastic. We support
efforts to develop an international legally binding instrument on
plastic pollution of the highest ambition possible by the end of 2024,
based on a comprehensive approach that addresses the full life cycle of
plastic. We also continue our work to reduce air pollution. We call on
the global community to do the same. We will step up our efforts to
increase resource efficiency and circular economy. They can reduce
pressure on primary resources and play a key role in mitigating the
adverse impacts of resource extraction and processing, while, at the
same time, increasing the resilience of our economies to potential
future shocks and fostering innovation and sustainability.  
  
Safe water and healthy soils and ecosystems, including marine and
coastal ecosystems, are vital for preserving life and livelihoods, and
mitigating climate change and environmental degradation’s impact,
including climate-induced displacement, particularly in Africa. We
express concern about Russia’s environmentally unsustainable and unfair
trading practices regarding fish and seafood products. We look forward
to successful outcomes at the upcoming Conference of the Parties to the
Convention on Biological Diversity (CBD COP16) in Colombia and the UN
Conference to Combat Desertification (UNCCD COP16) in Saudi Arabia. With
this aim, the Italian G7 Presidency is setting up a Hub on Sustainable
Use of Land, dedicated to promoting a collaborative and common approach
to sustainable land use initiatives in Africa and the Mediterranean
Basin. Recognizing the importance of water and sanitation for
sustainable development, prosperity and peace, we endorse the
establishment of a G7 Water Coalition to coordinate our action and
strengthen our cooperation on water-related issues, and we welcome the
organization of the One Water Summit in Riyadh at the margins of UNCCD
COP16.  
  
We reaffirm the critical role our DFIs can play in contributing to the
mobilization of finance from all sources for advancing G7 energy,
climate and environment commitments.  
   
**Artificial Intelligence, Science, Technology, and Innovation**  
Artificial Intelligence can play a crucial role in promoting progress
and development in our societies. We will promote safe, secure, and
trustworthy AI. We will pursue an inclusive, human-centered, digital
transformation that underpins economic growth and sustainable
development, maximizes benefits, and manages risks, in line with our
shared democratic values and respect for human rights.  
  
In this regard, we recognize the need for approaches to AI governance
that foster inclusion, to help us harness the potential of AI in a way
that reflects these values and promotes its development while mitigating
risks, including with respect to human rights and avoiding governance
fragmentation. We will work toward these objectives by actively
cooperating with other stakeholders, organizations and initiatives as
relevant, such as the Global Partnership on AI (GPAI) and the OECD. We
will build on the outcomes of the AI Seoul Summit and upcoming
milestones, including this year’s UN Summit of the Future and the AI
Action Summit in 2025.  
  
Recognizing the importance of advancing the Hiroshima AI Process
outcomes, we welcome support from the countries and organizations beyond
the G7, as demonstrated by its Friends Group.  
  
We will step up our efforts to enhance interoperability amongst our AI
governance approaches to promote greater certainty, transparency and
accountability while recognizing that approaches and policy instruments
may vary across G7 members. We will take a risk-based approach in these
efforts as we seek to foster innovation and strong, inclusive, and
sustainable growth. To achieve this goal, we will step up our
coordination around the evolution of our governance and regulatory
frameworks, including by sharing best practices. We will enhance our
regular consultations. We are also committed to deepening coordination
between our respective institutes and offices focused on AI, to work
towards shared understanding of risk management and advance
international standards for AI development and deployment. We welcome
our Industry, Tech, and Digital Ministers’ efforts to advance the
Hiroshima AI Process’ outcomes released last year, including the
development of a reporting framework for monitoring the International
Code of Conduct for Organizations Developing Advanced AI Systems. We
look forward to the pilot of the reporting framework, developed in
cooperation with the OECD, in view of the Industry, Tech, and Digital
Ministers’ Meeting in October. We will work towards developing a brand
that can be used to identify organizations that are voluntarily
participating in and implementing the Code’s forthcoming reporting
framework.  
  
We welcome the G7 Toolkit for Artificial Intelligence in the Public
Sector, that can help governments to deliver better services to our
economies and societies, while protecting human rights and fundamental
freedoms.  
  
We will work to ensure that AI enables increased productivity, quality
jobs, and decent work; empowers workers; fosters inclusiveness and equal
opportunities in the world of work; and enhances active labor market
policies, including by fostering dialogue and transparency with workers
organizations. To achieve these goals, we will launch an action plan on
the use of AI in the world of work. We ask our Labor Ministers to
develop the action plan, envisaging concrete actions to fully leverage
the potential of AI to enable decent work and workers’ rights and full
access to adequate reskilling and upskilling, while addressing potential
challenges and risks to our labor markets. We emphasize the need to
anticipate future skills needs, provide higher education opportunities
and equip workers and employers with the skills and competencies needed
to design, adopt, and work with a human-centric, safe, secure and
trustworthy AI. Against this background, we also emphasize the
importance of innovative education, international talent mobility,
digital competencies, and personalized lifelong learning to meet the
demand for a qualified workforce. We recognize and encourage the work of
the private sector to address skills gaps, including through the Global
Partnership on Artificial Intelligence’s Working Group on the Future of
Work.  
Acknowledging the key role that emerging technologies can play in
economic growth, we commit to enhancing cooperation to bolster the
adoption and development of new technologies, including AI, among micro,
small, and medium enterprises, thereby fostering inclusive economic
growth.  
  
As we look to the future of emerging technologies, we encourage
transparency and adherence to international workers’ rights and labor
standards at each stage of the AI supply chain. We also encourage our
competition authorities to monitor the development of the AI industry,
with a view to addressing potential competition issues, and prevent
adverse effects at an early stage.  
  
We will also work, including with developing countries and emerging
economies, towards closing digital divides, including the gender digital
divide, and achieving digital inclusion. We welcome the UN General
Assembly Resolution on Seizing the Opportunities of Safe, Secure and
Trustworthy AI Systems for Sustainable Development, which advances
international conversations on AI, including to promote equitable access
to the benefits of AI for all. We will leverage the benefits of AI for
SDGs by closing gaps in technologies for development, and by
strengthening research and development ecosystems. To this end, G7
countries seek to promote safe, secure and inclusive practices, tools
and solutions to make the benefits of AI and advanced computing
available to partners to advance their development. In this regard, we
welcome the Italian Presidency’s decision to establish the AI Hub for
Sustainable Development, in collaboration with UNDP. The Hub aims to
enable multistakeholder partnerships to support local AI digital
ecosystems, strengthen capacities to advance AI for sustainable
development, and complement existing initiatives including the AI for
Development Donors Partnership.  
  
We reiterate the importance of operationalizing Data Free Flow with
Trust (DFFT) to enable trustworthy cross-border data flows, and
invigorate the digital economy as a whole, while preserving governments’
ability to address legitimate public interest. We value OECD’s leading
role in advancing DFFT and we welcome its expert community.  
  
Acknowledging the crucial role of resilient and reliable global
semiconductor supply chains, we welcome the establishment of a
Semiconductors G7 Point of Contact Group. This Group will bolster our
coordination in addressing issues impacting the semiconductor industry.
We will also advance our cooperation on secure and resilient undersea
cable connectivity, in particular for strategic routes such as the
Arctic and the Pacific. Our efforts will include better coordination on
technical security requirements and advancing research on the economic
and environmental sustainability of cable connectivity.  
  
Given the potential of quantum technology developments, we will adopt or
implement our respective quantum strategies. We also affirm our
commitment to promoting responsible innovation of biotechnology,
including its convergence with AI.  
  
We support the development of frontier science, emerging technologies
and research infrastructures to solve global challenges, including a
better understanding of the ocean-climate-biodiversity nexus. We also
emphasize the importance of promoting international talent mobility and
circulation in emerging technologies among the G7 and partners, as well
as cooperation with low and middle-income countries. In this regard, we
reiterate our commitment to open science and research security and
integrity.  
  
We support further efforts to promote and reinforce research security
and integrity, together with like-minded partners. We welcome the
Extension of the G7 Virtual Academy to non-G7 like-minded partners to
share best practices and policies on research security and integrity,
and we welcome that Italy will host a G7 conference on these topics this
year.  
  
We recognize the impact of AI on the military domain and the need for a
framework for responsible development and use. We welcome those who have
endorsed the Political Declaration on Responsible Military Use of AI and
Autonomy (REAIM) and the REAIM Call to Action, and we encourage more
states to do so to ensure that military use of AI is responsible,
complies with applicable international law, particularly international
humanitarian law, and enhances international security.  
  
We strongly support the implementation of the International Guidelines
adopted at the UN Committee on the Peaceful Use of Outer Space as urgent
and necessary. We welcome national efforts to develop further solutions
for space debris mitigation and remediation, including further research
and development of orbital debris mitigation and remediation
technologies, and the development of space sustainability standards and
regulations.  
We welcome the establishment of the G7 Venice Justice Group, which will
serve as a coordinative function to address global challenges, including
AI, using our judicial and enforcement expertise. Against this
background, we recognize the impacts of deploying AI within the justice
sector and that the use of AI systems must not interfere with the
decision-making power of judges nor judicial independence.  
   
**Labor and Employment**  
  
We will continue promoting job quality and decent work as well as the
fundamental principles and rights at work, including the right to safe
and healthy working environments, underlining the important role of
social dialogue and collective bargaining in this regard. We commit to
ensure full respect of international labor standards and human rights to
promote fair and non-exploitative working conditions, including in
global value chains, in particular the fundamental conventions adopted
by the ILO. We will promote technical cooperation on these issues and
will intensify our efforts to abolish all forms of forced and compulsory
labor and child labor. We will continue advancing the inclusion of
persons with disabilities and accelerating gender and other forms of
equality in the world of work. We underscore the importance of
continuing investing in human capital and lifelong learning systems that
provide high-quality job opportunities for all, including those in the
green and digital economy. To address the challenges of ageing
societies, we will continue to work for resilient labor markets and to
promote active and healthy ageing, addressing obstacles to labor market
participation, especially of the underrepresented groups, and will
promote solutions to improve working conditions in the care sector to
make it more attractive for job seekers and qualified workers and to
better support our citizens over their life-course.  
   
**Cybersecurity**  
  
The security of our societies increasingly depends on an open,
interoperable, safe, secure, resilient, human rights respecting use of
cyberspace. We rely on the continuing work of the Ise-Shima Cyber Group
in advancing responsible state behavior in cyberspace, through the
application of international law, including IHL, effective
confidence-building measures, targeted capacity-building initiatives,
based on a multistakeholder approach, and integrating cybersecurity into
the development agenda. We reaffirm our support for the Program of
Action to Advance Responsible State’ Behaviour in the Use of ICTs in the
context of international security, as the permanent and action-oriented
mechanism to hold discussions on cybersecurity at the UN from 2025
onwards.  
  
We are resolute in countering strategic threats and in holding malicious
cyber actors to account. Our relevant institutions will intensify their
work on enhancing information exchange and coordination. We are
committed to taking concrete steps to improve our collective resilience
through the newly established G7 Cybersecurity Working Group leveraging
synergies with the Ise-Shima Cyber Group.  
  
We are pursuing a four-fold approach to counter malicious cyber
activities: i) promoting responsible state behavior in cyber space, ii)
improving cybersecurity, including in the private sector; iii)
developing and using tools to deter and respond to malicious (state)
behavior and to cyber criminals, and disrupt the infrastructure they
use, including by enhancing coordination on attribution processes; and
iv) strengthening our partners’ cyber security capacity.  
  
To counter the rise in ransomware attacks by cybercriminals, we continue
to make best use of the International Counter Ransomware Initiative and
will coordinate our efforts to avoid ransom payments. We will also
consider actions to impose costs on malicious actors.  
We recognize rising cyber threats to critical infrastructure, in
particular in the energy sector, which is heavily targeted by
adversarial countries and criminals. We will continue discussions on
good cybersecurity practices in these sectors, including ways to
increase supply chains resilience and security, whilst acknowledging
existing regulatory frameworks. To incentivize tech companies to build
more secure Internet of Things products we will promptly explore avenues
towards establishing mutual recognition of schemes for reliable
cyber-safe products. We strongly encourage manufacturers to
improve the security of products throughout their life cycle
and make them secure-by-design and secure-by-default.  
We are willing to work with all those who share our common objective to
ensure a cyberspace that supports inclusive and democratic societies,
narrows the gender gap in this field, and promotes multistakeholder
partnerships, including with the private sector.  
  
**Migration**  
  
We affirm our collective commitment to addressing migration as a global
phenomenon, tackling the challenges it presents and seizing the
opportunities it brings globally, through an integrated, comprehensive,
balanced approach, in line with international law. We recognize that
developing sustainable, inclusive solutions to effectively manage
migration to the benefit of all, including low- and middle-income
countries facing significant migratory pressures, demands collective
actions carried out in a spirit of commitment and joint responsibility.
We will work to ensure a governance of migration that is increasingly
effective and sustainable within the framework of our international
obligations, relevant treaties and conventions. While doing so, we
reaffirm our commitment to ensuring full respect for human rights and
fundamental freedoms for all, regardless of their migratory status, and,
in this regard, we also recall the right of everyone to seek asylum from
persecution as per the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and to
seek international protection as safeguarded by the Geneva Convention on
Refugees.  
  
Against this background, we will enhance cooperation by promoting a
three-pronged approach, in partnership with countries of origin and
transit, focusing on: (i) the root causes of irregular migration,
through sustainable development initiatives, economic investment, and
stabilization efforts, in partnership with countries of origin and
transit; (ii) efforts to enhance border management and enforcement and
curb transnational organized crime involved in migrant smuggling and
trafficking in persons; (iii) safe and regular pathways for migration.
Our vision draws also on the principles of the Rome Process, the Los
Angeles Declaration on Migration and Protection, as well as the Global
Forum on Migration and Development.  
  
Under the first pillar, we will enhance efforts to address the root
causes of irregular migration and forced displacement – such as
conflict, political instability, poverty, crime, corruption, and human
rights abuses. We also acknowledge that climate change is a risk
multiplier, intersecting with and exacerbating other drivers of
mobility. We aim to foster comprehensive and equitable partnerships
between countries of origin, transit, and destination to pave the way
for long-term structural solutions that contribute to sustainable
development, resilience, and stability. We will strengthen collaboration
and regional efforts to support economic, governance, social, and
environmental conditions, enabling all individuals to live and thrive in
their own countries, safeguarding their safety, rights, and dignity. In
this regard, we acknowledge that countries of origin and countries and
communities hosting large numbers of migrants and refugees may need
international financial assistance to support development, as well as
humanitarian assistance, security, public health, education and
employment. To do so, we will leverage our policies and actions, to
ensure that we address the root causes of irregular migration.  
  
For the second pillar, we will step up our efforts to prevent and
address irregular migration, counter the illegal activities that
facilitate it, and tackle the challenges it poses to individuals and
societies. We affirm the sovereign right of states to control their
borders, as well as their prerogative to govern migration within their
jurisdiction, in conformity with international law. We promote actions
that are in line with international law, including international human
rights law, and the principle of non-refoulement. We will employ a
whole-of-route approach, and work towards strategies aimed at deterring
individuals from embarking on irregular and perilous migration
journeys.  
  
In particular, we will work to strengthen border management and visa
policies and processes, also with a view to limit the activities of
migrant smuggling and trafficking networks. We will also work
collectively to support the safe and dignified return of persons not
eligible to remain, as well as to support sustainable reintegration
efforts in countries of origin. We will leverage our collective
diplomatic efforts in encouraging countries to readmit their nationals,
in line with their international commitments and through due
processes.  
  
In line with the UN Convention against Transnational Organized Crime
(UNTOC) and its Protocols, we will also strengthen our actions to
prevent, counter, and dismantle organized criminal networks that profit
from the smuggling of migrants and trafficking in persons and disrupt
their business models. To this end, we are launching a G7 Coalition to
Prevent and Counter the Smuggling of Migrants. Through this initiative,
we will promote enhanced cooperation on investigative capacities,
engaging relevant authorities in countries of origin, transit, and
destination. We will encourage advancements toward improved and reliable
data exchanges, crucial for evidence-based joint enforcement actions
against smuggling and trafficking networks. We will utilize a “follow
the money” approach to effectively identify, investigate, and disrupt
organized crime, tackling financial aspects, including enhanced
cooperation on asset confiscation. We also recognize the importance of
raising awareness and informing potential migrants on the risks
associated with migrant smuggling and trafficking in persons, to deter
them from embarking on perilous routes. We task our G7 Interior and
Security Ministers, in coordination with other relevant Ministers, to
create a dedicated Action Plan to advance the G7 Coalition, to be
adopted at the upcoming Interior and Security Ministers meeting. In
implementing this Action Plan, we will ensure the Coalition works
through ongoing partnerships and mechanisms, including with UNODC and
other relevant United Nations bodies, the Financial Action Task Force,
INTERPOL, EUROPOL, the EU’s Global Alliance to Counter Migrant
Smuggling, and through G7 frameworks such as the Roma-Lyon Group and the
Venice Justice Group.  
  
For the third pillar, we acknowledge the importance of safe and regular
pathways for migrants and refugees as part of comprehensive,
whole-of-route migration management strategies. Regular pathways can
represent realistic alternatives and have the potential to reduce
irregular migration and the use of smuggling and trafficking networks,
and contribute to preventing the adverse humanitarian consequences of
embarking on perilous routes. In this regard, we reaffirm our commitment
to ensuring safe, orderly, and regular migration, and recognize the
important economic and social benefits that migrants can bring to our
countries as well as to low- and middle-income countries, including
through remittances.  
Regular pathways need to respond to national requirements, adhere to our
legislations, sovereign decisions, and to the principles of fair
recruitment. Driven by a spirit of joint responsibility, we will advance
cooperation on regular pathways, including by supporting partner
countries in improving migration governance while addressing the
challenges and risks associated with irregular migration. In this
context, we acknowledge ongoing regional efforts aimed at securing
talents and professional mobility, as well as programs aimed at
establishing and sustaining effective avenues for resettlement. These
initiatives can provide safe and legal pathways for migrants while also
addressing labor gaps in countries of destination. They should be
designed in consideration of the needs of vulnerable populations and
employ gender- and age-sensitive approaches, to prevent abuses and
exploitation, protect human rights and dignity, and enhance safety and
security worldwide. As such, we will continue to include regular
pathways as part of our comprehensive policy frameworks, including labor
pathways implemented in partnership with developing countries, as
appropriate. We will promote their effective and lawful utilization,
while sustaining and encouraging discussions on these matters in
relevant international and regional fora, towards increasingly shared
and collaborative approaches.  
   
**Global Economy and Finance**  
  
We acknowledge that the global economy has shown greater resilience than
expected, but it remains exposed to risks arising from geopolitical
tensions, renewed volatility in energy prices, and further disruptions
to the smooth functioning of supply chains. Our policy efforts will
continue to focus on promoting innovation, the just green and digital
transitions, and productivity growth, while gradually rebuilding fiscal
buffers, and ensuring price and financial stability. We also reaffirm
our existing G7 exchange rate commitments. We express concerns about the
comprehensive use of non- market policies and practices that create
global spillovers. We encourage work, among all relevant tracks, to
assess the macroeconomic impact of subsidies, and other industrial and
trade policy measures globally, based on comparable information; and to
foster a dialogue with non-G7 countries on issues related to industrial
policies, economic fragmentation, market concentration risks and
overcapacity. To achieve these goals, we will enhance cooperation to
advance a G7 dialogue between relevant ministries, and, as appropriate,
also engage partners beyond the G7, in addition to the IMF, WBG, WTO,
and OECD.  
  
We underline the importance of the work carried out by the Financial
Stability Board (FSB) and the Standard-setting Bodies to identify,
monitor and address vulnerabilities in the financial system. We strongly
support ongoing work to enhance the resilience of the nonbank financial
intermediation sector. We also reaffirm our commitment to implement
effective regulatory and supervisory frameworks for crypto assets, and
welcome initiatives to take forward the G20 Roadmap for Enhancing
Cross-border Payments. We reiterate the importance of stepping up global
efforts to combat money-laundering, terrorist, and proliferation
financing, and support the relevant Financial Action Task Force (FATF)’s
initiatives.  
  
We reiterate our strong political commitment to a more stable and fairer
international tax system, fit for the 21st century. We are committed to
finalizing the work within the OECD/G20 Inclusive Framework, with a view
to open for signature the Multilateral Convention on Pillar One by the
end of June 2024, and we call for further progress on the implementation
of Pillar Two. We welcome progress made on tax transparency and support
the effective implementation of the Crypto Asset Reporting Framework by
the relevant jurisdictions. We remain committed to fostering
international cooperation on tax issues, building on existing
achievements, with the broad participation of developing and developed
countries. We will continue to work constructively with the Brazilian
G20 Presidency to advance international cooperation. We will work to
increase our efforts aimed at progressive and fair taxation of
individuals. We acknowledge the discussions at the UN Ad Hoc Committee
for a Framework Convention on International Tax Cooperation, emphasizing
the importance of consensus-based decisions to support a stable and
predictable international tax system, promote inclusive and effective
international tax cooperation, prioritizing issues such as enhancing
domestic resource mobilization and tax capacity building for developing
countries and emerging markets.  
  
Mounting debt burdens are constraining the ability of low- and
middle-income countries to invest in their futures and achieve the SDGs.
We call on all stakeholders to redouble efforts and improve the ability
to help low- and middle-income countries that fall into debt distress.
This includes finalizing outstanding country cases, making future debt
treatment more transparent and timelier, and improving our toolkits to
put countries tackling reforms on a more sustainable footing before they
fall into crisis. We look forward to the G20 improving the
implementation of the Common Framework for debt treatment beyond the
Debt Service Suspension Initiative (DSSI) in a predictable, timely,
orderly, and coordinated manner, providing more clarity to debtors and
creditors and building on lessons learned. Beyond the Common Framework,
debt vulnerabilities in middle-income countries should be addressed by
enhancing multilateral coordination.  We underline the importance of
debt transparency and information sharing in debt restructurings and
call on all creditors’ participation in data-sharing exercises. We
encourage the Global Sovereign Debt Roundtable (GSDR) to continue its
work, fostering a constructive and inclusive dialogue among all parties.
We welcome the development of Climate Resilient Debt Clauses (CRDCs) and
encourage more creditors to offer CRDCs.  
  
We reiterate our firm commitment to evolve and strengthen MDBs to
address the most pressing development and global challenges, and welcome
further discussions in line with our G20 commitment to achieve better,
bigger, and more effective MDBs. We welcome the considerable progress
that MDBs have already achieved and will continue to support them. We
also welcome that the implementation of the G20 MDBs Capital Adequacy
Framework (CAF) Review has already secured over USD 200 billion of
additional financing for the next ten years and call for further CAF
implementation to unlock additional significant financing while
safeguarding MDBs excellent credit ratings and preferred creditor
status.  
We are committed to delivering innovative instruments at the MDBs such
as hybrid capital and portfolio guarantees, for which the G7 and other
donors have already demonstrated their support. Once approved
domestically, current G7 commitments to these instruments will make it
possible to further boost World Bank lending by around USD 70 billion
over the next ten years. We also commend the AfDB for its successful
first issuance of hybrid capital to market investors. We call on the
MDBs to jointly explore ways to better reflect the value of callable
capital in their capital adequacy methodologies, including through
further discussions with credit rating agencies.  
  
We reaffirm the importance of continuing to provide significant
concessional support to low-income countries. In this regard, we welcome
the successful replenishment of the Asian Development Fund (AsDF14)
support a successful International Development Association (IDA21)
replenishment and commit to work toward a successful replenishment of
the African Development Fund next year (AfDF17). We recognize that
contributions from all stakeholders are needed, and we support efforts
to broaden the donor base.  
We strongly support the IMF’s commitment towards the most vulnerable,
including through our contributions to the Poverty Reduction and Growth
Trust (PRGT). We reiterate the call on all IMF members who are able to
contribute, especially those that have not yet done so, to consider
providing financial support. We look forward to a comprehensive and
timely review of the PRGT, and we are open to discuss all viable
options, including the use of internal resources, to ensure the long
term financial self-sustainability of the PRGT and to help meet the
growing needs of low-income countries. We welcome the interim review of
the IMF’s Resilience and Sustainability Trust (RST) and its focus on
resilience to climate change and pandemics.  
  
We support the Alliance for Green Infrastructure in Africa (AGIA), as an
innovative financial mechanism of the African Development Bank in
partnership with the African Union, Africa50 and other development
partners, aimed at mobilizing blended capital to design and develop a
USD 10 billion bankable portfolio of transformative green infrastructure
projects in Africa to accelerate the energy transition, bridge the
long-standing infrastructure gap and promote climate resilience. As G7,
we will collectively contribute up to USD 150 million in grants,
concessional and commercial capital to AGIA and we expect to help
leverage around up to USD 3 billion of private sector investment in
green infrastructure in Africa.  
We look forward to the seventh edition of the OECD World Forum on
Wellbeing to be hosted by Italy in Rome on 4-6 November 2024, focusing,
*inter alia*, on policy issues, such as climate change and AI, from a
well-being perspective.  
   
**Trade**  
  
Global threats, particularly Russia’s war of aggression against Ukraine,
including its continuous attempts to disrupt maritime trade in the Black
Sea and the persistent Houthi attacks on commercial vessels transiting
the Red Sea and Gulf of Aden, have highlighted the critical need to
address vulnerabilities in global supply chains, ports, and trade
flows.  
To meet these challenges, we launched the G7 Working Group on Transport
Supply Chains, which will enhance the G7’s ability to strengthen the
resilience of transport flows and networks.  
  
We remain united in our commitment to the rules-based, free and fair,
equitable, and transparent multilateral trading system, with the World
Trade Organization (WTO) at its core. Despite the lack of more ambitious
outcomes, we recognize the results of the 13th WTO Ministerial
Conference (MC13). We welcome the decision to maintain the moratorium on
customs duties on electronic transmissions until MC14 and we reiterate
our support for a permanent prohibition. We are committed to working
towards a prompt conclusion of negotiations of the Joint Statement
Initiative on E-Commerce.  
  
We underscore the need to reform the WTO’s monitoring, deliberative, and
negotiating functions and remain committed to conducting discussions
with a view to having a fully and well-functioning dispute settlement
system accessible to all Members by the end of 2024. We call on relevant
countries to refrain from claiming special and differential treatment in
the WTO, commensurate with their economic weight and role in the global
trading system. We also call for an ambitious and comprehensive
agreement on global fisheries subsidies.    
Multilateral cooperation must be underpinned by fair competition,
predictability, and sustainability. In this regard, we reaffirm our
attachment to transparency, to coordination, and to the respect of WTO
rules in our respective policies. We will step up our efforts towards a
global level playing field and reiterate our commitment to keep our
economies open and competitive. We will also tackle non-market policies
and practices, such as harmful subsidies, including by State Owned
Enterprises (SOEs) and forced technology transfers, notably when these
policies and practices are used targeting sectors for dominance. We
commit to effectively use our trade tools, including new ones, as
appropriate, to identify, challenge, and counter these practices, and to
promote stronger international rules and norms, together with
partners.  
  
Acknowledging the important role of trade in addressing global
environmental challenges, we will support WTO deliberations that
contribute to achieve COP28 commitments, including plurilateral
initiatives such as those facilitating and promoting trade in
environmental goods, services and technologies, and fighting plastic
pollution.  
  
We acknowledge that our trade policies, as well as public and private
investments in the industries of the future, both at home and around the
world, will play a major role in achieving common goals of addressing
the climate crisis and accelerating the global clean energy transition.
We also acknowledge that further cooperation is necessary to fill the
investment gap for the clean energy transition to lower the cost of the
energy transition worldwide. In this context, we stress that, in driving
the clean energy economy of the future, we will cooperate openly and
transparently in a coordinated manner, reflecting our joint commitment
not to act at each other’s expense.  
  
We will continue to promote inclusive trade recognizing the unique
challenges that underrepresented groups, including women and indigenous
peoples, face, and their role to ensuring sustainable economic growth.  
   
**Economic Resilience and Economic Security**  
  
Building on the progress we made on our strategic coordination since
Hiroshima, we reinforce our commitment to promote economic resilience
and economic security, in partnership and cooperation within and beyond
the G7. In particular, we are building resilient economies and supply
chains, ensuring our toolkits to respond to harmful practices are fit
for purpose, and safeguarding critical and emerging technology that
could be used to threaten international peace and security.  
  
Recognizing that economic resilience requires de-risking through
diversification and reduction of critical dependencies, including those
resulting from overcapacity, we will implement the *principles on
resilient and reliable supply chains*, namely transparency,
diversification, security, sustainability, trustworthiness and
reliability. We will do so by actively engaging with partners and the
private sector, within and beyond the G7, while preserving economic
dynamism and openness. We encourage the public and private sectors to
make coordinated efforts to strengthen the supply chains resilience of
strategic goods, in terms of both supply and demand. This will include
seeking to collectively identify critical goods, strategic sectors, and
supply chains, for future coordination within the G7 on relevant
criteria that take into account not only economic factors, but also
factors linked to the principles above.  
  
We will champion initiatives to increase participation of a broader
range of low- and middle-income countries in Africa and elsewhere in
global supply chains, while promoting high standards and creating
benefits for local workers and communities everywhere. We will also
reduce our partners’ vulnerability. We reaffirm the need to accelerate
coordinated initiatives on critical minerals such as the Partnership for
Resilient and Inclusive Supply-chain Enhancement (RISE), the Mineral
Security Partnership (MSP) and its MSP Forum.  
We are more committed than ever to work together to address harmful
market distortions and global excess capacity in key sectors resulting
from non-market policies and practices, such as pervasive, opaque and
harmful industrial subsidies, market distortive practices of SOEs and
all forms of forced technology transfers. We acknowledge that such
practices not only undermine the free and fair rules-based international
economic order, but may also exacerbate strategic dependencies and
vulnerabilities, and hinder emerging and developing countries’
sustainable development.  
  
Against this background, we will ensure that our toolkits are fit for
purpose and strengthen our coordination. We will pursue joint monitoring
to assess how non-market policies and practices are producing harmful
overcapacities and other spillover effects. We commit to strengthen the
exchange of information, including with like-minded countries, and
consult on our respective responses, with a view to greater
effectiveness, while avoiding unintended negative effects and
considering the security of supply chains. We will intensify diplomatic
efforts with those contributing to overcapacity to address the issue at
its source, while engaging developing countries and emerging markets to
collaborate towards a more equitable global trade and investment
environment.  
  
We will work together with partners to ensure that attempts or threats
to weaponize economic dependencies will fail and stand ready to take
actions, where necessary, against economic coercion. We will increase
our collective assessment, preparedness, deterrence, and response,
developing new tools, as appropriate, in line with our respective legal
systems and international law. We will address potential, emerging, and
ongoing cases, including through the G7 Coordination Platform on
Economic Coercion, with partners beyond the G7. We will also support, as
appropriate, targeted states, economies, and entities and we task the
Platform to actively monitor areas of concern and key threats.  
We recognize that evolving technologies present opportunities, but also
risks. Recognizing that rapid advances are changing the nature of
dual-use technology, we will promote efforts to ensure that gaps in our
dual-use technology protection ecosystem cannot be exploited. We will
ensure that our tools are sufficiently flexible to keep pace with the
rapid development of new technologies, while avoiding undue restrictions
on international trade and investment. We have a common interest in
preventing a narrow set of technological advances that are assessed to
be core to enhancing the military and intelligence capabilities of
actors who may use these capabilities to undermine international peace
and security, from being fueled by our companies’ capital, expertise and
knowledge.  
Today we are taking the following steps:

-   We commit to safeguarding the global research ecosystem and
    preserving open research collaboration. We will strengthen existing
    multilateral research security and integrity efforts and work to
    prevent covert and forced transfer of intellectual property, data,
    and sensitive technology.
-   We will increase our capacity to monitor and exchange information on
    the use of critical minerals as a potential economic coercion threat
    and will work to prevent risks of supply chain disruptions caused by
    attempts to weaponize economic dependencies, stemming from
    monopolization or lack of diversification of existing suppliers.
-   We will continue to assess the risks posed by exports of rapidly
    advancing dual-use technologies, including quantum technologies, and
    will promote efforts, where necessary and according to our
    respective legal frameworks, to implement export controls to address
    risks to international security. We will also work, as appropriate,
    with our partners to further develop the understanding of how export
    controls can be implemented quickly and in an assured manner to
    protect national and international security.
-   We will work to ensure the effectiveness of our respective foreign
    investment screenings, recognizing that some foreign investments may
    present risks to international peace and security, as well as
    national security, including by providing access to sensitive
    technologies, data, and expertise.
-   We continue to work to make our economic security toolkit fit to
    address the risks that our most sensitive technology could be used
    to threaten international peace and security. In this context, we
    believe that appropriate measures designed to address risks from
    outbound investments could be important to complement existing tools
    of targeted controls on exports and inbound investments. We will
    continue to engage with and provide clarity to the private sector
    regarding these common and urgent goals.
-   We reaffirm the importance of measures that strengthen data free
    flow with trust by addressing new risks to international peace and
    security posed by the interaction of data and advanced technologies,
    such as AI. We recognize our common interest in ensuring the highest
    standards for sensitive data protection and security, including
    genomic data.
-   We will work toward ways to safeguard dual-use biotechnology items
    and equipment, based on evidence of risks associated with
    bio-convergence.

We welcome the OECD Ministerial Council Meeting (MCM) in May, that
facilitated our collaboration on economic resilience and economic
security among like-minded countries beyond the G7.  
   
**Health**  
  
We will continue promoting a One Health approach, bolstering prevention
and health systems, further contributing to achieving Universal Health
Coverage (UHC) and promoting equitable access to quality health services
and essential medical countermeasures (MCMs). We reaffirm our commitment
to accelerating progress towards SDG 3, ensuring healthy lives and
promoting well-being for all at all ages. Furthermore, we recommit to
ending HIV, tuberculosis, and malaria, in particular by supporting the
Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria, as well as
neglected tropical diseases and polio as public health threats by 2030,
and countering climate change effects on infectious diseases, which are
already seen globally, including in recent cholera and dengue
outbreaks.  
  
More broadly, we reaffirm the objectives of the COP28 Declaration on
Climate and Health to transform health systems to be climate-resilient,
equitable, low-carbon, and sustainable.  
In this respect, we recognize the need to strengthen the Global Health
Architecture (GHA), with the World Health Organization (WHO) at its
core. Strengthening the GHA and Pandemic, Preparedness and Response
(PPR) requires public and private financing. We commit to strengthening
coordination between Finance and Health tracks for pandemic PPR and to
continue exploring innovative mechanisms for response financing
including through the work of the G20 Joint Task Force on Finance and
Health. We call for continued support to i) the Pandemic Fund, including
expanding the donor base and calling for at least USD 2 billion in new
pledges and co-financing that is equal or greater than that; ii)
strengthening G7 collaboration to support regional diversification of
development and manufacturing MCMs, including regional vaccines
manufacturing initiatives, as well as last mile delivery as an essential
element to enhance equity; iii) the conclusion of the process and the
prompt operationalization of the pandemic preparedness component of the
IMF’s Resilience and Sustainability Trust (RST), in cooperation with the
World Bank and WHO; and iv)  impact investment initiatives such as the
Impact Investment Initiative for Global Health.  
  
Additionally, we welcome the MCM Surge Financing Initiative that
relevant G7 DFIs, along with the European Investment Bank and the
International Finance Corporation, are developing to build institutional
capacity and ensure immediate financing to procure, produce and deliver
MCMs in low- and middle-income countries during future pandemics. We
welcome the development of new DFIs-led and shared MCM surge financing
facilities in 2024. Relevant DFIs and IFIs intend to sign a Memorandum
of Understanding this year, in coordination with other global and
regional health organizations to make further progress on this
initiative. We look forward to the sustainable replenishments of Gavi,
as well as the WHO and the Global Fund.  
  
We note the importance of strengthening alignment and collaboration
across the global health financing ecosystem in support of country-led
priorities towards Universal Health Coverage (UHC) informed by the
Conclusions of the Future of Global Health Initiatives Process.  
  
We commit to advancing UHC and investing in resilient health systems,
primary healthcare service delivery, and a skilled health workforce –
including through the WHO Academy, the G20 Public Health Workforce
Laboratorium, and the UHC Knowledge Hub. In this context, we commit to
further promote comprehensive sexual and reproductive health and rights
(SRHR) for all, and to advance maternal, newborn, child, and adolescent
health, especially for those in vulnerable circumstances.  
  
We will continue supporting research efforts and leveraging emerging
technologies, including the ethical use of AI, to develop new treatments
and therapies, improve diagnostic tools and technologies, and address
existing and emerging health challenges, while ensuring privacy and
promoting interoperability.  
  
We emphasize the importance of life-long prevention for healthy and
active ageing, by promoting healthy lifestyles and science-based diet
models based, to the extent possible, on locally grown products,
beneficial for both human health and the environment, and tackling
health determinants and non-communicable diseases, particularly mental
health, and cancer.  
  
We remain deeply concerned with antimicrobial resistance (AMR) and other
health challenges exacerbated by the triple planetary crisis of climate
change, biodiversity loss and pollution, including in low and
middle-income countries. Ahead of the UNGA High-Level Meeting on AMR in
September 2024, we will support an ambitious outcome document that
champions the needs of low- and middle-income countries and include
concrete goals and targets that galvanize action alongside the mandate
for an evidence-based panel to continue to drive action on AMR. We will
continue promoting equitable access to essential antibiotics and
integrated actions to counter AMR within a One Health Framework, by
exploring and implementing infection prevention and control measures, as
well as exercising stewardship for prudent and appropriate use of
antimicrobials, including surveillance of their use and consumption. We
will also implement push and pull incentives, support public-private
partnerships and explore innovative instruments to accelerate research
and development on new antimicrobials, their alternatives, and
diagnostics.  
   
**Gender Equality**  
  
We reaffirm our commitment to achieving gender equality and the
empowerment of women and girls in all their diversity, through full,
equal, and meaningful participation in all spheres of society. We
express our strong concern about the rollback of the rights of women,
girls, and LGBTQIA+ people around the world in particular in time of
crisis and we strongly condemn all violations and abuses of their human
rights and fundamental freedoms. We will continue promoting, and
protecting their rights in all spheres of society, and consistently
mainstreaming gender equality in all policy areas. We will work with
global partners to advance gender equality in multilateral fora.  
  
We recommit to preventing and addressing hate and discrimination, and to
eliminating sexual and gender-based violence, including that facilitated
by technology and trafficking in persons. We will provide comprehensive
support and meaningful participation for victims and survivors. We
reiterate our commitments in the Hiroshima Leaders’ Communiqué to
universal access to adequate, affordable, and quality health services
for women, including comprehensive sexual and reproductive health and
rights for all.  
  
We continue to promote the full economic empowerment of all women and
girls, and equal and meaningful participation and leadership in
decision-making processes, including in the STEM sector. We will step up
our efforts to address harmful gender norms, stereotypes, and practices,
and to eliminate structural barriers and the gender pay gap, including
through enhanced collaboration with the private sector and through
supporting the adoption of gender equality certification systems for
enterprises. We recognize the need to ensure affordable and quality
childcare and long-term care services for all, support parenthood
protection, promote work-life balance, and equal sharing of care
responsibilities, to promote women’s equal rights and to take a
whole-of-society approach to address the demographic challenges faced by
ageing societies. Against this background, we reiterate the importance
of recognizing, reducing, and redistributing unpaid care work and
rewarding paid care work adequately, guaranteeing care workers
representation.  
  
We will tackle the unequal gender distribution of care work, which
contributes to gender inequalities.  To this end, we aim by 2035 to
support 200 million more women to join the workforce by investing in
efforts to close the global gap in the availability of childcare,
including through the World Bank Invest in Childcare Initiative.  
  
We will promote applying a gender transformative, multi-sector approach
to our foreign policy, humanitarian aid, and development cooperation,
including on climate resilience, food security, education and migration.
We commit to advance the Women, Peace, and Security Agenda, including
its application to disaster risk reduction and eradicate all forms of
gender-based violence, including conflict-related sexual violence, also
by supporting women peacebuilders in conflict settings. We reiterate our
commitment to collectively increase G7 ODA for gender equality and we
will explore ways to do this at the nexus of climate change and gender,
particularly in Africa.  
  
Recognizing that quality education for all girls is the best predictor
for future levels of equality, we must also promote access to safe,
inclusive, and equitable quality education for all. Noting that 2024 is
the African Union’s Year of Education, we will enhance our partnership
with African countries on girls’ education, including through redoubling
our efforts to meet the G7 Girls Education targets by 2026.  
  
Recognizing the success of the 2X Challenge, we welcome the new
commitment by Development and Multilateral Finance Institutions to
invest at least USD 20 billion over three years in gender lens
investing, encouraging investments at the nexus of gender and climate.
We call upon other public and private actors to join the next 2X
Challenge, advancing measurable changes and financing directed to
women’s empowerment.  
  
We welcome the strengthened Gender Equality Advisory Council (GEAC) and
its recommendations. Highlighting the importance of reliable sex and
gender-disaggregated data collection and monitoring, we also welcome the
updated G7 Dashboard on Gender Gaps.  
   
**Inclusion and Disability**  
  
We are committed to ensuring that all individuals have equal rights to
full and effective participation in social, cultural, educational,
economic, and civil and political life. We intend to enhance all
persons’ talents and skills to make our communities stronger and more
cohesive. We commit to further integrate disability rights across all
political agendas, and in doing so, we welcome the first-ever G7
Inclusion and Disability Ministers meeting. We task our Ministers to
launch the Solfagnano Charter, where they will articulate actions around
universal access and accessibility, independent living, inclusive
employment, service availability, emergency prevention and management,
among others. We will step up our action for the implementation of the
United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities
(UNCRPD). We look forward to the Global Disability Summit to be held in
Berlin in 2025.  
   
**Disarmament and Non-Proliferation**  
  
We remain firmly committed to preventing the proliferation and use of
all weapons of mass destruction and their means of delivery.  
  
We are greatly concerned by Russia’s irresponsible nuclear rhetoric and
actions, as well as its reported increasing use of chemical agents
against Ukrainian forces. We reiterate that any use of chemical,
biological, radiological, or nuclear weapons by Russia would be met with
severe consequences. We remain concerned about China’s opaque and
accelerating expansion of its nuclear arsenal. We will continue working
to address North Korea’s and Iran’s continued advancement of nuclear and
ballistic missile programs.  
  
Recalling the G7 Leaders’ Hiroshima Vision on Nuclear Disarmament, we
reaffirm our commitment to disarmament and non-proliferation efforts,
with the ultimate goal of a world without nuclear weapons with
undiminished security for all, achieved through a realistic, pragmatic,
and responsible approach. The Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear
Weapons (NPT) is the cornerstone of the global nuclear non-proliferation
regime and the foundation for the pursuit of nuclear disarmament and
peaceful uses of nuclear energy. We believe that the overall decline in
global nuclear arsenals achieved since the end of the Cold War must
continue and not be reversed.  
  
We highlight the need to bring the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty
(CTBT) into force. In this regard, we call on Russia to continue to
adhere to the moratorium on nuclear tests and renew the CTBT
ratification. We also call on the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea
(DPRK) not to conduct any further nuclear tests, and to sign and ratify
the CTBT.  
We call for the immediate commencement of long-overdue negotiations
within the Conference on Disarmament of a treaty banning the production
of fissile material for use in nuclear weapons or other nuclear
explosive devices (FMCT) while urging all nuclear weapons States that
have not yet done so to declare and maintain voluntary moratoria on the
production of such material.  
  
We remain steadfast in our support of the Chemical Weapons Convention
(CWC) and the Biological and Toxin Weapons Convention (BTWC), their
universalization and full and effective implementation. We underline the
importance of addressing biological threats worldwide. We will work to
ensure that biological research, development, and innovation are
conducted in a safe, secure, responsible, and sustainable manner.  
  
We reiterate our commitment to the G7-led Global Partnership Against the
Spread of Weapons and Materials of Mass Destruction, a driving force
behind global efforts to prevent, detect and respond to the acquisition
and use of weapons of mass destruction by States and terrorists alike.  
  
We are strengthening effective export controls on materials, technology,
and research that could be used for military purposes in a way that
keeps pace with rapid technological developments and recognizes the
central role of multilateral export control regimes as a key
non-proliferation instrument and safeguard for international peace and
security.  
  
We reiterate our commitment to safe, peaceful, responsible, and
sustainable use of outer space, upholding existing legal frameworks
including the Outer Space Treaty. We remain committed to fostering
international cooperation and transparency, as well as confidence
building measures and norms of responsible behavior with the goal of
improving space security for all States.  
  
We affirm the obligation of all States Parties to fully comply with the
Outer Space Treaty, including not to place in orbit around the Earth any
objects carrying nuclear weapons or any other kinds of weapons of mass
destruction, install such weapons on celestial bodies, or station such
weapons in outer space in any other manner.  
   
**Countering Terrorism, Violent Extremism and Transnational Organized
Crime**  
  
We condemn and counter terrorism and violent extremism in all their
forms. We are determined to protect our societies’ freedom and security,
while upholding the rule of law and respecting human rights. We will
continue to combat the financing of terrorism and terrorism propaganda,
particularly the dissemination of terrorist content online. We will also
promote information sharing, international cooperation, and capacity
building, including in border management, to investigate and prosecute
such crimes.  
  
We reiterate our strong commitment to fighting transnational organized
crime, breaking its business models, and dismantling its networks. Drug
trafficking, smuggling of migrants, trafficking in persons and fraud are
major sources of income for organized crime. We stand ready to work with
other governments to address these transnational challenges, as well as
crimes that affect the environment and against cultural heritage.
Recalling our statement on Synthetic Drug Threats, including the
significant health implications, we support the Global Coalition to
Address Synthetic Drug Threats.  
  
We also continue our unwavering commitment to tackling child sexual
exploitation and abuse in all its forms to keep children safe online and
in our communities around the world. It is crucial that all sectors,
including the tech sector, step up and play their part in prioritizing
child safety and working to combat this horrific crime.  
   
**Safeguarding Democratic Processes**  
  
In a year during which millions worldwide choose their leaders and
representatives, we reaffirm our commitment to safeguard democratic
values and human rights. With the rapid evolution of emerging
technology, we are more concerned than ever about Foreign Information
Manipulation and Interference (FIMI) in our democratic institutions and
processes, and how attempted interference campaigns, malicious cyber
activities, and transnational repression collectively undermine
sovereignty and democratic values.  
  
We pledge to strengthen our coordinated efforts to better prevent,
detect, and respond to FIMI threats through human rights-respecting
practices and by supporting freedom of expression and free, independent,
and pluralistic media. We ask our relevant Ministers to bolster the G7
Rapid Response Mechanism by creating by the end of the year a collective
response framework to counter foreign threats to democracies, including
publically exposing foreign operations of information manipulation.  We
also call on tech companies, in particular social media platforms, to
intensify their efforts to prevent and counter FIMI campaigns and the
potential abuse of AI for this purpose and work towards higher standards
of transparency and accountability on these issues.  
  
We will continue our cooperation with governments and non-governmental
partners to work towards the promotion of fact-based, quality, and
trustworthy information and will support relevant international
initiatives, in particular in the UN and OECD.  
   
**Anti-corruption**  
  
Corruption and related illicit finance drain public resources, fuel
organized crime, and undermine democratic governance and progress across
the SDGs. We endorse the G7 High-Level Principles on Anti-Corruption and
commit to promoting technical assistance and capacity building to
address existing gaps. We reaffirm the fundamental role that the United
Nations Convention Against Corruption (UNCAC) plays in the global fight
against corruption and commit to further enhance the effectiveness of
its Implementation Review Mechanism. We underscore the importance of
denying corrupt actors access to our territories and financial
systems.  
   
**Conclusions**  
  
We appreciate the exchanges with, and the inputs from, the G7 Engagement
Groups. We are furthermore grateful for the valuable contributions from
the Heads of the AfDB, the IMF, the OECD, the UN, and the WB, who joined
us in Apulia.  
  
We look forward to the Paris Olympic and Paralympic Games, and urge all
countries to observe the Olympic Truce individually and collectively, as
prescribed by the United Nations General Assembly Resolution “Building a
peaceful and better world through sports and the Olympic ideal” adopted
on 15 November 2023.

\###
