---
date: '2024-06-26'
modified_time: 2024-06-25 16:06:42-04:00
published_time: 2024-06-26 15:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/06/26/president-biden-announces-key-appointments-to-boards-and-commissions-38/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Announces Key Appointments to Boards and\_Commissions"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Biden announced his intent to appoint the
following individuals to serve in key roles:

-   Jane Harman, to be a Member of the President’s Intelligence Advisory
    Board
-   Arthur J. Gonzalez, to be a Member of the Financial Oversight and
    Management Board for Puerto Rico
-   Betty A. Rosa, to be a Member of the Financial Oversight and
    Management Board for Puerto Rico
-   Luis Ubiñas, to be a Member of the Financial Oversight and
    Management Board for Puerto Rico
-   Mohamed Elsanousi, to be a Commissioner of the United States
    Commission on International Religious Freedom
-   Peter Joseph Marshall Bober, to be a Member of the Board of Visitors
    to the Coast Guard Academy
-   Judith Barnett, to be a Member of the President’s Advisory Committee
    on the Arts
-   Sheldon Pang, to be a Member of the President’s Advisory Committee
    on the Arts

**<u>President’s Intelligence Advisory Board</u>**

The President’s Intelligence Advisory Board is an independent element
within the Executive Office of the President. The President’s
Intelligence Advisory Board exists exclusively to assist the President
by providing the President with an independent source of advice on the
effectiveness with which the Intelligence Community is meeting the
Nation’s intelligence needs and the vigor and insight with which the
community plans for the future. The President is able to appoint up to
16 members of the Board.

**Jane Harman, to be a Member of the President’s Intelligence Advisory
Board**

Jane Harman served nine terms in Congress as the U.S. Representative for
California’s 36th congressional district and was ranking member of the
Intelligence Committee after 9/11. She left the House in 2011 to become
the first woman President and CEO of the Wilson Center, transitioning to
President Emerita in 2021.

Currently, Harman chairs the Commission on the National Defense Strategy
and co-chairs the board of Freedom House. She is also a Trustee of the
Aspen Institute, the Trilateral Commission, a Presidential Scholar at
USC, is a member of the Board of Visitors of the National Intelligence
University, and serves on the advisory boards of the Department of
Homeland Security and NASA. Harman’s book, *Insanity Defense: Why Our
Failure to Confront Hard National Security Problems Makes Us Less Safe,*
was published by St. Martin’s Press in 2021.

**<u>Financial Oversight and Management Board for Puerto Rico</u>**

The Financial Oversight and Management Board for Puerto Rico was created
under the Puerto Rico Oversight, Management and Economic Stability Act
of 2016. The Board consists of seven members appointed by the President
and one ex officio member designated by the Governor of Puerto Rico. The
Board is tasked with working with the people and government of Puerto
Rico to create the necessary foundation for economic growth and to
restore opportunity to the people of Puerto Rico.

**Arthur J. Gonzalez, to be a Member of the Financial Oversight and
Management Board for Puerto Rico**

Judge Arthur J. Gonzalez received a J.D. from Fordham University School
of Law and an LL.M. in taxation from New York University School of Law.
He began his legal career as an attorney in the Office of Chief Counsel
of the Internal Revenue Service. Following his tenure at the IRS, he was
in private practice until his appointment to the U.S. Department of
Justice as an Assistant United States Trustee in the Southern District
of New York. Thereafter, he was appointed the United States Trustee for
Region 2 (New York, Connecticut, and Vermont), serving in that position
until his appointment as a Judge in 1995 for a term of 14 years to the
United States Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York. At
the completion of his first term, he was appointed to a second term and
later became Chief Judge. During his tenure on the bench, he presided
over numerous large complex Chapter 11 cases, including the Enron,
WorldCom, and Chrysler cases.

Upon his retirement from the bench in March 2012, he became a Senior
Fellow at New York University School of Law. During the period following
his retirement, he has also served as an examiner, independent monitor,
arbitrator, and mediator. In August 2016, he was appointed to the
Financial Oversight and Management Board for Puerto Rico and currently
serves as a member of the Board. Prior to beginning his legal career,
Gonzalez was a teacher in the New York City schools for 13 years.

**Betty A. Rosa, to be a Member of the Financial Oversight and
Management Board for Puerto Rico**

The Board of Regents unanimously named Dr. Betty A. Rosa Commissioner of
Education and President of the University of New York in February 2021.
Rosa joined the Board of Regents in September 2008 and served as
Chancellor from March 2016 until her resignation in August 2020, when
she became Interim Commissioner. Over 700 school districts with 2.6
million pupils, 7,000 libraries, 900 museums, and 50 professions with
approximately 900,000 licensees are under the Commissioner’s oversight.

Rosa is a nationally recognized education leader who received an Ed. M.
and Ed. D. in Administration, Planning and Social Policy from Harvard
University. She also holds two other Master of Science in Education
degrees, one in Administration and Supervision and the other in
Bilingual Education from the City College of New York and Lehman
College, respectively, and a B.A. in psychology from the City College of
New York. She has more than 30 years of instructional and administrative
experience with expertise in inclusive education, cooperative teaching
models, student achievement, and policy implementation.

Rosa began her career as a bilingual paraprofessional, teacher, and
reading coordinator in the New York City Department of Education before
becoming an assistant principal and principal in special education. She
created a multilingual and multicultural school for general and special
education students using an integrated linguistic model and was
principal of I.S. 218, a full-service community school in partnership
with the Children’s Aid Society in District 6.

**Luis Ubiñas, to be a Member of the Financial Oversight and Management
Board for Puerto Rico**

Luis Ubiñas has had a career across business, government, and the
non-profit sector. He served as President of the Ford Foundation, a
senior partner at McKinsey & Company, and was appointed to both the
Export-Import Bank and the International Trade Commission during the
Obama-Biden Administration. Over the last several years, he has been an
investor, advisor, and board member.

Ubiñas is currently Chair of the Statue of Liberty-Ellis Island
Foundation. The Foundation recently announced a $100 million project to
reimagine the Ellis Island National Museum of Immigration. Ubiñas serves
on several other multilateral, governmental, and nonprofit boards and
advisory committees, including the Advisory Board of the United Nations
Fund for International Partnerships and the New York Public Library,
where he serves as Chair of the Finance Committee and on the Executive
Committee. He is President Emeritus of the Pan American Development
Fund. In the private sector, Ubiñas is Lead Director at Electronic Arts,
and serves on the boards of ATT, the technology and connectivity
company, and Tanger, the publicly traded REIT. He also invests in and
advises a number of private and pre-IPO companies.

Ubiñas is a graduate of Harvard College, where he was a Truman Scholar,
and Harvard Business School, where he was a Baker Scholar. Ubiñas is a
Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and a life member of
the Council on Foreign Relations. Ubiñas and his wife, Deborah Tolman,
the feminist scholar, have two sons, Max and Ben.

**<u>United States Commission on International Religious Freedom</u>** 

The United States Commission on International Religious
Freedom (USCIRF) is an independent, bipartisan U.S. federal government
commission created by the 1998 International Religious Freedom Act that
monitors the universal right to freedom of religion or belief abroad.
USCIRF uses international standards to monitor religious freedom
violations globally, and makes policy recommendations to the President,
the Secretary of State, and Congress. USCIRF Commissioners are appointed
by the President and Congressional leaders of both political parties. 

**Mohamed Elsanousi, to be a Commissioner of the United States
Commission on International Religious Freedom**

Dr. Mohamed Elsanousi serves as the Executive Director of the Network
for Religious and Traditional Peacemakers. He previously served as
Interfaith and Government Relations Director at the Islamic Society of
North America. Elsanousi was also a member of the Taskforce for the U.S.
Department of State on Religion and Foreign Policy, where he contributed
recommendations to the Secretary of State to enhance engagement between
the U.S. government, civil society, and religious actors. He frequently
participated in the State Department’s speakers’ program, visiting U.S.
embassies worldwide.

Elsanousi was the Principal Coordinator for developing the standards and
protocols for safeguarding the rights of Christian, Jewish, and other
religious minorities in Muslim-majority communities. This resulted in
the adoption of the Marrakech Declaration, the most recognized Islamic
theological document advocating religious freedom.

Elsanousi founded Faiths4Vaccines, a pivotal campaign with prominent
faith actors in the U.S. to support the Biden-Harris Administration’s
goal of advancing equitable vaccine distribution and combating vaccine
hesitancy.

Elsanousi is the founding Executive Committee Member of Shoulder to
Shoulder and co-chair of the Multi-Faith Advisory Council to the United
Nations. He also serves on the boards of directors and trustees for
numerous interfaith organizations, including but not limited to the
Center for Interreligious Dialogue at the Jewish Theological Seminary in
New York City and the Forum for Promoting Peace in Muslim Societies.

Elsanousi holds a bachelor’s degree in Law, a Master’s degree in Law,
and a Doctorate in Law and Society from Indiana University School of
Law. 

**<u>Board of Visitors to the Coast Guard Academy</u>**

The Board of Visitors to the Coast Guard Academy reviews and makes
recommendations on the operation of the Coast Guard Academy and visits
the Academy annually to review its operation. Specifically, the Board
reviews the state of morale and discipline, recruitment and retention,
curriculum, instruction, fiscal affairs, and other matters relating to
the Academy that the Board determines appropriate.

**Peter Joseph Marshall Bober, to be a Member of the Board of Visitors
to the Coast Guard Academy**

Peter Joseph Marshall Bober is the former Mayor of Hollywood, Florida
and served a total of 16 years in public service. He was Hollywood’s
first Hispanic (Cuban) mayor and the youngest in its history. Bober
oversaw a workforce of nearly 1,500 employees and a budget exceeding a
half-billion dollars. He developed fiscal policy and prioritized public
safety, ethics, education, recycling, parks, and city infrastructure.

Since 2009, Bober has served as an appointee to the Federal Fort
Lauderdale Courthouse Committee, which was charged with obtaining
support and a site for a new federal courthouse. He also was appointed
by the Broward County Board of Commissioners to the Tourism Development
Council, where he advocated for the effective expenditure of tourist
development tax revenue. While mayor, he served as Chairman of both the
Broward County Workforce Development Board and the Hollywood, Florida
Community Redevelopment Agency.

Bober is a practicing attorney, with nearly 27 years of legal
experience. In addition to litigating federal employment claims, he also
serves as a certified civil court mediator. He graduated from the
University of Texas at Austin (B.A.) where he received a Non-Resident
Tuition Exemption scholarship. He is also a graduate of the University
of Pennsylvania Law School (J.D.), where he served as Senior Editor of
the University of Pennsylvania Law Review. Bober was named an Honorary
Texan by the Governor of Texas.

**<u>President’s Advisory Committee on the Arts</u>**

Established in 1958 by President Eisenhower, the President’s Advisory
Committee on the Arts (PACA) has played a valuable role in sustaining
the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts, the National
Cultural Center. Members of the Committee are civic and cultural leaders
who are selected by the President of the United States to serve as
representatives in their own communities for the Kennedy Center. The
Center considers PACA appointees to be “Ambassadors for the Arts.”
Acting as a national network for the Center, PACA helps to broaden the
Center’s influence and extend its vision across the country. The
Committee serves as a national forum, giving its members the opportunity
to share with the Kennedy Center their views on the Center’s artistic
programming.

**Judith Barnett, to be a Member of the President’s Advisory Committee
on the Arts**

Judith Barnett is the President of The Barnett Group, founded in 2003 to
assist U.S. global companies in resolving trade barriers and growing
their markets in the Middle East and North Africa. During this time,
Barnett has served on the State Department’s Advisory Committee on
International Economic Policy and Amideast. Before consulting, Barnett
served in three federal government agencies, practiced as a corporate
lawyer and litigator, a law professor, a public affairs specialist,
speechwriter, and a journalist. 

During the Clinton-Gore Administration, Barnett served as the Principal
Deputy Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Trade Development where she
worked with the Assistant Secretary to manage an office of 400 people.
The Office represented all major industry sectors, had 22 industry
advisory committees, and established the Advocacy Center which has
successfully advocated for billions of dollars of tenders for U.S.
companies overseas. Barnett’s second position at Commerce was as the
Deputy Assistant Secretary for Africa and the Near East. In that role,
she was responsible for activities and programs in 68 countries,
creating and implementing regional projects and programs, and advocating
for the selection of U.S. companies in major tenders. She was the senior
Commerce official working with the State Department responsible for
trade and commercial activities associated with the Middle East Peace
Process.

In law practice from 1986 to 1993, Barnett worked in corporate law and
litigation, and served as an adjunct professor of law at Georgetown
University Law Center. Before entering the legal profession, she served
in public affairs and speechwriting at the Federal Trade Commission and
the U.S. Department of Education. Barnett has written articles for
numerous magazines and newspapers and has been a media commentator on
CNN, BBC, and various international stations.

**Sheldon Pang,** **to be a Member of the** **President’s Advisory
Committee on the Arts**

Sheldon Pang is a prominent AAPI business leader in international trade,
finance, and emission reduction. Pang currently serves as Vice Chairman
of Freepoint Commodities LLC and Chairman of Freepoint Solar. For two
decades prior to Freepoint, Pang served as President of the Pacific
Group and Vice Chairman of the Royal Bank of Canada Capital Markets, and
as a Managing Director at AIG International, where he built successful
businesses raising funds for U.S. and Canadian government and agency
debt. Pang started his career as a Research Scientist at the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) in the late 1980s.

During the Obama-Biden Administration, Pang served on the White House
Commission for Presidential Scholars from 2010 to 2016. A lifetime
member of OCA-Asian Pacific American Advocates, Pang is a recipient of
the OCA WHV’s Dynamic Achiever Award. Pang’s other civic engagements
include serving on the Foreign Policy Leadership Committee at the
Brookings Institute, the board for National Committee on US-China
Relations, and the board of USA Water Polo.

Pang received a doctoral degree from the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology (MIT) and a master’s degree from Vanderbilt University. A
beneficiary of scholarships that made his advanced education possible,
Pang has been a dedicated supporter of educational causes, including
serving on the board of Carmel Academy, the Asia Advisory Council of
Brown University, and establishment of scholarship funds at MIT and
Brown University.

\# \# \#
