---
date: '2024-06-13'
modified_time: 2024-06-13 11:58:47-04:00
published_time: 2024-06-13 13:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/06/13/president-biden-announces-key-nominees-76/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Announces Key\_Nominees"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Joe Biden announced his intent to nominate
the following individuals to serve as key leaders in his administration:

-   Christy Goldsmith Romero, Nominee to be Chair and Member of the
    Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
-   Kristin N. Johnson, Nominee to be Assistant Secretary for Financial
    Institutions, Department of the Treasury
-   Caroline A. Crenshaw, Nominee to be a Member of the Securities and
    Exchange Commission
-   Gordon I. Ito, Nominee to be a Member of the Financial Stability
    Oversight Council

**<u>Christy Goldsmith Romero, Nominee to be Chair and Member of the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation</u>**

Christy Goldsmith Romero has more than 20 years of experience as a
career federal attorney and leader in financial regulation, serving
under four Presidents. She has served as a Commissioner at the Commodity
Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) since March 2022, after President
Biden’s nomination and the Senate’s unanimous confirmation. She promotes
financial stability and market resiliency, integrity, and vibrancy,
while overseeing CFTC-registered banks, brokers, exchanges,
clearinghouses, funds, and commodity producers. She sponsors the CFTC’s
Technology Advisory Committee which examines cybersecurity, and emerging
technology (AI, digital assets, and blockchain technology) and has
issued reports on AI and on Decentralized Finance.

Goldsmith Romero previously served for 12 years at the Department of
Treasury, including for a decade as the Special Inspector General for
the Troubled Asset Relief Program (SIGTARP), after President Obama’s
nomination and the Senate’s unanimous confirmation in 2012. There, she
led a nationwide, independent law enforcement and audit watchdog office
that conducted oversight over the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP),
where the U.S. government became a shareholder in more than 700 banks,
among other programs. She worked to strengthen the financial system. She
reported on TARP programs and lessons learned from the financial crisis.
Under her leadership, SIGTARP developed a unique ability to uncover
hidden fraud in banks. SIGTARP investigations resulted in the recovery
of more than $11 billion, civil charges against large financial
institutions, and criminal charges against 465 individuals (with courts
sentencing to prison 75 bankers and nearly 100 bank borrowers). She also
served on a Council of Inspectors General overseeing the Financial
Stability Oversight Council.  

From 2019 to 2021, Goldsmith Romero was also an adjunct professor of law
at Georgetown University Law Center and University of Virginia Law
School, teaching courses in securities regulation, cryptocurrency
regulation, and federal oversight. She also served for six years at the
U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including as counsel to
two SEC Chairs, Mary Schapiro and Christopher Cox, during the financial
crisis, after serving in the Enforcement Division.  She earned her law
degree from Brigham Young University Law School in Utah and an
undergraduate degree from Old Dominion University in her native state of
Virginia. 

**<u>Kristin N. Johnson, Nominee to be Assistant Secretary for Financial
Institutions, Department of the Treasury</u>**

Following President Biden’s nomination and unanimous confirmation by the
U.S. Senate, Kristin N. Johnson currently serves as a Commissioner of
the Commodity Futures Trading Commission.

Johnson is a nationally recognized expert on financial markets risk
management law and policy with specialization in the regulation of
complex financial products including the origination, distribution, and
secondary market trading, clearing, and settlement of securities and
derivatives.  
  
As an academic, her scholarship explored the risk management and
systemic risk implications of cyber threats as well as the concerns
created by emerging innovative technologies including distributed
digital ledger technologies that enable the creation of digital assets
and intermediaries and artificial intelligence technologies. Johnson has
testified on artificial intelligence, blockchain technology, and related
risk management concerns in banking and broader financial markets before
the U.S. House of Representatives Financial Services Committee Task
Force on Financial Technology and the Task Force on Artificial
Intelligence.

Prior to joining the Commission, Johnson held endowed professorships at
Emory University Law School and Tulane University Law School and
visiting professorships at prestigious law schools around the nation.
She is an elected member of the American Law Institute, an American Bar
Foundation Fellow, and Chaired the Securities Regulation Section and the
Executive Committee of the Business Associations and Financial
Institutions and Consumer Financial Services Sections of the Association
of American Law Schools.   
  
Prior to entering the academy, Johnson served as Vice President and
Assistant General Counsel in the Treasury Services Division at JP Morgan
Chase and as a corporate associate at Simpson, Thacher, and Bartlett
LLP’s New York and London offices. Before attending law school, Johnson
served as an analyst at Goldman Sachs. She clerked for Judge Joseph
Greenaway, Jr., Third Circuit Court of Appeals, when he served on the
United States District Court for the District of New Jersey.

Johnson has a B.S. with honors from Georgetown University Edmund Walsh
School of Foreign Service in comparative economics and a J.D. from The
University of Michigan Law School. Johnson served as a senior editor of
the Michigan Law Review. 

**<u>Caroline A. Crenshaw, Nominee to be a Commissioner of the
Securities and Exchange Commission</u>**

Caroline A. Crenshaw was unanimously confirmed by the U.S. Senate, and
sworn into office as Commissioner of the U.S. Securities and Exchange
Commission (SEC) on August 17, 2020.

Crenshaw brings to the SEC a range of securities law and policy
experience and a commitment to public service and the SEC’s mission. As
Commissioner, she has focused relentlessly on strengthening investor
protections in our increasingly complex markets and helping to oversee
the institutions that manage millions of Americans’ savings. Prior to
that, she served as a career SEC staff attorney in the Division of
Examinations and the Division of Investment Management, and as Counsel
to Commissioners Kara Stein and Robert Jackson. In addition, Crenshaw
currently serves as a captain in the U.S. Army Reserve, Judge Advocate
General’s Corps.

Prior to government service, Crenshaw practiced law in the Washington,
D.C., office of Sutherland, Asbill and Brennan LLP. At Sutherland she
represented public companies, broker-dealers, and investment advisers on
complex securities law investigations and enforcement matters.

**<u>Gordon I. Ito, Nominee to be a Member of the Financial Stability
Oversight Council</u>**

Gordon I. Ito currently serves as the Insurance Commissioner for the
State of Hawaii. As Commissioner, he focuses on the risks and increased
insurance costs that climate change poses to the insurance market. He is
a member of several working committees, including the International
Insurance Relations Committee.

Previously, Ito served as the National Association of Insurance
Commissioners’ (NAIC) Secretary-Treasurer in 2018. He was a recipient of
the Robert Dineen award in 2020, an award for Outstanding Service and
Contribution to the State Regulation of Insurance. Gordon was the Chair
of the NAIC’s Western Zone from 2013-2015, Vice Chair of the
International Insurance Relation Committee in 2017 and chaired the
International Regulatory Cooperation Working Group and the Information
Systems Task Force (EX1). Prior to his appointment, Ito served as the
Chief Deputy Insurance Commissioner from 2000 to 2010 and 2019 to 2022
and was the Staff Attorney, and Supervising Attorney of the Insurance
Division between 1993 to 2000.

Ito earned a Bachelor’s degree in Business Administration from the
University of Hawaii and a law degree from the University of Hawaii’s
William S. Richardson School of Law.

\# \# \#
