---
date: '2024-06-18'
modified_time: 2024-06-18 13:44:26-04:00
published_time: 2024-06-18 13:37:23-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/06/18/what-they-are-saying-white-house-hosts-convening-on-preserving-pathways-to-opportunity-for-all-americans/
tags: statements-releases
title: "WHAT THEY ARE SAYING: White\_House Hosts Convening on Preserving Pathways\
  \ to Opportunity for All\_Americans"
---
 
Yesterday, senior officials from the Biden-Harris Administration,
including Steve Benjamin, Senior Advisor to the President and Director
of Public Engagement, and Neera Tanden, White House Domestic Policy
Advisor, welcomed over 70 business executives and civil rights leaders
to the White House for a discussion on *Preserving Pathways to
Opportunity for All Americans*. At the event, business
leaders—representing industries including manufacturing, finance,
energy, retail, tech, and more—joined civil rights leaders and
Congressional staff to share best practices and actions that will create
pathways to opportunity, develop and retain talent, and secure diverse
supply chains in order to grow successful enterprises that create
American jobs. The Administration officials and executives agreed that
leveraging America’s resilient and dedicated workers, and the diversity
that is our country’s strength, will continue to benefit the U.S.
economy. They also discussed that while talent is everywhere,
opportunity is not – and recommitted to strengthening and expanding
opportunity to maintain U.S. leadership in the global economy. 

*See below for what they are saying:*

**Congressman Steven Horsford, Chair of the Congressional Black
Caucus: **

“The CBC commends the Biden-Harris Administration for their unwavering
commitment to creating pathways to opportunities for our
communities, particularly at a time when diversity initiatives in
corporate America and access to business capital for Black and
minority-owned businesses are under attack. That said, there is still
much work to be done and the corporate community plays an important role
in this effort. In December 2023, the CBC issued a corporate
accountability letter urging Fortune 500 corporations to strengthen
their internal DEI practices and commitments to racial equity by
partnering with the CBC and the Biden-Harris Administration on efforts
to expand opportunity and create generational Black wealth in America.
Today’s convening was an important step in affirming this partnership,
and allowed the CBC the opportunity to provide an update on our
corporate accountability report which will be released in the coming
weeks.”

**Ying McGuire, President of National Minority Supplier Development
Council**

“I want to thank the Biden-Harris Administration for convening this
historic cadre of diverse leaders. From civil society groups leading on
business diversity to our nation’s top civil rights voices and corporate
partners, this convening illustrated our shared commitment to creating
pathways of opportunity that reflect the essence of the American dream.
We believe that corporate America’s success and our nation’s global
competitiveness depend on having all hands-on deck and fully engaging
the talents of all individuals—minorities, women, LGBTQ+ people,
veterans, those with disabilities, and other underserved groups—to
unlock our complete economic potential.”

**Marc H. Morial, President and CEO of National Urban League**

“Diverse and inclusive workplaces are more innovative, productive,
resilient, and profitable. Initiatives like today’s Preserving Pathways
to Opportunity for All Americans at the White House are forging a path
to prosperity and economic stability for the nation as a whole. I’m
proud the National Urban League has a role to play and grateful to the
Biden-Harris Administration for convening such a forward-thinking and
committed group of leaders.”

**Samantha Tweedy, CEO, and Alaina Beverly, Executive Vice President, of
the Black Economic Alliance Foundation**

“Today’s meeting of senior business leaders and Administration officials
marked an incredibly important show of commitment to expanding economic
opportunity for all Americans—to the benefit of business and the entire
U.S. economy. These discussions are critical as we work to protect
existing and forge new pathways to Black economic opportunity, building
on the historic investments of this Administration, so that the American
economy is stronger for everyone.”

**Rhett Buttle, President, and Tammy Halevy, Executive Director of the
Public Private Strategies Institute**

“Business leaders and voices from all sectors of the economy came
together today around the same message: our economy thrives when all
Americans have a pathway to opportunity. Right now, we are seeing a
business formation boom that is fueling opportunity and good job
creation in communities across the country thanks to intentional and
inclusive policies including historic investments such as the Investing
in America Agenda.”

  

*\###*
