---
date: '2024-06-13'
modified_time: 2024-06-13 15:18:57-04:00
published_time: 2024-06-13 15:18:54-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/06/13/bilateral-security-agreement-between-the-united-states-of-america-and-ukraine/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Bilateral Security Agreement Between the United\_States of America and\_Ukraine"
---
 
**Preamble**

The United States of America and Ukraine (hereinafter, the “Parties”):

Underscoring their shared commitment to a Europe that is whole, free,
and at peace;

Affirming that the security of Ukraine is integral to the security of
the Euro-Atlantic region;

Recognizing the need to preserve and promote Ukraine’s sovereignty,
democracy, and capacity to deter and respond to current and future
external threats;

Affirming their desire to expand their defense and security cooperation
and their trade and investment ties, and to deepen the overall friendly
relations between them;

Building on the existing security partnership with Ukraine facilitated
under the Strategic Defense Framework between the United States
Department of Defense and the Ministry of Defense of Ukraine, signed
August 31, 2021, and the U.S.-Ukraine Charter on Strategic Partnership,
signed November 10, 2021;

Recalling longstanding security cooperation between the Parties and the
United States’ provision of military and security assistance, supporting
Ukraine with the arms, equipment, and training necessary to defend
itself against Russia’s aggression;

Welcoming Ukraine’s efforts to attain a just and sustainable peace and
emphasizing the Parties’ commitment to seeking a just end to the war,
founded on the principles of the United Nations (UN) Charter and a
respect for the sovereignty, independence, and territorial integrity of
Ukraine within its internationally recognized borders, extending to its
territorial waters, and recognizing Ukraine’s inherent right of
self-defense as enshrined in Article 51 of the UN Charter;

Reaffirming that Ukraine’s future is in the North Atlantic Treaty
Organization (NATO); reiterating their support for the declaration of
Allies at the 2023 Vilnius Summit that Allies will be in a position to
extend an invitation to Ukraine to join the Alliance when Allies agree
and conditions are met emphasizing the importance of its deepening
integration into the Euro-Atlantic community; and underlining the
centrality of reform to support and strengthen Ukraine’s defense,
prosperity, recovery, rule of law, and democracy;

Emphasizing the importance of holding Russia to account for its
aggression against Ukraine, including by supporting Ukraine in seeking
compensation for the damage, loss, and injury resulting from Russia’s
aggression, such as support envisaged by the Statute of the Register of
Damage Caused by the Aggression of the Russian Federation against
Ukraine and holding accountable those responsible for war crimes and
other international crimes committed in or against Ukraine, consistent
with international law;

Highlighting the United States’ ongoing efforts to use sanctions and
export controls to increase the costs to Russia for its aggression
against Ukraine and to work with its partners to explore all possible
avenues by which immobilized Russian sovereign assets could be made use
of to support Ukraine, consistent with domestic and international law;
and

Upholding the shared commitments made under the Joint Declaration of
Support for Ukraine on July 12, 2023 (hereinafter “Joint Declaration of
2023”);

Have agreed to the following:

**Article I:  Principles of Cooperation**

This Agreement is based on the following principles and beliefs shared
by the Parties:

1.  Cooperation between the Parties is based on the principle of full
    respect for the independence and sovereignty of each of the Parties,
    and full respect for obligations of the Parties under international
    law and for the purposes and principles of the UN Charter.

-   Cooperation between the Parties is enhanced by their shared
    commitment to democracy, the rule of law, human rights,
    transparency, and accountability.

<!-- -->

-   Cooperation between the Parties is intended to bolster Euro-Atlantic
    security, stability, and prosperity by enhancing deterrence and
    defense integration and interoperability.

**Article II:  Defense and Security Cooperation**

The Parties’ cooperation in the areas of defense and security is based
on their shared commitment to stability and peace in Europe.

It is the policy of the Parties to work together to help deter and
confront any future aggression against the territorial integrity of
either Party.  The security-related commitments in this Agreement are
intended to support Ukraine’s efforts to win today’s war and deter
future Russian military aggression.  It is the policy of the United
States to assist Ukraine in maintaining a credible defense and
deterrence capability.

Any future aggression or threat of aggression against the sovereignty,
independence, and territorial integrity of either Party would be a
matter of grave concern to the other Party.

In the event of future armed attack or threat of armed attack against
Ukraine, the Parties shall, at the request of either Party and in
accordance with their respective laws, immediately meet, where possible
within 24 hours, at the most senior levels to determine appropriate next
steps and additional defense needs.  The Parties may mutually decide to
develop and implement additional appropriate defense and deterrent
responses, including in the economic, military, and/or political realms.
 Such responses may include the imposition of economic and other costs
on the aggressor state through steps that may include, among other
things, potential sanctions or export controls.  The Parties stand ready
to share available and appropriate information and intelligence
immediately in response to such an event, and to consult with signatory
countries of the Joint Declaration of 2023 on additional, joint
responses.

In order to further strengthen the security of the Parties and stability
in Europe, and to deter threats against them, the Parties agree:

-   To further implementation of existing security agreements and
    arrangements, including those concerning research and development,
    science and technology cooperation, manufacturing of defense
    products, the protection of classified defense information, and
    end-use monitoring.

<!-- -->

-   To meet on a regular basis to further mutual awareness of emerging
    threats, with a view to working towards enhancing the integration of
    defensive systems and deterrent capacities of the Parties across all
    domains, and furthering Ukraine’s interoperability with NATO.

<!-- -->

-   To further bolster their defense and security cooperation as a means
    of building a Ukrainian future force that maintains a credible
    defense and deterrence capability, which may include:

1.  Training and military education programs;

-   Provision of defense articles and services;

<!-- -->

-   Combined military maneuvers and exercises;

<!-- -->

-   Increased defense industrial cooperation consistent with applicable
    agreements and arrangements between the Parties;

<!-- -->

-   Continued joint planning to confront threats to the Parties,
    including guiding principles, respective rules of engagement, and
    command and control, as appropriate;

<!-- -->

-   Cooperation to promote cybersecurity and protection of critical
    infrastructure;

<!-- -->

-   Cooperation to develop Ukraine’s capabilities to counter Russian and
    any other propaganda and disinformation;

h)  Cooperation to promote regional peace and security in the Black Sea;

i)   Cooperation to support unexploded ordnance removal and demining;
and

j)   Other cooperation as may be mutually decided upon by the Parties.

-   To coordinate on a regular basis – and no less than annually – on
    military and defense matters, including defense industrial base
    development.  This coordination shall include a particular focus on
    combined efforts to deter and confront threats of aggression against
    Ukraine.

The Parties agree to advance the appropriate sharing of intelligence and
to promote enhanced cooperation between their intelligence services,
with the scope and procedure of cooperation determined by their
respective entities responsible for intelligence and security.  The
United States intends to assist with capacity building for Ukraine’s
intelligence institutions, including with respect to counterintelligence
capabilities.

Each Party reaffirms its commitments to comply with its obligations
under international law, including the law of armed conflict.

It is the policy of the United States to support providing sustainable
levels of security assistance for Ukraine in support of the objectives
outlined in the Bilateral Security Agreement and associated
implementation arrangements.  To this end, the United States intends to
seek from the United States Congress appropriation of funds to help
sustain a Ukrainian credible defense and deterrent capability, in war
and peace.

**Article III:  Cooperation** **on Economic Recovery and Reform**

Recalling the trade and investment agreements and arrangements in place
between the Parties, the Parties intend to cooperate to:

-   Seek opportunities to provide technical assistance and build
    capacity to support Ukraine’s economic needs stemming from Russia’s
    war of aggression.

<!-- -->

-   Support recovery efforts to strengthen Ukraine’s economic stability
    and resilience, including by supporting Ukraine’s energy security
    and its vision of a modern, cleaner, more decentralized energy
    system that is integrated with Europe.

<!-- -->

-   Strengthen the resilience and security of Ukraine’s civilian nuclear
    energy sector, cognizant of their collaboration under the September
    21, 2023, Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of
    Ukraine and the Government of the United States regarding
    Collaboration on Ukrainian Energy System Resilience.

<!-- -->

-   Identify strategic investment opportunities that mutually benefit
    the Parties, and encourage the development of projects, including
    those that can attract private and public investment in Ukraine,
    that support Ukrainian and American economic development and
    partnership, such as in the areas of defense production and
    infrastructure.

<!-- -->

-   Continue support for implementation of Ukraine’s effective reform
    agenda, including strengthened good governance, anti-corruption,
    respect for human rights, and rule of law necessary to advance
    towards its Euro-Atlantic aspirations.

**Article IV:  Institutional Reforms to Advance Euro–Atlantic
Integration**

The Parties shall cooperate to advance Ukraine’s democratic, economic,
defense, and security institutions in order to advance Ukraine’s
Euro-Atlantic integration and modernization according to European Union
(EU) and NATO democratic principles and standards, and to prioritize
NATO’s shared values and the interoperability of Ukraine’s security and
defense forces.

The Parties shall cooperate to advance Ukraine’s implementation of
reforms to its democratic, economic, defense, and security institutions
in line with its EU accession goals, NATO adapted Annual National
Program priorities, and obligations and commitments under agreements and
arrangements with the International Monetary Fund. 

Accordingly, among other reforms, Ukraine shall undertake efforts
towards:

-   Strengthening Ukrainian justice sector reform to promote the
    independence and integrity of the judiciary;

<!-- -->

-   Implementing robust anti-corruption measures, including
    strengthening all independent state anti-corruption institutions
    such as the Specialized Anti-Corruption Prosecutor and the National
    Anti-Corruption Bureau of Ukraine;

<!-- -->

-   Implementing reforms in law enforcement, security, tax, and customs
    institutions to resolve jurisdictional issues, and to improve
    transparency and accountability and strengthen the rule of law;

<!-- -->

-   Bolstering corporate governance to meet Organization for Economic
    Cooperation and Development principles in state-owned and defense
    enterprises to encourage foreign investor confidence and investment;

<!-- -->

-   Adopting NATO standards of transparency, accountability, and
    competition in the management and oversight of security and
    procurement policy and practice;

<!-- -->

-   Transforming defense planning and resource management systems to
    increase transparency, improve efficiency, and increase
    interoperability with NATO;

<!-- -->

-   Reorganizing command and control structures in accordance with NATO
    principles to increase interoperability and ensure effective
    civilian oversight; and

<!-- -->

-   Modernizing defense human resource management and military education
    systems to align with NATO principles and standards.

The Parties reaffirm their support for Ukraine’s right to choose its own
security arrangements.  The United States reaffirms that Ukraine’s
future is in NATO.

**Article V:  Just Peace**

The Parties recognize that Ukraine will not be secure until its
sovereignty and territorial integrity are fully restored through a just
peace that respects Ukraine’s rights under international law, including
the UN Charter.  The Parties therefore shall cooperate to advance a just
and lasting peace that has broad global support.  The United States
welcomes Ukraine’s ongoing efforts, including through Ukraine’s Peace
Formula, to engage the international community in establishing the
principles of a just and sustainable peace.

**Article VI:  Annexes and Implementing Arrangements**

The Parties may enter into further agreements or arrangements as
necessary and appropriate to implement this Agreement.

The Parties intend that cooperation in the specific areas described in
Articles II and III, including support for Ukraine’s Armed Forces and
other security and defense forces, be implemented in accordance with the
provisions of the attached annex and with any separate implementing
arrangements entered into by the Parties.

**Article VII:  Disputes and Implementation**

1.  Any divergence in views or disputes regarding the interpretation or
    application of this Agreement shall be resolved only through
    consultation between the Parties and shall not be referred to any
    national or international court, tribunal, or other similar body, or
    any third party for settlement.

-   All cooperation and activities under this Agreement shall be carried
    out in accordance with the respective domestic laws of the Parties
    and shall be subject to the availability of funds.

<!-- -->

-   The Parties intend for this Agreement to reinforce other agreements
    and arrangements that exist between the Parties.  The Parties shall
    implement this Agreement in a manner consistent with those other
    agreements, and taking into account those other arrangements.

**Article VIII:  Amendment**

This Agreement may be amended and supplemented through mutual written
agreement of the Parties.

**Article IX:  Entry Into Force**

This Agreement shall enter into force upon signature by both Parties.
 This Agreement shall remain in force 10 years from entry into force and
may be extended by mutual written agreement of the Parties.

**Article X:  Registration With the United Nations**

The Parties intend to register this Agreement with the United Nations in
accordance with Article 102 of the UN Charter within 60 days of its
entry into force.

**Article** **XI:** ** Termination**

Either Party may terminate this Agreement by providing a written
notification through diplomatic channels to the other Party of its
intent to terminate this Agreement.  The termination shall take effect 6
months after the date of such notification.

In this regard, although a Party may terminate this Agreement, any
implementing agreement or arrangement entered into between the Parties
consistent with the terms of this Agreement shall continue to remain in
effect under its own terms, unless otherwise specified in the terms of
the specific implementing agreement or arrangement.

The Parties recognize this Agreement as supporting a bridge to Ukraine’s
eventual membership in the NATO Alliance.

In the event that Ukraine becomes a member of NATO, the Parties shall
meet and confer on the future status of this Agreement.

Done at Puglia, Italy, this 13th day of June, 2024, in two originals in
the English language, being an authentic version of the Agreement.  A
Ukrainian language version of the Agreement shall be prepared, which
shall be considered equally authentic upon an exchange of diplomatic
notes between the Parties confirming that the Ukrainian version of the
Agreement attached to the notes conforms with the signed English version
of the Agreement.  Thereafter, in the event of divergence or ambiguity
between the two language texts, the English version shall prevail.

FOR THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA:                        FOR UKRAINE:

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_              
                       
\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.                                 
                        VOLODYMYR ZELENSKYY

President of the United States of America                       
President of Ukraine                                

**Annex to the Bilateral Security Agreement**

**Between the United States of America and Ukraine**

Pursuant to Article VI of the Bilateral Security Agreement Between the
United States of America and Ukraine (Agreement) and in implementation
of the provisions of Articles II and III of the Agreement,

The United States of America (United States) and Ukraine (together,
Participants or both sides) have reached the following understandings:

**Implementation of Article II:  Defense and Security Cooperation**

The United States reaffirms its unwavering support for Ukraine’s defense
of its sovereignty and territorial integrity within its internationally
recognized borders.  To ensure Ukraine’s security, both sides recognize
Ukraine needs a significant military force, robust capabilities, and
sustained investments in its defense industrial base that are consistent
with North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) standards.  The United
States intends to provide long-term materiel, training and advising,
sustainment, intelligence, security, defense industrial, institutional,
and other support to develop Ukrainian security and defense forces that
are capable of defending a sovereign, independent, democratic Ukraine
and deterring future aggression.

Ukraine deeply appreciates the significant assistance the United States
has provided since the beginning of Russia’s full-scale invasion.  In
addition to United States bilateral support, both sides acknowledge the
critical and substantial contributions of the security assistance that
other partner nations intend to provide Ukraine and the need for
coordination among Ukraine’s partners to synchronize support and
appropriately share the responsibility for meeting shared goals.  Both
sides also recognize the need for Ukraine’s security and defense forces
to be sustainable over time, and expect Ukraine to gradually assume
responsibility for an increasing share of its defense needs.

To implement this annex, the Participants intend to consult on security
and defense forces requirements through channels such as the
U.S.-Ukraine Bilateral Defense Consultations process to ensure Ukraine
adopts a Western-based military standard, interoperable with NATO. 
Security assistance requests are expected to be evaluated for
sustainability, alignment with a jointly understood future force
structure, effectiveness in meeting defense objectives, and
complementarity with assistance from other allies and partners.

**A.  <u>Ukraine’s Future Force Capabilities</u>**

The United States commits to support Ukraine in developing a modern,
NATO-interoperable force that can credibly deter and, if necessary,
defend against future aggression.  Ukraine’s future force is expected to
rely on both modern and legacy equipment.  To support the sustainability
of Ukraine’s security and defense forces, both sides intend to
standardize equipment across its formations.

The United States intends to support Ukraine’s military strength and the
development and transformation of its military capabilities across the
full spectrum of combat functions through the supply of weapons,
equipment, training, and other assistance, in coordination with
partners, including in the following domains:

-   *<u>Air and Missile Defense</u>*:  Building upon the range of air
    defense capabilities that the United States has provided to date,
    including the Patriot system, the United States commits to support
    Ukraine’s development of a layered, integrated air and missile
    defense system.  Both sides intend to pursue further steps to
    transition to a modern air defense architecture for Ukraine over
    time, with associated radars, interceptors, and support equipment
    across the spectrum of tactical- to strategic-level capabilities.

<!-- -->

-   *<u>Fires</u>*:  The United States commits to support Ukraine’s
    development of a joint fires capability, to include the acquisition
    of ground-based systems, munitions, and targeting capabilities to
    employ indirect and long-range fires, as well as unmanned aerial
    systems.  Both sides intend to pursue the procurement of stockpiles
    of ammunition for Ukraine’s use, in coordination with allies and
    partners, while developing Ukraine’s domestic ammunition production
    capacity.

<!-- -->

-   *<u>Ground Maneuver</u>*:  The United States commits to support
    Ukraine’s development of movement and maneuver doctrine and
    capabilities, to include sustainment of legacy armored, mechanized,
    and motorized capabilities, and to work with allies and partners to
    support the acquisition of modern platforms to support Ukraine’s
    maneuver force requirements.

<!-- -->

-   *<u>Air</u>*:  The United States commits to coordinate with Ukraine,
    and work principally through an allied consortium, on the
    modernization of Ukraine’s Air Force, including working toward
    procurement of squadrons of modern fighter aircraft, sustainment,
    armament, and associated training to support fourth generation
    fighter capability (including, but not limited to, F-16 multi-role
    aircraft), as well as other air domain capabilities such as
    transport and intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance
    platforms (including unmanned).

<!-- -->

-   *<u>Maritime</u>*:  The United States, in coordination with allies
    and partners, commits to support the improvement of Ukraine’s
    capacity to defend its territorial waters and promote Black Sea
    regional security through capabilities that could include coastal
    defense systems; maritime domain awareness; unmanned systems; and
    surface vessels, including patrol and riverine craft, naval
    firepower, maritime mine countermeasures, and other weapons that
    will help strengthen maritime security in the Black and Azov Seas
    and help Ukraine exercise sovereignty over its territorial seas and
    sovereign rights and jurisdiction in its exclusive economic zone.

<!-- -->

-   *<u>Cybersecurity and Critical Infrastructure Protection</u>*:  The
    United States commits to support Ukraine’s capacity to increase the
    cybersecurity and protection of its critical infrastructure and
    government information resources, including by strengthening its
    cyber defenses against malicious cyber activities by Russia and
    other hostile state and non-state actors.  Both sides commit to work
    together to improve Ukraine’s ability to detect and remediate
    intrusions by malicious actors, including through technical
    assistance from the United States.  The United States intends to
    assist Ukraine to improve the cyber resilience of its critical
    infrastructure, especially energy facilities, against aerial
    strikes, and to support the quick restoration of destroyed
    infrastructure, including by providing material and technical
    assistance.

<!-- -->

-   *<u>Command and Control</u>*:  The United States commits to support
    Ukraine’s development of command and control capability through both
    materiel and non-materiel support.  Both sides recognize that
    incorporating NATO-interoperable communications systems, doctrine,
    and organization are needed to improve sensing, early warning, and
    timely resource allocation for Ukraine’s combat operations.

<!-- -->

-   *<u>Sustainment</u>*:  The United States, in coordination with
    allies and partners, commits to support Ukraine’s capacity to
    sustain and independently support its forces over the long term,
    maximizing its operational freedom of action.  Such efforts could
    include support to logistics, personnel services, and health service
    support, in line with Western force generation models.

The United States and Ukraine intend to collaborate on force development
through a range of multi-national capability coalitions, including
through air force and artillery coalitions co-led by the United States.

The United States additionally commits to consideration of support for
Ukraine’s civiliandefense forces, which are critical components of
Ukraine’s overall defense.  The United States and Ukraine commit to
deepening partnerships between national guard and border security
services.

In furtherance of Article II of the Agreement, in the event of future
armed attack or the threat of armed attack against Ukraine, the United
States, at the request of the Government of Ukraine and in consultation
with allies and partners, intends to coordinate on the potential need to
rapidly increase the scope or scale of United States security assistance
to Ukraine, including potentially the provision of additional weapon
systems and equipment, and other materiel, as well as the exchange of
information with Ukraine.

**B.  <u>Training and Exercises</u>**

The United States intends to pursue a long-term training program for the
Ukrainian Armed Forces and other security and defense forces throughout
the term of this annex.  The United States plans to expand its capacity
to provide both individual and collective training, and to coordinate
with allies and partners to ensure complementarity of training
programs.  The United States intends to incorporate Ukrainian trainers
and subject matter experts into the program, promote
institutionalization of Western training practices and doctrine, and
create the conditions for the transition of training efforts to
Ukrainian territory and Ukrainian service members.

Training is intended to be supported by an extensive exercise program to
build interoperability.  The United States plans to invite Ukrainian
security and defense forces to join United States exercises and to
support Ukrainian participation in multilateral exercises when
appropriate.

The United States intends to consider opportunities for training
Ukrainian service members in the United States as appropriate.

If and when security conditions allow, both sides plan to consult on
possible training and exercise programs in Ukraine.

In line with this training, Ukraine commits to incorporating standard
NATO doctrine and combined arms concepts at all echelons of its security
and defense forces, and to ensuring the proper employment and
sustainment of new capabilities.

The United States supports enabling increased Ukrainian attendance at
Department of Defense (DOD) institutions of professional military
education, including through the International Military Education and
Training program.

**C.  <u>Defense Industrial Base Development Cooperation</u>**

Both sides recognize that the recovery of Ukraine’s economy and industry
would support Ukraine’s ability to shoulder more of the material and
financial burdens of its defense over time.  The United States commits
to work with allies and partners to support Ukraine’s economic recovery
and bolster Ukraine’s defense industrial base, including through
cooperative defense research and development.  Ukraine commits to
developing and reforming its defense industry to support and sustain the
needs of its security and defense forces.

Both sides intend to engage with international partners and their
respective defense industries to support increased Ukrainian production
over the long term of necessary armaments, ammunition, and equipment,
supporting Ukraine’s development of a level of readiness for and
deterrence against future aggression.  The United States intends to work
with Ukraine to enable Ukrainian entities to repair key systems and
produce parts to facilitate efficient repair through the provision of
raw materials and technical expertise, financing, and licensing for
technology transfer.  The United States intends to support Ukraine in
solving challenges, including in the supply of critical materials and
components needed for weapons, military equipment, and munitions
manufacturing.

Both sides commit to implementing the Statement of Intent on
Co-production and Technical Data Exchange, signed December 6, 2023, at
the United States-Ukraine Defense Industrial Base Conference in
Washington, D.C., working to increase cooperation between the United
States and Ukraine and facilitating the movement of investment deals
more quickly through systems.

Ukraine commits to strengthen foreign direct investment controls based
on national security considerations.

The Participants intend to seek private industry partnerships in key
priority areas of defense production, including but not limited to the
manufacturing of air defense systems and supporting munitions, artillery
ammunition of multiple calibers, supporting barrels and other
components, and manufacturing of unmanned aerial vehicles. 

The United States intends to facilitate United States-Ukraine defense
industrial cooperation, including codevelopment, coproduction, and
supply of Ukraine’s defense industrial base requirements.

Ukraine commits to continuing its reform of state defense conglomerate
JSC Ukrainian Defense Industry to align with international business best
practices and Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development
standards.

Both sides commit to implement their Research, Development, Testing, and
Evaluation Agreement. <s></s>

**D.  <u>End Use Monitoring/Accountability</u>**

The United States reaffirms its commitment to work with allies and
partners to facilitate international coordination to mitigate the risk
of diversion of advanced conventional weapons through the U.S. Plan to
Counter Illicit Diversion of Certain Advanced Conventional Weapons in
Eastern Europe.  This includes supporting Ukrainian, allied, and partner
efforts to conduct end-use monitoring.  To implement Article II of the
Agreement, Ukraine further reaffirms its commitment to ensuring the
security of United States-provided defense articles and technology in
accordance with DOD’s Golden Sentry enhanced end-use monitoring (EEUM)
requirements.

This includes:

-   Providing timely and comprehensive expenditure and loss reports for
    all EEUM items on at least a quarterly basis;

<!-- -->

-   Continuing to afford United States DOD personnel maximum access and
    transparency in support of EEUM verification activities, including
    site visits to Ukrainian weapons depots, as appropriate, and full
    visibility into Ukrainian logistics management platforms; and

<!-- -->

-   Fully implementing the concept of operations for the use of handheld
    scanning devices to self-report EEUM inventories at locations where
    United States personnel are unable to travel.

As security conditions allow, Ukraine further commits to:

-   Conducting a comprehensive inventory of all remaining EEUM items in
    Ukraine’s possession;

<!-- -->

-   Providing DOD with access to military installations across Ukraine
    at which EEUM items are stored, to allow for the resumption of all
    in-person verification activities; and

<!-- -->

-   Supporting future EEUM requirements the United States may identify
    to maintain reasonable assurances of the security of advanced
    conventional weapons in a postwar environment.

The Participants intend to continue the exchange of information on
threats related to illicit arms proliferation.

**E.  <u>Unexploded Ordnance Removal and Demining</u>**

The United States intends to coordinate with international partners to
support unexploded ordnance removal and demining assistance in affected
regions in Ukraine, encompassing both humanitarian and combat demining
efforts.  This support may include assisting civilian populations
affected by landmines, explosive remnants of war, and the hazardous
effects of unexploded ordnance, through developing Ukraine’s domestic
capacity for humanitarian demining, land-based and underwater explosive
ordnance disposal, and physical security and stockpile management of
conventional munitions.

Both sides recognize the importance of a coordinated and robust demining
program to Ukraine’s long-term recovery potential, due to the
contamination of Ukraine’s territory with explosive ordnance as a result
of Russia’s war.

**F.  <u>Other Areas of Security and Defense Cooperation</u>**

The Participants intend to deepen their close cooperation on additional
areas of mutual concern, in support of their national security and to
enhance Ukraine’s overall interoperability with NATO and other relevant
international security bodies.  These additional areas include but are
not limited to countering disinformation and malign influence campaigns;
counterterrorism efforts against international terrorist organizations;
arms control; the nonproliferation of weapons of mass destruction; and
cooperation to strengthen resilience against chemical, biological,
radiological, and nuclear risks.

The Participants intend to further develop their intelligence
cooperation through information sharing, education, training, experience
exchanges, and other forms of cooperation as appropriate.

**Implementation of Article III:  Cooperation on Economic Recovery and
Reform**

**A.  <u>Accountability</u>**

The Participants reaffirm their commitment to holding the Russian
Federation to account for its actions in Ukraine, including damage,
loss, and injury causedto individuals and entities, as well as to the
state of Ukraine, as a result of Russia’s internationally wrongful acts
in or against Ukraine, including its aggression in violation of the UN
Charter. 

The Participants intend to seek to hold accountable those responsible
for war crimes and other international crimes committed in or against
Ukraine, consistent with international law, and to support the full and
fair investigation of alleged international crimes through independent,
effective, and robust legal mechanisms.

The United States intends to support Ukraine in seeking the immediate
release and return of all unlawfully detained and forcibly transferred
civilians, primarily Ukrainian children, and to contribute to
international efforts to hold accountable, consistent with international
law, those responsible for the illegal deportation and displacement of
Ukrainian civilians.

**B.  <u>Immobilization of Russian Sovereign Assets</u> **

The United States intends to hold Russian sovereign assets in United
States jurisdiction immobilized until Russia pays for the damage it has
caused to Ukraine.  The United States, working with its partners,
intends to explore all possible avenues by which immobilized Russian
sovereign assets could be made use of to support Ukraine, consistent
with domestic and international law.

**C.  <u>Sanctions Actions</u>**

The Participants recognize the value of sanctions in raising the cost of
Russia’s war of aggression, degrading Russia’s sources of revenue, and
impeding Russia’s effort to build its capability for aggression,
including by restricting the Russian Federation’s access to the finance,
goods, technology, and services it is utilizing in its aggression. 

The Participants intend to continue to work to ensure that the costs to
Russia for its aggression continue to rise, including through sanctions
and export controls.

**Final Provisions**

**A.  <u>Periodic Review</u>**

The United States and Ukraine commit to periodic, high-level review of
the cooperation described in this annex.  The United States supports the
use of existing mechanisms, such as the Strategic Partnership Dialogue,
Bilateral Defense Consultations, and other bilateral engagements, to
track regular progress.  Both sides support engagements at higher levels
once every 12-18 months dedicated to reviewing joint progress of this
annex as a whole, and to charting specific objectives for future
cooperation under this annex.

This periodic review process should be used to evaluate progress on
mutually decided elements of cooperation and to establish new objectives
once each side has successfully achieved their mutually decided goals. 
Specific objectives should be established on at least an annual basis
through civilian or military channels as appropriate.

**B.  <u>Legal Status and Funding</u>** **<u>of Annex</u>**

Nothing in this annex is intended to give rise to rights or obligations
under domestic or international law.

The United States and Ukraine intend to implement the commitments under
this annex consistent with applicable law and subject to the
availability of appropriated funds.

\###
