---
date: '2024-06-05'
modified_time: 2024-06-05 15:38:01-04:00
published_time: 2024-06-05 16:30:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/06/05/readout-of-white-house-convening-on-used-electric-vehicles/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Readout of White\_House Convening on Used Electric\_Vehicles"
---
 
Today, June 5<sup>th</sup>, 2024, the White House and the Treasury
Department hosted private sector leaders in the pre-owned vehicle sales
industry alongside clean car advocates and State and federal officials
to recognize the momentum generated by the Inflation Reduction Act’s 25E
used clean vehicle tax credit and encourage usage and adoption of the
dealer transferability option that allows consumers to claim the tax
credit at the point of sale. In attendance were John Podesta, Senior
Advisor to the President for International Climate Policy, and other
senior administration officials from the White House and the Treasury
Department. Already, **more than 13,000 dealerships have signed up** to
provide the tax credit at the point of sale, and **90% of EV buyers that
qualify for the credit are opting to receive their cash immediately**
instead of waiting until tax season, **saving buyers over $850
million** **this year alone.** IRS is processing these advance payments
quickly, with dealers generally receiving their payment within a week.

The Inflation Reduction Act’s 25E used clean vehicle tax credit provides
up to $4,000 off qualified electric vehicles for taxpayers that fall
below certain income limits—individual taxpayers making less than
$75,000 or up to $150,000 for married taxpayers that are filing jointly.

Most Americans buy used cars instead of new, so this tax credit makes
going electric more affordable and accessible. In addition, starting on
January 1<sup>st</sup>, 2024, taxpayers have been able to take advantage
of both the used and new clean vehicle tax credits when they purchase
their vehicle at participating dealerships.

As part of today’s convening, **companies large and small made**
[**major, new voluntary
commitments**](https://www.kbb.com/car-news/exclusive-white-house-making-used-ev-tax-credits-easier/)
**to spur usage of the credit, including integrating the credit into
their websites and other point of sale platforms, developing targeted
campaigns, and developing new tools for consumers to learn more about
the credit:**

-   **Carvana** commits to fully integrating the previously owned clean
    vehicle tax credit into its e-commerce experience by the end of the
    summer of 2024 so that customers can shop with transparency and
    instantly realize savings at checkout.
-   By January 1, 2025, **CarMax** will place a badge on their website
    highlighting all potentially eligible vehicles for the federal Used
    Vehicle Tax Credit and allow customers to search specifically for
    such vehicles.
-   **Recharged** commits to simplifying the EV buying experience by
    providing a comprehensive, education-focused platform that
    integrates buying, financing, and charging for households across the
    East Coast by the end of 2025.
-   **Incentivize** commits to making over 50 new partnerships with
    businesses, non profits and other organizations by December 2025, so
    its EV Rebate Calculator is more widely available to consumers as an
    easy-to-use resource for comprehensive federal, state and local EV
    tax credit and rebate eligibility information.
-   **Recurrent,** a provider of used EV history reports, commits to
    publishing vehicle eligibility for 25E rebates in its reports by
    July 2024 to accelerate used EV adoption by helping thousands of
    shoppers find rebate-eligible used inventory on national
    marketplaces and hundreds of regional dealerships.
-   **ZETA** commits to developing and amplifying consumer-oriented
    educational materials to help raise awareness of the 25E credit and
    promote EV adoption by January 2025.
-   As an automotive retail performance agency, **Maritz Automotive
    Solutions** commits to working with original equipment manufacturers
    (OEMs) and dealers to build partnerships with pre-owned automotive
    retailers and conduct at least 1,000 training sessions across the
    country by December 2030 that build competencies in EV product
    knowledge, charging solutions, customer communications and rebate
    management to support EV growth and help make the vehicles
    accessible to all consumers.
-   **American Express Global Business Travel** commits to launching its
    2024-25 Ground Monitor publication in June 2024 to advise corporates
    on how they can embed EVs into their travel program and corporate
    fleets.
-   **Sierra Club** commits to developing informational materials and
    hosting events throughout 2024 to ensure that drivers are aware of
    and understand the eligible tax incentives for new and used electric
    vehicles, which are crucial for providing cost savings, cutting
    vehicle pollution, and achieving our climate goals.
-   **Plug In America** commits to working with Google to develop an
    identifier that clean vehicle dealers can add to their Google
    business profile to flag the dealership as being registered with the
    IRS and participating in the advance payments by September 2024.
-   The **Environmental Defense Fund** commitsto training 50 companies
    on fleet electrification between June 2024 and December 2025, using
    its Net Zero Action Accelerator (NZAA) hub as the basis for the
    training sessions.
-   **Plug In America** and **Recurrent Auto** together commit to
    partnering to maintain a public-facing comprehensive directory of
    retailers and dealers participating in the used EV rebate program
    and ramping up PlugStar used EV sales training content, including on
    used EV incentives, to reach at least 500 retailer and dealer sales
    staff starting in July 2024.

\###
