---
date: '2024-06-17'
published_time: 2024-06-17 15:47:23-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/06/17/joint-fact-sheet-the-united-states-and-india-continue-to-chart-an-ambitious-course-for-the-initiative-on-critical-and-emerging-technology/
tags: statements-releases
title: "JOINT FACT SHEET: The United\_States and India Continue to Chart an Ambitious\
  \ Course for the Initiative on Critical and Emerging\_Technology"
---
 
Today, U.S. National Security Advisor (APNSA) Jake Sullivan and Indian
National Security Advisor (NSA) Ajit Doval chaired the second meeting of
the U.S.-India initiative on Critical and Emerging Technology (iCET) in
New Delhi.  Since the launch of iCET in January 2023, the United States
and India have made significant strides toward deepening and expanding
strategic cooperation across key technology sectors including space,
semiconductors, advanced telecommunications, artificial intelligence,
quantum, biotechnology, and clean energy.  Our work also continues to be
anchored in a shared commitment to ensuring that technology is designed,
developed and deployed in a manner consistent with our democratic values
and respect for universal human rights, as well as a recognition that
the future security and prosperity of the Indo-Pacific will hinge on the
strength of the U.S.-India partnership. 

During the second iCET meeting, APNSA Sullivan and NSA Doval set the
vision for the next chapter of our strategic technology partnership. 
They underscored their commitment to orienting our cooperation around
breakthrough achievements in priority critical and emerging technology
areas, by focusing our efforts on co-production, co-development, and
research and development (R&D) opportunities to ensure we stay at the
leading edge of innovation and enhancing coordination with like-minded
nations to deliver secure, reliable, and cost-competitive technology
solutions for the American and Indian people and our partners around the
world.  Toward this end, they welcomed the inaugural meeting of the
U.S.-India-ROK Trilateral Technology Dialogue held in Seoul in March, as
well as ongoing cooperation with Australia and Japan through the Quad.

APNSA Sullivan and NSA Doval underscored the vital importance of
adapting our technology protection toolkits and resolved to prevent the
leakage of sensitive and dual-use technologies to countries of concern. 
They also committed to take concrete action in the coming months to
address long-standing barriers to bilateral strategic trade, technology,
and industrial cooperation, including in the commercial and civil space
sector.  They noted continued progress under the Strategic Trade
Dialogue, which convened last June in Washington, D.C., as well as
through an iCET intersessional review meeting held in New Delhi by our
Deputy National Security Advisors in December 2023 to support these
measures. They emphasized the need for continued efforts, particularly
under the Strategic Trade Dialogue, to address outstanding barriers to
technology collaboration.

In addition to the iCET meeting, APNSA Sullivan and NSA Doval convened
an industry roundtable that brought together CEOs and thought leaders
from both countries as the United States and India mobilize private
sector investment and partnerships across strategic technology sectors.

The two National Security Advisors resolved to support enhanced
collaboration across our governments, industry, and academia, with a
particular focus on the following areas.  

**<u>Bridging our Innovation Ecosystems</u>**

-   Unlocking a combined $90+ million in U.S. and Indian government
    funding over the next five years for the [U.S.-India Global
    Challenges
    Institute](https://www.aau.edu/newsroom/press-releases/aau-indian-research-universities-agree-establish-indo-us-global-challenges)
    that will forge high-impact university and research partnerships
    between U.S. and Indian institutions in the areas of semiconductor
    technology and manufacturing; sustainable agriculture and food
    security; clean energy; healthy equity and pandemic preparedness,
    and other critical and emerging technologies;

<!-- -->

-   Announcing the selection of the first tranche of funding awards
    between the National Science Foundation and the Indian Department of
    Science and Technology totaling nearly $5 million to support joint
    U.S.-India research projects in areas such as next generation
    telecommunications, connected and autonomous vehicles, and machine
    learning;

<!-- -->

-   Noting the launch of the inaugural “Innovation Handshake” between
    the U.S. Department of Commerce and the Indian Ministry of Commerce
    in November 2023 to address regulatory barriers for startups
    entering the U.S. and India markets, and celebrating the second
    Innovation Handshake event in India in March 2024, which featured 14
    Indian startups and 12 American industry representatives in clean
    energy technology sectors;

<!-- -->

-   Celebrating the U.S. Department of Commerce’s Global Diversity
    Export Initiative trade mission to Bengaluru, Manipal, Mangaluru,
    Kochi, and Coimbatore in February 2024 to deepen STEM partnerships
    between institutions at the leading edge of innovation in technology
    areas such as AI, quantum, data sciences, space, and financial
    technologies.

**<u>Reaching New Heights in Civilian and Defense Space Technology
Cooperation</u>**

-   Securing a carrier for the first-ever joint effort between NASA and
    ISRO astronauts at the International Space Station, which will mark
    a significant milestone in the U.S.-India space partnership and
    space exploration;

<!-- -->

-   Celebrating the conclusion of a Strategic Framework for Human
    Spaceflight Cooperation to deepen interoperability in space and work
    toward commencing advanced training for ISRO astronauts at the NASA
    Johnson Space Center;

<!-- -->

-   Preparing for the launch of the NASA-ISRO Synthetic Aperture Radar,
    a jointly developed satellite that will map the entirety of the
    Earth’s surface twice every 12 days as the United States and India
    work together to combat climate change and other global challenges;

<!-- -->

-   Launching a new partnership between the U.S. Space Force and the
    Indian startups, 114ai and 3rdiTech, including on advancing space
    situational awareness, data fusion technologies, and infra-red
    sensor semiconductor manufacturing;

<!-- -->

-   Welcoming India’s observation of the U.S. Space Command’s Global
    Sentinel Exercise at Vandenburg Space Force Base in February and its
    return as a participant in the exercise in 2025;

<!-- -->

-   Strengthening defense space cooperation through the second Advanced
    Domains Defense Dialogue held at the Pentagon in May 2024, which
    featured a U.S.-India space table-top exercise and included
    bilateral expert exchanges on emerging domains including artificial
    intelligence.

<!-- -->

-   Exploring opportunities for India’s participation in the Lunar
    Gateway Program, as well as joint avenues for collaboration in other
    space technologies.

**<u>Deepening Defense Innovation and Industrial Cooperation</u>**

-   Welcoming the discussions on India’s planned acquisition of the
    MQ-9B platforms, the possible co-production of land warfare systems,
    and progress on other co-production initiatives outlined in the
    U.S.-India Roadmap for Defense Industrial Cooperation;

<!-- -->

-   Celebrating the second edition of the India-U.S. Defense
    Acceleration Ecosystem (INDUS-X) Summit which took place in February
    this year and during which the two sides announced an INDUS-X
    Investor Summit that will take place in Silicon Valley in September
    2024; the awarding of up to $1.2 million in seed funding to 10 U.S.
    and Indian companies under Joint IMPACT 1.0 Challenges; the intent
    to launch two challenges focused on space-based intelligence,
    surveillance, and reconnaissance (ISR) under IMPACT 2.0; and the
    launch of an INDUSWERX Testing Consortium steered by industry,
    academia and non-profit organizations across the United States and
    India to promote access to testing and certification facilities;

<!-- -->

-   Deepening cooperation between the U.S. Defense Innovation Unit and
    India’s Innovations for Defense Excellence (iDEX) to accelerate the
    joint adoption of cutting-edge commercial technologies for military
    solutions and capability enhancement of both defense ecosystems,
    including through a Memorandum of Understanding;

<!-- -->

-   Noting progress in negotiations between GE Aerospace and Hindustan
    Aeronautics Limited for the co-production of GE F414-INS6 engines to
    power India’s future fighter fleet;

<!-- -->

-   Expanding defense industrial partnerships, such as the launch of an
    AI Multi-Doman Situational Awareness product jointly developed by
    General Atomics and 114ai to support joint all domain command and
    control.

**<u>Pursuing Advanced Telecommunications Opportunities</u>**

-   Noting the recent finalization of the U.S.-India Open RAN
    Acceleration Roadmap, ongoing 5G and 6G R&D Task Force
    collaboration, and continuing efforts between U.S. and Indian
    industry to work toward large-scale Open RAN deployments in India
    and the United States;

<!-- -->

-   Building partnerships to deploy high-quality, cost-effective Open
    RAN technology at scale, including through a $5 million USAID Edge
    Fund grant to Qualcomm and Mavenir to test its ORAN stack in India
    in partnership with Bharti Airtel, with Qualcomm contributing an
    additional $9.4 million to the project;

<!-- -->

-   Promoting Open RAN workforce development opportunities in India
    through USAID’s Emerging Technologies in the Indo-Pacific program,
    an 18-month, $410,000 activity to integrate Open RAN-related
    educational content into Indian technical training programs and
    foster collaboration between Indian institutions and the Asia Open
    RAN Academy in the Philippines;

<!-- -->

-   Cooperating on secure and trusted telecommunications products and
    components and product-level security;

<!-- -->

-   Strengthening cooperation in 6G technologies through working groups
    that would potentially focus on evolving 6G related technologies
    like network sensing, intelligent reflecting surface, a
    human-centric cognition-based wireless access framework, and other
    priority areas;

<!-- -->

-   Forging public-private cooperation between vendors and operators of
    the two countries led by India’s Bharat 6G Alliance and the U.S.
    Next G Alliance for Open RAN field trails and roll-outs in both the
    countries, with U.S. funding support.

**<u>Combining Capabilities in Biotechnology and Biomanufacturing</u>**

-   Celebrating the launch of a Track 1.5 Biopharmaceutical Supply Chain
    Consortium – the “Bio-5” on June 5 with key industry and government
    stakeholders from the United States, India, the ROK, Japan, and the
    European Commission to enhance resilience in supply chains for
    active pharmaceutical ingredients, key starting materials, and
    foster high-impact R&D collaboration.

<!-- -->

-   Noting the establishment of the first-ever National Science
    Foundation and Department of Biotechnology joint funding
    opportunity, through which the two organizations will support
    collaborative research proposals to promote biotechnology innovation
    and advance the bioeconomy;

<!-- -->

-   Developing a joint Strategic Framework for building
    biopharmaceutical supply chain optimization to strengthen global
    supply chains and reduce dependencies on single-source suppliers, in
    support of Bio-5, led by the Department of Health and Human Services
    and the Department of State on the U.S. side, and the Departments of
    Biotechnology, Pharmaceuticals and the Ministry of Health and Family
    Welfare on the Indian side;

<!-- -->

-   Welcoming the launch of a “Bio-X” initiative that would promote
    biotechnology cooperation by leveraging the synergies between
    domestic programs and enhancing the competitiveness of the
    biotechnology industries in both countries, including in areas such
    as molecular communication and the Internet of Bio-Nano Things.

**<u>Securing Semiconductor Supply Chains</u>**

-   Launching a new strategic semiconductor partnership between General
    Atomics and 3rdiTech to co-develop semiconductor design and
    manufacturing for precision-guided ammunition and other national
    security-focused electronics platforms;

<!-- -->

-   Celebrating the conclusion of a joint Semiconductor Readiness
    Assessment through a partnership between the U.S. Semiconductor
    Industry Association and the India Electronics Semiconductor
    Association, which identifies near-term industry opportunities and
    facilitates longer-term strategic development of complementary
    semiconductor ecosystems;

<!-- -->

-   Expanding engagement with U.S. and Indian investors in the
    semiconductor industry in India, to continue building India’s robust
    semiconductor and information communication technology ecosystem.

**<u>Building a Clean Energy and a Critical Minerals Partnership for the
21<sup>st</sup> Century</u>**

-   Promoting India’s vital role in the Mineral Security Partnership,
    including through co-investing in a lithium resource project in
    South America and a rare earths deposit in Africa, to responsibly
    and sustainably diversify critical mineral supply chains;

<!-- -->

-   Establishing a U.S.-India Advanced Materials R&D Forum on the
    margins of the U.S.-India Joint Committee Meeting on Science and
    Technology to expand collaboration between American and Indian
    universities, national laboratories, and private sector researchers;

<!-- -->

-   Deepening industrial and commercial coordination for critical
    mineral supply chains under the U.S.-India Commercial Dialogue
    between the U.S. Department of Commerce and the Indian Ministry of
    Commerce and Industry, with private sector input from the U.S.-India
    CEO Forum.

<!-- -->

-   Committing to quickly conclude a bilateral Critical Minerals
    Memorandum of Understanding between the U.S. Department of Commerce
    and the Indian Ministry of Commerce and Industry and the Ministry of
    Mines, and driving additional areas of cooperation in critical
    mineral supply chains such as for graphite, gallium, and germanium

<!-- -->

-   Exploring opportunities for collaboration in the critical minerals
    sector like bilateral collaboration in technologies for
    Neodymium-iron-boron metal, alloy and magnet making, collaboration
    with Department of Energy entities;

<!-- -->

-   Advancing Indian collaboration with U.S. organizations and companies
    for carrying out research studies for beneficiation of critical
    minerals, including lithium, titanium, gallium, and vanadium;

<!-- -->

-   Building a collaborative program between the Geological Survey of
    India and the U.S. Geological Survey on exploration,
    characterization and evaluation of rare earth elements and critical
    mineral deposits.

**<u>Pursuing Quantum, Artificial Intelligence, and High-Performance
Computing Collaboration</u>**

-   Initiating new cooperation in quantum science and technology,
    including through launching a workshop on post-quantum cryptography
    at the University of California, Los Angeles and facilitating visits
    of Indian technical experts from academia and the private sector to
    visit U.S. national laboratories and quantum institutions;

<!-- -->

-   Expanding cooperation in quantum communication, post quantum
    migration and security, and Digital Twins;

<!-- -->

-   Celebrating longstanding cooperation by the State
    Department-supported U.S.-India Science and Technology Endowment
    Fund and its forthcoming announcement of winners of the “Quantum
    Technologies and AI for Transforming Lives” competition, fostering
    joint R&D to generate public good through the commercialization of
    technology;

<!-- -->

-   Welcoming the Indian Centre for Development of Advanced Computing’s
    membership in the U.S. Accelerated Data Analytics and Computing
    Institute, a multilateral information exchange mechanism, as the
    Biden-Harris Administration continues to work with the U.S. Congress
    to lower barriers to U.S. exports to India for high-performance
    computing and source code.
