---
date: '2024-06-26'
modified_time: 2024-06-25 18:52:31-04:00
published_time: 2024-06-26 05:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/06/26/fact-sheet-vice-president-harris-announces-first-of-its-kind-funding-to-lower-housing-costs-by-reducing-barriers-to-building-more-homes/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Vice President Harris Announces First-of-Its-Kind Funding to Lower\
  \ Housing Costs by Reducing Barriers to Building More\_Homes"
---
 
*The $85 million in PRO Housing funds announced today will empower
communities nationwide to lower housing costs and boost housing supply
through locally-led planning, infrastructure, development, and
preservation activities in 21 communities.*

**WASHINGTON **– Today, Vice President Harris announced the recipients
of new grants under the Pathways to Removing Obstacles to Housing (PRO
Housing) grant competition with the goal of building more housing, and
lowering housing and rental costs for American families. The President
and the Vice President know that the cost of housing is too high. That’s
why the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) created
PRO Housing a first-of-its-kind program that provides funding to
communities actively addressing barriers to building new units. Funding
will support updates to state and local housing plans, land use
policies, permitting processes, and other actions aimed at building and
preserving more affordable housing.  
  
We are starting to see some progress. More housing units are under
construction during this Administration than at any time in the last 50
years, rents have fallen over the last year in many places, and the
homeownership rate is higher now than before the pandemic. But rent is
still too high, and Americans who want to buy a home still have
difficulty finding one they can afford. That is why President Biden and
Vice President Harris are committed to lower housing costs, including by
increasing housing supply by building and preserving more homes. In the
State of the Union, President Biden called on Congress to pass his and
Vice President Harris’s plan to build two million additional homes,
increase rental assistance, and help first-time and first-generation
homebuyers.  
  
Recognizing that every community is different, the grants announced
today are critical to breaking down local barriers that stand in the way
of housing development and lower costs. Common barriers to housing
identified in the PRO Housing applications include the high cost of land
and development, underutilized vacant land and property, aging housing
stock, inadequate infrastructure, displacement pressures, risks of
extreme weather or environment hazards, and outdated land-use and
permitting policies and processes.  
  
The demand for these awards was substantial, with requests exceeding $13
for every $1 available. Applications came from more than 175 communities
across 47 states and territories, representing diverse demographics and
geographic settings. The Biden-Harris Administration will also release
an additional $100 million in PRO Housing funding later this summer.  
  
The awards announced today build upon the historic levels of funding
made available for housing, infrastructure, and community resilience by
the Biden-Harris Administration. The President’s FY25 Budget proposes a
historic investment of more than $258 billion in housing, including a
$20 billion Innovation Fund for Housing Expansion, which would provide
critical support to further eliminate barriers to housing, spur
development, and encourage innovative housing solutions. The President’s
FY25 Budget also proposes an additional $100 million request for PRO
Housing grants. Vice President Harris has been highlighting the
Administration’s investments in affordable housing and homeownership as
part of her nationwide Economic Opportunity Tour in Georgia, Michigan,
Wisconsin, and North Carolina.  
  
“President Biden and I believe that every American deserves affordable
housing so they have a roof over their head and a place to call home.
That is why we have a plan to build millions of new units of affordable
housing in communities all across our nation, which will bring down the
cost of housing for renters and help more Americans buy a home,” **said
Vice President Harris.** “Today, I am proud to announce that we are
taking a critical step forward by investing $85 million to help more
than 20 communities throughout our country remove barriers to building
more affordable housing.”  
  
HUD is awarding $85 million in funding through PRO Housing to 21
winners. The winners include jurisdictions ranging from under 5,000
residents in a rural community to millions of people across an urban
county. In addition to the grant funding, winners will be invited to
participate in a technical assistance cohort to facilitate peer learning
and implementation support. HUD will also offer technical assistance for
communities who applied for round one funding and other HUD grantees
committed to addressing barriers to housing – highlighting how annual
grants and low-cost federal financing can be used to adopt
housing-forward strategies and boost housing supply.  
  
“President Biden and Vice President Harris have prioritized reducing
housing costs,” **said HUD Acting Secretary Todman**. “As I travel
across the country, I hear from people all the time, including builders,
elected officials, and other stakeholders, about how difficult it is to
build housing. This is why I am pleased to announce our first round of
PRO Housing funding, which will provide communities with incentives to
address their local housing barriers. This expands on our ongoing
efforts to lower housing costs by increasing the housing supply.”  
  
The PRO Housing winners have already invested in strategies to boost
housing supply, reform local regulations, incentivize development,
prevent displacement, and encourage community driven solutions.  
  
This announcement fulfills a commitment made in the Administration’s
Housing Supply Action Plan, and builds on sweeping actions to reduce
barriers, boost housing supply, and lower costs, including:

-   **Leveraging discretionary grant programs to encourage state and
    local action to build more housing.** The U.S. Department of
    Transportation (DOT) has updated its scoring criteria to reward
    applications from communities with pro-housing policies in place;
    already, DOT has announced approximately $22 billion in competitive
    grant funds using the revamped criteria. In addition, the Economic
    Development Administration (EDA) has updated its Investment
    Priorities to encourage economic development projects that enhance
    density.  
     
-   **Updated guidance for converting commercial property to
    housing. **Last fall, the White House released a [Commercial to
    Residential Federal Resources
    Guidebook](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/10/Commercial-to-Residential-Conversions-Guidebook.pdf) with
    over 20 federal programs across six federal agencies that can be
    used to support conversions. These programs include low-interest
    loans, loan guarantees, grants, and tax incentives, which, subject
    to the requirements of each program, may be used together to
    increase the economic viability of conversion projects.  
     
-   **Provided low-cost capital for housing.** The Federal Housing
    Administration (FHA) and Federal Financing Bank (FFB) Risk Sharing
    program provides capital to state and local housing finance agencies
    (HFAs), enabling them to insure multifamily loans at reduced
    interest rates to create and preserve high-quality, affordable
    rental homes. After the previous Administration suspended the
    program, the Biden-Harris Administration restarted it in 2021. Since
    then, more than 12,000 affordable housing units have been created or
    preserved, supported by almost $2 billion in FHA-insured loans made
    through the program. In February, HUD and Treasury extended the
    program indefinitely, which will create an estimated 38,000
    additional units over ten years, as well as bolster HFA
    participation in the program.  
     
-   **Finalized the Low-Income Housing Tax Credit (LIHTC) “Income
    Averaging” rule.** To qualify for LIHTC, developers must make
    commitments to create housing that is affordable to households that
    meet specific income thresholds. Income averaging allows a developer
    to meet the same affordability goals by taking the average of the
    income for some households who are in the property as opposed to
    requiring all to meet the same threshold. This “average-income test”
    for LIHTC qualification will enable the creation of more
    financially-stable, mixed-income developments and make
    LIHTC-supported housing more feasible in sparsely populated rural
    areas. It will also facilitate the production of additional
    affordable and available units for extremely low-income tenants.
    Treasury has also provided needed guidance to developers using LIHTC
    equity to build multifamily housing that is rented to tenants across
    a wider income spectrum.  
     
-   **Streamlined and modernized the HOME program. **Earlier this
    spring, HUD published a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking for the HOME
    Investment Partnership Program. The proposed rule, if finalized as
    proposed, would streamline program requirements for states and
    localities, better align HOME funding with other federal housing
    resources, reduce administrative burden for communities and housing
    developers, improve assistance and protections for renters,
    strengthen the use of HOME for homeownership activities, and
    encourage green and climate resilient building practices. The HOME
    program is a critical tool to bolster housing supply and preserve
    existing affordable housing at a time of need.  
     
-   **Invested in making our nation’s affordable housing more energy
    efficient and resilient.** This week, HUD announced an additional
    $142 million in funding to support energy efficiency and climate
    resiliency renovations to combat the climate crisis and improve the
    lives of residents in HUD-supported housing through the Green and
    Resilient Retrofit program (GRRP). As of today, HUD has announced a
    total of $686 million under this program.  
     
-   **Published a $235 million funding opportunity to support
    manufactured housing communities. **Through the Preservation and
    Reinvestment Initiative for Community Enhancement (PRICE) Program,
    HUD has made $225 million available to support manufactured housing
    communities and residents of manufactured homes. Applications are
    due July 10th.  
     
-   **Increasing loan limits for Title I Manufactured Housing. **FHA
    published a [final
    rule](https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2024/02/28/2024-04138/indexing-methodology-for-title-i-manufactured-home-loan-limits) increasing
    loan limits for the Title I Manufactured Housing program, which
    insures loans to finance the purchase or refinancing of manufactured
    homes titled as personal property. Doing so will allow FHA to better
    serve low- and moderate-income and first-time buyers of manufactured
    housing whose financing needs have not been well-served by the
    private market. Historically, HUD’s Title I program has been an
    important source of financing for manufactured homes, but low loan
    limits have made the program dormant in recent years. The rule will
    increase loan limits to be in line with current market prices and
    enable HUD to regularly update the limits in the future. To support
    this action, Ginnie
    Mae [revised](https://www.ginniemae.gov/issuers/program_guidelines/Pages/mbsguideapmslibdisppage.aspx?ParamID=157) eligibility
    requirements for Issuers of its Manufactured Housing Mortgage-Backed
    Securities program. These actions are intended to reduce barriers to
    entry for Issuers and increase participation in its securitization
    program for Title I loans.  
     
-   **Made historic investments in homebuilding and community
    development in Indian Country. **HUD announced the largest ever
    funding investment in Native American housing for affordable housing
    activities including new housing construction, rehabilitation,
    housing services, and more.  
     
-   **Expanded access to financing for homes with accessory dwelling
    units (ADUs).** Announced a new policy to allow for the inclusion of
    rental income from an ADU in a borrower’s income. This action
    enables more homebuyers to purchase a home with an ADU or seek to
    add one to qualify for FHA-insured financing.

The Vice President’s announcement builds on her career of working to
protect homeowners and address housing supply and affordability. As
Attorney General of California, she helped pass the California Homeowner
Bill of Rights to provide protections to homeowners facing foreclosure.
As U.S. Senator, she introduced several bills to increase the supply of
affordable housing and lower costs for renters.  
  
Now as Vice President, she has led several announcements to ensure all
families have a safe and affordable place to live, including $5.5
billion in new funding to boost affordable housing, invest in economic
growth, build wealth, and address homelessness across America. The Vice
President has also led the charge on addressing racial bias in home
appraisals by announcing key actions of the PAVE Action Plan, including
steps taken to make it easier for more homeowners to appeal home
appraisals that may be undervalued because of racial bias.

\# \# \#
