---
date: '2024-06-13'
published_time: 2024-06-13 12:02:01-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/06/13/g7-partnership-for-global-infrastructure-and-investment-side-event-co-chair-statement/
tags: statements-releases
title: "G7 Partnership for Global Infrastructure and Investment Side Event Co-Chair\_\
  Statement"
---
 
The President of the Council of Ministers of Italy and G7 President,
Giorgia Meloni, and the President of the United States, Joseph R. Biden,
met with the other Leaders of the G7 and Italian and U.S. private sector
representing the financial, energy and digital/technology sectors on the
sidelines of the 2024 G7 Leaders’ Summit on June 13th, in Borgo Egnazia,
Italy.

The Italian and U.S. co-chairs welcomed Italy’s Mattei Plan for Africa
(MPA) and its links with the Partnership for Global Infrastructure and
Investment (PGII). As a G7 we agreed to support flagship projects to
develop transformative economic corridors for quality infrastructure and
investment, such as the deepening of our coordination and financing for
the Lobito Corridor, Luzon Corridor, the Middle Corridor, and the India
– Middle East – Europe Economic Corridor, also building on the EU Global
Gateway and other relevant initiatives.

In support of the G7’s Partnership for Global Infrastructure and
Investment (PGII) topline goal of mobilizing $600 billion in
infrastructure investment in emerging economies, a coalition of U.S.
investors highlighted and committed anew billions of dollars in private
investment in scaled infrastructure in emerging markets, aligned with
PGII priorities. The Italian Private Sector highlighted its investments
in the framework of the PGII and the Mattei Plan for Africa. In the
context of this engagement, the Mattei Plan for Africa has launched new
financial instruments in collaboration with the African Development
Bank, open to international partners’ contributions. The meeting
confirmed the commitment to launching and scaling investments around
PGII economic corridors globally, including corridors in Asia, Africa,
and one connecting Europe to Asia through the Middle East, noting
appreciation for the wide range of current and future investment by
private companies in strategic sectors, such as finance for green energy
and digitalization.

Today, Italy joined U.S. and EU efforts to promote sustainable
development along the Lobito Corridor – committing to strengthen
collaboration and mobilize an additional aggregate contribution of up to
$320 million in investment in support of the core rail infrastructure
and of the related side projects, with a view to additionally creating
synergies with AGIA (Alliance for Green Infrastructure in Africa).

The Co-chairs welcomed Italy’s renewed commitment to boost development
in Africa including by deepening partnerships with African Nations
through its Mattei Plan for Africa (MPA), and stressed their commitment
to increase coordination between PGII, MPA and the EU’s Global Gateway,
to maximize our collective impact as we work to develop transformative
economic corridors in Africa.

The Co-chairs welcomed the Africa Green Industrialization Initiative
(AGII) as a key platform for collaboration on infrastructure investment
in Africa and celebrated the Global Energy Alliance for People and
Planet (GEAPP) commitment of up to $100 million in philanthropic
catalytic investment capital to unlock an additional $1 billion in
private finance. The participants also recognized GEAPP as one of the
key partners in implementing distributed renewable energy generation,
battery storage, and e-mobility projects.

Italy and the United States are further collaborating on clean energy,
sustainable agriculture, and e-mobility projects, starting with
potential projects in Kenya.

Lastly, Leaders welcomed Italy’s G7 Presidency’s efforts to promote
effective implementation of PGII and enhance investment coordination
with partners through the establishment of a new Secretariat.

\###
