---
date: '2024-06-21'
modified_time: 2024-06-21 08:13:57-04:00
published_time: 2024-06-21 08:30:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/06/21/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-over-one-million-pensions-protected-thanks-to-the-american-rescue-plan/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Announces Over One Million Pensions\
  \ Protected Thanks to the American Rescue\_Plan"
---
 
*One million workers and retirees’ earned pension benefits protected as
Administration and Senator Casey announce assistance for over 100,000
union workers and retirees covered by the Bakery and Confectionery Union
and Industry International Pension Fund*

Today in Hershey, Pennsylvania, Senator Bob Casey and Senior Advisor to
the President and White House American Rescue Plan Coordinator Gene
Sperling were joined by Bakery, Confectionery, Tobacco Workers and Grain
Millers International Union (BCTGM) President Anthony Shelton and
workers and retirees from BCTGM Locals 464 and 6 to announce American
Rescue Plan (ARP) assistance that will prevent benefit cuts for the
roughly 103,000 workers and retirees—including over 6,700 in
Pennsylvania—who earned these pension benefits over years or even
decades, and faced cuts through no fault of their own. This is the
second largest award to date through the American Rescue Plan’s Butch
Lewis Act. This announcement brings the total number of pensions
protected by the American Rescue Plan to over 1 million, including over
52,000 Pennsylvanians, 71,000 Illinoisans, 71,000 New Yorkers, 62,000
Ohioans, 61,000 Michiganders, 39,000 Missourians, 33,000 Wisconsinites
and many more.

**Today’s Announcement Protects the Earned Pensions of more than 103,000
Union Workers and Retirees from Devastating 45% cuts:** Prior to passage
of the ARP, the Bakery and Confectionery Union and Industry
International Pension Fund was one of the largest financially distressed
multiemployer pension plans in the nation. Workers in this plan include
manufacturing, production, maintenance and sanitation workers in
the baking and confectionery industries.

Without the historic support to protect workers’ pension benefits
included in President Biden’s American Rescue Plan, these workers and
retirees—who have already earned these benefits—would have faced
estimated benefit reductions of roughly 45% by the end of the decade.
Instead, thanks to ARP, the plan will now be projected to pay full
benefits to workers and retirees through at least 2051.

**Today Marks <u>Over One Million Workers and Retirees Protected</u> to
Date Thanks to President Biden Including this Protection into the
American Rescue Plan:** Administered by the Pension Benefit Guaranty
Corporation (PBGC), the ARP’s Special Financial Assistance program—known
as the “Butch Lewis Act” for the heroic Ohio union leader and pension
advocate—will provided security for roughly 200 distressed multiemployer
pension plans to ensure roughly 2 million workers’ pension plans remain
solvent and will be able to pay the full benefits that workers have
earned over the next several decades. These workers and their unions
made the tough choice to take less wages in their working years to
ensure that they could have the resources for a strong, dignified
retirement. At no fault of their own, these workers on average faced
devastating cuts—on average 37%—before the passage of President Biden’s
American Rescue Plan.

With today’s announcement, the Biden Harris Administration has:

-   **Delivered assistance to 83 pension plans covering over one million
    workers and retirees**. Multiemployer plans that receive assistance
    are projected to remain solvent through at least 2051—with no cuts
    to earned benefits.

<!-- -->

-   **Prevented deep cuts of 37% on average**: On average, those workers
    and retirees experienced or faced projected cuts of 37% of their
    earned benefits prior to ARP Special Financial Assistance. Over half
    of those 1 million workers or retirees had already experienced or
    faced projected benefit cuts of greater than 40% on average.
    -   **Avoided imminent cuts**: Over half of those million workers
        and retirees are in pension plans that had already cut benefits
        or were projected to become insolvent by the end of 2025.
-   **Restored Harsh Pension Benefit Cuts That Had Already Been Made for
    Tens of Thousands of Retirees in 36 Multiemployer Plans**. For most
    workers and retirees, President Biden’s plan protected them from
    dire cuts and insolvency that was soon to come. Prior to enactment
    of the ARP, however, 36 such plans covering 120,000 workers and
    retirees already had suffered deep cuts due to their pension plans
    becoming insolvent or under the Multiemployer Pension Reform Act
    (MPRA) in order to avoid future pension plan insolvency. Thanks to
    ARP Special Financial Assistance, benefit levels in these plans have
    been restored and retirees have been made whole, on average
    restoring several thousands of dollars of lost benefits.
-   **Supported union workers and retirees across many industries,
    including:**
    -   Over 500,000 workers and retirees in **Teamsters** union pension
        plans

    <!-- -->

    -   Over 120,000 workers and retirees in **United Food and
        Commercial Workers** pension plans

    <!-- -->

    -   Over 110,000 workers and retirees in **United Steelworkers** and
        **United Auto Workers** pension plans

    <!-- -->

    -   Over 100,000 workers and retirees in **Bakery and Confectionery
        Workers** union plans

    <!-- -->

    -   Over 50,000 workers and retirees in **Communications Workers of
        America** union plans
-   **Protected workers’ and retirees’ earned benefits across the
    country**. The 20 states with the most workers and retirees
    benefitting from American Rescue Plan pension relief:

<table>
<tbody>
<tr class="odd">
<td class="has-text-align-left"
data-align="left"><strong>State</strong></td>
<td><strong>Workers and Retirees</strong></td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td class="has-text-align-left" data-align="left">Illinois</td>
<td>71,000</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td class="has-text-align-left" data-align="left">New York</td>
<td>71,000</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td class="has-text-align-left" data-align="left">Ohio</td>
<td>62,000</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td class="has-text-align-left" data-align="left">Michigan</td>
<td>61,000</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td class="has-text-align-left" data-align="left">California</td>
<td>53,000</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td class="has-text-align-left" data-align="left">Pennsylvania</td>
<td>52,000</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td class="has-text-align-left" data-align="left">Missouri</td>
<td>39,000</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td class="has-text-align-left" data-align="left">Florida</td>
<td>35,000</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td class="has-text-align-left" data-align="left">Indiana</td>
<td>34,000</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td class="has-text-align-left" data-align="left">Wisconsin</td>
<td>33,000</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td class="has-text-align-left" data-align="left">Texas</td>
<td>33,000</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td class="has-text-align-left" data-align="left">Maryland</td>
<td>31,000</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td class="has-text-align-left" data-align="left">Minnesota</td>
<td>30,000</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td class="has-text-align-left" data-align="left">Georgia</td>
<td>23,000</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td class="has-text-align-left" data-align="left">Tennessee</td>
<td>22,000</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td class="has-text-align-left" data-align="left">New Jersey</td>
<td>18,000</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td class="has-text-align-left" data-align="left">North Carolina</td>
<td>18,000</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td class="has-text-align-left" data-align="left">Kentucky</td>
<td>17,000</td>
</tr>
<tr class="even">
<td class="has-text-align-left" data-align="left">Virginia</td>
<td>17,000</td>
</tr>
<tr class="odd">
<td class="has-text-align-left" data-align="left">Alabama</td>
<td>15,000</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>

**Through the Special Financial Assistance Program, ARP included the
most significant effort to protect the solvency of the multiemployer
pension system in almost 50 years.** Multiemployer plans are created
through agreements between employers and a union, with plans typically
involving multiple employers in a single industry or related industries.
A typical worker whose multiemployer plan became insolvent would see
their expected pension benefits slashed substantially. Before ARP,
workers and retirees participating in more than 200 multiemployer
pension plans faced the prospect of not receiving the full benefits they
earned and need to support them and their families in retirement. These
plans are insured by the PBGC, a federal agency which provides partial
protection of the benefits of approximately 11.2 million workers and
retirees in approximately 1,400 private-sector multiemployer,
union-connected plans. Prior to the ARP, the PBGC’s multiemployer
pension insurance program was itself projected to become insolvent in
2026. Thanks to the ARP, once-struggling multiemployer pension plans
will be able pay the full benefits earned by workers and retirees who
participate in these plans through at least 2051.

\###
