---
date: '2024-06-26'
published_time: 2024-06-26 10:44:12-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/06/26/readout-of-national-security-advisor-to-the-vice-president-phil-gordons-trip-to-israel-and-the-west-bank/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Readout of National Security Advisor to the Vice President Phil Gordon\u2019\
  s Trip to Israel and the West\_Bank"
---
 
National Security Advisor to the Vice President Dr. Phil Gordon visited
Israel June 23-25 to
deliver [remarks](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/06/24/remarks-by-national-security-advisor-to-the-vice-president-dr-phil-gordon-at-the-herzliya-conference/) at
the Herzliya Conference and to consult with Israeli officials on Gaza,
Lebanon, and other areas. Dr. Gordon met with President Isaac Herzog,
National Security Advisor Tzachi Hanegbi, Minister for Strategic Affairs
Ron Dermer, and Chairman of the National Unity Party Benny Gantz.
Throughout his discussions with Israeli officials, Dr. Gordon discussed
Israeli operations in Gaza and day-after planning efforts on
reconstruction, security, and governance in Gaza. Dr. Gordon reiterated
the importance of the ceasefire deal that is on the table and the
imperative of securing the release of all hostages. Dr. Gordon
emphasized the importance of improving the humanitarian situation in
Gaza. Dr. Gordon reaffirmed the United States’ ironclad commitment to
Israel’s security against all Iranian-backed terrorist groups to include
Lebanese Hezbollah.  They discussed ongoing U.S. efforts to support
de-escalation across the Blue Line and a diplomatic resolution that
would ensure the return of both Israeli and Lebanese families to their
homes in the area. Dr. Gordon discussed the situation in the West Bank
and expressed concern with steps — including extreme settler violence
and settlement expansion — that could destabilize the West Bank and
undermine the cause of peace.  
  
On June 25, Dr. Gordon traveled to Ramallah, the West Bank, to continue
our consultations with Palestinian officials. Dr. Gordon met with
Secretary General of the Executive Committee of the PLO Hussein
al-Sheikh and Prime Minister of the Palestinian Authority Muhammad
Mustafa. Dr. Gordon welcomed the appointment of the new Palestinian
Authority cabinet and discussed the need for continued reforms to
deliver results for the Palestinian people.  Dr. Gordon and Palestinian
officials discussed the conflict in Gaza and day-after planning
efforts. Dr. Gordon expressed the importance of improving humanitarian
aid delivery in Gaza, and our concern with steps — such
as extreme settler violence and settlement expansion — that could
destabilize the West Bank and undermine the cause of peace. 

\# \# \#
