---
date: '2024-06-04'
published_time: 2024-06-04 16:38:37-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/06/04/remarks-by-president-biden-on-securing-our-border/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Remarks by President\_Biden on Securing Our\_Border"
---
 
East Room

2:20 P.M. EDT

THE PRESIDENT:  Good afternoon.  I’ve come here today to do what the
Republicans in Congress refuse to do: take the necessary steps to secure
our border. 

Four months ago, after weeks of intense negotiation between my staff and
Democrats and Republicans, we came to a clear — clear bipartisan deal
that was the strongest border security agreement in decades.  But then
Republicans in Congress — not all, but — walked away from it. 

Why?  Because Donald Trump told them to.  He told the Republicans — it
has been published widely by many of you — that he didn’t want to fix
the issue; he wanted to use it to attack me.  That’s what he wanted to
do.  It was a cynical and a – extremely cynical political move and a
complete disservice to the American people, who are looking for us to —
not to weaponize the border but to fix it. 

Today, I am joined by a bipartisan group of governors, members of
Congress, mayors, law enforcement officials — most of whom live and work
along the southern border.  They know the border is not a political
issue to be weaponized — the responsibility we have to share to do
something about it.  They don’t have time for the games played in
Washington, and neither do the American people. 

So, today, I’m moving past Republican obstruction and using the
executive authorities available to me as president to do what I can on
my own to address the border.   
  
Frankly, I would have preferred to address this issue through bipartisan
legislation, because that’s the only way to actually get the kind of
system we have now — that’s broken — fixed, to hire more Border Patrol
agents, more asylum officers, more judges.  But Republicans have left me
with no choice. 

Today, I’m announcing actions to bar migrants who cross our southern
border unlawfully from receiving asylum.  Migrants will be restricted
from receiving asylum at our southern border unless they seek it after
entering through an established lawful process.  

And those who seek — come to the United States legally — for example, by
making an appointment and coming to a port of entry — asylum will still
be available to them — still available.  But if an individual chooses
not to use our legal pathways, if they choose to come without permission
and against the law, they’ll be restricted from receiving asylum and
staying in the United States. 

This action will help us to gain control of our border, restore order to
the process.   
  
This ban will remain in place until the number of people trying to enter
illegally is reduced to a level that our system can effectively
manage.   
  
We’ll carry out this order consistent with all our responsibilities
under international law — every one of them. 

In addition to this action, we recently made important reforms in our
asylum system: more efficient and more secure reforms.  The goal is to
deliver decisions on asylum as quickly as possible.   
  
The quicker the decis- — the quicker decision means that a migrant is
less likely to pay a criminal smuggler thousands of dollars to take them
on a dangerous journey, knowing that if, in fact, they move in the wrong
direction, they’d be turned around quickly. 

And two weeks ago, the Department of Justice stated — started a new
docket in the immigration courts to address cases where people who’ve
recently crossed the border and make — they’ll make a decision within
six months rather than six years, because that’s what happens now.  

Additionally, the Department of Homeland Security has proposed new rules
to allow federal law enforcement to more quickly remove asylum seekers
that have criminal convictions and remove them from the United
States.   
  
My administration is also — recently launched new efforts to go after
criminal networks that profit from smuggling migrants to our border and
incentivize people to give tips to law enforcement to provide
information that brings smugglers to justice. 

We’re also sending additional federal prosecutors to hot spots along the
border and prosecute individuals who break our immigration laws. 

One other critical step that we — we’ll be taking, and that is — made a
huge difference: We continue to work closely with our Mexican neighbors
instead of attacking Mexico, and it’s worked. 

We built a strong partnership of trust between the Mexican President,
López Obrador, and I’m going to do the same with the Mexican-elect
President, who I spoke with yesterday.

We’ve chosen to work together with Mexico as an equal partner, and the
facts are clear.  Due to the arrangements that I’ve reached with
President Obrador, the number of migrants coming and shared — to our
shared border unlawfully in recent months has dropped dramatically. 

But while these steps are important, they’re not enough.   
  
To truly secure the border, we have to change our laws, and Congress
needs to provide the necessary funding to hire 1,500 more border
security agents; 100 more immigration judges to help tackle the backlog
of cases — more than 2 million of them; 4,300 more asylum officers to
make decisions in less than six months instead of six years, which is
what it takes now; and around 100 more high-tech detection machines to
significantly increase the ability to screen and stop fentanyl being
smuggled into the United States. 

These investments were one of the primary reasons that the Border Patrol
union endorsed the bipartisan deal in the first place.  And these
investments are essential and remain essential.   
  
As far as I’m concerned, if you’re not willing to spend the money to
hire more Border Patrol agents, more asylum officers, more judges, more
high-tech machinery, you’re just not serious about protecting our
border.  It’s as simple as that.

I believe that immigration has always been a lifeblood of America. 
We’re constantly renewed by an infusion of people with — and new
talent.   
  
The Statue of Liberty is not some relic of American history.  It stands
for who we are as the United States. 

So, I will never demonize immigrants.  I will never refer to immigrants
as “poisoning the blood” of a country.  And further, I’ll never separate
children from their families at the border.   
  
I will not ban people from this country because of their religious
beliefs.  I will not use the U.S. military to go into neighborhoods all
across the country to pull millions of people out of their homes and
away from their families to put detention camps and awai- — while
awaiting deportation, as my predecessor says he will do if he to- —
occupies this office again.

On my fir- — very first day as president, I introduced a comprehensive
immigration reform plan to fix — to fix our broken sy- — system, secure
our border, provide a pathway for citizenship for DREAMers, and a lot
more.  And I’m still fighting to get that done. 

But we must face a simple truth: To protect America as a land that
welcomes immigrants, we must first secure the border and secure it
now.   
  
The simple truth is there is a worldwide migrant crisis, and if the
United States doesn’t secure our border, there is no limit to the number
of people who may try to come here, because there is no better place on
the planet than the United States of America. 

For those who say the steps I’ve taken are too strict, I say to you that
— be patient, and good will of the American people are going to we- —
are wearing thin right now.  Doing nothing is not an option.  We have to
act.  We must act consistent with both our law and our values — our
value as Americans. 

I take these steps today not to walk away from we — who we are as
Americans but to make sure we preserve who we are for future generations
to come.   
  
Today, I have spoken about what we need to do to secure the border.  In
the weeks ahead — and I mean the weeks ahead — I will speak to how we
can make our immigration system more fair and more just. 

Let’s fix the problem and stop fighting about it.  I’m doing my part. 
We’re doing our part.  Congressional Republicans should do their part. 

Thank you very much.

(Cross-talk.)  
  
(Addressing participants.)  Welcome to Washington.

(Cross-talk.)

I’ll talk to you later.

(Cross-talk.)  
  
Q    Mr. President, is Netanyahu playing politics with the war?

THE PRESIDENT:  What was that?

Q    I asked, sir: Is Prime Minister Netanyahu playing politics with the
war?

THE PRESIDENT:  I don’t think so.  He’s trying to work out a serious
problem he has.   
  
Thank you. 

2:29 P.M. EDT
