---
date: '2024-06-04'
modified_time: 2024-06-04 16:36:49-04:00
published_time: 2024-06-04 16:36:48-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/06/04/background-press-call-by-senior-administration-officials-on-additional-actions-to-secure-the-borderbackground-press-call-by-senior-administration-officials/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Background Press Call by Senior Administration Officials on Additional Actions\
  \ to Secure the BorderBackground Press Call by Senior Administration\_Officials"
---
 
Via Teleconference

9:03 A.M. EDT

MODERATOR:  Good morning, everyone, and thank you for joining our
embargoed background press call regarding additional actions the
President is announcing today to secure our border.  As a reminder, the
call will begin with remarks that will be attributable to “senior
administration officials” and will be followed by a question-and-answer
session.

The contents of the call and the related materials you all should have
received over email are embargoed until 12:00 p.m. noon today. 

With that, we will go ahead and get started.  And I will turn it over to
\[senior administration official\].

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Good morning, everyone.

Since his first day in office, President Biden has called on Congress to
secure our border and address our broken immigration system.  And over
the past three years, Congress has failed to act.

Just last month, congressional Republicans again put partisan politics
ahead of our national security and voted against a historic bipartisan
border security agreement that would deliver key policy changes and
critical resources to our border.

With Congress failing to act, illegal crossings at our border remain too
high for our system to effectively manage.

In the face of this, President Biden will announce executive actions to
bar migrants who cross our Southern border unlawfully from receiving
asylum.

These actions will be in effect when high levels of encounters at the
Southern border exceed our ability to deliver timely consequences, as is
the case today.  They will make it easier for immigration officials to
remove those who are here unlawfully and reduce the burden on our Border
Patrol agents.

These actions build on weeks and months of actions the Biden-Harris
administration has taken to secure our border and fix our broken
immigration system.

Over the past months we have expanded efforts to dismantle human
smuggling operations that bring migrants through Central America and
across our Southern border, including by deploying additional
prosecutors and support staff to increase immigration-related
prosecutions in crucial border U.S. attorney’s offices.

We’ve published a proposed rule to ensure that migrants who pose a
public safety or national security risk are removed as quickly in the
process as possible rather than remaining in prolonged detention prior
to removal.

We announced the launch of a Recent Arrivals Docket to more quickly
resolve a portion of immigration cases for migrants who attempt to cross
between ports of entry, allowing us to more quickly remove individuals
who do not have a legal basis to be in the United States and grant
protection to those with a valid claim.

We have revoked visas for CEOs and government officials throughout the
region who profit from migrants trying to come to the United States
unlawfully.

We have surged agents to the Southern border and are referring a record
number people into expedited removal.  Since May 2023, we have removed
or returned more people than every fiscal year since 2010.

I will turn it over to \[senior administration official\] in a minute to
further explain today’s actions, but let me finish with this: Everyone
should be clear that all of the actions that I’ve just described cannot
achieve the same result as the bipartisan security agreement that
congressional Republicans rejected.  These actions do not provide the
additional critical personnel and funding or reforms needed to further
secure our border.  Congress still must act.

With that, I’ll turn it over to \[senior administration official\]. 

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thank you, \[senior administration
official\]. 

Today, the administration is taking decisive action designed to
strengthen the security of our Southern border and reduce unlawful
migration by suspending the entry of individuals across the Southern
border.

The measures we’re announcing today build on the steps we’ve taken over
the last three years designed to reduce irregular migration and bolster
the security of our border, including record deployments of personnel,
infrastructure, and technology; strengthened consequences through the
Circumvention of Lawful Pathways Rule; and, of course, the historic
expansion of lawful pathways for migrants who are willing to wait and
use them.

Today’s announcement includes a series of measures that will
significantly increase consequences for those who cross the Southern
border unlawfully or without authorization.  And I’m going to go through
those consequences right now.

As everybody knows, this — President Biden is issuing a presidential
proclamation that will temporarily suspend the entry of non-citizens
across the Southern border.  The Secretary of Homeland Security and the
Attorney General are jointly issuing an interim final rule that,
consistent with the proclamation, will generally restrict asylum
eligibility during periods of elevated order encounters.  For those who
cross the Southern border unlawfully or without authorization, and that
includes both our Southwest land border as well as our Southern coastal
borders.

The rule makes three key changes to current processing under Title 8
immigration authorities during these periods of high order encounters. 
First, individuals who cross the Southern border unlawfully or without
authorization will generally be ineligible for asylum, absent
exceptionally compelling circumstances, unless they are excepted by the
proclamation.  

Second, noncitizens who cross the Southern border and are processed for
expedited removal while the proclamation is in effect will only be
referred for a credible fear screening with an asylum officer if they
manifest or express a fear of return to their country or country of
removal, a fear of persecution or torture, or an intention to apply for
asylum. 

Third, the United States will continue to adhere to its international
obligations and commitments by screening individuals who are found to be
ineligible for asylum for withholding of removal and Convention Against
Torture protections at a reasonable probability of persecution or
torture standard — a new, substantially higher standard than is
currently being applied at the border. 

Like the proclamation, the rule provides for an end to these enhanced
measures following a sustained reduction in encounters along our
Southern border.  Specifically, these measures will be in effect until
14 calendar days after the Secretary determines that there has been a
seven-consecutive-calendar-day average of less than 1,500 encounters in
between ports of entry along our Southern border.  These measures would
once again go into effect or continue when there has been a
determination that the seven-consecutive-calendar-day average has
exceeded 2,500 encounters or more.

While active, the proclamation and the rule will apply, again, across
the Southern border, which, as I mentioned earlier, includes both the
Southwest land border and our Southern coastal borders.

Taken together, these measures will significantly increase the speed and
the scope of consequences for those who cross unlawfully or without
authorization and allow the departments to more quickly remove
individuals who do not establish a legal basis to remain in the United
States.

As I mentioned, there are some exceptions to the proclamation, and that
includes lawful permanent residents, unaccompanied children, victims of
a severe form of trafficking, those who face an acute medical emergency
or an imminent and extreme threat to life and safety, and other
noncitizens who have a valid visa or some other lawful permission to
enter the United States.

And importantly, the suspension and limitation on entry and rule will
not apply to individuals who use a safe and orderly process, such as the
CBP One mobile application, to enter the United States at a port of
entry in an orderly manner or who pursue another lawful pathway to come
to the United States.

Individuals who are subject to the limit on asylum eligibility
promulgated by today’s rule and who do not establish a reasonable
probability of persecution or torture in their country of removal will
be promptly removed and they will be subject to at least a five-year bar
to reentry and potential criminal prosecution.

These steps will strengthen the asylum system, preventing it from being
overwhelmed and backed up by those who do not have legitimate claims. 

I’d like to conclude by reiterating what \[senior administration
official\] said.  The presidential proclamation together with the
interim final rule present another important step in our more than three
years of ongoing efforts to strengthen our ability to impose
consequences on those who cross our Southern border. 

But we are clear-eyed that today’s executive actions are no substitute
for Congress taking up and passing the tough but fair bipartisan Senate
bill, which would have significantly strengthened the consequences in
place at the border and, equally important, have provided billions of
dollars to support the men and women who are working on the frontlines
to secure our border.

Thank you.  And with that, I’ll pass the microphone to \[senior
administration official\].

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thank you so much, \[senior
administration official\], and good morning, everyone.

It’s been 27 years since Congress last passed comprehensive immigration
reform.  The 1996 immigration reform law and, for that matter, the 1986
immigration reform law were overwhelmingly bipartisan. 

Indeed, the party of Lincoln, Reagan, and the Bushes has a proud history
of supporting a balanced approach to immigration. 

President Reagan proudly noted that, quote, “We ne- — we lead the world
because, unique among nations, we draw our strength from every country
and corner of the world.”  

We are witnessing the largest wave of global migration since World War
Two.  It is affecting nations around the globe.  Unfortunately, at a
moment when we desperately need to summon the bipartisanship in Congress
that was there in ‘86 and ‘96, the party of Lincoln, Reagan, and Bush
has been replaced by all too many Republicans who would rather weaponize
problems than fix them. 

Fortunately, across the country, there are elected officials —
Republicans, Democrats, and independents — who share President Biden’s
strongly held belief that we must have smart, balanced approaches to
immigration that recognize that we are indeed a nation of laws and a
nation of immigrants.

As Pres- — as the President announces his executive actions, he will, in
fact, be accompanied by a number of these elected officials who share
his desire to fix our broken system.

Most of the people joining us today are from the border.  They’re
working on these issues day in and day out.  And like the President,
they want balanced solutions.

Let’s take a step back.  As \[senior administration official\] and
\[senior administration official\] have outlined, the President worked
with a bipartisan group of senators to reach a historic border security
agreement — an agreement that would have delivered significant policy
changes, resources, and personnel necessary to secure our border and
make our country safer.  And that would have made the asylum process
fairer and more efficient while ensuring protection for the most
vulnerable.

Congressional Republicans had an opportunity to support the fairest and
toughest set of reforms in decades, and they chose to put partisan
political interests ahead of fixing our immigration system and securing
our borders.

Twice they voted against additional border and immigration personnel. 
Twice they voted against additional technology to catch illicit fentanyl
at ports of entry.  Twice they voted against more asylum officers and
immigration judges so cases can be resolved in months and not years.

Congressional Republicans have proven that they do not care about
securing our border because, frankly, if they did, they would have
supported the bipartisan agreement.

As \[senior administration official\] and \[senior administration
official\] have outlined, today’s actions are designed to bar
individuals who cross the Southern border unlawfully from receiving
asylum.  It is important to note that unlike the previous
administration, the Biden-Harris administration has led the largest
expansion of lawful immigration pathways in decades.

This includes innovative programs, such as the parole processes for
Cuban, Haitian, Nicaraguan, and Venezuelan nationals; the use of CBP One
for noncitizens seeking to present at a port of entry; the establishment
of Safe Mobility Offices across the hemisphere where people seeking
assistance can be placed into a lawful immigration pathway without
having to make the perilous journey, without having to pay smugglers. 
These programs remain in place.

We have also rebuilt our Refugee Admissions Program and are on track to
resettle the most people in 30 years.

The President also spearheaded an effort to bring together 22 countries
from across the Western Hemisphere to join the Los Angeles Declaration
for Migration and Protection.  This is an effort to foster regional
cooperation around migration and a way for countries to work together to
manage this challenge.

We will continue, for instance, to work together with the Mexican
authorities during the presidential transition.  We have worked very
closely on this bilateral relationship.

All of these policies are in stark contrast to how the previous
administration managed immigration.  They demonized immigrants,
instituted mass raids, separated families at the border, and put kids in
cages.  Their violation — their policies went against our values as a
nation.

The American people have told what they want.  They want a secure border
and lawful immigration opportunities for those to come to America who
will indeed enrich our country, as President Reagan so eloquently noted.

President Biden remains committed to working to fix our broken
immigration system and ensuring that America can continue to be the
beacon of hope and opportunity that it is and will always be.

With that, I’ll turn it back over to \[moderator\] for Q&A.

MODERATOR:  Thank you, \[senior administration official\] and \[senior
administration official\] and \[senior administration official\].

With that, we will begin Q&A.  As a reminder, this will also be on
background and attributable to “senior administration officials.”   
  
As you, I think, all can see, there is lots of interest.  So, if you
could please, please keep your questions to one per outlet, we will try
to go through as many questions as we can.   
  
With that, we will start with Sara.  You should be unmuted now.  
  
Q    Hey, it’s actually Camilo.  I’m using Sara — my colleague’s
account.  But my question is: Can you explain whether you will plan to
process extra-continental migrants, like Chinese migrants, under the new
measures and, if so, whether Mexico has agreed to take back additional
nationalities, like migrants who are deemed to be ineligible for asylum
under these new measures?  Thank you.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Hi, Camilo.  The rules measures will
apply to any individual who is encountered crossing unlawfully along the
southern border or without authorization.  And so, that will apply both
to individuals from our hemisphere as well as extra-hemispheric
migrants.   
  
In terms of returns to Mexico, we will continue to return nationals of
Cuba, Haiti, Nicaragua, and Venezuela per our previous arrangement. 
Thank you.

  
MODERATOR:  Thanks, \[senior administration official\].  We will go to
Luke next.  You should be unmuted now.

  
Q    Hey, guys.  Thanks for doing this.  What do you say to the advocacy
community that has said they will sue if this EO, as we had reported in
the past couple of days, is implemented, which it obviously is now? 
What do you say to them?  And how would you defend this EO in court,
given some of the past EOs in prior administrations still being held up
in court?

  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks for your question, Luke.  We
have made some important humanitarian and legal changes to the
implementation of this authority in the past.  And we fully expect that
we will be able to implement these actions.  This is — the humanitarian
exceptions were outlined in \[senior administration official’s\]
remarks.  And we have important exceptions for individuals entering
through lawful pathways, important humanitarian exceptions for
individuals that are facing — I’m sorry, that are entering through
lawful pathways and under other humanitarian exceptions in the
implementation of the rule in the proclamation.   
  
And I will also invite my colleague from DOJ to say a few remarks if she
would like to.

  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks, \[senior administration
official\].  I’ll just add that DOJ defends lawsuits, rules, and actions
on a regular basis, and we are prepared for any litigation on this rule
as well.

  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  And if I may add one thing.  I think we
are accustomed to being litigated, frankly, from both sides of the
political spectrum for just about any measure we take in this space, and
that is just yet another sign that there is no lasting solution to the
challenges we are facing without Congress doing its job.

  
MODERATOR:  Thank you, \[senior administration official\].  We will go
to Gabe next.  You should be unmuted now.

  
Q    Hey there, Angelo.  Thank you.  Thank you all for doing this.   
  
With regards to the humanitarian exceptions that you — that you outline,
what do you say to critics who say that that will lead to child
trafficking, specifically the exception for minors?  
  
And then one other — one other question, if I may.  Can you confirm just
how you arrived at that 2,500 number?  And would this go into effect
immediately since we’re now over 2,500 encounters?  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Hi.  In terms of the exception for
unaccompanied children, I would just note that under our laws, we have
been treating unaccompanied children differently now for many years. 
And, you know, that will not change as a result of these measures.  And
obviously, we are always vigilant when it comes to any exploitation of
children, who are — obviously represent a very vulnerable
demographic.   
  
\[Senior administration official\], I don’t know if you want to take the
second part of that question.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  We do expect that the authority would
be in effect immediately.  And I will also add to \[senior
administration official’s\] response that this administration, President
Biden has led an historic opening of lawful pathways for individuals to
— and including families — to enter the United States through a lawful
process, including the CBP One mobile application to request an
appointment to present at a port of entry, as well as family
reunification programs in countries throughout the region and a historic
parole process for Cubans, Haitians, Nicaraguans, and Venezuelans.   
  
And so, this measure is — the authorities that are — that are being
implemented that we’re announcing today come alongside those lawful
pathways.

  
MODERATOR:  Thank you.  We will go to Seung Min next.  You should be
unmuted now.

  
Q    All right.  Thank you so much for holding this call.  I just wanted
to — since you guys are talking about using Title 8 authority, can you
just outline just how fast the deportations would happen, how long these
people would be detained before they’re removed?  If they would be
detained, do you have the money to even do the detentions?  And also,
how you deal with the legal constraints of detaining families?

  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Sure, I can start us off.  
  
I will say that, obviously, the measures we are announcing today fall
squarely within our Title 8 authorities.  Individuals who do not
manifest a fear will be immediately removable.  And so, we anticipate
that will significantly speed the current process for individuals who do
not manifest a fear.  
  
Individuals who do manifest a fear will be processed as we always do
under our Title 8 authorities through the expedited removal process. 
And we have made significant process improvements over the last year
that have, you know, allowed us to move people through the expedited
removal process faster than we’ve ever been able to before.   
  
However, as \[senior administration official\] and I both noted in our
opening remarks, we are constrained by the resources that have been
provided to the departments by Congress, resources that have been
inadequate to face the challenges we have been facing the last few
years.  
  
We have repeatedly asked Congress for emergency supplemental funding to
allow us to enhance and increase our ability to deliver consequences at
the border.  And, unfortunately, Congress has failed to act on those
requests.

  
MODERATOR:  Thank you.  We will go to Josh next.  You should be unmuted
now.

  
Q    Hey, there.  Thank you so much for doing this.  Just to follow up
on Seung Min’s question, are these removals — are we talking days or
weeks?  Can you just help us get a sense of how quickly that would kick
in?  
  
And you mentioned the changes to the credible fear threshold.  I’m
wondering if you can just dive into that a little bit more, how you’re
going to assess these cases and who goes through a screening and who
doesn’t.  Thank you.

  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Sure.  Again, individuals who do not
manifest a fear will be immediately removable, and we anticipate that we
will be removing those individuals in a matter of days, if not hours.  
  
I think individuals who do manifest a fear and are ineligible for asylum
as a result of the rules measures will be screened for our international
obligations under withholding of removal and the Convention Against
Torture at a “reasonable probability” standard, which will be a
substantially higher standard than the “significant possibility”
standard that is being used today, while still somewhat below the
ultimate merits standard of “more likely than not.”   
  
But I think the bottom line is that the standard will be significantly
higher.  And so, we do anticipate that fewer individuals will be
screened in as a result.  
  
MODERATOR:  Thank you.  We will go to Michelle next.  You should be
unmuted now.

  
Michelle?  
  
All right.  We will move to Ted.  You should be unmuted now.  
  
Q    Hi, all.  I’d like to ask you again about the extra-continental
migrants.  It wasn’t clear to me: Is Mexico planning to accept them
back?  Or are you planning to deport them to their home countries?  And
if so, you know, how do you plan to do that?  
  
I mean, as you describe it, it sounds like — almost like a two-track
system where Mexicans and Central Americans could be quickly removed but
where others potentially could just be released into the U.S.  
  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Sure.  Thanks for that question. 
Extra-hemispheric migrants have always been a challenge.  They will be
subject to this rules provisions.  We have been working tirelessly both
in the region and throughout the world to enhance — to both restrict the
routes into the hemisphere for extra-hemispheric migrants — and \[senior
administration official\] mentioned some of those steps in her remarks —
and we’ve also been working with governments all over the world to
enhance our ability to repatriate individuals to countries that have
historically been challenging.   
  
We have, for example, operated repatriation flights to India, to China,
to Uzbekistan, to Mauritania, to Senegal over the last few months.  And
those are all countries that historically would have been much more
challenging for us to return individuals to.  And we anticipate we will
continue to enhance our ability to return migrants to the eastern
hemisphere.   
  
And so, we do think that the rules measures will allow us to impose an
immediate and fast consequence to migrants no matter what country
they’re coming from.

  
MODERATOR:  Thanks, \[senior administration official\].  We will go to
Beatrice next.  You should be unmuted now.  
  
Bea?  
  
Okay.  We will go to Priscilla next.  You should be unmuted now.  
  
Q    Hi, all.  Thanks for doing the call.  Just to delve a little deeper
into how you will operationalize this, how — how do you foresee the
situation changing along the border now versus a few days ago when this
goes into effect?  
  
In other words, if we are seeing extra-continental migrants, how will it
ease the — the system the way that you all have described?

  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks, Priscilla.  I can start, and,
\[senior administration official\], please feel free to jump in.   
  
We have seen consistently over the last few years that when we have the
ability to remove individuals quickly, it can significantly impact
migratory flows by changing the calculus for intending migrants. 
Especially if they know that they are going to be removed quickly and
not be able to remain in the United States for many years through their
immigration court process, they’re going to be much less likely to pay
the thousands of dollars that it’s required to the smuggling networks
that more or less control access to the routes leading up to our
border.   
  
And so, we do anticipate and intend that the measures we’re announcing
today will impact on lawful migration to our border.   
  
As I noted, there are countries that are more challenging in terms of
removals.  We are working with those countries in order to facilitate
our ability to increase removals.  And as I also noted, we will continue
to return nationals of Cuba, Haiti, Nicaragua, Venezuela to Mexico per —
as we have been doing now for quite a while.  Thank you.

  
MODERATOR:  Thank you.  We will go to Pedro next.  You should be unmuted
now.

  
Q    Thanks for doing this.  I wanted to find out if the rule is going
to be taking effect today or tomorrow, and if there is any public
hearing that might hold the application of the rule.  Thank you so much,
again.

  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Sure.  The rule will go into effect
later today.  And so, that — you know, we anticipate, again, those
measures will be implemented forthwith.  
  
Defer to my colleague from the Department of Justice in terms of any
potential litigation.

  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks, \[senior administration
official\].  While the rule may be challenged, as was the case with the
Circumvention of Lawful Pathways regulation, we look forward to
defending the IFR as the — as any litigation that might be filed
progresses in the next few days.   
  
MODERATOR:  Thank you.  We will go to Alexandra next.  You should be
unmuted now.

  
Q    Hello.  Thank you so much for doing this.  So, the first question I
have is, I want to know if — and you said that you are going to continue
collaborating with Mexico.  I wanted to know if Mexico has agreed to
take in more migrants daily and then what that number is they — people
who have — they have agreed to take in.  
  
And then, the second question I have is: What do you have to say about
criticism of this type of measures from organizations that claim that
this puts migrants in danger and then also could lead to people who have
legitimate claim of asylums being deported back to their countries but
they might face danger?  Thank you so much.

  
SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Hi, Alexandra.  Mexico has been a
really strong partner in our efforts to control migratory flows
throughout the hemisphere and also in our efforts to expand access to
lawful pathways and to address the root causes of migration throughout
the hemisphere.   
  
At this point, you know, we will continue, as I have noted a couple
times, to return nationals of Cuba, Haiti, Nicaragua, and Venezuela to
Mexico as we have been doing for quite a long time.  And obviously, we
will continue to repatriate Mexican nationals to Mexico as well.   
  
In terms of the second part of your question, welcome others to weigh in
as well.  But I will just say that we are confident that the steps we
are taking today are consistent with our obligations under international
law, and we will take all the appropriate measures in order to guard
against the potential (inaudible).  Thank you.

MODERATOR:  Thanks.  We will go to Stef next.  You should be unmuted
now.

Q    Thanks for holding this.  We’ve spoken to officials and obviously
see that the border numbers have actually been declining, have remained
relatively stable over the past few months.  Curious if you would be
able to provide any insight into why this is being rolled out now.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  I’m happy to take that.  Thank you for
the question.  So, as you’re tracking, two weeks ago, Republicans in
Congress once again voted against the toughest enforcement reforms in
history.  Time and again, they’ve stood against securing our border and
put politics over providing our border personnel the resources they
need.

With Congress failing to act and in the face of the summer months, when
we typically see encounters increase, we — the — and at a time when
unlawful crossings at our border are still too high for immigration
officials to manage, President Biden is announcing these measures today
to secure our border. 

And if Congress refuses to act or congressional Republicans refuse to
act, the President is prepared to do so.

MODERATOR:  Thanks.  We will go to Zolan next.  You should be unmuted
now.

Q    Thanks so much for the question.  Just one clarification.  Maybe I
missed this.  I — someone asked this earlier, but I don’t think it was
answered directly.  Just can you explain the reasoning behind the
trigger of 2,500 daily average encounters?  I think there was
conversation that might have been 4,000 before.  I guess, how would you
respond to the criticism that that number is — was essentially found so
that you can just shut it down now, you know, with the level of
crossings where they are now? 

And then, secondly, can you just comment on the criticism that this
echoes a Trump administration effort in 2018 to use 212(f) to shut down
the border.  The President obviously criticized Trump during the
campaign and said that he was one of the first presidents to force
migrants to apply for asylum in other countries.  It seems like this is
similar.  Thanks.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Thanks.  The triggers are similar to
what was negotiated by Republicans and Democrats in the Senate
bipartisan bill.  The goal here is to secure our border while preserving
legal immigration, consistent with our values as a nation.  And even if
the numbers dip below 1,500, we will still be enforcing our immigration
laws and removing those that don’t have a lawful basis to be here.

And to your second question — and I’ll invite \[senior administration
official\] here to jump in as well — there are several differences
between the actions that we are taking today and Trump-era policies. 
The Trump administration attacked almost every facet of the immigration
system and did so in a shameful and inhumane way, in ways that \[senior
administration official\] outlined in his opening remarks.

The actions that we are taking today will only apply during times of
high encounters.  The proclamation would only apply to individuals
entering the U.S. unlawfully at ports of entry and between ports of
entry while exempting lawful entries through appointments — through
appointments at ports of entry.  And other exceptions include
unaccompanied children, victims of trafficking. 

The action will not ban people based on their religion.  It will not
separate kids from their mothers.  There are also narrow humanitarian
exceptions to the bar on asylum, including for those facing an acute
medical emergency or an imminent and extreme threat to life or safety. 
And the Trump administration’s actions did not include these exceptions.

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Yeah, let me follow up on \[senior
administration official’s\] accurate statement.  I mean, the Biden
administration has now reunited roughly 800 families who were separated
under the Trump administration.  We will not separate children from
their families.  It is not only inhumane, it’s grossly ineffective.  It
didn’t stop the flows at all.  So, it was illegal, unconscionable, and
ineffective.

Again, the humanitarian exceptions that \[senior administration
official\] referenced for unaccompanied minors and victims of
trafficking are very real.  And, again, it’s important for folks to
understand that this President has done more to create lawful pathways
for people entering this country than any president in decades. 

Thirty thousand people a month are coming in through the CHNV program. 
The — 1,400 people a day are coming in through the CBP One app.  No
previous administration has applied technology in this manner to
facilitate such a predictable and orderly process. 

The President has used diplomacy in ways that have been remarkable.  You
know, the Los Angeles Declaration on Migration and Protection was a
declaration with 22 governments.  We understand that we have to work in
concert with our allies in the region and around the globe who share our
values.

And so, there are a lot of differences between where we are today and —
and Donald Trump. 

And what is as frustrating as anything for President Biden is it doesn’t
have to be this way.  I mentioned in my remarks about the fact that it’s
been 27 years since we had immigration reform.  I’ll point out for folks
that the 1996 bill was passed in the middle of a presidential election
in a divided Congress.  At that point in time, people understood that
immigration shouldn’t become a political football, that we should put
country over party. 

The reason we don’t have the bipartisan bill today is very simple:
Because the other administration — the prior administration’s person
said, “Don’t do it.  Don’t give Joe Biden a victory.”  That’s not how we
should run a country.

And so, that is unfortunate.  And an election year should not prohibit
us from getting the people’s work done.

MODERATOR:  Thanks, \[senior administration official\].  We’ll have time
for about two more questions. 

With that, Nick, you should be unmuted now.  Nick?  (Inaudible.)

Q    Can you hear me?  I’m here, I’m here, I’m here.

MODERATOR:  Yep.  There you go.

Q    Sorry about that.  You guys have said many times that families
aren’t exempt from consequences, but this administration doesn’t
obviously refer families to ERO detention.  So, how do you plan to
remove the families who are going to be ineligible under this rule?  Are
you going to — are you going to hold them in CBP custody?  And what is
the appropriate amount of time that a family unit should remain in CBP
custody, given your obligations under the Flores settlement?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Hey, I can take that.  Hi, Nick.  We
have been removing families consistently now for many years, and that
will not change as a result of these measures.  If anything, I think
this will enhance, as I noted, our ability to remove individuals who we
encounter quickly, and that includes families.

We have, as I think you know, been removing families directly from CBP
custody.  And we have also been removing record numbers of family from
the interior who are referred to our Family Expedited Removal Management
process as well.

And so, you know, we anticipate that this rule, as we have discussed,
will enhance our ability to impose consequences both for single adults
and for families.  And we will do this in a way that is fully compliant
with our obligations under the Flores settlement.

MODERATOR:  Thanks.  And our last question will go to Cristina.  You
should be unmuted now.

Q    Yeah, hi.  Thank you for taking my question.  I just want to see if
you can walk me through what the process would be if somebody from
Honduras, Guatemala, Ecuador gets to the border, says that they’re
fearing for their lives.  Who interviews them?  How long would it take
to determine if they’re legitimate or not?  And how long would it take
before they get either deported or allowed to continue with the process?

SENIOR ADMINISTRATION OFFICIAL:  Sure.  I think, under your scenario,
when we encounter an individual at the border under the rule’s
implementation, you know, they will be processed as we typically process
individuals.  And we will fingerprint them.  We will make sure that
there are no national security or public safety threats that we are
aware of about that individual.

If the individual does not manifest a fear, they will be very quickly
removable.   If they do manifest a fear, they will be referred to a
credible fear interview by an asylum officer.  Those interviews could
happen both in CBP custody or in an ICE detention facility. 

During those interviews, if the individual, again, is subject to the
proclamation, the rule, which means they are ineligible for asylum —
they have not been excepted from the rule — they will be screened for
our international obligations under withholding of removal and the
Convention Against Torture at the reasonable probability standard, which
is higher than the reasonable possibility standard that is currently
being applied at the border.

Individuals who are found not to have a credible fear of persecution or
torture in their home country or their country of removal as a result of
that screening will be removed as quickly as we can effectuate that
removal.

As I noted earlier, we have undertaken a series of process enhancements
over the last two years that have significantly reduced the amount of
time it takes us to get someone through that expedited removal, credible
fear process.

Historically, from 2014 to 2019, it took about nine weeks to get someone
through that process.  And we are currently doing it in less than half
that time and continue — and we’ll continue to try to streamline the
process.  Thank you.

MODERATOR:  Thank you.  And that is all the time we have today.  Thank
you so much for co- — thank you so much for calling and for joining the
call.

As a reminder, the embargo on the call and the materials that you will
receive will be 12:00 p.m. Eastern.  Thank you so much.

   9:46 A.M. EDT
