---
date: '2024-06-24'
modified_time: 2024-06-25 11:59:52-04:00
published_time: 2024-06-24 23:59:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/06/24/remarks-by-national-security-advisor-to-the-vice-president-dr-phil-gordon-at-the-herzliya-conference/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Remarks by National Security Advisor to the Vice President Dr. Phil Gordon\
  \ at the Herzliya\_Conference"
---
 
*Herzliya, Israel*

It is my pleasure to be here to speak about the U.S.-Israel partnership,
and how things look from Washington.

We all know the past 8 and a half months have been an extraordinarily
difficult time.  There are still not words to describe the horrors of
Hamas’s brutal massacre of 1200 people on October 7 — or of the taking
of 250 innocent hostages and unthinkable acts of sexual violence. 

And the war triggered by that attack has had devastating consequences. 
Tens of thousands of Palestinian civilians, including women and
children, have been killed—and humanitarian conditions for the people of
Gaza, where the majority of the population has been displaced, remain
dire.

In Israel, almost 200,000 Israelis have had to evacuate their homes, and
many have yet to return. 

In addition: Just over two months ago, Iran launched an unprecedented
direct attack on Israeli territory.  Houthi militants and Shia militia
groups continue to strike at Israeli and other targets.  Hezbollah
attacks Israel regularly across its northern border, and Israel is
responding. 

Meanwhile, Israel is facing growing international criticism and pressure
from the United Nations and other international bodies.  Vocal segments
of the American public have spoken out against the war in Gaza. As a
result, over the past eight and a half months the U.S.-Israel
partnership has been tested, perhaps as never before.

It has been a profoundly trying time for all.  But I need not remind
everyone here: the U.S.-Israel partnership has always faced challenges. 
There have been many difficulties – even crises – in our shared history
– and we have survived all of them, together.  And while it will require
work on both sides, there is no reason why this time needs to be
different.

Indeed, notwithstanding all the very real challenges and tests I have
mentioned, I believe there is a positive path forward for Israel, the
United States, and our strategic partnership. 

And that is what I want to talk about today – not the risks and problems
we all know but the possibility of a more hopeful path forward, for
Israel, U.S.-Israeli relations, and the people of the region. 

The path to a more hopeful future starts with the ceasefire deal spelled
out by President Biden on May 31, based on Israel’s proposal.  That
proposal offers the opportunity to end the war in Gaza in a way such
that Israel is secure; all the hostages are returned; Hamas no longer
governs Gaza; and the Palestinian people have a hopeful political
horizon to freedom, security, and an eventual state living side by side
with Israel in peace. 

You are familiar with the terms of this proposal but they are worth
repeating: Phase 1 would be a 6-week full and complete ceasefire;
withdrawal of Israeli forces from population centers; and the release of
hostages, including women, the elderly, and the wounded.  In this time,
Palestinian civilians could return to their homes, and humanitarian
assistance would surge.

During this period, there would also be negotiations for Phase 2 – a
permanent cessation of hostilities.  During the second phase, there
would be an exchange for the release of all remaining living hostages,
including male soldiers; and Israel would withdraw from all of Gaza. 

Then in Phase 3, a major reconstruction plan for Gaza would begin, and
any additional hostage remains would be returned.

Now, as President Biden has said, we know there are some in Israel who
do not support this proposal, opposing a ceasefire even if that means
de-prioritizing the release of the hostages.  We strongly disagree. 

A rejection of this deal would not bring about some undefined version of
“total victory,” but would lead to endless conflict, draining Israel’s
resources, contributing to its global isolation, and preventing the
hostages from being reunited with their families.  By contrast,
implementation of the deal brings the hostages home, and opens up the
pathway to the more hopeful future we all need. 

Since President Biden made this proposal public, we have rallied the
world to support it.  The UN Security Council passed a resolution
endorsing it.  G7 nations have all endorsed it.  As have many Middle
Eastern countries and the 16 countries that have citizens still held
hostage in Gaza.

It is now time for Hamas to accept the deal.  And let’s be clear: By
refusing to do so, Hamas is responsible for the ongoing suffering of so
many Palestinians.  The deal Israel offered at the end of May was almost
identical to what Hamas proposed on May 6, and in many ways Hamas is
walking away from its own offer. 

While disappointing that Hamas took so long to respond and has proposed
additional amendments beyond its original position, we will continue to
work relentlessly to get to that agreement and to close the gaps, and we
are grateful for the efforts of Qatar and Egypt to help do so.

And we should not give up hope for getting a deal even as we press Hamas
to agree, Israel can help with that.

As Israel completes major operations in Rafah in the days and weeks
ahead, and if it delivers on its promise to reduce civilian casualties
and surge more humanitarian assistance, not only will that relieve the
suffering of the Palestinian people…it will deprive Hamas leader Yahya
Sinwar of the death and destruction he cynically counts on for leverage
against Israel. 

Don’t forget – Sinwar wants to see Israel isolated in the world, wants
to bring in regional actors against Israel, and wants to divide Israel
from the United States.  A transition to lower intensity military
operations and an improvement in the humanitarian situation in Gaza
would deprive him of all of these goals, as well as of the fantasy that
the longer he holds out the more leverage he has.  We need to make
Sinwar realize time is not on his side, and that the deal is one he
should accept. 

Let me also say a word about what this deal could mean for Israel and
the region.

Fully implementing this deal— with an end to the fighting in Gaza,
followed by a serious commitment to governance, reconstruction and
security — would bring desperately needed relief to the civilian
population of Gaza and allow the people there to begin a process of
recovery.  But it would also deliver enormous political and security
benefits to the State of Israel and the Israeli people.

First, it would significantly increase the possibility of securing calm
along Israel’s northern border with Lebanon, which would allow tens of
thousands of Israelis to finally return to their homes. We have been
working relentlessly to deter Hezbollah from a major attack on Israel
since the early days of this conflict.  As you know, President Biden
sent two aircraft carrier groups to the region and has strongly warned
Hezbollah against intervention. 

To be clear, we utterly reject the Iranian and Hezbollah linkage between
continued fighting in the north and a ceasefire in Gaza.  We believe
de-escalation is possible and necessary now and that is what are working
towards. But we also know that a ceasefire and hostage deal would put
pressure on Hezbollah to end its reckless cross-border attacks — helping
to diminish the risk of escalation in the north.

A sustainable ceasefire in Gaza would also reduce the risk of escalation
on other fronts.  Since early on in the Gaza conflict, the Houthis in
Yemen have been attacking commercial shipping in the Red Sea – reckless,
illegal behavior that does nothing for the people of Gaza while causing
enormous harm elsewhere.

The United States will continue to degrade Houthi capabilities and seek
to deter future attacks until this outrageous behavior ends.  A return
to calm in Gaza would deny the Houthis their self-proclaimed
justification for these attacks and help reduce the risk of escalation
on this front as well – as it would the risk of attacks from Shia
militia groups in Syria and Iraq.   

Perhaps most important, an end to the war in Gaza — and a commitment to
a serious and credible Palestinian political horizon — would also allow
Israel to secure a potential historic normalization agreement with Saudi
Arabia – and ultimately the entire Muslim world.  This would be an
extraordinary boon for the Israeli economy – opening new economic ties
for Israel’s start-ups, travel and tourism, educational exchanges, and
more.

And even more important it would help make Israel safer.  It would allow
Israel to be part of a regional security network, with the support of
the United States, to counter the threat posed by Iran. 

We saw the potential for this in mid-April, when Iran launched an
unprecedented direct attack on Israel, and a coalition of nations,
including the United States and our regional partners, helped Israel
defeat that attack.  That episode underscored the reality of the threat
Israel faces from Iran, but was also a striking preview of what is
possible when Israel becomes more integrated with the region. 

The path to this brighter future is possible, but to return to where I
started, it begins with a sustainable end to the war in Gaza in a way
that leaves Israel secure, brings the hostages home, removes Hamas from
power, and ensures a path to Palestinian dignity, freedom,
self-determination, and security. 

The reality is that there is no enduring defeat of Hamas without a
credible governance and security alternative in Gaza – as we in the
United States learned the hard way from our experiences in Iraq and
Afghanistan. 

With the end of fighting, we can create a unified international and
regional coalition to support Palestinian governance, rebuild Gaza, and
ensure that Hamas cannot regain power. As we do that, we will put in
place strict measures – including on the border between Egypt and Gaza –
to ensure Hamas and other terrorists cannot re-arm. 

I know it is hard to think of peace negotiations at this moment.  I
understand the mutual distrust that Israelis and Palestinians have
towards each other after years of conflict and failed peace processes;
The United States is certainly not asking Israel to sacrifice its
security or immediately come to an agreement on two-states. 

But we cannot give up on that ultimate goal, and we oppose steps — such
as settlement expansion, settler violence and other destabilizing
activities on the West Bank — that are counterproductive to peace and
make that goal more difficult to achieve. 

President Biden and Vice President Harris firmly believe the best way to
ensure Israel’s long-term security is through a negotiated two-state
solution that will allow Israel to remain a secure, Jewish and
democratic state.

I also want to be clear that the onus is not just on Israelis but also
on Palestinians, which is why we are engaging the newly appointed
Palestinian Authority government to advance important reforms that make
meaningful changes to improve governance. 

Ultimately, through the regional track and the Palestinian track, this
path I’ve described opens up prospects for Israel to build enduring
security – which is what this country needs and has wanted from its
founding. 

All of this runs through securing a sustainable ceasefire in Gaza now,
as President Biden has proposed, and we should all be working to
achieve.

To conclude, I would just ask all of you to contemplate the two paths I
have just described, in one direction; indefinite conflict in Gaza
alongside growing tensions and violence in the West Bank; the absence of
a Palestinian political horizon as fuel for Hamas and other terrorist
groups; the looming threat of serious regional escalation; and growing
Israeli isolation on the world stage – or in the other direction the
path to a strong, secure and prosperous Israel; at peace with its
neighbors; backed by the United States; and integrated in the region as
never before. 

The choice should be clear.

As Israel embraces this more hopeful path, the United States will stand
with Israel every step of the way.  We remain Israel’s strongest, and
best friend in the world.  And Israel remains our closest ally in the
Middle East.  And just as I believe it is in Israel’s interests to
pursue this positive pathway…it is also in America’s interest. 

Even in this moment of tension and difficulty, this future is possible. 
It is a path worth pursuing. 

Thank you.

\# \# \#
