---
date: '2024-06-20'
modified_time: 2024-06-20 11:51:35-04:00
published_time: 2024-06-20 14:00:00-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/06/20/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-proposes-plan-to-protect-and-steward-old-growth-forests-on-national-forest-system-lands/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Proposes Plan to Protect and\
  \ Steward Old-Growth Forests on National Forest System\_Lands"
---
 
President Biden is delivering on the most ambitious climate and
conservation agenda in history, including by already protecting more
than 41 million acres of lands and waters. Today the Biden-Harris
Administration is taking new steps to conserve, restore, and expand our
nation’s old growth forests by advancing a proposal from the U.S.
Department of Agriculture (USDA)’s Forest Service to amend all 128
forest land management plans to better steward old-growth forests across
the entire National Forest System.

America’s forests are a key climate solution, absorbing carbon dioxide
equivalent to more than 10 percent of U.S. annual greenhouse gas
emissions. [USDA’s National Forest Plan
Amendment](https://www.usda.gov/media/press-releases/2024/06/20/usda-forest-service-seeks-public-comment-draft-guidance-old-growth)
proposes a consistent framework to guide conservation and restoration of
old-growth forest conditions across all national forests. This framework
will also help to ensure that our nation’s forests remain resilient to
increasing threats from climate change.

The proposed amendment will use the best available science, including
Indigenous Knowledge, to drive management strategies that conserve,
restore, and cultivate old-growth forest conditions across our national
forests. The preferred alternative outlined in the Draft Environmental
Impact Statement released today sets protections for existing old
growth, outlines proactive stewardship and science-based management
steps to reduce the threat of old-growth mortality from catastrophic
wildfire, and would require a locally-informed adaptive management
strategy to be developed within two years of a final decision.

The Forest Service and the Department of the Interior’s Bureau of Land
Management (BLM) together manage approximately 32 million acres of
old-growth and 80 million acres of mature forests on federal lands, [for
a total of 112 million
acres](https://www.usda.gov/media/press-releases/2023/04/20/biden-harris-administration-announces-new-steps-climate-resilience).
Old-growth forests represent 18 percent and mature forest another 45
percent of all forested land managed by the two agencies. Next week
Senior Advisor to the President for International Climate Policy John
Podesta will share today’s progress with the world and speak about the
role that forests play in combatting the climate crisis at the Oslo
Tropical Forest Forum in Norway.

President Biden’s [*Executive Order on Strengthening the Nation’s
Forests, Communities, and Local
Economies*](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/04/22/fact-sheet-president-biden-signs-executive-order-to-strengthen-americas-forests-boost-wildfire-resilience-and-combat-global-deforestation/)
and the [Biden-Harris Administration’s whole-of-government
approach](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/12/19/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-advances-commitment-to-protect-old-growth-forests-on-national-forest-system-lands/#:~:text=Released%20on%20Earth%20Day%202023,total%20of%20112%20million%20acres.)
are furthering efforts to safeguard and steward our nation’s forests,
including through $50 million from the Inflation Reduction Act and the
President’s Investing in America agenda to support old-growth
conservation.

Other recent progress to conserve and restore our nation’s forests and
expand access to outdoor space for communities include:

**Mature and Old-Growth Threats Analysis:** Last week the Forest Service
issued a final [Mature and Old Growth Threats
Analysis](https://www.fs.usda.gov/sites/default/files/fs_media/fs_document/MOG-threat-analysis.pdf)
which identified wildfire, exacerbated by climate change and fire
exclusion, as the leading threat to mature and old-growth forests. This
was followed by insects and disease in the West, while more varied
disturbances threaten older forests in Alaska and in eastern regions.
The analysis also found that two-thirds of mature forests and just over
half of old-growth forests are vulnerable to these threats. Tree cutting
(any removal of trees) is currently a relatively minor threat despite
having been a major disturbance historically, as from 1950 to 1990 these
practices were the primary reason for loss of old-growth forests. The
threats analysis suggests that current land management activities may
not be sufficiently responsive to rapidly changing disturbances and
conditions that affect mature and old-growth forest conditions, showing
the need for an updated nationwide plan.

**Interim Forest Service Project Review:** To ensure consistency in
old-growth management as the nationwide plan amendment process
progresses, last December the Forest Service issued an interim policy
outlined in more detail in a
[letter](https://www.fs.usda.gov/sites/default/files/ReviewOfProposedProjectsWithManagementOfOldGrowthForestConditions-NFSDC.pdf)
from the deputy chief of the National Forest System to regional
foresters. Under the interim policy the deputy chief of the Forest
Service has reviewed over 90 projects to ensure consistency with the
proposed action. Additional projects are pending review.

**Showcasing Forest Conservation Projects:** The Biden-Harris
Administration released a beta version of the [American Conservation and
Stewardship Atlas](https://www.conservation.gov/pages/atlas-and-data),
an innovative tool that offers users the ability to view a wide range of
scientific information, data, and knowledge on biodiversity, climate
change impacts, and equity, with the goal of helping inform and inspire
land, water, and wildlife conservation and restoration efforts of
individuals, land managers, policymakers, and communities. The Atlas
showcases investments in forest health, urban and community forestry
grant projects, and other resilience and restoration investments.

**BLM Public Lands Rule:** In April, the BLM finalized the [Public Lands
Rule](https://www.doi.gov/pressreleases/biden-harris-administration-finalizes-strategy-guide-balanced-management-conservation)
to help guide the balanced management of America’s public lands and
steward healthy landscapes. The final rule supports the Biden-Harris
Administration’s efforts to ensure forests continue to deliver clean
water, clean air, and sustainable wildlife habitat.

**Urban and Community Forestry Inflation Reduction Act Grants:** With
urban forests making up 20 percent of all forests in the United States,
urban trees are essential to helping communities access nature and
reducing the impacts of climate change. [USDA’s Urban and Community
Forestry
Program](https://www.fs.usda.gov/managing-land/urban-forests/ucf) is the
only federal program dedicated to the nation’s urban forest resources,
reaching more than 140 million acres of urban and community forests
across the United States. Through funding from President Biden’s
Investing in America agenda, nearly $1.4 billion has been awarded to
support urban tree-planting and management in communities across the
country.

\###
