---
date: '2024-06-15'
published_time: 2024-06-15 11:03:56-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/06/15/readout-of-vice-president-harriss-meeting-with-president-zelenskyy-of-ukraine-3/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Readout of Vice President Harris\u2019s Meeting with President Zelenskyy of\_\
  Ukraine"
---
 
Vice President Kamala Harris met today with President Volodymyr
Zelenskyy of Ukraine in Lucerne, Switzerland, on the margins of the
Summit on Peace in Ukraine. The Vice President underscored the United
States’ unwavering support for the people of Ukraine as they defend
themselves against ongoing Russian aggression. The Vice President
emphasized the U.S. support for Ukraine’s efforts to secure a just and
lasting peace, based on Ukraine’s sovereignty and territorial integrity,
consistent with the UN Charter, and she commended widespread
international support for Ukraine’s efforts.  The Vice President
condemned Russia’s attacks on Ukraine’s civilian energy infrastructure,
and the Vice President announced more than $1.5 billion in additional
assistance for Ukraine’s emergency energy needs, humanitarian
requirements such as food, water, shelter and health services, and
civilian security. The Vice President also highlighted a range of
efforts that the Administration has undertaken in recent weeks and
months to support Ukraine, including the provision of new security
assistance following President Biden’s signing of the national security
supplemental law, the signing of a Bilateral Security Agreement, G7
agreement on unlocking the value of Russia’s immobilized sovereign
assets, and efforts to help enhance Ukraine’s air defense capability,
particularly in light of the continuing threat to Ukrainian cities from
Russian airstrikes.

\# \# \#
