---
date: '2024-06-13'
modified_time: 2024-06-13 12:08:45-04:00
published_time: 2024-06-13 12:08:44-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/06/13/fact-sheet-partnership-for-global-infrastructure-and-investment-at-the-g7-summit-2/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Partnership for Global Infrastructure and Investment at the G7\_\
  Summit"
---
 
At the 2024 G7 Summit in Fasano, Italy, during the PGI Leader Forum
co-hosted by the G7 Presidency and the United States, President Biden
and G7 Leaders affirmed their commitment to accelerating sustainable
infrastructure investment through the Partnership for Global
Infrastructure and Investment (PGI), the G7’s flagship infrastructure
and investment initiative. This marked the third consecutive G7 side
event on PGI since the G7 Leaders launched the initiative in 2022 at
Elmau.

During the Fasano Summit, President Biden announced historic progress
made on his commitment to PGI while joined by other G7 Leaders, **World
Bank President Ajay Banga, the** **Chairman and CEO of BlackRock Larry
Fink, and the Chairman and CEO of Microsoft Satya Nadella.** President
Biden and other Leaders reaffirmed their commitment to unlocking public
and private capital for projects by de-risking and driving layered
investment across sectors in partner countries. Additionally, the
Leaders discussed how PGI connects and energizes like‑minded countries,
the private sector, multilateral development banks, and development
finance institutions to drive sustainable and transparent investment in
quality infrastructure. 

To date, the United States has mobilized more than $60 billion towards
PGI investments through federal financing, grants, and leveraged private
sector investments over the last three years, doubling contributions
announced at last year’s G7 Summit. We will continue to ramp up
investments to work towards the goal of mobilizing $200 billion by 2027,
as part of the broader G7 target of $600 billion by 2027.

**The United States has made historic progress on its commitment to PGI,
including supporting the launch of new initiatives with investors and
other partners who collectively have over <u>$30 billion</u> in capital
to be deployed in emerging market infrastructure investments in the
coming years. This includes:**

-   Private sector investors, including Global Infrastructure Partners
    (GIP), BlackRock, and Brookfield, **announced plans to invest at
    least $4 billion in capital towards infrastructure projects in
    alignment with PGI priorities, in anticipation of an expansion of
    investable infrastructure opportunities**. These investors intend to
    access and benefit from the [World Bank Group’s new streamlined
    guarantee
    platform](https://www.worldbank.org/en/news/press-release/2024/02/27/world-bank-group-prepares-major-overhaul-to-guarantee-business),
    which is launching on July 1 in response to feedback from the
    private sector, including the World Bank’s Private Sector Investment
    Lab and PGI’s Investor Forums. The platform will streamline access
    to political risk insurance and other guarantees that could support
    anticipated investments in PGI partner countries, supported by the
    World Bank’s goal of tripling annual guarantee issuance to $20
    billion by the end of the decade.

<!-- -->

-   In addition, **a coalition of investors, led by co-chairs GIP and
    KKR, and the Indo‑Pacific Partnership for Prosperity recently
    announced that they have entered into a Memorandum of Understanding
    to work together to catalyze infrastructure investment in emerging
    markets**, focused on the partner economies of the Indo-Pacific
    Economic Framework (IPEF). The Coalition, which also includes Allied
    Climate Partners, BlackRock, GIC, The Rockefeller Foundation, and
    Temasek will help facilitate the identification, promotion, and
    development of successful infrastructure projects and support
    coordination with governments, multilateral development banks, and
    development finance institutions to create solutions to de-risk
    investments.  The U.S. Government anticipates replicating this model
    in other regions and countries in the coming years to further scale
    private sector investment, in alignment with PGI priorities.

<!-- -->

-   In support of Prime Minister Meloni’s Mattei Plan and PGI, Italy
    officially joined the United States and EU-led Lobito Corridor
    consortium, committing at least $320 million of grant, equity and
    debt capital to finance a new 800-kilometer greenfield rail section
    of the envisioned first open-access trans-continental rail network,
    that will help spur economic development. The United Kingdom also
    announced new commitments of more than $50 million to contribute to
    African clean energy infrastructure and transmission projects, as
    well as geological surveying along the length of the Lobito
    Corridor.

<!-- -->

-   The co-chairs of the PGI Leaders Forum welcomed the development of
    the Africa Green Industrialization Initiative (AGII) as a key
    platform for collaboration on infrastructure investment in Africa
    announced by President Ruto at COP28. Under PGI, the G7 will
    mobilize public and private investment to facilitate AGII projects,
    including the United States partnering with Kenya to accelerate its
    two and three-wheeler and bus electric vehicle sector. Today, PGI
    celebrated an up to $100 million commitment of philanthropic
    investment capital by the Global Energy Alliance for People and
    Planet (GEAPP) to catalyze $1 billion in private finance for AGII
    projects across the continent of Africa and recognized GEAPP as one
    of the key partners in implementing distributed renewable energy
    generation, battery storage, and e-mobility projects.

<!-- -->

-   **Microsoft** and **BlackRock** each highlighted billions in
    investment in support of PGI priorities, including Microsoft
    investing nearly $5 billion in digital infrastructure,
    cybersecurity, skilling, and other capacity building in Kenya,
    Indonesia, and Malaysia, plus additional infrastructure investments
    and other initiatives in Thailand and the Philippines. BlackRock
    also highlighted its commitment to facilitate billions in
    investments, including the close of the Climate Finance Partnership
    (CFP), a blended finance investment vehicle developed in partnership
    with the governments of France, Germany, and Japan that seeks to
    accelerate the flow of capital into climate-related investments in
    emerging markets. CFP has already made initial investments totaling
    more than $350 million of equity in Kenya, the Philippines,
    Thailand, Brazil, Malaysia, Indonesia, and Bangladesh, and will
    continue to deploy hundreds of millions of dollars in private
    capital into emerging market climate infrastructure investment
    opportunities.

**President Biden also highlighted progress on PGI economic corridors
that reflect how the USG is working with partners to boost
infrastructure investment in emerging markets, emphasizing strategic
economic corridor development for multisector impact across countries.**

Additionally, the United States accelerated support to develop the
**Lobito Economic Corridor**, the PGI flagship economic corridor
announced by President Biden at the 2023 G7 Summit, that supports
critical transportation infrastructure in Angola, the Democratic
Republic of the Congo (DRC) and Zambia, including the first open-access
transcontinental rail network in Africa. The Corridor also enables
additional investment in agribusiness to enhance food security, digital
infrastructure, and expanded access to clean power. PGI continues to
pursue additional opportunities to connect the initial Lobito Corridor
investments across the continent, to Tanzania and, ultimately, the
Indian Ocean all while creating quality jobs and improving lives.

***Investments and Milestones to date include:***

-   ***Transportation:*** The U.S. International Development Finance
    Corporation (DFC) continues to advance its work toward finalizing
    financing for the Lobito Atlantic Railway (LAR) consortium that
    launched operations of the first section of the rail network,
    delivering its first test shipment from the DRC to the Port of
    Lobito in January 2024.****

<!-- -->

-   To replicate the Government of Angola’s successful, transparent,
    competitive tender process that awarded Lobito Atlantic Railway the
    30-year rail concession and French company Africa Global Logistics
    the Lobito port terminal concession, the U.S. Agency for
    International Development (USAID) announced and has begun
    implementation of a $1 million technical assistance partnership with
    the Ministry of Transportation’s Public‑Private Partnership unit.

<!-- -->

-   Supporting the Corridor’s expansion, the United States signed a MoU
    with the three African governments, the EU, the African Development
    Bank and the Africa Finance Corporation, mobilizing $10 million to
    launch the feasibility and project development studies for the
    greenfield Zambia-Lobito rail line. The African Development Bank
    subsequently committed $500 million toward the project and, today,
    Italy committed a further $320 million.

<!-- -->

-   DFC also committed a new $250 million debt facility to the Africa
    Finance Corporation (AFC) to support AFC’s efforts to develop
    high-quality infrastructure across the continent.

<!-- -->

-   Supporting rural transportation infrastructure, the U.S.
    Export-Import Bank (EXIM) completed the finance agreement for the
    $363 million Acrow Bridge project, constructing 186 pre-fabricated
    steel bridges throughout Angola, with financing and support from the
    Private Export Funding Corporation and Standard Chartered Bank.

<!-- -->

-   ***Clean Energy and Clean Energy Supply Chains*:** To support energy
    needs along the Corridor as well as the region’s role in the global
    energy transition, EXIM closed the precedent setting nearly $900
    million finance agreement to construct two 500 megawatt solar farms
    in Angola. Further, the EXIM Board has referred to Congress for
    notification a $1.6 billion project for U.S. supplier Sun Africa to
    construct solar mini-grids and clean water projects across Angola.

<!-- -->

-   USTDA announced a feasibility study grant to REV-UP Solar Ventures
    Zambia to develop an estimated 200-megawatt solar power plant and
    battery energy storage system in the heart of Zambia’s copper belt,
    with the potential to supply clean, stable electricity to Zambian
    industry and households, as well as two critical mineral mines in
    the DRC.

<!-- -->

-   Furthering ambitions for Zambia to contribute to the global clean
    energy transition, previous USTDA grantee and Power Africa partner
    Anzana Electric Group (formerly Virunga Power), agreed in principle
    with First Quantum Minerals (FQM) to supply 50 megawatts of
    hydropower to the Canadian miner’s portfolio of copper and nickel
    mining operations in Zambia. This agreement will catalyze
    investments of over $150 million by Anzana and its partners and new
    electricity connectivity and improved grid reliability in north-west
    Zambia.

<!-- -->

-   Following an MoU signed in November 2023, working with the Congress,
    the State Department committed to provide $2 million to develop
    Angola’s raw critical minerals data for commercial use.

<!-- -->

-   ***Digital:*** Expanding fast, reliable, affordable mobile access
    using trusted networks is critical for Lobito Corridor development.
    In August 2023, USAID granted $5 million to expand U.S. telecom
    operator Africell’s launch of mobile money services to support
    digital finance applications and spur the growth of a vibrant,
    secure and more inclusive digital payments ecosystem in Angola,
    including a pilot to launch mobile money with 2,000 farmers in
    Lobito in partnership with Carrinho Group, Angola’s largest food
    producer.

<!-- -->

-   USAID’s Digital Invest program provides blended finance grants to
    private sector partners to advance internet connectivity and digital
    financial services for underserved communities. Since the program
    launched in 2022, Digital Invest has leveraged $8.45 million in USG
    funding to raise over $300 million in investment capital, catalyzing
    over $1.15 billion in follow-on capital from external investors.

<!-- -->

-   Additionally, EXIM finalized financing for theAngola FM Radio Signal
    Expansion and Studio Modernization Project, supported by Ohio-based
    GatesAir technology, a $40 million project with Deutsche Bank to
    expand FM radio coverage to 95 percent of the Angolan population.

<!-- -->

-   At the May 2024 Kenya State visit, **Google** announced an
    investment in digital connectivity for Africa Connect, creating the
    first intercontinental fiber optic route in the southern hemisphere
    between Kenya and the Asia Pacific region.  The terrestrial portion
    of Africa Connect has regional breakout points which enable trusted
    connectivity from Kenya to Uganda, Rwanda, Democratic Republic of
    Congo, Zambia, Zimbabwe, South Africa and Google’s Africa Cloud
    Region.

<!-- -->

-   ***Agriculture:*** Delivering on the Lobito Corridor’s vast
    agricultural production potential within the region, DFC committed a
    $10 million loan to Seba Foods Zambia, a major U.S. food and
    agriculture investment along the Lobito Corridor.

<!-- -->

-   Additionally, USAID announced a $5 million grant to expand an
    existing agriculture training program promoting women’s farmers in
    Angola to the Lobito Corridor.

<!-- -->

-   The Millennium Challenge Corporation (MCC) and the Government of
    Zambia are developing a $450 million compact to work on the binding
    constraints to economic growth in agriculture, transportation,
    reliable power, and access to finance.

Announced in April 2024, the United States and Japan, together with the
Philippines, are supporting the development of the **Luzon Economic
Corridor**, the latest PGI economic corridor and the first in the
Indo-Pacific, to support connectivity between Subic Bay, Clark, Manila,
and Batangas in the Philippines.

***Investments and Milestones to date include:***

-   ***Grant Support for Project Development*:** The State Department
    and USAID committed to provide over $14.75 million to support
    project preparation and technical assistance work along the Corridor
    aimed at infrastructure development and other strategic programs,
    subject to Congressional approval.

<!-- -->

-   ***Agriculture:*** USAID is providing transaction advisory
    assistance to the Clark International Airport Corporation (CIAC) to
    develop a food terminal and transport hub.

<!-- -->

-   ***Transportation:*** A USTDA grant is funding a feasibility study
    to support the expansion of a Vessel Traffic Management System at 8
    to 10 locations in the Philippines.

<!-- -->

-   ***Clean Energy:*** A USTDA grant is funding a feasibility study and
    pilot for Energy Development Corporation, a private energy developer
    in the Philippines, to evaluate the the use of GreenFire Energy’s
    technology to increase geothermal power production.

<!-- -->

-   ***Digital:*** A USTDA grant is partially funding a feasibility
    study and pilot project for Now Telecom Company, Inc., a Philippine
    telecom operator, to support the development of a 5G mobile and
    fixed wireless network in the Philippines.

**Additional notable investments to date from the private sector**: To
reach PGI’s goals, the U.S. Government and G7 recognize the need to
continue to partner with and scale private sector investment and benefit
from private sector expertise, and private sector partners highlighted
billions in investment in alignment with PGI priorities.

**Microsoft** and its partners are committed to **invest nearly $5
billion** in digital infrastructure, cybersecurity, skilling, and other
capacity building in Kenya, Indonesia, and Malaysia, plus additional
infrastructure investments and other initiatives in Thailand and the
Philippines in support of the G7’s PGI:

-   In **Kenya**, Microsoft and its partner G42 committed to invest $1
    billion towards the single largest and broadest digital investment
    in Kenya’s history including building a state-of-the-art data center
    campus in Olkaria, Kenya, run entirely on renewable geothermal
    energy and featuring advanced water conservation technology;
    developinglocal-language AI models; establishing an East Africa
    Innovation Lab**;** supporting development of fiber cable
    infrastructure to bring last-mile wireless internet access to 20
    million people in Kenya and 50 million people across East Africa by
    the end of 2025; and working closely with the Kenyan government to
    ensure safe and secure cloud services for the region.

<!-- -->

-   In **Indonesia**, Microsoft committed to invest $1.7 billion in new
    cloud and AI infrastructure, as well as AI skilling opportunities
    for 840,000 people, and support for the nation’s local software
    developers.

<!-- -->

-   In **Malaysia**, Microsoft committed to invest $2.2 billion building
    cloud and AI infrastructure, creating AI skilling opportunities for
    an additional 200,000 people, strengthening its partnership with the
    Government of Malaysia to establish a national AI Centre of
    Excellence and enhance the nation’s cybersecurity capabilities, and
    supporting the growth of Malaysia’s developer community.

<!-- -->

-   In **Thailand**, Microsoft committed to build new cloud and AI
    infrastructure including a new datacenter region, to provide AI
    skilling opportunities for over 100,000 people, and to support the
    nation’s growing community of developers.

<!-- -->

-   In the **Philippines**, Microsoft committed to expand high-speed
    internet access to one million people, to equip over 100,000 women
    learners with AI and cybersecurity skills, to cooperate with
    government agencies to deploy AI in their internal processes and to
    power citizen services, and to provide cybersecurity services to
    help protect against nation state attacks for organizations that
    support the Philippines’ democracy, such as those connected to
    politics, the elections, journalism, think tanks, and human rights.

Additionally, **BlackRock** also highlighted initiatives to facilitate
investment into emerging market climate infrastructure, including:

-   At COP26, BlackRock announced the final close of the Climate Finance
    Partnership (CFP), a blended finance investment vehicle developed in
    partnership with the governments of France, Germany, and Japan that
    seeks to accelerate the flow of capital into climate-related
    investments in emerging markets. During 2023, CFP made 5 investments
    totaling more than $350 million of equity into a diversified
    portfolio of wind, utility solar, and distributed solar assets
    across Africa, Southeast Asia, and Latin America:
    -   Lake Turkana Wind Power (Kenya): BlackRock CFP invested in the
        Lake Turkana Wind Power project in Kenya, the largest wind farm
        in Africa with 365 wind turbines and a combined capacity of
        310MW.  Today, the project represents approximately 12% of
        Kenya’s power generation, providing 3.2 million people with
        improved electricity access. CFP also estimates that the project
        supports nearly 500 local jobs.  
          

    <!-- -->

    -   CleanTech Global Renewables (Philippines): BlackRock CFP has
        partnered with CleanTech Global Renewables, a renewable energy
        developer in the Philippines, to build up to 1GW of large-scale
        solar capacity in the local market by 2027-2028. The project is
        anticipated to improve electricity access for at least 125,000
        households across the country, help prevent 1.3 million metric
        tonnes of GHG emissions over its lifetime and save 3.5 million
        metric tonnes of water.  
          

    <!-- -->

    -   Chow Energy (Thailand): BlackRock CFP has partnered with Chow
        Energy Company Limited, a renewable energy operator and
        developer in Thailand, to develop and build a 1GW+ pipeline of
        domestic greenfield commercial & industrial (“C&I”) solar
        capacity. The targeted portfolio is forecasted to help reduce 1
        million metric tonnes of carbon dioxide emissions over its
        lifetime.  
          

    <!-- -->

    -   Brasol (Brazil): BlackRock CFP invested in Brasol, a solar
        developer and energy transition company in Brazil. Brasol
        intends to boost its solar generation capacity to over 200MWs
        over the next 18 months, with additional growth into grid
        infrastructure and EV charging. In 2023 alone, Brasol’s projects
        prevented about 12,000 metric tonnes of GHG emissions, with
        significant additional emission reductions projected as CFP’s
        capital is used to bring additional solar projects online.  
          

    <!-- -->

    -   Ditrolic Energy (Malaysia, Philippines, Indonesia, Bangladesh):
        BlackRock CFP invested in Ditrolic Energy Holdings, a Malaysian
        renewable energy platform, to develop and build 400MW of C&I and
        utility scale solar projects across Malaysia, the Philippines,
        Indonesia, and Bangladesh. Once built, the portfolio is expected
        to eliminate an estimated 2.7 million tonnes of CO2 emissions,
        while improving access to electricity for some 52,000 consumers
        and providing jobs for around 3,500 people.  
          
-   Following these investments, CFP has approximately $320 million of
    capital remaining for deployment into future emerging market climate
    infrastructure investment opportunities. At COP28, ALTÉRRA, the
    UAE’s climate finance vehicle, awarded CFP $100 million of
    co-investment capital for CFP I and committed $250 million of anchor
    catalytic capital to CFP’s follow-on fund investing in emerging
    market climate infrastructure opportunities.

**Additional notable PGI investments this year include:**

-   ***E-mobility rollout in India:*** At COP28, the United States
    announced the U.S.-India Green Fund (USIGF), a private credit fund
    facilitated by PGI for which DFC and the Government of India intend
    to co-anchor a combined investment of up to $1 billion. PGI is also
    facilitating an e-bus payment security mechanism in which the United
    States mobilized more than $150 million in U.S. public and
    philanthropic grant commitments to secure $240 million in Government
    of India grants that will unlock $10 billion in investment capital
    for the manufacturing and deployment of up to 40,000 Indian-made
    e-buses.

<!-- -->

-   ***Advancing women’s participation in sustainable sectors:***
    Through the Women in the Sustainable Economy Initiative (WISE) – a
    public-private partnership between governments, the private sector,
    philanthropies, multilateral organizations, and civil society
    organizations first launched by the United States in 2023 – we have
    galvanized $1.4 billion in commitments to advance women’s
    participation in green and blue industries of the future, including
    more than $600 million in commitments from the U.S. government.

<!-- -->

-   ***Building connectivity and climate resilience in Mozambique:***
    MCC has invested $1.3 billion in Mozambique to date, including a
    $500 million Connectivity and Coastal Resilience Compact signed in
    September 2023, which is expected to mobilize an estimated $250
    million in additional investments.  The compact is centered on the
    construction of a new climate-resilient 1.1-mile bridge spanning the
    Licungo River, making it easier for farmers to lower production and
    transport costs and get goods to market.

<!-- -->

-   ***Connecting Pacific Islanders to international subsea cables:***
    Building on international commercial subsea cables under
    development, including Google’s $1 billion Pacific Connect
    initiative, the State Department is providing an initial investment
    of $15 million to support digital connectivity for the Pacific
    Islanders and meet the demand for additional secure ICT
    infrastructure investments.

<!-- -->

-   ***Closing the gender digital divide:*** Through the Women in
    Digital Economy Fund (Wi-DEF) and Initiative – a public-private
    partnership between governments, the private sector, philanthropies,
    multilateral organizations, and civil society organizations first
    launched by the United States in 2023 – we have generated over $1
    billion in public and private commitments to accelerate gender
    digital equality and close the gender digital divide.

<!-- -->

-   ***Rail transportation in Kazakhstan:*** EXIM announced the approval
    of a $594 million loan guarantee to Kazakhstan Temir Zholy, “KTZ,”
    the national railway of Kazakhstan, to support the export of Wabtec
    locomotive and shunter kits. This transaction was estimated to
    support 1,500 U.S. jobs.

<!-- -->

-   ***Strengthening port infrastructure in Sri Lanka:*** DFC committed
    a $553 million loan to support the construction and operation of a
    deepwater shipping container terminal in the Port of Colombo, Sri
    Lanka, that will create jobs, facilitate transshipment, and support
    the local economy.

<!-- -->

-   ***Promoting access to reliable energy in Sierra Leone:*** DFC
    approved a new loan of up to $292 million to the Freetown-based
    Western Area Power Generation Project to help develop and upgrade
    the power plant’s infrastructure, promoting reliable access to power
    throughout Sierra Leone. DFC will also provide up to $120 million in
    political risk insurance to crowd-in private investment and the
    ECOWAS Bank for Investment and Development will also provide a $40
    million loan.  

<!-- -->

-   ***Supporting solar power generation in Ecuador:*** DFC committed a
    $144 million loan to support the development of Ecuador’s first
    private-sector-owned, utility-scale solar power plant. The
    200-megawatt Solararomo project will help to meet growing demand for
    electricity and expand Ecuador’s share of clean energy. In addition,
    DFC also provided $50 million in political risk insurance coverage
    for the equity investment in the construction and operation of the
    project. 

<!-- -->

-   ***Investing in connectivity in Kenya:*** Launched during the Kenya
    Head of State visit in May 2024, MCC’s $60 million Urban Mobility
    and Growth Threshold Program will assist Kenya in addressing limited
    connectivity in urban areas. The program is anticipated to generate
    benefits for over four million residents by addressing
    transportation needs for pedestrians, advancing safer transportation
    options for women, and catalyzing financing for climate-friendly
    public transportation.

<!-- -->

-   ***Scaling investments in the Western Hemisphere:*** DFC and IDB
    Invest launched the Americas Partnership Platform last year to
    facilitate and increase cooperation to support high-quality
    infrastructure projects across Latin America and the Caribbean.
    Building upon that partnership, DFC and IDB Invest announced in
    April 2024 an additional co-financing framework to support
    investments across key sectors and create a streamlined process
    where DFC and IDB Invest can provide up to $50 million each to meet
    financing needs.

<!-- -->

-   ***Improving food security in India:*** DFC has committed $48
    million to projects managed by Leap India Food & Logistics to
    construct modern grain silo terminals that can store enough to feed
    6.8 million people. The modern silos will nearly eliminate spoilage,
    reducing emissions and ultimately enabling the export excess grain,
    helping to stabilize the availability and rice of grain amidst the
    instability caused by Russia’s unprovoked invasion of Ukraine.  

<!-- -->

-   ***Building trusted digital infrastructure in Indonesia:*** USTDA
    awarded a grant to Indonesia’s Ministry of Communication and
    Informatics for a feasibility study to support the deployment of
    open radio access network (Open RAN) technology to provide cellular
    wireless connectivity to 1,621 unserved rural villages in Indonesia.

<!-- -->

-   **Investing in Childcare:** The United States and G7 governments
    affirmed support for the Invest in Childcare Initiative implemented
    by the World Bank, and committed to supporting 200 million more
    women to join the workforce by 2035 by investing in efforts to close
    the global childcare gap, critical infrastructure to ensure the
    full, equal, and meaningful participation of women in the economy
    and society.

\###
