---
date: '2025-01-06'
modified_time: 2025-01-05 20:33:24-05:00
published_time: 2025-01-06 05:00:00-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2025/01/06/statement-from-president-joe-biden-on-protecting-americas-ocean-and-coasts-from-offshore-oil-and-gas-drilling/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Statement from President Joe\_Biden on Protecting America\u2019s Ocean and\
  \ Coasts from Offshore Oil and Gas\_Drilling"
---
 
I am taking action to protect the East and West coasts, the eastern Gulf
of Mexico, and Alaska’s Northern Bering Sea from oil and natural gas
drilling and the harm it can cause. My decision reflects what coastal
communities, businesses, and beachgoers have known for a long time: that
drilling off these coasts could cause irreversible damage to places we
hold dear and is unnecessary to meet our nation’s energy needs. It is
not worth the risks. As the climate crisis continues to threaten
communities across the country and we are transitioning to a clean
energy economy, now is the time to protect these coasts for our children
and grandchildren.

From California to Florida, Republican and Democratic Governors, Members
of Congress, and coastal communities alike have worked and called for
greater protection of our ocean and coastlines from harms that offshore
oil and natural gas drilling can bring. In Alaska, dozens of Tribes have
fought to protect the Northern Bering Sea, a vital ocean ecosystem that
supports their traditional ways of life. Vice President Harris and I
have listened. In balancing the many uses and benefits of America’s
ocean, it is clear to me that the relatively minimal fossil fuel
potential in the areas I am withdrawing do not justify the
environmental, public health, and economic risks that would come from
new leasing and drilling.

The Deepwater Horizon oil spill, a man-made catastrophe that took the
lives of eleven people and spilled millions of barrels of oil into the
waters of the Gulf of Mexico, is a solemn reminder of the costs and
risks of offshore drilling to the health and resilience of our coasts
and fisheries and underscores the importance of the legal protections I
am putting in place today. It is also one of the reasons why on my watch
we have strengthened offshore safety standards for workers and
communities on the front lines of existing operations nationwide, and
rapidly accelerated the development of safer and cleaner energy sources,
including the approval of eleven offshore wind projects.

From Day One, I have delivered on the most ambitious climate and
conservation agenda in our country’s history. And over the last four
years, I have conserved more than 670 million acres of America’s lands
and waters, more than any other president in history. Our country’s
remarkable conservation and restoration progress has been locally led by
Tribes, farmers and ranchers, fishermen, small businesses, and outdoor
recreation enthusiasts across the country. Together, our “America the
Beautiful” initiative put the United States on track to meet my
ambitious goal to conserve at least 30 percent of our Nation’s lands and
waters by 2030. 

We do not need to choose between protecting the environment and growing
our economy, or between keeping our ocean healthy, our coastlines
resilient, and the food they produce secure and keeping energy prices
low. Those are false choices. Protecting America’s coasts and ocean is
the right thing to do, and will help communities and the economy to
flourish for generations to come.

\###
