---
date: '2025-01-14'
modified_time: 2025-01-14 01:08:45-05:00
published_time: 2025-01-14 07:00:00-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2025/01/14/statement-by-president-biden-on-the-executive-order-on-advancing-u-s-leadership-in-artificial-intelligence-infrastructure/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Statement by President\_Biden on the Executive Order on Advancing U.S. Leadership\
  \ in Artificial Intelligence Infrastructure"
---
 
The United States leads the world at the frontier of artificial
intelligence (AI). Cutting-edge AI will have profound implications for
national security and enormous potential to improve Americans’ lives if
harnessed responsibly, from helping cure disease to keeping communities
safe by mitigating the effects of climate change. However, we cannot
take our lead for granted.

We will not let America be out-built when it comes to the technology
that will define the future, nor should we sacrifice critical
environmental standards and our shared efforts to protect clean air and
clean water.

That is why today, I am signing an historic Executive Order to
accelerate the speed at which we build the next generation of AI
infrastructure here in America, in a way that enhances economic
competitiveness, national security, AI safety, and clean energy.

This Executive Order will direct the Department of Defense and the
Department of Energy to lease federal sites where the private sector can
build frontier AI infrastructure at speed and scale. These efforts are
designed to accelerate the clean energy transition in a way that is
responsible and respectful to local communities, and in a way that does
not impose any new costs on American families.

These efforts also will help position America to lead the world in clean
energy deployment in the context of strategic competition abroad. Some
of this new capacity will also be committed for use by small businesses
and startups. This renewed partnership between the government and
industry will ensure that the United States will continue to lead the
age of AI.

**President Biden Issues Executive Order to Advance U.S. Leadership in
Artificial Intelligence Infrastructure**

Today, President Biden issued an Executive Order to secure American
leadership in artificial intelligence (AI) and ensure that the
infrastructure needed for advanced AI operations—including large-scale
data centers and new clean power infrastructure—can be built with speed
and scale here in the United States.

Building AI infrastructure in the United States is a national security
imperative. As AI’s capabilities grow, so do its implications for
Americans’ safety and security. Domestic data centers for training and
operating powerful AI models will help the United States facilitate AI’s
safe and secure development, harness AI in service of national security,
and prevent adversaries from accessing powerful systems to the detriment
of our military and national-security. It will also help prevent America
from growing dependent on other countries to access powerful AI tools.

Building AI infrastructure is also vital to America’s continued economic
competitiveness. AI is poised to have large effects across our economy,
including in health care, transportation, education, and beyond, and it
is too important to be offshored. In addition, the significant and
growing electricity needs of large-scale AI operations present a new
opportunity for advancing American leadership in the clean energy
technologies that will power the economy. This infrastructure can and
must be built without raising costs for American consumers and in ways
that support continued progress on commercializing and deploying clean
energy.

Today’s Executive Order enables an AI infrastructure buildout that
protects national security, enhances competitiveness, powers AI with
clean energy, enhances AI safety, keeps prices low for consumers,
demonstrates responsible ways to scale new technologies, and promotes a
competitive AI ecosystem. As described below, the Executive Order
directs agencies to take sweeping steps to accelerate large-scale AI
infrastructure development at federal sites, while directing the
imposition of key requirements and safeguards on the developers building
on these locations.

**<u>Accelerating AI Infrastructure Development</u>**

The Executive Order directs certain agencies to make federal sites
available for AI data centers and new clean power facilities, facilitate
this infrastructure’s interconnection to the electric grid, fulfill
permitting obligations expeditiously, and advance transmission
development around federal sites. To accelerate AI infrastructure
development, agencies will leverage their authorities to:

-   **Lease federal sites owned by the Department of Defense (DOD) and
    Department of Energy (DOE) to host gigawatt-scale AI data centers.**
    DOD and DOE will select sites where the private sector can build AI
    data centers and clean power facilities based on those sites’
    accessibility to high-capacity transmission infrastructure and
    minimized adverse effects on communities, the natural environment,
    and commercial resources. After selecting sites, DOD and DOE will
    hold competitive solicitations for proposals to lease these sites
    for building, owning, and operating large-scale AI
    infrastructure—all at private expense.

<!-- -->

-   **Catalyze deployment of new clean energy generation to support AI
    infrastructure.** Developers selected to build on DOD and DOE sites
    will be required to bring online sufficient clean energy generation
    resources to match the full electricity needs of their data centers,
    consistent with applicable law. To support these efforts, the
    Department of Interior will identify lands it manages that are
    suitable for clean energy that can support data centers on DOE and
    DOD sites, while enhancing permitting processes for geothermal
    projects. DOE will take further steps to promote distributed energy
    resources, advance siting of clean generation resources at existing
    points of interconnection, and support the safe and responsible
    deployment of nuclear energy.

<!-- -->

-   **Prioritize full and expeditious permitting of AI infrastructure on
    federal sites.** Agencies will prioritize and dedicate staff toward
    permitting this infrastructure in a timely manner, and DOD will
    immediately undertake environmental analyses that will improve the
    speed and accuracy of future site-specific reviews. Agencies will
    identify further opportunities to support expeditious permitting at
    these sites, such as by applying or establishing “categorical
    exclusions”—the fastest form of review under the National
    Environmental Policy Act—for infrastructure that does not
    significantly affect the environment.

<!-- -->

-   **Accelerate transmission development around federal sites.** To
    help ensure the timely operation of AI infrastructure on federal
    sites, DOE will take appropriate steps to coordinate with developers
    in constructing, financing, facilitating, and planning the upgrade
    and development of transmission lines around those sites. To
    facilitate this work, DOE will also collect information to improve
    transmission planning in these regions, such as utility data on
    transmission congestion. Additionally, DOD, DOE, and the Department
    of Commerce will support producers of transformers and other grid
    components critical for AI infrastructure—including through
    appropriate steps to establish equipment reserves—as federal
    agencies explore loan-guarantee programs to advance AI
    infrastructure development.

<!-- -->

-   **Facilitate interconnection of AI infrastructure to the electric
    grid.** DOE will engage utilities on their requirements for
    interconnecting AI infrastructure on federal sites and on
    opportunities to accelerate interconnection via grid-enhancing
    technologies, operational changes, and other measures. DOE will also
    share information about underutilized points interconnection that
    can serve federal sites and on clean energy projects that have
    preexisting interconnection approvals but are not yet built.

<!-- -->

-   **Ensure low electricity prices for consumers.** Developers selected
    to build on DOD and DOE sites will be required, consistent with
    applicable law, to pay all costs of building and operating AI
    infrastructure so that this development does not raise electricity
    prices for consumers. Agencies will also complete a study on the
    effects of all AI data centers on electricity prices, and DOE will
    provide technical assistance to state public utility commissions
    regarding electricity tariff designs that can support connecting new
    large customers with clean energy.

<!-- -->

-   **Advance allies and partners’ development of AI infrastructure.**
    The Department of State will engage allies and partners on steps to
    build trusted AI infrastructure around the world. This work will
    support global efforts to advance the development of clean energy
    technologies, such as small modular nuclear reactors; catalyze
    investment in AI infrastructure; and strengthen data center safety
    and security.

**<u>Lease Obligations for Developers on Federal Sites.</u>** The
buildout of AI infrastructure must not only advance national security
and competitiveness but also support U.S. clean energy leadership, a
competitive technology ecosystem, low consumer prices, workers building
AI infrastructure, and communities near it. To hold AI developers
accountable, the Executive Order outlines certain contractual
obligations that DOD and DOE will impose on developers on federal sites,
consistent with applicable law. Those obligations include:

-   **Paying the full cost of building, operating, and maintaining AI
    infrastructure**—including the costs of building new data centers
    and clean power facilities, transmission development and upgrades.

<!-- -->

-   **Procuring new clean energy generation resources that can be
    delivered to the data center and that accurately match their
    electricity and capacity needs.** This buildout will prevent
    electricity price increases and advance U.S. energy leadership.

<!-- -->

-   **Strengthening lab-security requirements and evaluating the
    national security implications of AI models developed on federal
    sites**.The evaluations will assess models for risks to safety and
    security, as well as their potential to advance national-security
    objectives.

<!-- -->

-   **Adhering to high labor standards,** promoting positive
    labor-management relations,and paying workers prevailing wages.

<!-- -->

-   **Purchasing an appropriate share of domestically manufactured
    semiconductors** to help ensure a robust domestic semiconductor
    supply chain.

\###
