---
date: '2025-01-07'
published_time: 2025-01-07 17:51:45-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2025/01/07/fact-sheet-biden-%e2%81%a0harris-administration-launches-new-era-in-public-private-partnership/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Launches New Era in Public-Private\
  \ Partnership"
---
 
The Biden-Harris Administration launched a new era in public-private
partnerships, forging innovative, high-impact, and multisector
partnerships to advance U.S. foreign policy and national security.

In one of his earliest national security memoranda, President Biden
acknowledged that “government alone cannot solve the complex challenges
the United States faces at home and abroad.  In addition to restoring
bilateral and multilateral alliances, the United States must bring to
bear the ideas, perspectives, and contributions of a diverse array of
sub-national and non-governmental partners…”

In that spirit, the Biden-Harris Administration made unprecedented use
of public-private partnerships to advance key interests on every
continent and nearly every major issue.  Public-private partnerships
have been a feature of nearly every major White House initiative.  These
partnerships have helped us effectively engage in strategic competition
– economic, military, ideological, and competition to shape the future
of the international order – fostering global cooperation around shared
threats and challenges, like climate change, pandemic prevention, and
countering transnational criminal activity.

Beyond launching high-impact partnerships, the Biden-Harris
Administration also made generational strides in building partnership
capacity and fostering a partnership culture across the federal
government.  This Administration spurred the creation of formal
partnership offices in several federal agencies and the maturation of
over a dozen more.  Public-private partnership is, for the first time, a
tool that nearly all national security agencies are resourced and
empowered to use. 

The Biden-Harris Administration’s expansive scope and scale of
public-private partnerships has allowed us to be better positioned to
outmaneuver our geopolitical competitors, while leading global efforts
to tackle shared challenges.  This approach has and will continue to pay
off for the American people. 

**BY THE NUMBERS**

-   **<u>Leveraging Private Funding:</u>** Since FY 2021, the
    Biden-Harris Administration has leveraged or received commitments of
    **more than $97 billion from private sector, philanthropy, and civil
    society partners**.

<!-- -->

-   **<u>Launching New Partnerships:</u>** The Biden-Harris
    Administration **established more than 1,400+ new** **partnerships
    programs, engaging more than 4,400+ distinct partners across private
    sector, philanthropy, and civil society**. 

<!-- -->

-   **<u>Global Reach</u>**: Public-private partnerships with federal
    agencies are operating in communities across more than **130
    countries**.

**FEATURED PARTNERSHIP AREAS**

-   **Catalyzing High-Quality Infrastructure Investment:** The
    Biden-Harris Administration has led the G7 to invest in low- and
    middle-income countries through the flagship initiative Partnership
    for Global Infrastructure and Investment (PGI).  Over the last three
    years, the United States alone has mobilized more than $80 billion
    towards PGI investments through federal financing, grants, and
    leveraged private sector contributions, including investments
    focused on the partner economies of the Indo-Pacific Economic
    Framework (IPEF), and across sub-Saharan Africa.  This includes the
    development of food production and energy infrastructure in the
    Lobito Trans-Africa Corridor, the first open-access transcontinental
    rail network in Africa, and the Luzon Economic Corridor in the
    Philippines. 

<!-- -->

-   **Driving Regional Entrepreneurship and Investment:** The United
    States has led efforts to create diversified and resilient regional
    supply lines, as well as efforts to train an inclusive and diverse
    cohort of entrepreneurs.  The investor network component of the
    Americas Partnership for Economic Prosperity (APEP) is promoting a
    robust and inclusive entrepreneurial landscape in the Western
    Hemisphere by bridging investment gaps and connecting Latin American
    and Caribbean entrepreneurs with strategic investors, mentors, and
    resources, already having pledged $1.7 billion and deployed over $92
    million.  The Biden-Harris Administration also partnered with the
    Inter-American Development Bank (IDB), which is conducting
    competitiveness studies of APEP countries that will facilitate the
    establishment of integrated regional value chains in three critical
    areas: medical supplies, semiconductors, and critical minerals. 

<!-- -->

-   **Global COVID Response:** During the first and second Global COVID
    Summits, President Biden announced more than $2 billion in private
    and philanthropic sector commitments to support the global COVID
    response through vaccination efforts, concessionary pricing of
    therapeutics, vaccine awareness campaigns, and health worker support
    initiative.  Project Last Mile is continuing this work.

<!-- -->

-   **Tackling the Climate Crisis**: The Biden-Harris Administration has
    supplemented the investments of the Inflation Reduction Act with
    international partnerships to combat the climate crisis.  At COP26,
    President Biden released the President’s Emergency Plan for
    Adaptation and Resilience (PREPARE) to help more than half a billion
    people in developing countries adapt to and manage the impacts of
    climate change.  The plan includes partnerships between private
    sector and the DFC to invest in climate resilience.  Since November
    2022, 40 companies and partners have made voluntary commitments to
    build climate resilience around the world and these efforts will
    mobilize more than $3 billion in additional support to help people
    better manage the impacts of climate change.  

**Promoting Rights and Opportunities for Women and Girls:** The
Biden-Harris Administration advanced gender equality globally, launching
initiatives to increase women’s economic security, address gender-based
violence, promote women’s participation in peace and security processes,
and advance women’s leadership and human rights.  The Administration
mobilized over $2 billion in private resources to close gender gaps
online through the Women in the Digital Economy initiative and in green
and blue sectors through the Women in the Sustainable Economy
initiative.

-   **Building Regional Disaster Resilience:** In addition to tackling
    the climate crises abroad, the Biden-Harris Administration is
    implementing strategies to ensure that states, counties, tribal
    lands, and U.S. territories are better prepared before natural
    disasters occur here at home.  FEMA alone has over 3,000 local
    partners across the United States and abroad in its work to prepare
    for, respond, recover from disasters.  This includes partnerships
    that provide investments in training for caregivers to plan for
    patient needs during a disaster; the launching of Community Disaster
    Resilience Zones (CDRZ) to help state and local authorities identify
    the most at risk and in-need communities to prioritize public and
    private resources; and increasing regional capacity for response and
    recovery activities during declared emergencies or disasters,
    through the Mission Ready Venues partnership.  This partnership with
    the National Football League authorizes large sports venues to serve
    as emergency shelters, staging areas, commodity distribution sites,
    evacuation pick up points, disaster recovery centers, mass
    vaccination and testing, temporary hospitals, and more. 

<!-- -->

-   **Addressing Food Insecurity:** Fostering public-private
    partnerships has been a critical tool of the Biden-Harris
    Administration in combatting global food insecurity and ensuring
    inclusive economic growth.  Feed the Future, the U.S. government’s
    flagship global hunger and food security initiative, has leveraged
    more than $6 billion in private sector commitments, mitigating the
    hunger crises for millions of people around the world.  Funding
    support to agribusiness entrepreneurs through the U.S.-African Union
    Strategic Partnership helps to diversify food supply markets.  Other
    efforts, like PGI, have helped mobilize over $1 billion in U.S.
    investments to spur inclusive economic growth, fund reliable roads,
    digital agriculture financing, food processing facilities, and
    irrigation projects in developing partner countries. 

<!-- -->

-   **Providing a Beacon of Hope for Refugees and Welcoming Our Afghan
    Allies:** The Biden-Harris Administration has rebuilt partnerships
    with refugee resettlement agencies, civil society, the private
    sector, faith communities, and veterans to continue the long
    tradition of the United States as a leader in refugee resettlement. 
    In FY 2024, this public-private partnership welcomed more than
    100,000 refugees from around the world, the most in a single year in
    three decades.  The Administration has also partnered to welcome
    more Afghan Special Immigrant Visa holders than all other
    administrations combined.  Building from whole-of-society efforts to
    welcome Afghan newcomers, the Administration created the Welcome
    Corps to enable ordinary Americans to sponsor refugees and Afghan
    Special Immigrant Visa holders into their communities.  The
    Department of State also formed a unique partnership with the
    \#AfghanEvac Coalition to support the resettlement of our Afghan
    allies.

<!-- -->

-   **Managing Regional Migration**: Under the Los Angeles Declaration
    on Migration and Protection, the Biden-Harris Administration has
    brought together 22 hemispheric partners behind a shared approach to
    advance safe, humane, and orderly migration.  Public-private
    partnerships have been critical to implementing the LA Declaration,
    which has helped leverage private sector and multilateral
    institutions to support efforts by host communities within Latin
    America and the Caribbean to stabilize and integrate millions of
    migrants.  The public-private partnership known as Central America
    Forward, launched in response to Vice President Harris’s Call to
    Action for Northern Central America, generated more than $5.2
    billion in new commitments from more than 50 companies and
    organizations in support of inclusive economic growth in the
    region.  

<!-- -->

-   **Digital Connectivity & Economic Growth Across the Global South:**
    The Biden-Harris Administration has partnered with companies,
    philanthropies, and multinational development banks to accelerate
    the economic growth and digital connectivity of partners across the
    Global South.  As the 2023 APEC Host, the Administration generated
    $50 billion in new U.S. private sector investments into Indo-Pacific
    countries including nearly $25 billion to increase digital
    connectivity including sub-sea cables.  As part of her historic trip
    to Africa, Vice President Harris galvanized U.S., African, and
    global private sector investments for the Continent, including more
    than $7 billion in climate adaptation, resilience, and mitigation
    commitments and $1 billion in commitments to advance women’s
    economic security and close the gender digital divide in Africa.
    Building on these efforts, in May 2024 the Vice President launched
    two new public-private partnerships to advance digital access and
    inclusion in Africa.  Since 2021, the U.S. Government has helped
    close 1,882 deals across 42 countries for a total estimated value of
    $72.3 billion across Africa, including through Digital
    Transformation with Africa (DTA) Initiative, U.S.-Africa Clean-Tech
    Energy Network (CTEN), and the Africa Tech for Trade Alliance.

<!-- -->

-   **Advancing American Competitiveness and Security Across Supply
    Chains & Tech:** The Biden-Harris Administration has fundamentally
    revised the U.S. approach to technology and national security and
    recognizes that economic competitiveness and national security
    depend on our ability to build secure and sustainable supply chains
    for the technologies necessary to power our future.  Not only has
    this Administration made historic investments totaling $395 billion
    through the CHIPS and Science Act to secure U.S. global leadership
    in advanced technology like Artificial Intelligence (AI), but it has
    utilized partnerships with industry-leading technology companies to
    effectively out-compete other nations, increase our innovative
    capacity, and establish secure, high-tech supply chains.  The NSF
    launched the National Artificial Intelligence Research Resource
    Pilot and the National Artificial Intelligence Research Institutes
    partnerships to support AI research to advance safe, secure and
    trustworthy AI, as well as the application of AI to challenges in
    healthcare and environmental and infrastructure sustainability.  
    Additionally, the United States, Japan, United Kingdom, France, and
    Canada- via the “Sapporo 5” partnership successfully mobilized over
    $5.6 billion in public and private investments to expand uranium
    enrichment services for the civil nuclear sector and build a
    peaceful nuclear energy supply chain free from Russian influence.

<!-- -->

-   **Securing our Digital House:** The Administration is locking
    America’s digital doors to threats of manipulation, scamming, theft,
    and disruption by malicious cyber actors, including by taking
    unprecedented action with the private sector to protect America’s
    critical infrastructure.  Public-private partnerships have provided
    grants and discounts on security products optimized for smaller
    hospitals and provided free and low-cost cybersecurity resources to
    school districts.  The Administration has launched the U.S. Cyber
    Trust Mark a voluntary certification and labeling program that
    raises the bar for cybersecurity across common consumer smart
    devices.  The USG has also partnered with the tech industry to fight
    cryptocurrency finance crime and ransomware, standing up a
    partnership for rapid tracing and interdiction under the Illicit
    Virtual Asset Notification (IVAN) program.

\###
