---
date: '2025-01-07'
published_time: 2025-01-07 15:47:25-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2025/01/07/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-introduces-new-guidance-for-missile-technology-exports-to-advance-nonproliferation-goals-and-bolster-allied-defense-capabilities/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: Biden-\u2060Harris Administration Introduces New Guidance for\
  \ Missile Technology Exports to Advance Nonproliferation Goals and Bolster Allied\
  \ Defense\_Capabilities"
---
 
On January 3, President Biden issued a National Security Memorandum to
update policy guidance for the U.S. Government’s implementation of the
Missile Technology Control Regime, or “MTCR.” These updates reflect a
renewed U.S. commitment to nonproliferation, while advancing the
President’s goals of strengthening allied defense capabilities,
bolstering the U.S. defense industrial base, streamlining defense trade,
and deterring adversaries. These policy changes will help the United
States advance shared defense objectives with close allies, including
the implementation of AUKUS, while maintaining a strong leadership role
on nonproliferation and export control policy.

Since MTCR’s formation by the G7 nearly four decades ago, its membership
has grown to 35 countries. The MTCR was developed to reduce the threat
of nuclear weapons proliferation by limiting exports of missile delivery
systems; in 1992, the MTCR expanded to focus on the proliferation of
missiles for delivery of all types of weapons of mass destruction. The
MTCR has been, and continues to be, one of the most successful
multilateral nonproliferation regimes in effect today and a crucial
element of the post-Cold War global nonproliferation regime. As the
United States continues to advance the objectives of the MTCR
established in 1987, it will consider how the strategic environment,
advancement of missile technology, and access to technology exports have
changed since 1987.

The NSM directs the interagency to provide increased flexibility for
case-by-case review and facilitate support for certain MTCR Category I
military missiles, Unmanned Aerial Systems (UAS), and Space Launch
Vehicle (SLV) systems to certain partners with strong export control
systems.  While this support will encompass a wide range of activity,
consistent with MTCR Guidelines, it will explicitly exclude transfers of
complete production facilities that encompass all capabilities necessary
to produce a Category I system independently.

The NSM establishes that the MTCR is not designed to impede national
space programs or international cooperation in such programs as long as
such programs could not contribute to delivery systems for WMD. In
support of the U.S. Space Priorities Framework (USSPF) and the promotion
of international cooperation in space, and in accordance with the MTCR
Guidelines, transfers of MTCR Category I SLV related commodities,
software, and technology will be considered on a case-by-case basis for
select and vetted partner space programs and participation in
international space programs, whether such programs are governmental or
commercial in nature.

The NSM reaffirms the MTCR as an important mechanism and will continue
to oppose missile programs of concern, and will maintain a general
policy of not supporting the development or acquisition of MTCR Category
I military missile systems (i.e., not SLVs by non-MTCR partners
consistent with U.S. commitments under the MTCR Guidelines. The United
States will also work to stem the flow of advanced dual-use technology
or expertise to unauthorized parties, i.e., end-users and end-uses that
pose an unacceptable risk of diversion to programs and activities of
concern.

Additionally, the United States will use the MTCR, other multilateral
nonproliferation regimes, and U.S. nonproliferation and export control
laws, regulations, and policy to continue addressing regional
proliferation challenges, disrupting proliferation networks, and
addressing efforts to circumvent nonproliferation controls around the
world. In implementing the MTCR, the United States will work to ensure
the regime keeps pace with the evolution in missile technology, and
prevents the transfer of technologies that would threaten the United
States, allies, partners, and other countries around the world.

\###
