---
date: '2025-01-06'
modified_time: 2025-01-05 23:40:23-05:00
published_time: 2025-01-06 05:00:00-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2025/01/06/fact-sheet-president-biden-protects-atlantic-and-pacific-coasts-from-offshore-oil-and-gas-drilling/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: President\_Biden Protects Atlantic and Pacific Coasts from Offshore\
  \ Oil and Gas\_Drilling"
---
 
*President Biden has now conserved over 670 million acres of America’s
lands and waters, more than any other president in history*

Today President Biden will take action to protect the entire U.S. East
coast, the eastern Gulf of Mexico, the Pacific off the coasts of
Washington, Oregon, and California, and additional portions of the
Northern Bering Sea in Alaska from future oil and natural gas leasing.
In protecting more than 625 million acres of the U.S. ocean from
offshore drilling, President Biden has determined that the environmental
and economic risks and harms that would result from drilling in these
areas outweigh their limited fossil fuel resource potential. With these
withdrawals, President Biden is protecting coastal communities, marine
ecosystems, and local economies – including fishing, recreation, and
tourism – from oil spills and other impacts of offshore drilling.

Nearly forty percent of Americans live in coastal counties that rely on
a healthy ocean to thrive. With today’s action, President Biden is
ensuring that these regions can remain healthy and safe from the risk of
oil spills resulting from development that would do little, if anything,
to meet the nation’s energy needs.

Nearly 400 municipalities and over 2,300 elected local, state, Tribal,
and federal officials across the Atlantic, Pacific, and Gulf coasts have
formally opposed the expansion of offshore drilling in these areas in
view of its severe environmental, health, and economic threats. Nearly
every Governor along the East and West Coasts – Republicans and
Democrats alike – has expressed concerns about expanded oil and gas
drilling off their coastlines. In Alaska, the new Northern Bering Sea
protections are consistent with a long-standing request from more than
70 coastal Tribes based on the need to help sustain a vital and
threatened ocean area, and the natural resources it contains that
Indigenous communities have stewarded and relied on for subsistence
since time immemorial.

Following this action, President Biden will have conserved more lands
and waters than any other U.S. president in history.

**<u>Protecting the Atlantic Ocean, Pacific Ocean, Eastern Gulf of
Mexico and Northern Bering Sea from Offshore Drilling</u>**

Using his authority under Section 12(a) of the Outer Continental Shelf
Lands Act, President Biden is issuing two Presidential Memoranda to
protect all U.S. Outer Continental Shelf areas off the East and West
coasts, the eastern Gulf of Mexico, and additional portions of the
Northern Bering Sea in Alaska from future oil and natural gas leasing.
The withdrawals have no expiration date, and prohibit all future oil and
natural gas leasing in the areas withdrawn. President Biden first used
this authority in January of 2021 when he restored protections for part
of the Northern Bering Sea, and again in March 2023 to withdraw 2.8
million acres of the Beaufort Sea from future oil and gas leasing, which
completed protections for the entire U.S. Arctic Ocean.

Today’s action will safeguard three distinct ocean and coastal regions:

-   **The entire eastern U.S. Atlantic coast and the Eastern Gulf of
    Mexico.** President Biden is protecting approximately 334 million
    acres of the Atlantic Outer Continental Shelf (OCS) from Canada to
    the southern tip of Florida, and the Eastern Gulf of Mexico. There
    are currently no active oil and natural gas leases in Federal waters
    off the eastern Atlantic coast. The southern section of this
    withdrawal matches a previous Congressional withdrawal enacted by
    the Gulf of Mexico Energy Security Act of 2006, and a subsequent
    time-limited 12(a) withdrawal issued by the previous administration
    that would have expired in 2032 without today’s protections. Today’s
    withdrawal builds on those prior withdrawals and helps safeguard the
    multi-billion-dollar fishing and tourism economies in these states.
       
      
-   **The Pacific Coast along California, Oregon, and Washington.** This
    withdrawal protects nearly 250 million acres of Federal waters off
    the West Coast of the mainland U.S. that are prime habitat for
    seals, sea lions, whales, fish, and countless seabirds. The State of
    California has had a moratorium on issuing new leases in its state
    waters since 1969, and the last Federal lease sale in the area being
    withdrawn was offshore of Southern California in 1984. The Governors
    of these states have called for full protection of their coasts for
    decades.

<!-- -->

-   **The remaining portion of the Northern Bering Sea Climate
    Resilience Area in Alaska.** This withdrawal will protect 44 million
    acres of the Northern Bering Sea in far northwest Alaska that is
    home to fish, sea birds, and other wildlife and where there are no
    existing oil and gas leases. The Northern Bering Sea Climate
    Resilience Area was established in 2016 and includes one of the
    largest marine mammal migrations in the world – beluga and bowhead
    whales, walruses, and seals travel the funnel of the Bering Strait
    each year to feed and breed in the Arctic. This is an area where oil
    and gas development would pose severe dangers to coastal
    communities, and where the health of these waters is critically
    important to food security and to the culture of more than 70
    coastal Tribes, including the Yup’ik, Cup’ik, and Inupiaq people who
    have relied on these resources for millennia. The Alaskan
    Congressional delegation has opposed previous proposals to allow oil
    and gas leasing and drilling in the area.

**<u>Building on a Historic Ocean Conservation and Climate Legacy</u>**

Today’s actions build upon the Biden-Harris Administration’s ambitious
climate agenda and unprecedented commitment to protect America’s natural
wonders now and for future generations. The withdrawals advance two
important Biden-Harris Administration priorities: honoring and
protecting areas of significance to Tribal Nations and Indigenous
peoples as well as States and other stakeholders; and helping to ensure
our oceans and coasts are resilient to the threats of climate change and
nature loss. 

The Biden-Harris Administration’s climate and conservation record
includes creating three new national marine sanctuaries and a new
national estuarine research reserve, including the [Chumash Heritage
National Marine
Sanctuary](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/09/06/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-advances-chumash-heritage-national-marine-sanctuary-reinforces-ocean-conservation-legacy/)
off the coast of Central California; advancing
[designations](https://sanctuaries.noaa.gov/management/designations.html)
for four additional sanctuaries; safeguarding [Bristol Bay salmon
fisheries](https://www.epa.gov/newsreleases/biden-harris-administration-announces-action-help-protect-bristol-bay-salmon-fisheries);
approving [more than 19 gigawatts of offshore wind
projects](https://www.doi.gov/pressreleases/biden-harris-administration-approves-eleventh-offshore-wind-project-us-history),
enough to power more than 6 million homes; investing [$2.6 billion in
coastal
communities](https://www.noaa.gov/news-releases/noaa-ira-framework-2023);
and releasing the first-ever U. S. [Ocean Climate Action
Plan](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/03/Ocean-Climate-Action-Plan_Final.pdf).

With today’s withdrawals, President Biden has now conserved more than
670 million acres of U.S. lands, waters, and ocean – more than any
president in history. This includes establishing or expanding [ten
national
monuments](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/08/08/fact-sheet-president-biden-designates-baaj-nwaavjo-itah-kukveni-ancestral-footprints-of-the-grand-canyon-national-monument/) and [restoring
protections for three
more](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/03/21/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-takes-new-action-to-conserve-and-restore-americas-lands-and-waters/);
creating [six new national wildlife
refuges](https://www.doi.gov/pressreleases/interior-department-establishes-everglades-gulf-conservation-area-conserve-habitat);
protecting the [Boundary Waters of
Minnesota](https://www.doi.gov/pressreleases/biden-harris-administration-protects-boundary-waters-area-watershed),
the nation’s most visited wilderness area; and withdrawing [Chaco
Canyon](https://www.doi.gov/pressreleases/biden-harris-administration-protects-chaco-region-tribal-cultural-sites-development) in
New Mexico, [Pactola
Reservoir](https://www.usda.gov/article/biden-harris-administration-finalizes-protections-pactola-reservoir-rapid-creek-watershed)
in South Dakota, and [Thompson
Divide](https://www.doi.gov/pressreleases/biden-harris-administration-finalizes-protections-thompson-divide) in
Colorado from further mineral, oil, and gas leasing.  

These actions are helping advance the President’s [America the
Beautiful initiative](https://www.conservation.gov/pages/america-the-beautiful-initiative),
which is supporting locally led conservation efforts with a goal to
protect, conserve, and restore at least 30 percent of U.S. lands and
waters by 2030.

\###
