---
date: '2025-01-04'
modified_time: 2025-01-04 09:48:58-05:00
published_time: 2025-01-04 08:04:02-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2025/01/04/president-biden-announces-recipients-of-the-presidential-medal-of-freedom-3/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Announces Recipients of the Presidential Medal of\_Freedom"
---
 
Today, President Biden named nineteen recipients of the Presidential
Medal of Freedom.

The Presidential Medal of Freedom is the Nation’s highest civilian
honor, presented to individuals who have made exemplary contributions to
the prosperity, values, or security of the United States, world peace,
or other significant societal, public or private endeavors.

President Biden believes great leaders keep the faith, give everyone a
fair shot, and put decency above all else. These nineteen individuals
are great leaders who have made America and the world a better place.
They are great leaders because they are good people who have made
extraordinary contributions to their country and the world.

The awards will be presented at the White House on January 4, 2025. The
following individuals will be awarded the Presidential Medal of Freedom:

**<u>José Andrés </u>**

José Andrés is a renowned Spanish-American culinary innovator who
popularized tapas in the United States. His World Central Kitchen
provides large-scale relief to communities affected by natural disasters
and conflict around the world.

**<u>Bono</u>**

Bono is the frontman for legendary rock band U2 and a pioneering
activist against AIDS and poverty. He brought together politicians from
opposing parties to create the United States PEPFAR AIDS program, and is
co-founder of campaigning organizations ONE and (RED).

**<u>Ashton Baldwin Carter</u>** (posthumous)

Ash Carter served as the 25th Secretary of Defense and devoted his
career to making the nation safer for all. Throughout his career, he
served under 11 Secretaries of Defense in both Democratic and Republican
administrations.

**<u>Hillary Rodham Clinton</u>**

Secretary Clinton made history many times over decades in public
service, including as the first First Lady elected to the United States
Senate. After serving as Secretary of State, she became the first woman
nominated for president by a major United States political party.

**<u>Michael J. Fox</u>**

Michael J. Fox is an actor who has won five Emmy Awards, four Golden
Globe Awards, two Screen Actors Guild Awards, and a Grammy Award. He is
a world-renowned advocate for Parkinson’s disease research and
development.

**<u>Tim Gill</u>**

Tim Gill is a visionary entrepreneur whose work has advanced LGBTQI
rights and equality. After transforming the publishing industry through
groundbreaking software, he leveraged his success to secure key
victories in the fight for marriage equality and anti-discrimination
protections.

**<u>Jane Goodall</u>**

Dr. Jane Goodall is a world-renowned ethologist and conservationist
whose research transformed our understanding of primates and human
evolution. She is a passionate advocate for empowering individuals and
communities to protect and preserve the natural world.

**<u>Fannie Lou Hamer</u>** (posthumous)

Mrs. Fannie Lou Hamer transformed the struggle for racial justice in
America. As a founder of the Mississippi Freedom Democratic Party, she
challenged the exclusion of Black voices in the political system and
laid the groundwork for the 1965 Voting Rights Act.

**<u>Earvin “Magic” Johnson</u>**

Earvin “Magic” Johnson is a legendary retired basketball player who led
the Los Angeles Lakers to five championships. Off the court, he is a
successful entrepreneur and philanthropist who supports underserved
communities through his Magic Johnson Foundation.

**<u>Robert Francis Kennedy</u>** (posthumous)

Robert Francis Kennedy is remembered as an Attorney General who fiercely
combatted racial segregation, and as a United States Senator who sought
to address poverty and inequality in the country. His legacy continues
to inspire those committed to justice, equality, and public service.

**<u>Ralph Lauren</u>**

Ralph Lauren is a fashion designer who redefined the fashion industry
with a lifestyle brand that embodies timeless elegance and American
tradition. He has influenced culture, business, and philanthropy,
notably in the fight against cancer and the preservation of the
Star-Spangled Banner.

**<u>Lionel Messi</u>**

Lionel Messi is the most decorated player in the history of professional
soccer. He supports healthcare and education programs for children
around the world through the Leo Messi Foundation and serves as a UNICEF
Goodwill Ambassador.

**<u>William Sanford Nye</u>**

Bill Nye has inspired and influenced generations of American students as
“Bill Nye the Science Guy.” His dedication to science education
continues through his work as CEO of the Planetary Society and as a
vocal advocate for space exploration and environmental stewardship.

**<u>George W. Romney</u>** (posthumous)

George Romney was a businessman who served as the chairman and president
of American Motors Corporation. A public servant, he later served as
both the 43rd Governor of Michigan and the 3rd Secretary of Housing and
Urban Development.

**<u>David M. Rubenstein</u>**

David Rubenstein is co-founder and co-chairman of The Carlyle Group,
where he built one of the most successful global investment firms. He is
renowned for his philanthropy and generous support for the restoration
of historic landmarks and the country’s cultural institutions.

**<u>George Soros</u>**

George Soros is an investor, philanthropist, and founder of the Open
Society Foundations. Through his network of foundations, partners and
projects in more than 120 countries, Soros has focused on global
initiatives that strengthen democracy, human rights, education, and
social justice.

**<u>George Stevens, Jr. </u>**

George Stevens, Jr. is an award-winning writer, director, author, and
playwright. His career has been dedicated to preserving and celebrating
the best of American film and the performing arts, including by founding
the American Film Institute and creating the Kennedy Center Honors.

**<u>Denzel Washington</u>**

Denzel Washington is an actor, director, and producer who has won two
Academy Awards, a Tony Award, two Golden Globes, and the 2016 Cecil B.
DeMille Lifetime Achievement Award. He has also served as National
Spokesman for the Boys & Girls Clubs of America for over 25 years.

**<u>Anna Wintour</u>**

Anna Wintour is a renowned fashion icon who has led Vogue as
editor-in-chief since 1988. A champion for philanthropic causes, she is
also the leading architect behind the annual Met Gala fundraiser and
chief content officer of Condé Nast.

\###
