---
date: '2025-01-07'
modified_time: 2025-01-07 13:32:47-05:00
published_time: 2025-01-07 13:32:46-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2025/01/07/white-house-launches-u-s-cyber-trust-mark-providing-american-consumers-an-easy-label-to-see-if-connected-devices-are-cybersecure/
tags: statements-releases
title: "White\_House Launches \u201CU.S. Cyber Trust Mark\u201D, Providing American\
  \ Consumers an Easy Label to See if Connected Devices are\_Cybersecure"
---
 
*Voluntary cybersecurity labeling program for wireless interconnected
smart products, administered by the Federal Communications Commission
(FCC), will help Americans make more informed decisions about the
cybersecurity of products – from baby monitors to security systems –
they bring into their homes. * 

Today, the White House announced the launch of a cybersecurity label for
internet-connected devices, known as the U.S. Cyber Trust Mark,
completing public notice and input over the [last 18
months](https://urldefense.com/v3/__https:/www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/07/18/biden-harris-administration-announces-cybersecurity-labeling-program-for-smart-devices-to-protect-american-consumers/__;!!GFN0sa3rsbfR8OLyAw!b3BM36BGqN41MQYl3au1hbk-B0N1kXcSiImGzZff48NmmFrXk2FS3S3fBgT-9I_IMz52ntaz3sQ0u-EQTDbEE7iCYpLnYerMyVyf-yxS$).
During that time, FCC Commissioners decided in a [bipartisan and
unanimous
vote](https://urldefense.com/v3/__https:/docs.fcc.gov/public/attachments/DOC-401201A1.pdf__;!!GFN0sa3rsbfR8OLyAw!b3BM36BGqN41MQYl3au1hbk-B0N1kXcSiImGzZff48NmmFrXk2FS3S3fBgT-9I_IMz52ntaz3sQ0u-EQTDbEE7iCYpLnYerMyXRtZ72z$) to authorize the
program and adopt final rules, as well as the trademarked, distinct
shield logo that will be applied to products certified for the U.S.
Cyber Trust Mark label. In December 2024, the FCC announced the
conditional [approval of 11
companies](https://urldefense.com/v3/__https:/docs.fcc.gov/public/attachments/DA-24-1241A1.pdf__;!!GFN0sa3rsbfR8OLyAw!b3BM36BGqN41MQYl3au1hbk-B0N1kXcSiImGzZff48NmmFrXk2FS3S3fBgT-9I_IMz52ntaz3sQ0u-EQTDbEE7iCYpLnYerMyXctcenV$) as Cybersecurity
Label Administrators and the conditional [selection of UL
Solutions](https://urldefense.com/v3/__https:/docs.fcc.gov/public/attachments/DA-24-1214A1.pdf__;!!GFN0sa3rsbfR8OLyAw!b3BM36BGqN41MQYl3au1hbk-B0N1kXcSiImGzZff48NmmFrXk2FS3S3fBgT-9I_IMz52ntaz3sQ0u-EQTDbEE7iCYpLnYerMyaJ1H5zI$) as
the Lead Administrator.    

Americans have many “smart” wireless interconnected devices in their
homes, from baby monitors to home security cameras to voice-activated
assistants. These devices are part of Americans’ daily lives. But
Americans are worried about the rise of criminals remotely hacking into
home security systems to unlock doors, or malicious attackers tapping
into insecure home cameras to [illicitly record
conversations](https://urldefense.com/v3/__https:/amp.cnn.com/cnn/2024/03/09/tech/smart-home-cameras-hackers-security__;!!GFN0sa3rsbfR8OLyAw!b3BM36BGqN41MQYl3au1hbk-B0N1kXcSiImGzZff48NmmFrXk2FS3S3fBgT-9I_IMz52ntaz3sQ0u-EQTDbEE7iCYpLnYerMyRG79LW_$).
The White House launched this bipartisan effort to educate American
consumers and give them an easy way to assess the cybersecurity of such
products, as well as incentivize companies to produce more cybersecure
devise, much as EnergyStar labels did for energy efficiency. Major
electronics, appliance, and consumer product manufacturers, as well as
retailers and trade associations, have been working to increase
cybersecurity for the products they sell. The U.S. Cyber Trust Mark
program allows them to test products against established cybersecurity
criteria from the U.S. National Institute of Standards and Technology
via compliance testing by accredited labs, and earn the Cyber Trust Mark
label, providing an easy way for American consumers to see the
cybersecurity of products they choose to bring into their homes.  

Reacting to the program’s launch, leading companies are coming forward
to express their support and to help educate American consumers about
the new Cyber Trust Mark label.  

**Michael Dolan, Senior Director, Head of Enterprise Privacy & Data
Protection, Best Buy: ** 

“We see great potential in the US Cyber Trust Mark Program. It is a
positive step forward for consumers and we are excited about the
opportunity to highlight this program for our customers.”   

**Steve Downer, Vice President, Amazon: ** 

“Amazon supports the U.S. Cyber Trust Mark’s goal to strengthen consumer
trust in connected devices. We believe consumers will value seeing the
U.S. Cyber Trust Mark both on product packaging and while shopping
online. We look forward to collaborating with industry partners and the
government on consumer education efforts and implementation
strategies.” 

**Justin Brookman, Director of Technology Policy, Consumer Reports:**

“Consumer Reports is eager to see this program deliver a meaningful U.S.
Cyber Trust Mark that lets consumers know their connected devices meet
fundamental cybersecurity standards. The mark will also inform
consumers whether or not a company plans to stand behind the product
with software updates and for how long. While voluntary, Consumer
Reports hopes that manufacturers will apply for this mark, and that
consumers will look for it when it becomes available.”

The U.S. Cyber Trust Mark embodies public-private collaboration. It
connects companies, consumers, and the U.S. government by incentivizing
companies to build products securely against established security
standards and gives consumers an added measure of assurance – through
the label – that their smart device is cybersafe. The program is open
for business in 2025: companies will soon be able to submit their
products for testing to earn the label, companies like BestBuy and
Amazon will be highlighting labeled products, and consumers can look for
products bearing the Trust Mark on the shelves.  

For more information about the U.S. Cyber Trust Mark, please visit
the [dedicated
page](https://urldefense.com/v3/__https:/www.fcc.gov/CyberTrustMark__;!!GFN0sa3rsbfR8OLyAw!b3BM36BGqN41MQYl3au1hbk-B0N1kXcSiImGzZff48NmmFrXk2FS3S3fBgT-9I_IMz52ntaz3sQ0u-EQTDbEE7iCYpLnYerMyRMsE1Ui$) on FCC.gov.  

\###
