---
date: '2025-01-10'
modified_time: 2025-01-10 11:33:02-05:00
published_time: 2025-01-10 10:48:31-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2025/01/10/statement-from-deputy-national-security-advisor-for-international-economics-and-deputy-director-of-the-national-economic-council-daleep-singh-on-todays-sanctions-actions/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Statement from Deputy National Security Advisor for International Economics\
  \ and Deputy Director of the National Economic Council Daleep Singh on Today\u2019\
  s Sanctions\_Actions"
---
 
Today, the United States imposed the most significant sanctions yet on
Russia’s energy sector, by far the largest source of revenue for Putin’s
war.  These sanctions will hit hard across every key node of Russia’s
oil production and distribution chain, including against two of the four
largest Russian oil producers, dozens of oilfield service providers,
traders of Russian oil across the world, over 150 vessels moving
seaborne Russian oil, and an oil terminal that knowingly received
sanctioned oil from sanctioned vessels.  The U.S. Department of the
Treasury also announced it will rescind a provision that previously
exempted the intermediation of energy payments from our sanctions on
Russian banks.  These measures will collectively drain billions of
dollars per month from the Kremlin’s war chest and, in doing so,
intensify the costs and risks for Moscow to continue its senseless war.

Some will ask why we waited for the end of the Administration to
introduce sanctions on Russian oil. It’s a fair question. The answer is
this: for sanctions to be successful, they must be sustainable. That
doesn’t mean they should be costless – sanctions never are – but to
succeed they must impact the target more than they damage the U.S. and
global economy. Until recently, we were constrained by tight supply in
global energy markets, which meant that reducing Russia’s oil exports to
the world would likely push up Putin’s export revenues while raising
prices at the gas pump for families in the United States and across the
world.  That’s why we unveiled a novel “price cap” in December 2022 to
limit the price that Russia receives for its oil sales while keeping
steady the global supply of energy.  Oil markets are now in a
fundamentally better place. Forecasters expect the global supply of
energy to exceed global demand through this year, with ample capacity
within and outside of OPEC+ to increase production if necessary.  Since
the start of Russia’s war, benchmark oil prices have fallen almost $35
per barrel and average U.S. gasoline prices have dropped from roughly $4
to just over $3 per gallon. The moment was ripe for us to adjust our
strategy, and the President took action.  

Today’s actions build on recent steps that reinforce an economic
trajectory along which Russia will face hard choices. Last November,
President Biden levied our harshest financial sanctions against more
than 50 Russian banks, including Gazprombank, the Kremlin’s key
financial conduit to the global energy market. Nearly all of Russia’s
biggest banks with major connections abroad are now sanctioned by the
United States.  The impact was immediate and broad-based: Russia’s
currency, the ruble, sank to its weakest level since the first weeks of
the invasion, alongside a spike in borrowing costs that may unleash a
wave of corporate bankruptcies and default.  Landing a direct hit on the
Russian energy sector will aggravate pressures on Russia’s wartime
economy that have already pushed up inflation to almost 10 percent, and
which the Russian central bank has failed to stem with strict capital
controls and record-high interest rates over 20 percent.

Looking ahead, Russia’s economic outlook is bleak. Sanctions have sapped
the most essential sources of Russia’s economic vitality. But don’t take
our word for it. More than a thousand multinational companies have quit
Russia. More than a million of Russia’s own people have fled. It has
been shut out of global financial markets. It has been cut off from
cutting-edge technology. Most of its largest energy customers are gone. 
With less capital, less technology, and less talent, the endgame facing
Moscow is further descent into a smaller, weaker, and isolated pariah
state.

As the costs on Russia intensify, we’ve also taken recent action to
reduce Ukraine’s vulnerabilities.  This includes backstopping Ukraine
with economic support – and not just from our taxpayers, but also by
making Russia pay. Shortly after Russia’s invasion in 2022, G7 leaders
acted in lockstep to immobilize over $300 billion of Russian central
bank assets held in our respective jurisdictions.  Last June, President
Biden and G7 leaders committed to issue $50 billion in loans for Ukraine
that will be paid back by the interest earned on the frozen Russian
assets.  It was an historic step: never before has a multilateral
coalition frozen the assets of an aggressor country, and then harnessed
the value to fund the aggrieved party fighting for its freedom – all
while respecting the rule of law and maintaining solidarity.  Last
December, the United States finalized its $20 billion share of the G7
loans.  Separately, we’ve announced a surge of military assistance to
Ukraine through January 20, including hundreds of thousands of
additional artillery rounds, thousands of additional rockets, and
hundreds of additional armored vehicles. This will serve to exacerbate
dilemmas for Putin as he faces mounting casualties – over 600,000 since
the start of this tragic war – for minimal battlefield gains. 

Taken together, the ultimate aim of our efforts is to provide Ukraine
the leverage it needs to negotiate a just and lasting end to the war.
Today’s actions leave a solid foundation upon which the incoming
administration can build, while putting a clear choice to Russia: either
continue to absorb the escalating costs of a tragic and unnecessary war,
or take steps to chart a different course. 

\###
