---
date: '2025-01-07'
modified_time: 2025-01-06 22:35:25-05:00
published_time: 2025-01-07 05:00:00-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2025/01/07/fact-sheet-president-biden-establishes-chuckwalla-and-sattitla-highlands-national-monuments-in-california/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: President\_Biden Establishes Chuckwalla and S\xE1tt\xEDtla Highlands\
  \ National Monuments in\_California"
---
 
*President Biden has now conserved more lands and waters than any
President in history and has created the largest corridor of protected
lands in the lower 48 states, the Moab to Mojave Conservation Corridor*

Surrounded by canyon walls in the Eastern Coachella Valley, today
President Biden will sign proclamations creating the Chuckwalla National
Monument and the Sáttítla Highlands National Monument, which together
will protect 848,000 acres of lands in California of scientific,
cultural, ecological, and historical importance. These two new national
monuments add to President Biden and Vice President Harris’s
record-setting environmental legacy, including of having conserved more
lands and waters, deployed more clean energy, and made more progress in
cutting climate pollution and advancing environmental justice than any
previous administration.

Since taking office, President Biden has swiftly advanced the most
ambitious conservation agenda in U.S. history, setting and pursuing a
bold goal to conserve at least 30 percent of U.S. lands and waters by
2030 through the *America the Beautiful* initiative. President Biden
became the first sitting U.S. President to visit the Amazon Rainforest,
where he signed a proclamation designating International Conservation
Day and announced that the U.S. has surpassed his goal of providing $11
billion per year in international climate financing. With today’s
designations and yesterday’s actions to protect the East and West coasts
and the Northern Bering Sea from offshore oil and natural gas drilling,
President Biden has now protected 674 million acres of U.S. lands and
waters.

In addition to setting the high-water mark for most lands and waters
conserved in a presidential administration, establishing the Chuckwalla
National Monument in southern California is President Biden’s capstone
action to create the largest corridor of protected lands in the
continental United States, covering nearly 18 million acres stretching
approximately 600 miles. This new Moab to Mojave Conservation Corridor
protects wildlife habitat and a wide range of natural and cultural
resources along the Colorado River, across the Colorado Plateau, and
into the deserts of California. It is a vitally important cultural and
spiritual landscape that has been inhabited and traveled by Tribal
Nations and Indigenous peoples since time immemorial.

The [Moab to Mojave Conservation
Corridor](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/01/Moab-to-Mojave-Conservation-Corridor_Map.pdf)
stretches from Bears Ears National Monument and Grand
Staircase-Escalante National Monument in southwestern Utah, to which
President Biden restored protections in 2021; through Baaj Nwaavjo I’tah
Kukveni – Ancestral Footprints of the Grand Canyon National Monument in
Arizona and Avi Kwa Ame National Monument in Nevada, both established by
President Biden in 2023; and reaches the deserts and mountains of
southern California that are being protected with today’s designation of
the Chuckwalla National Monument.  

Both the Chuckwalla National Monument and the Sáttítla Highlands
National Monument, which is located in northern California’s mountainous
interior, will protect clean water for communities, honor areas of
cultural significance to Tribal Nations and Indigenous peoples, and
enhance access to nature. Today’s announcements follow years of work by
Tribal Nations, Indigenous peoples, community leaders, conservation
organizations, renewable energy companies, utilities, local businesses,
state and local officials, and members of Congress who have worked to
ensure that future generations can experience, learn from, and enjoy
these irreplaceable resources.

President Biden’s legacy also includes signing into law the largest
climate and clean energy investments ever made by any country, including
record support for climate-resilient communities and disaster
mitigation. These investments, together with hundreds of executive
actions taken by the Biden-Harris Administration, have put the U.S. in a
strong position to cut climate pollution over 50% by 2030 and over 60%
by 2035 compared to 2005 levels. Communities are feeling the benefits of
these investments and actions, which have created more than 330,000 new
clean energy jobs, saved 3.4 million American families $8.4 billion on
home clean energy upgrades, and tackled toxic pollution in communities
previously left behind.

**Establishing Chuckwalla National Monument**

The Chuckwalla National Monument will protect and preserve more than
624,000 acres of lands in southern California that hold extraordinarily
diverse ecological, cultural, and historical value. By designating this
new national monument, President Biden is enhancing outdoor access for
nearby communities, preserving critical habitat for imperiled and rare
species, and ensuring the ancestral homelands and sacred cultural
legacies of the region’s Tribal Nations endure for generations to come –
all while demonstrating that clean energy and conservation can go hand
in hand. The monument will be managed by the Department of the
Interior’s Bureau of Land Management.

The new monument will protect the ancestral homelands and cultural
landscapes of the Cahuilla, Chemehuevi, Mojave, Quechan, and Serrano
Nations, and other Indigenous peoples. The monument boundary includes
five distinct areas that together encompass sacred sites, ancient
trails, historic properties, cultural areas, religious sites,
petroglyphs, geoglyphs, and pictographs, honoring and safeguarding the
cultural and spiritual value inherent with these lands. Tribal Nations
and Indigenous peoples in the region lived, used, and traveled through
the areas protected by the monument, including the southern edge of a
travel route that stretched north and east through what are now the Avi
Kwa Ame and Baaj Nwaavjo I’tah Kukveni – Ancestral Footprints of the
Grand Canyon National Monuments.

Located just south of Joshua Tree National Park, the Chuckwalla National
Monument will be at the confluence of the Mojave and Colorado Deserts,
showcasing an awe-inspiring landscape of mountain ranges, meandering
canyons and washes, dramatic rock formations, palm oases, and
desert-wash woodlands. Its natural wonders include the Painted Canyon of
Mecca Hills, where visitors can wind through towering rock walls and
marvel at the landscape’s dramatic geologic history, and Alligator Rock,
a ridge that has served as a milestone for travelers for millennia. The
region is also home to more than 50 rare species of plants and animals,
including the desert bighorn sheep, Agassiz’s desert tortoise, and the
iconic Chuckwalla lizard, from which the monument gets its name. The new
monument will enhance the connectivity of wildlife habitat and safeguard
clean water for more than 40 million people by protecting the Colorado
River region, while providing exceptional outdoor recreation
opportunities for historically underserved communities in the Coachella
Valley.

Today’s monument designation is the latest way that the Biden-Harris
Administration is showing how conservation and clean energy can go hand
in hand. The monument upholds the balance of natural and cultural
resource protection and renewable energy development that a wide range
of stakeholders forged for the region through the Department of the
Interior’s 2016 Desert Renewable Energy Conservation Plan (DRECP). The
new national monument will allow the construction and expansion of
electric transmission and distribution within the monument to transport
clean energy to western cities. Additionally, the designation is
consistent with the continued development of renewable energy projects
sited in the DRECP’s Development Focus Areas, many of which are near or
adjacent to the monument.   

**Establishing Sáttítla Highlands National Monument**

The Sáttítla Highlands National Monument in northern California will
encompass over 224,000 acres of exceptionally varied habitat, including
parts of the Modoc, Shasta-Trinity, and Klamath National Forests. The
Sáttítla Highlands include the ancestral homelands of and are sacred to
the Pit River Tribe and Modoc Peoples. Many other Tribes and Indigenous
peoples in the region, including the Karuk, Klamath, Shasta, Siletz,
Wintu, and Yana, hold deep connections to this area. This designation
honors the sacred cultural value of these lands, while protecting the
area’s rich ecological, scientific, and historical significance. The
monument will be managed by the Department of Agriculture’s U.S. Forest
Service.

At the new monument’s core sits the Medicine Lake Volcano, a massive
dormant volcano covering an expanse roughly 10 times that of Mount St.
Helens in Washington. The region’s dramatic volcanic history has
fostered an equally dramatic landscape, dotted with cinder cones,
volcanic craters, spatter cones, and hundreds of cave-like lava tubes –
including Giant Crater, the longest known lava tube system in the world,
which originates within Sáttítla. These unique geologic features shaped
a landscape in contrast between stark unvegetated lava fields
interspersed with islands of relict forest communities, and lush,
verdant forests that offer exceptional outdoor recreation opportunities.
The volcanic geology and other features – in particular the obsidian
deposits that were shaped into blades and other tools – are central to
the spiritual beliefs and cultural practices of its Indigenous peoples. 

This otherworldly and spectacular landscape is home to many rare,
vulnerable, and culturally important flora and fauna, such as the
northern spotted owl, the Cascades frog, the long-toed salamander, and
the sugarstick, a parasitic plant associated with the roots of
old-growth conifers. Much of the rain that falls on the area filters
through the porous volcanic rock recharging underground aquifers that
are essential for protecting and storing clean water for Northern
California communities. The protection of the Sáttítla Highlands
conserves a diverse array of natural and scientific resources, ensuring
that the cultural, historical, and scientific values of this area,
shaped by its volcano, endure for the benefit of all Americans.

Both national monuments only reserve federal lands, not State or private
lands. The proclamations establishing the monuments will not affect
valid existing rights and will allow a range of other activities,
including hazardous fuels reduction in the forests of the Sáttítla
Highlands and military training in both national monuments.

**Biden-Harris Administration Conservation Accomplishments**

Today’s announcements are a capstone to four years of historic
conservation progress. Highlights from the Biden-Harris Administration’s
conservation accomplishments include:

-   **Launching the America the Beautiful initiative,** a call-to-action
    to conserve, restore, protect, and connect at least 30 percent of
    U.S. lands and waters by 2030 for the benefit of all people through
    locally led, community-designed, and partnership-driven conservation
    and restoration work. In addition to driving the historic
    conservation of 674 million acres of lands and waters, the America
    the Beautiful initiative has fostered a vast, long-lasting network
    of partners working toward this national goal. Today, the
    Administration issued the [fourth America the Beautiful annual
    report](https://www.doi.gov/media/document/america-beautiful-2024-report),
    detailing the conservation accomplishments across federal agencies
    in 2024. To support projects that conserve, restore, protect, and
    connect wildlife habitats and ecosystems while improving community
    resilience and access to nature, the Administration also launched
    the America the Beautiful Challenge, a public-private grant program
    that has awarded more than $352 million in grants to date.
    Additionally, the Administration launched
    [Conservation.gov](https://www.conservation.gov/), which is home to
    the [American Conservation and Stewardship
    Atlas](https://www.conservation.gov/pages/atlas-and-data), an
    innovative tool that offers users the ability to access a wide range
    of scientific information on biodiversity, climate change impacts,
    and equity.
-   **Launching the** [**America the Beautiful Freshwater
    Challenge**](https://www.whitehouse.gov/ceq/the-america-the-beautiful-freshwater-challenge/),
    which established national goals to protect, restore, and reconnect
    8 million acres of wetlands and 100,000 miles of rivers and streams
    by 2030. More than 235 States, Tribes, interstate organizations,
    cities, small businesses, private sector partners, nonprofits, and
    local communities have signed on to the Challenge by committing to
    advance their own policies and strategies for conserving and
    restoring America’s freshwater systems.

<!-- -->

-   **Securing historic protections in Alaska,** including [13.3 million
    acres in the western
    Arctic](https://www.blm.gov/press-release/biden-harris-administration-takes-critical-action-protect-alaska-native-subsistence)
    [and 28 million acres across the
    state](https://www.doi.gov/pressreleases/biden-harris-administration-affirms-protection-28-million-acres-public-lands-alaska),
    which are vital to the subsistence economy of Alaska Native people
    and rural communities and contain important fish and wildlife
    habitat. These protections followed President Biden’s action to
    [withdraw approximately 2.8 million acres of the Beaufort
    Sea](https://www.doi.gov/pressreleases/biden-harris-administration-announces-sweeping-protections-16-million-acres-land-and),
    ensuring the entire U.S. Arctic Ocean is off limits to new oil and
    gas leasing, as well as restoring protections for the [Tongass
    National
    Forest](https://www.usda.gov/article/biden-harris-administration-finalizes-protections-tongass-national-forest)
    to safeguard nearly 10 million acres of roadless areas in
    southeastern Alaska. Further,  the Biden-Harris Administration
    rejected the [proposed Ambler Road
    project](https://www.doi.gov/pressreleases/biden-harris-administration-takes-steps-protect-tribal-subsistence-vital-ecosystems),
    which would have traversed 211 miles of significant wildlife habitat
    and pristine waters that are vital for the subsistence activities of
    Tribal communities along the iconic Brooks Range in north central
    Alaska.
-   **Protecting 15 national monuments,** including the establishment of
    ten new national monuments, the expansion of two existing national
    monuments, and the restoration of three more. President Biden’s
    protection of national monuments through his authorities under the
    Antiquities Act have safeguarded a total of nearly 9 million acres
    of federal lands and waters. These new national monuments conserve
    the special, unique lands, histories, and sacred sites that
    represent our nation. [Baaj Nwaavjo I’tah Kukveni – Ancestral
    Footprints of the Grand Canyon National
    Monument](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/08/08/fact-sheet-president-biden-designates-baaj-nwaavjo-itah-kukveni-ancestral-footprints-of-the-grand-canyon-national-monument/)
    in Arizona and [Avi Kwa Ame National
    Monument](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/03/21/fact-sheet-president-biden-designates-avi-kwa-ame-national-monument/)
    in Nevada honor the sacred, culturally important lands for
    Indigenous communities who have stewarded the landscape for
    millennia. [Camp Hale – Continental Divide National
    Monument](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2022/10/12/fact-sheet-president-biden-designates-camp-hale-continental-divide-national-monument/)
    in Colorado and the [Castner Range National
    Monument](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/03/21/fact-sheet-president-biden-designates-castner-range-national-monument/)
    in Texas expand contiguous wildlife habitat, increase outdoor
    access, and honor our nation’s veterans. The [Emmett Till and Mamie
    Till-Mobley National
    Monument](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2023/07/25/fact-sheet-president-biden-designates-emmett-till-and-mamie-till-mobley-national-monument/)
    in Illinois and Mississippi, the [Springfield 1908 Race Riot
    National
    Monument](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/08/16/fact-sheet-president-biden-designates-springfield-1908-race-riot-national-monument/)
    in Illinois, the [Frances Perkins National
    Monument](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/12/16/fact-sheet-president-biden-designates-frances-perkins-national-monument/)
    in Maine, and the [Carlisle Federal Indian Boarding School National
    Monument](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/12/09/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-announces-new-actions-and-historic-progress-supporting-tribal-nations-and-native-communities-ahead-of-fourth-annual-white-house-tribal-nations-summit/)
    in Pennsylvania help ensure our national park sites tell a more
    complete story of our nation. Expanding the [San Gabriel Mountains
    and Berryessa Snow Mountain National
    Monuments](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/05/02/fact-sheet-president-biden-expands-san-gabriel-mountains-national-monument-and-berryessa-snow-mountain-national-monument/)
    in California adds unparalleled value to these already beloved
    places and enhances outdoor access to nearby underserved and
    disadvantaged communities. In 2021, President Biden also restored
    the [Bears Ears National Monument, Grand Staircase-Escalante
    National Monument, and Northeast Canyons and Seamounts Marine
    National
    Monument](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2021/10/07/fact-sheet-president-biden-restores-protections-for-three-national-monuments-and-renews-american-leadership-to-steward-lands-waters-and-cultural-resources/).
-   **Establishing three National Marine Sanctuaries** **and a new
    national estuarine research reserve.** This includes the [Chumash
    Heritage National Marine
    Sanctuary](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/09/06/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administration-advances-chumash-heritage-national-marine-sanctuary-reinforces-ocean-conservation-legacy/)
    off the central California coast, which holds deep cultural and
    historical significance to the region’s Indigenous Peoples and will
    be managed with the active involvement of Tribes and Indigenous
    communities, inclusive of Indigenous Knowledge, values, and
    traditions. The Lake Ontario and Wisconsin Shipwreck Coast National
    Marine Sanctuaries celebrate our nation’s maritime heritage, and the
    Connecticut National Estuarine Research Reserve protects part of
    Long Island Sound and the Thames and Connecticut Rivers.  

<!-- -->

-   **Protecting American’s ocean and coasts from offshore oil and
    natural gas drilling**, including [more than 625 million
    acres](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2025/01/06/fact-sheet-president-biden-protects-atlantic-and-pacific-coasts-from-offshore-oil-and-gas-drilling/)
    across the entire U.S. Atlantic coast, the eastern Gulf of Mexico
    off Florida’s coast; the Pacific Ocean off the coasts of Washington,
    Oregon, and California; additional portions of the Northern Bering
    Sea in Alaska; and the entire U.S. Arctic Ocean. 

<!-- -->

-   **Advancing Tribal co-stewardship of federal lands** through a
    [joint secretarial
    order](https://www.doi.gov/pressreleases/interior-and-agriculture-departments-take-action-strengthen-tribal-co-stewardship#:~:text=WASHINGTON%20%E2%80%94%20During%20today's%20White%20House,by%20strengthening%20the%20role%20of)
    between the Departments of the Interior, Agriculture, and Commerce,
    resulting in a historic 400 co-stewardship and co-management
    agreements between Tribal Nations and federal land management
    agencies. These agreements strengthen the role of Tribal communities
    on their ancestral homelands, allowing for improved stewardship of
    public lands, waters, and wildlife. The Biden-Harris Administration
    also released a first-of-its kind guidance to federal agencies on
    the inclusion and recognition of [Indigenous
    Knowledge](https://www.whitehouse.gov/ceq/news-updates/2022/12/01/white-house-releases-first-of-a-kind-indigenous-knowledge-guidance-for-federal-agencies/)
    in federal research, policy, and decision-making.  
      
-   **Protecting the health and resilience of forests** by issuing an
    [Executive Order on Strengthening the Nation’s Forests, Communities,
    and Local
    Economies](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/04/22/executive-order-on-strengthening-the-nations-forests-communities-and-local-economies/)
    and completing the first-ever [inventory of mature and old-growth
    forests](https://www.usda.gov/article/biden-harris-administration-announces-new-steps-climate-resilience-and-forest-conservation),
    which will help foster forest conservation and enhance forest
    resilience to climate change.

<!-- -->

-   **Restoring wild salmon, steelhead, and other native fish** in the
    [Columbia River
    Basin](https://www.whitehouse.gov/ceq/news-updates/2023/12/14/biden-harris-administration-announces-ten-year-partnership-with-tribes-states-to-restore-wild-salmon-expand-clean-energy-production-increase-resilience-and-provide-energy-stability-in-the-col/)
    in partnership with Pacific Northwest Tribes and States. Implemented
    through a historic agreement, this work will also facilitate the
    development of Tribally sponsored clean energy production and
    provide stability for communities that depend on the Columbia River
    System. The Administration committed more than $1 billion to the
    effort, which will, among other things, be used to restore
    freshwater habitat. The Administration also restored salmon to the
    Klamath River Basin for the first time in over 100 years.

<!-- -->

-   **Protecting the nation’s special places** from damage from oil and
    gas drilling and hard rock mining, including [Bristol
    Bay](https://www.epa.gov/newsreleases/biden-harris-administration-announces-action-help-protect-bristol-bay-salmon-fisheries) in
    Alaska; the [Boundary
    Waters](https://www.doi.gov/pressreleases/interior-department-takes-action-mineral-leases-improperly-renewed-watershed-boundary)
    in Minnesota; [Chaco
    Canyon](https://www.doi.gov/pressreleases/biden-harris-administration-protects-chaco-region-tribal-cultural-sites-development)
    and [Placitas
    Area](https://www.blm.gov/announcement/public-land-order-no-7940-placitas-area-withdrawal-new-mexico)
    in New Mexico; the [Pactola
    Reservoir](https://www.doi.gov/pressreleases/biden-harris-administration-finalizes-protections-pactola-reservoir-rapid-creek)
    in the Black Hills of South Dakota; and the [Thompson
    Divide](https://www.usda.gov/media/press-releases/2024/04/03/biden-harris-administration-finalizes-protections-thompson-divide)
    in Colorado. The Administration also initiated public processes to
    protect the [Pecos
    Watershed](https://www.blm.gov/press-release/secretary-haaland-initiates-two-year-protection-pecos-river-watershed-mining-claims)
    in New Mexico and the [Ruby
    Mountains](https://www.doi.gov/pressreleases/biden-harris-administration-proposes-protections-ruby-mountains#:~:text=The%20approval%20of%20the%20petition,in%20the%20Ruby%20Mountains%20area.)
    in Nevada. By protecting these lands from the risks posed by
    drilling and mining, the Biden-Harris Administration is keeping
    these iconic landscapes intact for future generations to explore,
    learn from, and cherish.

<!-- -->

-   **Creating** **six new national wildlife refuges,** including the
    [Everglades to Gulf Conservation
    Area](https://www.doi.gov/pressreleases/interior-department-establishes-everglades-gulf-conservation-area-conserve-habitat)
    in southwest Florida, the [Wyoming Toad Conservation
    Area](https://www.doi.gov/pressreleases/interior-department-announces-establishment-two-new-national-wildlife-refuges-wyoming)
    in Wyoming, the [Paint Rock River National Wildlife
    Refuge](https://www.doi.gov/pressreleases/interior-department-announces-establishment-two-new-national-wildlife-refuges-wyoming)
    in Tennessee, the [Lost Trail Conservation Area in
    Montana](https://www.doi.gov/pressreleases/secretary-haaland-announces-expansion-national-wildlife-refuge-system-lost-trail),
    and the [Southern Maryland Woodlands National Wildlife
    Refuge](https://www.fws.gov/press-release/2024-12/secretary-haaland-establishes-southern-maryland-woodlands-national-wildlife)
    in Maryland. The Administration has also announced the expansion of
    several existing national wildlife refuges, which will allow for the
    voluntary conservation of up to 1.13 million acres of important
    wildlife habitat.   

<!-- -->

-   **Advancing nature-based solutions to combat climate change,**
    including byreleasing the [Nature-Based Solutions
    Roadmap](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/12/Nature-Based-Solutions-Resource-Guide-2.0-FINAL.pdf)
    and accompanying [Resource
    Guide](https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2023/12/Nature-Based-Solutions-Resource-Guide-2.0-FINAL.pdf).
    The Administration also began the first-ever [National Nature
    Assessment and Natural Capital
    Accounting](https://www.whitehouse.gov/ostp/news-updates/2022/04/24/accounting-for-nature-on-earth-day-2022/)
    and invested over $1 billion in [Urban and Community Forestry
    Program](https://www.usda.gov/article/biden-harris-administration-invests-1-billion-nearly-400-projects-expand-access-trees-and-green)
    grants to plant and maintain trees, combat extreme heat and climate
    change, and improve access to nature in cities, towns, and suburbs
    where people live, work, and play. These efforts will allow us to
    better understand and recognize the full value of nature, allowing
    for more effective conservation efforts.

<!-- -->

-   **Issuing a new Public Lands Rule to guide the balanced management
    of America’s public lands.** In developing these critical reforms,
    the Department of the Interior [recognized conservation as an
    essential
    component](https://www.doi.gov/pressreleases/biden-harris-administration-finalizes-strategy-guide-balanced-management-conservation)
    of its management of our country’s public lands, which will result
    in increased protection of clean water and wildlife habitat; the
    restoration of degraded lands and waters; and a more informed
    decision-making process, based on science, data, and Indigenous
    Knowledge. In parallel, the Biden-Harris Administration [approved 45
    renewable energy projects on public
    lands](https://www.doi.gov/pressreleases/interior-department-finalizes-framework-future-solar-development-public-lands),
    exceeded the goal to permit 25 gigawatts of renewable energy by
    2025, and issued a final Renewable Energy Rule that will incentivize
    developers to continue responsibly developing solar and wind
    projects on public lands – efforts that all simultaneously advance
    conservation and clean energy goals. 

<!-- -->

-   **Launching the American Climate Corps,** a groundbreaking workforce
    training and service initiative that has [put thousands of young
    people](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/09/25/fact-sheet-during-climate-week-biden-harris-administration-announces-continued-progress-on-the-american-climate-corps/)
    to work in good-paying jobs in clean energy, conservation, and
    resilience. Across the country, American Climate Corps members are
    working on projects to tackle the climate crisis, including
    restoring coastal ecosystems, strengthening urban and rural
    agriculture, investing in clean energy and energy efficiency,
    improving disaster and wildfire preparedness, and more. The American
    Climate Corps is giving a diverse new generation of young people the
    tools to fight the impacts of climate change today and the skills to
    join the clean energy and climate-resilience workforce of tomorrow.

<!-- -->

-   **Financing the largest debt-for-nature deal in U.S. history**
    through a transaction supported by the U.S. International
    Development Financing Corporation (DFC) that will generate [$460
    million to conserve terrestrial and freshwater
    ecosystems](https://dfc.gov/media/press-releases/dfc-announces-1-billion-political-risk-insurance-ecuadors-first-debt)
    in the Ecuadorian Amazon, while resulting in more than $800 million
    in debt relief for Ecuador. This is the fifth major debt-for-nature
    swap – an arrangement that allows sovereigns to repurchase debt at a
    discount in exchange for policy and investment commitments to
    conservation – executed during the Biden-Harris Administration.
    These transactions have been catalyzed by more than $3.5 billion in
    political risk insurance and have supported debt sustainability and
    nature in Belize, Ecuador (Amazon and Galápagos), Gabon, and El
    Salvador. President Biden helped pioneer the concept for these
    transactions during his time in the Senate – and since then, they
    have protected nearly 70 million acres of forests and sacred marine
    ecosystems worldwide, such as the Galápagos Marine Reserve and the
    Belize Barrier Reef.

\###
