---
date: '2025-01-02'
published_time: 2025-01-02 11:28:59-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2025/01/02/president-biden-announces-recipients-of-the-presidential-citizens-medal/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Announces Recipients of the Presidential Citizens\_Medal"
---
 
WASHINGTON – Today, President Biden named twenty recipients of the
Presidential Citizens Medal.

The Presidential Citizens Medal is awarded to citizens of the United
States of America who have performed exemplary deeds of service for
their country or their fellow citizens. President Biden believes these
Americans are bonded by their common decency and commitment to serving
others. The country is better because of their dedication and sacrifice.

The awards will be presented at the White House on January 2, 2025. The
following individuals will be awarded the Presidential Citizens Medal:

**<u>Mary L. Bonauto</u>**

Attorney and activist Mary Bonauto first fought to legalize same-sex
marriage in Vermont, Massachusetts, Connecticut, and Maine before
arguing before the Supreme Court in *Obergefell v. Hodges*, which
established marriage equality as the law of the land. Her efforts made
millions of families whole and forged a more perfect Union.****

**<u>Bill Bradley</u>**

Raised in small-town Missouri, Bill Bradley showed a dedication to
basketball that would define his courage, discipline, and selflessness.
A two-time NBA Champion and Hall-of-Fame New York Knick, he served three
terms as a United States Senator from New Jersey and was a candidate for
president, advancing tax reform, water rights, civil rights, and more,
while still today seeking to deepen our common humanity with humility
and heart.

**<u>Frank K. Butler, Jr.</u>**

As a pioneering innovator, Navy Seal, and leader in dive medicine, Dr.
Frank Butler introduced Tactical Combat Casualty Care to the medical
world that set new standards for tourniquet use not only for injuries in
war, but injuries across daily civilian life. He has transformed
battlefield trauma care for the United States military and saved
countless lives.

**<u>Elizabeth L. Cheney</u>**

Throughout two decades in public service, including as a Congresswoman
for Wyoming and Vice Chair of the Committee on the January 6 attack, Liz
Cheney has raised her voice—and reached across the aisle—to defend our
Nation and the ideals we stand for: Freedom. Dignity. And decency. Her
integrity and intrepidness remind us all what is possible if we work
together.****

**<u>Christopher J. Dodd</u>**

Chris Dodd has served our Nation with distinction for more than 50 years
as a United States Congressman, Senator, respected lawyer, and diplomat.
From advancing childcare, to reforming our financial markets, to
fostering partnerships across the Western Hemisphere—he has stood watch
over America as a beacon to the world.****

**<u>Diane Carlson Evans</u>**

After serving as an Army nurse during the Vietnam War, Diane Carlson
Evans founded the Vietnam Women’s Memorial Foundation to ensure female
service members received the recognition they deserve—one of our
Nation’s most sacred obligations. Her duty and devotion embody the very
best of who we are as Americans.****

**<u>Joseph L. Galloway</u>** (posthumous)

From Vietnam to the Persian Gulf, Joe Galloway spent decades sharing
first-hand accounts of horror, humanity, and heroism in battle. Known as
the soldier’s reporter and the soldier’s friend, he embedded with
American troops, rescued wounded soldiers under fire, and became the
only civilian awarded a Bronze Star for combat valor by the United
States Army as one of the most respected war correspondents of his era.

**<u>Nancy Landon Kassebaum</u>**

The first woman to represent Kansas, Nancy Kassebaum was a force in the
United States Senate. From supporting a woman’s right to choose to
reforming health care, she stood up for what she believed in even if it
meant standing alone, and she reached across the aisle to do what she
believed was right.****

**<u>Ted Kaufman</u>**

For decades, including as a United States Senator from Delaware, Ted
Kaufman has served the Nation with honesty and integrity. A master of
the Senate who championed everyday Americans and public servants, he’s
been at the forefront of consequential debates about the courts, the
financial system, and more.

**<u>Carolyn McCarthy</u>**

As a nurse, Carolyn McCarthy had an instinct to heal and serve. When her
husband and son were shot on a local commuter train, she became an
advocate so persuasive that she was recruited to run for Congress. She
served 18 years, championing gun safety measures including improved
background checks, as a citizen legislator devoted to protecting our
Nation’s welfare.****

**<u>Louis Lorenzo Redding</u>** (posthumous)

A groundbreaking civil rights advocate, Louis was the first Black
attorney admitted to the bar in Delaware, where he argued against
segregation in the seminal cases of *Bulah v. Gebhart* and *Belton v.
Gebhart*—laying the legal framework for Brown v. Board of Education. A
towering figure and a generous mentor, he opened doors of equity and
opportunity for all Americans.****

**<u>Bobby Sager</u>**

A Boston native, Bobby Sager travels the world as a photographer and
philanthropist grounded in family and empathy, wielding his camera and
influence to connect with people in war-torn countries, capture their
hope and humanity, and inspire others to take action and see a fuller
portrait of the planet we all share.****

**<u>Collins J. Seitz</u>** (posthumous)

As a state judge in Delaware, Judge Seitz became the first judge in
America to integrate a white public school, dismantling the doctrine of
“separate but equal” with exacting detail and reverence for the equal
protection clause of the 14th Amendment of our Constitution. His brave
ruling tore down walls of separation to help us see each other as fellow
Americans.****

**<u>Eleanor Smeal</u>**

From leading massive protests and galvanizing women’s votes in the 1970s
to steering progress for equal pay and helping the Violence Against
Women Act become law, Ellie Smeal forced the Nation to not only include
women in political discourse but to value them as power brokers and
equals. Her strategic vision over more than 40 years embodies the
American pursuit to create a fairer, more just world.****

**<u>Bennie G. Thompson</u>**

Born and raised in a segregated Mississippi, as a college student
inspired by the Civil Rights movement, Bennie Thompson volunteered on
campaigns and registered southern Black voters. That call to serve
eventually led him to Congress, where he chaired the House January 6th
Committee—at the forefront of defending the rule of law with unwavering
integrity and a steadfast commitment to truth.****

**<u>Mitsuye Endo Tsutsumi</u>** (posthumous)

In a shameful chapter in our Nation’s history, Mitsuye Endo was
incarcerated alongside more than 120,000 Japanese Americans. Undaunted,
she challenged the injustice and reached the Supreme Court. Her resolve
allowed thousands of Japanese Americans to return home and rebuild their
lives, reminding us that we are a Nation that stands for freedom for
all.****

**<u>Thomas J. Vallely</u>**

A United States Marine during the Vietnam War, Thomas Vallely has never
given up on peace. Over the course of five decades, he has brought
Vietnam and the United States together—establishing Fulbright University
Vietnam, fostering greater economic and cultural exchange, and
overcoming the perils of the past to seize the promise of the future.
His service remains a symbol of American leadership in the world.****

**<u>Frances M. Visco</u>**

As president of the National Breast Cancer Coalition, Fran Visco has
fought tirelessly and fearlessly to increase Federal funding for breast
cancer research, early detection education, and access to women’s
healthcare. As a breast cancer survivor, she turned pain into purpose,
changed the landscape of breast cancer advocacy, and has become a
powerful symbol of hope for the Nation.****

**<u>Paula S. Wallace</u>**

A lifelong educator and trailblazer of the arts, Paula Wallace dreamt of
a school that would transform how we think about professional education.
By establishing the esteemed Savannah College of Art and Design and
serving as its president, she has guided thousands of students into
creative industries.

**<u>Evan Wolfson</u>**

By leading the marriage equality movement, Evan Wolfson helped millions
of people in all 50 states win the fundamental right to love, marry, and
be themselves. For 32 years, starting with a visionary law school
thesis, Evan Wolfson worked with singular focus and untiring optimism to
change not just the law, but society—pioneering a political playbook for
change and sharing its lessons, even now, with countless causes
worldwide.

\###
