---
date: '2025-01-03'
modified_time: 2025-01-03 10:54:32-05:00
published_time: 2025-01-03 10:54:31-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2025/01/03/president-biden-to-award-medal-of-honor-2/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden to Award Medal of\_Honor"
---
 
On January 3, 2025, President Joseph R. Biden, Jr. will award the Medal
of Honor to seven U.S. Army Soldiers:  Private Bruno R. Orig
(posthumous), Private First Class Wataru Nakamura (posthumous), Corporal
Fred B. McGee (posthumous), Private First Class Charles R. Johnson
(posthumous), retired General Richard E. Cavazos (posthumous), Captain
Hugh R. Nelson, Jr. (posthumous), and Specialist Fourth Class Kenneth J.
David.    

**Private Bruno R. Orig** will receive the Medal of Honor posthumously
for acts of gallantry and intrepidity above and beyond the call of duty,
while serving with Company G, 23d Infantry Regiment, 2d Infantry
Division in the vicinity of Chipyong-ni, Korea, on February 15, 1951. 
While returning from a wire laying mission, Private Orig observed a
number of his comrades who had been wounded in a fierce enemy attack
that was still in progress. With complete disregard for his own safety,
he went to the aid of these men and remained in an exposed position in
order to administer first aid.  With the assistance of several comrades
from the company command post, he began removing the wounded to a place
of safety.  While returning from one of these trips, he noticed that all
except one man of a machine-gun crew had been wounded. Without
hesitation, he volunteered to man the weapon. Remaining in this
position, he placed such effective fire on the enemy that a withdrawing
friendly platoon was able to move back without a single casualty. 
Private Orig continued to inflict heavy casualties on the enemy until
their company positions were overrun. Later that day, when the lost
ground was recaptured, Private Orig was found dead beside his weapon,
and the area in front of his gun was littered with enemy dead. 

**Private First Class Wataru Nakamura** will receive the Medal of Honor
posthumously for acts of gallantry and intrepidity above and beyond the
call of duty, while serving with Company I, 38th Infantry Regiment, 2d
Infantry Division in the vicinity of P’ungch’on-ni, Korea on May 18,
1951.  At daybreak on May 18, 1951, Private First Class Nakamura
volunteered to check and repair a communications line between his
platoon and the command post. As he made his way along the line in the
early morning half-light, he was brought under fire by an enemy force
that had surrounded friendly positions and was threatening to break the
company defense lines. Immediately, without regard for his own safety
and without waiting for help, he rushed the enemy with fixed bayonet
engaged.  Singlehandedly, he attacked and destroyed a hostile
machine-gun nest and drove the enemy from several of the bunkers they
had captured.  When his ammunition was depleted, he withdrew under
intense enemy fire.  Then he met an ammunition party ascending the hill.
Quickly briefing the officer in charge, Private Nakamura rearmed himself
and, covered by the fire of the officer in charge and two comrades,
returned to the attack.  In a fierce charge, he killed three of the
enemy in one bunker and killed and seriously wounded another in the last
enemy-held bunker.  Continuing to press the attack, he was killed by an
enemy grenade. 

**Corporal Fred B. McGee** will receive the Medal of Honor posthumously
for acts of gallantry and intrepidity near Tang-Wan-Ni, Korea, on June
16, 1952, in an assault on enemy fortified positions.  As gunner on a
light machine gun in a weapons squad, Corporal McGee delivered a heavy
volume of supporting fire from an exposed position despite intense enemy
machine-gun and mortar fire directly on his location. Though forced to
move his gun several times, he continued to support the assault and give
covering fire to the assault elements of his platoon.  When his squad
leader was wounded, he assumed command and moved the squad even farther
forward to a more exposed position in order to deliver neutralizing fire
on an enemy machine gun that was sweeping another assault platoon with
deadly flanking fire.  When Corporal McGee’s machine gunner was mortally
wounded, he took over the gun. On order, he directed his squad to
withdraw and voluntarily remained behind to help evacuate the wounded
and dead.      Though he was wounded in the face, he heroically exposed
himself by standing straight up in intense enemy machine-gun and mortar
fire and attempting to evacuate the body of the company runner.   Forced
to abandon the body of the company runner, he aided in moving a wounded
man to the rear to safety through a huge volume of enemy mortar and
artillery fire.

**Private First Class Charles R. Johnson** will receive the Medal of
Honor posthumously for acts of gallantry and intrepidity beyond the call
of duty while serving as a Browning Automatic Rifleman with Company B,
15th Infantry Regiment, 3d Infantry Division, Republic of Korea, June
11-12, 1953.  During the night of June 11, Chinese forces attacked
Private First Class Johnson’s unit during a massive nighttime assault.
During the ensuing battle, overwhelming numbers of Chinese troops
assaulted the trenches and bunkers that were defended by Private First
Class Johnson and his squad.  Wounded from a direct artillery hit on his
bunker and subsequently from a hand grenade thrown inside the bunker,
Private First Class Johnson, without regard for his own injuries,
administered first aid to those more seriously injured.  Understanding
the seriousness of the situation and under direct fire from the enemy,
Private First Class Johnson personally dragged a wounded soldier to the
safety of a secure bunker, stopping intermittently to aid injured
soldiers and kill several enemy members in hand-to-hand combat.
 Recognizing their untenable situation and disregarding his personal
safety, Private First Class Johnson exited the bunker, placing himself
between the enemy and his injured comrades to hold off the enemy as best
as he could.  Private First Class Johnson’s brave and selfless efforts
were credited with saving the lives of as many as 10 soldiers.   Private
First Class Johnson was killed in action in the early morning of June
12, 1953.

**Then-First Lieutenant Richard E. Cavazos** will receive the Medal of
Honor posthumously for acts of gallantry and intrepidity above and
beyond the call of duty while serving as the Company Commander, Company
E, 2d Battalion, 65th Infantry Regiment, 3d Infantry Division, on June
14 and 15, 1953, in the vicinity of Sagimak, Korea.  On the night of
June 14, 1953, Lieutenant Cavazos led his men in a raid on the
entrenched enemy, upon whom heavy casualties were inflicted.  When a
heavy barrage was laid on the position by the enemy, Lieutenant Cavazos
withdrew the company and regrouped his men.  Lieutenant Cavazos twice
more led the company through the heavy barrage in assaults on the enemy
position, each time destroying vital enemy equipment and personnel. 
When the United Nations element was ordered to withdraw, Lieutenant
Cavazos remained alone on the enemy outpost to search the area for
missing men. Exposed to heavy hostile fire, Lieutenant Cavazos located
five battle casualties.  He evacuated them, one at a time, to a point on
the reverse slope of the hill from which they could be removed to
safety.  Lieutenant Cavazos then made four more trips between the United
Nations position and the enemy-held hill, searching for casualties and
evacuating scattered groups of men who had become confused. Not until he
was assured that the hill was cleared did he get treatment for the
wounds sustained during the action.  Lieutenant Cavazos went on to serve
for over thirty years, attaining the rank of four-star General.  He
retired from military service in 1984 and died on October 29, 2017, in
San Antonio, Texas, at age 88.  On May 9, 2023, Fort Hood was renamed
Fort Cavazos in honor of General Cavazos.   

**Captain Hugh R. Nelson, Jr.** will receive the Medal of Honor
posthumously for acts of gallantry and intrepidity above and beyond the
call of duty while serving as a member of the 114th Aviation Company
(Airmobile Light) on June 5, 1966, near Moc Hoa, Republic of Vietnam. 
Captain Nelson was acting as Aircraft Commander of an armed Huey
helicopter when it was struck by hostile gun fire, crash landed in the
middle of many enemy positions, and had all weapons destroyed in the
crash. Captain Nelson exited the aircraft to aid his three wounded
comrades: two Specialists and a pilot. He ignored his own injuries,
debarked the aircraft, and started to evacuate his fellow soldiers.

Proceeding to the left side of the aircraft, he removed a dazed
Specialist who had been pinned in the cargo compartment. After placing
the Specialist on the ground and observing that the injured pilot had
managed to get out of the aircraft, he climbed into the severely damaged
helicopter to assist the other Specialist who was still trapped in the
aircraft.  Although the enemy began a heavy volume of automatic and
small arms fire at a range of approximately 30 feet from the aircraft,
he continued his brave efforts until he freed the second trapped
Specialist.  He then forced the second Specialist to the ground while
using his own body as a human shield to cover his comrade. Captain
Nelson was killed by the gun fire, while the Specialist survived. He
saved the life of his fellow soldier at the sacrifice of his own. 
Captain Nelson’s selfless sacrifice allowed his wounded comrade to use a
smoke grenade to signal supporting aircraft in the area, which responded
immediately and successfully evacuated the three wounded crew members
and Captain Nelson’s remains.    

**Then-Private First Class Kenneth J. David** will receive the Medal of
Honor for acts of gallantry and intrepidity while serving as a
radio-telephone operator during contact with an enemy force near Fire
Support Base Maureen, Thua Thien Province, Republic of Vietnam, on May
7, 1970.  Private First Class David’s company came under an intense
attack from a large hostile force, which resulted in numerous friendly
casualties.  He immediately took up a position to engage the enemy in
such a way to draw fire away from his comrades.  Without regard for his
own life, he moved to a position in front of the perimeter and just to
the south. Surrounded on three sides by the larger enemy force, he
engaged them with his rifle and hand grenades.  When the enemy attempted
to concentrate their fire on the wounded, Private First Class David
jumped from his position and yelled to draw the fire back to himself.
During this time, he was wounded by an incoming satchel charge.  His
comrades came to his aid, but he assured them he was able to continue
the fight. He continued to draw the enemy fire away from the friendly
Medevac helicopters that were trying to land. It was not until the last
helicopter was landing that he retreated from his position in front of
the perimeter and continued laying down fire until finally being
evacuated himself.

**ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ABOUT THE MEDAL OF HONOR**:

The Medal of Honor is awarded to members of the armed forces who
distinguish themselves conspicuously by gallantry and intrepidity at the
risk of their own lives above and beyond the call of duty while:

-   engaged in an action against an enemy of the United States;

<!-- -->

-   engaged in military operations involving conflict with an opposing
    foreign force; or

<!-- -->

-   serving with friendly foreign forces engaged in an armed conflict
    against an opposing armed force in which the United States is not a
    belligerent party.

The meritorious conduct must involve great personal bravery or
self-sacrifice so conspicuous as to clearly distinguish the individual
above his or her comrades and must have involved risk of life.  There
must be incontestable proof of the performance of the meritorious
conduct, and each recommendation for the award must be considered on the
standard of extraordinary merit.

\###
