---
date: '2025-01-10'
modified_time: 2025-01-09 21:11:17-05:00
published_time: 2025-01-10 08:00:00-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2025/01/10/fact-sheet-biden-harris-administrations-historic-investments-in-puerto-ricos-energy-grid/
tags: statements-releases
title: "Fact Sheet: Biden-\u2060Harris Administration\u2019s Historic Investments\
  \ in Puerto Rico\u2019s Energy\_Grid"
---
 
From the first day in office, the Biden-Harris Administration has been
committed to supporting the recovery and modernization of Puerto Rico’s
energy infrastructure. From unlocking billions of dollars in disaster
funding, to enacting historic investments under the Inflation Reduction
Act and the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, the Biden-Harris
Administration’s efforts are increasing Puerto Ricans’ access to
reliable energy, improving the island’s grid infrastructure, and
boosting the local energy sector workforce with good-paying jobs, all
while ensuring that the needs of Puerto Rico’s most vulnerable
communities are supported in this recovery.

**Putting Long-Awaited Disaster Recovery Funds to Work**

The Biden Administration has taken historic action to accelerate the
reconstruction of Puerto Rico’s grid following the devastation caused by
Hurricane Maria in 2017 by unlocking billions of dollars in disaster
recovery funds, which had been held back between 2017 and 2020 through
unfair and unnecessary restrictions. Since 2021, the Biden-Harris
Administration has worked closely with the Puerto Rico government to
streamline and accelerate recovery spending, resulting in critical
projects that are bolstering the reliability and resilience of Puerto
Rico’s grid.

To date, the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has obligated
over $6 billion out of $9.5 billion approved for the Puerto Rico
Electric Power Authority (PREPA) through the **Hurricane Maria**
**Public Assistance Program**. Obligated funds are supporting nearly 200
projects to improve the reliability and resilience of Puerto Rico’s grid
including [an initiative to replace 1.5 million
meters](https://www.fema.gov/press-release/20231211/fema-approved-project-replace-15-million-prepa-meters)
with smart technology to enable faster detection of energy service
interruptions, and the deployment of 430 megawatts (MW) of 4-hour
battery storage systems to enhance grid stability and reduce reliance on
more expensive backup power. Through the Public Assistance program, FEMA
also financed the acquisition of 14 generators for temporary use with a
capacity to produce about 340 MW to address urgent generation shortfalls
and provide stability while critical repairs to existing generation
plants are completed.

FEMA has also made an additional $7.6 billion available through the
**Hurricane Maria** **Hazard Mitigation Program** for projects designed
to make the grid more resilient to future disasters. This includes
funding for a state-of-the-art [microgrid system for the island
municipalities of Vieques and
Culebra](https://www.fema.gov/press-release/20230329/biden-harris-administration-fema-approve-over-102-million-phase-1-solar)
to minimize the impact of future power outages, improving the quality of
life for over 9,000 residents. The microgrid, which will be able to
function independently from the main grid, includes a 12.5 MW
solar-based system for Vieques and another 3 MW system for Culebra. 

Since 2021, the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) has
authorized the use of over $2.8 billion in Community Development Block
Grants for Disaster Recovery and Mitigation to address the energy needs
of the most impacted areas and to low- and moderate-income (LMI)
communities. Of this, a total of $500 million is being used for the
[**Energy Grid Rehabilitation and Reconstruction Cost Share
Program**](https://recuperacion.pr.gov/en/energy-grid-rehabilitation-and-reconstruction-cost-share-program/),
which provides a significant contribution to PREPA’s cost-share
requirement for FEMA Public Assistance funding. The remaining $2.3
billion is actively supporting the deployment of over 600 MW of new
rooftop solar capacity in underserved areas. For example, programs like
[**Community Energy and Water Resilience
Installations**](https://recuperacion.pr.gov/en/community-energy-and-water-resilience-installations-program/)**,**
[**New Energy**](https://nuevaenergia.pr.gov/en/)**,** [**Solar
Incentive**](https://incentivosolar.pr.gov/en/)**,** and[**Community
Installations**](https://recuperacion.pr.gov/en/cewri-ci/)are providing
financial support for solar systems with battery backup to an estimated
20,000 LMI residents. The [**Agro-Energy Stability
Program**](https://recuperacion.pr.gov/en/agroenergy/) provide grants to
eligible farmers for the design, acquisition, and installation of
renewable solar energy projects to cover up to 100% of their annual
energy consumption needs. The [**Electrical Power Reliability and
Resilience
Program**](https://recuperacion.pr.gov/en/download/electrical-power-reliability-and-resilience-program-er2/)
will fund strategic and competitive projects that enhance Puerto Rico’s
power grid infrastructure, particularly by incorporating renewable
energy technologies to ensure the grid’s reliability and resilience,
such as a microgrid for the Centro Médico Hospital in San Juan to ensure
that critical medical services continue operating even during power
outages.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Improving Access to Reliable Energy through President Biden’s
Investing in America Agenda**

President Biden’s Investing in America agenda—including historic
legislation such as the American Rescue Plan, Bipartisan Infrastructure
Law, and Inflation Reduction Act—is delivering results for communities
in every corner of the United States, and Puerto Rico is no exception.

Puerto Rico was still recovering from the devastation of Hurricanes Irma
and Maria when the COVID-19 pandemic struck. The American Rescue Plan
delivered aid for the short- and long-term economic impacts caused by
COVID-19, including $20 million for the[**Energy Incentive
Program**](https://recovery.pr.gov/en/energy-incentive) to assist
businesses in the development of low-cost solar and battery storage
systems. The program provided up to $25,000 to small and medium
business, helping offset operating costs and allowing them to stay open
during power outages.

The Inflation Reduction Act is the most ambitious investment in
combating the climate crisis in world history. Since its enactment on
August 16, 2022, the Inflation Reduction Act has enabled the following
achievements for Puerto Rico:

-   Thanks to the Inflation Reduction Act’s [**elective
    pay**](https://www.irs.gov/credits-deductions/elective-pay-and-transferability)
    provisions, clean energy tax credits are available to local entities
    in Puerto Rico for the first time. Through the new elective pay
    mechanism, nonprofits, government agencies, and other tax-exempt
    entities in Puerto Rico can now receive a payment equal to the full
    value of tax credits for building qualifying clean energy projects.
-   Through the **Solar for All grant program**, the Environmental
    Protection Agency (EPA) awarded [$156 million to the Puerto Rico
    Office of Management and
    Budget](https://www.epa.gov/newsreleases/puerto-rico-office-management-and-budget-receive-over-156-million-provide-solar-power)
    to develop long-lasting solar programs that enable
    low-income and disadvantaged communities to benefit from reliable
    solar power. The grant is projected to support the deployment of 34
    MW of residential solar capacity and impact 14,000 households.
-   EPA’s [**Community Change Grants
    Program**](https://www.epa.gov/inflation-reduction-act/community-change-grants-selections)
    is providing nearly $52 million across three local organizations to
    fund energy projects in several communities in Puerto Rico to
    enhance residential- and community-level resilience.
-   The Inter-American University of Puerto Rico received a $10 million
    grant from EPA to establish a [**Thriving Communities Technical
    Assistance
    Center**](https://www.epa.gov/environmentaljustice/environmental-justice-thriving-communities-technical-assistance-centers#puerto)
    to support communities in accessing federal funding for energy and
    environmental justice.
-   The U.S. Department of Energy’s (DOE) Loan Programs Office (LPO) has
    leveraged the [**Title 17 Clean Energy Financing
    Program**](https://www.energy.gov/lpo/articles/notice-applicants-lpo-determination-eligibility-puerto-rico-projects-applying-under)
    to finance solar energy and battery storage facilities in Puerto
    Rico. To date, LPO has announced a loan guarantee of $861.3 million
    for[**Project Marahu**](https://www.energy.gov/lpo/aes-marahu)**,**
    and a conditional commitment for a loan guarantee of up to $584.5
    million for
    [**Convergent**](https://www.energy.gov/lpo/articles/lpo-announces-conditional-commitment-subsidiaries-convergent-energy-and-power-inc).
    Together these projects represent 300 MW of solar generation and
    565.5 MW of reliable battery storage.
-   LPO is also enabling access to residential rooftop solar and battery
    storage through a $3 billion partial loan guarantee to Sunnova
    Energy Corporation’s [**Project
    Hestia**](https://www.energy.gov/lpo/Hestia)**.** Up to 20% of
    systems will be installed in Puerto Rico, representing up to 23,000
    customers.
-   DOE has allocated $85 million to Puerto Rico’s Department of
    Economic Development and Commerce through the [**Home Energy Rebates
    Program**](https://www.energy.gov/scep/home-energy-rebates-programs)
    to incentivize appliance replacements and home improvements that can
    lower energy bills for homeowners.
-   Under the Inflation Reduction Act, new possibilities for offshore
    wind are opening up along the coasts of Puerto Rico, allowing the
    [Department of the Interior to explore wind lease
    sales](https://www.doi.gov/ocl/insular-areas-affordable-energy) in
    prime areas.

Finally, the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law provides additional funding
to support Puerto Rico’s grid modernization and resilience. DOE’s
[**Grid Resilience State and Tribal Formula Grants
Program**](https://www.energy.gov/gdo/grid-resilience-statetribal-formula-grants-program)
provides non-competitive funding to states, territories and Indian
tribes to improve the resilience of their electric grids. Puerto Rico
has received $11 million to date, administered by the Central Office for
Recovery, Reconstruction and Resilience, to expand the use of virtual
power plants and microgrids for improved energy resilience. An
additional $3.4 million will be awarded in 2025. DOE is also
administering $5.6 million in [**Energy Efficiency and Conservation
Block
Grants**](https://www.energy.gov/scep/energy-efficiency-and-conservation-block-grant-eecbg-program-frequently-asked-questions-may)in
Puerto Rico, including $1.9 million to the Department of Economic
Development and Commerce and $3.7 million to 33 municipalities to
support a broad set of initiatives to reduce energy use, reduce fossil
fuel emissions, and improve energy efficiency. DOE also provided a $1
million grant for the Puerto Rico Green Energy Trust to establish an
[**energy efficiency revolving loan
fund**](https://www.energy.gov/scep/energy-efficiency-revolving-loan-fund-capitalization-grant-program)
that provides loans and grants for energy efficiency audits, upgrades,
and retrofits to low- and moderate-income residents. DOE is awarding $37
million to boost Puerto Rico’s [**Weatherization Assistance
Program**](https://www.energy.gov/scep/wap/about-weatherization-assistance-program)—a
30-fold increase to Puerto Rico’s annual appropriations—to reduce energy
costs for an estimated 6,000 low-income households by increasing the
energy efficiency of their homes and/or deploying rooftop solar and
battery storage systems.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Improving Energy Affordability and Resilience for Puerto Rico’s Most
Vulnerable Residents**

With $1 billion from the 2023 Consolidated Appropriations Act, DOE
established the [Puerto Rico Energy Resilience
Fund](https://www.energy.gov/gdo/puerto-rico-energy-resilience-fund)  to
drive key investments in resilient and renewable energy infrastructure
for vulnerable communities in Puerto Rico.  Since its inception on
February 21, 2023, DOE has launched several key initiatives:

-   Programa Acceso Solar**:  **This $450 million initiative is
    providing solar and battery storage systems to low-income households
    with residents who rely on electricity and battery-powered medical
    devices, or otherwise reside in areas that experience frequent power
    outages. These solar and battery systems are designed to provide
    reliable electricity even during power outages. Beneficiaries of
    this program can receive their systems with zero upfront costs, as
    well as education and support on how to use and maintain them. DOE
    is partnering with a network of community-based organizations known
    as Solar Ambassadors to identify, engage, and assist with intake
    processing of qualifying households. To help ensure these vulnerable
    households can best use their solar and battery systems and exercise
    their consumer rights, DOE also selected two organizations—Hispanic
    Federation Inc. and the Institute for Building Technology and
    Safety—to lead education, training, and consumer protection
    initiatives. Programa Acceso Solar will bring energy resilience to
    up to 20,000 households and contribute approximately 100 MW of
    renewable capacity to Puerto Rico’s grid.
-   **Community-Sponsored Installations:** Four non-profits and
    cooperatives—Barrio Eléctrico, Environmental Defense Fund, Let’s
    Share the Sun Foundation, and Solar United Neighbors, Inc.— were
    collectively awarded $40 million to deploy up to 2,000 residential
    solar and storage systems in their communities, representing 10 MW
    of renewable capacity. These community-sponsored installations are
    underway in communities across Puerto Rico—from Isabela and Adjuntas
    to Salinas and Culebra—to benefit qualifying low-income households. 
-   **Programa de Comunidades Resilientes**: A $365 million initiative
    to provide funding for solar and battery storage installations
    across two types of vital infrastructure serving low- and
    middle-income populations: community healthcare facilities, as well
    as community centers and other common areas in public housing and
    privately owned subsidized multi-family properties. Four teams with
    an existing presence in Puerto Rico will coordinate the deployment
    of projects across facilities or properties in partnership with
    local stakeholders. Programa de Comunidades Resilientes will deploy
    up to 400 systems representing 60 MW of renewable capacity across
    facilities that serve an estimated 430,000 Puerto Ricans.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

**Empowering Local Communities**

The Biden-Harris Administration is focused on ensuring that Puerto
Rico’s energy future is equitable, inclusive, and fosters innovation.
Through programs that encourage diversity, local energy solutions, and
workforce development, the administration is empowering communities to
lead the transition to renewable energy.

DOE launched a series of prize competitions, competitive solicitations,
and technical assistance programs with low barriers to entry to foster
community-led innovation and entrepreneurship in underserved areas of
Puerto Rico:

-   Local electric cooperative Cooperativa Hidroeléctrica de la Montaña
    and partners Fundación Borincana and Pecan Street received $200,000
    through the [**Inclusive Energy Innovation
    Prize**](https://www.energy.gov/articles/doe-awards-36-million-promote-equity-and-diversity-clean-energy-innovation)to
    collect household energy usage data to design tailored microgrids
    for rural villages in the central mountains of Puerto Rico.
-   The Cooperativa Hidroeléctrica de la Montaña also received $50,000
    from the [**Community Power
    Accelerator**](https://www.energy.gov/communitysolar/community-power-accelerator-prize-round-1)
    and technical assistance through the [**Communities LEAP
    Program**](https://www.energy.gov/articles/doe-announces-18-million-towards-clean-energy-and-economic-development-30-historically)to
    further support the design and implementation of resilient
    microgrids in rural areas.
-   Three communities in Puerto Rico (La Margarita in Salinas, Comunidad
    Toro Negro in Ciales, and Playa de Ponce in Ponce) are receiving
    technical and financial assistance through the[**Energy Transitions
    Initiative Partnership
    Project**](https://www.energy.gov/eere/articles/doe-partners-25-new-coastal-remote-and-island-communities-advance-local-energy)
    to develop sustainable, clean energy infrastructure tailored to
    their specific needs.
-   La Margarita also received $205,000 through the **Community Clean
    Energy Coalition Prize** to develop community-driven clean energy
    projects that help improve energy access, reduce costs, and increase
    resilience.
-   The DOE Office of Energy Justice and Equity created a $1
    million[**Puerto Rico Grid Resilience Hubs
    Program**](https://www.energy.gov/justice/puerto-rico-grid-resilience-hubs-program)
    to fund solar and storage installations in 10 community centers to
    serve as resilience hubs in areas that experience long and frequent
    outages.
-   DOE is also supporting development of the next-generation energy
    workforce through the [**Clean Energy Innovator
    Fellowship**](https://www.energy.gov/eere/jobs/energy-innovator-fellowship),
    which provides clean energy professionals, entrepreneurs, and
    innovators with resources, mentorship, and funding. DOE has
    sponsored four fellows at key energy entities including LUMA Energy
    and the Cooperativa Hidroeléctrica de la Montaña to advance their
    projects and contribute to Puerto Rico’s energy transformation.
-   Finally, DOE is supporting clean energy entrepreneurship in Puerto
    Rico through the[**Energy Program for Innovation
    Clusters**](https://www.energy.gov/technologytransitions/articles/incubators-and-accelerators-awarded-over-45-million-doe-support)**,**
    which awarded $1 million to incubator Parallel18, an organization
    under the Puerto Rico Science, Technology and Research Trust, to
    support a clean energy initiative called Project Switch. Project
    Switch will help professors and students develop and commercialize
    clean energy technologies, boosting innovation and economic growth.

Since 2021, the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) has made
significant investments to address the energy needs of rural business
and communities in Puerto Rico. Through the [**Rural Energy for America
Program**](https://www.rd.usda.gov/programs-services/energy-programs/rural-energy-america-program-renewable-energy-systems-energy-efficiency-improvement-guaranteed-loans)**,**
USDA has invested $24,656,109 million in grants to help 137 agricultural
producers and rural small business owners in Puerto Rico make energy
efficiency improvements and renewable energy investments to lower energy
costs, generate new income, strengthen their operations, and recover
quickly when disasters strike. The most recent round of nearly $5.5
million in grants will support 21 projects, representing approximately 5
MW of renewable capacity. USDAhas also awarded nearly $18 million to 24
projects in Puerto Rico through the[**Community Facilities
Program**](https://www.rd.usda.gov/programs-services/community-facilities)to
develop or improve essential public services and facilities in rural
communities. For example, Educational Services Corpus Christi Corp was
awarded a grant of $67,000 for solar panels and battery backup equipment
to reduce the school operating expenses and increase energy
sustainability.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Biden-Harris Administration’s commitment to Puerto Rico is marked by
an unprecedented interagency approach to support a transition to a more
modern, reliable, and sustainable energy system. Billions of dollars in
federal disaster recovery funding are being used towards grid
improvements that will significantly reduce service interruptions and
improve the ability to withstand future storms. Through federal funding,
tax incentives, and community-driven initiatives, Puerto Rico is making
significant progress toward its renewable energy goals: collectively,
the actions of the Biden-Harris Administration are directly supporting
the addition of over 1,000 MW of new renewable energy capacity—nearly
double the current amount—and another 1,000 MW of new battery storage
capacity to serve hundreds of thousands of households. This
whole-of-government strategy represents a major step toward ensuring a
more secure and sustainable energy future for the people of Puerto Rico,
improving their quality of life and fostering economic growth.

\###
