---
date: '2025-01-03'
published_time: 2025-01-03 10:46:57-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2025/01/03/president-biden-announces-recipients-of-the-medal-of-valor/
tags: statements-releases
title: "President\_Biden Announces Recipients of the Medal of\_Valor"
---
 
Today, President Biden will announce eight recipients of the Medal of
Valor.

Pursuant to the Public Safety Officer Medal of Valor Act of 2001, which
President Biden co-sponsored when serving as a Senator, the President
may award, and present in the name of Congress, a Medal of Valor to a
public safety officer for extraordinary valor above and beyond the call
of duty. It is the nation’s highest award for valor by a public safety
officer.

The nominees were recommended by the Attorney General and the Medal of
Valor Review Board, whose members are appointed to four-year terms by
the President, the Senate majority and minority leaders, the Speaker of
the House, and the House minority leader. The medal recipients have
exhibited exceptional courage—disregarding their own personal safety—in
attempting to save or protect human life. 

The President previously awarded Medals of Valor in 2023 for the
2021-2022 class of nine recipients and in 2022 for the 2019-2020 and
2020-2021 classes of 15 recipients during ceremonies held at the White
House. The President also presented the medals as Vice President in
2010, 2013, and 2015.

The awards will be presented at the White House on January 3, 2024. The
following individuals will be awarded the Medal of Valor:

**Sergeant Jeffrey Mathes, Officer Rex Engelbert, and Detectives Michael
Collazo, Ryan Cagle, and Zachary Plese**

On March 27, 2023, Sergeant Jeffrey Mathes, Officer Rex Engelbert, and
Detectives Michael Collazo, Ryan Cagle, and Zachary Plese of the
Nashville, Tennessee, Police Department ran towards gunfire to take down
an active shooter at The Covenant School, a Nashville elementary school.
The heavily-armed shooter had already killed six people, including three
nine-year-old students. The officers rushed to the scene, and as they
arrived, the shooter opened fire on them. Still, the officers entered
the school, cleared classroom after classroom, and ran towards the
sounds of gunfire where they encountered the shooter. They took down the
shooter. Later that day, the President addressed the nation and
commended the police for their swift response and bravery.

**Sergeant Tu Tran**

On February 22, 2023, Sergeant Tu Tran of the Police Department of
Lincoln, Nebraska put his life in danger to courageously save a woman
drowning in a frigid pond. Sergeant Tran jumped into the deep water and
swam over 30 feet to the middle of the pond where the woman’s vehicle
was submerging. He opened the rear door and pulled the woman out before
the vehicle fully submerged. Sergeant Tran brought the woman to safety
on shore, where she was treated by medics and survived. Sergeant Tran
attended the 2024 State of the Union address as a guest of Nebraska
Senators Pete Ricketts (R) and Deb Fischer (R).

**Lieutenant John Vanderstar**

On October 23, 2022, Lieutenant John Vanderstar of the Fire Department
of the City of New York rushed into a burning apartment and through
flames to rescue a mother and her child, saving both. Upon entering the
apartment, without hesitation and without water to hold back the fire,
he pushed to the back bedroom, where he found a suffocating mother with
a child laying on top of her. He dragged them to the window for fresh
air. Once other firefighters arrived with a hose to push back the fire,
Lieutenant Vanderstar raced out of the apartment with the child, handing
her to paramedics. The mother and child both survived.

**Firefighter Brendan Gaffney**

On February 5, 2023, firefighter Brendan Gaffney of the Fire Department
of the City of New York rushed through an apartment building fire twice
to save two unconscious victims. In the apartment, Gaffney moved through
the raging fire into a bedroom using a removed door as a shield, where
he found a pregnant woman and a child, both unconscious. He first
shielded the child with his own body to get him to safety. Gaffney then
ran through the fire again and rescued the woman. He performed CPR on
the woman while waiting for paramedics. The woman and child both
survived.

\###
