---
date: '2025-01-02'
modified_time: 2025-01-02 11:50:55-05:00
published_time: 2025-01-02 12:00:00-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2025/01/02/fact-sheet-president-biden-recognizes-fuller-story-of-pacific-islands-heritage/
tags: statements-releases
title: "FACT SHEET: President\_Biden Recognizes Fuller Story of Pacific Islands\_\
  Heritage"
---
 
Today, President Biden is taking action to recognize the cultural
heritage of the Indigenous Peoples and communities of the Pacific
Islands by renaming the Pacific Remote Islands Marine National Monument
as the Pacific Islands Heritage Marine National Monument, and becoming
the first President to formally honor the Hui Panalāʻau, Native
Hawaiians sent to secure United States territorial claim to the islands
in the run up to World War II. This action builds on President Biden’s
historic record of delivering for Indigenous communities across the
country.

In March 2023, the President issued a [Presidential
Memorandum](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/03/24/memorandum-on-conserving-the-natural-and-cultural-heritage-of-the-pacific-remote-islands/)
directing the Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of Commerce to
collaborate with Indigenous cultural leaders to inform renaming of the
existing Pacific Remote Islands National Monument to honor the area’s
heritage, ancestral pathways, and stopping points for Pacific Island
voyagers, and to inform posthumous recognition for the Hui Panalāʻau.

Today’s action supports President Biden’s commitment to telling a fuller
story of our Nation’s history and builds on the Biden-Harris
Administration’s
[efforts](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2024/05/09/fact-sheet-the-biden-%E2%81%A0harris-administration-advances-equity-and-opportunity-for-asian-american-native-hawaiian-and-pacific-islander-communities-across-the-country/)
to advance opportunity, including for Asian American, Native Hawaiian,
and Pacific Islander Communities.

**Renaming of the Marine National Monument**

The [Pacific Islands Heritage Marine National
Monument](https://www.fws.gov/national-monument/pacific-remote-islands-marine)
encompasses approximately 490,000 square miles of open ocean, coral
reef, and island habitats in the Pacific Ocean and includes seven
National Wildlife Refuges associated with Baker Island, Howland Island,
Jarvis Island, Johnston Atoll, Kingman Reef, Palmyra Atoll, and Wake
Atoll. The national monument is home to one of the largest collections
of tropical islands, coral reef, seamounts, and deep sea protected areas
on the planet, and provides large migration and foraging ranges for sea
turtles, marine mammals, whales, sharks, and manta rays.

At President Biden’s direction, the Udall Foundation, in partnership
with the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service and the National Oceanic and
Atmospheric Administration (NOAA), led an [18-month collaborative
renaming
process](https://www.fws.gov/media/udall-foundations-pacific-remote-islands-marine-national-monument-renaming-and-cultural)
to engage Indigenous Peoples and other Pacific Island communities on
developing a recommendation for a new name for the Marine National
Monument. This included participating in the 13<sup>th</sup> Festival of
Pacific Arts and Culture, where the Administration [convened
sessions](https://www.fws.gov/media/addendum-march-2024-pacific-remote-islands-marine-national-monument-primnm-renaming-and)
with the Pacific Island delegations, cultural practitioners, voyagers,
language experts, and the broader Pacific Island community to seek
comment and input on a new name.

The renaming of the Pacific Islands Heritage Marine National Monument
reaffirms the Biden-Harris Administration’s commitment to recognize and
acknowledge the tradition of voyaging and other cultural and ancestral
connections to the monument area and the historic and scientific objects
it contains as core to Pacific Island communities’ heritage. The name
also honors the many people, cultures, languages, and resources that
have existed in the region for thousands of years and will continue to
thrive in the future.

President George W. Bush first established this [marine national
monument](https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2009/01/12/E9-500/establishment-of-the-pacific-remote-islands-marine-national-monument#:~:text=Proclamation%208336%20of%20January%206,%202009.%20Establishment%20of%20the%20Pacific)
in 2009, and President Barack Obama designated a [marine national
monument
expansion](https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/2014/09/29/2014-23319/pacific-remote-islands-marine-national-monument-expansion)
area in 2014. Today’s action applies the new name to the existing
monument, without altering its boundaries or any applicable
requirements.

**Recognition for the Hui Panalāʻau**

From 1935 to 1942, the United States government sent 135 mainly Native
Hawaiian men – known collectively as the Hui Panalāʻau – to live for six
weeks to several months at a time on the uninhabited Pacific equatorial
islands of Howland, Baker, Jarvis, Enderbury, and Canton to claim the
islands for the United States. Today, President Biden issued a
[Presidential
Message](https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/wp-content/uploads/2025/01/Scan_Public-Message_Hui-Panalaau_1.2.2025.pdf)
officially recognizing for the first time their contributions to the
United States.

Beginning in 1935, the United States government recruited young Hawaiian
students and recent graduates of the Kamehameha School for Boys to serve
a colonization mission to the uninhabited islands. Although military
interests justified occupation of the islands, the Hui Panalāʻau members
were not informed of the true nature of the project. The men recorded
weather conditions, cultivated plants, maintained a daily log, recorded
the types of fish that they caught, observed bird life, and collected
specimens for the Bishop Museum on O’ahu, and also endured personal
sacrifice and hardship living on the islands. Several Hui Panalāʻau
members died on the islands, including in an attack by the Empire of
Japan the day after the Japanese military attacked Pearl Harbor.

Today, the Biden-Harris Administration acknowledges the accomplishments
and sacrifices of the members of the Hui Panalā‘au, and extends to them
and their families the deep appreciation of the people of the United
States. The United States also extends condolences to the families of
Carl Kahalewai, Joseph Keliihananui, and Richard Whaley for the loss of
their loved ones in the service of the United States. The previously
unsung contributions and sacrifices of these young men and their loved
ones must be recognized as a part of the history of our Nation and of
their beloved home, Hawai‘i.

The National Archives and Records Administration (NARA) conducted a
thorough review of records relevant to the Equatorial Pacific
colonization program and was able to verify a participant roster that
reflects, to the very best of their ability, a list of 135 individuals
involved in this United States Government project. NARA corroborated
this list with individual employment records. The records are from the
Office of the Territories: Central Classified Files Relating to the
Equatorial Islands, and this series consists of 15 containers which are
fully digitized and [available in the National Archives
Catalog](https://catalog.archives.gov/id/788662)*.*

Today, the United States honors their memory for their service and
sacrifices for our Nation:

Ahia, Charles; Ahia, Henry; Akaka, Lewellyn; Akana, Albert; Akana,
Bernard; Akana, George; Akana, Theodore; Anahu, William; Anakalea,
Joseph; Au, Charles; Aune, Edward; Awana, Theodore; Beatty, Rupert;
Bederman, Thos. W.; Bell, Kenneth; Blake, Hartwell; Boyd, Andrew; Braun,
Charles; Braun, Clarence; Bruhn, James Ferdinand; Burke, Eugene; Burke,
Walter; Bush, Harry; Calley, Chas. D., Jr.; Carroll, James; Chang,
Herbert; Ching, Archie; Ching, Lawrence; Cockett, Frank; Cockett,
Herbert; Collins, Austin; Cowden, Lawrence; Coyle, James W.; Duff,
Leonard; Dyen, Samuel; Faufata, Folina; Feigenbaum, Ralph; Fialkowaski,
Henry; Graf, Wyman; Haili, Jacob; Hall, Bernard H.; Harbottle, Isaac;
Harris, Arthur; Hartwell, David Kawila; Henderson, Waldron; Hooper,
Herbert; Hutchinson, William; Jacobson, Victor; Jensen, Hans P.; Jensen,
Karl Emil; Kaahea, Henry; Kahalewai, Carl; Kahalewai, Samuel; Kahanu,
George; Kahapea, Alexander; Kahapea, William; Kaina, Wm.; Kalama, David
H.; Kalama, Samuel; Kalama, Solomon; Kamakaiwi, James C., Jr.; Kaninau,
Charles; Kauahikaua, Archie; Kaulu, Albert Kelii; Keliihananui, Jos. K.;
Kepoo, Joseph; Kilbey, John Gibson; Kim, Bak Sung; Kim, Harold; Kim,
Joseph; Kim, Victor; King, Kenneth Lum; Kinney, James; Knell, Henry
Crockett; Lawler, Vernon; Lee, Francis; Lee, Frederick; Lee, Henry Kong;
Leong, Ah Kin; Lieson, Robert W.; Lum, Harold Chin; Lum, Kam; Lum, Paul
Yat; Lum, Yau Fai; MacKellar, Ian; Mahikoa, Henry; Makua, Blue; Markham,
Wm. S.; Mattson, Elvin K.; McCorriston, Edward M.; Medeiros, Henry;
Newton, Edmond; Ohumukini, Henry; Opiopio, Killarney; Paoa, Melvin;
Paquette, Maurice; Pea, Aki Kini Levi; Pea, Wm. Kane; Pease, James K.;
Phillips, Manley Woodrow; Phillips, Paul Gordon; Piianai, Abraham;
Pires, Manuel; Rahe, Bernard; Renken, Ernest Kalane; Riley, James Jos.;
Roberts, John; Roberts, Oliver K.; Robinson, Alexander; Ruddle, Francis;
Smith, Henry M.; Sproat, Manuel; Stein, Charles; Stillman, Francis;
Stillman, Geo. C.L.; Suares, Louis; Summers, Carl; Surber, George;
Tavares, William; Theiss, Harry; Toomey, Daniel; Toomey, John Kauwe;
Toomey, William; Victor, Gabriel; Waiwaiole, Luther; West, George;
Whaley, Richard; Wilhelm, Frederick; Williamson, Elmer; Wilson, Ralph;
Wong, Alexander; Wood, Joshua; Yomes, William; Young, Edward; and
Zagara, Dominic P.

\###
