---
date: '2025-01-06'
published_time: 2025-01-06 20:13:43-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2025/01/06/what-they-are-saying-president-biden-protects-atlantic-and-pacific-coasts-from-offshore-oil-and-gas-drilling/
tags: statements-releases
title: "WHAT THEY ARE SAYING: President\_Biden Protects Atlantic and Pacific Coasts\
  \ from Offshore Oil and Gas\_Drilling"
---
 
Today, President Biden [took
action](https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/statements-releases/2025/01/06/fact-sheet-president-biden-protects-atlantic-and-pacific-coasts-from-offshore-oil-and-gas-drilling/)
to protect the entire U.S. East coast, the eastern Gulf of Mexico, the
Pacific off the coasts of Washington, Oregon, and California, and
additional portions of the Northern Bering Sea in Alaska from future oil
and natural gas leasing. In protecting more than 625 million acres of
the U.S. ocean from offshore drilling, President Biden has determined
that the environmental and economic risks and harms that would result
from drilling in these areas outweigh their limited fossil fuel resource
potential. With these withdrawals, President *has now conserved over 670
million acres of America’s lands and waters, more than any other
president in history*.

Leaders across the country applauded today’s announcement:

***<u>Elected Officials</u>***

**Senator Sheldon Whitehouse (D-RI)**

“President Biden has done well by Rhode Islanders in protecting our
coast from the economic and environmental dangers of offshore drilling. 
I’m hopeful that this action will put up a roadblock that will prevent
the Trump administration from selling out the Atlantic to the
top-bidding polluter. I’ve been on the front lines of helping the Ocean
State recover after oil spills, and I’m keenly aware of just how
damaging offshore accidents can be.” \[Statement, 1/06/2024\]

**Senator Ed Markey (D-MA)** 

“I applaud [@POTUS](https://x.com/POTUS)‘s decision to ban offshore
drilling on the East Coast to ensure that our ocean is kept safe
from oil spills and environmental devastation. On behalf of our
fishermen, our seaside communities, and our ecosystem—thank you.”
\[[Tweet](https://x.com/SenMarkey/status/1876340856405327894), 1/6/24\]

**Senator Jack Reed (D-RI)**

“I applaud President Biden’s move to protect America’s coastline &
oceans from offshore oil and natural gas drilling, defending our
environment & growing our blue economy by boosting ocean health &
bolstering coastal resiliency.”
\[[Tweet](https://x.com/SenJackReed/status/1876362980843196418),
1/6/2025\]

**Rep. Jared Huffman (D-CA-02)**

“Today’s action cements President Biden’s historic climate legacy by
permanently protecting much of our oceans, coastal communities, and
local economies from Big Oil’s long record of exploitation. Since day
one of his administration, President Biden has understood that facing
the climate crisis and protecting Americans demands visionary leadership
and bold action. I’m grateful for the historic progress this
administration has made both today and over the past four years.
Importantly, today’s action is Trump-proof; the courts have already
defended the 12(a) authority against previous attacks. We know the
President-elect will do everything in his power to enact his ‘drill baby
drill’ agenda, but fortunately for us all, handing our oceans over to
Big Oil billionaires will be off the table.” \[Statement, 1/6/24\]

**Rep. Frank Pallone (D-NJ-06)**

“For decades, I’ve fought to protect our shores from those who would
sell off our way of life to make a buck from dangerous offshore
drilling, and today, that fight has paid off. President Biden’s action
ensures that our coasts are permanently off-limits to ‘drill baby,
drill’ exploitation. This is a commonsense win for everyone who relies
on clean, thriving oceans. Protecting our coastal waters from oil
drilling safeguards our fishing and tourism economy and
critically-endangered North Atlantic right whales. By taking this bold
move, President Biden is showing the world that the United States can
lead in combating the climate and wildlife extinction crises. This
decision prioritizes clean, safe energy over the outdated and dangerous
practices of fossil fuel extraction. It reflects the hard work and
values of coastal communities like ours that have never stopped fighting
for a better, cleaner future.”
\[[Statement](https://pallone.house.gov/media/press-releases/after-pallones-push-biden-permanently-protects-atlantic-and-other-coastal),
1/6/24\]

**Rep. Kathy Castor (D-FL-14)**

“Clean water and clean beaches are central to Florida’s healthy
environment, economy and way of life. Floridians voted in 2018 to
prohibit oil drilling in state waters (only nine miles offshore), but
oil and gas companies still had their eyes on federal waters in the
eastern Gulf. I ran for Congress to champion permanent coastal
protections and to keep oil drilling away from Florida, so I am thrilled
that President Joe Biden answered our call to ban drilling off the
Florida Gulf Coast and thereby safeguard our communities, fishing and
tourism economies. Floridians understand the damage that oil drilling
and extreme events can do to our pocketbooks and way of life. The Gulf
of Mexico BP Deepwater Horizon disaster in 2010 was a wake-up call as
Florida business owners suffered widespread economic losses and
pollution harmed marine life. Offshore drilling is dirty and dangerous
and inconsistent with the clean, tourist-friendly beaches we value in
the Sunshine State. It puts our national security at risk by disrupting
critical military training conducted by MacDill AFB and other military
installations off Florida’s coasts. I urge my colleagues in Congress to
build on this momentum and pass the bipartisan Florida Coastal
Protection Act to enshrine these safeguards into law, protecting them
against future administrative reversals.”
\[[Statement](https://t.co/Jx6IBXP0f1), 1/6/24\]

**Rep. Nydia Velazquez (D-NY-07)**

 “Glad to see @POTUS take bold action to protect our oceans and
communities on the coast from offshore drilling. I’m proud to have
joined my colleagues last year in calling for this step. This is a huge
win for our environment, economy, and future generations.”
\[[Tweet](https://x.com/NydiaVelazquez/status/1876350082360250548),
1/6/2024\]

**Rep. Chellie Pingree (D-ME-01)**

“UPDATE: Following our letter, @POTUS is taking action to protect more
than 625 million acres of American waters from future offshore oil and
natural-gas drilling, including the entire East Coast! // The risks of
offshore drilling—to local communities and economies, to marine
ecosystems, and to human health—far outweigh the potential benefits. No
president has protected more American lands+waters than President Biden.
It’s a legacy that he—and all of us—should be proud of 👏”
\[[Tweet](https://x.com/chelliepingree/status/1876331377999876141),
1/6/2025\]

**Rep. Jasmine Crockett (D-TX-30)**

“Thank you President Biden for acting to PERMANENTLY protect coastlines
from Maine to Florida & Washington to California from offshore drilling.
With natural disasters increasing, we need to invest in clean,
sustainable energy – cutting our energy bills and protecting the
planet!” \[[Tweet](https://x.com/RepJasmine/status/1876351977338392928),
1/6/2025\]

***<u>Environmental Leaders and Organizations:</u>***

**Tiernan Sittenfeld, Senior Vice President of Government Affairs,
League of Conservation Voters**

“We applaud the Biden administration for protecting the coasts off the
Pacific, Atlantic, the eastern Gulf of Mexico and portions of the
Northern Bering Sea off Alaska from new offshore oil and gas leasing.
Preventing the expansion of future oil development off our coasts will
help meet our climate goals and safeguard communities. With today’s
announcement, President Biden has protected more of our lands and waters
than any other U.S. president in history, more than 679 million acres of
lands, waters, and oceans across the country. We are forever grateful to
President Biden for his steadfast commitment and unparalleled leadership
in protecting our communities, our health, our climate, and our
treasured places.”
\[[Statement](https://www.lcv.org/media-center/lcv-statement-on-new-protections-for-625-million-acres-of-u-s-waters/),
1/6/2025\]

**Ben Jealous, Executive Director, Sierra Club**

“This critical action is a major win for coastal communities, marine
wildlife, and our collective future. In using the power of the
presidency, the same authority used by his three immediate predecessors,
President Biden is acting to safeguard the public health of coastal
communities from the dangers of offshore drilling along with the marine
wildlife that live in these waters. There will never be a safe way to
desecrate our waters. As long as it is allowed to continue, offshore
drilling and the pollution it causes will continue to present a threat
to coastal communities, economies, and environments. We must continue to
work to achieve a clean energy transition that ends our reliance on
fossil fuels, grows the strong economy it has already built with
family-sustaining jobs and preserves our clean water and clean air. The
Sierra Club applauds President Biden for his leadership and further
cementing his historic legacy of prioritizing our health, our collective
future, and public lands and waters.”
\[[Statement](https://www.sierraclub.org/press-releases/2025/01/sierra-club-statement-new-federal-protections-us-oceans),
1/6/2025\]

**Drew Caputo, Vice President of Litigation for Lands, Wildlife, and
Oceans, Earthjustice**

“President Biden just made a powerful investment in the resiliency of
communities, regional economies, and marine wildlife across the coastal
United States,” said Earthjustice Vice President of Litigation for
Lands, Wildlife, and Oceans Drew Caputo. “These protective policies will
ensure safer conditions and more room for prosperity for millions of
people living along American coasts, for thousands of businesses that
rely on undisturbed oceans, and for vulnerable wildlife. Our work ahead
is clear: we’ll continue the fight to ensure that Gulf communities in
Texas, Louisiana, Mississippi, and Alabama can also increasingly live
without the threat from offshore drilling on their front doorstep.”
\[[Statement](https://earthjustice.org/press/2025/earthjustice-applauds-white-house-withdrawal-of-american-offshore-territory-from-future-oil-and-gas-development),
1/6/2025\]

**Margie Alt, Director, Climate Action Campaign**

“For much too long, our coastal communities have suffered economic and
ecological damage from oil spills, and endured devastating hurricanes,
sea level rise, and coastal erosion due to climate change caused by
fossil fuel pollution. The Biden administration’s sweeping decision to
protect our nation’s waters from future drilling is an unambiguous win
for coastal communities, their economies and ecosystems. The decision
bolsters our national security and will ultimately reduce the climate
pollution that is ravaging the coasts, the nation, and the world.
President Biden has been a steadfast champion for climate progress from
Day One of his administration. His legacy of conservation and advocacy
to protect our climate will leave an indelible mark on the health of our
communities and our environment.”
[\[Statement](https://www.actonclimate.com/post/cac-applauds-biden-admin-decision-to-withdraw-625m-acres-from-offshore-drilling/),
1/6/2025\]

**Lori Lodes, Executive Director, Climate Power**

“The Biden administration’s decision to protect our oceans will preserve
the health and safety of coastal communities. While Americans strongly
support protections for our air and water and keeping our public lands
pristine, Donald Trump has a record of putting the profits of oil and
gas executives ahead of our public health. President Biden has delivered
on his promises to protect our public land and water for future
generations; Donald Trump should do the same.”
\[[Statement](https://climatepower.us/news/president-biden-takes-action-to-protect-federal-waters-keeping-air-and-water-clean/),
1/6/2025\]

**Manish Bapna, President and CEO, NRDC**

“These ocean waters are vital for tourism, recreation, and fisheries–all
of which would be threatened by oil drilling. By not allowing these
public waters to be sold off to the highest corporate bidder, President
Biden has put people and nature over polluters. Offshore drilling causes
immense harm to coastal communities, pollute the ocean, and harm
wildlife. History has unfortunately taught us that oil and gas drilling
in the ocean inherently risks catastrophe. President Biden’s leasing
withdrawal helps limit this risk and prevents oil and gas companies from
lining their pockets at the public’s expense.”
\[[Statement](https://www.nrdc.org/reaction/biden-announces-offshore-leasing-ban),
1/6/2025\]

**Martha Collins, Healthy Gulf Executive Director**

**“**We are grateful President Biden has taken action to protect the
eastern Gulf of Mexico, preserving this vital region from the harms of
drilling. This decision reflects the strong opposition of Floridians and
others to industrializing and polluting our waters. Still, much remains
to be done to shield the entire Gulf from offshore drilling and bring
about a just transition to clean energy.”
\[[Statement](https://earthjustice.org/wp-content/uploads/2025/01/reactions-to-president-biden-12a-withdrawals.pdf),
1/6/2025\]

**Jenny Rowland-Shea, Director for Public Lands, Center for American
Progress**

“The Biden administration is answering the call to protect the ocean and
the people living along its coast from the dangers of offshore drilling.
We applaud this decision to safeguard the coastal communities and
economies of the East Coast, eastern Gulf of Mexico, West Coast, and
Alaska—putting people ahead of the whims of special interests. Shoreline
communities deserve to live free from the specter of oil spills and air
pollution, and this action accomplishes that mission for millions of
Americans. From subsistence communities to a healthy fishing economy and
a booming tourism industry, this decision supports more prosperous
coastlines and a greener future for all Americans.”
\[[Statement](https://www.americanprogress.org/press/statement-cap-applauds-bidens-decision-to-protect-625-million-acres-of-u-s-ocean/),
1/6/2025\]

**Marce Gutiérrez-Graudiņš, Founder and** **Executive Director, Azul**

“We applaud President Biden for using his authority under Section 12(a)
of the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (OCSLA) to permanently protect
more than 625 million acres of federal waters from fossil fuel
development,” said Marce Gutiérrez-Graudiņš, Founder and Executive
Director of Azul. “Offshore drilling poses significant risks to coastal
communities, public health, and ecosystems while expanding fossil fuel
extraction undermines climate goals. The 2024 National Azul poll found
that across political ideologies, Latino voters support action to ban
offshore drilling and are even willing to pay more out of pocket to make
it happen. This overwhelming public support provides an opportunity for
incoming administrations to continue strengthening these provisions. The
urgent need to mitigate climate change transcends political leadership.
We thank President Biden for taking this significant and bold step to
protect our ocean and solidify his climate legacy.”
\[[Statement](https://earthjustice.org/wp-content/uploads/2025/01/reactions-to-president-biden-12a-withdrawals.pdf),
1/6/2025\]

**Sandra Bundy, President of the Business Alliance for Protecting the
Atlantic Coast**

 “The Business Alliance for Protecting the Atlantic Coast has always had
our sights set on permanent protection of the eastern seaboard, where
coastal businesses and tourism-based economies remained at risk. We are
thrilled and thankful to learn this goal is going to be realized.
Opening all federal waters to offshore exploration and drilling posed
serious threats to coastal economies and ecosystems that are critical to
millions along the coast. Cities and towns large and small oppose the
industrialization of the Atlantic and are increasingly seeing stronger
storms and flooding and face serious threats from rising sea levels.
Those threats would increase in magnitude if offshore drilling was added
to the mix. President Biden is leaving us all with a legacy of
protecting the Atlantic coast for generations to come. This would not
have been possible without years of dedicated efforts from business,
fishing communities and countless others who used their voices to garner
bipartisan support from Governors and Legislators in coastal states and
beyond.”
\[[Statement](https://earthjustice.org/wp-content/uploads/2025/01/reactions-to-president-biden-12a-withdrawals.pdf),
1/6/2025\]

**Grant Bixby, Founding Member, Business Alliance for Protecting the
Pacific Coast**

“The Pacific west coast economy provides over $80 Billion in GDP via
industries like tourism, outdoor recreation, fishing, retail, and real
estate, supporting more than 825,000 jobs. And BAPPC’s 8,100 business
members rely on a clean ocean to drive their revenues and provide for
their customers, employees and families. We applaud the Biden
administration for using their authority via the Outer Continental Shelf
Lands Act and protecting our businesses by prioritizing a healthy
coastal ecosystem.”
\[[Statement](https://earthjustice.org/wp-content/uploads/2025/01/reactions-to-president-biden-12a-withdrawals.pdf),
1/6/2025\]

**Dr. Chad Nelsen, CEO, Surfrider Foundation**

“Surfrider Foundation applauds the Biden administration for withdrawing
these waters from future oil and gas leasing. Offshore drilling is a
dirty and damaging practice that harms our environment, communities, and
businesses, while worsening climate change. The President’s historic
action is a key step towards ending oil and gas drilling in U.S. waters.
We call on our federal leaders to take further steps to ensure that all
U.S. coasts are protected from this harmful industry.”
\[[Statement](https://earthjustice.org/wp-content/uploads/2025/01/reactions-to-president-biden-12a-withdrawals.pdf),
1/6/2025\]

**Vipe Desai, Executive Director, Surf Industry Members Association**

“The Surf Industry Members Association applauds the federal
administration for permanently protecting the Atlantic, Pacific, Eastern
Gulf, and Bering Sea from new offshore oil drilling. Our businesses and
entire industry rely on and profit from clean beaches and safe ocean
waters for surfing, diving, fishing, boating and other outdoor
activities.”
\[[Statement](https://earthjustice.org/wp-content/uploads/2025/01/reactions-to-president-biden-12a-withdrawals.pdf),
1/6/2025\]

**Julie Packard, Executive Director, Monterey Bay Aquarium**

“This is one of the most important steps that can be taken to protect
our ocean and our coastal communities,” said Monterey Bay Aquarium
Executive Director Julie Packard. “We have learned devastating lessons
from the impacts of offshore oil development off of California, in the
Gulf, and elsewhere. We know that the foundation of thriving coastal
communities and their economies is a healthy, vibrant ocean. Thanks to
this decisive action, these communities no longer need to bear the
threat of offshore drilling. We’re grateful to President Biden and Vice
President Harris,” Packard continued. “Their action will unlock a better
future for coastal communities and economies, tourism, sustainable
fisheries, and wildlife. This will benefit Americans, and our ocean, for
decades to come.”
\[[Statement](https://earthjustice.org/wp-content/uploads/2025/01/reactions-to-president-biden-12a-withdrawals.pdf),
1/6/2025\]

**Joseph Gordon, Campaign Director, Oceana**

“President Biden made the most of a historic opportunity to build on the
legacy of former Democratic and Republican presidents who protected our
coasts from new offshore drilling,” said Oceana Campaign Director Joseph
Gordon. “Protecting new areas from disastrous oil spills is not only
good for our oceans, but also those that rely on clean and healthy
coasts. Our coastlines are home to millions of Americans and support
billions of dollars of economic activity that depend on a healthy coast,
abundant wildlife, and thriving fisheries. New coastal protections build
on a bipartisan tradition, including President Trump’s previous
withdrawals in the southeastern United States in 2020. Presidents of
both parties understand that part of what makes America great are our
treasured coastal communities, and we must safeguard our coasts for
future generations.”
\[[Statement](https://earthjustice.org/wp-content/uploads/2025/01/reactions-to-president-biden-12a-withdrawals.pdf),
1/6/2025\]

**Sarah Weaver, Senior Attorney, Defenders of Wildlife**

“The Biden administration has made a timely decision to protect public
waters, in line with the demands of Americans — especially those living
along our coasts,” said Sierra Weaver, Senior Attorney for Defenders of
Wildlife. “This decision protects endangered species, seafood resources,
and so much more aquatic life, rather than offering up our natural
heritage to corporate interests. It’s not only a smart choice, but the
clear choice.”
\[[Statement](https://earthjustice.org/wp-content/uploads/2025/01/reactions-to-president-biden-12a-withdrawals.pdf),
1/6/2025\]

**Kim McIntyre, Executive Director, Aquarium Conservation Partnership**

“Aquariums across the country applaud President Biden’s historic action
to protect nearly a quarter of U.S. waters from offshore oil and gas
drilling,” said Kim McIntyre, Executive Director of the Aquarium
Conservation Partnership. “Our coastal communities, economic future, and
national heritage depend on clean, vibrant, and healthy coastlines and
ocean ecosystems. ACP members are proud to showcase the living treasures
of our nation’s ocean and coast in our aquariums, and to inspire
stewardship of these irreplaceable national assets.”
\[[Statement](https://earthjustice.org/wp-content/uploads/2025/01/reactions-to-president-biden-12a-withdrawals.pdf),
1/6/2025\]

**Ayana Melvan, Senior Director of Conservation Action, Aquarium
Conservation Partnership**

“Aquarium Conservation Partnership (ACP) members work with communities
they are located in on critical matters that impact our lands,
waterways, freshwater ecosystems, and ocean,” said Ayana Melvan, Senior
Director of Conservation Action for Aquarium Conservation Partnership.
“The work takes all of us,” Melvan continued. “President Biden’s action
to protect our waters from offshore oil and gas drilling supports our
collective movement toward Environmental and Ocean Justice.”
\[[Statement](https://earthjustice.org/wp-content/uploads/2025/01/reactions-to-president-biden-12a-withdrawals.pdf),
1/6/2025\]

**Sarah Guy, Executive Director, Ocean Defense Initiative**

“President Biden has continued a strong bipartisan tradition to protect
our coasts with decisive action to stop new offshore drilling in areas
of our ocean,” said Sarah Guy, Executive Director of Ocean Defense
Initiative. “These protections help the coastal communities, economies,
and marine life that depend on a healthy ocean to thrive. We thank the
Administration for this action and commit to working toward a future
where every coast nationwide is free from the risks and negative impacts
of offshore drilling, reaping the benefits of a healthy ocean for
generations to come.”
\[[Statement](https://earthjustice.org/wp-content/uploads/2025/01/reactions-to-president-biden-12a-withdrawals.pdf),
1/6/2025\]

**Richard Charter, Senior Fellow, The Ocean Foundation**

“Done in response to bipartisan support, actions like this have been
successfully used by presidents of both parties to protect the use of
essential U.S. military facilities or to preserve sustainable local
coastal economies,” said Richard Charter, Senior Fellow with The Ocean
Foundation. “We applaud today’s visionary step to prevent the next
Deepwater Horizon.”
\[[Statement](https://earthjustice.org/wp-content/uploads/2025/01/reactions-to-president-biden-12a-withdrawals.pdf),
1/6/2025\]

**Karyn Bigelow, Director of Programs & Advocacy, the Next 100
Coalition**

“The Next 100 Coalition applauds this historic decision from President
Biden to prevent oil and gas drilling across over 600 million acres of
federal waters. This effort will help to prevent harmful drilling and
the further degradation of ecosystems that are crucial to preserve
marine life, cultural practices, the livelihoods, and food security.
This is one of many decisions that will add to President Biden’s legacy
to protecting the environment.”
\[[Statement](https://earthjustice.org/wp-content/uploads/2025/01/reactions-to-president-biden-12a-withdrawals.pdf),
1/6/2025\]

**Sarah Winter Whelan, Executive Director, Healthy Ocean Coalition**

“Today’s withdrawals show that President Biden and his administration
are listening to the wishes of communities around the country who want
to protect their citizens, coasts, and economies from the destructive
legacy of offshore oil and gas drilling and spilling”, said Sarah Winter
Whelan, Executive Director of the Healthy Ocean Coalition. “As a
coalition of over 300 diverse community groups and citizens, we applaud
today’s action by President Biden to solidify long term protections for
both communities and vital marine ecosystems.”
\[[Statement](https://earthjustice.org/wp-content/uploads/2025/01/reactions-to-president-biden-12a-withdrawals.pdf),
1/6/2025\]

**Jennifer Rokala, Executive Director, Center for Western Priorities**

“With today’s action President Biden continues to build a great
conservation legacy. This will protect hundreds of coastal communities
from the dangers of oil and gas drilling. The United States is already
producing more oil and gas than ever before. Meanwhile, the oil and gas
industry is sitting on over 10 million acres of unused drilling leases
on public lands and over 6,000 unused drilling permits. Now is the time
to expand clean energy, not double down on fossil fuel extraction.”
\[[Statement](https://westernpriorities.org/2025/01/statement-biden-protects-over-625-million-acres-of-u-s-waters-from-offshore-drilling/),
1/6/2025\]

**Vivian Korthuis, Chief Executive Officer, Association of Village
Council Presidents**

“Association of Village Council Presidents (AVCP) would like to express
our sincere gratitude to President Biden’s commitment to protecting our
food security and marine environment by limiting oil and gas leasing in
vulnerable areas. AVCP has opposed offshore oil and gas drilling in the
Northern Bering Sea since the early 1980s. President Biden’s decision
reflects a strong dedication to safeguarding natural resources that are
vital to both our economy and ecosystems. His leadership in prioritizing
sustainable practices ensures a healthier resilient future for us all.
We thank President Biden for his efforts in fostering a balanced
approach to energy development and environmental conservation.”
\[Statement, 1/6/2025\]

**Mary David, Executive Vice President, Kawerak, Inc.**

“We thank President Biden for issuing these withdraws and honoring over
40 years of Tribal advocacy to protect our food security and marine
environment from oil and gas leasing. Kawerak region Tribes have opposed
offshore oil and gas drilling in the Northern Bering Sea since the early
1980s. Tribes are the original stewards of the Northern Bering Sea. We
depend on a healthy ocean, and we appreciate President Biden for
partnering in this stewardship to protect our waters.” \[Statement,
1/6/2025\]

**Jaylene Wheeler, Executive Director, Bering Sea Elders Group**

 “The Bering Sea Elders Group extends our sincere gratitude to President
Biden and his commitment to protecting the Northern Bering Sea. Our
traditional waters of the Bering Sea are interconnected, and protecting
these waters helps ensure our food sovereignty, our cultural, economic,
physical and traditional existence, and our very survival. BSEG has long
opposed offshore oil and gas drilling in the region. We have stewarded
these waters for generations and intend to do so for generations to
come. We thank President Biden for his leadership and partnership in
protecting these waters and our collective future.” \[Statement,
1/6/2025\]

**Carlos Zegarra, Executive Director, Sachamama**

“We applaud the Biden administration’s bold decision to safeguard over
625 million acres of public waters from offshore oil and gas drilling.
This action preserves our precious marine ecosystems and ensures that
future generations of Latinos and all Americans can continue to rely on
these waters for their livelihoods, culture, and way of life.”
\[[Statement](https://earthjustice.org/wp-content/uploads/2025/01/positive_-statements-tracker-12a-withdrawal-1.pdf),
1/6/2025\]

**Marc Yaggi, CEO, Waterkeeper Alliance**

“We welcome this commonsense action taken to protect our oceans, along
with the communities and economies that depend on them. Offshore
drilling harms critical marine ecosystems and devastates local fishermen
and families, whose livelihoods and public health are directly impacted
by destructive industry pollution and environmental degradation. With
climate change-driven disasters only becoming more frequent, this action
could not have come at a more crucial time as we continue the push to
transition away from fossil fuels in favor of cleaner, renewable energy
sources that protect our economies, the environment, and the most
at-risk communities.”
\[[Statement](https://earthjustice.org/wp-content/uploads/2025/01/positive_-statements-tracker-12a-withdrawal-1.pdf),
1/6/2025\]

**Lena Moffitt, Executive Director. Evergreen Action**

“Today, President Biden took a critical step to safeguard our climate
future by protecting our waters from offshore drilling—a resounding win
for frontline communities and our climate. By ending these unpopular
giveaways to Big Oil, President Biden is aligning federal policy with
the urgent need to reject dangerous fossil fuel projects and protect our
oceans and coastal communities from destructive drilling. Americans on
both sides of the aisle support protecting our oceans from Big Oil
giveaways. President Biden’s bold action today underscores that we
cannot afford the continued expansion of oil and gas production if we
are to meet our climate targets and avoid the worst impacts of the
climate crisis. It also ensures that vital public waters can no longer
be exploited for corporate polluters’ profits, leaving frontline
communities to shoulder the costs of cleanup and endure toxic pollution.
As we enter an uncertain political era, this move solidifies progress
toward a cleaner, safer climate future for all Americans.”
\[[Statement](https://earthjustice.org/wp-content/uploads/2025/01/positive_-statements-tracker-12a-withdrawal-1.pdf),
1/6/2025\]

**Amy Kenney, Executive Director, National Ocean Protection Coalition**

“President Biden’s heroic action protects American coastlines, local
economies, and marine life from preventable damage,” said Amy Kenney,
Executive Director of the National Ocean Protection Coalition. “This
withdrawal continues a bipartisan practice to use executive authority to
safeguard coastal communities. All life on Earth depends on a healthy
ocean, and setting reasonable boundaries on destructive extraction
practices will ensure generations to come can continue to enjoy nature
and rely on the ocean to sustain them.”
\[[Statement](https://earthjustice.org/wp-content/uploads/2025/01/positive_-statements-tracker-12a-withdrawal-1.pdf),
1/6/2025\]

**Anna-Marie Laura, Senior Director of Climate Policy, Ocean
Conservancy**

“Today we are one step closer to securing a clean ocean energy future
and we thank President Biden for taking this critical action to protect
areas of our ocean from oil and gas drilling and exploration,” said
Ocean Conservancy’s Senior Director of Climate Policy Anna-Marie Laura.
“Oil and gas development has wreaked havoc on our ocean through daily
leaks, massive spills and extreme air and water pollution. We must, and
can, end offshore oil and gas production and move toward responsible,
renewable energy sources – like offshore wind – to protect our ocean,
while remaining aligned with our goals for American energy security and
independence. Protecting these areas under Section 12(a) of the Outer
Continental Shelf Lands Act enjoys support across the aisle as well as
up and down our country’s coastlines. The President has responded to
calls from coastal towns, communities, tribal leaders, and countless
others who depend on a clean, healthy ocean, and we are grateful for his
leadership.”
\[[Statement](https://earthjustice.org/wp-content/uploads/2025/01/positive_-statements-tracker-12a-withdrawal-1.pdf),
1/6/2025\]

**Cassandra Carmichael, Executive Director, National Religious
Partnership for the Environment**

“As people of faith we are called to care for human health and the
wellbeing of all of God’s creation,” said Cassandra Carmichael,
Executive Director of the National Religious Partnership for the
Environment. “Coastal communities depend on oil-free beaches. The
decision to curtail new offshore drilling in God’s ocean, which includes
the Atlantic, Pacific, North Bering Sea and parts of the Gulf of Mexico,
will protect coastal communities and marine life, leading to a more
healthy and vibrant marine and coastal ecosystems.”
\[[Statement](https://earthjustice.org/wp-content/uploads/2025/01/positive_-statements-tracker-12a-withdrawal-1.pdf),
1/6/2025\]

**Rabbi Jennie Rosenn, Founder & CEO, Dayenu: A Jewish Call to Climate
Action**

“Americans know that the things we value most – our families,
communities, homes, and sacred places – are at risk because of the
extraction and burning of fossil fuels. This decision to prevent more
and egregiously unnecessary offshore drilling is a crucial step toward
realizing a clean energy future,” says Rabbi Jennie Rosenn, Founder &
CEO of Dayenu: A Jewish Call to Climate Action. “We must work to build a
sukkat shalom, a shelter of peace and safety, a world that is no longer
threatened by climate catastrophe and that is livable and sustainable
for all people, for generations to come. Our future lies in readily
available, abundant, and affordable clean energy that delivers clean air
to breathe and water to drink.”
\[[Statement](https://earthjustice.org/wp-content/uploads/2025/01/positive_-statements-tracker-12a-withdrawal-1.pdf),
1/6/2025\]

**Katie Thompson, Executive Director, Save Our Shores**

“We applaud Biden’s announcement to protect federal waters from offshore
drilling,” said Katie Thompson, Executive Director of Save Our Shores.
“We thank the administration for listening to generations of Indigenous
peoples, coastal communities, and local governments who have been
fighting for this protection. The message is clear—our vital coastal
habitats and thriving ocean economy will not be jeopardized by the great
risks of offshore oil development. We look forward to working with
others to uphold Biden’s legacy.”
\[[Statement](https://earthjustice.org/wp-content/uploads/2025/01/positive_-statements-tracker-12a-withdrawal-1.pdf),
1/6/2025\]

**Alexandra Carter, Policy Director, Urban Ocean Lab**

“Urban Ocean Lab celebrates the announcement by President Biden, barring
new offshore oil and gas development along the Atlantic and Pacific
coasts, and in the Eastern Gulf of Mexico and the Northern Bering Sea.
Climate driven sea level rise, storms, and temperature increases are
wreaking havoc on coastal cities and ecosystems. It is urgent that the
United States move quickly away from its reliance on fossil fuels and
toward a clean energy economy to stem the tide of climate impacts. The
President’s announcement is a strong signal of our intentions as a
nation to phase out drilling and invest in justly-sourced renewable
energy sources that will support and protect coastal communities and
ecosystems.”\[[Statement](https://earthjustice.org/wp-content/uploads/2025/01/positive_-statements-tracker-12a-withdrawal-1.pdf),
1/6/2025\]

**Jennifer Rokala, Executive Director, Center for Western Priorities**

“With today’s action President Biden continues to build a great
conservation legacy. This will protect hundreds of coastal communities
from the dangers of oil and gas drilling. The United States is already
producing more oil and gas than ever before. Meanwhile, the oil and gas
industry is sitting on over 10 million acres of unused drilling leases
on public lands and over 6,000 unused drilling permits. Now is the time
to expand clean energy, not double down on fossil fuel extraction.”
\[[Statement](https://earthjustice.org/wp-content/uploads/2025/01/positive_-statements-tracker-12a-withdrawal-1.pdf),
1/6/2025\]

**Northern Chumash Tribal Council**

“The Northern Chumash Tribal Council extends its heartfelt gratitude to
President Biden for his historic decision to protect 625 million acres
of ocean waters from future oil and gas leasing.This visionary action
honors the legacy of the Chumash People, who bore witness to the
devastating 1969 Union oil spill in Santa Barbara—a pivotal event that
ignited modern environmental movements, including the establishment of
Earth Day. That tragic spill became a turning point, inspiring Americans
to challenge the notion that pollution was an inevitable cost of
industrial progress. Today, President Biden’s leadership continues this
legacy of transformation, ensuring that our ancestral waters, coastal
communities, and marine wildlife are safeguarded. We commend the Biden
Administration for its unwavering commitment to environmental
stewardship, combating climate change, and preserving the nation’s
natural treasures for future generations. This decision represents a
profound step toward a thriving and resilient future for our oceans and
the planet.”
\[[Statement](https://earthjustice.org/wp-content/uploads/2025/01/positive_-statements-tracker-12a-withdrawal-1.pdf),
1/6/2025\]

**Grey Gowder, Carolina Ocean Alliance**

“The Carolina Ocean Alliance congratulates the Biden Administration on
its sweeping protection of United States federal waters from new oil and
gas drilling. By withdrawing over 600 million acres of federal waters
from new petrochemical extraction, President Biden ensured that nearly
40% of Americans living in coastal and ocean communities have the agency
we need to restore our coastal ecosystems, earn a sustainable living
from healthy coastal fisheries, and protect deep-sea wonders like the
Blake Plateau coral mounds.”
\[[Statement](https://earthjustice.org/wp-content/uploads/2025/01/positive_-statements-tracker-12a-withdrawal-1.pdf),
1/6/2025\]

**Tonya Bonitatibus, Savannah Riverkeeper**

“Savannah Riverkeeper celebrates this landmark decision, a victory for
the economic viability and livability of coastal communities and marine
ecosystems of our eastern seaboard. Our communities have spoken clearly
and they are not interested in becoming the Gulf Coast. We have built an
economy around retaining the natural components of our oceanfront, not
by destroying them. Offshore oil and gas are not wanted here, and we
applaud the administration for helping keep them out.”
\[[Statement](https://earthjustice.org/wp-content/uploads/2025/01/positive_-statements-tracker-12a-withdrawal-1.pdf),
1/6/2025\]

**Capt. Codty Pierce, Calusa Waterkeeper**

“Calusa Waterkeeper commends the Biden administration actions in
protecting our coastal communities and ecosystems with this historic
action. Offshore drilling is simply not worth the risk of impact to our
Gulf Coast, whether climate change, risk of spill and or impact to our
ground water drinking supply.”
\[[Statement](https://earthjustice.org/wp-content/uploads/2025/01/positive_-statements-tracker-12a-withdrawal-1.pdf),
1/6/2025\]

**Bill Mott, Executive Director, The Ocean Project**

“Thank you to the Biden administration for taking this hugely important
step to protect America’s coasts and ocean from oil and gas drilling and
creating a better future for youth and generations to come,” said Bill
Mott, Executive Director of The Ocean Project. “This action continues a
strong bipartisan tradition of protecting coastal communities and
economies, and safeguarding spectacular ocean wildlife – such as
dolphins, sea turtles, fish, and shorebirds,” Mott continued. “Most
Americans oppose new offshore drilling, and that’s especially true for
younger generations and for those in coastal communities who depend on
healthy ocean ecosystems to support jobs in recreation, fishing, and
tourism. This action keeps hundreds of coastal communities safer from
oil spills.”
\[[Statement](https://earthjustice.org/wp-content/uploads/2025/01/positive_-statements-tracker-12a-withdrawal-1.pdf),
1/6/2025\]

**Robert W. Davidson, President & CEO, Seattle Aquarium**

“We celebrate the protection of nearly 250 million acres of federal
waters off the west coast—waters that are essential for animals from
endangered orcas to fish and seabirds,” said Robert W. Davidson,
President & CEO of the Seattle Aquarium. “We thank President Biden for
taking this essential action to prevent new offshore oil and gas
drilling, and protect our one world ocean and the millions of people and
all the marine life that depend on it.”
\[[Statement](https://earthjustice.org/wp-content/uploads/2025/01/positive_-statements-tracker-12a-withdrawal-1.pdf),
1/6/2025\]

\###
