---
category: press-briefings
date: '2021-05-28'
modified_time: 2021-05-28 16:17:00-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/05/28/press-gaggle-by-principal-deputy-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-aboard-air-force-one-en-route-hampton-va/
published_time: 2021-05-28 16:16:59-04:00
title: "Press Gaggle by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre Aboard\
  \ Air Force One En Route Hampton,\_VA"
---
 
Aboard Air Force One  
En Route Hampton, Virginia

1:24 P.M. EDT

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  This afternoon, at Joint Base Langley-Eustis, the
President and the First Lady will address service members and their
families and thank them for their sacrifices.  They will speak from
their personal experience as a proud military family; the President’s
long history working on foreign policy and visiting troops aboard
\[abroad\]; and the First Lady’s work to support military and veteran
families, caregivers, and survivors, including through Joining Forces.

Finally, the President will reflect on the service of the armed forces
in Afghanistan and Iraq, and the debt — the debt owed to those who made
the ultimate sacrifice for our country.

I’m going to read the statement from the Press Secretary, Jen Psaki, on
Memorial Day weekend and the gas prices because I — we know that there’s
been a lot of inquiry on this.

Across America, the pandemic is in retreat.  As we continue to make
progress and our life returns to normal, Americans are eager to make up
for lost time and more people are traveling this Memorial Day weekend.

And as Americans are hitting the road, they are paying less, in real
terms, for gas than they have on average over the last 15 years.  And
they’re paying — they’re paying about the same as they did in May 2018
and May 2019.  The administration’s success in beating the pandemic and
getting our economy back on track has led to increased demand for gas as
the — as the country reopens.

But while price — prices have increased from the lows last year as
demand drastically dipped, prices at just about $3 per gallon are still
well in line with what there have been — what they’ve been in recent
decades.

And last week, prices have already stabilized after a spike earlier this
month as the Colonial Pipeline is fully flowing and the supply situation
returns to normal.  This is due in part to the administration’s
aggressive whole-of-government response to the unprecedented shutdown of
the pipeline. 

While oil prices are shaped by glo- — global forces, the President knows
that gas prices are a pa- — a pain point for Americans, especially the
middle-class families he’s put at the center of our economic agenda. 
That’s why President Biden is oppose — opposed any proposal to raise the
gas tax.  And that is why he will — we will continue to monitor prices
and are glad that Americans can get on the road again. 

Here’s a quick preview of the President’s schedule next week: On Sunday,
he will deliver remarks during the Memorial Day service hosted by the
Delaware Commission of Veterans Affairs at Veterans Memorial Park at the
Delaware Memorial Bridge. 

On Monday, the President will return to Washington, D.C.  He and the
First Lady, the Vice President, and the Second Gentleman will
participate in a wreath-laying ceremony at the Tomb of the Unknown
Soldiers at Arlington Ceme- — National Cemetery.  The President will
also deliver remarks on the National Memorial Day Observance.

On Tuesday, the President will travel to Tulsa, Oklahoma; deliver
remarks; and he’ll commemorate the 100th anniversary of the Tulsa Race
Massacre.  He’ll also meet with surviving members of the community who
are now between the age of 101 and 107.

On Wednesday, the President will deliver remarks on the COVID-19
response. 

And on Friday, President Biden will deliver remarks on the economy.

I’ll take a few questions, as we just landed. 

Q    Karine, the Senate defeated the September — the January 6th
commission today.  Can we get a response from the President and what he
wants to see next?  And could that include a select committee from the
House?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, as the President said during his speech before a
joint session of Congress, in — in the very place that had been des- —
desecrated during the insurrection, the events of January 6th
represented an existential crisis of our democracy. 

That’s why the President supported the bipartisan commission that was
proposed and why he consistently called for a full and independent
investigation into what happened and how we can ensure something like
that could never happen again.

Members of the Senate aren’t sent to Washington to — to rubberstamp any
party’s views.  They swear on — an oath to support and defend the
Constitution.  And today, unfortunately, they failed to do that. 

As far as the alternative option that you asked, Jonathan, the President
has been clear that the shameful events of January 6th need to be
independently and fully investigated.  He remains committed to that, and
we will continue to work with Congress to find a path forward to ensure
that happens.

Q    Is he considering forming a presidential commission?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have anything else to share.  He truly
believes that this should be done on a bipartisan — in a bipartisan way.

We have to remember, when it — when it passed the House, it was a
bipartisan pass where 35 Republicans voted for it.  And he believes the
Senate should have — do the same.

Q    Can you give us an update on Belarus sanctions?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have any more updates.  As I mentioned, the
President’s team is going to put together some options for him.  And
more — there will be more to come.

Q    The New York Times reported that there was a raft of unexplored
evidence into this sort of Wuhan — the origins of the coronavirus.  Can
you talk a little bit about how much unexamined intelligence there is
and whether that’s why the President asked for a — was part of the
reason the President asked for a larger review?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Thanks for your question, Annie.  Look, we do not
comment on intelligence, as you can imagine.  We’re going to — we’re
going to continue to look at the intelligence.  We believe there’s more
work to do, hence the 90-day review.

Q    How does — how does the latest reported hack that’s attributed to
Russia impact the summit that’s coming up between the President and
Putin?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  There’s been no changes to — to the summit.  We’re
going to move forward with that, as you can imagine.

Q    What is the White House concern on the — on the cyberattack
though?  What — how concerned is the White House about this escalation?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, we are — we are aware of the phishing incident and
we are monitoring the situation.  The Cybersecurity and Infrastructure
Security Agency is managing this incident and working with USAID.  We
refer you to USAID and CISA. 

But I’ll say while we may — while we may learn more, this is basic
phishing which is blocked by most systems automatically.  As Microsoft’s
blog noted, it’s likely to have been blocked by automatic — automated
system as spam.  If an email got by the automated system, a user would
still have to click on the link to activate the malicious payload.  And
we should all know better than to click links in unknown emails. 

I direct you to the USAID or CISA for further questions.

Q    Secretary Mayorkas spoke positively about the vaccine — the
possibility of a vaccine passport today.  Can you clear up where the
administration stands on this?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, it’s — we haven’t moved on our — on our stance
on this.  There will be no federal vaccination database and no federal
mandate requiring everyone to obtain a single vaccination credential.

Q    Can you explain what he meant then by his comments?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Again, the U.S. government recognizes that other
countries have or may have foreign-entry requirements.  We will be
monitoring these and helping all U.S. travelers meet those, but we will
not be — there will be no federal mandate requiring anyone to obtain a
single vaccination credential.

Q    Do you have a quick White House response to Republican criticism
over the size of President Biden’s budget?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, we — as you know, we got our — the counteroffer.
 We will be working this weekend, and taking a look — a deep look, a
deep dive into what the counteroffer was — was presented by Capito and
her — and the senators there.

Q    I actually meant the budget.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, the budget.  I’m so sorry. 

Q    That’s okay. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m so sorry.  I am so sorry about that. 

Q    All good.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Things are moving so quickly.  The budget will be
released soon, so I’m not going to get ahead of it.

Q    It’s out now. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh, okay.  Well — (laughs) — so, like — well, I have
not seen it.  So, is it —

AIDE:  (Inaudible) 1:30.

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay.  But here’s what I can say — here’s what I can
say about the budget: When the President took office, Congress had
already spent more than $3 trillion trying to get the pandemic crisis
under control.  And there was more work to do, which is why he took the
decisive action to get the economy back on track through American Rescue
Plan.

The budget does exactly what the President told the country that he
would do: grow the economy, create jobs, advance his Jobs Plan and his
Families Plan, and do so responsibly by requiring the wealthiest
Americans and big corporations to pay their fair share. 

The economic plan is already showing results: New unemployment claims
are down almost 50 percent since he took office.  He’s created more new
jobs than any President in his first month in office.  And growth is at
40 — 40th-year high.

AIDE:  Okay, thank you.  Thank you. 

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We have to go.  And I didn’t — I lost track of time. 
I didn’t realize it was past 1:30. 

Thanks, guys. 

Q    Thank you.

1:32 P.M. EDT
