---
category: press-briefings
date: '2021-05-26'
modified_time: 2021-05-26 19:13:45-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/05/26/press-briefing-by-principal-deputy-press-secretary-karine-jean-pierre-may-26-2021/
published_time: 2021-05-26 19:13:43-04:00
title: Press Briefing by Principal Deputy Press Secretary Karine Jean-Pierre, May
  26, 2021
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

1:29 P.M. EDT  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Hi, everybody.  Okay, good to see everyone.  I have a
couple of things for you guys at the top.   
  
Yesterday, we made history: Kristen Clarke was confirmed with at — with
— as the first woman and first woman of color to lead the Civil Rights
Division at the Department of Justice.  And Chiquita Brooks-LaSure
became the first Black person to be confirmed as Administrator for the
Centers for Medical — Medicare and Medicaid Services.  
  
Kristen’s career was launched in the office that she now leads.  She
personally prosecuted crimes based on hatred and bigotry, human
trafficking, domestic violence, and sexual assault.  She has served at
two of the nation’s oldest civil rights organizations, where she worked
on everything from voting rights to equal education and employment.  At
the Department of Justice, she will continue advancing civil rights
progress, including on police reform.  
  
Chiquita is a lifelong public servant who has worked at OMB, on Capitol
Hill, at HHS, and at CMS where she helped implement the Affordable Care
Act.  Chiquita brings a wealth of knowledge to CMS, where she will work
to strengthen Medicare and Medicaid, bring down healthcare costs for
American families, and advance health equity in communities across the
country.   
  
The President was proud to nominate Kristen and Chiquita for these
positions, thanks the Senate for their bipartisan confirmation, and is
honored to have them serve in these key leadership positions.    
  
As you all saw yesterday, we announced that next Tuesday, June 1st, the
President will travel to Tulsa, Oklahoma, and deliver remarks to
commemorate the 100th anniversary of the Black Wall Street Massacre.  
  
While there, he will meet with surviving members of the community now
between the ages of 107 to — 101 to 107, and tour the Greenwood Culture
Center.  We’ll have additional details as we get closer to Tuesday.  
  
As you all know, President Biden believes affordable, safe housing is
the foundation upon which families build their lives.  And he knows that
stable housing will remain out of reach for tens of millions of
Americans even after COVID-19 pandemic and economic crises come to an
end.   
  
Across the country, there is a 300,000-unit gap in annual housing
supply, 11 million families pay more than half their income on rent, 3
million families with children under six reside in homes with lead
paint, and thousands of working families are displaced every year as a
result of extreme weather fueled by climate change.  These changes are
even more severe in low-income communities and communities of color,
which have been segregated, excluded, and neglected for generations.   
  
Investing in housing is an essential part of President Biden’s strategy
to grow strong, healthy communities in every ZIP Code.  So, today, the
administration is releasing two new factsheets highlighting some of the
key housing elements of the American Jobs Plan.  
  
The President’s plan proposes a bold $213 billion investment in
America’s housing infrastructure through a number of federal programs
and proposals with bipartisan support.  
  
This investment is paired with expansion of bipartisan tax credits and
incentives to lower barriers to affordable housing in more — and
higher-opportunity — places across the country.  
  
Together, our estimates suggest this will enable the construction and
modernization of more than 2 million affordable and sustainable places
to live.  Along the way, these investments will create and sustain
hundreds of thousands of good-paying union jobs, and provide employment
and economic opportunities for residents of assisted housing.  
  
As you may have seen by now, today, the President asked the intelligence
community to redouble their efforts to collect and analyze information
that could bring us closer to a definitive conclusion, and to report
back to him in 90 days.  
  
Back in early 2020, the President called for the CDC to get access to
China to learn about the virus so we could fight it more effectively. 
Getting to bottom of the origin is this — of this pandemic will help us
understand how to prepare for the next pandemic and the next one.  
  
As we have done throughout our COVID response, we have been committed to
a whole-of-government effort to ensure we’re doing everything to both
understand and end this pandemic and to prevent future pandemics. That
is why the President is asking the U- — the U.S. intelligence community,
in cooperation with other elements of our government, to redouble
efforts to collect and analyze information that could bring the world
closer to a definitive conclusion on the origin of the virus, and
deliver a report to him, again, in 90 days.    
  
It will be another whole-of-government aff- — effort, as I mentioned,
including work by our National Labs and other agencies.  Importantly, we
will continue to — pushing for a stronger, multilateral investigation
into the origins of the virus in China.  
  
And we will continue to press China to participate in a full,
transparent, evidence-based international investigation with the needed
access to get to the bottom of a virus that’s taken more than 3 million
lives across the globe and, critically, to share information and lessons
that will help us all prevent future pandemics.  
  
With that, Zeke, will you take us away?  
  
Q    Hey, Karine.  First, on that last bit about the calls for China to
cooperate with these international investigations: What are the
consequences for China if it does not — if it continues its current
posture, which has not been to allow for a free and independent —
independ- — investigations into the origins of the COVID-19 pandemic?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, right now, we’re just going to focus on the
President’s announcement on the 90-day investigation — a more deeper
investigation to really look at the core of how did we get here — right?
— with this pandemic, and where — the origins, clearly, of COVID-19. 
And once we get to that — once we get to that conclusion, we’ll have
more to share.  
  
Q    So — but, in terms of, you know, cooperating with the WHO
investigations, there’s nothing new from the White House in terms of
encouraging China or penalties for China if it does not, sort of,
cooperate with the investigation going forward?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — I’m not going to prejudge or, you know, make any
preannouncements at this time.  We’re going to go with the 90-day
investigation and see where it takes us from there.  
  
Q    Then, on that 90-day investigation, is White House committing to
making the results of that investigation public?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, we’ll have more to share after the 90 days.  
  
Q    And then a final just on this — the President’s statement noted
that at least one member of the intelligence community was leaning in
the direction of there being a potential for a laboratory accident
involved.  Which member of the intelligence agency — community was
it?   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have that information to share with you right
now.  I think the most important thing is that the President has made —
has made a decision to make sure that — to get to the core — right? — to
really figure out where did this — where did the origin come from, to do
this additional 90-day review after asking his team to look into it into
March — in March.  So he wants to take that next step.  
  
Go ahead, Mary.  
  
Q    Thank you.  Has the President been briefed yet, this morning, on
the shooting in San Jose, California?  And any other details you can
share with us — who may have briefed him?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Excuse me.  Just give me one second.   
  
So the White House is monitoring the situation, and our hearts go out to
the victims and their families.  I know local officials have addressed
this publicly.  And there is an ongoing investigation, as we all know. 
We will continue to stay in close contact with them and o- — and offer
any assistance as needed.  We still don’t have — we still don’t know all
of the details.  
  
But that — but what’s clear, as the President has said, is that we are
suffering from an epidemic of gun violence in this country, both in mass
shootings and in the lives that are being taken in daily gun violence
that doesn’t make national headlines.  That’s why he has already taken
an initial set of actions on gun violence that will save lives, and
that’s why he’s go- — he’s calling on Congress to take action, including
calling on the Senate to pass the three bills to strengthen background
checks that have already cleared the House with bipartisan support and
which have the overwhelming backing of the American people.  
  
Q    And on infrastructure, I know you’re awaiting, sort of, the
Republican counterproposal here.  Any update?  Any more details you may
have received on Republicans’ next move here?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, you know, as we all know, this is — negotiations
work in this really funny way: We make an offer, they make a counter,
and then we counter.  So, as you all know, we made a — we made our offer
and our — and our counter, and we’re waiting to hear from Republicans,
which we’re hearing will happen shortly, what their counter will be. 
This is a process.   
  
We understand that this is a town that hasn’t seen a whole lot of
bipartisanship over the last few years — the last four years to be
exact.  But this President is committed to trying to end that, which is
why you have seen us continue to negotiate in good faith.   
  
The President’s red line — the line in the sand — has been very, very
clear.  The way that he does not want to see, he does not want this to
go is without any action at all.  So inaction is that red line, and he
wants to make sure that we don’t tax people who make less than 4- —
$400,000 a year.   
  
So we look forward to seeing what they come back with.  
  
Q    One more on this.  Senator Chris Coons — obviously a close ally of
the President, someone who generally has a pretty good read on things
over here — he has said that he thinks the Senate could pass a
trillion-dollar proposal focused more on traditional infrastructure —
splitting off some of the other items that the President has called for
— and doing that just with Democratic support.  Is a trillion dollars
something the President can support?  And would he back splitting things
up like this?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, look, I — look, Mary, we’re still going through
this negotiation process.  We have to see what the Republicans, the
senators on the Hill are going to come back with.  And once we have, you
know, their — their counteroffer, we’ll know more and what steps to take
next.  
  
Q    Okay.  Just, lastly, a bit of a personal question.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  Yeah, sure.  
  
Q    Your presence here today is making history.  You’re the first Black
woman to stand behind that podium speaking on behalf of the President in
30 years.  Just wondering if you could share your reflections with us.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, thank you for the question.  You know, it’s —
it’s a real honor to be standing — to just be standing here today.  It
doesn’t — you know, the — I appreciate the historic nature, I really
do.  But I believe that, you know, behind — being behind this podium,
being in this room, being in this building is not about one person; it’s
about, you know, what we do on behalf of the American people.   
  
Clearly, the President believes in “representation matters,” and I
appreciate him giving me this opportunity.  And it’s another reason why
I think we are all so proud that this is the most diverse administration
in history.   
  
But, again, this is not about me; this is not about any of us.  And, you
know, anytime I’m behind here — and I think you’ve heard Jen say this as
well — we are going to be truthful.  We’re going to — we’re going to be
transparent.  And that’s the way, I believe, the President would want us
to communicate to the American people.   
  
Thank you for the question.  
  
Go ahead.   
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  Welcome.  The White House publicly has mostly
focused on the WHO investigation into the origins. What changed from
that to the President’s statement today?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, you know, nothing has changed if you — if you
think about it.  As I mentioned in the readout and I’m sure you saw in
the statement, the President has asked his team to look into this back
in March.  So, this is something that has been ongoing.  We have been
pretty vocal with WHO these past several months.  And so, this is just a
continuation of what the President has been focused on.  We’re going to
see what happens this next — these next 90 days.   
  
As I — you know, we just read out, it was inconclusive, so we need to
get to the bottom of this.  As we all know, we’ve lost almost 600,000
Americans to COVID-19, and we have to get a better sense of the origin
of COVID-19, and, also, how do we prevent the next — you know, the next
pandemic.  And so that is the focus of this — of this announcement that
we put out this  
morning — the President put out this morning.  
  
Q    And when it — when it comes to the IC, their conclusions, or where
they land on things, hasn’t actually changed that much in the last 12
years.  Is the President concerned that the IC does not have enough
visibility, even if they’re redoubling their efforts into what actually
— is there a collection problem here?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, I think this is going to be the process. 
Right?  They have 90 days to, kind of, you know, get a deeper look on —
on this.  And then we’ll have a better sense — a better sense of where
to take this next.  
  
I mean, I do want to go back for a second.  You know, we’ve gotten this
question about the origins, and we’ve been pretty vocal.  Right?  This
administration — we have seen — we didn’t have access.  You know, China
wasn’t transparent enough.  We have been saying that for a very long
time — that China needed to provide more access to the lab, cooperate
more fully with the scientific investigators — and we don’t think that
they have met that standard.   
  
So, we’ve been clear that sound and technic- — and sound and technically
critical theory should be thoroughly eval- — evalulated \[sic\] — and
data — before we can give a full pronouncement.   
  
So, that’s the one part, right?   That’s the WHO and China.  And now the
President has asked his team to do another — to do a 90-day review.   
  
Q    And then just one quick one on infrastructure:  Republicans have
talked about repurposing COVID money as a potential payfor here.  Does
the administration think that’s feasible?  Is that something the
President is willing to consider?

MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  So, Phil, as you know, we have not seen the
counterproposal yet.  We’ll look forward to reviewing that.  It seems
like tomorrow that might happen.   
  
But, you know, the President has been clear that his line in the sand,
as I just said, is raising taxes on Americans making <s>more</s>
\[less\] than $400,000 a year.  
  
But we should also be clear that there are simply not hundreds of
billions of dollars in COVID-relief funds available to rep- —
repurpose.  As of the end of March, about 95 percent of the $3 trillion
in pre-Rescue Plan COVID relief funding has either been obligated or is
for PPP, unemployment insurance, or nutria- — nutrition assistance,
where the money is going out as planned to specific businesses and
people.  
  
Of the remaining 5 percent, the largest categories of unobligated
balances are in the Healthcare Provider Relief Fund, funding for rural
hospitals and healthcare providers, and disaster loans for small
businesses.   
  
So, turning to the American Rescue Plan, the legislation is working
exactly as needed, delivering relief to family businesses and
communities to bridge our economy, to end the pandemic, and in- — and
into a strong recovery, which is what we’re working towards.   
  
Q    Thank you.  First, on the economy and concerns about inflation: The
JPMorgan CEO, Jamie Dimon, warned today that we were going to have more
inflation, less productivity, and slower growth if future federal
spending, administration spending isn’t done productively.  
  
The federal government — not historically known for efficiency.  So, can
you guarantee there’s not going to be any waste in the possibly $4
trillion more of spending in the next couple months?   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, you — so let me, first, step back for a second
when — when we think about the inflation, when we think about where we
are currently.  
  
Look, the President plan — plan is — the President’s plan is working. 
We are growing the economy from the bottom up and the middle out faster
than any time in the last 40 years.  We’re creating an average of
500,000 jobs a month, up from 60,000 a month before he took office —
before this President took office.  And if you look at unemployment
insurance claims, they are down.  And Americans have much-needed money
in their pockets thanks to the American Rescue Plan.   
  
So we’re going in the right trajectory, right?  We’re looking at the
trend, and the trend is going in the right way.  And, you know, this is
a President who understands about making sure that we’re not wasteful —
right? — making sure that — he was the — when we think about when he was
a Vice President, he overlooked that stimulus recovery package back
then.  And so, he made sure there was no — no corruption and no waste. 
And so, he understands how this all works, and he has a team that will
be on top of this as well.  
  
Q    And I know that one of the big things for him is not to raise taxes
on anybody that makes less than $400,000 a year.  But if there is
inflation because of wasteful spending or any other reason and
everything is more expensive for everybody, is there concern that that
could be a tax on the poor effectively?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I just want to make — be really clear about the
American Jobs Plan and the American Families Plan proposal.  Look, both
of those plans will create job opportunities for all Americans, rebuild
our crumbling infrastructure, invest in research and development, and
educate our children, and combat climate change.  
  
So, these plans that we’re talking about is actually an investment in
our country, an investment in people, an investment in families that we
need — that we have long needed, even before we saw what the pandemic
has done to everyday Americans.  
  
Q    And then just last one: On COVID-19 origins, if it turns out that
COVID-19 originated from some sort of a lab accident in China — which,
the President now says, one element of the intel community thinks is
possible — would the President seek to punish China?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I — we’re not going to go there just yet.  We have to
go through the 90-day review.  And once we have the 90-day review, we’ll
be able to reassess.  
  
Q    But just on a 30- — just to take a step back: Anything that kills
591,116 Americans, is that something — if another nation either was
responsible or knew more than they were letting on — like you said, they
weren’t letting the inspectors in and that hurt the overall
investigation forever — what would the President do?  Would he do
anything?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, he’s doing something right now.  He’s been —
he asked his team, back in March — right? — to do — to do this — to look
into this — look into the origins of COVID-19.  
  
This is incredibly important, like his statement says.  We need to find
out how — where the COVID-19 originated from.  So this Pr- — the
President has been very clear.  He actually, you know, spoke out about
this back in 2020.  So, this is not the first time we’ve heard his
voice, his concern about the origins of COVID-19.  
  
So, we’re just taking the next step.  I’m just not going to prejudge. 
I’m not going to make a statement until, you know — until we know what
happens after this 90-day review.   
  
Thanks, Peter.  
  
Another Peter.  
  
Q    Karine, welcome.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  (Laughs.)  Hey.  
  
Q    As for the opening statement, we received a statement on the
origins of COVID-19 from the President where he said, among other
things, that this report may include specific questions for China.   
  
Given China’s lack of transparency as it relates to the WHO Joint Study,
why does President Biden think that China would answer the questions
that the U.S. wants as it relates to the origin of COVID-19?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Look, the COVID-19 pandemic has taken, I think, 1.3
million lives globally; 600,000 American lives, about.  And it’s
imperative that we get to the bottom of just where the pandemic
originated — not just for the purposes of understanding this pandemic,
but the pandemics to come, as I’ve already, kind of, alluded to.   
  
And so this is something that we’re going to, you know, continue to have
conversations on.  This is a global effort.  It’s not just United States
alone as we’re working with the WHO.  This is our process here with the
90-day — that I just mentioned — review.  But we’re just going to
continue to work with WHO, and — and WHO is going to continue to — to
work with China on this.  
  
Q    So I understand why we want it to get done, but why do we think
that China would cooperate?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  You know, this is — this is something that you have to
ask the Chinese government, right?  This is something that should be
impor- — it should — should matter to them —  
  
Q    Has the President —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  — but this is a question for them, as well.  
  
Q    Has the President specifically asked or made this ask of President
Xi of China for their cooperation in this effort?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m not — I’m not going to go into details of private
conversation that the President may have — may have had with President
Xi.  All I can say today is that we’re going to do this 90-day review,
and this is what the President asked for, and we’ll see where it takes
us.  
  
Q    If not the President, has the White House made this ask of the
Chinese government more broadly?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Again, I don’t have anything — anything to preview for
you on that or to read out.  
  
Q    Let me ask you about Belarus, if I can, very quickly.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    The President said yesterday — I think his specific language was
that sanctions — it’s “in play,” he said of sanctions.  Has the White
House, this administration made any final decisions about possible
sanctions against Belarus?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  The President, as we said yesterday as well, he asked
his team to look into it and come up with a — kind of, a menu of options
on how to move forward. So we don’t have anything yet to — to read out
on that.  
  
Q    Last item.  I’m just following up on the awful tragedy that’s —
we’re still learning more details about in San Jose, California, right
now.  You said what the President is doing broadly in an effort and what
he’s been pushing Congress on.  Are there any Republican lawmakers in
particular that he’s reaching out to?  And what specifically is he doing
in terms of that effort now to try to push this along, given great
frustration that it appears stalled?  Any broad gun reforms?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  As you know, as I laid out, the President made
some — you know, some historic proposal plans of his DOJ just about a
month — a month and a half ago, which is the most — you know, which is,
kind of, historic, when you think about what Presidents have done in the
past when it comes to dealing with gun violence prevention.   
  
You know, the President talks to many Republicans and Democrats on the
Hill.  As you — as you know, he was — he was a senator for 36 years, a
Vice President for 8 years.  He has a lot of close relationships.  They
talk about an array of issues.  And so, I don’t have any specific
conversation to read out to you about this particular issue, but he
continues to call on Congress to move on getting — getting gun reform
done.  
  
Q    Thank you.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Trevor.  
  
Q    Thank you.  So there was a letter from 15 states to your Climate
Envoy John Kerry this week.  And in that letter, they expressed issues
with Kerry pushing banks to divest from fossil fuel companies.  And they
said that they would be pushing back on that.  Do you — I mean, is that
going to hurt your strategy?  Do you have any comment about that
letter?  Any reaction to it?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I have not seen this letter.  I don’t have a — I don’t
have a comment for you right now, but I’m happy to go back and talk to
the team and get back to you on that specific letter.  
  
Q    And then, just on a separate issue: The President spoke with
Egypt’s President Sisi on Monday.  And in your readout of that call, you
said that President Biden underscored the importance of a constructive
dialogue on human rights in Egypt.   
  
Could you talk a little bit about exactly what dialogue Biden is having
with Sisi about human rights in Egypt?  And will it go beyond talk?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So I have to tell you: I don’t have any more to read
out from that specific conversation from the readout.  I’m going to let
the readout sit for itself.  But I don’t have any more specifics on that
particular human rights issue.  
  
Q    And just anything to preview about what you — how you plan to
approach human rights?  I mean, you have a budget coming out tomorrow
that has foreign aid.  You — you know, you have a lot of leverage with
governments like Eqypt, as we saw with Suez —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — as we saw with Gaza.  Is there scope for the White House to put
pressure on (inaudible)?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, as you can imagine, our — you know, our — one of
the things that the President really puts front and center is his
relationships — his deep, long relationships with many of the leaders,
clearly, across the globe.  He has had decades of experience in foreign
policy.   
  
And so one of the things that he truly believes in, as it comes to how
we’re moving forward with foreign policy, is diplomacy and making sure
that we’re having those critical important conversation.   
  
Those type of conversation is probably best, as you can imagine, to have
it quietly, to have it behind the scenes, and to just to continue to
talk about our values and what’s important to this country and how we
see us moving forward when we talk about — especially something like
humanitarian issues.  
  
Q    Thank you.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Go ahead, Weijia.  
  
Q    Karine, thank you.  It’s great to see you here.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Good to see you.  
  
Q    I’m trying to get more clarity on the timing of the President’s
statement today on the COVID-19 origins.  He said that he received the
report earlier this month about the origins and asked for additional
follow-up.  Did that follow-up include the current position of the IC? 
Or, in other words, when did the President first learn about the IC’s
current position that they don’t have enough information to say if it
was the animal host that caused this or a lab accident?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, I — from just his readout, it said that he
learned about it a month ago.  So I don’t have more to read out than
that.  
  
You know, one of the reasons that we’re doing it now is because
classified information takes time to declassify.  And so that is a
process that takes some time.  And so, now we are — we are sharing that
information with you all.  
  
But just, you know, it was a month ago that he got the inf- — that he
got the readout from the IC.   
  
Q    Does it have anything to do with those reports that three
researchers in the Wuhan lab were hospitalized in November 2019?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, I mean, this is something that the President has
been working on for some time — right? — as I mention in the readout, as
we put out in the statement.  And this is something that the President
called out back in 2020 — early 2020.  So this is something — this is an
issue that has been at top of mind and that he wanted to dig into and
make sure that we really get to the bottom of how we got here.  
  
Q    I guess I’m just trying to understand if there’s new evidence that
emerged or a new posture from the IC, because medical experts, including
Dr. Fauci, have long said that it’s highly likely that the virus came
from an animal-to-human transmission.  So what changed that led to
today?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, the readout basically said it was inconclusive. 
Right?  That we needed to do some — needed more time to get to — to get
to a better answer.  
  
So, this is why we’re doing a 90-day review to get a better sense of
where do we take this next.  
  
Q    What does “redoubling” mean?  What more can the intelligence
community be doing that they’re not already doing?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, I think, you know, we’ve talked about making
sure that we are getting the data — right? — from China.  Right?  Making
sure that we’re getting more information so we can — we can —  
  
You know, it’s hard to prejudge these things.  Right?  It’s hard to make
pronouncements of something when you don’t have all the information that
you need.   
  
So this is going to take some time.  This is going to continue to work
with the WH- — the WHO as well.  These are not mutually exclusive; these
are happening at the same time.  So it’s going to take more
collaboration and more conversations as well.  
  
Q    Thanks.  And just one quick one on Belarus.  Roman Protasevich’s
mother has issued an urgent plea to world leaders to help free her son,
saying, “Please save him.  They’re going to kill him in there.”  Is
there anything that President Biden can do to help secure his release? 
And has he communicated yet with President Lukashenko?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, one thing — I don’t have a call to read out on
your second question.  But, you know, the President, as I mentioned, has
asked his team for options.  They are working through them now.  He
spoke a little bit about it yesterday, as I think Peter just
mentioned.   
  
Look, the Europeans are leading on this.  This was a flight that was
between European capitals.  There were Americans on this flight,
clearly, as well.  And we are very concerned.   
  
The President condemned it, and there will be more — more to come.   
  
Q    Thanks so much.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No problem.  Thanks, Weijia.  
  
Go ahead, Mario.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  Congratulations again on being at the podium.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Thank you.  Thank you.  
  
Q    Another question on COVID.  The language that you all use
specifically mentioned an “accident.”  Does that mean that you’ve ruled
out — or the IC has ruled out that it was deliberate or not an
accident?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  We haven’t ruled out anything yet.  But, again, we’re
going to go through this — you know, this redoubling down of another —
of a 90-day review, and we’ll have more to share.  
  
Q    And then, what makes the President confident that the IC community
— the intelligence community, rather, can come up with more or better
evidence in the next 90 days, given it’s been working on this for the
better part of the past year?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well — well, you know, he asked them to, again, double
down, as you just mentioned, and dig in and see if we can get more data,
more information.   
  
There’s not much more I can say about what, you know, our intelligence
community is doing.  We’re going to let them do this 90-day review and
we’ll see where we are at the end of 90 days.  
  
Q    And the last couple — just one more on China.  The Chinese have
indicated that they’d like to see some of the tariffs rolled back before
they engage in discussions with the U.S. Trade Representative.  Is that
something that the administration is willing to make concessions to
facilitate those talks?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I don’t have anything to share about the tariffs and
trade — that we’re — that we’re — in conversations that we’re currently
having right now.  
  
Q    And final question, domestically: The President, of course, met
with the Floyd family yesterday.  How does his meeting change the White
House’s strategy toward getting police reform passed?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I’m so sorry, can you say that last part?  I didn’t
hear it.   
  
Q    The President met with the Floyd family yesterday.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yes.  Yes.     
  
Q    How does that meeting, if in any way, impact the President’s
strategy toward getting the George Floyd Policing in Justice Act \[sic\]
passed?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, so, as you mentioned, the — you know, his
meeting with the Floyd family yesterday — this is deeply personal to the
President.  Over the last year, he’s gotten to know this remarkable
family.  This is a President that knows about loss, personally, as we
all know.  And he has connected with them on a very personal level not
just as President and a grieving — not just as a President and a
grieving family, but on a far more personal level.  
  
He has been particularly taken by Gianna, George’s younger daughter, who
was here as well.  He met her before the funeral last year of Ju- — I
think that — I believe that was June 8th — and has kept her close to his
heart ever since.  
  
And, you know, she — he has talked about her famously saying that her
father changed the world.  And the President has not only told her she
is correct, but he is committed to doing everything in his power to make
it so.  He told her this at the funeral last year, and he reiterated his
— his commitment to that after the verdict and again yesterday when they
met here at the White House.   
  
So, when it comes to police reform, this is a priority for this
President.  He said it in his speech — his joint speech — joint — his
speech — joint speech in Congress — right? — his joint Congress speech. 
And — and he’s going to continue to work on this today, tomorrow, and
every day.   
  
He is very pleased to see and heartened to see the bipartisanship of
negotiators on the Hill.  This is Senators Scott and Booker, and also
Congresswoman Bass.  He wants to give them the space — right? — to work
on this.  They have only been positive about the direction that the
police reform is –bill is going — is headed to.   
  
And so, you know, he wants to continue to work with them but also give
them the space to negotiate.  And so this is a — again, a top priority. 
He wants to see the George Floyd Act be signed into law.  
  
Go ahead, Michael.  
  
Q    Hey, Karine.  Thank you.  Welcome.  I wanted to follow up a little
bit on Phil’s question about what had changed on the COVID — on the
China lab situation and some of the other questions as well.  It seems
to me, despite your response to Phil, that it’s clear that at least two
things have changed.   Right?   
  
One is that: Jen spent much of the last week — in response to these
questions — focusing entirely on international investigations, led by
the WHO, and dismissing the idea raised by a lot of us in the room
about, “Why not have the United States conduct its own investigation?” 
And she continually referred back to the WHO as the proper place for
this.  So it seems like it has — there has been a change.   
  
There also seems like there’s been a change in the President’s view of
the possibility of a lab accident.  I mean, this — the statement seems
to elevate that possibility and give it more credence.  At least, you
know, not saying that it — that it’s certain, but that it at least
deserves — has the credence that deserves a, kind of, full
investigation.   
  
And so, I guess — trying to get at the question some others have asked —
is like: What has changed in those two things?  Why — what was it that
brought the President and this White House to a different place now than
it’s been even just in the recent past few days?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, Michael, I would say to you: This is something
that was ongoing.  Right?  This was — this is something that has been
going on since March.  So this is not a change; this is, you know,
something — like I said — that’s been ongoing.   
  
What has changed is: He wants to give another 90 days to dig a little
deeper, to double down — IC to double down their efforts.  And that is
what he’s asking for.   
  
But, you know — I said this earlier — you know, the WHO doing their
thing and the IC doing what they’re doing currently is not mutually
exclusive.  Right?  This is something that could happen at the same
time.   
  
And so, you know, at the end of the day, we are committed to throwing
everything we have at this pandemic, both domestically and
internationally.  That’s why we’ve been so strong at ensuring that the
WHO gets what it needs for a thorough, independent investigation, and
that’s why we’re also devoting U.S. resources to learn more about it.  
  
Q    Okay.  And I’m just — I won’t — I don’t want to beat the dead
horse, and it’s not fair to ask you to answer for Jen — but, like, then
why was — why was this White House so dismissive of the idea of a — of
an independent — I mean, of a U.S.-led investigation —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — if the President was already interested in that kind of
investigation before that?  That seems to be —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  No, but I — I mean, Michael, I get your question.  You
know, you — you’ve been doing this longer than many of us.  As you know,
we don’t — you — we don’t speak about every — everything that’s being
reviewed, you know, especially if something like this, that was actually
classified.  And it takes time to declassify something so that we can
share with all of you.  So that’s part of it as well, we’re talking
about classified information.  We’re talking about something that the
inte- — intelligence community was working on, that we don’t normally,
every time, put out there.   
  
Thank you, Michael.  
  
Q    Hi, Karine.  Congratulations.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Thank you.  
  
Q    Thanks for being here.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Absolutely.  
  
Q    I have one last little question on this: How confident is the
President that even without Chinese cooperation, that the U.S. can get
to the bottom of this in 90 days?   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, we —  
  
Q    And then I have a question about something else.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  We got to keep — you know, we’re going to keep
working on it.  I mean, this is what he’s asking his intelligence
community to do.  We will review and reassess all of this in 90 days,
once we get that — get that review back from the intelligence
community.  
  
Q    And I have a question about Nord Stream.  Yesterday, the President
basically said there wasn’t anything he could do; it was already
completed by the time he took office.  He said if he went ahead and
imposed sanctions, it would be counterproductive to European relations,
but, you know, he’s been an opponent of that pipeline.   
  
But he did say, “I hope we can work on how they” — the Europeans —
“handle it from this point on.”  How does he want the Europeans to
handle Nord Stream from this point on, since he has decided that there’s
really nothing he can do to stop it?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, I — just to step back for a second, Nord Stream
was like 95 percent done.  Right?  
  
Q    Right, (inaudible).  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So the — before he even stepped in.  And, you know, I
talked earlier about diplomacy; there’s some times you have to do things
in a different way.  Right?  We all have — you know, we have to — we
have these relationships that we are rebuilding as well, especially
after the last couple of years.   
  
And so, this is — this is going to be a process.  And so, like the
President said, we’re going to figure out ways that we can work
together.  And that is something that is incredibly important to this
President.  
  
Q    But what does he want from this point on?  As he said, “I hope we
can work on how they handle it from this point on.”  What is he talking
about?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, I don’t have any specifics to share with you. 
As you can imagine, a lot of these conversation behind — happen behind
closed doors.  But I think he was trying to share his thoughts on this
and where we can — you know, how he really truly wants to figure out a
path forward.   
  
Q Thanks, Karine.  A follow-up on the Olympics question that came up in
the briefing either yesterday or the day before: Today, a major Japanese
newspaper put out an editorial calling for the cancellation of the
Olympics, saying that it is not rational to hold the games this
summer.   
  
So, given Japan’s low vaccination rate, as well as the State Department
bluntly telling Americans, “Do not travel to Japan,” is there any second
guessing on the part of the administration to move forward and concern
about athletes’ safety?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, first, let me just be very clear: The — the
trivel — the travel advisory is a advisory; it’s not a ban.  But, you
know, our positions remains we — has not changed on the Olympics.   
  
You know, we respected the decision to delay the Olympics — the Games —
last summer, and we understand the careful consideration that the
Japanese government and the International Olympic Committee are weighing
as they prepare for the Tokyo Olympics that’s just coming up right
around the corner.   
  
So, the Government of Japan has stressed that the public health remains
the central priority as they plan to host the Games.  Tokyo has assured
us that they will keep in close contact with Washington as they — as
their plans develop.   
  
And the President proudly supports the U.S. athletes who are — who have
trained for these games and will be competing in the best traditions, if
you will, of the Olympic spirit.  And so, America’s Olympic athletes
represent the very best of our determination, diversity, and
teamwork.   
  
Q    And just one other thing: You just mentioned, at the top of the
briefing, factsheets about the economy and housing and things.  The
President is going to be in Cleveland tomorrow talking about the
economy.  What are the — what’s the thrust of his remarks tomorrow?   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  So, tomorrow, during a speech on the economy in
Cleveland, President Biden is going to make a clear case that his
economic plan is working.   
  
He’ll talk about how far we’ve come as a country because of the actions
we’ve taken over the last four months turning the tide on the pandemic,
creating 500,000 new jobs each month on average, cutting unemployment
claims by more than a third, raising wages, and leading the development
world’s recovery.  
  
And he’s going to talk about why now is the right moment to — investing
in building back better for workers in places like Cleveland by making
historic generational investments in foundation of our economy’s
strength through the Jobs Plan and the Families Plan — investments that
will create good-paying union jobs , expand economic opportunities for
all Americans, and help us outcompete the rest of the world in the 21st
century.  So that’s the trip for tomorrow.  
  
Sebastian.  
  
Q    Thank you very much.  And, yes, welcome.  So I’m afraid — with
apologies — it’s not the last COVID question.  Is the White House
satisfied with the cooperation it’s getting from China on this? 
Because, in the past, clearly it hasn’t been.   
  
And if it isn’t, is the President — has he got a message to China that
“I would like more cooperation.”  Are you asking China to step up in
these 90 days?  Or is it okay?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, we’ve been working, you know — speaking closely
with WHO.  Right?  They’re the ones who are — they’re the global, kind
of — the global entity bringing us all together.  And so they’re having
that direct conversation when it comes to the origins of COVID-19.  
  
And we have been pretty clear, you know, China has not been transparent;
they need to do more.  And so, that’s what we’ve been, I think, very
vocal about this — these past several months, and we’ll continue — we’ll
continue to do so.   
  
Q    Thank you.  And another question on the Olympics, as well.  Just to
put the same question a slightly different way: A large majority of the
Japanese, according to the polls, are against it, and it’s pretty
consistent.  You’ve got some prominent businesses against it.  You’ve
got a large part of the medical community against it.  And now you’ve
got this newspaper, which is one of the sponsors of the Olympics,
against it.   
  
Is there a point at which the administration says, “Look, we just don’t
want to basically offend the Japanese people, even if the government is
saying, ‘It’s okay'”?  Or are you just going to follow the government’s
— their government’s guidance and just go along with what they say?   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I mean, it really goes back to what I was saying
earlier — is that, you know, we — we truly respect the decision, you
know, to delay it last year.  And — and the Government of Japan has
stressed that public health remains a central priority.   
  
And so that is the commitment that they made to us and to other — to
other countries where their — they will have athletes attending the
Olympics in just a few weeks.  And so that — that’s — that’s pretty much
where we are.  We just — we — we really truly — you know, we trust what
the Government of Japan has stated to us.   
  
Yamiche.  
  
Q    Thanks.  And congratulations, again.   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Thank you.   
  
Q    A question on the origins of the pandemic: The President says he
has specific questions for China.  I know that a lot of this is
classified information, but can you share anything on what some of those
specific questions are for China?   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  I can’t share the specific questions that are for —  
  
Q    (Inaudible.)  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Because this is the intelligence community.  They’re
doing — you know, they’re doing their deep dive.  I can’t go into
that.   
  
Q    Okay.  Some Republicans — turning to infrastructure — some
Republicans are saying, including Senator Thune — are blaming White
House aides for not getting a deal, saying that, in fact, White House
staff is less interested in getting an infrastructure deal than the
President himself.  How concerned is the President about that?  And has
the President reached out to those senators who are saying this to say,
“No, in fact, my staff and I are on the same page.”   
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Well, this is — this is — all of this — this
negotiation is being led by the President.  If you think about the memo,
the counteroffer that he put out that — last Friday — that was approved
and led by the President.   
  
He’s been in the room in these negotiations.  Again, he has close
personal relationships with a lot of these senators.  This is — as we
know — this is — I’ve mentioned this before — he was in Sen- — in the
Senate for 36 years.  He was the \[Vice\] President for eight years.  He
believes in having bipartisanship.   
  
He has — in those, you know, as a VP and as — as senator, he has reached
across the aisle to get things done, to get big things done.  And so
this is how he sees this moment.  This is an infrastructure — you know,
infrastructure is a bipartisan issue.  This is something that Democrats,
independents, and Republicans truly care about.   
  
We’re talking about investing in our country, investing in people,
investing in roads — right? — investing in bridges.  This is something
that will have a long-lasting effect, something that we haven’t done in
a — in a generation.   
  
So this is something that we believe — he believes, more importantly —
that should have bipartisan support, and that’s what he’s — he’s going
for.  And thus far, you know, we are seeing negotiation happening.   
  
We’re waiting to hear the counteroffer from senators on the other side —
Republican senators.  And so, once we get there — once we get that
counteroffer, we’ll have more to share.  
  
Q    Can I ask you one about COVID and equity?  I know there are, of
course, COVID briefings, but the share of Black people who are making up
the new coronavirus cases in cities like D.C. has risen sharply, and
this is after the vaccine — the vaccines were widely available.  
  
In D.C. now, 80 percent of the new COVID cases are Black people.  How
concerned is the President about that?  And does he see that as a
failure in his responsibility, specifically when it comes to the number
of Black people that we’re seeing now get COVID?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  So, it’s a great question, Yamiche.  You know, earlier this
week, Jen talked about the wartime kind of response that we’ve had to
COVID-19 and the successes. We’ve actually seen some great successes on
getting people vaccinated, but we still have a lot of work to do,
right?   
  
We have — the President made a pledge to have 70 percent of \[adult\]
Americans, by July 4th, have at least one dose in arms; 160 million
Americans fully vaccinated.  And so that means that we have to bring
everyone along.   
  
And as you just iterated, you know, the President puts equity in
everything that we do.  Equity — we have a Equity Task Force.  There’s a
reason why we have it, because we want to make sure we don’t leave
communities behind.   
  
And so one of the things that we’re doing and we’re continuing to do is
we got to meet people where they are.  That’s why now, in many
pharmacies, you can walk in and get your — get that vaccine; it is
free.  It is something that, clearly, we’re working really closely with
states and local governments with on.  We have mobile units in
communities \[that\] do not have access to — close access to CVS or, you
know, maybe don’t even have a — you know, a doctor to go to.  So we have
made it so that we are meeting people where we are.  
  
And one thing that we have learned: The more people who get vaccinated,
the more that the confidence of the vaccine — you see that number going
up.  
  
So, we do have a lot of work to do, but we also have some successes that
we can point to that we can continue to replicate and continue to get
out there and make sure we bring all communities along.  
  
Q    If I could with that — with a quick follow-up.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, absolutely.  
  
Q    You said that the President — and it’s true, of course, the
President has put equity at all — the center of a lot of what he’s done
on the pandemic.  Of course, these numbers, though, say — tell a
different story just in terms of —  
  
Again, here in D.C., 1 in 10 — I should say 8 in 10 people in the new
cases are Black people.  What’s the disconnect there that you think —
what’s failing, what’s broken, what could be happening more to prevent
the numbers from going in the direction that they are?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah.  I mean, look, we — as I said, we still have a
lot of work to do.  That’s very critical and important.  And it’s
alarming — those numbers.  Right?   
  
Because like I said, in order to get back to normal, we have to bring
everyone along.  All communities need to get vaccinated.  And we have to
be able to do that in a way that, like I said, we don’t leave people
behind.  
  
But I think one of the things that we are doing is making sure that we
have those trusted voices on the ground, making sure we have a Community
Corps — more than 6,000 people — where we have people who are in those
local communities that are continuing to have those conversations with
people who have hesitancy; with people who, you know, may not know or
have the full information.  And so, this is what we’re continuing to
do.  
  
And, you know, this is not lost on us.  Right?  Like I said, this is —
those numbers are alarming, and we’re going to continue to do the work. 
It’s not done yet.  We are not done yet.  
  
Q    Thank you.  
  
Q    Thanks, Karine.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Oh.  Oh, thank you.  
  
Q    (Inaudible.)  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Okay, I’ll take this last question.  (Laughter.)  
  
Q    Karine, hi.  Taurean Small with Spectrum News.  Congratulations, by
the way.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Thank you.  
  
Q    I have to start by apologizing because I’m going to ask about the
COVID origins again.  But you said you were confident — the
administration is confident in U.S. investigation into this.  But are
you guys confident in the World Health Organization’s credibility?  This
statement greatly differs from the findings that the organization has
put out.  They said it was extremely unlikely that this came from a lab
leak.  Is the administration at — going to call on the World Health
Organization to call on — call for a new investigation, an independent
investigation?  How confident in the results (inaudible)?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Yeah, I mean, we’ve been very clear on that.  We’ve
been very clear with the WHO to continue to get to the bottom of this,
to get the additional data that we need to figure out where the origin
of COVID is from or came from.  
  
And so this is — this is — like I said, we’ve been vocal.  We’re going
to continue working with WHO.  We joined — rejoined the WHO once — very
early on.  And one of the reasons why we did that is to be able to hold
them accountable as well.  Right?  This is a global institution that
brings everyone together.  And so it’s important that we get — we — it’s
important that they have the information, they get the information so we
know how to move forward.  
  
Q    One quick question on the budget: Progressives in Congress are
calling on the Biden administration to slash funding to the Pentagon’s
budget.  Representative Mark Pocan, specifically, called on the
President to cut about $50 billion from the defense budget because of
the President’s announcement to pull troops out of Afghanistan.  Is this
something that President Biden is considering?  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  So, let me just say that we’ll be announcing and
rolling out the President’s proposed budget this coming Friday, and I’m
not going to get too far ahead of that.  
  
What I will say is the President’s proposed budget will outline how he
is proposing to pay for a range of the plans the President has put
forward.  And he’s clearly talked about and remains committed to his
campaign pledge of pushing for a public option of prescription drugs —
something he talked about in his joint session address — and other —
other items, not just that one.  But every — every entity may not be
reflected in this budget.  
  
But again, I don’t want to get ahead of the President, who will be
putting out his budget on Friday.  
  
Q    Karine, I wanted to follow up on my colleague’s question —  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Thank you, guys.   
  
Q    Thank you.  
  
MS. JEAN-PIERRE:  Thank you, guys.  Thank you, guys.   
  
2:21 P.M. EDT
