---
category: press-briefings
date: '2021-05-21'
modified_time: 2021-05-21 17:17:09-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/05/21/press-briefing-by-white-house-covid-19-response-team-and-public-health-officials-38/
published_time: 2021-05-21 17:17:08-04:00
title: "Press Briefing by White House COVID- \u2060 19 Response Team and Public Health\
  \ Officials"
---
 
Via Teleconference 

11:03 A.M. EDT  
  
ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Good morning.  Today, Dr. Walensky will
provide an update on the state of the pandemic, Dr. Fauci will provide
an update on the latest science, and Dr. Murthy will provide an update
on our efforts to build vaccine confidence.   
  
Here’s how I want to start though: I want to discuss what some
businesses who cater to young people are doing to assist with the
vaccination efforts.  
  
Scores of businesses and organizations have responded to the President’s
call to action to volunteer their services and help the American people
to get vaccinated.   
  
Over the next few weeks, we’ll be highlighting a number of outside
initiatives to provide incentives for people to get vaccinated.  We
believe that it’s particularly important to reach young people where
they are in the effort to get them vaccinated.   
  
We do know that in addition to schooling, financial loss, stress levels,
the pandemic has also had a negative impact on young people’s social
lives.   
  
Social distancing and dating were always a bit of a challenging
combination.  So today, dating sites like Bumble, Tinder, Hinge, Match,
OkCupid, BLK, Chispa, Plenty of Fish, and Badoo are announcing a series
of features to encourage vaccinations and help people with that univer-
— help people meet people who have that universally attractive quality:
They’ve been vaccinated against COVID-19.  
  
These sites cater to over 50 million people in the U.S. and are some of
the world’s biggest nongaming apps.  
  
Here’s one for you: According to one of the sites, OKCupid, the people
who display their vaccination status are 14 percent more likely to get a
match.  We have finally found the one thing that makes us all more
attractive: a vaccination.  
  
These dating apps will now allow vaccinated people to display badges
which show their vaccination status, filter specifically to see only
people who are vaccinated, and offer premium content — details of which
I cannot get into, but apparently, they include things like boosts and
super swipes.  The apps will also help people locate places to get
vaccinated.  
  
Alright, got through that.   
  
Today also happens to be our “Digital Day of Action.”  The White House
and others, including Michelle Obama, will be highlighting the
Vaccines.gov website and 438829 text line throughout the day.  
  
Now it’s been four months since President Biden’s first full day of
office.  Things are substantially better than they were four months ago
when we were losing thousands of Americans each day and people were
waiting weeks or more to get vaccinated, usually not even knowing where
or when it would happen.  
  
Today, more than 125 million Americans are fully vaccinated.  Those
Americans who have been vaccinated are at much lower risk and have more
of their lives back.  They’re able to do most things mask free and with
less reason to socially distance.  Tens of millions more, adding up to
more than 60 percent of the adult population, are at least partially
vaccinated.   
  
The impact has been everything we could have hoped for, given the power
of vaccines.  Across the country, cases of COVID-19, serious illness,
and loss of life are all down dramatically from when we arrived.  And
they can be brought down even further, and the risk of a future wave in
your community significantly reduced, if we keep up the pace of
vaccinations.  
  
Many Americans have still not gotten vaccinated — most of them younger,
many of them not opposed to vaccination; they simply haven’t prioritized
it.  It has never been easier.   
  
Starting Monday, when you text to 438829, not only will you instantly
see where vaccines near you are available, you will also be offered a
free ride there and back, more employers are offering paid time off to
get vaccinated, and, as we discussed today, there are clear benefits to
your social life.   
  
Most importantly, you’ll be protected from a virus which is still racing
around the world.  
  
I will now hand it over to Dr. Walensky.  
  
DR. WALENSKY:  Thank you.  Good morning.  I’m pleased to be back with
you today.  Let’s begin with an overview of the data.   
  
Yesterday, CDC reported a little over 27,850 new cases of COVID-19.  Our
seven-day average is about 27,700 cases per day.  This represents yet
another decrease of more than 19 percent from the prior seven-day
average and also marks the second day in a row where our seven-day
average is less than 30,000 cases per day.  The last time the seven-day
average of cases per day was this low was June 18th, 2020.   
  
The seven-day average of hospital admissions is slightly over 3,400, a
decrease of almost 15 percent from the previous seven-day period and
another positive trend.  
  
And the seven-day average of daily deaths has also declined to a new low
of 498 per day.  
  
At the start of each briefing over the past few weeks, I’ve shared with
you a snapshot of the data and, more recently, the encouraging decreases
in cases, hospitalizations, and deaths.  As each week passes and as we
continue to see progress, these data give me hope.   
  
I also know that these snapshots are hard to put into the context after
16 months of reviewing them.  In isolation, each data point does not
tell the full story of what we are seeing across the country.   
  
Today, I’d like to give you a bit of a deeper dive into the data and to
share with you ways you can understand the progress your community is
making.  
  
Each day, CDC, in collaboration with partners across the government,
releases a Community Profile Report, and updates our county-level data
on COVID Data Tracker.   
  
When we look at COVID case incidents at county level, we see major
decreases.  As I mentioned at the start of my remarks, we have seen a 20
percent decrease in the seven-day average of cases across the country,
and we have seen some counties across the country have had an even
greater decrease, including decreases of 25 percent in more — or more in
just the past week.   
  
Each week, we also see a release of an assessment of county-level
transmission risk, taking into account rate — COVID rates and COVID-19
test characteristics.  And we have used this transmission risk for many
of our CDC guidance materials — for example, our school guidance.   
  
Importantly, over the past month, there has been a steady decline in the
number of counties in the United States with a high risk of community
transmission.  And more and more counties are moving to low or moderate
transmission categories.   
  
We now have 307 counties, or 10 percent of the entire U.S., in which we
would characterize having low transmission.  And there are 1,183
counties, or 37 percent of all U.S. counties, in the moderate
transmission category, which we define as less than 50 cases per 100,000
in the last seven days.   
  
Now, if you look at this new slide up, I want to show you two maps of
our country: one from January and one from this week.  
  
CDC uses data on cases and county transmission to help us understand
areas across the country where we may have concern for emerging or
sustained outbreaks and where things have markedly improved, and also to
understand the burden of infection at the local level, because we
recognize that these decisions have to be made locally.   
  
When we look across the country, our areas of high or moderate burden —
indicated by red and pink respectively — are shrinking.  And areas with
low burden of disease — indicated by light green — are markedly
increasing.  Many of the areas where previous high and moderate burden
are now resolving and are highlighted on blue in this map.   
  
The map on the right demonstrates our national landscape that things are
improving.  And we are seeing this week after week and with more and
more green over time.   
  
These data are telling us a story: As more and more people roll up their
sleeves and get vaccinated, the number of cases and the level of
community risk is decreasing.   
  
I want to thank everyone who has done their part to bring us where we
are today, with more than 60 percent of Americans 18 and older having
received at least one dose and being on their way to full vaccination,
and 126.6 million Americans who are fully vaccinated.   
  
The progress in these data are so encouraging to me and, I hope,
encouraging to you.   
  
And I know our work here is not done.  We still have many more people to
get vaccinated.  I encourage everyone who is not yet fully vaccinated to
visit Vaccine.gov and find a location to get your first or second
shot.   
  
Thank you.  I’ll now turn things over to Dr. Fauci.  
  
DR. FAUCI:  Thank you very much, Dr. Walensky.  I’d like to spend the
next couple of minutes just underscoring and emphasizing the reasons why
Dr. Walensky was able to show you such promising data, and that is the
real-world effectiveness of the COVID-19 vaccine.  And bringing you up
to date on some of the data that confirms the things that we’ve been
telling you over the last several press briefings.   
  
Next slide.   
  
This is an MMWR from the CDC, which is looking both at the
Pfizer-BioNTech and the Moderna vaccine among healthcare personnel at 33
sites in the United States.   
  
Again, if you look at the effectiveness in the real-world setting —
again, right at the point that we saw with the clinical trials — usually
real-world settings have less of an efficacy than in the trials, as I’ve
mentioned many times.  Not so here — 94 percent against symptomatic
disease.   
  
Next slide.   
  
If you look at a very interesting study that came out two days ago in
the New England Journal of Medicine looking at the incidence of
SARS-CoV-2 infection in nursing home residents in those who are either
vaccinated or unvaccinated, we see a very interesting phenomenon.  
  
Among the 13,000 residents who were vaccinated who received two doses,
there was a 1 percent infection within 0 to 14 days of the second dose,
and practically no infections — namely, 0.3 percent — after 14 days.   
  
Note that 80 percent of the cases were asymptomatic among vaccinated
individuals — something that we have seen in other situations.   
  
Next slide.   
  
On the other side of the coin are those in the same study who are
unvaccinated.  If you look at the infection rate of those individuals
within 0 to 14 days after the first clinic, they were 4.3 percent
compared to the very small 1 percent in the previous slide, and they’re
0.3 percent if you waited more than 42 days.  This is a reflection of
what is likely a mini version, within the nursing home setting, of herd
immunity.   
  
Next slide.   
  
And then another multi-state Mayo Clinic Health System study where you
look at adenovirus vector, namely the J&J.  I’ve been speaking to you up
to now about the mRNAs.  So, after at least two weeks of follow-up, the
vaccine effectiveness, again, was even greater in the United States here
than we originally reported, with the 72 percent.   
  
Next slide.   
  
Again, more data.  This was a J&J paper that I showed to this group a
few weeks ago, looking at the safety and the efficacy of the single-dose
Ad26.  As you can see, the efficacy was 74 percent in the United
States.  
  
But now take a look at this a little bit more closely.   
  
Next slide.   
  
If you look at the hospitalizations and compare the placebo, in red,
with the J&J, in blue, 14 days postvaccination, you see there’s 93
percent vaccine efficacy.  But if you wait at least 28 days
postvaccination, it’s 100 percent with regard to hospitalizations.   
  
Next slide.   
  
And then when you look at deaths, there were no COVID-19 related deaths
in the vaccine group, and five COVID-related deaths in the placebo
group.   
  
And on the final slide, what does this tell us?  That vaccines protect
you.  They protect your family.  And they interrupt the chain of
transmission of the virus.   
  
So, the bottom line, as we’re all saying: Get vaccinated.  
  
Passing it over to you, Dr. Murthy.  
  
DR. MURTHY:  Well, thank you so much, Dr. Fauci.  And it’s good to be
with all of you again this morning.  I’d like, today, to share some
numbers with you concerning people who are vaccinated and
unvaccinated.   
  
The recent data from the CDC, involving a survey of over 14,000 people,
showed that more than 70 percent of Americans are vaccinated, planning
to get vaccinated, or likely to vaccinated.  
  
And while a portion of the unvaccinated population do have questions
about the vaccine, and while we are going to continue to mobilize
trusted messengers through our COVID-19 Community Corps to help answer
these questions, the truth is that, overall, vaccine confidence in the
country remains high.  That is good news.  
  
The data continues to point, though, to access barriers being an
important additional concern among people who are unvaccinated.  There’s
a recent Kaiser Family Foundation survey which looked at pe- — those who
are unvaccinated, but who wanted to get vaccinated as soon as
possible.   
  
What it found was that more than a third of people in this group said
that they have not gotten vaccinated because they didn’t have enough
time due to work hours or other schedule conflicts or because they just
hadn’t gotten around to it.  About 7 percent of people said that they
didn’t have information about how to get vaccinated.  Eight percent said
they weren’t sure if they were eligible or had the right
documentation.  
  
These numbers may seem small, but they actually represent millions of
people, and they are crucial to reach with vaccines if you want cases to
come down and stay down.  
  
Now, when we look at another part of the unvaccinated population — those
who do not want to get vaccinated as soon as possible — it turns out
here, too, access is an issue.  Among those who are employed, 28 percent
say that they would be more likely to get vaccinated if they receive
time off to receive and recover from the vaccine.  Another 20 percent
say they would be more likely if their shot was administered in their
workplace.  
  
So, employers not only have an opportunity to increase vaccination
rates, but if you look at one more piece of data, it turns out that they
can also help to close the equity gap in vaccinations.  This is so
important because we’ve said from the beginning that success is not just
determined by how many people we get vaccinated, but by how equitably
and fairly we vaccinate our population.  And workplaces, it turns out,
can play a role in that.   
  
Because among the unvaccinated, 64 percent of Hispanic adults and 55
percent of Black adults have concerns about missing work to recover from
vaccinations compared to 41 percent of white adults.   
  
And that’s why the recently announced tax credits for businesses and
nonprofit organizations with fewer than 500 employees are so important —
because they provide financial support for businesses providing time off
for employees to actually get the vaccine and recover from temporary
side effects.  We want people to know about this.  We want businesses to
take advantage of it.  
  
This next phase of the vaccination campaign was — will be driven, more
than anything, by the people and organizations and communities who help
to vaccinate their families, their friends, and others in their
neighborhoods.  It’s why we’ve been saying that addressing access,
motivation, and vaccine confidence requires an all-hands-on-deck
approach.   
  
But, thankfully, people all across America are stepping up to meet this
moment.  Businesses like Joe’s Kansas City Bar-B-Que are giving workers
time off if they get vaccinated, and The Feeding Zoo is administering
vaccines on site to visitors, volunteers, and employees.  Young
Invincibles — a young adult advocacy group and a member of our COVID-19
Community Corps — recently launched “Don’t miss out, LA,” a campaign
that trains young people to spread the word about the vaccine on all
fronts: peer-to-peer texting, phone banking, social media, QR code
stickers placed in popular LA spots, and, of course, the good
old-fashioned, in-person conversation.  
  
And ParentsTogether — another one of our COVID-19 Community Corps
members, which is a parent-led and parent-powered organization which
provides trusted information to families — they have engaged hundreds of
thousands of patients — of parents online about their questions about
vaccines, any concerns they may have, and stories about their
vaccinations.  
  
So, today, we are asking everyone to help spread the word about getting
vaccinated as part of our “Digital Day of Action.”   And we are
encouraging communities to visit Vaccine.gov; to text their ZIP Code to
438829, which spells get “GETVAX,” or to 882862, which spells “VACUNA,”
and you can find available vaccines near you.  
  
So please reach out to your family and friends.  Please share this with
the members of your organization, whether it’s your employees or your
volunteers.  Remind people the vaccine is free of charge.  It’s now
easier to get than ever before.  And remind people also that the vaccine
remains our single-best pathway out of the COVID-19 pandemic.  
  
Thank you so much, and I’ll turn it back to Andy.  
  
ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Thank you, Dr. Murthy.  
  
Okay, we’ll take some questions.  
  
MODERATOR:  Thanks, Andy, and happy Friday.  Let’s go to Victoria Knight
at Kaiser.  
  
Q    Hey, thanks for taking my question.  My question is for Dr.
Walensky.  Will the CDC be updating their dashboard daily with
state-by-state race and ethnicity data?  And also, what is the CDC
planning to do about the high percentage of missing data on race and
ethnicity, which is close to about 40 percent?  
  
DR. WALENSKY:  Thank you for that question, Victoria.  We have been
updating our website.  I can’t say that it’s daily; I believe that it’s
weekly.  And we actually have a new — new feature, just in the last
week, looking at how we are doing for vaccine distribution in a two-week
rolling basis.   
  
We are working actively with states’ public health and localities to try
and get more access to race and ethnicity data and have actually made
some progress in that regard, and we’re continuing to do so.  
  
ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Next question.  
  
MODERATOR:  Steve Portnoy, CBS.  
  
Q    Hi, thanks for taking my question.  All of the data that the
doctors have laid out this morning is extremely encouraging, but some
people saw the crowd of close to 70 — presumably, fully vaccinated —
people in the East Room at the White House yesterday.  And some said on
social media that the sight made them nervous.   
  
So, to the doctors, what do you say to those people who may have spent
the last 15 months following your advice to strictly avoid crowds, who
might not be psychologically ready to do what you now know to be safe if
they’ve been vaccinated?  Dr. Fauci, are these lingering fears
irrational?  And to Dr. Walensky, what does it say about the response to
the CDC’s communications over the last week if people do continue to
have that fear?  
  
ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Dr. Fauci, do you want to begin?  
  
DR. FAUCI:  Well, I would say that fears like that are not irrational. 
I mean — I mean, people — it’s understandable when you’re used to a
certain type of behavior, and then, when the science says that you can
actually turn around, that — as we’ve said with the recent CDC
guidelines that say we can feel comfortable; that if you’re fully
vaccinated, that you are safe from being infected, be it outdoors or
indoors — you can understand that when people have been following a
certain trend for a considerable period of time, that it may take time
for them to adjust.  So I would not say that that’s irrational; I’d say
that’s understandable.  
  
ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Dr. Walensky?  
  
DR. WALENSKY:   And I would — thank you.  I would echo much of what Dr.
Fauci had said.  You know, when we released our guidelines and the — and
the science said it was safe to do so, we also acknowledge that not
everybody is going to feel like it’s time to rip off their masks.  For
16 months, we’ve been saying that it’s important to wear these masks to
protect yourselves.  And now, what we’re saying is — it’s going to be
hard to get back to, you know, life as we knew it without these masks,
and we’re going to do so tipping our — dipping our toe in the water and
having everybody move at their own pace.  
  
We specifically have acknowledged that if you are vaccinated, there is
no shame, no problem in continuing to wear your mask.  And just like it
has been hard to have everybody get masked, I think this is going to
take some time for us all to get used to.  
  
ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Great.  Next question.  
  
MODERATOR:  Peter Sullivan, The Hill.  
  
Q    Hi, thanks.  I wanted to ask about the vaccine lottery incentive
programs some states have been doing.  Ohio, New York, and Maryland all
have, you know, lotteries or prize money you can be entered in if you
vaccinate.  I wonder if you, kind of, think that’s a good idea.  And
have you been talking to states about that?  Are you going to encourage
more states to have these kind of lottery incentives?  
  
ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Well, from the data we’ve seen, they
appear to be working.  And I think the reason they work is because the
vast number of people who are not yet vaccinated are actually not
opposed to getting vaccinated; they’re just not prioritizing it very
high.  There are other things going on in their lives.  
  
And so things that draw attention to it, like the lotteries in those
states you mentioned, are — not surprisingly — very effective, and so
we’re enthusiastic.  
  
Next question.  
  
MODERATOR:  Jeremy Diamond, CNN.  
  
Q    Hey, thanks for taking the question.  I’m wondering: How do you all
anticipate that declining deaths and cases will affect people’s decision
to get vaccinated, especially for those who are still on the fence?  And
then, secondly, I’m wondering if you guys have an update on the doses
that you plan to send abroad, what the timing for that is, and if you’ve
settled on a process for deciding which countries will get doses and how
many.  Thanks.  
  
ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  So why don’t we start with the first
question, which is the impact of — the improving outlook of the pandemic
on people’s willingness and interest in getting vaccinated.  
  
Dr. Murthy, do you want to start with that?  
  
DR. MURTHY:  Sure.  Thanks, Andy.  And, Jeremy, I appreciate the
question.  I think it’s a good one.   
  
Look, it can be easy to look at the circumstances right now with all of
the improvements Dr. Walensky laid out — cases, hospitalizations, deaths
— and think, “We’re out of this pandemic.  We don’t have to get
vaccinated or take precautions anymore.”  But that would not be the
right lesson to take.   
  
The right message, we believe, is that we are seeing improvements
because people have in fact gotten vaccinated.  And if we continue on
this path — get more people vaccinated — we can sustain that decline in
cases that we’ve seen in the decline of deaths and hospitalizations. 
But if we stop where we are right now — if people do not get fully
vaccinated; the millions who are out there who still need to — then we
will still be at risk, potentially, for more infections in the future.  
  
And we want to protect everybody in our country from this virus, so
that’s why we will continue to emphasize that we should keep moving
forward with vaccinations.  Do not let your guard down.   But be —  be
encouraged and cautiously optimistic that we are absolutely heading in
the right direction.  We just can’t — you know, we can’t take our foot
off the accelerator.  
  
ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Yeah. There’s good evidence — if people
don’t feel at risk of dying of the measles, yet they still get their
vaccination.  So, I think we just have a much more continued education
with the public to do, and many, many more people will get
vaccinated.   
  
Jeremy, your other question, which I think you ask frequently, is about
the status of doses to other countries.  To confirm that, we have
committed that before the Fourth of July — and we are waiting on FDA
approval — 80 million doses of — which is 13 percent of all of the doses
that have been procured in the U.S. — are going to be sent overseas. 
That’s in addition to the $4 billion commitment that we’ve led with
COVAX.   
  
And — so, we are — we don’t have a status yet on either the FDA approval
of the AstraZeneca doses, and nor do we have news to report today about
where those doses are going.   
  
But I will reiterate something the President said, which is that those
decisions are being made on two factors: science and public health, and
equity — and no other factors.  
  
Next question.  
  
MODERATOR:  Maureen Groppe, USA Today.  
  
Q    Hi, can you talk a little bit about how the dating app initiative
came about, and also whether this is a first for the White House to get
involved in dating sites?  
  
ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  I suppose I have to take that question,
huh?  
  
DR. MURTHY:  (Laughs.)  Well, all you, Andy.  
  
ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Thanks, everybody.  (Laughter.)  You
know, as we were talking about earlier, in all seriousness, people are
interested in other things in life besides their vaccine.  But the
vaccine enables people to get back to the things that they enjoy in
life.   
  
And, you know, Dr. Murthy has written extensively, in all seriousness,
about the concept of loneliness and about social contact and so forth. 
And so, while it is, kind of, a funny thing to talk about, the truth of
the matter is people do want to get back to their normal lives, they do
have questions about making sure that they can do that safely, and
that’s great.  So, we are — we’re obviously pleased with that.  And the
fact that this reaches that — those many people.   
  
You know, I think — I applaud the initiative on these companies’ parts. 
I think it’s their effort.  And, you know, we — and we have
conversations with them, but this is things that they were — that
they’re — that they were doing because they saw a need in their audience
base.  So, I think that’s — I think that’s the gist of it.  
  
Next question.  
  
MODERATOR:  Tommy Christopher.  
  
Q    Sorry, I — I have trouble with this unmute button.  
  
Okay, well, thanks for doing this.  And, you know, I — I have a
question, and I kind of hate to bring this up, but I really have — feel
like I have to.   
  
I don’t know if you guys saw this viral video from Ricky Schroder
earlier in the week, yelling at some poor guy at Costco.  But I also — I
live in New Jersey, another state that hasn’t dropped the mask
mandates.  And, you know, it’s been bad all along, but it has gotten
even worse since the new vaccination — the guidelines for vaccinated
people.   
  
You know, people come down here on the weekends and in the summertime,
and they scream at our restaurant workers because they have to wear a
mask to go from the door to their table.  And, you know, I just — I’m
wondering what you guys have to say about all that.  
  
And, I mean, I know Governor Phil Murphy says that, you know, it’s not
fair to ask a frontline worker to decide whether or not someone
presenting themselves at a business is vaccinated or not.  And so, I
mean, what do you think about all that?  
  
I mean, there’s — a friend of mine told me that a customer threatened to
get her fired because she asked him to wear a mask.   
  
ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Thanks for the question.  Look, the last
year and a half has been one of the most intense periods in our lives. 
People are feeling a lot of stress.  And they’re feeling, as Dr. Fauci
said earlier, very, you know, normal feelings adjusting.  Let’s just
treat each other with respect.   
  
Next question.   
  
MODERATOR:  Last question, let’s go to Meg Tirrell at CNBC.  
  
Q    Thanks.  I was intrigued by what Dr. Murthy said about how
employers could play a bigger role in helping people get vaccinated.   
  
What would you like to see in terms of them offering on-site vaccination
clinics?  And what do you see as the barriers for employers to be able
to do that?  
  
And if I can add just a second question for Dr. Fauci or Dr Walensky. 
You know, there’s been a lot of focus on immunocompromised folks and the
fact that vaccines may not provide the same protection for them.  Do you
see monoclonal antibodies potentially being used for those folks
preventively?  Is that a potential good option for people who don’t get
so much protection from the vaccines?  
  
ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Let me — let me start because I do have —
we’ve been tracking very closely here how employers — and hi, Meg,
thanks for the question — how employers are, in fact, creating near-site
and on-site clinics.  They’re creating — they’re either doing this on
their own, through the states, or they’re creating partnerships with
some of the pharmaceutical companies, and — I’m sorry, not
pharmaceutical companies — pharmacies who are — who are capable of
providing that capability.   
  
We have begun a process which we might talk about at some point where we
are helping to match up employers who have lots of employees on their
sites with people who provide those services, and we think it’s fairly
commonplace.  
  
I’m not sure we have any data on this, but — but it’s a great thing for
an employer to do and if you’re an employer out there, I would strongly
encourage you to do this, as well as giving your employees time off.  
  
Dr. Murthy, did you have anything you wanted to add about that before I
turn to Dr. Fauci?  
  
DR. MURTHY:  Sure.  Well, thanks Andy.  And, Meg, thanks for the
question.  I would just say, look, we really think employers can play a
powerful role here.  The goal here is to bring vaccines closer to where
people are.   
  
Workplaces are obviously a place where people spend a lot of time.  And
workplaces can help in three ways: by helping build vaccine confidence
by sharing information, by motivating people to get vaccines both by
encouraging them and also enabling other people to share their
vaccination story, and also by improving access.  These are three
concrete ways.  
  
The barriers, though, that we often see is: Number one, employers may
not always know that — about just how important a role they can play and
what they can do.  They may wonder about logistically how to arrange it
— whether it’s a partnership with the pharmacy — or what materials to
share.  And they also may wonder if it’s actually working.  
  
And this is one of the reasons why not only we set up the tax credit
program and other, you know — other tools, but we built the COVID-19
Community Corps to provide a community where people can share best
practices, support one another, and take these sort of innovative
measures and steps that will help bring vaccines closer to where people
are.   
  
ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Dr. Fauci, I believe the second question
Meg asked was about the use of monoclonals as prophylactics.   
  
DR. FAUCI:  Yeah, well, certainly it is an issue that we are concerned
about is people who are immunosuppressed, particularly profoundly
immunosuppressed — such as some of the solid organ transplant patients,
but also others who might have autoimmune diseases who are receiving a
variety of immunosuppressive agents.   
  
We are doing a major study here at NIAID on just those individuals to
determine what the best approach is — whether an additional boost.  
  
The idea of monoclonal antibodies is a reasonable idea.  It has not been
studied in that context where you give people monoclonal antibody
because, again, given the half-life of these antibodies, you would have
to give them over a period of time — whether or not it would be feasible
to have people who in fact don’t have a good immune response to be given
monoclonal antibody every several months.  But it’s certainly something
worth addressing and worth studying.   
  
One of the other ways of approaching it, which is in the arena of
therapy, is to try and get some therapies, particularly direct-acting
antiviral agents, so that when people who are in that category of
immunosuppressed actually do get infected, you can treat them
immediately so that they don’t progress.  Or even — the way we’ve done
with HIV — to give, actually, prophylactics.  
  
So there are a lot of different options, Meg, that are being pursued
because we do really feel that this is a substantial problem that we
need to address.   
  
ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  And maybe in an upcoming session, we’ll
highlight the status of the trials of the antivirals at the right
time.   
  
Anyway, thank you all.  Have a very happy Friday and a great weekend.  
  
11:37 A.M. EDT

To view the COVID Press Briefing slides,
visit <https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/05/COVID-Press-Briefing_21May2021-for-transcript.pdf>
