---
tags: press-briefings
date: '2021-05-12'
modified_time: 2021-05-12 19:15:26-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/05/12/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-jen-psaki-secretary-of-transportation-pete-buttigieg-and-administrator-of-the-u-s-environmental-protection-agency-michael-regan-may-12-2021/
published_time: 2021-05-12 18:00:00-04:00
title: "Press Briefing by Press Secretary Jen\_Psaki, Secretary of Transportation\
  \ Pete Buttigieg, and Administrator of the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency\
  \ Michael Regan, May 12,\_2021"
---
 
12:12 P.M. EDT  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Hi, everyone.  We have two more special guests for all of
you today.   
  
Secretary Buttigieg has, of course, been here before, so we’re not going
to give him a lengthy introduction.  But Administer — Administrator
Regan previously served as the Secretary of North Carolina Department of
Environmental Quality.  There, he spearheaded the development and
implementation of North Carolina’s seminal plan to address climate
change and transition the state to a clean energy economy.  And he
secured the largest coal ash cleanup in United States history. 
Administrator Regan began his career at the Environmental Protection
Agency, and is the first African American man and second person of color
to lead it.  
  
I will also just note, before we go to them, Secretary Granholm,
Secretary Buttigieg, and Secretary Mayorkas will brief the full House
and Senate this evening as well.  
  
They’ll take a few questions, but I will turn it over first to Secretary
Buttigieg.  
  
SECRETARY BUTTIGIEG:  Thank you, Jen.  Good afternoon.  
Let me start just by saying that we know that the cyberattack on the
Colonial Pipeline is affecting fuel supply for some Americans.  And
throughout the administration, we have been working around the clock to
help Colonial return its pipeline back to normal operations quickly,
safely, and securely.   
  
The President has directed us to bring all government resources to bear
to help Colonial to resolve this.  And we’re working to assess the
impact of the temporary pipeline shutdown on our national fuel supply,
while also working to help alleviate any potential shortages when and
where they occur.   
  
I can tell you that I’ve been on the phone multiple times a day with the
White House, with fellow Cabinet Secretaries, and other leaders,
including Administrator Regan.  We’ll be doing everything that we can to
reduce the impact that some Americans could see at local gas stations in
some areas until the pipeline is brought back online.  
  
Colonial has announced that they’re working toward full restoration by
the end of this week, but we are not taking any chances.  We are doing
everything that we can, in the interim, to make it easier to move fuel
to the places that need it.  
  
Since Friday, our interagency response group has been examinating
\[sic\] all contingencies, coordinating with Colonial, and working
closely across the interagency to help alleviate any potential supply
disruptions.   
  
For our part in Transportation, the Department has been working across
our different modes of transportation to help make sure that fuel can
get to the communities that need it as safely and as efficiently as
possible.  Our Maritime Administration — or “MARAD” — has completed a
survey of the availability of vessels that are qualified to carry
petroleum under the Jones Act in the Gulf and up the Eastern Seaboard.  
  
The Department of Homeland Security is standing ready to review any
requests for a temporary waiver of the Jones Act from companies that
demonstrate that there’s not sufficient capacity on Jones-Act-qualified
vessels to carry specific shipments of fuel in and around the region.  
  
Our Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration issued an
hours-of-service waiver, which provides greater flexibility to drivers
transporting gasoline, diesel, jet fuel, and other refined petroleum
products to 18 states.  
  
On Monday and Tuesday and into today, several states have issued
emergency declarations that allow truckers to carry additional weight on
state roads.  
  
Now, the White House and DOT have determined that 10 states can use
existing federal major disaster declarations that are currently in place
to allow those states to issue permits that allow drivers to temporarily
carry additional gasoline that would ordinarily exceed existing weight
limits on federal highways in their state.   
  
Each state has to follow its own procedures to issue these permits, but
this decision — determination provides them with the added flexibility
to move fuel more efficiently if they need to.  
  
PHMSA, our Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration, is
temporarily relaxing enforcement of certain pipeline operator
qualification rules to make sure that emergency personnel can manually
get — help to get the pipeline back up and running as needed, and are in
frequent touch, again, with the pipeline operators about safety.   
  
In addition to these steps, we are continuing to monitor the situation
as it develops so that we can help anywhere that we can.  
  
For our Department, our mandate and our mission revolves around safety. 
And so we are working hard to maintain safety, while also providing
much-needed temporary flexibility to minimize disruptions to the
American people.   
  
And DOT is in regular contact with state and local governments, and with
members of Congress, as well as with retailers and other companies in
the sectors that are impacted.  And, of course, we’re in constant
contact with our partners across the federal government to coordinate
the response.   
  
So, together, we are working to assess the impact of the shutdown, offer
emergency assistance, and, of course, help Colonial return to normal
operations.  
  
Our top priority right now is getting the fuel to communities that need
it, and we will continue doing everything that we can to meet that goal
in the coming days, and we’ll continue to keep everyone apprised.  
  
Importantly, this incident also reminds us that infrastructure is a
national security issue.  And the reality is that investing in
world-class, modern, and resilient infrastructure has always been
central to ensuring our country’s economic security, our national
security, and it was — as we’re seeing right now, that includes
cybersecurity.  
  
Thank you all.  I’ll turn it over to Administrator Regan.  
  
ADMINISTRATOR REGAN:  Thank you, Secretary Buttigieg.  Jen, it’s good to
be here with you today.  
  
You know, as Secretary Buttigieg mentioned, the President has directed a
government-wide response to the Colonial Pipeline shutdown.  And at EPA,
we’re doing our part to mitigate the impacts that people and communities
might be experiencing.  
  
The Clean Air Act allows EPA, in consultation with the Department of
Energy, to waive certain fuel requirements to address shortages.  After
careful evaluation, EPA and DOE concluded that extreme and unusual fuel
supply circumstances exist and that granting short-term waivers is
consistent with the public interest.  
  
EPA issued an initial waiver on Tuesday morning and later issued a
second, more expansive waiver that covers 12 states and the District of
Columbia.  EPA waived certain gasoline requirements, specifically the
requirement for low-volatility conventional gasoline, as well as
reformulated gasoline.  
  
While the waiver alone will not resolve the supply situation, it will
help alleviate supply shortages.  The waiver allows the use of any
residential winter gasoline that may exist in the region.  It will also
allow butane to be blended into existing fuel stops, increasing the
supply of gasoline by up to 5 percent.  
  
EPA granted the waivers to help mitigate the supply shortages of
gasoline in the affected areas until normal supply to the region can be
restored.  EPA followed an orderly process when assessing and issuing
the fuel waiver.  Any such waiver is limited in both geographic scope
and in the duration to mitigate any potential impacts to air quality. 
At this time, we do not anticipate air quality problems from these
limited waivers.   
  
In assessing the situation and issuing the waivers, EPA has been in
close coordination and communication with all of the impacted states. 
Our partnerships with the states is key to being able to effectively
respond to the developing situation like this one.   
  
Going forward, we will keep coordinating with our state col- — state
colleagues to assess the situation on the ground and to determine
whether we can provide any future flexibilities to alleviate impacts for
people and communities in these affected areas.   
  
We understand that there are shortages resulting from the Colonial
Pipeline shutdown that cause stress and confusion in people’s lives. 
Our response underscores the importance of President Biden’s
all-of-government directive, which asked federal agencies to harness our
collective expertise and work in sync when urgent matters arise.  This
interagency effort is the linchpin to a swift and coordinated
response.  
  
And with that, I’ll turn it over to Jen.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you so much.  One question for Mr. Regan, one question for
Mr. Buttigieg.  Many of your fellow North Carolinians cannot find
gasoline right now.  What’s your advice to them about what they should
do and what they shouldn’t do until this situation is resolved?  
  
ADMINISTRATOR REGAN:  Yes.  We are in very close coordination with my
home state, just like the other 12 states.  
  
I think the folks should follow the advice of the governors and the
attorney generals, which — they’re asking folks not to panic, not to
hoard gasoline, and to watch for the updates that are coming from the
federal government.  We have some really good coordinated efforts at the
federal, state, and local levels, and we’re working very hard to
alleviate these circumstances.  
  
Q    And then, Secretary Buttigieg, you mentioned that this situation
shows the importance of world-class infrastructure.  What could have
been done or what should be done to prevent something like this from
happening?  
  
SECRETARY BUTTIGIEG:  Well, this is part of what we have in mind when we
talk about resilience.  We need to make sure our infrastructure is
resilient to climate security issues caused by the increased frequency
and severity of weather events.  But we also need to be sure that we are
resilient in the face of cyber threats, and certainly in the kinds of
things that the American Jobs Plan will be funding and supporting.   
  
I think part of the expectation for local authorities or states or other
bodies seeking to get funding is that there be robust cybersecurity
resilience and planning written into that.  This is not an extra.  This
is not a luxury.  This is not an option.  This has to be core to how we
secure our critical infrastructure and that includes infrastructure that
is not owned and operated by the federal government.  We’re being
reminded that private companies, and often local authorities, own and
operate so many of the critically important utilities and other
infrastructure we count on.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Peter.  
  
Q    Secretary Buttigieg, does the fact that this run — one ransomware
attack could take down roughly 45 percent of the East Coast’s fuel
supply mean that we should be building additional pipelines going
forward?  
  
SECRETARY BUTTIGIEG:  Well, in this case, this was an issue about how a
cyberattack impacted a pipeline that’s there.  I’m not sure it really
speaks to the number or quantity of pipelines or their throughput.  
  
I do think it reminds us that we need to make sure that we have the most
resilient and flexible infrastructure for the future, especially when it
comes to something like energy.  We’ve now had, you could argue, two
major wake-up call experiences — one in Texas, and now one here — each
with a different cause, but both reminding us about the work that we
have to do as a country.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Jeff.   
  
Q    Mr. Secretary, Secretary Granholm, yesterday, said that she
expected this issue to be resolved by the end of the week, more or
less.  Is that still your expectation?  And —  
  
SECRETARY BUTTIGIEG:  So —  
  
Q    Go ahead.  
  
SECRETARY BUTTIGIEG:  I’ll defer to announcements from the company on
their process.  Again, PHMSA is in touch with them to review any plans
that they have.   
  
I would emphasize that there is a lot that is involved in getting a
pipeline up and running again.  And so there — there’s the announcement,
then there’s the actual process, and then some time for that to be fully
up and running — which is one of the reasons why we’re not wasting any
time and haven’t been since — even over the weekend — in taking the
steps that we need to mitigate any shortages, even things that could
happen while the pipeline is getting fully online, but before that’s
completely taking place.  
  
Q    And just to follow up for you — perhaps the both of you: You
described the permits and the waivers to allow other ways of getting
fuel to these affected areas of the country.  Is that working?  Is that
fuel arriving?  
  
SECRETARY BUTTIGIEG:  We’ve gotten indications and feedback that the
hours-of-service waiver has had an impact, and we expect that the wa- —
waivers will as well.  But obviously, they’re very new, and so I will be
closely looking for feedback both from companies and from states on how
that’s going.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  (Inaudible) anything you want to add?  
  
ADMINISTRATOR REGAN:  Well, I will add that these waivers are working. 
We’ve seen, you know, an exceptional response from all of our states who
are very appreciative of these waivers.  It does expand the fuel
supply.  It allows for fuels to be moved around more freely in the
region.  And it does relieve some of that tension.   
  
And so we’ll continue to work closely with our states and our partners
to ensure that we are taking all of the actions that we can to alleviate
some of these situations.   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Mary.   
  
Q    Mr. Secretary, we now see gas above $3 a gallon for the first time
in seven years.  Bottom line: What’s your message to Americans who are
worried about how this is going to impact their wallet?  How long do you
think this is going to last?  And do you think prices are going to go up
even further?  
  
SECRETARY BUTTIGIEG:  Well, my message is that we understand these
concerns; that we’ve seen that, in a lot of the impacted geographies,
that this is a real issue.  And that’s one of the reasons why we’ve been
working with every lever of government that’s available — and not the
federal government as an island, but interacting with states and with
companies to address this.   
  
So, you know, I can’t speak to long-term energy markets.  Obviously this
is a very specific and acute issue, but we recognize the concern that’s
out there, and that’s why we haven’t wasted any time to get into action,
and it’s why the President has directed us to be really thorough in
examining all of our different authorities and all the different pieces
of our respective agencies to be helpful.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Jen.  
  
Q    The administration has been saying that you’re willing to consider
Jones Act waivers.  Have any requests been filed?  And since the
Maritime Administration finished its survey, what did it determine about
how many Jones-Act-compliant ships are truly available right now —
(inaudible) contract near the Gulf, et cetera — that could help?  
  
SECRETARY BUTTIGIEG:  So I can’t speak to any specific waiver requests
going on right now.  But what I’ll say is that, you know, that this —
MARAD has acted very quickly to provide what is essentially one of two
parts for this determination to happen.  One is the analysis that they
do.  And then, the other part is, of course, for Homeland Security to
pick it up and run with it.  And we’ll continue making sure that they
get any information they need to be able to turn it around quickly.  
  
The level of analysis that’s already been done — my understanding is,
previously, that’s taken a couple of days, and MARAD was able to do it
in a matter of hours.  So they’re moving quickly, and bottom line is:
Stand at the ready to very expeditiously process what comes in.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Are you confident that another attack on the pipeline can’t happen
imminently?  Has the company told you anything about that — about steps
they’ve taken in the short term on that?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  We can talk about this.  I mean, they’re speaking to their
specific programs, but I will just say that we’re probably not going to
get into details about the company’s own preparations.  We’ve talked
about the fact that this was a ransomware attack, but this is — the —
these threats have been out there for some time, and it’s certainly a
reminder to this company and others to continue to harden their
cybersecurity.  But we’ll let them speak to their other preparations.   
  
Go ahead, Steven.  
  
Q    Thank you.  Secretary Buttigieg, this is Wednesday today.  We’re
talking about potentially a weekend restoration, but things are getting
really crazy out there.  The Consumer Product Safety Commission is
warning people not to fill up plastic bags with gasoline.  One in ten
gas stations in D.C. is out of gas, and the figures are far higher in
the South.  Is the Biden administration having any preliminary
discussions about potentially taking over the pipeline to restore —
restore the flow if the company is unable to do it themselves?  
  
SECRETARY BUTTIGIEG:  So, I’ve not heard anything along those lines.  We
are partnering with the company to make sure that — on everything from
the flexibilities we talked about to technical support and advice, that
they’re getting the help they need.  And they have been able, through
Line 4 and ancillary lines, to move some product.  Although again,
obviously waiting for determination on fully reopening.   
  
I will say that this is a time to be sensible and to be safe.  Of
course, we understand the concern in the areas where people are
encountering temporary supply disruptions, but hoarding does not make
things better.  And under no circumstances should gasoline ever be put
into anything but a vehicle directly or an approved container.  And
that, of course, remains true no matter what else is going on.   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Thank you, Secretary — unless you want to — we’ll take one
more.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thank you, based on what you know right now, do you anticipate
having to extend the duration or expand the scope of the fuel waivers
further?  
  
ADMINISTRATOR REGAN:  Well, we’re in very close coordination with each
individual state.  They all have different needs.  We’ll continue to
assess that.  And we do have the authority, if needed, to extend or
issue a new waiver beyond the 20 days that we have already issued.  
  
Q    Are there any travel announcements for either of you?  Or are
either of you going to any particular region to address these in person
that you’re able to update us on, or none at this time?  
  
ADMINISTRATOR REGAN:  No.  I don’t have any travel announcements at this
time.   
  
SECRETARY BUTTIGIEG:  No news for you, no.  
  
Q    Okay.  Thank you.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Thank you both.  
  
ADMINISTRATOR REGAN: Thank you.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Thank you so much for joining us.  Appreciate it.  
  
Okay.  All right, I have another, kind of, hard out here at one
o’clock.  Sorry, lots going on, but we will get to as many questions as
we can.   
  
I do have a couple of additional details of outreach from the White
House to governors I just wanted to convey to all of you.  Our White
House Director of Intergovernmental Affairs, Julie Rodriguez, has been
in contact with a range of state and local leaders to discuss the
administration’s response, obviously as have officials from a range of
agencies.  
  
In separate calls with chiefs of staff for Govern- — for Gov- — from
Governor Hogan of Maryland; Governor Northam of Virginia; Governor Wolf
of Pennsylvania; Washington, D.C., Mayor Bowser; and Nashville,
Tennessee, Mayor Cooper, Julie had productive conversations outlining
the actions we have taken to address the supply challenges, including,
of course, EPA’s waivers expanding gasoline supply.  We — in each of
these conversations, she welcomed feedback, encouraged close
coordination.   
  
I would also convey to you that <s>Secretary Granholm</s> \[Deputy
Secretary of Energy David Turk\], who was here just yesterday, also
hosted a conference call yesterday with the governors of the 14 states
impacted by the Colonial Pipeline as a part of our ongoing effort to
remain closely engaged with state and local leaders.   
  
I also wanted to provide an update on the Restaurant Revitalization
Fund.  As of today, SBA has received more than 147,000 applications from
women, veterans, and socially and economically disadvantaged
businessowners, requesting a total of $29 billion in funds.  Businesses
that qualify for grants should expect to receive the funds within two
weeks.  Already, $2.7 billion of relief funds have been distributed to
21,000 restaurants across the country already.   
  
And I would also note that to — Congress has also set aside $5 billion —
$5 billion of these funds for applicants with annual pre-pandemic gross
receipts of not more than $500,000.  On top of that, the Administrator —
Administrator Guzman from the SBA — set aside $500 million in funding
for applicants with less than $50,000 in receipts in 2019 to ensure
those smaller — smaller restaurants — bars, food trucks, and other
dining establishments — have access to those funds.  
  
Go ahead, Jonathan.  
  
Q    Thank you, Jen.  First, just wondering — I believe the meeting is
still ongoing — do you have any readouts at this point of the Big Four
meeting with the President?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I do not have a readout of the meeting that’s ongoing.  
  
Q    That’s just in case —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  But —  
  
Q    — maybe they slipped you a note.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I can — can convey to you that, one, I would expect they
will go to the stakeout.  I would also expect that we’ll have a written
readout later this afternoon to provide to all of you.  
  
Q    Setting that aside, two other matters then.  Could the — does the
White — what is the President’s response to Congresswoman Cheney’s
speech last night in which she denounced former President Trump’s “big
lie”, and said the party — the Republican Party needs to stand for our
fair and free elections, and then her subsequent ouster this morning
from her leadership position?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, let’s start with the facts: More than 80 judges across
the country threw out lawsuits attempting to overturn the outcome of the
election.   
  
And on January 6th — you know, this moment in history we’re looking at —
there are hearings on Capitol Hill about the events on January 6th.  Our
nation’s Capitol was attacked, our democracy was attacked, and six
people lost their lives.  So it’s disturbing to see any leader,
regardless of party, being attacked for simply speaking the truth.  And
as the President said last week, it’s hard to understand.   
  
But our belief, his belief is that the American people will have to make
their own decisions about whether the reaction by the people they
elected to represent them should be embracing and elevating conspiracies
and attacks on our democracy, or whether it should be standing up for
ideals that have historically been owned by both Democrats and
Republicans representing the country throughout history.   
  
Q    Okay.  And one other matter: the escalating situation in Israel. 
Does the administration plan to drop their objections to a U.N. Security
Council statement?  Are there any plans to appoint an ambassador to
Israel anytime soon or to reopen the consulate in Jerusalem that deals
with these Palestinian issues?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, first, let me say — let me give you a bit of an update
on our outreach, and some of that we haven’t read out to all of you
because a lot of it has been happening privately.  There’s been a lot of
activity and engagement around these developments over the last few
days.  
  
Just since this weekend, we’ve had more than 25 high-level calls and
meetings by senior U.S. officials with senior officials from Israel, the
Palestinian Authority, (inaudible) partners, and other stakeholders,
including the Qataris, the Tunisians, the Jordanians, the Egyptians,
who, as you all know, have an important role to play in the region as we
work to move towards de-escalati- — de-escalation.   
  
Just yesterday, we had more than 10 phone calls by senior
Washington-based officials, including National Security Advisor Jake
Sullivan’s call with his counterpart.  I will also say that in the
region, you know, we of course will nominate a qualified, experienced
ambassador to Israel over the coming weeks.  That’s in process and, when
it’s ready, we’ll announce that.   
  
But in the meantime, we have great confidence in our team on the ground
in Jerusalem led by a career diplomat, Jonathan Shrier, who enjoys open
and regular access to a range of senior officials.  And Jonathan and his
team are fully latched up with both our team here, the State Department,
officials on the ground.   
  
So our engagement is — a lot of it is happening privately through
diplomatic channels.  It’s happening with officials in the region. 
We’re in regular dialogue multiple times per day, as I noted, with
Egyptian and Qatari officials which — who have significant influence
over — for Hamas.  And our objective here is de-escalation as we look to
protecting the people in the region.   
  
Go ahead, Jeff.  
  
Q    Thanks, Jen.  Just to confirm: The meeting is still going on?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  As — when we came out here about 25 minutes ago, it was
still going on.  But I haven’t seen any rustling of activity out there,
so that’s sometimes is an indication.  
  
Q    Okay.  And without giving a readout on a meeting that may still be
going or had started anyway, can you give us a sense of — when the
President says he’s looking for consensus on a compromise, what points
did he bring to the meeting on which he is willing to compromise?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, first, I will say, Jeff, that the President believes
that he was elected to find opportunities for common ground and to
identify areas where we can work together.  So, some examples where
there’s already some activity on Capitol Hill are: A destruc- — a desc-
— a — a conversation, I should say — that was a hard word, for some
reason — about infrastructure investment, modernizing our nation’s
infrastructure.  
  
As you well know, there’s going to be a meeting tomorrow with Senator
Capito and a number of Republican senators to discuss exactly that: to
discuss the counterproposal they put forward and where we can find some
common ground.   
  
But there is also an opportunity to work together on areas like
increasing competitiveness among our workforce, to competing with China,
to addressing the semiconductor chip shortage.  There are a range of
issues that there has historically been bipartisan cooperation on,
including issues like immigration.  
  
But we will see what comes up in this meeting when we — when it
concludes.  Obviously, the President has his agenda to discuss what we
can work together on moving forward to help the American people.   
  
Each of those four leaders who are coming — none of them are
wallflowers.  I’m sure they will have items they want to discuss as
well, and I expect they’ll share that with you when the meeting
concludes.  
  
Q    Would corporate taxes be one area where he may have said, “I’m
willing to go to 25 percent instead of 28 percent”?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well he’s conveyed that, certainly, publicly, and I wouldn’t
see this as a negotiation to come to a conclusion about the American
Jobs Plan and how it will be paid for.  But he’s expressed an openness
to a range of proposals.  And his bottom line is that inaction is
unacceptable and that he is not going to raise taxes on the American
people who are making less than $400,000 a year, but he’s open to a
range of proposals.   
  
Go ahead.   
  
Q    We heard Secretary Buttigieg just mention the desire to include
more funding for cybersecurity —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — in the American Jobs Plan.  Why wasn’t that included in the
President’s initial plan?  And is it a must-do for you now?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think what he’s really talking — what the Secretary
was talking about is how the grant funding is determined and what will
be required for that grant funding.  And that’s part of the process, as
you know, as these negotiations and conversations are havening — are
happening with Capitol Hill.  
  
So, you know, I think, at this point, it will include, as the
discussions continue, tying specific grants to recipients’
implementation of cybersecurity goals using tax credits to finance
needed cybersecurity improvements.   
  
But I think it’s clear that cybersecurity — ensuring private-sector
companies are hardening their cy- — their cybersecurity, ensuring it’s
an across-the-government effort — is a priority to the President.  And
this will be linked now to our proposal for how specific grants should
be distributed.   
  
Q    And we have seen a bit of a shift in tone out of the White House in
the last 24 hours.  Yesterday, we were told: There aren’t supply
shortages; it’s a supply crunch that will be short-lived.  Now you all
are describing it as supply shortages.  Is the impact of this hack more
than you anticipated?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would say: On Monday, we said — on Monday afternoon,
so 48 hours ago, we said, “At this moment, there is not a supply
shortage.”  That was accurate at this moment.  We also said that we are
continuing to monitor very closely what the impact will be.   
  
And one of the reasons that we acted as quickly as we did — convening
interagency calls through the weekend; determining what levers could be
used very quickly and rapidly, according to historic standards, to help
put in place contingency plans to ensure we reduce the impact on the
American people — is because we had to anticipate there could be a range
of impacts.   
  
We could not predict when the company would be able to come back
online.  They obviously need to make those determinations themselves. 
So, our role is not to determine that on their behalf; it’s to make
preparations to help reduce the impact on the American public.  
  
Q    And this obviously raises concerns not just about future attacks on
pipelines, but other aspects of the electric grid, water systems, the
like.  Can Americans trust that the government can prevent future
attacks going forward?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would first note this is a attack on a
private-sector company.  And as I noted a little bit earlier when — I’m
not even sure you could hear me — but, you know, this was an attack
using ransomware.  This ransomware has been out there for some time. 
Deputy — Secretary Mayorkas, when he was Deputy Secretary, talked about,
when he was here just two days ago, the fact that we were warning about
the need to harden — for companies to put in place cybersecurity
protections back several years ago.  And that’s something we will
redouble our efforts on.  
  
At the same time, we have — since this President took office, we have
also redoubled our efforts on public-private-sector partnerships and
efforts to work together on not just best practices, but ensuring we are
protecting exactly the systems that the American people rely on.  As you
noted, some of those are federal entities, some of them are
private-sector entities.  But that has been our objective from the very
beginning, and it — this is a reminder of how important that is.   
  
Q    So what kind of steps can you do to try and encourage private
companies, private entities?  Are there tighter restrictions you can put
on their cybersecurity to ensure that these kinds of attacks don’t
happen going forward?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, there is an element of any company seeing what has
just happened over the last several days being a reminder of how
important those steps are, and that is out of our hands.  That is
probably — thanks to the reporting of all of you.   
  
But I would say that one of the reasons that we have stood up — under
Anne Neuberger, who was just here a couple of days ago — and elevated a
public-private coordinating apparatus or effort to work with the private
sector is because we want to ensure that well-intentioned companies
understand what they need to put in place and understand the risks that
they’re facing.   
  
Because we know, as this is an example of, that it won’t just impact
that company, that it can impact — depending on the entity — the
American public.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    How can the President work with Kevin McCarthy, who is poised to
anoint to a position of leadership of the Republican Conference someone
who does not believe in the legitimacy of the last election?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, the President is no stranger to working with people
who he disagrees with or he has massive fundamental disagreements with.
 The facts are on our side, and more than 80 judges across the country
threw out lawsuits attempting to overturn the outcome of the election. 
What the President believes his role is — is to lead by example and to
offer an alternative of leadership to the American people, which is
reaching his hand across the aisle, offering to work with members of
both parties on addressing issues the American people have concerns
about.  
  
Q    We heard from — I want to ask you about ransomware.  We heard from
Buttigieg and from the Administrator of the EPA just moments ago.  If
you can help, what — you speak for the President.  What is his message —
message to Americans right now who are worried about the supply of gas
and rising prices?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  His message is: I understand, and I am doing everything I
can, using every lever of government, to ensure we reduce the impact on
the American people and their lives, whether it is because they want to
do — travel for the weekend; whether they are going to visit their
grandchildren because they just got vaccinated — just to incorporate
another objective; or whatever it may be.   
  
And his concern from — his focus from the very beginning is: “Do not
halt.  Act.  I need you to act.  I need you to take action, to take —
put every — every step in place that is possible.”  
  
Q    Did Colonial — I think I know your answers to these, but I want to
ask them.  Did Colonial pay the ransom already, or will they pay it?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I would send you to Colonial to answer that question.  Of
course, the guidance from the FBI is not to do that.  
  
Q    Does the U.S. government know whether they paid or intend to pay?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I just don’t have anything more for you on that.  
  
Q    Do you believe that the public and the government have a right to
know when a major national security asset, like in this case, pays or
would pay a ransom to the Russians?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, first of all, Peter, we have not made an official
attribution, aside from the individual.  
  
Q    To whomever.  To whomever.   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Okay, but that’s an important point —  
  
Q    Good.  I appreciate it.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Just for clarification —  
  
Q    Fair enough.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  — official attribution.  I will say that there is advice and
guidance we give from the federal government, because we know this
incentivizes additional attacks.  That is guidance that’s given from the
FBI.  
  
But this is a private-sector company, and I would refer you to them for
any questions about what they have or have not paid.  
  
Q    Thank you, Jen.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Jen.  Going back to the topic that Peter first touched on
—  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — how does this President approach negotiating with someone who
says that “100 percent of \[his\] focus is on stopping this…
administration”?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would say, first, this is a meeting where they could
spend the entire time talking about areas where they disagree, including
who won the election — and the President has 80 judges and courts and
tens of millions of Americans behind him on that piece — but he doesn’t
find that particularly constructive.   
  
Clearly, the Republican Party has to work out who they are and what they
stand for, but this is not a meeting that’s focused on that.   
  
So the President has a long history of working with people where he has
strong disagreements, and his objective and his focus and his time today
— nothing more valuable than the President’s time — is going to be
finding common ground.  And that’s how he’ll approach it.  
  
Q    More broadly, how would you say that this administration approaches
the art of compromise differently than, say, the Obama administration
did?  What did you learn from those eight years?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, first, I would say that the Vice President — the
President was the Vice President at the time; he was not an outside
actor.  Right?  And he worked in close partnership with then-President
Obama to get a lot of work done for the American people — from the
Affordable Care Act, to the American <s>Rescue</s> \[Recovery\] Plan,
to, you know, moving forward an agenda in what we felt was the right
direction.  
  
In terms of lessons learned from that period of time — look, I think
that anyone who spent eight years as Vice President would probably look
back and think, you know, “What would I have done differently at the
time?”  I’ll let him speak to that more specifically.  
  
Go ahead.   
  
Q    And then —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Oh, go.  
  
Q    — just looking ahead to tomorrow’s meeting, what do you expect to
gain out of that meeting?  We talked to, I believe, all of the offices
for the Republican senators who were —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — involved, and one of them said, “If the White House isn’t
prepared to come down on its overall number or change the funding
structure, then this is all pointless.”  What’s your response to that?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  The President has been clear — as have I, speaking on his
behalf — that he’s open to compromise, and his only line in the sand is
around inaction.  And, certainly, I don’t think anyone anticipates,
including the members attending, for this to be a definitive meeting
with an outcome where everything’s signed with a bow — or tied with a
bow at the end.   
  
But we have been encouraged by the proposal.  We expect this to be a
good-faith discussion, and the President is certainly approaching it
through that prism.  
  
Go ahead, Karen.   
  
Q    Thanks, Jen.  Yesterday we heard from Senate Republicans, including
Susan Collins, who said that the public is no longer looking to the CDC
for guidance because the CDC is moving too slowly.  You saw Georgia move
ahead on the vaccinations for as young as 12 years old without waiting
for the CDC.  Is the White House concerned that the public is tuning out
the top health experts?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think you referred to two people who are obviously
in public life, but I’m not sure that’s a reflection of the totality of
the American public.   
  
What we know is that — or how we’ve approached things is that we believe
that health and medical experts should be our North Star, and that
leaning on them and their data analysis and their review of what they
think the guidance should be to ensure that the American people can be
confident in that should continue to be our North Star.   
  
So here’s what we also know: As more people get vaccinated, there will
be less and less need for certain restrictions, and the CDC has said
they will continue to evaluate the science and update their
guidelines.   
  
But our objective is to ensure that the American people have confidence
in the fact that we are leaning into — we’re not making political
decisions; we are leaning into the advice and counsel of medical
experts.  Sometimes people may feel that’s slow.  We understand.  It’s
frustrating.  I’m tired of wearing a mask, too.  We understand how the
American people are feeling, but we feel it’s important to still
maintain that commitment.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Has the White House conveyed the message to the CDC that it should
be moving quicker to loosen restrictions?  Has that come from the White
House?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  No, we have conveyed that we will continue to abide by the
health and medical advice of our health and medical experts, many of
which — many of whom are working at the CDC.  And we look forward to, as
more people are vaccinated, them continuing to update their guidelines
for the public.  
  
Q    Can I do one more quick one on infrastructure?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Of course.   
  
Q    You had said earlier that you wouldn’t see this as a negotiation to
come to a conclusion about the Jobs Plan and how it will be paid for.   
  
Knowing you can’t give a readout of the meeting that’s perhaps still
going, what did the President want to leave the room achieving today? 
Like what is the — was there one thing, tangible, that he wanted to walk
away from this conversation saying, “We hit this point; we moved this
forward”?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I think the President wanted to convey that we — the world
is not waiting for us to work together here, as Democrats and
Republicans, to increase our own competitiveness, to invest in the
American workforce.  And they’re not waiting for the resolution of a
leadership fight.   
  
They’re waiting for us to — they are — they are waiting to see what we
will do and what we will do in this moment.  And the stakes are too high
not to work together to pass an American Jobs Plan, to invest in
infrastructure, and to make us more competitive.  
  
And he wants to certainly convey — and I think his actions convey this —
that he wants this to be a good-faith effort and negotiation, and that’s
why he invited him down here — them — all of them — sorry.  
  
Go ahead, Jen.  
  
Q    Two things.  One, just very quickly.  It seems like the leadership
meeting has let out.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Oh, yeah.  Should we wrap?  
  
Q    I don’t know if there’s any — I don’t know if there’s anything that
you kind of had embargoed until that was over that you want to add about
the meeting.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I do want to give you an actual readout of the meeting.  So,
I have not — I don’t have any update on the meeting.  And if anybody
wants to go out there to a stakeout, I will not take it personally at
all — or no one who’s watching.   
  
Q    Then I just wanted to ask you about the inflation report today —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — and how the administration sees these numbers.  Is there a
concern that high inflation is going to continue for a long time and
that the administration might need to rethink its spending plans?  How
high a monthly reading is the administration willing to see, kind of,
quarter after quarter?  
  
And then, you know, there’s — a phrase that’s been used a bit by some
administration officials — including Cecilia Rouse, saying that — that
it’s “transitory.”  What — what does that mean?  Is that thinking about
the next couple of months or through the end of the year, just as we’re
seeing these bumps that, you know, might spike up some numbers or you
might see low jobs numbers and all just, kind of, the economy getting
back to, you know, normal?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  Well, first let me say that obviously our CEA chair
has said that, but it reflects the consensus view among economists that
our country — as our country is experiencing a massive transition from
the slowdowns during the pandemic to flipping the switch back on as we
are continuing the path to recovery — that we would see a specific
number of months or quarters where there is a transitory increase.  And
that’s something that we have prepared for and that most economists say
will be temporary.   
  
I will say there’s some interesting data.  It will be interesting to us,
I think; hopefully, to others.  But, you know, for example, that — as we
looked at this data.  So airfares increased by 10 percent, but are still
almost 20 percent below pre-pandemic price levels.  Hotels also see a
price increase, but remain — saw a price increase, but remain below
pre-pandemic price levels.  
  
So Americans are feeling more comfortable traveling again.  That’s a
good sign.  And a lot of these price increases are still below what they
were prior to the pandemic.   
  
We’re also seeing in the data that some of the price increases impact
the reflect- — are a reflection of the supply-chain pressure.  So, if
you look at used motor vehicle prices, that accounted for more than a
third of the increase.  And that was an impact, in large part, because
there are fewer new cars and, as a result, there are more — and this is
the — and that is an impact of the semiconductor chip shortage. 
Right?   
  
So, there’s a couple of datapoints that are specific to this moment. 
And we knew, just as the — as the economy, sort of, shrunk and shut
down, that, as it’s turning back on, there would be some of these
impacts.   
  
But we are constantly tracking.  We have shared our expectations on
inflation.  We — as we experienced this — this massive transition, we
continue to chart our path to recovery, and we know that a number of the
investments that we have proposed were long needed even before, you
know, the last several months.  
  
Q    Just one (inaudible) question.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  
  
Q    You know, you have these surprising inflation numbers, the jobs
number was much lower than expected, the situation in Israel, the
pipeline.  Does it suddenly feel like the external world is turning on
you guys or — or that you suddenly are juggling a lot more crises?  Or
any concern about that?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  That’s what we’re made for here.  We certainly know that —
and the President knew from having served as Vice President for eight
years — that when you when you walk in and you’re the leader of the free
world and you’re overseeing a country that is still working its way
through a pandemic and an economic recovery, that you have to prepare —
be prepared to juggle multiple challenges, multiple crises at one time. 
And that’s exactly what we’re doing at this moment.  
  
Go ahead, Courtney.  
  
Q    Thanks, Jen.  I just wanted to follow up on what you said about the
President nominating an ambassador to Israel in the coming weeks.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Mm-hmm.  
  
Q    I want to go back to Jonathan’s question: Is the President
considering reopening a consul- — or consulate general in Jerusalem? 
And then, more broadly, when can we expect the President to announce his
more high-profile ambassadorships?  Will that come before he travels in
June?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  It’s not timed to a trip, I will say, but I would expect
we’ll have more in the coming weeks.  They go through a process of
consideration, and, obviously, final decision is by the President of the
United States.  
  
In terms of the question about reopening the consulate, I would
certainly point you to the State Department.  They may have already
addressed that, but they’d be the appropriate entity for that.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Jen.  And thanks for continuing to take questions despite
this weird situation.   
  
MS. PSAKI:  I — I know, but it’s okay.  I know people wanted to go out
there, but yeah.  
  
Q    So, I’ve got two questions in two areas.  I’d like to ask quickly
about jobs and also about a couple of press freedom issues, which, of
course, I imagine is important to everyone here.  
  
The first one on jobs: The Brooklyn Chamber of Commerce just polled 200
small businesses, and 64 percent are having trouble hiring people; 42
percent of them cited the higher COVID-19 unemployment benefits. 
University of Chicago, separately, estimated 32 percent of people are
getting more money not to work than they would’ve in their previous
jobs.  
  
President Biden said on Monday, quote, that “No one should be allowed to
game the system and we’ll insist \[that\] the law is followed.”  Has the
White House done anything to, you know, instruct states to more severely
enforce those — the rules on unemployment benefits?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  We certainly expect any state is enforcing the law.  But I
would say that what we’ve seen across most — the majority of economic
data and from the majority of economists is that the biggest impacts and
factors are the pandemic and the fact that we’re still recovering from a
pandemic; and people having concerns or issues with childcare; or fears,
if they’re not yet vaccinated, about going back to a workplace.   
  
And there are a number of steps we’ve put in place, including assistance
to restaurants, as I noted earlier today; to small businesses to ensure
they have that vital assistance at this point in time.   
  
And obviously, for bigger companies, we’ve been encouraging them to use
some of the $1.4 trillion in assistance they’ve received to pay higher
living wages.   
  
But those are the range of factors that most economists believe are the
issues at this point in time, even though we look at data over the
course of several months.  And over several months, we’ve been creating
about 500,000 jobs a month.  
  
Q    So when President Biden says that, he’s basically just putting it
out there that states should enforce it and that people should comply
with the rules in place, not necessarily that there’s anything new the
federal government is doing.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, we certainly expect states to abide by the laws, as
I’m sure you do.   
  
Did you have a second question?  
  
Q    Yes, I do.  I’d like to ask about a couple of press freedom
issues.  On Friday, we learned that the Justice Department, last year,
seized the phone records of several Washington Post journalists.  The
Biden Justice Department defended this, saying that it was the sources
they were after, not the reporters.   
  
But there are some press freedom advocates who are pretty concerned
about that defense.  Trevor Timm of the Freedom of the Press Foundation
said that the Biden Justice Department gave a “disturbing defense” of
the practice.  Bruce Brown, the Executive Director of The Reporters for
Freedom of the Press said that it “raises serious First Amendment
concerns.”   
  
Do you, as the government’s top press officer, have concerns about
reporters’ records being taken, including in this instance?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, given this was an action taken by the last
administration, and the Department of Justice who oversees, obviously,
our legal actions has already spoken to it, I’m not going to have
anything additional to add.  
  
Q    The second part on press freedom is — this marked — marks
International Press Freedom Day, which was celebrated on Twitter by the
Secretary of State and the Vice President —  
  
MS. PSAKI: Yep.  
  
Q    — who wrote the “free press is critical to democracy.”   
  
The whistleblower Edward Snowden responded by writing out, “This would
be more persuasive if the White House \[wasn’t\] aggressively seeking a
175-year sentence for \[a\] publisher of award-winning journalism…” 
He’s referring to WikiLeaks publisher, Julian Assange.   
  
The Obama-Biden administration was infamous for taking a heavy hand
toward reporters and leaks, including taking the Associated Press’s call
records and calling a Fox reporter a “possible conspirator.”  But the
Obama Justice Department decided not to prosecute Assange for fear of
setting a precedent that could be used to prosecute journalists dealing
with classified information.   
  
In the name of press freedom, will President Biden be intervening in the
Assange case to stop the prosecution?  Or will he be allowing the
Justice Department and the courts to sort this out?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, in the name of independent Justice, we will allow the
Justice Department — encourage the Justice Department to continue to be
an independent Justice Department — which I know is different from what
we saw over the last four years, so it feels funny to some people.  
  
Go ahead, in the back.  
  
Q    Thank you, Jen.  The first question about the potential closing of
the Line 5 pipeline in Michigan.  Has the President been in touch — in
contact with Prime Minister Trudeau?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  That’s in the courts.  So, we’re not going to have anything
to add.  It’s in a courts process right now.  
  
Q    The amicus brief of the Canadian government in the U.S. federal
court says that — describes the potential closing as a “massive and
potentially permanent” blow to Canadian economy and energy security.  Is
this a way to treat an ally like Canada?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I think we’ve talked about, in here, how important of a
partner Canada is and will continue to be on a range of issues — from
addressing the pandemic, to just being a regional partner on facing
issues around the globe.  But this, again, is a — is a situation that’s
in the court, so I’m not going to have more comment on it.  
  
Q    One separate issue —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I got to go around to other people because I have three
minutes left.  I’m sorry, keep going.  
  
Q    I just have two quick ones.  So, my first question, I wanted to ask
about — there’s a recent New York Magazine article about how the White
House polices language in Washington that I’m sure you read the other
day.   
  
And a particular graph points to an Associated Press memo that advises
reporters against using the word “crisis,” which the administration has
— has said that they’re not going to use the word “crisis” for the
border.   
  
It cites a person close to the White House as saying that “one very real
possibility is \[that\] this strategy works.  They may get criticism in
think pieces about it, but at his hundred-day mark, Biden is the most
liberal President we’ve had — and the public thinks he’s a moderate. 
That’s a winning strategy to me.  They’re \[going\] to accept that
you’re gonna to write this piece as long as they know that swing voters
in Colorado aren’t gonna to read it.”  
  
So does this reflect the White House’s thinking, that the goal is for
Americans to view the President as moderate as he pursues, according to
the quote, “the most liberal agenda that we’ve seen”?  
  
MS.  PSAKI:  There was a lot packed into that question.  It must have
taken some time to write.  I will say that our goal is to implement
solutions as it relates to the challenges at the border and not to be
caught up in semantics of what we call it.  Because, at the end of the
day, what we’ve seen is a massive reduction in the number of children
who are being detained in Border Patrol facilities thanks to the actions
of this administration.   
  
We’ve seen a massive reduction in the number of hours kids spend in
Border Patrol facilities.  And we’re continuing to work to get kids into
the arms of their family members or to sponsor homes.  And that’s what
our objective is.   
  
I can’t speak to a blind, anonymous quote from somebody outside of the
White House, which we’d all be for banning those if others would want to
commit to that as well.   
  
Go ahead.  Go ahead.   
  
Q    Sure, thank you.  What contingency plans are in place if Congress
can’t come to a quick agreement on increasing the debt ceiling, since
Secretary Yellen suggested that Treasury might exhaust the so-called
“extraordinary measures” sooner than some analysts have estimated?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, let me just first say that we fully expect Congress to
act in a timely manner to raise or suspend the debt ceiling, as they did
three times on a broad bipartisan basis during the last
administration.    
And, as you know from covering it, raising or suspending the debt
ceiling does not authorize new spending; it merely allows Treasury to
meet obligations that Congresses have already approved.  So, that’s what
our focus is on and we certainly expect them to follow suit of the last
several administrations — or last several times they raised it.   
  
  
Go ahead, in the back.  
  
Q    Thank you, Jen.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Thanks for your patience.   
  
Q    No problem.  Just a few quick ones.   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  
  
Q    And I’ll be quick.  Does immigration continue to be a priority in
these meetings that are so important and that could do a lot for the
progress of an immigration bill?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, again, I can’t — it’s hard for me — they may have read
some of it out — to read out a meeting that was still going on when I
came out here.  But the President remains committed — the — immigration
continues to be a top priority for the President.  That’s why he
proposed a bill on day one.  That’s why he communicated in his joint
session speech that we should look for ways to find common ground, find
agreement on what pieces we can move forward.   
  
And he certainly believes — even as we’ve made progress at the border —
that in order to address this over the long term, we need to put in
place long-term solutions.  So he will continue to absolutely advocate
for it, but I — I don’t know if it was a topic in the meeting yet.  
  
Q    The rancher who found — the couple who found the five young girls
that were rescued a few days ago said to the President in an interview
that he did, “We want you to come to the border.  This is not humane
anymore.”  What do you have to say about that?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I will say, first, that that was a heartbreaking situation,
and we’re thankful for the work of CBP to ensure those minors’ safety. 
This is another example of why we continue to be very clear that
individuals should not make the treacherous journey north and put their
lives in the hands of smugglers or others for unsafe circumstances.   
  
And again, just to reiterate: Our focus remains on solutions, on
ensuring we’re expediting processing, we’re getting kids into safe and
humane conditions, and that’s — if going to the border changed that or
helped that, that would be one thing.  But our focus is on implementing
pieces that we can — so we can make their lives better.   
  
Q    And if I may finish, on consumer prices — picking back up on what
was asked earlier on: Is this a concern going forward that the prices
will continue to rise, that they will have an impact on the recovery
that you want to have on the economy?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, again, I think this is obviously something we — we
monitor quite closely.  And we certainly monitor specifically from —
it’s the job of the independent Federal Reserve to manage all aspects of
inflationary pressure as they pursue their dual mandate of achieving
full employment at stable prices — at stable prices.  So, it’s the
policy of us not to — executive branch — not to comment on that, really,
in terms of the future of inflation.   
  
But I will say that, you know, it’s important to note what the very
specific — as I did in response to an earlier question — factors are at
play here, which include, as I noted, the airfare is increasing by 10
percent but — but still being 20 percent below pre-pandemic levels;
hotels seeing a price increase but remaining below pre-pandemic levels. 
So there are a range of factors here at play.   
  
Obviously, adjusting the — addressing the semiconductor chip shortage
that we think — we remain committed to and we will continue to work to
address.   
  
Okay, thanks.  Okay.  
  
Q    Just moments ago, Leader McConnell said to those reporters — some
of whom are back —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  This is like real-life happening here.   
  
Q    Real news in real time.  Leader McConnell said moments ago that
they communicated to the President that they will not budge on the 2017
tax cuts, which means — well, you know what that means.  I guess, what
does the White House — what do you say to that?  And then, how would you
pay for this if you’re not going to pay with — via tax cuts?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think that question is more —  
  
Q    (Inaudible.)  
  
MS. PSAKI:  That question is probably more on Republicans to address
than it is on the President.  He’s proposed a way to pay for it.  We’ll
see what other ideas they have.   
  
Thanks, everyone.   
  
1:04 P.M. EDT
