---
category: press-briefings
date: '2021-05-28'
modified_time: 2021-05-28 16:00:30-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/05/28/on-the-record-press-call-by-omb-acting-director-shalanda-young-and-cea-chair-cecilia-rouse-on-the-presidents-budget-for-fiscal-year-2022/
published_time: 2021-05-28 16:00:29-04:00
title: "On-the-Record Press Call by OMB Acting Director Shalanda Young and CEA Chair\
  \ Cecilia Rouse on the President\u2019s Budget for Fiscal Year\_2022"
---
 
Via Teleconference

11:05 A.M. EDT

MR. FRIEDLANDER:  Hey, everyone.  This is Rob from the OMB
Communications team.  Thanks so much for joining us.  This will be an
on-the-record call about the President’s Fiscal Year 2022 Budget.

We will be joined by Shalanda Young, Acting Director of OMB; as well as
Cecilia Rouse, Chair of the Council of Economic Advisers.  They’ll each
make some brief comments at the top, and then we’ll have time to take
some questions at the end.

As a reminder, this call will be on-the-record and embargoed until 1:30
p.m. Eastern Time today, along with the materials you’ve received also
under embargo until 1:30 p.m. today.

And with that, I will turn it over to Acting Director Young.

ACTING DIRECTOR YOUNG:  Well, thanks, Rob.  And thanks to all of you for
joining.  I want to start with a very quick overview of this year’s
budget process, which, many of you know, looks a little different in a
transition year.

Back in April, we released the topline information for the President’s
discretionary request for Fiscal Year 2022, which provided Congress with
guidance on his funding priorities to help inform the appropriations
process.

That discretionary request recommended that Congress reinvest robustly
in areas like public health, education, basic science, and clean
energy.  The country had been weakened by a decade of disinvestment in
these areas, which were squeezed under restrictive budget caps.  The
discretionary request issued a clear call for Congress to reinvest in
these areas, restoring nondefense appropriations to its historical
average share of the economy.

Additionally, the President also unveiled his American Jobs Plan and
American Families Plan.  Together, these two will be transformational:
strengthening our economy, boosting American competitiveness, and
delivering shared prosperity and economic security.

Today, we’re releasing a budget that puts these pieces together and does
exactly what the President told the country he would do: grow the
economy, create jobs, and do so responsibly by requiring the wealthiest
Americans and big corporations to pay their fair share.

Already, we know that the President’s economic plan is working.  New
unemployment claims are down 60 percent since he took office, the
economy created more new jobs in the President’s first 100 days than the
first 100 days of any President on record, and growth is stronger than
anyone expected.  And this budget outlines the next steps in that plan.

The budget investments — the budget starts with the American Jobs Plan —
a once-in-a-generation investment in America that will put millions of
people to work rebuilding our country — fixing highways, rebuilding
bridges, and upgrading our transit systems; replacing all lead pipes and
service lines in our drinking water systems; investing in the
infrastructure of our care economy and creating new and better jobs for
caregiving workers; and much, much more.

The budget also includes the President’s American Families Plan — a
historic investment in the middle class and in the pathways to the
middle class, including education, healthcare, and childcare. 

And the budget also incorporates the President’s discretionary request. 
For example, it calls for $6.5 billion to launch ARPA-H — a historic
20-billion-dollar increase for Title I schools to advance educational
opportunity for all students; the largest budget authority increase at
the CDC in nearly two decades to help rebuild its capacity to detect,
prepare for, and respond to emerging global threats; and $36 billion in
discretionary climate investments, just to name a few. 

And finally, the budget reiterates the President’s strong call to
Congress during his joint address to move on healthcare — reducing the
costs of prescription drug, and expanding and improving health coverage.

Put together, this budget is an agenda for robust, durable economic
growth and broadly shared prosperity.  It will deliver a strong economy
now and for decades into the future.  And it is in an investment in
Americans all across the country who power our economy.

The budget makes these investments in a way that’s responsive to both
the near- and medium-term economic landscape, as well as the long-term
challenges our country faces.

In the near-term, the decades-long, global trend of declining interest
rates, even as publicly held debt has increased, gives us the fiscal
space to make necessary upfront investments.

Under the budget policies, the real cost of federal debt payments will
remain below the historical average through the coming decade, even as
the budget assumes that interest rates will rise from their current
lows, consistent with private-sector forecasts.  Low real debt service
payments show that the cost of these upfront investments is not
burdening the economy.  To the contrast, failing to make these
investments at a time of such low interest costs would be an historic
missed opportunity that would leave future generations worse off.

This budget does not make that mistake, and it invests — its investments
will pay dividends for generations to come. 

Over the long run, when we face larger fiscal challenges and more
uncertainty about interest rates, the budget will reduce the deficit and
improve our nation’s finances.

That’s because its frontloaded investments are more than paid for
through permanent tax reforms that will ensure corporations and the
wealthiest Americans pay their fair share.

You’ll see, in summary tables that all of you should have, that the
budget policies reduce annual deficits beginning in 2030 and by
increasing amounts thereafter. 

It also shows that the budget policies reduce deficits in every year
beyond the 10-year window and by over $2 trillion in the subsequent
decade.

And it also shows that the American Jobs Plan and the American Families
Plan are fully offset within 15 years.

So, as a whole, the budget will improve our nation’s long-term finances
while making the growth-enhancing investments that we need right now.

With that, let me turn it over to Chairwoman Rouse to talk about the
budget’s economic assumptions and the economic outlook under the
budget’s policies.

CHAIR ROUSE:  Thank you.  And thank you for you time today.  I want to
use this opportunity to cover two important elements of the budget: the
economic motivation and the economic forecast behind its policies.

As Acting Director Young just mentioned, this is a very important and
forward-looking budget.  The policies proposed are premised on the idea
that, to move forward as a country, we need to invest in innovation. 
And the public sector is critical to building a robust and inclusive
economy. 

When the government invests in infrastructure and families, it acts a
partner, not a rival, to private business.  When it underinvests in
these public goods, it diminishes the private sector’s productivity and
its ability to grow, hire, and invest.

Moreover, when the public sector doesn’t fulfill its side of the
partnership with the private sector, the harm is not equally felt. 
Low-income neighborhoods and communities of color bear the brunt of the
harm.

A robust — a robust body of economic evidence has found that investments
like these in the budget pay off for years to come in the form of
stronger economic growth, less reliance on transfer benefits, and
greater tax revenue.

The President has proposed a comprehensive tax plan to offset these
investments by asking corporations and wealthy individuals to shoulder
their fair share of the tax burden.

Most importantly, it is imperative that this country makes up for
decades of underinvestment in important parts of our country, which, as
I noted earlier, will pay off in the long run.

Typically, when policies like this are proposed, they are baked into the
budget forecast.  And typically, a three-months’ difference between when
a forecast is done and when the budget is proposed is not really a big
deal.

But I don’t need to tell you that this year was unlike any other in
modern history.  When we did the forecast in early February, the world
looked much different than it does today. 

At that point, it was unclear how we could successfully stand up a
national vaccination program, how fast we could get those shots into
arms, how effective the shots would be, and how much vaccinating a
nation would free up consumers to spend and businesses to reopen.

In addition, the American Jobs Plan and the American Families Plan — the
cornerstone of the budget — were in the early stages of development. 

That February forecast projected real GDP growth at 5.2 percent in 2021,
and 3.2 percent in 2022.

We began the year with a 6.3 percent unemployment rate and expected it
to fall to 5.5 percent by the end of 2021, and 4.1 percent by the end of
2022.

We also expected short-term interest rates to rise slowly as the economy
approached full employment and inflation to stabilize around 2 percent.

There are two important reasons why our current economic reality looks
different from our February forecast.  First, the economic reality on
the ground, as summer looms, is very different than last winter. 
Recovery and real GDP has outperformed our expectations thus far.  More
than half of adults in the United States have been fully vaccinated,
accelerating a full reopening.  The consensus forecast for real GDP
growth during 2021 has climbed from 5.0 to 7.0 percent. 

Aside from GDP, two other components of the forecast that have been
revised up as well: the consensus view about 10-year yield and the
expectation for 2021 inflation. 

Second, as I noted earlier, the forecast does not fully reflect the
policies proposed in the budget.  This is a solid —

a budget that reflects President Biden’s vision for investing in people
and society, and ensures that the economy grows and that everyone shares
in the prosperity.  And it understands that the public sector is a key
component in moving us forward. 

Thank you for your time.

MR. FRIEDLANDER:  Great, thanks very much.  Moderator, we’ll be ready to
take some questions now. 

Q    Yes, hi.  This is Asma with National Public Radio.  I just wanted
to better understand, you know, how you’re addressing some of the
concerns that have been risen, particularly from fiscal hawks, that even
though interest rates are low right now and these are investments you
need to do, that if you don’t sort of tackle the gaping structural
deficit problem that the country is in, it will be enormously difficult
to deal with the debt problem over the long term.

ACTING DIRECTOR YOUNG:  Thank you.  Thank you for that question.  You
know, that is certainly one way to look at the budget.  There are also
other metrics of how you look at this with sustainability.  And we
certainly believe that the President’s budget improves the long-term
fiscal outlook because his policies are more than paid for over the long
run. 

So this President is putting forth a historic, staggering agenda that
changes the long-term view of how this country invests in its
infrastructure and brings its competitiveness with those like China back
to where we should be — which is first in the world — while ensuring
that he not only offsets his policies, but improves the deficit picture,
starting in 2030, and by cutting deficits over — by over $2 trillion in
the 10 years after that. 

That is a sharp departure from unpaid tax cuts under the prior
administration that seriously wor- — worsened our long-term fiscal
problems. 

But for the near term and the medium term, we believe the most important
test of our fiscal health is real interest payments on the debt.  That’s
what tells us whether debt is burdening our economy and crowding out
other investments. 

This budget takes advantage of the fiscal space created by historically
low interest rates to make urgently needed investments that will
contribute to growth and shared prosperity.  Under the budget’s
policies, the real cost of federal debt payments will remain below the
historical average through the coming decades, showing that the cost of
these upfront investments is not burdening the economy.

Q    Wall Street Journal.  This is a question, I guess, for Chairwoman
Rouse on the economic assumptions.  So you mentioned the consensus
forecast for GDP 10-year yields and inflation — how those have shifted. 
Could you tell us — and maybe I just misunderstood — how the White House
forecasts have changed?  Like what are you actually expecting this year
and maybe next year for real GDP rates and inflation at this point?

CHAIR ROUSE:  So, you know, we did this like a forecast, which is led by
the CEA, but very much in conjunction with OMB and the Treasury
Department.  And we developed that forecast in early February. 

But, you know, just like you are, we’re watching the economy, and we can
see that GDP growth in the first quarter came in at 6.4 percent.  You
know, we have seen unemployment come down.  You know, we just got to PCE
numbers on inflation, which shows that people are spending and the
economy is opening up. 

So, you know, if we were revising today, we would certainly be
reflecting these new economic realities into our forecasts.  But we
don’t update the forecast, you know, mid-cycle in this way because we
need to develop the budget in time for agencies to develop their own
budgets.  And if we were to have revised the budget, it would have
delayed this budget roll- — if we revised our forecast that would have
delayed this budget rollout even further, which we didn’t think would be
such a wise thing to do.

Q    Hi, thanks.  Yeah, Niv Elis from The Hill.  So I have two
questions.  One is, it looks like the net interest that’s going to be
paid rises to $914 billion by the end of the decade, which is 40 percent
more than the primary deficit.  So with net interest costs getting that
high, can you sort of explain how that counts as a responsible fiscal
course when so much is just going to pay off the debt?

The other question is also about GDP.  You talked about how the — this
forecast didn’t incorporate the effects of the Jobs Plan and the
Families Plan.  Do you have forecasts as to how those would increase GDP
if they are enacted? 

ACTING DIRECTOR YOUNG:  So, I’ll start with the interest-rate question
and let the Chairwoman jump in on GDP.  But, as you point out, our
budget does build in assumptions about a future rise in interest rates. 
That’s the responsible thing to do, and that’s exactly what you see. 

Even with assumed interest — increase in interest rates, real interest
payments on the federal debt, which are a key test of fiscal health,
remain low by historical standards throughout the coming decade, showing
that this budget puts the nation on sound fiscal course for the near
term.

Like CBO and market forecasters, we don’t assume that interest rates go
all the way back to the last seen — level seen several decades ago. 
That’s because the decline in interest rates is a global persistent
phenomenon; it has not been temporary or localized. 

And that being said, things could change.  And we recognize that the
long-run outlook is more uncertain.  That’s one of the reasons why the
President has put forward proposals to pay for all of his policies and,
in fact, reduces deficits over time by reforming our tax system so that
corporations and the very wealthy pay their fair share.

CHAIR ROUSE:  Terrific.  And so, this is Cecilia Rouse, and I’ll take
the second question about the impacts of the AJP and the AFP. 

So just — just as a reminder, when we made the budget forecast, it was
early February.  And, nonetheless, we do assume that at 10 years out —
in 2031 — that real GDP growth would be about — would be at 10 — at 2.0
percent.  So when we made this forecast, we did include some — we did
expect some positive growth effects from some of the investments that we
knew we wanted to be able to make, but we hadn’t fully developed those
programs at that time. 

So, you know, in terms of the protect — projected impact of the AJP and
the AFP on the economy, I will refer you to Mark Zandi’s forecast.  And
he projects that these two programs — by 2030, that we will have GDP at
2.3 percent and unemployment will have fallen under 3.8 percent.

Q    Hi, this is Benjy Sarlin with NBC News.  I just want to ask about a
pair of healthcare reforms that seem to be mentioned in the factsheet:
the drug reform and the public option.  I was wondering if you could
explain to me exactly where they fit into this budget.  Is there a
specific proposal that is being incorporated into assumption? 

Or is this more just a general statement that the White House would like
Congress to eventually pass something on this without further details? 
And if so, why is there not a more detailed incorporation into this
budget?

ACTING DIRECTOR YOUNG:  Hey, thanks for that.  We — we love to talk
about healthcare policy, so thanks for giving us the opportunity to do
that. 

One, I do want to make sure we note, in the Families Plan — so a part of
this budget — the President does have a robust healthcare proposal.  It
makes permanent — it will make permanent the premium tax credit
improvements that, as we all know, helped millions of people gain
coverage and reduce premiums for millions more.  This budget also
invests $400 billion in improving home- and community-based services for
older people and people with disabilities.

What the budget does — I think you’re referring to — is also calls on
Congress to act this year — the President is very clear he would like to
see action this year — to reduce prescription drug costs; strengthen
ACA, Medicaid, and Medicare coverage; and create additional public
coverage options. 

We know there are proposals on the Hill being introduced, and we believe
that it is more productive to work collaboratively with Congress to
develop and build consensus around the specific policies that achieve
his broad goals.

Q    Oh, hey.  Ben White at Politico.  Thanks for doing this.  I just
want to go back to the growth projections for a second.  I mean,
obviously you’ve talked about how this was done in February pre-AJP and
AFP.  Do we just disregard these projections as too small?  Because
they’re relatively tepid growth rates for the kind of investments you’re
talking about making.  How should we think about that?  Should we just
discount this as, you know, old numbers?  And should we expect much
faster growth going forward?  Or how should we think about it?

CHAIR ROUSE:  Well, a great — good question.  So again, our budget does
assume that real GDP growth is at 2.0 percent 10 years out — so that’s
in 2031.  So we want to put that 2.0 long-term forecast in perspective. 
The Congressional Budget Office’s projection, which was also released in
February, used then-current law assumptions.  So it didn’t include the
ARP — the American Rescue Plan; the AJP; or the AFP, and it reaches GDP
of 1.6 percent in 2031.  The median Federal Reserve long-term growth
forecast back in mid-March was 1.8 percent. 

So I want to just highlight this seemingly small difference in —
differences in real GDP growth can end up having enormous effects on the
output and income that our economy generates over time. 

So, for example, let’s take a difference between the CBO’s 2031 real GDP
growth projection, 1.6 percent, and our 2 percent 2031 forecast.  So
that’s a difference of 0.4 percentage points each year in the long
term.  That 0.4 percentage point difference in real growth would
translate into the U.S. economy cumulatively producing $4.8 trillion
more over a decade in inflation-adjusted 2019 dollars.  So that’s
roughly $1 trillion more than the annual GDP of Germany.  That just shy
of the annual GDP of Japan. 

Put another way, that extra output from an extra 0.4 percentage points
of real growth each year, summed over a decade, would be the equivalent
of $36,000 per household, again in 2019 dollars.  So, differences of a
mere tenths of a percentage points to economic growth can gradually add
up to be the size of whole nations’ economies.

Q    Hi, there, Jim Tankersley with the New York Times. Thanks so much
for doing this.  Racial equity has been a big focus of the President,
but there is not a racial equity breakout in this budget.  Why?

ACTING DIRECTOR YOUNG:  So thank you for that.  I — you know, I think
one way to accomplish things like racial equity, which is important — as
you’ve pointed out, the President is taking historic action — is to
ensure that we’re looking at implementing all of our programs with that
in mind. 

So, we have built that in.  We have given clear direction to our
agencies that they are to use that lens as they implement these
programs.  You know, we can’t wait on this, and this is why we have
given clear instructions to agencies, with resources they have now, that
they should be looking at racial equity with everything that they do. 
This is not something we should have to call out; this is something that
should be pervasive in how the government does its business. 

So you — you may not see a line item, but I think that’s more than
appropriate with the way the President has asked his government to
address these long, pervasive issues.

Q    Hey, guys.  It’s Justin Sink from Bloomberg.  I’m wondering — just
to make sure I’m reading this correctly — if you see the entirety of the
Trump tax cuts expiring at their end but in the middle of your 10-year
budget cycle. 

And, you know, there’s been criticism that that would violate the
President’s pledge not to raise taxes on those making under $400,000 a
year.  So how do you, kind of, grapple with that question?

ACTING DIRECTOR YOUNG:  Hey, this is Shalanda.  I’m happy to restate as
many times as you allow me: The President has committed, continues to
commit, will commit forever that individuals making under $400,000 a
year will not have to pay a single dollar more in taxes. 

The tax expiration issue that you brought up doesn’t happen until 2025. 
The President will use the time between now and that expiration in 2025
to work with Congress to continue reforming our tax code so that it can
ask the wealthy to pay their fair share, raising the right amount of
revenue, and protect the low- and middle-income families. 

So, you know, absolutely we are tracking this, but what — the issue you
raise is an issue in 2025, and this is a 2022 budget.  And so, we are
certainly aware and we’ll ensure that Congress keeps to the President’s
pledge that we not raise taxes on those under $400,000.

MR. FRIEDLANDER:  Great.  And, Moderator, we have time for one more
question.

Q    Hi, this is Ben Popken with NBC News.  So prices are rising and —
does the budget anticipates that wage growth will outpace rising
inflation, deterioration of consumer purchasing power, especially for
lower-income households.  And is there a time period before that becomes
true?  Thank you.

CHAIR ROUSE:  So the budget does — the budget certainly does project
that there’s going to be some short-term inflation, although we do
expect it to settle back down to about 2 percent at an annual rate.

You know, we anticipate that the — that because of these policies, we’re
going to have some GDP growth, which will be benefiting all Americans. 
We know that when you reach full employment — which we also anticipate
that through these policies we’ll reach full employment — that that
benefits all, as the President outlined and la- — leaned into in his
speech yesterday. 

And so we — we expect that everybody will benefit and that the economy
will benefit from the productivity-enhancing investments that are
embedded in this budget, funded from the revenue that would be largely
from the wealthiest Americans to help pay for these investments.

MR. FRIEDLANDER:  Great, thank you so much.  And thanks, all of you, for
joining us on a Friday. 

A reminder that the contents of this call are on the record and
embargoed until 1:30 p.m. Eastern time today. 

And with that, hope you all have a great weekend.  Thanks so much.

11:31 A.M. EDT
