---
category: press-briefings
date: '2021-05-18'
modified_time: 2021-05-18 17:14:19-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/05/18/press-briefing-by-white-house-covid-19-response-team-and-public-health-officials-37/
published_time: 2021-05-18 12:28:45-04:00
title: "Press Briefing by White House COVID- \u2060 19 Response Team and Public Health\
  \ Officials"
---
 
Via Teleconference

10:19 A.M. EDT  
  
ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Good morning.  Today, Dr. Walensky will
provide us with an update on the state of the pandemic, Dr. Fauci will
provide an update on the latest science, and Dr. Marcella Nunez-Smith
will highlight our work to advance equity and ensure we are reaching
everyone in our response.  
  
But first, I want to talk directly to young people about how full of
opportunity this season is for them.  It’s May.  And for young people,
it is the traditional season for graduations — a time when very
accomplished and wise adults share free life advice along the lines of:
“Live up to your potential,” “Make the world a better place,” and of
course, “Use sunscreen.”  
  
Today, I’d like to join a little bit in that tradition.  My message to
young people, of course, is simple: “Get vaccinated.”  Whether you’re a
graduate, still in high school, in college, just out, or more than a
little bit out, it’s the most important thing you can do right now.   
  
Young people have been through a lot in this pandemic.  In many ways,
the pandemic has been as hard on young people as anyone.  The pandemic
disrupted your schooling, your job search, your income, and your social
lives.  Some of you lost parents, grandparents, or other loved ones. 
You have seen and experienced stress in a way you probably haven’t
before.  I know it’s been an anxious time and you’ve been asked to do
difficult things.  
  
But there is light at the end of the tunnel.  Vaccines have led to a
dramatic decline in cases and hospitalizations and in deaths.   
  
For the first time since the pandemic began, COVID cases are down in all
50 states.  We are winning the war on the virus, and we need you to help
us finish the job.  
  
Getting vaccinated is something you can do to protect yourself and your
family.  It will help you and all of us return to a closer-to-normal
life.   
  
There’s also another consideration that graduation speakers would surely
point out: As much as you have been through, getting vaccinated is far
from the last thing your country will ask from you.  Your participation
in society is one of the elements of citizenship.   
  
In many ways, your generation has shown us how you make the world a
better place.  And getting vaccinated is part of carrying the mantle of
becoming the generation that changes things for the better.  To be sure,
you have the power to help your country and the world for the better
right now.   
  
And to help you, we have made it as easy and convenient as possible. 
Overall, there are more than 80,000 locations with vaccines.  Ninety
percent of you have one within five miles of where you live right now. 
The vaccine is ready and waiting for you.  You can text your ZIP Code to
438829 — that’s 438829 — to get locations near you with vaccines in
stock right now.  
  
And if you think appointments are a hassle, don’t worry: More than
20,000 local pharmacies in communities across the nation are offering
walk-in vaccines.  That’s right: No need for an appointment.  
  
These vaccinations are essential.  However, if you are unvaccinated, you
are at risk, regardless of your age.  According to the CDC, more than 3
million kids under 17 have contracted COVID-19.  And even though it’s
rare for kids to get severely ill from COVID-19, it can happen.  So,
let’s prevent that.  
  
Vaccines are offering hundreds of millions of Americans the protection
they need to return to closer-to-normal lives.  As the CDC announced
last week, fully vaccinated individuals can now safely do nearly all
daily activities without a mask.   
  
I want to reveal something personal, with permission, that underscores
their importance.  Last fall, one of my sons con- — contracted
COVID-19.  Unfortunately, he is one of the many Americans battling
long-term symptoms.  
  
He’s young and fit and in the prime of his life.  But six months later,
he still suffers from tachycardia, shortness of breath, and ongoing and
frequent flu-like symptoms.  His hands are cold to the touch.  Neither
he nor his parents — my wife and I — are sure how long this will last. 
Many young people are in this situation, and many, many have it
worse.   
  
I know it’s easy when you’re young to imagine that these things don’t
affect you.  A vaccine may feel unnecessary.  You feel healthy.  You
know people who have had COVID and are doing all right.   
  
But we are still learning about the long-term effects of COVID.  And, as
you’ll hear from Dr. Walensky, while cases and hospitalizations and
deaths are down, COVID patients now tend to be younger.  More than 1 in
3 COVID hospitalizations are people younger than age 50.   
  
But there is excellent news.  Through years of research, scientists have
found a way to safely protect us from this deadly virus.  And thanks to
the President’s leadership, we have secured enough vaccine supply for
all eligible Americans.  This week, more than 27 million doses will go
out into the country.   
  
And to make sure more people around the world have access to these
lifesaving vaccines, yesterday, the President announced that, over the
next six weeks, the U.S. will be sending 80 million doses overseas. 
This is five times more than any other country in the world has
shared.   
  
We will not use our vaccines to secure favors from other countries.  We
will work with COVAX and other partners to ensure that they are
delivered in ways that are equitable and follow the science and public
health data.    
  
You should be proud of not only the progress we are making, but also of
the contribution you and your country are making and will be making to
the globe.  We are not resting on our laurels here in the U.S.  We must
finish the job.  And we must, along with others around the globe, do
what we’ve done in the U.S.  all over the world.  
  
And, with that, over to Dr. Walensky.  
  
DR. WALENSKY:  Good morning.   Thank you.  I’m pleased to be with you
today.  Let’s begin again with the overview of the data.  
  
Yesterday, CDC reported 17,724 new cases of COVID-19 — the lowest daily
case numbers since June 2020.  
  
The seven-day average of hospital admissions is 3,500 — again, a
positive sign with another back-to-back decrease of almost 18 percent
from the prior seven-day period.  
  
And seven-day average daily deaths have also declined to a new low of
546 per day.  The last time our seven-day average was this low was in
March 2020 — essentially, since the pandemic began in large parts of the
United States.  
  
The past week has been a big week, with progress and milestones that set
us on a path out of this pandemic.  
  
We should all have cautious optimism.  Cases have continued to decrease
and have not been this low since spring of last year.  Hospital
admissions are down, deaths are down, and we are vaccinating between 1.5
million and 2 million people per day.  
  
And we are now working with governors and local leaders who are looking
at their case transmission rates and vaccination rates to make informed
decisions about how to safely get back to the activities we have lost
during this pandemic.  
  
This was never going to be easy, but we will do the hard work together
and get through this together.  
  
Last week, FDA authorized and CDC recommended use of the Pfizer vaccine
for adolescents.  In less than one week, we have vaccinated more than
600,000 12- to 15-year-olds.  
  
And in total, more than <s>4.1</s> \[3.5\] million adolescents age 12 to
17 have been vaccinated so far.  My own son was one of them.  
  
Yesterday, we had a landmark day.  As the President announced, more than
60 percent of people 18 years and older have received at least one
vaccine dose.  
  
We need to continue to ensure vaccination coverage is uniform across the
country.  This will require us to meet people where they are, to listen
to their concerns, and to help people make informed decisions about
vaccination.  
  
Today, we will publish an article in the Morbidity and Mortality Weekly
Report that compares vaccine coverage in urban and rural areas, and
communities in-between.  We looked at county-level vaccination data for
people 18 and older from 49 states and Washington, D.C.  
  
In this analysis — which looked at vaccination rates through April 10th,
2021 — COVID-19 vaccination coverage was lower in rural counties,
approximately 39 percent; compared with urban counties, approximately 46
percent.  This was true for counties across the country, across all age
groups, and among men and women.  
  
We remain committed to listening and to reaching out to communities in
every corner of the United States in our work to narrow these
differences and make sure that vaccine coverage is equitable regardless
of whether you are live in rural or urban areas.  
  
Public health staff are working nationwide to provide trusted
information via trusted messengers — meeting people where they are,
wherever they are.  
  
For example, this past weekend, CDC staff were at the Talladega
Superspeedway, where the Alabama Department of Health — with support
from the Alabama National Guard, HHS, and the CDC Foundation — partnered
together to provide COVID-19 testing and vaccinations.  
  
We have truly made tremendous strides across the country to ensure
people have access to vaccines.  And there is still a lot of work for us
to do ahead.   
  
We are more than 274 million doses administered.  If you haven’t yet
been vaccinated, perhaps you will consider being our reason to celebrate
one more.  
  
Thank you.  I’ll now turn things over to Dr. Fauci.  
  
DR. FAUCI:  Thank you very much, Dr. Walensky.  Along the line of the
advantages of getting vaccinated, I’d like to spend just a couple of
minutes talking about vaccines that we’re receiving, and the SARS-CoV-2
variants, and the recent data that is accrued over the past couple of
weeks that are very encouraging regarding protection against the known
variants.  
  
Next slide.  
  
In this paper from the New England Journal of Medicine from a couple of
days ago, the Pfizer-BioNTech vaccine showed that they neutralized
SARS-CoV-2 variants — shown in the yellow highlight — namely these
variants: the New York variant, the California variant.  The variant
that’s dominant in this country, including the E484k variant, remains
susceptible to neutralizing antibodies with only a minor diminution in
its capability.  
  
Next slide.  
  
In addition, if you look at the Moderna vaccine, again, in another study
that came out just two days ago, individuals who were vaccinated with
the mRNA, including elderly individuals, maintained binding and
functional antibodies, again, against a wide range of variants shown on
this slide.  And importantly, the capability of neutralizing and binding
lasted for greater than six months, as shown on the next slide.   
  
When you look at the durability on this slide, as you can see, the
binding to cell-surface spike and the various variants — shown with the
different colors — you had a very good sustaining of the ability to bind
up to 209 days in this study.  
  
Also, as you might notice, they hadn’t shown the 617 from India on this
slide.  But on the next slide, if you look at a number of studies,
again, that have come out literally within the last few days, on each of
them, the \[inaudible\] neutralization resistance to the 617 antibody
suggests that the current vaccines that we are all using — that we’ve
been speaking about — would be at least partially and probably quite
protective.   
  
And then on the last slide — if we go to the last slide.  Again, more
situation with regard to the B617 and the B1618 that have been
identified in India.  And on both these circumstances, you see that
these would neutralize with only a 2.5-fold diminution in titer.  Which,
as I mentioned in previous press briefings, that’s well within the
cushion effect of the capability to protect against infection and
certainly against serious disease.   
  
So, in summary, this is just another example of the scientific data
accruing and — as I’ve shown you here, literally over the last few days
— indicating another very strong reason why we should be getting
vaccinated.   
  
I’ll stop there and back to you, Andy.  
  
ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Thank you.  Dr. Nunez-Smith.  
  
DR. NUNEZ-SMITH:  Thank you so much, Andy.  And good to be with all of
you this morning.  
  
You know, the President has said from the start that equity would be at
the center of his administration’s pandemic response.  And for all of
us, achieving equity is not aspirational goal; it is mission
critical.   
  
So I’m really pleased to be able to share a few updates on our progress,
specifically in the vaccination campaign, as well as how we are working
to achieve this mission.  
  
As you’re aware, seniors were a big focus of our vaccination program
across the President’s first 100 days.  Today, well over 80 percent of
seniors have at least one shot.  This is such an important marker of
progress.  
  
And if you stop and look at health outcomes for this group, deaths are
down dramatically since January — about 80 percent across all seniors. 
And encouragingly, the data suggests a drop as well among Hispanics of
over 80 percent, and among African Americans of about 70 percent.  
  
So a big part of how we achieved this progress is through the federal
vaccine delivery channels.  And from the beginning, the federal
vaccination channels have taken an intentional approach to center on
equity.  
  
Taking a place-based approach, we recognized ZIP Code is a stronger
predictor of health than genetic code in our country.  And so, using
that to get resources to both the highest-risk and hardest-hit
communities.  
  
There are high-quality demographic data in the federal vaccination
channels, and those data are encouraging.  I want to share some with you
today.  So, for example, across all of FEMA’s federally-run sites — you
know, and all of these have been located in some of our most underserved
communities –approximately 60 percent of shots have been administered to
people of color.  And since our community health center program started,
about 70 percent of shots administered through those centers have gone
to people of color as well.  
  
One other major federal vaccine delivery channel to mention is the
Federal Pharmacy Program.  Forty percent of the over-40,000 local
pharmacies participating are located in high-risk areas.  And in the
last two weeks, over 47 percent of pharmacy doses have been administered
to people of color.  
  
To meet people where they are, the federal government has also supported
hundreds and hundreds of mobile vaccination centers, including in rural
communities.   
  
So we are making progress on equity through a very intentional focus. 
However, in the next phase of our vaccine program, we know there is much
more to do.   
  
In this phase, to ensure we are truly reaching everyone who is
unvaccinated, we will need to keep addressing structural barriers to
access.  We’ll need to focus even harder on meeting people where they
are.  And we’ll continue providing the public with the answers they need
to get vaccinated.  
  
We also need to acknowledge that many people of color only recently
became eligible because, in our country, people of color skew younger
and millions weren’t eligible until mid-April.   
  
Still, we are seeing some encouraging national trends.  Of course, there
are some data caveats, but in the past two weeks, the data suggest 51
percent of those vaccinated in the U.S. were people of color, and that’s
above the 40 percent general population representation for these
groups.  But we know we must push further.  And to do so, we have to
make sure we reach everyone in this phase.  We’re taking important steps
to advance on equity.   
  
Taking on those structural barriers, first.  Examples include
transportation and paid leave.  You’ve heard about our partnership with
Uber and Lyft to provide free rides to and from vaccination
appointments.   
  
And in recent weeks, many businesses across the country have stepped up
and answered the President’s call to offer paid time off for their
employees to get vaccinated.  And thanks to the American Rescue Plan, we
started a tax credit program to help small- and medium-sized businesses
do so.  
  
And second, we are definitely meeting people where they are, sending
vaccine doses directly to communities that have been the hardest hit,
including a greater number of vaccines to rural health clinics.  And
FEMA is shifting their focus to smaller, community-based sites and
pop-up clinics.   
  
And third, we’re making significant resource investments to support
vaccine outreach efforts so that anyone who has questions about getting
vaccinated can get the information they need.   
  
So, in closing, we know there is more work to do.  And we know equity
does not happen by default.   
  
Equity work is always hyperlocal.  Communities are the experts in what
they need.  Partnering with trusted, local community leaders is a
must.    
  
So as these efforts move forward, we remain committed, putting equity at
the center of everything we do.  And working together, we’re going to
make sure everyone, every community benefits from scientific discovery
and gets to the other side of the pandemic.   
  
So, with that, Andy, thanks.  And I’ll turn it back to you.  
  
ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Thank you.  Okay, let’s take a few
questions.   
  
MODERATOR:  Thanks, Andy.  We only have time for a few questions today,
so please keep questions to one question.  
  
Erin Billups, Spectrum News.  
  
Q    Hi.  Thank you for taking my question.  Dr. Fauci, just wondering
if you could speak to how protective the J&J vaccine is against these
variants.   
  
And, you know, there are a lot of parents wondering how soon they might
gain access to vaccines for children under 12.  In the past, you’ve
said, “The beginning of next year.”  Is that — has that timeline moved
up at all?  
  
DR. FAUCI:  Well, with regard to J&J, we don’t have as much data as I
showed you on — on the slides.  But whenever we have looked, with J&J,
it looks like they are, in fact, protective, even though there’s a
diminution.   
  
And I think the classic example of that was the study that was done
simultaneously in the United States and in South Africa with the 351, in
which the actual protection against all infection, particularly
symptomatic infection, was diminished to around 60 percent, but there
was virtually 100 percent protection against serious disease,
hospitalization, and deaths.   
  
So, I would imagine, even though we don’t have as much data with J&J as
we do with the Moderna and the Pfizer, that we would expect that it
would be comparable, but we need to get confirmation of that.  But any
data that we do have indicates that it looks like it’s the same line.  
  
And, I’m sorry — the second part of your question, would you repeat it? 
I didn’t quite get it.  
  
ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  The second part was the timing for under
— children under 12 to potentially be eligible for vaccination.  
  
DR. FAUCI:  Okay. I’m sorry.  Well, as I mentioned, it’s still on
track.  There are a couple of companies that are now doing what’s called
“age and dose de-escalation studies” starting between 12 and 9, 9 to 6,
6 to 2, and 6 months to 2 years.  It is likely and almost certain that
by the time we get to the end of this calendar year and the first
quarter of 2022, that we will have enough information regarding safety
and immunogenicity to be able to vaccinate children of any age.  
  
ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Great.  Next ques- — next question.  
  
MODERATOR:  Weijia, at CBS.  
  
Q    Hi, Kevin and everyone.  Thanks for taking my question.  It’s for
Dr. Walensky.  On Saturday, the CDC provided school guidance for the
rest of the schoolyear.  And I know you said that you’ll work over the
summer to update its guidance for the fall in addition to working on
guidance for childcare, travel, summer camps, et cetera.   
  
You guys have talked a lot about how the data and the science led you to
these new mask guidelines.  So if you already have that data and
science, what is holding up the guidelines for all these other areas? 
And can you provide any timeframe for when you’ll have them?  Thanks a
lot.  
  
DR. WALENSKY:  Thank you for that question. Yes, of course, we have
thousands of pages of guidance related to all sorts of sectors —
businesses, schools, higher-ed camps, as you noted — and we are now
working through those in the context of our new science-based guidance
that was released on Thursday.  
  
As you noted, we did place guidance on the CDC website to ensure that
people who are finishing out this schoolyear — children who will likely
not have the opportunity to be fully vaccinated before the end of the
school year.  So all of our guidance for this — this schoolyear should
be unchanged.   
  
And we are now working diligently to work through all of our active
guidance in the context of this new science related to fully vaccinated
people.  
  
ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Thank you.  Next question.  
  
MODERATOR:  Let’s go to Sheryl Stolberg at the New York Times.  
  
Q    Thank you for taking my call. I think this might be an Andy
question: Yesterday, the President said that sending doses overseas is
not enough, and he said that we’ll need a new effort, working with
pharmaceutical companies, to increase supply, particularly here in the
United States.   
  
But activists are saying that the administration needs to work with
pharmaceutical companies to transfer technology to vaccine makers
overseas so that other countries can stand up their manufacturing
operations.   
  
And I’m wondering: Does the President agree with that, and is that
something that you are working toward?  And separately, what is your
understanding of when the 60 million doses will be released — the AZ
doses?  
  
ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Right.  Thanks for the question,
Sheryl.  
  
I think the President indicated a couple things yesterday.  One is that
the U.S. must lead and will lead and is beginning to lead in the
effort.  That includes both short-term efforts, which — which is a — I
think the total of 80 million doses that will be donated across four
different vaccine platforms overseas over — between now and, I believe,
it’s over the course of July — or I should say the end of June.  
  
So that’s a — that’s an enormous commitment that I think is at least
five times as large as anybody else has made.  But we know that over the
long term, as you say, much more needs to be done.  The world needs
billions of doses.  And while the U.S. will be — play a leadership role,
we will create manufacturing;  we will export, as we’ve already begun to
do, from Pfizer and from Moderna — that we will still need global
partners across the world to do the same.   
  
So this is going to be a collaborative effort with other nations.  We
have at the top of that — the goals — are going to make sure we’re
focused on equity, and on science, and how we do these distributions.   
  
There is a lot of work to be done.  The President named Jeff Zients,
yesterday, to lead that initiative, and I’m sure you’ll be hearing more
about those efforts going forward.   
  
And we don’t have an update as of now on the timing of the AstraZeneca
doses.  We are waiting — the review from the Food and Drug
Administration.  
  
Next question, please.  
  
MODERATOR:  Yamiche, PBS.  
  
Q    Hi, thanks so much for taking my question.  The CDC has stopped —
and this is a question for Dr. Walensky, please.  The CDC has stopped
monitoring breakthrough infections among vaccinated individuals and said
it would only investigate such cases if it was the result — if it
resulted in hospitalization or death.  Can you talk a little bit about
why that’s the right strategy?  And is there any increased worry about
breakthrough infections now that everyone started to take off their
mask?  
  
DR. WALENSKY:  Thank you for that question, Yamiche.  You know, these
vaccines were studied to prevent severe illness, hospitalization, and
death.  And as we look at these breakthrough infections, those are the
ones we’re most concerned about.  Of course, we want to be able to study
them, to get the sample, to understand whether there were variants
involved.  
  
Before we started only studying breakthrough infections in the
hospitalized patients, we were studying all breakthrough infections. 
What we were starting to find is that many — most — or I should say a
large major- — a large portion of them were fully asymptomatic.  And in
fact, when we went to study them and even sequence them, there was
inadequate virus to even do so.   
  
So we are continuing to learn about breakthrough infections in the
academic world as well.  But what I would say is, as we’re bringing in
the samples to have capacity to study all that are coming in, we want to
make sure that we’re limiting it to those that are — result in severe
disease, hospitalization, and death.  
  
ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  Next question.  
  
MODERATOR:  All right.  Let’s squeeze in one more question.  Ricardo at
the AP.  
  
Q    Hello, thank you for taking my question, and it’s for Dr.
Walensky.  And can you please provide an update on the status of the
extent of the India variant in the United States?  The data on
sequencing that’s publicly available on the CDC website is from the end
of last month.  So what are the proportions that you’re finding of the
India variant, and what is the outlook for the next four weeks?  
  
DR. WALENSKY:  Thank you for that question, Ricardo.  I don’t have that
off the top of my head.  What I will tell you is that it does take some
time for us to get in the sequences, do the sequence, and do all of the
analysis, which is why it’s a bit delayed from week to week.  But I will
get back in touch with you.  I will present those data as soon as we
have — the upcoming data — as soon as we have them.  
  
ACTING ADMINISTRATOR SLAVITT:  And I’ll use that to emphasize the final
point as we close, which was Dr. Fauci’s very promising news that the
vaccines that we have available to us in the U.S. are effective against
the Indian variant.  And it is all the more reason why it’s important
for all of us who have the opportunity to get vaccinated to do so. 
Because we’ve seen the devastation that these variants can cause in
other countries, and we should not feel that this can’t happen here.   
  
So, with that, I want to thank everybody for attending and have a great
day.  
  
10:47 A.M. EDT

To view the COVID Press Briefing slides,
visit <https://www.whitehouse.gov/wp-content/uploads/2021/05/COVID-Press-Briefing_18May2021_for-transcript.pdf>
