---
category: press-briefings
date: '2021-05-24'
modified_time: 2021-05-25 08:34:15-04:00
permalink: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/press-briefings/2021/05/24/press-briefing-by-press-secretary-jen-psaki-may-24-2021/
published_time: 2021-05-24 08:11:00-04:00
title: Press Briefing by Press Secretary Jen Psaki, May 24, 2021
---
 
James S. Brady Press Briefing Room

12:05 P.M. EDT  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Hi, everyone.  Welcome to a more full briefing room. 
“Double the fun” is what I’ve been — (laughter) — saying this morning. 
Good, you laughed.  Thank you.   
  
Okay, I have a couple of items for all of you at the top.  I will say I
have a hard out at one o’clock, but I’m going to try to get to as many
people in here as humanly possible.  
  
Today, the Department of Health and Human Services announced that they
have awarded $200 million from the American Rescue Plan to support
services for survivors of domestic violence.  As we all know, the
pandemic and its economic impact significantly increased the risks of
abuse for victims of domestic violence and made it much harder for them
to seek safety and support.   
  
This money will provide critical support through the Family Violence
Prevention and Services Act program.  It will provide 296 supplemental
grant awards that will be used to fund domestic violence services in
every state and territory, as well as supplementary funding for Tribes,
state domestic violence coalitions, national resource centers,
Specialized Services for Abused Parents and Children grantees, and
national domestic violence hotlines.  
  
Also, on COVID, to start off today, I wanted to — well, to second, I
guess, today — I wanted to give you a brief update on our
whole-of-government wartime COVID-19 response.  We have gone from 6
percent of U.S. adults with one shot on the day the President took
office to more than 60 percent in just four months.   
  
We’re averaging about 24,000 cases per day, down from nearly 184,000
cases per day when we took office.  And daily death rates have dropped
nearly 85 percent since January 20th. Is there more work to be done? 
Absolutely.  We’re still at war with the virus.  
  
A couple of things that we’ve been able to implement:  Thanks to the
American Rescue Plan, we’ve been able to accelerate and improve our
COVID-19 response.  School districts across the country have been able
to leverage the resources needed to safely reopen.  Small- and
medium-sized businesses are able to pay their employees for the time
needed to take off work to get the shot and recover from it.   
  
And billions of dollars have gone to states and loca- — and local
organizations doing the boots-on-the-ground outreach around vaccine
confidence, which is, of course, a big focus for us at this point.   
  
HHS is leading regular engagement with the le- — with the COVID
Community Corps leaders to discuss best practices.  And just a few
minutes ago, we announced the President hosted a YouTube townhall with a
range of influer- — influencers with millions of followers, primarily
young people who need to understand the benefits of getting vaccinated. 
So just another example of the ways we’re trying to use all of our
resources here.  
  
Last things I would just note on this: We’ve also worked with a range of
companies to — and a range of companies have stepped up to ensure
getting the vaccine is accessible to everyone.  Big businesses from Tra-
— from Target to Tractor Supply have stepped up to ensure their
employees have access for paid time off.   
  
Companies are also leveraging cuate- — creative ways to boost
vaccination rates.  United Airlines is offering rewards like free
first-class flights and other sweepstakes to vaccinated travelers.  And
starting today, Uber and Lyft will be offering free rides to all
Americans to vaccination sites until July 4th.   
  
The last thing I just wanted to note is that, today, the President will
be joined by Senator Murkowski, Senator Sullivan, and Congressman Young
as he signs H.R. 1318, the Alaska Tourism Restoration Act.  This law
will allow large cruise ships to visit Alaska this year, a critical step
toward returning to normal in a state where 1 in 10 jobs is in the
tourism industry.   
  
This bill is an example of criti- — the critical bipartisan work that
can be done in Congress.  And the President is grateful to Senator
Murkowski and Congressman Young for their leadership in this area.   
  
And for anyone who was here the first day we took a question from
somebody remotely, this was exactly the question that he asked.  So,
here we are just a few weeks later.  
  
With that, Darlene, why don’t you kick us off?   
  
Q    Thank you.  You didn’t say when that bill signing is taking place. 
Is that today?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yes, this afternoon.  
  
Q    This afternoon.  Okay.  And then on infrastructure:  Can you say
what the White House is expecting next from Republicans after the White
House dropped the price tag last week and following that very sharp
statement from Senator Capito’s office?  What — what are you expecting
from Republicans on that front?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, the ball is in the Republicans’ court.  We put forward
a proposal on Friday that I detailed extensively here, and you all saw
the details of that proposal in the written summary that we provided
transparently to all of you.  And our reasonable counterproposal cut
$550 billion from the President’s original proposal, including to some
areas that were core priorities — continue to be core priorities to the
President — investing in infrastructure.   
  
The last counteroffer that came from the Republicans came up — just came
up $50 billion, so our concessions went 10 times as far as theirs.   
  
So the ball is in their court; we are waiting their counterproposal.  We
would welcome that.  We’re eager to engage and even have them down here
to the White House once we see that counterproposal.  
  
Q    Are you expecting the two sides to have more discussions this week,
either here or up on the Hill?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I’ll say we have remained closely in touch at a staff
level and senior staff level here with members and with their teams over
the course of the last several days.  That will continue.  And again, we
look forward to seeing their proposal.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Jen.  I want to — big picture, as the country gets ready to
mark the anniversary of George Floyd’s death, if you will.  After that —
that happened, the President called this a “wake-up call to the
nation.”  Given where things are here in Washington with police reform,
has anything actually changed since Mr. Floyd was killed as it relates
to policing and Black and brown people in this country?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, let me first say that the President is still very much
hopeful that he will be able to sign the George Floyd Justice in
Policing Act into law.  And we are, of course, very closely engaged with
a range of — with the negotiators while also leaving them room to
work.   
  
And just on Friday, the President spoke with Senator Booker.  We’ve also
seen that Senator Scott has publicly said that “The key for us is to
keep making progress.”  And we’re going to cont- — keep supporting those
efforts.   
  
You know, I would say it’s hard for me to assess from here, community to
community, where we have seen progress made.  Certainly, the death of
George Floyd — the tragic death of George Floyd has unfortunately
elevated into the public eye — thanks to the reporting for many of you —
the need to put reforms into place, the need to rebuild trust and
communities.  And we’re certainly hopeful that that activism, that
engagement will help move this legislation across the finish line.  
  
Q    And then, a look back over the weekend and over the last year: This
past weekend, there were more than a dozen mass shootings across this
country, four thousand more people shot and killed by guns in 2020
compared to the year before.  Is there a crime problem in this
country?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I would say certainly there is a guns problem, and
that’s something the President would say.  And there are communities
where local violence and community violence is an issue, and that’s one
of the reasons that we have proposed and have — now are implementing
funding for community violence prevention programs across the
country.   
  
I will say that we don’t often highlight — and you just gave me the
opportunity to — the fact that between mass shootings — mass shootings
that get a lot of attention, that we lower the flags — there are
hundreds, thousands of people who lose their lives.   
  
And that’s one of the reasons the cres- — President will continue to
advocate for the Senate passing back- — universal background checks, but
also advocate for actions in states where we have seen the greatest
level of activism over the past several years.  
  
Q    Does COVID have anything to do with the increase in numbers that
we’ve seen in the last year?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  In terms of local community violence?  It’s — it’s an
interesting question.  I’d have to ask our team to check on that.  I
know, as I started off this briefing giving an update on — that we’ve
seen statistics on domestic violence.   
  
And obviously we know that there are — the loss of life at the hands of
gun violence is often — too often.  Suicide can be domestic violence,
and we’ve seen statistics as it — as it relates to the impact on mental
health.  But I’d have to check with experts on the assessment of that.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Jen.  Are U.S-based airlines safe to fly over Belarus right
now?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Are U.S. airlines safe to fly over?  There’s not been an
update, I don’t believe, by our airline industry — or by our — those who
monitor the airline industry in the government in terms of giving new
assessments or new recommendations on that, and I’d certainly defer to
them.  
  
Q    And then kind of following up on that: In terms of actions, is the
U.S. working with NATO?  What’s the President’s approach right now —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  
  
Q    — in response to what occurred over the weekend?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  Well, first, let me say the President was briefed. 
You know, he’s been kept abreast, of course, but he was briefed this
morning during his PDB by his national security team.   
  
Our National Security Advisor, Jake Sullivan, also raised our strong
concerns on this issue — the actions of the government of Belarus — with
the Secretary — with his counterpa- — his Russian counterpart during
their <s>phone call</s> \[meeting\] this morning, which we provided a
readout of, and it was largely, of course, focused on moving the ball
forward on getting to a meeting, but he also raised this issue.   
  
We certainly — since you gave me the opportunity to do this — condemn
the Lukashenko’s regime’s ongoing harassment and arbitrary detention of
journalists simply for doing their job.   
  
This was a shocking act: diverting a flight between two EU member states
for the apparent purpose of arresting a journalist.  It constitutes a
brazen affront to international peace and security by the regime.   
  
We demand an immediate, international, transparent, and credi- —
credible investigation of this incident.   
  
We are in touch with a range of partners bilaterally and through
multilateral channels from NATO, the OSCE, U.N., EU, and others.  And we
have nothing to read out at this point, but we will continue to
coordinate closely with them.  
  
Q    And just one more quick one since we’re in kind of a critical week
on infrastructure.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  
  
Q    Does the President have a trigger — has he identified like, “All
right, this is — if I see this, we’re walking” or “If I see this, we’re
going to keep this going past Memorial Day”?  Is that — do you have that
laid out, kind of, in black and white inside the White House right
now?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I would say we’re eager to see their proposal and see what
they have to offer.  And I think it doesn’t take anything more than
simple math to know that if we came down by $550 billion and they came
up by $50 billion, they have a ways more to go.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    President Putin and President Lukashenko are very close friends and
allies.  Does the events with the Ryanair and the arrest of the
journalist — is that going to have an impact on the meeting?  And are
you prepared to announce a summit between the President and President
Putin today?  Or when do you expect to be able to do that?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I will say that, as we provided in the <s>call</s>
\[meeting\] readout, our National Security Advisor did <s>have a
call</s> \[meet\] with his counterpart, and it was an important step in
— that <s>call</s> \[meeting\] was an important step in the preparation
for a planned U.S.-Russia summit — the date and location of which we’re
not ready to announce at this point yet, and we’re still working on the
details.   
  
I will say that while our focus and the purpose of a meeting like this
will be to move to a more stable and predictable relationship with
Russia after several years where it has not been exactly that — and we
believe we can do that in a constructive manner — it does not mean that
we will hold back on areas where we have concern — as you’ve seen over
the past several weeks, where we have simultaneously issued an
invitation to have a meeting while also putting forward sanctions for
actions that we find unacceptable.  
  
And so, certainly, the fact that the national s- — our National Security
Advisor raised this issue is evidence of that, while also having a
conversation about how we can move forward our planning on the
summit.   
  
Q    On another subject, can you give us a sense of what the meeting
with the George Floyd family will look like tomorrow —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  
  
Q    — how many members and family will participate?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  
  
Q    Do you expect that to open for coverage?  What should we expect?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  I certainly can.  So, tomorrow, the President is hosting
members of the Floyd family here at the White House to mark the
anniversary of his tragic killing.  This is going to be a private
meeting.  And we certainly will also put out a statement from the
President marking the anniversary — a day that certainly impacted him
personally and impacted millions of Americans.   
  
But he wanted this meeting to be private in order to have a real
conversation and preserve that with the family.  He has a genuine
relationship with them.  And the courage and grace of this family — and
especially his daughter, Gianna — has really stuck with the President,
as you have seen him talk about, Kelly and others, many times over the
past several months.  So, he’s eager to listen to their perspectives and
hear what they have to say during this meeting.   
  
In terms of the people who are attending, it is — let’s see: Gianna —
his daughter, of course — will attend; Roxie Washington, <s>his</s>
\[Gianna’s\] mother; Bridgett Floyd, his sister; Philonise Floyd, his
brother; his — his brother’s wife, Keeta Floyd; Rodney Floyd his other —
another brother; Terrence Floyd, another brother; and Brandon Williams,
who is George Floyd’s nephew.  So, it will be a full family attending
this meeting with the President tomorrow.  
  
Q    Obviously, there’s a deadline associated that the President asked
Congress that will not be met.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  
  
Q    There’s also been deadlines related to infrastructure with Memorial
Day, wanting to see real progress.  Is the President concerned that
setting deadlines on some of these key priorities has not been enough of
a catalyst to get action?  Is that a sign of how he’s approaching this
not working or a sign of something else?  I mean, these are key
deadlines that you’ve set, and some of them are not being met.   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, first I would say, on the American Jobs Plan, our
timeline is really our own timeline, and that — is that we will be able
to assess — we will assess internally, as we go into Memorial Day
weekend, where things stand, what the next steps are, and where we go
from here.  That can take a range of formats.   
  
As it relates to the George Floyd Act, the President used the
opportunity of his joint session address to elevate a piece of
legislation.  That is working its way through with bipartisan
negotiations because he felt it was important to elevate it and
important to put out a bold and ambitious agenda.   
  
Now, it’s clear — by the negotiators and by the fact that tomorrow is
the anniversary — that’s not the timeline that the passing of the bill
will be on.  But he is encouraged that there’s ongoing progress and that
there is a sense from the negotiators that there’s a path forward.  And
he believes he can continue to press on that.   
  
Go ahead.   
  
Q    Thank you.  On the origins of COVID: There’s a new Wall Street
Journal story that three researchers at the Wuhan Institute of Virology
were hospitalized with symptoms consistent with both COVID-19 and common
seasonal illness in November of 2019.  That’s something that is
apparently known to U.S. intel officials.  So why isn’t President Biden
pushing for more access, more information to get to the bottom of
exactly what happened?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  We are, and we have repeatedly called for the WHO to — to
support an expert-driven evaluation of the pandemic’s origins that is
free from interference or politicization.   
  
Now, there were phase one revol- — results that came through.  We were
not — during that first phase of the investigation, there was not access
to data, there was not information provided.  And now we’re hopeful that
WHO can move into a more transparent, independent phase two
investigation.   
  
Q    But with 589,920 dead Americans, at what point does President Biden
say, “We don’t want to wait for the WHO.  We don’t know what they’re
doing.  This needs to be an American-led effort to get to the bottom of
what happened”?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, first of all, we need access to the underlying data
and information in order to have that investigation, and —  
  
Q    Then why not — but he talks all the time about how he’s known
President Xi for a long time, so why can’t he just call —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  And — and we need them —  
  
Q    — and ask him for that information?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I think you’re misunderstanding how this process actually
works.  An international investigation led by the World Health
Organization is something that we’ve actually been pressing for for
several months.  In coordination with a range of partners around the
world, we need that data, we need that information from the Chinese
government.  
  
What we can’t do, and what I would caution anyone doing, is leaping
ahead of an actual international process.  We don’t have enough data and
information to jump to a conclusion at this point in time.   
  
Q    But — so is there any amount of casualties from COVID in this
country that would make you want to not wait for an international effort
and just do it as a U.S.-led —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I have to say, I think the family members of the loved
ones whose lives have been lost and — deserve accurate information —
data — not the jumping to a conclusion without having the information
necessary to conclude what the origins are.  What we do share — everyone
in this country — is a desire to know how this started, where it
started, and prevent it from ever happening again.  That’s something we
all share.  
  
Go ahead.   
  
Q    Thanks, Jen.  I want to ask you first about the negotiations that
are going to be getting back underway in Vienna tomorrow over the Iran
nuclear agreement.  How would the White House assess the status of those
talks?  Doesn’t seem like there’s too much momentum toward an
agreement.  Would you agree that things are kind of grinding to
something of a halt here?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, we’re not going to predict an outcome before the fifth
round — I think, if I’m remembering the numbers specifically — have even
begun.   
  
Look, the fact that they are starting a fifth round of negotiations,
even as they are direct — indirect, is a sign that we’re continuing to
plug along on the path to diplomacy.  We continue to believe that’s
absolutely the right approach and the right steps as it relates to
preventing Iran from acquiring a nuclear weapon.  
  
We know, because we have been through this journey before, that this is
going to take some time, that there will be moments where it is
challenging and hard and there are difficult conversations.  And that is
certainly playing out.   
  
But the alternative would be not pursuing diplomatic negotiations and
accepting that we won’t have visibility or access to an understanding of
Iran’s capabilities like we have — which is — would be similar to the
situation we’ve had over the last couple of years.   
  
So we’re going to keep — we have the best diplomats on the ground. 
We’re going to keep plugging away, working with our European partners,
and seeing what we can achieve here.   
  
Q    And then just one more on infrastructure.  In addition to the
obstacles with Republicans, there is some resistance among Democrats too
— for example, raising the corporate tax rate to 28 percent.  Some
Democrats are really agitating to repeal those SALT exemptions on
taxes.   
  
So, can you lay out some steps the White House is going to take this
week, perhaps, to get back in touch with those Democratic lawmakers to
address their concerns?  Because it seems now a deal might be made among
Democrats and not necessarily with Republicans.   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, first, I would say that we’ve had 500 — about 500
engagements, if not more, at this point with members, their staffs,
their teams over the past several months wi- — on a range of issues,
including the American Jobs Plan — including Democrats.   
  
So, I know we talk a lot in here about negotiations with Capito, but I
don’t want that to confuse the notion that we are talking with Democrats
— with Leader Schumer, with Speaker Pelosi, with committee chairs — all
the time about what their priorities are, what they’d like to see in a
final package.  And that’s vitally important to these negotiations
moving forward.   
  
I will say that the President has been clear: He is quite open to a
range of mechanisms for paying for these proposals, including lower —
raising the corporate tax rate to a lesser — lesser percentage.  It’s
all about how you pay for it — right? — so it’s a numbers — a matter of
numbers.   
  
We’ve just put up — forward a proposal that lowers the cost of the
overarching package by $550 billion.  That requires less money — not a
mathematician, but that is true.  So there’s opportunity there.  What we
have not seen from the Republicans is any proposal on how to pay for it
that doesn’t raise taxes on Americans making less than $400,000 a
year.  
  
And as it relates to the SALT deduction: We’ve heard from members. 
We’re open to having those conversations.  That is not a revenue-raiser,
as we know; that costs more money.  So, that would require more ways to
pay for it.  
  
Q    But is there any specific engagements with those Democrats to read
out that might be happening this week?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  I’m — I’m happy to see if there’s more that we can provide
from our team.  I will say that we’re in constant touch with a range of
Democrats, from the Problem Solvers Caucus to — which I know are quite
focused on the SALT deduction, or a number of their members are — to
leadership, to <s>ranking members</s> \[chairs\].  But we can see if we
can get a summary for all of you.  Sure.  
  
Go ahead, Jeff.   
  
Q    Jen, just a couple follow-up questions.  First, on Russia: Is it
the White House’s belief or assessment that Russia was involved in the
Belarus decision on that plane?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  I wasn’t trying to jump to that conclusion, only to convey
that, as Kelly noted, there has been a close relationship.  And so, as
we’re discussing ways we can engage to convey our point of view on the
actions by the government of Belarus, that we’re going to do that
through many channels.  Our ambassador in Belarus has also conveyed that
directly.  
  
Q    Okay.  A follow-up on the China/Wuhan question: Can you just give
us a sense of the White House’s view of that report that the Wall Street
Journal cited?  Is it accurate?  And is — do you have any concerns that
it may have been politicized?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  I would say, in terms of the report, which was specifically
about individuals being hospitalized, we have no means of confirming
that or denying that.  I mean, it’s not a report from the United
States.   
  
What I was conveying in response to Peter’s question is that it doesn’t
mean we can draw a conclusion.  We don’t have enough information to draw
a conclusion about the origins.  There is a need to look into a range of
options.  We need data, we need an independent investigation, and that’s
exactly what we’ve been calling for.  
  
Q    I think the journal cited a U.S. intelligence report, so that would
have been a U.S. report.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I don’t have any — I don’t have anything more on a
U.S. intelligence report from here.   
  
Q    Okay.  And just lastly then on the issue of infrastructure: You’ve
cited the fact that you’ve brought — you’ve cut the proposal by $550
\[billion\].  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.   
  
Q    But a lot of that is going into other bills.  So, is it really a
cut if you’re planning on putting that money elsewhere in other
legislation?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Some of it is; not all of it is.  And we’ve certainly come
down from our proposals, and there’s also bipartisan support for a
number of those proposals to move them forward.   
  
So, at the end of the day though, we have put forward a proposal.  We’ve
put forward a way to pay for it.  We have come down from our original
proposal a great deal.  And we look forward to Republicans putting
forward their own counterproposal so we can continue to negotiate.   
  
Go ahead, Weijia.  
  
Q    Thanks, Jen.  So on the COVID report: Are you saying that the
administration did not learn about these three researchers seeking
hospital care until the Wall Street Journal reported it?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have anything more on that for you.   
  
Q    Okay.  On the Belarus plane: Does the President consider the forced
diversion a hijacking or not?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have a new definition of what happened here, other
than to convey that it was — obviously, we’re outraged, as the
international community has expressed and we have expressed as well. 
And we think this was a brazen affront to international peace and
security by the regime.   
  
At this point, we’re not legally ready to change any of the existing
language regarding the terms “hijacking” and “sanctions.”  Obviously,
there are processes to consider that.   
  
Q    Thank you.  And does the President plan to speak with President
Lukashenko about this or has he already?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  He has not spoken with him to date.  I don’t have any calls
to preview.  Our ambassador has spoken with him directly — or spoken
with the leader — the government directly, I should say, for
clarification.  
  
Q    Got it.  And just one more question: On Friday, President Biden
said he would not allow the Justice Department to seize the records of
reporters.  Has he communicated that to Attorney General Garland?  And
if so, how did he communicate that?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I don’t have any private conversations to read out for
you between the President and his attorney general.   
  
What I can convey is that the President spoke clearly that he won’t
allow the abuse of power to intimidate journalists and he is alarmed by
the reports of numerous abuses of power regarding the previous — how the
previous administration used the powers of the Department of Justice,
and thought it was right to speak out.  
  
I don’t have further specifics beyond that.  
  
Q    But without revealing any private conversations, is the Justice
Department aware that they are not to seize the records of reporters?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, again, I think the President was — always believes
that we should always be refining and improving our approaches.  The
President made those comments quite publicly, so everyone, I think, is
aware.   
  
Q    Thank you.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  
  
Go ahead, Mike.  
  
Q    Okay.  (Coughs.)  Excuse me.  Thank you, Jen.  Two quick foreign
policy questions.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  
  
Q    One on Israel.   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yep.   
  
Q    Obviously, the ceasefire seems to be, you know, holding for now,
but there’s challenges ahead, obviously, for the President, who is under
pressure — I think renewed pressure, even today, from the left — to do
more for Palestinians and to do more to protect and enhance the quality
of life for them.  
  
On the other hand, you’ve got his pledge to — to essentially rebuild
Gaza, which — you know, which is a difficult proposition at best when
Hamas is in control of Gaza.  
  
So how does he see walking that line going forward — you know, and maybe
in the context of sending Blinken to the region as well?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  Well, as we announced this morning, the President
asked Secretary Blinken to travel to the region to meet with Israeli and
Palestinian leaders, also with leaders — additional leaders in the
region to accomplish a couple things or to discuss a couple of
things.   
  
One is creating sustainable conditions for a ceasefire.  Yes, it is
holding.  We’re continuing to watch it.  But there’s a recognition we
need to continue to discuss and have conversations with our key partners
in the region, who played an instrumental role in getting to the point
we reached last Thursday, and also to discuss the path forward on
rebuilding Gaza.  
  
And as you noted, Mike, we know that won’t be easy, in part because we
want to prevent funding from going to Hamas.  We obviously don’t
communicate directly with Hamas, given they’re a terrorist organization;
a number of countries in the region do.   
  
And so the Secretary’s trip over the next couple of days will be focused
on those objectives.  And I’m certain he’ll have the opportunity to
provide a readout to the President when he returns.   
  
Q    Thanks.   
  
And then, on Russia: There was a part of the statement this morning
which mentioned “strategic stability” in the interests of — that the
United States has in working with Russia towards “strategic stability,”
which usually seems — usually refers to, sort of, nuclear cooperation
and — and the limiting of potential problems that could emerge from the
spread of nuclear technology.  
  
So is the — is that — should we see that as a signal of something that
the President particularly wants to talk to President Putin about?  And,
you know, is that also a signal that maybe you’re pretty optimistic that
this summit is actually going to happen in a matter of weeks because
you’re already at that stage where you’re talking about that kind of —
that level of agenda?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I think we — we specifically put in the readout that
the — the discussion “was an important step in the preparation for a
planned U.S.-Russia summit,” because we feel we are continuing to make
progress toward that, even if we’re not at the point where it’s final
and prepared to announce.  
  
In terms of cooperation on nuclear capabilities and threats, I will note
that this is one of the areas — even with the heightened level of
tension with Russia over the past several years — where, when the
President came into office, one of the first items on our agenda was
extending the START treaty for five years.  And obviously, now we have
five years from now for that, but also they’re an important partner as
it relates to the Iran nuclear negotiations — that were asked about
earlier — because they are a member of the P5+1.  
  
So while we’re not quite at the point of conveying what the breakdown
would be of a potential summit that’s not yet confirmed, I would say
that — that discussion and continued cooperation on nuclear stability
would, I suspect, be a part of the agenda.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Thanks, Jen.  Staying on foreign policy, a couple questions on
Venezuela.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  
  
Q    Would the administration being willing to ease sanctions on Nicolás
Maduro as a gesture of its willingness to engage and to facilitate talks
with Juan Guaidó?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I’ve not been given any indication that’s in the works.  But
obviously, we continue to consider a range of steps with, you know, our
global relationships around the world, including Venezuela.  
  
Q    Do you have — does the administration have any reason to believe
that Maduro was serious about negotiating his own exit?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I really don’t have an assessment of that.  I’m happy to
talk to our team that oversees — that handles Venezuela and see if
there’s anything more we can convey.   
  
Q    And is the President personally involved in this policy portfolio? 
What is his involvement?  And does he see a window of opportunity in
negotiations?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, the President is briefed regularly on a range of our
global engagements.  And obviously, we have a talented team that manages
relationships in the Western Hemisphere both here and at the State
Department.   
  
I don’t have an assessment from the President at this point in time.  He
takes recommendations and considers them from his national security
team.   
  
Go ahead.   
  
Q    Thank you.  What’s the President’s view on the January 6th
commission standoff?  Does he share the thinking of some who say —
comparing the day to 9/11 and that it should be treated as such, with
that kind of seriousness?  
  
And if he does, would he — would he — would he take some steps himself,
like address the nation or really get involved himself, if the
Republicans don’t go along with it and there is no bipartisan
commission?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, we’re not quite there yet.  There are ongoing
discussions and negotiations.  The President believes the attack on the
Capitol on January 6th was an unprecedented assault on our democracy. 
He’s repeatedly conveyed that to the American public and spoken — and
said that in public addresses.   
  
He doesn’t feel this is a political issue.  This is really a question of
how we secure our democracy and the rule of law.  
  
We saw 35 Republicans support — join Democrats in supporting a
commission moving forward; we’re talking about action in the Senate. 
And, certainly, we are going to continue to encourage Republican members
to do the right thing, but ultimately, it’s up to them.   
  
Q    But would he get involved if they — if they dropped the ball, in
his view?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  We’re not there yet.  We’re here every day.  So we’ll have a
discussion if that’s the point we’re at.  
  
Go ahead.   
  
Q    On — if the infrastructure bill doesn’t get any bipartisan support,
is the White House concerned at all about it impacting other areas
you’re seeking compromise — police reform being one of those areas?  
  
And I ask because Mitch McConnell said a couple of weeks ago, “100
percent of our focus is on stopping \[the\] new administration.”  So it
doesn’t seem like they’re going to be coming to the table in any real
way on a lot of these issues at this point.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, first, I would say, on police reform: There are
ongoing negotiations that both Senator Booker, Senator Scott, and
Congresswoman Bass have all conveyed are making progress, and they’re
encouraged by the tone and tenor of those conversations.  That’s a good
sign.   
  
I talked earlier about how the President is going to be signing a
bipartisan piece of legislation into law later this afternoon; Senator
Murkowski and Senator Young will be here.   
  
There are a range of opportunities to work together in a bipartisan way,
including on the Frontiers Act that has since been renamed, but you know
the one I’m talking about.   
  
So, look, I would say that our view is that investing in our nation’s
infrastructure, preparing our workforce to be more competitive in the
global community to compete with China is something where there should
be bipartisan support.  We’ve put forward a good-faith proposal.  It’s —
now the ball is in their court.   
  
But as it relates to your question about Senator McConnell and what
impact his agenda will have, you know, our view is that it’s really a
test for Republican senators.  Do they want to find common ground?  Do
they want to engage with the President about moving an agenda forward
for the American people?  Or are they going to take all of their
direction from leadership?  
  
And we see there’s opportunity to move forward in a bipartisan manner,
even with those comments made by Senator McConnell.  
  
Q    And just quickly, back to gun control: Where are the talks on gun
control?  And, more importantly, has the President talked to Senator
Toomey or any of those other Republicans that have talked about
background checks legislation, for example?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, the President has had a range of conversations with
members over the past several months and, obviously, putting in place
commonsense gun safety measures is something that has been a priority
for him throughout his career.  He helped pass the Brady Bill, he helped
get background checks in place, he helped get the Assault Weapons Ban
passed, and he will continue to encourage and push that with members
while he is President.  Top of his agenda.  
  
In terms of the status of the legislation, I would point you to
leadership in the Hou- — in the Senate to have a discussion about
that.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Most of California is already in a drought emergency.  There’s
fears that wildfire season will be earlier and longer and worse than
ever this year.  You’re — obviously, we’re about to head to FEMA for a
—  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — hurricane outlook briefing.  You’ve announced some money, but
what is the administration doing right now that could have an impact in
this current drought and looking ahead to this year’s wildfires?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, it’s a — it’s a great question, and I’d love to get
you a more detailed answer than I’m going to have in front of me in this
moment.  
  
I will say that there have been internal briefings — through the
interagency, through Cabinet-level inter- — interagency meetings and
discussions about how to address not just hurricane season, but also the
approaching season — wildfire season.   
  
In terms of exact funding and money, I would have to check with them.   
  
Let me just note, if I may, that in advance of the President’s visit to
FEMA, we are announcing, as you may have seen, 1 billion — we will
direct $1 billion for communities, states, and Tribal governments into
pre-disaster mitigation resources to prepare for extreme weather events
and other disasters.  
  
And we certainly know that part of this effort is preparing communities
for hurricanes, but also for pending fire — forest fires that we know
have impacted many parts of California.  We know where they may impact. 
And our effort now, internally, is to get ahead of that and work — use
every lever we have in government, in coordination with local and state
authorities, to make sure we’re as prepared as we possibly can be.  
  
But we will — we will see if there’s more specifics we can get you as
well.   
  
Go ahead.   
  
Q    Yes.  On the Alaska Tourism Restoration Act, one of the things that
environmental groups, like Friends of the Earth, have said is that the
coronavirus-induced pause in big-ship cruising has given the government
an opportunity to kind of reconsider the environmental impact of cruises
and modify the regulations.  Is that something that the administration
is considering?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I would say the Department of Transportation would oversee
any new regulations or recommendations for that as it relates to the
cruise industry.  So the legislation, as you know, is a positive in our
view because it helps reinvigorate an industry that accounts for a great
number of jobs in Alaska and jobs that have been on hold for the past
year, plus.  
  
Q    Well, maybe more broadly then: Is the human impact of the
environment something that has been revealed by this pandemic something
that the administration takes into account when it’s focusing on the
“Better” part of “Building Back Better”?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  The human impact in general?  In the —  
  
Q    On the environment, yes.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Of the cruise industry?  
  
Q    No, no, just in general across the board.  I think we’ve seen
evidence that the environment has flourished at times because of the
decrease in industries. That’s something that, when you’re thinking
about “Building Back Better,” is worth taking into account.   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure, I mean, I think if you look at the American Jobs Plan
and proposals the President has put forward, including his ambitious
goal of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 2035, our view is that
clean energy jobs — investing in clean energy jobs, which can help the
environment, help ensure that we are protecting our Earth for our kids
and our — and our grandchildren can be done simultaneously while
creating jobs.   
  
So I think that initiative or that viewpoint is central to how the
President sees his agenda.  And certainly, we’ve seen interesting data —
I think that you’re alluding to — over the past year, as we’ve seen a
slowdown in some industries, but our objective is ensuring that we are
investing in a sustainable way to ensure that we can create a system
that’s creating millions of jobs while also, you know, protecting our
environment over the long term.  
  
Q    And one other thing on cruises.  One of the reasons why they’ve
been able to restart cruises from Washington to Alaska is because these
cruise lines are testing people — asking for the vaccination proof from
the guests on these cruises.  That’s something that state law in Alaska
and Washington allow them to do, to abide by the CDC guidelines.   
  
Florida isn’t doing that.  Florida has passed a law that prohibits
vaccine passports.  Does the administration have a view on these kinds
of laws and the impact that they might be having on the cruise — the
cruise industry in Florida?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I don’t — we don’t.  I will say that we are not instituting
vaccine passports from a federal level.  We certainly understand that
industries will make their own decisions about how to continue their —
the work they need to do.   
  
Go ahead.   
  
Q    Just a point of clarification, I guess, on the infrastructure.  So
if Memorial Day comes and goes —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — and the White House is not any more satisfied than you are right
now with the Republican offer, is that the point in which the President
asks Senate leadership — Democratic leadership to begin
reconciliation?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  We’re not quite there.  We talk — we’re obviously in touch
and working with Senator Capito and a range — a number of Senate
leaders, committee chair — committee ranking members who she brought to
the table.  We’re looking forward to hearing a counterproposal from
them.   
  
We also, as any White House does, continue to talk — well, maybe I
shouldn’t say “any White House” — our White House does — continue to
talk with a range of members.  The senator — the President is looking
forward to seeing Senator Murkowski later this afternoon and Congressman
Young.  And we’ll continue to look for ways to move forward in a
bipartisan manner.  We’re not quite there.  We’ll do this every day, see
where we go this week.   
  
Q    And one — one more point of clarification, if I may, on the Belarus
— the Ryanair plane: Is part of this trying to get a sense of sort of
how you classify what Belarus did to — before you, sort of, figure out
what sort of approach, what sort of consequence may follow?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  There certainly is a process I mentioned in response to
Weijia’s question about classifying — right? — what it looks like from
our standpoint.  I’ll also say that an important part of our effort is
to coordinate closely with our partners around the world.  And so we’ve
been in touch with them over the last period of time, and will continue
to be as we assess next steps.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    On the mitigation funds for FEMA for wildfires —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — of about $1.7 billion.  On those monies, do they come from any —
does that take away from any of the things that have been done with
vaccination efforts — using FEMA money?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I do not believe so.  Let’s see.  I can — I can get back to
you, though, on more specifics about where the funding comes from.  But
there are — you know, obviously, we, like any administration, prepare
for managing and planning ahead for hurricane season.  So it’s a
reflection of that.  
  
Q    And one final thing on gun control?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  
  
Q    They’ve had a hard time in the Senate moving through with the bi- —
the background bills.  With the legislative calendar so packed, do you
expect anything before the August recess?  Or is there — if it goes into
next year, with an election year, it’s pretty dim.  So what kind of push
is the White House planning to make on that?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I will say that the President believes that we need to
continue to press for progress on gun safety measures.  And the fact is
the two pieces of legislation that are moving — have moved through the
House — are for universal background checks.  That’s something that’s
supported by more than 80 percent of the country.  And so, it shouldn’t
be a political issue.  I know it is; we recognize it is.   
  
But the President will continue to press for those legislation — pieces
of legislation moving forward.   
  
He also believes that there’s an opportunity for activism and progress
in states, as we’ve seen on a number of initiatives, whether it’s red
flag laws — and he took some steps to provide guidance, through DOJ, for
states to put in place red flag laws — or additional background check
legislation in states.  So there’s a number of levers that can be
pushed.   
  
You know, he — his position on gun safety measures is clear.  There has
— there’s decades of evidence for it.  And he will continue to press
Congress to move forward.  
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Yet another infrastructure negotiations question for you.   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Great.  
  
Q    You and other members of the administration have focused a lot on
the $550 million you’ve took off your offer, but a lot of the Senate
Republicans over the past weekend said the bigger problem is not
necessarily the dollar figure, but more — yet again, the broad
definition of infrastructure and just massive disagreement there.  Do
you agree with that characterization of where talks are right now?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I think that’s a little perplexing.  I mean we’re calling it
the “American Jobs Plan.”  Right?  It creates millions of jobs.  And I’m
not sure why it wouldn’t be infrastructure to rebuild and replace lead
pipes around the country, which also has the benefit of ensuring kids
have access to clean drinking water.   
  
There are a lot of areas of this bill that are maybe not in the
traditional sense, but guess what?  It’s 2021, and we need to modernize
what we think about infrastructure, what we mean by it.  And at the end
of the day, what we’re just trying to do is create millions of jobs. 
And we’re hopeful the Republicans will put forward a proposal — come —
come meet us somewhere in the middle — a counterproposal that can help
accomplish the same thing.  
  
Q    But that hope aside, have you seen any movement in getting to the
same page of how one defines “infrastructure,” over the past few
weeks?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I would say we kind of refute that as the basis of
discussion here.  At the end of the day, we — what we proposed is the
American Jobs Plan that would invest in, yes, our nation’s
infrastructure — modernize it, create millions of jobs, make us more
competitive, put people back to work — and that’s what we’re having a
discussion about.   
  
And we welcome a counteroffer from the Republicans; the ball is in their
court.  
  
Go ahead, in the back.  
  
Q    Thanks Jen.  I have a couple questions on TPS.  It was just granted
to 100,000 Haitians —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yeah.  
  
Q    — and just announced for Burma.  There’s hundreds of thousands of
Hondurans who were affected by Hurricanes Eta and Iota, and they’re also
waiting for TPS.   
  
And then also along that line, on October 4 — 4th, hundreds of thousands
Central Americans are losing that protection.  Is the President aware of
that deadline?  And is he willing to guarantee to all these hundreds of
thousands of people that have made their lives here in the U.S. that
they will be protected if Congress doesn’t do what — or pass the
protection for them?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, first, let me note that, over the weekend, the
Secretary of Homeland Security, Mayorkas, announced a new 18-month
designation of Haiti for temporary protection — protected status.  And
as you noted, there are about 100,000 Haitians who could be eligible for
that.   
  
In terms of assessing or making recommendations on TPS status, that
would really be something that would be done by the Department of
Homeland Security and the State Department.  Certainly, the President is
aware — and certainly aware of the plight of many people across the —
across the world, Hondurans and others, who have been impacted by
hurricanes, other natural disasters, and other reasons why they
certainly would be requesting this status.  But I don’t have anything to
predict for you or preview for you about additional countries being
granted status.  
  
Q    And on the ones that are losing it on October 4th — the people that
already have the TPS, it’s expiring October 4th — hundreds of
thousands.  There were families — 30 people that were just marching in
front of the White House.   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Absolutely.  And we’re certainly aware of that.  And October
4th is several months away from now, but it would be, again, a
recommendation — a decision made by the Department of Homeland Security
and the State Department.  
  
Q    And the last thing that I have is — there was a meeting here at the
White House with members of the Hispanic Caucus.  And when they came
out, they said that the President guaranteed that he would be able to
pass immigration protections for farmworkers, TPS holders, and DREAMers
through reconciliation if nothing happens before that.  When is — when —
is there a deadline on that?  Is there a time where patience just —
patience runs out, as we were talking about with infrastructure and Jobs
Plan, and the White House just decides to go alone?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I know that meeting was a couple of weeks ago, I guess
— several weeks ago, and we’ve spoken to it since then.  That — that
sounds like it was a bit of a garble of what the President actually
conveyed, because the President doesn’t feel that reconciliation is the
preferred path forward for moving these — these areas — priority areas
of immigration forward.   
  
He did talk about, in his joint address, the fact that — where there is
agreement, which there is great agreement on DREAMers and even agreement
on farmworkers — on moving this forward.  We should move things forward
in a bipartisan manner, and we’ll continue to press for that.  
  
Q    And last question: Is the Vice President planning on going to the
border?  I know she’s handling this.  Why hasn’t she been there?  Is she
planning, in the future, to go and see what’s going on firsthand?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, the Vice President is overseeing exactly the same
portfolio that the President did when he was Vice President, which is
North — the Northern Triangle, and engagement with countries in the
region about how we can work together to reduce the rate of migration
and work together to address corruption, address the root causes of why
so many people are traveling to our border.   
  
I expect she will make a trip to the Northern Triangle at some point
soon.  So that would be where she would travel, given her purview.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    On infrastructure, is the budget proposal that’s coming Friday
going to incorporate the original infrastructure plan into it or this
revised smaller one?  Or can you tell us anything about how you work
infrastructure into the budget on Friday?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Certainly, the American Jobs Plan will be a part of the
budget proposal that we put forward on Friday, but we’ll — I’m not going
to get further ahead of what that will look like.  You’ll have to tune
in on Friday.  Come back.  
  
Q    Can you tell us if this Washington Post story on Friday that said
this budget is not going to include the public option or a plan to
reduce prescription drug prices — is that correct?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, the budget will — the budget language and the budget
documents will certainly talk about the President’s priorities, which
include lowering the cost of prescription drugs and putting forward —
moving forward on a public option.   
  
But this budget proposal is about — a proposal for the next — which will
encompass a number of his proposals he has already put to date.  But,
certainly, in the — in the budget documents we put forward, it will
highlight and emphasize his priorities as President.  
  
Go ahead, in the back.   
  
Q    Thank you, Jen.  The SALT deduction mostly benefits wealthy people;
studies have shown that.  Given the concerns about income inequality in
this country, concerns about deficit spending, does President Biden
support doing away with the SALT deduction as opposed to just lifting
the cap, which some Democrats want to do?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, again, I think, Peter, as you know, it requires money,
and the President did not put it in his original proposal because he
felt there were other areas that warranted his support and would help
benefit a larger swath of the American public.   
  
But we also know that there are a number of Democrats who — and others;
Republicans too, of course — who support different iterations of this, I
think it’s fair to say, and he’s open to hearing from them and to
discussing with them.  
  
But as we’re in the midst of negotiations, it would require paying for —
for these proposals and — and that — that is not a revenue-raiser.   
  
Go ahead, in the back.  
  
Q    Thank you, Jen.  The White House hosted President Moon of South
Korea last Friday.  It was one of the first indoor large gatherings
involving foreign visitors.  So he already got vaccinated — fully
vaccinated with two doses of AstraZeneca vaccine.  Is there a list of
vaccines that the White House accepts as proof of vaccination?  Because
AstraZeneca is not approved by the FDA yet.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I don’t have anything to read out for you in terms of
specific requirements of attendees.  That’s not something we’re
requiring here, as I think I read out on Friday, for attendees for
events.  We had an event last week where we signed into law the COVID
Hate Crimes legislation.   
  
Obviously, people who are attending events at the White House would be
tested — that’s part of the requirement — but I don’t think I have
anything more for you on that.  
  
Q    And the CDC already have guidelines for — people who are in the
United States who are fully vaccinated can travel pretty freely.  What
about international travelers?  Will there be any, like, same rule
applied to international travelers?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  We continue to review — our health and medical experts
continue to review the data, and we would certainly refer to them on
when they feel safe to ease those restrictions.  And we certainly
understand the desire of many people around the world to come here and
many people here to go travel around the world.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    If I can just go back to Belarus — what does the President view as
the most concerning action taken by President Lukashenko?  Is it
arresting Mr. Protasevich on trumped-up charges, or is it diverting the
plane to land it and then to arrest him?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I mean, I think they’re both outrageous and concerning.   
  
Q    So if the U.S. believed the charges against Protasevich were
legitimate — as it did with Edward Snowden in 2013 when the Bolivian
President’s plane was forced to make an emergency landing in Vienna
because we thought Snowden might be aboard — would the U.S. still object
to the method used?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Again, I think I’ve given an extensive comment on this
specifically.  We’re working with our partners around the world.  I
don’t think I have anything more for you.  
  
Go ahead, in the back.  
  
Q    Thank you, Jen.  I have a couple of questions, one on the southern
border and another one on Colombia.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Sure.  
  
Q    Are this administration using Title 42 to expel asylum seekers
based on public health concerns?  The U.N. High Commissioner for
Refugees has called this government to swiftly end Title 42.  Is that
the intention?  And is there a timeframe that you’re working on,
specifically now that the country is rapidly opening up?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, we are still at war with the virus.  Yes, there has
been progress made, but we are still in the midst of a public health
crisis.  So, at this point, we are still implementing Title 42 and we
have not changed our policy on that.   
  
Q    There’s no timeframe?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  I don’t have any timeframe for you.  
  
Q    And, if I may —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Go ahead.  
  
Q    — is President Biden concerned that the U.S. might be violating the
Universal Declaration of Human Rights by not accepting new asylum
requests?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  In terms of from where?  
  
Q    Since the Declaration of —  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Because of Title 42?  
  
Q    No, because the U.S. is not accepting asylum requests at the
moment.  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, our objective is absolutely to get our asylum
reprocessing — processing system back up and running.  It was broken. 
It was not working for several years.  And it’s going to take some time,
but we — that is our objective and something that is a priority for the
President.  
  
Go —  
  
Q    And, if I may, on Colombia.   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Go —  
  
Q    One last question.   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Okay.  
  
Q    Thank you, Jen.  Dozens of people have lost their lives in the
ongoing protests and social unrest that has started in Colombia a month
ago.  Ten days ago, actually, 55 members of Congress, led by
Representative Jim McGovern, signed a letter to Secretary Blinken urging
the U.S. government to, quote, “clearly and unambiguously” denounce
police brutality in Colombia.  Is the White House — that means you, I
guess — ready to do so from this lectern?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, I will say we welcome announcements by the Colombian
government to investigate allegations of excessive use of force by
police.  The Colombian government, as you know, has activated a special
urgent search unit to investigate reports of missing persons, with 35
search teams deployed nationwide to follow reports received through
their 24-hour hotlines.  
  
We encourage the authorities to continue to work to locate all missing
persons as quickly as possible, and we certainly encourage those
actions.   
  
Go ahead.  
  
Q    Back to Gaza, Secretary Blinken has made clear now is not the time
to be bringing up the two-state solution.  While the U.S. has the ear of
both sides at the moment, the world has watched 11 days of fighting and
awful death toll.  When is the right time to bring up a two-state
solution?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  Well, first, I’ll say that the President, the Secretary of
State all believe that the only way to bring a lasting end to the
violence in the region is for there to be a two-state solution between
the parties.  It is going to require these parties coming together and
agreeing that this is a path they want to pursue — negotiations they
want to pursue and an outcome that they’re open to discussing.  
  
What the Secretary is there primarily on this trip is to focus on
immediate issues right now at hand, which is ensuring that we are
creating conditions with our partners in the region for a sustained
ceasefire and also discussing the path forward on rebuilding Gaza —
something that there’s a great deal of interest and support in the
international community on and there are great needs on the ground.   
  
So that’s the focus at this point in time, but we continue to support,
of course, a two-state solu- — or any negotiations for a two-state
solution.  It’s something we’ve raised already, even prior to the
conflict of the last two weeks, with the Israelis and other partners on
the ground.   
  
Q    And, if I may, what more can you tell us about the President’s
health regime?  We hear he’s lifting weights.  What sort of weights is
he lifting?  Does he have a personal trainer?  And what happened to his
Peloton bike?  (Laughter.)  Did he bring it to the to the White
House?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  I didn’t know where this was going, but I’m intrigued by
it.  I — I will say I have nothing to read out on the President’s
private exercise regime.  But I can tell you, having traveled with him a
fair amount, sometimes he’s hard to keep up with.   
  
Q    Do you have a schedule on his physical exam?   
  
MS. PSAKI:  I know you’ve asked about this before.  And it is something
we will be doing, of course, this year and providing transparent
information to all of you on.  I will see if there’s anything more
specific I can get to all of you.  
  
Q    Thanks, Jen.  
  
Q    And was he briefed on the specifics of the COVID vaccine and the
incidence of myocard- — myocarditis in some young people?  Has that been
a part of his portfolio?  
  
MS. PSAKI:  Yes, he is aware of that.  And obviously, as you know,
Kelly, our health and medical experts still continue to convey that it
is the right step for 12- to 15-year-olds to get vaccinated, that these
are limited cases, and that obviously the risks of — of contracting
COVID are certainly significant, even for people of that age.  
  
Thanks, everyone, so much.   
  
Q    What about the cat, Jen?  (Inaudible.)  
  
MS. PSAKI:  We’re — we’re waiting for a really tough news day for the
cat.  So I’ve now let you in on my secret.  (Laughter.)  
  
1:00 P.M.  EDT
