---
date: '2025-01-28'
modified_time: 2025-01-29 09:01:39-05:00
published_time: 2025-01-28 14:48:35-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/fact-sheets/2025/01/omb-q-a-regarding-memorandum-m-25-13/
tags: fact-sheets
title: OMB Q&A Regarding Memorandum M-25-13
---
 
In implementing President Trump’s Executive Orders, OMB issued guidance
requesting that agencies temporarily pause, to the extent permitted by
law, grant, loan or federal financial assistance programs that are
implicated by the President’s Executive Orders.

**Any program not implicated by the President’s Executive Orders is not
subject to the** **pause.**

The Executive Orders listed in the guidance are:

*Protecting the American People Against Invasion*

*Reevaluating and Realigning United States Foreign Aid*

*Putting America First in International Environmental Agreements*

*Unleashing American Energy*

*Ending Radical and Wasteful Government DEI Programs and Preferencing*

*Defending Women from Gender Ideology Extremism and Restoring Biological
Truth t*o *the Federal Government*

*Enforcing the Hyde Amendment*

Any program that provides direct benefits to individuals is not subject
to the pause.

The guidance establishes a process for agencies to work with OMB to
determine quickly whether any program is inconsistent with the
President’s Executive Orders. A pause could be as short as day. In fact,
OMB has worked with agencies and has already approved many programs to
continue even before the pause has gone into effect.

Any payment required by law to be paid will be paid without interruption
or delay.

**Q: Is this a freeze on all Federal financial assistance?**

A: No, the pause does not apply across-the-board. It is expressly
limited to programs, projects, and activities implicated by the
President’s Executive Orders, such as ending DEI, the green new deal,
and funding nongovernmental organizations that undermine the national
interest.

**Q: Is this a freeze on benefits to Americans like SNAP or student
loans?**

A: No, any program that provides direct benefits to Americans is
explicitly excluded from the pause and exempted from this review
process. In addition to Social Security and Medicare, already explicitly
excluded in the guidance, mandatory programs like Medicaid and SNAP will
continue without pause.Funds for small businesses, farmers, Pell grants,
Head Start, rental assistance, and other similar programs will not be
paused. If agencies are concerned that these programs may implicate the
President’s Executive Orders, they should consult OMB to begin to unwind
these objectionable policies without a pause in the payments.

**Q: Is the pause of federal financial assistance an impoundment?**

**A:** No, it is not an impoundment under the Impoundment Control Act.
It is a temporary pause to give agencies time to ensure that financial
assistance conforms to the policies set out in the President’s Executive
Orders, to the extent permitted by law. Temporary pauses are a necessary
part of program implementation that have been ordered by past presidents
to ensure that programs are being executed and funds spent in accordance
with a new President’s policies and do not constitute impoundments.

**Q: Why was this pause necessary?**

**A:** To act as faithful stewards of taxpayer money, new
administrations must review federal programs to ensure that they are
being executed in accordance with the law and the new President’s
policies.
