---
date: '2023-06-07'
published_time: 2023-06-07 18:14:38-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/06/07/message-to-the-house-of-representatives-presidents-veto-of-h-j-res-45/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "Message to the House of Representatives \u2014 President\u2019s Veto of H.J.\
  \ Res.\_45"
---
 
TO THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES:

   I am returning herewith without my approval H.J. Res. 45,
a resolution that would disapprove of the Department of Education’s rule
relating to “Waivers and Modifications of Federal Student Loans.”

   Since Day One, my Administration has been fighting to make college
cheaper and the student loan system more manageable for borrowers.  My
Administration has championed the largest increase to Pell Grants in the
last decade — a combined increase of $900 to the maximum award for
students over the last 2 years — and has a plan to double the maximum
Pell Grant by 2029 to nearly $13,000.  This means more money in
students’ pockets to pay for college.  To help individuals who had to
borrow to go to college, my Administration has been building a student
loan system that works.  The Department of Education has proposed the
most generous repayment plan ever, which will cut undergraduate loan
payments in half.  It has also reformed the Public Service Loan
Forgiveness program to make it easier for hundreds of thousands of
public service employees to get the debt relief they deserve.

   The pandemic was devastating for families across the Nation.  To give
borrowers the essential relief they need as they recover from the
economic strains associated with the COVID-19 pandemic, the Department
of Education created a program to provide up to $10,000 in debt relief —
and up to $20,000 for Pell Grant recipients — reaching more than 40
million hard-working Americans.  Nearly 90 percent of this relief would
go to Americans earning less than $75,000 per year, and no relief would
go to any individual or household in the top 5 percent of incomes.

   The demand for this relief is undeniable.  In less than 4 weeks —
during the period when the student debt relief application was available
— 26 million people applied or were deemed automatically eligible for
relief.  At least 16 million of those borrowers could have received debt
relief already if it were not for meritless lawsuits waged by opponents
of this program.

   The Department of Education’s action is based on decades-old
authority, granted by the Congress.  Multiple administrations over the
last two decades have used this authority, following the same procedures
as my Administration, to protect borrowers from the effects of national
emergencies and military deployments.  The Department of Education’s
exercise of this authority has never previously been subject to the
Congressional Review Act.

   It is a shame for working families across the country that lawmakers
continue to pursue this unprecedented attempt to deny critical relief to
millions of their own constituents, even as several of these same
lawmakers have had tens of thousands of dollars of their own business
loans forgiven by the Federal Government.

   I remain committed to continuing to make college affordable and
providing this critical relief to borrowers as they work to recover from
a once-in-a-century pandemic.

      Therefore, I am vetoing this resolution.  
  
                              

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.  
  

THE WHITE HOUSE,  
    June 7, 2023.
