---
date: '2023-06-09'
modified_time: 2023-06-09 18:35:31-04:00
published_time: 2023-06-09 18:35:30-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/06/09/executive-order-on-advancing-economic-security-for-military-and-veteran-spouses-military-caregivers-and-survivors/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "Executive Order on Advancing Economic Security for Military and Veteran Spouses,\
  \ Military Caregivers, and\_Survivors"
---
 
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered as follows: 

     Section 1.  Policy.  Military-connected families are American
working families.  Military and veteran families, military caregivers,
and survivors face many of the same challenges as their neighbors, but
they can carry the additional strains of multiple deployments; frequent
moves with little control over their geographic location; caring for
wounded, ill, and injured service members or veterans; time apart for
training and other demands of military life; and more.  The unique
demands of military life continue to affect veteran families, military
caregivers, and survivors for years after a service member’s time in
uniform.

    Military families, like their civilian counterparts, increasingly
look to rely upon dual incomes; however, the 21 percent unemployment
rate experienced by active-duty military spouses in the workforce makes
that a difficult goal to achieve and maintain.  Nearly one in five
military families cite challenges with spousal employment as a reason
when considering leaving active-duty service.  The challenges associated
with the military lifestyle, including permanent change-of-station moves
every 2 to 3 years on average for active-duty families, mean that
military spouses often struggle to find options for work that are
portable or allow them to build a sustainable long-term career.
 Employment challenges are not limited to active-duty spouses, as
Reserve and National Guard spouses must balance their careers against
the unpredictable nature of the service member’s schedule, activations,
and deployments.  Employment challenges can continue to affect the
employability and career trajectory of veteran spouses well after a
service member leaves the service.

   Recognizing the importance of military family economic well-being to
the all-volunteer force, the Federal Government employs more than 16,000
military, veteran, and surviving spouses.  As the Nation’s largest
employer, we must be a model for diversity, equity, inclusion, and
accessibility, and, in doing so, we recognize that military spouses are
an underserved community.  Whether they choose public service,
employment in the private sector, or entrepreneurship through building a
small business, it is the policy of my Administration to advance
economic opportunity for military spouses.  My Administration also
recognizes the imperative of promoting economic security for military
spouses — the vast majority of whom are women — under the National
Strategy on Gender Equity and Equality.

   In addition, my Administration understands that access to
high-quality, affordable child care is a necessity for working families,
and a military readiness issue.  While the Department of Defense offers
the largest employer-sponsored child care network in the country,
military families still face challenges related to capacity and
non-traditional work schedules.  Many military families seeking care
outside of the gates of our military bases struggle to find care they
can afford.  Because access to child care should not be an impediment to
service, I have directed the Secretary of Defense to ensure the
Fourteenth Quadrennial Review of Military Compensation, undertaken in
January 2023, includes an assessment of child care access and cost in
its review of military benefits and pay, along with consideration of
factors such as the challenge of military spouse unemployment, frequent
military moves, and periods of geographic separation between service
members and their spouses, including dual military couples.

   Military spouses can also be service members themselves, wearing the
Nation’s uniform in our Active Components, National Guard, or Reserve
forces, with a higher percentage of women service members in a dual
military marriage than their male counterparts.  As we recognize the
75th anniversary of women’s integration into the Armed Forces, my
Administration is committed to removing barriers to women’s ability to
serve, including difficulty in accessing child care, which poses a
challenge for both spouses, but disproportionately affects retention for
women, especially women in dual military couples, and can play a factor
in women’s early separation from the Armed Forces.  

   As we commemorate the 50th anniversary of the all-volunteer force, we
must appreciate now more than ever that the commitment and resilience of
military-connected families are essential to the recruitment, retention,
and readiness of our Armed Forces and the enduring strength of our
Nation.  Meeting the economic, social, and emotional needs of our
military and veteran families, military caregivers, and survivors is a
national security imperative.  In times of peace and of war, military
and veteran families, military caregivers, and survivors have sacrificed
much for our country, answering the call to duty time and again.  We owe
them nothing less than the dignity of a meaningful career and the
opportunity to build economic security for their families.

Sec. 2.  Government-wide Military and Veteran Spouse, Military
Caregiver, and Survivor Hiring and Retention Strategic Plan and
Training.  Given the considerable Federal footprint around many military
installations, military spouses are often interested in pursuing careers
in the Federal civil service.  To ensure that the Federal Government is
an employer of choice for military and veteran spouses, military
caregivers, and survivors, executive departments and agencies (agencies)
must strengthen their ability to recruit, hire, develop, promote, and
retain this skilled and diverse pool of talent.  To that end:

  (a)  The Director of the Office of Personnel Management (OPM) and the
Deputy Director for Management of the Office of Management and Budget,
in consultation with the Secretary of State, the Secretary of Defense,
the Secretary of Labor, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, and the
Secretary of Homeland Security, shall develop and issue a
Government-wide Military and Veteran Spouse, Military Caregiver, and
Survivor Hiring and Retention Strategic Plan (Military-Connected Plan)
within 180 days of the date of this order that builds upon the
Government-wide plans required by Executive Order 13583 of August 18,
2011 (Establishing a Coordinated Government-Wide Initiative to Promote
Diversity and Inclusion in the Federal Workforce), and Executive Order
14035 of June 25, 2021 (Diversity, Equity, Inclusion, and Accessibility
in the Federal Workforce).  The Military-Connected Plan shall be updated
as appropriate and at a minimum every 4 years.  The Military-Connected
Plan shall:

             (i)    define measures of success for the recruitment,
hiring, and retention of military and veteran spouses, military
caregivers, and survivors based on leading policies and practices in the
public, private, and nonprofit sectors;

             (ii)   include plans for OPM to consult with the Department
of Defense and the Department of Homeland Security in developing
enhanced support for the retention of military spouses in Federal
careers, consistent with merit system principles as defined in 5 U.S.C.
2301;

             (iii)  consistent with merit system principles, identify
strategies — including pursuing development of a legislative proposal,
as appropriate — to eliminate, where applicable, barriers to the
employment of military and veteran spouses, military caregivers, and
survivors in the Federal workforce, including with respect to
recruitment; hiring, including an assessment of whether to pursue
expanded eligibility for derivative preference; promotion; retention;
performance evaluations and awards; professional development programs;
mentoring programs or sponsorship initiatives; internship, fellowship,
and registered apprenticeship programs; employee resource group and
affinity group programs; and training, learning, and onboarding
programs;

             (iv)   identify strategies for marketing the talent,
experience, and diversity of military and veteran spouses, military
caregivers, and survivors to agencies; and

             (v)    develop a data-driven approach to increasing
transparency and accountability in hiring and retention — including by
encouraging agencies to set goals for hiring under the Military Spouse
Noncompetitive Appointment Authority established by 5 U.S.C. 3330d and
hiring individuals eligible for derivative preference, to use data
internally to improve performance, and to use data to publicly report on
progress — which would build upon, as appropriate, the reporting
requirements of Executive Order 13832 of May 9, 2018 (Enhancing
Noncompetitive Civil Service Appointments of Military Spouses).  
  
   (b)  Beginning with Fiscal Year 2025, the Director of OPM shall
revise the title of the “Employment of Veterans in the Federal Executive
Branch” annual report to “Employment of Veterans and Military-Connected
Spouses and Survivors in the Federal Executive Branch,” and shall
include in the report the existing data previously reported in the
“Employment of Veterans in the Federal Executive Branch” report,
including statistics on the hiring of military and veteran spouses and
survivors in a manner that allows for comparison and analysis of the
distinct populations and hiring mechanisms.  
  
   (c)  The Secretary of Veterans Affairs and the Director of OPM shall
collaborate on opportunities to better share Federal employee survey
data to enable analysis and reporting relevant to the employment of
military and veteran spouses and survivors.

   (d)  In collaboration with the Director of OPM and consistent with 5
U.S.C. 4103, agencies shall provide annual training for agency human
resources personnel and hiring managers concerning the employment of
military and veteran spouses, military caregivers, and survivors,
including training on special authorities for the hiring of military
spouses and survivors, and the provision of tools to build the agencies’
capacity to make use of applicable hiring authorities, including
distribution of the Joining Forces military spouse hiring toolkit, which
OPM shall publish on the FedsHireVets website.

   (e)  The Office of Science and Technology Policy (OSTP) National
Science and Technology Council Subcommittee on Equitable Data, as
designated by Executive Order 14091 of February 16, 2023 (Further
Advancing Racial Equity and Support for Underserved Communities Through
the Federal Government), shall develop recommendations on ways in which
agencies can expand Federal datasets to track outcomes for military and
veteran spouses, military caregivers, and survivors.  Such
recommendations shall be included in the Director of OSTP’s reports to
the White House Steering Committee on Equity under section 9 of
Executive Order 14091.

   (f)  The Secretaries of Defense, Labor, Veterans Affairs, and
Homeland Security shall work together through existing interagency
collaborations, including the Transition Assistance Program, to increase
training and employment opportunities for military spouses in the
workforce through the transition to veteran spouse status.

Sec. 3.  Updates to Federal Training and Hiring Authorities.  To
strengthen the ability of the Federal Government to train, develop, and
hire military and veteran spouses and survivors:

   (a)  Beginning with Fiscal Year 2025, agencies shall list the
Military Spouse Noncompetitive Appointment Authority established by 5
U.S.C. 3330d when soliciting applications from outside of their
workforce for positions announced on USAJOBS or other job posting sites.
 This requirement applies when using merit promotion procedures to fill
competitive service positions.

   (b)  The Secretary of Labor shall examine the eligibility of military
and veteran spouses for programs that provide education, job training,
employment services, employer engagement, and other relevant programs,
and, as appropriate, shall work to reduce barriers that military and
veteran spouses may face in accessing those programs.  
  
   (c)  The Director of OPM shall examine the eligibility criteria for
the Recent Graduates Program established by section 2 of Executive Order
13562 of December 27, 2010 (Recruiting and Hiring Students and Recent
Graduates), and, as appropriate, including by recommending Presidential
action as necessary, shall work to reduce barriers that military spouses
may face in accessing the Program.

Sec. 4.  Retention of Military and Veteran Spouses and Military
Caregivers, Including Those Employed by the Federal Government.  In
order to support military and veteran spouses and military caregivers,
including those who are employed by the Federal Government:

  (a)  The Director of OPM shall issue guidance to agencies:

             (i)    reinforcing existing telework and remote work
flexibility options pursuant to 5 U.S.C. 6502 for Federal employees,
including military spouses and military caregivers, and encouraging
agency leaders to consider these as options for retaining Federal
employee military spouses and military caregivers;  
  
             (ii)   encouraging agencies to support the policies set
forth in section 1 of this order by granting up to 5 days of
administrative leave to military spouses during a geographic relocation
occurring as directed by a service member’s orders; and

             (iii)  encouraging agencies to collaborate so that a
military spouse or military caregiver Federal employee may be placed in
another Federal agency position when arrangements to retain a military
spouse or military caregiver — including following changes to support
continuity of care or relocation due to permanent change-of-station
orders for the active-duty service member — are unavailable to allow
them to continue in their existing position.

   (b)  The Secretary of State and the Secretary of Defense, when
reevaluating or entering agreements with host nations, shall consider
work options for military spouses who are performing remote work for
non-Department of Defense entities, so as to reduce barriers for
military spouses seeking to continue their private sector- or
self-employment. 

   (c)  The Secretary of Defense shall coordinate with the heads of the
Military Departments, and the Secretary of Homeland Security shall
coordinate with the Commandant of the United States Coast Guard, to
amend their respective legal assistance instructions to allow for
consultation, advice, and assistance to military families on Status of
Forces Agreements and other agreements with host nations affecting
family employment, so as to provide support for military spouses
navigating complex employment requirements related to working remotely
while their active-duty service member spouse is stationed overseas. 
Those amendments shall specify that legal assistance is limited to the
personal civil legal affairs of military dependents affected by
employment restrictions related to a Status of Forces Agreement or other
host nation agreement, and does not extend to their employers or the
establishment, management, or taxation of small business organizations.

Sec. 5.  Domestic Employees Teleworking Overseas Policy.  In order to
ensure that military spouses are able to equitably and reasonably access
opportunities for remote work in their Federal jobs when their
service-member spouse receives orders overseas, promote togetherness for
military families, and enable agencies that employ military spouses —
resilient and talented civil servants — to retain them, the following
improvements shall be made to the Domestic Employees Teleworking
Overseas (DETO) program implemented by agencies pursuant to the National
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2022 (Public Law 117-81):

    (a)  The Secretary of State and the Secretary of Defense shall enter
into a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) to address residential security
and safety requirements for military spouses employed by the Federal
Government and working overseas through the DETO program.  The MOU shall
be communicated to sponsoring agencies, and the Secretaries of State and
Defense shall develop appropriate guidance to communicate the provisions
of the MOU to military spouses who are civilian employees of the Federal
Government.

   (b)  To promote consistency and effective coordination in the
implementation of the DETO program across the executive branch, agencies
shall:  
  
             (i)    develop common standards for DETO policies,
including identification of points of contact and creation of guidelines
to ensure that such policies are communicated and advertised in a manner
accessible to military spouse employees;

             (ii)   establish a DETO application system and develop a
method to track DETO applications received and processed, as well as
application processing timelines; and

             (iii)  establish time frames for DETO application
processing and approvals, considering the time-sensitive nature of
decisions for applications by military spouses due to permanent
change-of-station moves and other factors unique to military families.

Sec. 6.  Expanding Support for Military and Veteran Spouse
Entrepreneurs.  Many military spouses start their own businesses because
of a need for flexibility or inability to find or maintain other
employment.  When military spouses must discontinue their businesses,
however, they often cite military moves, rather than lack of
profitability, as the reason.  To support military spouse entrepreneurs
in starting and sustaining their businesses, the Administrator of the
Small Business Administration shall:

   (a)  expand access to resources tailored to military and veteran
spouses who are interested in starting or growing a small business,
including guidance to help military spouses with relocating a business
following a military move; and

   (b)  evaluate access to capital gaps for military spouse
entrepreneurs.

Sec. 7.  Child Care for Military Families.  The Department of Defense
operates the largest employer-sponsored child care program in the United
States in order to provide military families with support that is
essential to overall mission readiness, retention, and recruitment.  To
build on the existing support and ensure that military families have
access to affordable, high-quality child care allowing both the service
member and the spouse to pursue professional opportunities, the
Secretary of Defense shall:

   (a)  in coordination with the Director of OPM, establish flexible
spending accounts for the care of military dependents, available to
military personnel no later than January 1, 2024; and

   (b)  expand pathways for military spouses to provide certified,
home-based child care on military installations, including by providing
them with support in seeking licensure and achieving government-mandated
quality benchmarks.

Sec. 8.  Definitions.  For the purposes of this order:

   (a)  The term “active duty” has the meaning set forth in 10 U.S.C.
101(d)(1), except that the term also includes “active Guard and Reserve
duty,” as defined in 10 U.S.C. 101(d)(6)(a).

   (b)  The term “agency” means any authority of the United States that
is an “agency” under 44 U.S.C. 3502(1), other than those considered to
be independent regulatory agencies, as defined in 44 U.S.C. 3502(5).

   (c)  The term “derivative preference” means those who are “preference
eligible,” as defined in 5 U.S.C. 2108(3), because they are eligible
spouses and parents who use a veteran’s preference when the veteran is
unable to do so.

   (d)  The term “military caregiver” means the spouse, child, parent,
or next of kin of a veteran who is the primary caregiver for a veteran
undergoing medical treatment, recuperation, or therapy for a serious
injury or illness who was a member of the Armed Forces (including a
member of the National Guard or Reserves) and who was discharged or
released under conditions other than dishonorable.

   (e)  The term “military spouse” means an individual married to a
member of the Armed Forces who is performing active duty.

   (f)  The term “survivor” means the spouse, child, parent, or next of
kin of a service member who died while on active duty, or from a
service-connected disability following discharge or release under
conditions other than dishonorable.

   (g) The term “veteran spouse” means an individual married to a
retired or separated member of the Armed Forces who was discharged or
released under conditions other than dishonorable, so long as the
marriage occurred prior to or during the service member’s active
service.

Sec. 9.  General Provisions.  (a)  Nothing in this order shall be
construed to impair or otherwise affect:

             (i)   the authority granted by law to an executive
department or agency, or the head thereof; or  
  
             (ii)  the functions of the Director of the Office of
Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or
legislative proposals.

   (b)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law
and subject to the availability of appropriations.

   (c)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right or
benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by
any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.  

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.

  
THE WHITE HOUSE,  
June 9, 2023.
