---
date: '2023-06-16'
published_time: 2023-06-16 13:19:10-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/06/16/a-proclamation-on-fathers-day-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Father\u2019s Day,\_2023"
---
 
    On Father’s Day, we celebrate the dads, stepdads, grandfathers, and
father figures in our lives, who shape who we are and set an example for
the kind of people we aspire to be.  They sacrifice so we can succeed,
they mentor us so we can reach our potential, and they believe in us so
we can learn to believe in ourselves.  Across America, fathers work
tirelessly every day to build a better future for their families,
devoting their lives to ensuring that their children are safe,
supported, and empowered to pursue their dreams.  Today, we honor these
men who have showered us with guidance, encouragement, and unconditional
love.

     Fathers are critical to raising the next generation and to teaching
their daughters and sons about the values that matter most.  They
demonstrate responsible fatherhood and foster healthy perspectives on
masculinity.  Along the way, dads help their children navigate life’s
most difficult challenges, nurture their confidence and character, and
give them the tools to develop a moral compass.

     My dad, Joseph Robinette Biden Sr., taught me values early in life
that continue to inspire me today.  I can still hear his voice at the
dinner table explaining that everyone deserves to be treated with
dignity and respect.  I remember him saying that the measure of a person
is not how many times or how hard we get knocked down but how fast we
get back up.  And he taught me that, above all, family is the beginning,
middle, and end — a lesson I have passed down to my children and
grandchildren.

     My father also used to say that a job is about a lot more than just
a paycheck — it’s about dignity, pride, a sense of self-worth, and your
ability to look your child in the eye and tell them everything will be
okay.  That idea is at the heart of my commitment to building our
economy from the bottom up and the middle out, with millions of
good-paying jobs in manufacturing, construction, clean energy, and
more.  It has also guided our work to cut the cost of lifesaving
prescription drugs and slash health insurance premiums, so no parent has
to lie awake at night wondering how they can afford to pay their monthly
bills and provide for their children.  And as I said in my 2023 State of
the Union Address, we will ensure that we protect Social Security and
Medicare so that our fathers and grandfathers can age with dignity.

     But we still have much more work to do, such as delivering
affordable child care, paid family leave, and improved home care for
seniors.  I am confident that our Nation can come together to build a
brighter future for all of our families.

     As we honor the fathers and father figures in our lives, we also
know this day falls hard on children without their fathers and fathers
without their children.  It is hard seeing that empty chair at the
kitchen table; experiencing birthdays, anniversaries, and holidays
without them; and remembering everyday things — the small things, the
details that matter the most.  We keep in our prayers all those who mark
today with a hole in their heart, missing a father figure they love —
whether by accident, illness, or another cruel twist of fate.  And as we
pray, we remember that no matter where they are, our dads’ love for us
and our love for them is a gift that never goes away.  It will always be
with us.

     Today, as we express our gratitude for the men who have enriched
our lives, let us remember that family is life’s greatest blessing and
responsibility; that we owe it to ourselves and our loved ones to make
the most of our precious time together; and that our Nation would not be
where it is today without our beloved fathers and father figures.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, in accordance with a joint resolution of the Congress
approved April 24, 1972, as amended (36 U.S.C. 109), do hereby proclaim
June 18, 2023, as Father’s Day.  I direct the appropriate officials of
the Government to display the flag of the United States on all
Government buildings on this day.  Let us honor our fathers, living and
deceased, and show them the love and gratitude they deserve.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this sixteenth day
of June, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-three, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-seventh.  

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
