---
date: '2023-06-09'
published_time: 2023-06-09 11:26:37-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/06/09/a-proclamation-on-flag-day-and-national-flag-week-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Flag Day and National Flag Week,\_2023"
---
 
On Flag Day and during National Flag Week, we celebrate the enduring
strength and promise that the stars and stripes on our flag have always
embodied as they fly proudly across our country and around the world.

Our flag tells America’s story — the story of an ever-evolving Nation.
 Thirteen colonies joining together and winning independence, forming a
great Union of States that has grown bigger and more just across
generations — a place where everyone is entitled to certain unalienable
rights, among them life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness.  It is
an emblem of our strength at home and abroad, synonymous with America as
a force for good in the world.  It has flown on battlefields since the
Revolution and reminded allies and adversaries throughout the last
century that the darkness of autocracy is no match for the flame of
liberty.  It flies over grand celebratory monuments, and it accompanies
headstones at sacred places like Arlington National Cemetery, where Jill
and I recently paid tribute to the hundreds of thousands of brave
Americans who made the ultimate sacrifice for our freedom and future,
giving their lives so our Nation might live.  We honor their unbending
sense of duty and courage and remember their faith that we would be
worthy of their sacrifice.

Old Glory stands for hope, pride, and progress.  It is stamped on our
exports, hung from booming factories, and painted on spacecraft that
travel high above our skies — a symbol of the American spirit that keeps
innovating, building, and breaking boundaries.  It waves for justice and
equality.  It adorns courtrooms and classrooms.  And it presides over
free and fair elections at polling places across the Nation, reinforcing
the promise of our democracy.

Our flag embodies the very soul of America — a soul that has endured
because of sacrifices made by generations of Americans, whose mission we
must keep alive to ensure democracy endures.  The Stars and Stripes
belongs to all Americans and reminds us that much more unites us than
divides us.  It flies proudly in small town squares, on downtown
skyscrapers, in high school gyms, in our biggest sports stadiums, and on
our military bases.  Wherever our flag is, it stands for freedom,
justice, and opportunity; it is a beacon of democracy and the
fundamental American promise that everyone is created equal and united
in pursuit of a more perfect Union.

To commemorate the adoption of our flag in 1777, the Congress, by joint
resolution approved on August 3, 1949, as amended (63 Stat. 492),
designated June 14 of each year as “Flag Day” and requested the
President issue an annual proclamation calling for its observance and
for the display of the flag of the United States on all Federal
Government buildings.  The Congress also requested, by joint resolution
approved June 9, 1966, as amended (80 Stat. 194), that the President
issue annually a proclamation designating the week in which June 14
occurs as “National Flag Week” and calling upon all citizens of the
United States to display the flag during that week.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, do hereby proclaim June 14, 2023, as Flag Day, and the week
starting June 11, 2023, as National Flag Week.  I direct the appropriate
officials to display the flag on all Federal Government buildings during
this week, and I urge all Americans to observe Flag Day and National
Flag Week by displaying the flag and honoring all of our brave service
members and revering those who gave their last full measure of devotion
defending our freedoms.  I encourage the people of the United States to
observe with pride and all due ceremony those days from Flag Day through
Independence Day, set aside by the Congress (89 Stat. 211), as a time to
honor the American spirit, to celebrate our history and the foundational
values we strive to uphold, and to publicly recite the Pledge of
Allegiance to the Flag of the United States of America.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this ninth day of
June, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-three, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-seventh.

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
