---
date: '2023-06-23'
published_time: 2023-06-23 13:18:41-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/06/23/executive-order-on-strengthening-access-to-affordable-high-quality-contraception-and-family-planning-services/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "Executive Order on Strengthening Access to Affordable, High-Quality Contraception\
  \ and Family Planning\_Services"
---
 
     By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and
the laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered as
follows:  
  
     Section 1.  Policy.  Women should have access to the healthcare
they need, including contraception and family planning services.  Access
to contraception is essential to ensuring that all people have control
over personal decisions about their own health, lives, and families.
 High-quality contraception improves health outcomes, advances economic
stability, and promotes women’s overall well-being.  Contraception
access is linked to improved maternal and child health, expanded
educational and professional opportunities, and higher lifetime
earnings.    
  
     Through new requirements for private health coverage and expanded
access to Medicaid, the Affordable Care Act extended access to
affordable contraception to millions of women, helping them save
billions of dollars on birth control.  Yet access to high-quality
contraception continues to vary based on income, location, health
insurance coverage, and the availability of healthcare providers.
 Millions of people continue to face barriers to obtaining the
contraception they need even as access has become more critical in the
wake of the Supreme Court’s decision in *Dobbs v. Jackson Women’s Health
Organization*, 142 S. Ct. 2228 (2022), to overturn *Roe v. Wade*, 410
U.S. 113 (1973).  
  
     Given that the Supreme Court overruled *Roe*, which rested on the
fundamental right to privacy in matters of health, bodily autonomy, and
family, it has never been more important to protect and expand access to
family planning services.  *Dobbs *has already had, and will continue to
have, devastating implications for women’s health.  In States with laws
that restrict access to abortion, health clinics that provide
contraception and other essential health services have shuttered,
eliminating critical points of care.  Some State officials have adopted
policies interfering with access to emergency contraception, including
for vulnerable populations.  Such policies further threaten women’s
ability to make decisions about their own bodies, families, and futures.
 These threats persist despite decades of Supreme Court precedent,
beginning with *Griswold v. Connecticut*, 381 U.S. 479 (1965), and
*Eisenstadt v. Baird*, 405 U.S. 438 (1972), affirming the right to
contraception.  Moreover, an overwhelming majority of Americans support
access to contraception.  
  
     In the wake of the Supreme Court’s decision in *Dobbs*, I issued
Executive Order 14076 of July 8, 2022 (Protecting Access to Reproductive
Healthcare Services), and Executive Order 14079 of August 3, 2022
(Securing Access to Reproductive and Other Healthcare Services), to
direct my Administration to take action to protect access to
reproductive healthcare services, including contraception and abortion.
 In Executive Order 14076, I directed the Secretary of Health and Human
Services and the Director of the Gender Policy Council to establish an
Interagency Task Force on Reproductive Healthcare Access to coordinate
these efforts across my Administration.  Consistent with these Executive
Orders and other applicable authorities, executive departments and
agencies have taken numerous steps to protect and strengthen access to
contraception, including:  
  
     (a)  issuing guidance and convening sponsors of employee benefit
plans and health insurers to clarify contraception coverage requirements
under the Affordable Care Act;  
  
     (b)  expanding walk-in contraceptive care services for active duty
service members and other Military Health System beneficiaries;  
  
     (c)  issuing a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking to improve access to
affordable contraception for certain dependents of veterans;  
  
     (d)  providing additional funding to bolster training, develop and
expand telehealth infrastructure and capacity, and provide technical
assistance for clinics funded under Title X of the Public Health Service
Act (42 U.S.C. 300 *et seq.*) (Title X);  
  
     (e)  strengthening the inclusion of family planning providers in
insurance networks for qualified health plans under the Affordable Care
Act;  
  
     (f)  issuing a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking to provide a new
pathway for women to access contraceptives when their private health
coverage is exempt from covering this benefit;  
  
     (g)  issuing a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking to strengthen privacy
protections under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability
Act of 1996, Public Law 104-191, 110 Stat. 1936, as amended by Public
Law 111-5, 123 Stat. 115 (2009), by proposing to prohibit doctors, other
healthcare providers, and health plans from using or disclosing
individuals’ protected health information related to lawful reproductive
healthcare, such as contraception use, under certain circumstances;  
  
     (h)  issuing a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking to ensure healthcare
providers that receive Federal financial assistance do not deny
healthcare, including contraception, on the basis of any ground
protected by Federal law; and  
  
     (i)  reminding Health Resources and Services Administration
(HRSA)-funded health centers of their obligations to provide family
planning services to patients consistent with Federal requirements.  
  
     Through this order, I direct my Administration to build on this
progress and further strengthen and bolster access to affordable,
high-quality contraception.  It remains the policy of my Administration
to support access to reproductive healthcare services and to protect and
defend reproductive rights in the face of ongoing efforts to strip
Americans of their fundamental freedoms.  
  
     Sec. 2.  Improving Access and Affordability Under the Affordable
Care Act.  (a)  The Secretaries of the Treasury, Labor, and Health and
Human Services (Secretaries) shall consider issuing guidance, consistent
with applicable law, to further improve Americans’ ability to access
contraception, without out-of-pocket expenses, under the Affordable Care
Act.  In doing so, the Secretaries shall consider actions that would, to
the greatest extent permitted by law:  
  
          (i)   ensure coverage of comprehensive contraceptive care,
including all contraceptives approved, granted, or cleared by the Food
and Drug Administration, without cost sharing for enrollees,
participants, and beneficiaries; and  
  
          (ii)  streamline the process for patients and healthcare
providers to request coverage, without cost sharing, of medically
necessary contraception.  
  
     (b)  The Secretaries shall consider additional actions, as
appropriate and consistent with applicable law, to promote increased
access to affordable over-the-counter contraception, including emergency
contraception.  
  
     Sec. 3.  Supporting Access Through Medicaid and Medicare.  The
Secretary of Health and Human Services, through the Administrator of the
Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, shall consider taking steps,
as appropriate and consistent with applicable law, to:  
  
     (a)  expand access to affordable family planning services and
supplies across the Medicaid program, including by identifying and
disseminating best practices for providing high-quality family planning
services and supplies, including through Medicaid-managed care; and  
  
     (b)  improve coverage and payment for contraceptives for Medicare
beneficiaries through Medicare Advantage and Medicare Part D plans.  
  
     Sec. 4.  Additional Actions to Support Contraception Access.  (a) 
To promote access to affordable, high-quality contraception, the
Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, and the
Director of the Office of Personnel Management shall consider additional
actions, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law, to:  
  
          (i)    ensure, where appropriate, robust coverage of
contraception under Federal programs;  
  
          (ii)   offer technical assistance to help promote access to
contraception, where relevant; and  
  
          (iii)  educate Federal program participants and beneficiaries
on how to access affordable, high-quality contraception, including
through public awareness initiatives that provide timely and accurate
information about such access.  
  
     (b)  To promote access to affordable, high-quality contraception
across Federal healthcare programs and relevant human services programs,
including through Title X clinics, HRSA-funded health centers, and the
Indian Health Service, the Secretary of Health and Human Services shall
consider taking actions, as appropriate and consistent with applicable
law, to:  
  
          (i)    encourage all federally funded health centers,
including HRSA-funded health centers, to expand the availability and
quality of voluntary family planning services offered to
beneficiaries;  
  
          (ii)   support healthcare providers that participate in the
Title X program through new technical assistance and training;  
  
          (iii)  support access to culturally and linguistically
appropriate care, including by developing and disseminating materials on
family planning services available at federally funded health centers;  
  
          (iv)   provide guidance on contraception-related obligations,
such as confidentiality protections, and technical assistance resources
to funding recipients, where relevant; and  
  
          (v)    support research and data analysis to document gaps and
disparities in access to contraception, as well as the benefits of
comprehensive coverage for contraception and family planning services
through public and private healthcare programs.  
  
     (c)  The Secretary of Labor shall identify best practices for
making affordable, high-quality contraception available to health plan
enrollees, participants, and beneficiaries to share with employers and
organizations that sponsor private health coverage.  
  
     (d)  The Secretary of Education shall convene institutions of
higher education to share best practices for making affordable,
high-quality contraception available, as well as ways to raise awareness
of options for accessing contraception.  
  
     Sec. 5.  General Provisions.  (a)  Nothing in this order shall be
construed to impair or otherwise affect:  
  
          (i)   the authority granted by law to an executive department
or agency, or the head thereof; or  
  
          (ii)  the functions of the Director of the Office of
Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or
legislative proposals.  
  
     (b)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law
and subject to the availability of appropriations.  
  
     (c)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right
or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity
by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.  
   
 

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.  
  

THE WHITE HOUSE,  
  June 23, 2023.
