---
date: '2023-06-14'
published_time: 2023-06-14 10:50:28-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2023/06/14/a-proclamation-on-world-elder-abuse-awareness-day-2023/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on World Elder Abuse Awareness Day,\_2023"
---
 
    Around the world, a silent epidemic of elder abuse is denying
seniors the ability to age with dignity, security, and grace.  No nation
is immune.  In America, 1 in 10 people over the age of 60 has
experienced some form of elder abuse, with cases still widely
underreported.  On World Elder Abuse Awareness Day, we highlight the
signs of this crisis, lift up the voices of survivors, and strive to
improve resources for those on a path to healing.

     Fighting elder abuse begins with bringing it out of the shadows and
raising awareness about its many forms.  While some victims show
injuries from physical or sexual violence, others experience
psychological abuse, neglect, and financial exploitation, which may be
more difficult to detect.  These offenses can happen anywhere — at home
with family or friends, at work among colleagues, online, and in other
public and private places.  Wherever it occurs, it is antithetical to
the basic American belief that every human being, regardless of age,
deserves to be treated with dignity and respect.

     To date, my Administration has invested over $430 million to
strengthen Adult Protective Services across our country, improving their
ability to investigate reports of elder abuse; support survivors with
emergency needs like food, shelter, or law enforcement protection; and
help provide medical and mental health treatment, legal and financial
assistance, and more.  My 2024 Budget calls for an additional $43
million beyond our current spending level to support these vital
programs. 

     Last year, I reauthorized and strengthened the Violence Against
Women Act, which includes dedicated funding for service providers, law
enforcement, and prosecutors responding to domestic and sexual violence
experienced by older adults.  And because America’s seniors saw over $3
billion siphoned from their pockets by fraudsters and scammers last
year, the Federal Trade Commission, the Federal Communications
Commission, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, and other
regulatory agencies have been laser-focused on identifying, preventing,
and, where appropriate, taking enforcement action against loan scams,
mortgage scams, romance scams, price gouging, and identity theft.  Every
American — especially seniors who have worked their whole lives for what
they have — deserves the peace of knowing that they are protected from
exploitation and that help is close at hand should emergencies arise.

     But the security of elderly people involves more than protecting
them against malicious schemes.  My Administration is also working to
improve the quality of care that older Americans receive at home and in
other residential settings.  Long-term care costs for the elderly and
people with disabilities are up 40 percent over the last decade, and too
many care workers are underpaid and undervalued.  In fact, too many are
leaving the profession altogether.  That is why, in addition to
implementing a National Strategy to Support Family Caregivers, I signed
an Executive Order on Increasing Access to High-Quality Care and
Supporting Caregivers.  It will make long-term care more accessible and
affordable for families; support family caregivers shouldering immense
responsibility; and improve job quality for home care workers and staff
at nursing homes, which in turn bolsters the workforce.  I continue
calling on the Congress to pass laws that improve the safety and quality
of care in nursing homes.  My new Budget would also invest $150 billion
over the next decade to improve and expand Medicaid home- and
community-based services — making it easier for seniors and people with
disabilities to receive quality care in their own homes. 

     The same principles guiding my Administration’s work to protect and
support the elderly at home also motivate our partnerships abroad.
 United States local law enforcement agencies, through Department of
State programs, are training foreign counterparts to help them
investigate crimes against the elderly and provide assistance to
victims.  Through the first-ever Strategy on Global Women’s Economic
Security, we are also working to improve conditions and opportunities
for caregivers around the world, many of whom are older women or support
aging adults.  Our Strategy to Prevent and Respond to Gender-based
Violence Globally is meanwhile focused on fighting elder abuse as a form
of gender-based violence, recognizing that gender-based violence affects
people of all ages, including older adults.

     Today, let us pledge to protect seniors who deserve to be treated
with dignity and respect not only because of a lifetime of contribution
but because of their overriding humanity.  It is fundamental that we
shape a world that values seniors’ wisdom, celebrates their
achievements, and treats their lives and rights as sacred, and it is
within our reach to make it a reality.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim June
15, 2023, as World Elder Abuse Awareness Day.  I encourage all Americans
to be diligent, work together to strengthen existing partnerships, and
develop new opportunities to improve our Nation’s prevention and
response to elder abuse, neglect, and exploitation.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this fourteenth day
of June, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-three, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-seventh.  

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
