---
date: '2022-11-08'
modified_time: 2022-11-08 15:05:19-05:00
published_time: 2022-11-08 15:05:18-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/11/08/a-proclamation-on-world-freedom-day-2022/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on World Freedom Day,\_2022"
---
 
     On World Freedom Day, we remember the fall of the Berlin Wall and
recall the hope felt around the world when freedom triumphed over
tyranny.  For decades, the Soviet Union ruled Central and Eastern Europe
with an iron fist behind an Iron Curtain.  But on that cold November
night in 1989, the Berlin Wall fell, and East and West Berliners came
together to send a clear message:  the darkness that drives autocracy
can never extinguish the flame of liberty that lights the souls of free
people everywhere.  Today, we reflect upon the power of people yearning
for democracy and once again rededicate ourselves to the same cause.

     Over the last 30 years, the forces of autocracy have been revived
across the globe — exhibiting their contempt for the rule of law, for
human rights and fundamental freedoms, and for truth itself.  Russia’s
unjust war against Ukraine, and its attempts to forcibly claim territory
through brutal violence and sham referenda, is the latest battle in a
long struggle between liberty and repression — between a rules-based
order and one governed by brute force.  We are reminded once again that
democracy is never guaranteed.  We have to defend it, protect it, and
stand up for it always.

     The United States will be unabashed in promoting our vision of a
free, open, secure, and prosperous world in the face of autocratic
attempts to forge a darker path.  The future will be won by countries
where members of religious and ethnic minorities can live without
harassment, where people can love freely without being targeted with
violence, where privacy is respected and personal liberties are
inalienable, and where citizens can vote freely and have that vote
counted.  We will continue investing in developing countries to help
them drive down poverty, shore up critical infrastructure, and unleash
the full potential of their populations.  We will continue marshaling
security, humanitarian, and economic support to Ukraine, strengthening
its hand militarily and diplomatically as it defends against Russian
aggression.  At home, I am determined to ensure that democracy continues
delivering for our people — making lives better in meaningful, concrete
ways.

     To all the people around the world striving toward a better future
— a future rooted in democracy and fundamental freedoms, hope and light,
decency and dignity — the United States stands with you.  From the
Ukrainian soldiers fighting for their nation’s very existence, to the
brave women of Iran organizing to secure their human rights and
fundamental freedoms, the people of Burma demanding democracy in the
face of brutal violence, and the Cuban citizens standing up against
oppression — the courage and commitment that helped bring down the
Berlin Wall remains alive and powerful around the world today.  History
shows us that it is from the darkest moments that the greatest progress
follows.  That is true thanks to brave people who are bending the arc of
history toward a freer and more just world. 

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, do hereby proclaim November 9, 2022, as World Freedom
Day.  I call upon the people of the United States of America to recall
the hope symbolized by the fall of the Berlin Wall and reaffirm our
dedication to freedom and democracy.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
eighth day of November, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-two,
and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred
and forty-seventh.

                           JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
