---
date: '2022-11-14'
modified_time: 2022-11-14 10:15:56-05:00
published_time: 2022-11-14 10:15:55-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/11/14/a-proclamation-on-america-recycles-day-2022/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on America Recycles Day,\_2022"
---
 
     On America Recycles Day, we promote the benefits of recycling for
our health, environment, and economy and we reenergize the efforts all
of us can take to meet the obligations we have as a Nation to future
generations.  By manufacturing and packaging more recyclable products,
producing less waste, and reusing precious resources, we can cut
greenhouse gas emissions, create new good-paying jobs, and do our part
to help address the climate crisis.

     While we know its benefits, recycling is at a crossroads today in
many parts of this country.  Too many Americans are uncertain about what
materials can or should be recycled.  Municipalities have trouble
finding markets for their recycled waste.  Also, as we extract and
process more natural resources when we could otherwise reuse materials,
we emit dangerous greenhouse gases into the atmosphere.  People of color
and low‑income Americans, who are more likely to live near landfills and
other waste processing plants, often suffer disproportionately from the
damaging effects of pollution, which impact their health, their
livelihoods, and the quality of their lives.

     In response, my Administration has released a National Recycling
Strategy to guide our efforts to educate Americans about recycling
best-practices.  This strategy discusses ways to improve collection
methods of recyclable products, how to more effectively identify markets
for these materials, and how to fund the next generation of recycling
technologies.  It encourages investments in technologies that recycle
important resources.  It also strengthens the steps my Administration
has taken to address climate change and achieve net-zero greenhouse gas
emissions by no later than 2050, including by signing the Inflation
Reduction Act into law — a historic investment in clean energy
manufacturing and climate action.

     For the health of our planet, we must build an economy that
prioritizes reducing, reusing, and recycling materials.  The Federal
Government can — and should — lead by example, but each of us has a role
to play.  Today, I call on all Americans to take action in their own
lives:  Dispose of waste in the proper bins whenever possible, reuse
containers, compost food, and use products made with recycled
materials.  I also call on all manufacturers and corporations to do
their part to improve the reusability and recyclability of the products
they sell and to reduce the amount of non-recyclable packaging they
use.  Together, as we activate our collective will and actualize our
shared responsibility, we can create a cleaner and greener country that
secures our future for generations to come.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
November 15, 2022, as America Recycles Day.  I call upon the people of
the United States of America to observe this day with appropriate
programs and activities, and I encourage all Americans to continue their
reducing, reusing, and recycling efforts throughout the year.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this fourteenth day
of November, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-two, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-seventh.

                           JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
