---
date: '2022-11-01'
published_time: 2022-11-01 12:58:50-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/11/01/notice-on-the-continuation-of-the-national-emergency-with-respect-to-sudan-2/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "Notice on the Continuation of the National Emergency With Respect to\_Sudan"
---
 
     On November 3, 1997, by Executive Order 13067, the President
declared a national emergency with respect to Sudan pursuant to the
International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 *et seq.*)
and took related steps to deal with the unusual and extraordinary threat
to the national security and foreign policy of the United States posed
by the actions and policies of the Government of Sudan.  On April 26,
2006, by Executive Order 13400, the President determined that the
conflict in Sudan’s Darfur region posed an unusual and extraordinary
threat to the national security and foreign policy of the United States,
expanded the scope of the national emergency declared in Executive Order
13067, and ordered the blocking of property of certain persons connected
to the Darfur region.  On October 13, 2006, by Executive Order 13412,
the President took additional steps with respect to the national
emergency declared in Executive Order 13067 and expanded in Executive
Order 13400.  In Executive Order 13412, the President also took steps to
implement the Darfur Peace and Accountability Act of 2006 (Public Law
109-344).

     On January 13, 2017, by Executive Order 13761, the President found
that positive efforts by the Government of Sudan between July 2016 and
January 2017 improved certain conditions that Executive Orders 13067 and
13412 were intended to address.  Given these developments, and in order
to encourage the Government of Sudan to sustain and enhance these
efforts, section 1 of Executive Order 13761 provided that sections 1 and
2 of Executive Order 13067 and the entirety of Executive Order 13412
would be revoked as of July 12, 2017, provided that the criteria in
section 12(b) of Executive Order 13761 had been met.

     On July 11, 2017, by Executive Order 13804, the President amended
Executive Order 13761, extending until October 12, 2017, the effective
date in section 1 of Executive Order 13761.  On October 12, 2017,
pursuant to Executive Order 13761, as amended by Executive Order 13804,
sections 1 and 2 of Executive Order 13067 and the entirety of Executive
Order 13412 were revoked.

     Sudan made strides in its transition toward democracy between 2019
and 2021, but the October 2021 military takeover of the government
reversed those modest gains.  The crisis that led to the declaration of
a national emergency in Executive Order 13067 of November 3, 1997; the
expansion of that emergency in Executive Order 13400 of April 26, 2006;
and the taking of additional steps with respect to that emergency in
Executive Order 13412 of October 13, 2006, Executive Order 13761 of
January 13, 2017, and Executive Order 13804 of July 11, 2017, has not
been resolved.  The situation in Darfur continues to pose an unusual and
extraordinary threat to the national security and foreign policy of the
United States.  For this reason, the national emergency declared in
Executive Order 13067, as expanded by Executive Order 13400, must
continue in effect beyond November 3, 2022.

     This notice shall be published in the *Federal Register* and
transmitted to the Congress.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.

THE WHITE HOUSE,  
    November 1, 2022.
