---
date: '2022-11-18'
published_time: 2022-11-18 09:37:03-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/11/18/a-proclamation-on-national-childs-day-2022/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Child\u2019s Day,\_2022"
---
 
     Every child deserves to be safe and loved — anchored by
a supportive family, a welcoming community, and a Nation devoted to
their education, health, safety, and well-being.  On National Child’s
Day, we renew our commitment to making America the best place in the
world to grow up.

     America’s youngest generation is set to become the best‑educated,
most accomplished, and most tolerant in our history.  Across the
country, children are studying hard, modeling kindness and compassion,
and making their voices heard on today’s biggest issues — from climate
change to human rights, health care to gun violence, and racial justice
to immigration.  America’s youth make me more optimistic than ever about
this Nation’s future, and I know that, by investing in their success
today, we can shape a more prosperous, secure, and just world tomorrow.

     That is why I signed the American Rescue Plan at the start of my
Presidency, providing $130 billion to public K-12 schools to help them
pay teacher salaries, fund renovations, and launch new afterschool and
summer tutoring programs.  During my first year in office, preschools,
elementary schools, and high schools hired a record 279,000 new
educators, and almost every single school that closed at the height of
the pandemic is now up and running.  To continue this progress and
ensure that no child’s future is limited by the neighborhood where they
are raised, I am calling on the Congress to more than double funding for
historically neglected Title I schools, which serve children from
low-income families.  

     At the same time, our American Rescue Plan expanded health
insurance to over a million children and cut child poverty by nearly 50
percent.  I have taken on the youth mental health crisis by making it
easier for children across America to receive support through their
pediatricians’ offices and helping schools hire more counselors and
social workers.  I secured funding through our Bipartisan Infrastructure
Law to replace lead pipes across the Nation and ensure that no parent
has to second-guess the quality of the water coming out of a school’s
drinking fountains. 

     As part of the White House Conference on Hunger, Nutrition, and
Health that I convened this fall — the first in 50 years — we released a
national strategy to end hunger and reduce diet-related diseases,
starting by expanding free school meals to 9 million more kids by 2032.
 And during Pride Month this year, I signed an Executive Order to
provide support to LGBTQI+ children and families, who deserve the same
dignity and respect as all Americans.  This order addresses
discriminatory legislative attacks on LGBTQI+ people and youth,
safeguards access to health care, prevents harmful so-called “conversion
therapy,” and addresses the LGBTQI+ youth mental health crisis.  I will
also ensure that the United States continues to defend and fully
implement the Indian Child Welfare Act of 1978, a law I was proud to
support that protects Native children and families in the welfare system
and involves Tribes in child welfare cases.

     Additionally, to improve children’s safety at home, in classrooms,
and in child care settings, my Administration rolled out COVID-19
vaccines for kids 6 months and older.  I also took action on gun
violence, signing a historic law to keep firearms out of the hands of
people who are a danger to themselves and to others — the first major
bipartisan gun safety legislation in nearly 30 years.  I will continue
pushing the Congress to ban assault weapons and high-capacity magazines
and support universal background checks, because no student in this
country should fear for their life and no parent should worry about
whether their child will come home safe from school.

     America became a world leader because we invested in the well-being
of our children and their families.  We pioneered new medicines,
improved nutrition, expanded educational opportunity for all children,
and drastically reduced infant mortality.  Today, we have another chance
to shape a future our Nation can be proud of.  By ensuring every child
in America has a safe and supportive upbringing, we can give our kids
the chance to be healthier, happier, and more successful than ever
before.  For the good of the country and the world, this work cannot
wait.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
November 20, 2022, as National Child’s Day.  I call upon all government
officials, educators, volunteers, and all the people of the United
States of America to observe this day with appropriate programs,
ceremonies, and activities.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this eighteenth day
of November, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-two, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-seventh.

                           JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
