---
date: '2022-11-16'
modified_time: 2022-11-16 10:59:48-05:00
published_time: 2022-11-16 10:59:47-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/11/16/a-proclamation-on-national-rural-health-day-2022/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Rural Health Day,\_2022"
---
 
     On National Rural Health Day, we recommit to delivering quality,
affordable health care to every zip code in America by making insurance
and prescription drugs more affordable, expanding mental health and
substance use disorder services, and by keeping rural facilities open
and staffed with dedicated doctors, nurses, and other health
professionals.

     We have made progress, but challenges remain.  For too long, rural
hospitals and clinics have been closing, resulting in trauma patients in
rural areas often needing to travel twice as far for care and
experiencing a higher rate of fatality compared to Americans living in
urban areas.  These closures are also damaging to rural economies, where
hospitals are often the biggest employers in town.  Hunger and
diet-related diseases are also more common in rural areas, deepening
health inequities.  And the COVID-19 pandemic further strained an
already strapped system.

     My Administration is fighting to change this.  The American Rescue
Plan directed $8.5 billion to help rural providers cover soaring costs
associated with COVID-19 — keeping rural hospitals and clinics open and
contributing to nearly 700,000 previously uninsured rural Americans
gaining health care coverage.  To continue this progress, we established
a new Rural Emergency Hospital designation with additional Medicare
reimbursement to help improve access to emergency and outpatient care. 
We have provided $1.5 billion in scholarships and student loan
assistance for rural clinicians and nurses, including over 20,000
National Health Service Corps members working in underserved areas.  In
addition, we launched an innovative program to train rural providers
through the Department of Veterans Affairs to better serve the nearly
five million veterans who live in rural areas.  We are also helping to
build and renovate rural facilities while boosting access to telehealth
— a lifeline in remote areas — with historic investments in rural
broadband and expansion of services that can be delivered via telehealth
to providers serving Medicare beneficiaries.  Meanwhile, the Inflation
Reduction Act is lowering health insurance premiums under the Affordable
Care Act and capping drug costs for seniors on Medicare at $2,000 a year
and insulin at $35 per prescription per month.

     At the same time, we are expanding mental health and substance use
disorder services, supporting community health centers, training
specialists, and sponsoring initiatives that reduce the stigma often
associated with those conditions.  Addressing the mental health crisis
and beating the drug overdose epidemic, which cuts short so many lives
in rural America, are urgent priorities for the Nation and key pillars
of my Administration’s Unity Agenda.

     Finally, we are also improving rural health by making sure no child
in America goes to bed hungry and no family has to second-guess the
safety of the water they drink.  In September, I convened the first
White House Conference on Hunger, Nutrition, and Health in over 50
years, and released a national strategy to combat hunger and improve
nutrition for every American.  As part of the strategy, we are carving a
pathway for all children to get free and healthy school meals and
expanding efforts to increase access to local foods.  This will benefit
rural families as well as local farmers. Through the Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law, we are working with State, local, and Tribal
partners to replace lead pipes, get rid of lead paint, and deliver clean
water to every home nationwide.

     We all benefit from the work rural Americans do to feed and fuel
the Nation.  Rural families deserve to pursue their dreams without
worrying that the nearest hospital is too far or that their children and
jobs will move away because health care is just too hard to find at
home.  Health care is a right, not a privilege, and I will never quit
fighting for rural Americans.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
November 17, 2022, as National Rural Health Day.  I call upon the people
of the United States to reaffirm our dedication to the health and
well-being of rural America.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this sixteenth day
of November, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-two, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-seventh.

                           JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
