---
date: '2022-11-28'
modified_time: 2022-11-28 11:11:38-05:00
published_time: 2022-11-28 11:11:37-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/11/28/memorandum-on-promoting-accountability-for-conflict-related-sexual-violence/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "Memorandum on Promoting Accountability for Conflict-Related Sexual\_Violence"
---
 
MEMORANDUM FOR THE HEADS OF EXECUTIVE DEPARTMENTS AND AGENCIES

SUBJECT:       Promoting Accountability for Conflict-Related Sexual  
               Violence  
  
By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, and in order to enhance United
States policy and approach to prevent and respond to conflict-related
sexual violence worldwide, it is hereby ordered as follows:

     Section 1.  Policy.  Conflict-related sexual violence (CRSV) has
devastating effects on individuals and communities, undermines peace and
security, and prevents inclusive and sustainable development.  Yet
wherever conflicts or crises occur, sexual violence continues to be
wielded as a tool or is a byproduct of armed conflict.  Impunity for
CRSV remains widespread, with accountability and justice the rare
exception.  For each rape reported in connection with a conflict, the
United Nations estimates that 10 to 20 cases go undocumented, in part
due to the impunity of perpetrators.  Among the best ways to prevent
CRSV worldwide are to advance global gender equity and equality and
change harmful societal gender norms; prioritize prevention measures and
locally-driven responses to all forms of gender-based violence,
including through respect for human rights and international
humanitarian law and equal protection under the law; and address
impunity related to these brutal, yet often unreported, acts.  
  
     The United States does not accept CRSV as an inevitable cost of
armed conflict and is committed to supporting survivors of this scourge
by invoking all tools available, including legal, policy, diplomatic,
and financial tools, to deter such violence, break the vicious cycle of
impunity, and provide the necessary services to survivors.  The United
States has numerous frameworks, including laws and policies, through
which to respond to and address CRSV, but more action is required to use
them fully and in a manner that responds to the full scale of this
problem.  These efforts to address impunity and increase accountability
for CRSV will complement a broader, holistic approach to preventing and
responding to this scourge, which includes advancing gender equity and
equality; prioritizing the immediate needs of survivors; and amplifying
survivor voices in transitional justice, the provision of services, and
peace and political processes.  
  
     It is the policy of the United States to fully exercise existing
authorities to impose economic sanctions and implement visa restrictions
in order to promote justice and accountability for acts of CRSV; devote
the necessary resources to ensure regular coordination and reporting on
CRSV incidents and to conduct training on CRSV issues more broadly,
including to support the designation of sanctions targets; strengthen
the implementation of other existing tools and authorities to promote
accountability for CRSV, including the provision of United States
security assistance; and broaden engagement with foreign partner
governments to encourage the establishment and use of their own tools to
promote justice and accountability.

     Sec. 2.  Advancing Accountability for Acts of CRSV through Existing
Sanctions Authorities.  (a)  Executive Order 13818 of December 20, 2017
(Blocking the Property of Persons Involved in Serious Human Rights Abuse
or Corruption), builds on and implements the Global Magnitsky Human
Rights Accountability Act, Public Law 114-328 (the “Act”), and
authorizes the imposition of sanctions on persons, including both
individuals and entities, responsible for or complicit in, or who have
directly or indirectly engaged in, serious human rights abuse, as well
as individuals who are or have been leaders or officials of an entity,
including any government entity, that has engaged in, or which has
members who have engaged in, serious human rights abuses relating to
their tenure, among other things.  It is the policy of the United States
that an act of CRSV, committed by either state or non-state actors, may
constitute a “serious human rights abuse” for purposes of designation
under Executive Order 13818, as well as other similar authorities, and
in furtherance of the policy reflected in the Act.  
  
     (b)  In addition to the authorities described in subsection (a) of
this section, many country-specific sanctions programs also contain
criteria for the imposition of sanctions on persons engaged in or
otherwise connected to activities that may include CRSV.  For example,
numerous sanctions programs, including country-specific programs related
to Belarus, Burma, the Central African Republic, the Democratic Republic
of the Congo, Iran, Libya, Mali, Nicaragua, Somalia, North Korea, the
Russian Federation, South Sudan, Syria, Venezuela, the Western Balkans,
and Zimbabwe, include criteria for targeting certain abuses or
violations of human rights, which may include CRSV depending on specific
facts and circumstances.  It is the policy of the United States to
promote accountability for perpetrators of acts of CRSV through relevant
existing sanctions authorities, where applicable, and to ensure that
these authorities are used to the fullest extent possible to target
perpetrators of acts of CRSV and their enablers.   
  
     (c)  I hereby direct the Secretary of State, the Secretary of the
Treasury, the Attorney General, and the Director of National
Intelligence to undertake the following actions, including by issuing
guidance or regulations as appropriate:

1.   ensure equal consideration of and attention to acts of CRSV as the
    conduct supporting designation when identifying appropriate targets
    and compiling information necessary for the               
    preparation of sanctions packages under applicable authorities,
    including those identified in this section; and  
     
2.   strengthen the capacity of executive departments and agencies
    (agencies) to collect, identify, assess, and share information on
    CRSV as appropriate, including by consulting with local civil
    society organizations, taking into account the importance of safely
    gathering information from survivors to support potential
    designations under existing sanctions authorities.

     Sec. 3.  Advancing Accountability for Acts of CRSV Through
Additional Measures and Authorities.  The United States is committed to
using all available tools, including those pertaining to security
assistance and visa eligibility, to prevent and respond to CRSV and
promote accountability for perpetrators.  Heads of agencies, including
the Secretary of State and the Secretary of the Treasury, are directed
to use existing authorities to the fullest extent possible to promote
accountability for acts of CRSV, including considering acts of CRSV when
assessing the potential application of existing laws and regulations,
including, where appropriate, the laws known as the “Leahy Laws” (22
U.S.C. 2378d and 10 U.S.C. 362) and sections 7031(c) and 7048(g) of the
Department of State, Foreign Operations, and Related Programs
Appropriations Act, 2022 (Div. K, Public Law 117-103, as carried forward
by the Continuing Appropriations Act, 2023 (Div. A, Public Law
117-180)), as well as similar provisions in future acts.

     Sec. 4.  Building Coalitions of Like-Minded Nations and Engaging
International Organizations in Promoting Accountability for Acts of
CRSV.  Bilateral relationships with allies and partners, as well as
engagement in multilateral fora and our relationships with international
organizations, are critical to promote justice and accountability for
acts of CRSV and bring global attention to this issue.  Agencies engaged
abroad shall reinforce the work they have done and amplify efforts with
other nations — bilaterally and within multilateral fora — and with
international organizations to broaden the number of countries willing
to support accountability for acts of CRSV and to strengthen policies
and locally-driven programming in multilateral institutions, including
efforts to address the immediate and long-term needs of survivors, to
promote accountability and justice for acts of CRSV.  
  
     Sec. 5.  Definition.  For the purposes of this memorandum, the term
“conflict-related sexual violence” (CRSV) refers to incidents or
patterns of sexual violence that occur in conflict or post-conflict
situations with a direct or indirect link to conflict.  CRSV may include
rape, sexual slavery, sex trafficking, forced pregnancy, forced
sterilization, and any other form of sexual violence of comparable
gravity, against individuals of all gender identities.  Depending on the
circumstances, acts of CRSV can constitute war crimes, crimes against
humanity, or acts of genocide, and therefore may constitute crimes that
are punishable under international law.

Sec. 6.  General Provisions.  (a)  Nothing in this memorandum shall be
construed to impair or otherwise affect:

1.  the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency,
    or the head thereof; or  
     
2.  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget
    relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

     (b)  This memorandum shall be implemented consistent with
applicable law and subject to the availability of appropriations.  
  
     (c)  This memorandum is not intended to, and does not, create any
right or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in
equity by any party against the United States, its departments,
agencies, or entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other
person.  
  
     (d)  The Secretary of State is authorized and directed to publish
this memorandum in the *Federal Register*.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
