---
date: '2022-11-30'
published_time: 2022-11-30 13:05:59-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/11/30/a-proclamation-on-national-impaired-driving-prevention-month-2022/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Impaired Driving Prevention Month,\_2022"
---
 
     During National Impaired Driving Prevention Month, we recommit to
stopping avoidable traffic deaths and keeping America’s roadways safe by
driving sober, raising awareness, helping each other get home, and
supporting fellow Americans who are struggling with substance use.

     Over 10,000 American lives are lost to drunk and drug-impaired
driving each year, accounting for nearly a third of all traffic deaths.
 In 2019, some 11 percent of Americans drove under the influence,
including a staggering 19.6 percent of people aged 21-25 — and that
number has only grown since the COVID-19 pandemic began.  Far too many
families are left getting that gut-wrenching phone call after an
accident — their worlds changed forever.  Far too many passengers and
pedestrians see their lives destroyed by someone else’s bad decision,
and far too many law enforcement officers put themselves at risk to keep
impaired drivers off our roads.  We owe it to them all to do everything
we can to prevent future tragedies.  That starts by working to reduce
substance use disorders, raising awareness of the dangers of impaired
driving; and investing in technologies that can help prevent crashes,
injuries, and deaths.

     At the same time, we are promoting life-saving tools that can keep
people from driving under the influence.  The Bipartisan Infrastructure
Law, for example, provides funds for States to develop new technologies
that can detect and prevent drunk and drug-impaired driving.  It also
requires all new passenger motor vehicles to be equipped with
crash-averting features, like automatic emergency braking and collision
warnings.  The Department of Transportation is also partnering with
State and local agencies and non-profits to educate the public through
its *Drive Sober or Get Pulled Over* and *If You Feel Different*, *You
Drive Different* media campaigns.  We can all raise awareness within our
own communities.

     Starting with the American Rescue Plan, my Administration has
secured billions of dollars to expand access to substance use services. 
We distributed $1.5 billion to fight the opioid epidemic this fall.  We
have asked the Congress for $24 billion more to fund prevention,
treatment, and recovery programs across the country, especially in
underserved communities.  We are also asking the Congress for $18
billion to reduce the supply of illicit substances entering our country
to help keep communities safe.  And we are working to help end the
stigma around addiction so more people feel free to seek the help they
need.

     During this holiday season especially, let us remember all those we
have lost to impaired driving and take simple steps to save lives.  I
encourage every American to plan ahead how you will get home after
drinking and to be sure that if you have used any substance you never
get behind the wheel.  Ride-share apps make it easier than ever to stay
safe.  And whenever you see loved ones or colleagues putting themselves
or others at risk, step up to offer a hand.  Lives depend on it.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
December 2022 as National Impaired Driving Prevention Month.  I urge all
Americans to make responsible decisions and take appropriate measures to
prevent impaired driving.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
thirtieth day of November, in the year of our Lord
two thousand twenty-two, and of the Independence of the United States
of America the two hundred and forty-seventh.

                           JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
