---
date: '2022-11-10'
published_time: 2022-11-10 13:06:29-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/11/10/a-proclamation-on-american-education-week-2022/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on American Education Week,\_2022"
---
 
     During American Education Week, we celebrate the power of public
education and thank the educators and staff who do so much to make our
public schools the cornerstone of our democracy, prosperity, and
strength.

     America is founded on the beliefs that all people are created equal
and that with talent and hard work anyone can get ahead.  Our public
schools make that possible.  For over a century since America made 12
years of education universal, public schools have given us the
best-prepared workforce on the planet, the most innovative industries,
the most creative ideas, and the strongest economy.  A quality education
has been a ticket to the middle class, and our public schools have been
the centers of our communities — places to listen and learn from each
other, united around our shared American ideals.

     In the wake of the pandemic, though, it is clearer than ever that
our schools and kids need more support.  Students have lost months of
learning, and the latest Nation’s Report Card showed serious declines in
math and reading, even as heroic educators have sacrificed so much to
help students catch up.  There are bright spots across the country, but
the truth is that even before COVID-19, the United States had already
dropped behind other nations in early education and overall attainment.
 The pandemic just made things worse.

     That is why my Administration fought so hard to pass the American
Rescue Plan, which provided a historic $130 billion to help schools
across the country reopen safely, tackle learning loss, boost teacher
pay, increase mental health services, and expand afterschool and summer
programs.  Since I took office, schools have hired 328,000 new educators
and staff and increased the number of social workers, counselors, and
school nurses on hand to support students.  Meanwhile, the Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law is investing historic amounts in our Nation’s roads,
bridges, and communities.  It will replace America’s lead pipes so
children can turn on the faucet at home or school and drink clean water.
 It will deliver affordable, high-speed internet to every family so no
child has to sit in a fast-food parking lot to get Wi-Fi for their
homework.  It will upgrade schools’ ventilation systems, saving energy.
 It will phase in thousands of electric school buses, protecting our
kids from today’s diesel bus fumes.  At the same time, we are working to
keep our kids nourished and safe, making it easier to concentrate in
class.  My Administration released a national strategy to combat hunger
in America, which outlines a pathway to free, healthy school meals for
all children, millions of whom are food insecure.  Last summer, we
passed the Nation’s first major gun safety bill in nearly 30 years,
funding mental health supports in schools, anti-violence programs, and
red-flag laws and expanding background checks to help make sure every
American school is safe.

     As we boost support for K-12 education, we also acknowledge that 12
years of school is no longer enough to compete in the 21st century — so
my Administration is taking historic steps to expand access to education
beyond high school, too.  We are working with unions, employers, and
community groups to expand quality apprenticeship programs.  We have
increased the maximum Pell Grant, helping millions of low-income
students cover more of their college costs.  We have invested billions
of dollars in Historically Black Colleges and Universities, Tribal
Colleges and Universities, and Minority-Serving Institutions, such as
Hispanic-Serving Institutions.  As working families continue to recover
from the strains associated with the COVID-19 pandemic, we are easing
the burden of student debt by forgiving up to $20,000 in eligible
Federal student loans for anyone who earns less than $125,000 a year and
forgiving the entire loan balance for public school teachers and other
public servants who have made payments for at least 10 years.  Borrowers
can apply for one-time debt relief in a matter of minutes at
[studentaid.gov](https://studentaid.gov/).  Borrowers who work in public
service can apply for the Public Service Loan Forgiveness at
[studentaid.gov/pslf](/Users/KValle/AppData/Local/Microsoft/Windows/INetCache/Content.Outlook/UA29IWJN/studentaid.gov/pslf).

     At the same time, we have much more to do to provide free,
high-quality preschool for every three- and four-year-old, to boost
resources for high-poverty Title I schools, and to make affordable
childcare available to all working families.  Our children are the kite
strings that hold our national ambitions aloft, and our public education
system gives them the tools they need to take flight.  This week, we
honor all the educators, counselors, nurses, cafeteria workers, bus
drivers, custodians, and other school staff who make such a difference
in our children’s lives; and we recommit to getting them the support
needed to guarantee that every child in America can reach their
potential.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
November 13 through November 19, 2022, as American Education Week.  I
invite all Americans to celebrate with appropriate activities, events,
and programs, and with gratitude for all those who have made education
their calling, and who help learners of all ages and backgrounds reach
their full potential.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
tenth day of November, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-two,
and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred
and forty-seventh.

                           JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
