---
date: '2022-11-30'
modified_time: 2022-11-30 10:00:26-05:00
published_time: 2022-11-30 10:00:25-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/11/30/memorandum-on-uniform-standards-for-tribal-consultation/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "Memorandum on Uniform Standards for Tribal\_Consultation"
---
 
Memorandum for the Heads of Executive Departments and Agencies  
  
SUBJECT:       Uniform Standards for Tribal Consultation

By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered as follows:  
  
Section1.  Background.  The United States has a unique, legally affirmed
Nation-to-Nation relationship with American Indian and Alaska Native
Tribal Nations, which is recognized under the Constitution of the United
States, treaties, statutes, Executive Orders, and court decisions.  The
United States recognizes the right of Tribal governments to self-govern
and supports Tribal sovereignty and self-determination.  The United
States also has a unique trust relationship with and responsibility to
protect and support Tribal Nations.  In recognition of this unique legal
relationship, and to strengthen the government-to-government
relationship, Executive Order 13175 of November 6, 2000 (Consultation
and Coordination With Indian Tribal Governments), charges all executive
departments and agencies (agencies) with engaging in regular,
meaningful, and robust consultation with Tribal officials in the
development of Federal policies that have Tribal implications.
 Executive Order 13175 also sets forth fundamental principles and
policymaking criteria.  
  
The Presidential Memorandum of January 26, 2021 (Tribal Consultation and
Strengthening Nation-to-Nation Relationships), requires agencies to
submit detailed plans of action to implement the policies and directives
of Executive Order 13175.  In response, all agencies subject to
Executive Order 13175 submitted plans of action, including over 50
agencies that submitted a consultation plan of action for the first
time.  Agencies also conducted more than 90 national-level Tribal
consultations, focusing specifically on agency Tribal consultation
policies.  The purpose of this memorandum is to establish uniform
minimum standards to be implemented across all agencies regarding how
Tribal consultations are to be conducted.  This memorandum is designed
to respond to the input received from Tribal Nations regarding Tribal
consultation, improve and streamline the consultation process for both
Tribes and Federal participants, and ensure more consistency in how
agencies initiate, provide notice for, conduct, record, and report on
Tribal consultations.  These are baseline standards; agencies are
encouraged to build upon these standards to fulfill the goals and
purposes of Executive Order 13175 consistent with their unique missions
and engagement with Tribal Nations on agency-specific issues.  
  
Sec. 2.  Consultation Principles.  Tribal consultation is a two-way,
Nation-to-Nation exchange of information and dialogue between official
representatives of the United States and of Tribal Nations regarding
Federal policies that have Tribal implications.  Consultation recognizes
Tribal sovereignty and the Nation-to-Nation relationship between the
United States and Tribal Nations, and acknowledges that the United
States maintains certain treaty and trust responsibilities to Tribal
Nations.  Consultation requires that information obtained from Tribes be
given meaningful consideration, and agencies should strive for consensus
with Tribes or a mutually desired outcome.  Consultation should
generally include both Federal and Tribal officials with decision-making
authority regarding the proposed policy that has Tribal implications.
 Consultation will ensure that applicable information is readily
available to all parties, that Federal and Tribal officials have
adequate time to communicate, and that after the Federal decision,
consulting Tribal Nations are advised as to how their input influenced
that decision-making.  All of these principles should be applied to the
extent practicable and permitted by law.  
  
Sec. 3.  Designating an Agency Point of Contact for Tribal
Consultation.  (a)  The head of each agency shall designate a primary
point of contact for Tribal consultation matters who is responsible for
advising agency staff on all matters pertaining to Tribal consultation
and serving as the primary point of contact for Tribal officials seeking
to consult with the agency.    
  
(b)  The head of each agency shall consider designating additional
points of contact as necessary to facilitate consultation on varied
subject matter areas within the agency.  
  
(c)  Each agency shall provide the names and contact information of the
designated agency points of contact for Tribal consultation on its
website, as well as to the White House Office of Intergovernmental
Affairs and the White House Council on Native American Affairs.  
  
(d)  The designated agency points of contact may delegate consultation
responsibilities to other decision-making agency officials within their
agency as necessary and appropriate.  
  
Sec. 4.  Determining Whether Consultation Is Appropriate.  The head of
each agency shall ensure that agency staff undertake an analysis as
early as possible to determine whether Tribal consultation is required
or appropriate consistent with Executive Order 13175.  This analysis
should occur regardless of whether a Tribal government requests
consultation.  When a Tribal government requests consultation, the
agency — to the extent that it has not yet performed the analysis to
determine whether consultation is appropriate — shall conduct that
analysis as soon as possible and respond to the Tribe within a
reasonable time period.  If there is a reasonable basis to believe that
a policy may have Tribal implications, consistent with the definition in
Executive Order 13175, the agency shall follow the applicable
requirements for consultation.  Agencies may still engage in Tribal
consultation even if they determine that a policy will not have Tribal
implications, and should consider doing so if they determine that a
policy is of interest to a Tribe or Tribes.  
  
Sec. 5.  Notice of Consultation.  (a)  When inviting a Tribe or Tribes
to consult, the head of each agency should:  
  
(i)    develop a notice of consultation, which includes:  
  
(A)  sufficient information on the topic to be discussed, in an
accessible language and format, and context for the consultation topic,
to facilitate meaningful consultation;  
  
(B)  the date, time, and location of the consultation, as requested by
the agency or as developed in consultation with the Tribe or Tribes;  
  
(C)  if consulting virtually or by telephone, links to join or register
in advance;  
  
(D)  an explanation of any time constraints known to the agency at that
time, such as statutory deadlines;  
  
(E)  deadlines for any written comments on the topic; and  
  
(F)  names and contact information for agency staff who can provide more
information;  
  
(ii)   transmit the notice of consultation, using the agency’s standard
method of communication, to each affected Tribal government and consider
posting it to the agency’s website or any centralized Federal Government
site for providing notice of or coordinating Tribal consultations;  
  
(iii)  provide notice of at least 30 days to the Tribe or Tribes of any
planned consultations, except as provided in subsection (c) of this
section;  
  
(iv)   provide appropriate, available information on the subject of
consultation including, where consistent with applicable law, a proposed
agenda, framing paper, and other relevant documents to assist in the
consultation process; and  
  
(v)    allow for a written comment period following the consultation of
at least 30 days, except as provided in subsection (c) of this
section.  
  
(b)  The head of each agency shall ensure that agency officials
responsible for sending invitations to consult to interested or
potentially affected Tribal governments use available tools, databases,
and agency documentation, as well as communicate with agency
representatives who may be knowledgeable about those Tribes and the
location(s) affected by the policy with Tribal implications, to ensure
their invitation efforts are appropriately inclusive.  Such efforts
should account for the fact that Tribes may have connections or legally
protected rights to locations and resources beyond their current Tribal
lands and Tribal government offices such as off-reservation fishing,
hunting, gathering, or other rights.  
  
(c)  If there are time constraints such that 30 days’ notice of
consultation is not possible, or that the post-consultation written
comment period described in subsection (a)(v) of this section must be
shorter than 30 days, the notice of consultation should include
information as to why the standard notice or written comment period
cannot be provided.  Upon the request of a Tribe, or where it would
serve Tribal interests or fulfill certain trust obligations to Tribal
Nations, agencies should consider adjusting deadlines for notice of
consultations and for accepting written comments.  
  
Sec. 6.  Conducting the Consultation.  Throughout a consultation, the
head of each agency, or appropriate representatives, shall recognize and
respect Tribal self-government and sovereignty; identify and consider
Tribal treaty rights, reserved rights, and other rights; respect and
elevate Indigenous Knowledge, including cultural norms and practices
relevant to such consultations; and meet the responsibilities that arise
from the unique legal relationship between the Federal Government and
Tribal governments.  The head of each agency should ensure that agency
representatives with appropriate expertise and, to the extent
practicable, decision-making authority regarding the proposed policy are
present at the Nation-to-Nation consultation.  The head of each agency
should consider conducting the consultation in a manner that prioritizes
participation of official Tribal government leaders.  
  
Sec. 7.  Record of the Consultation.  (a)  The head of each agency shall
maintain a record of the consultation process that includes:  
  
(i)    a summary of Tribal input received;  
  
(ii)   a general explanation of how Tribal input influenced or was
incorporated into the agency action; and  
  
(iii)  if relevant, the general reasoning for why Tribal suggestions
were not incorporated into the agency action or why consensus could not
be attained.  
  
(b)  The head of each agency shall timely disclose to the affected Tribe
or Tribes the outcome of the consultation and decisions made as a result
of the consultation.  To the extent permitted by applicable law, the
head of each agency shall seek to ensure that information designated as
sensitive by a Tribal government is not publicly disclosed.  Agencies
should obtain advance informed consent from Tribal communities for the
use of sensitive information provided by the Tribe, and should inform
Tribal representatives that certain Federal laws, including the Freedom
of Information Act, may require disclosure of such information.      
  
(c)  For national and regional consultations, or if otherwise
appropriate, the head of each agency should also consider publicly
posting the record of consultation to foster ease of reference and use
by other agencies, employees, and processes, and to minimize burdens on
Tribes to provide similar input in multiple consultations.  Decisions
regarding whether to publicly post a record of consultation should be
made with Tribal input.  
  
(d)  The record of consultation does not waive any privilege or other
exception to disclosure pursuant to the Freedom of Information Act or
its implementing regulations.  
  
Sec. 8.  Training.  (a)  The head of each agency shall require annual
training regarding Tribal consultation for agency employees who work
with Tribal Nations or on policies with Tribal implications.  This
training shall include, at minimum, review of Executive Order 13175,
this memorandum, and any applicable Tribal consultation policy of the
agency.   
  
(b)  In addition, the Secretary of the Interior and the Director of the
Office of Personnel Management (OPM), in consultation with Tribal
Nations, shall establish training modules regarding Tribal consultation
to be available for agency employees who work with Tribal Nations or on
policies with Tribal implications.  These training modules should
explain the concepts of Tribal consultation, the Nation-to-Nation
relationship, and Tribal sovereignty.  Agencies may use these training
modules to satisfy the annual training requirement set forth in
subsection (a) of this section.  
  
(c)  Within 180 days of the date of this memorandum, the Director of
OPM, in consultation with the Secretary of the Interior, shall report to
the President on progress toward establishing training modules regarding
Tribal consultation and shall identify additional resources or other
support necessary to implement this training.  
  
Sec. 9.  Definitions.  The terms “Tribal officials,” “policies that have
Tribal implications,” and “agency” as used in this memorandum are as
defined in Executive Order 13175.  The terms “Tribes” and “Tribal
Nations” as used in this memorandum have the same definition as the term
“Indian Tribe” as defined in Executive Order 13175.  
  
Sec. 10.  Scope.  Nothing in this memorandum shall be construed to
impair or otherwise affect the ability of heads of agencies to set more
specific or more stringent standards, or to incorporate other best
practices, for conducting Tribal consultation.  
  
Sec. 11.  General Provisions.  (a)  Nothing in this memorandum shall be
construed to impair or otherwise affect:  
  
(i)   the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency,
or the head thereof; or  
  
(ii)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative
proposals.  
  
(b)  This memorandum shall be implemented consistent with applicable law
and subject to the availability of appropriations.  
  
(c)  This memorandum is not intended to, and does not, create any right
or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity
by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.  
  
(d)  Independent agencies are strongly encouraged to comply with the
provisions of this memorandum.  
  
(e)  The Director of the Office of Management and Budget is authorized
and directed to publish this memorandum in the *Federal Register*.

                                         JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
