---
date: '2022-11-18'
published_time: 2022-11-18 09:39:14-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/11/18/a-proclamation-on-national-family-week-2022/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Family Week,\_2022"
---
 
     During National Family Week, we celebrate the power of family,
whose love and dreams for the future have made this Nation strong for
generations.

     For me and the First Lady, family is everything.  That is why, from
day one, my Administration’s top priority has been to build an economy
that works for working families.  Our American Rescue Plan provided
families with thousands of dollars each in stimulus checks and tax
credits, slashing child poverty by nearly half and cutting food
insecurity by a quarter.  It helped to reopen schools, easing the burden
on overstretched parents, and it gave every American access to free
COVID-19 vaccines so families separated by the pandemic could finally be
together.  Last summer, I signed the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law to
rebuild roads, bridges, ports, and public transit — reviving communities
and creating good-paying jobs to raise a family on.  This law is
replacing lead pipes in homes and schools so every child in America has
clean drinking water.  It is expanding broadband internet so no child
has to sit in a fast-food parking lot to get Wi-Fi for their homework.
 It is building resilient infrastructure in flood- and fire-prone areas,
protecting family homes from the threat of climate change.

     I also signed the historic Inflation Reduction Act, capping annual
prescription drug costs for seniors on Medicare at $2,000.  We are
lowering the cost of hearing aids and making them available over the
counter, saving millions of Americans with hearing loss up to $3,000 per
pair.  We are working to ban “junk fees” — those unfair, hidden charges
that companies stick you with, like surprise overdraft charges or
extreme credit-card late fees that take real money from the pockets of
American families.  We have also taken historic action to ease the
burden of crippling student debt as working families continue to recover
from the strains associated with the COVID-19 pandemic.  This summer, we
passed the first major gun safety bill in nearly 30 years, taking on the
epidemic of gun violence that has ripped too many families apart.  And
we are working across the Government to finally get military and veteran
families the benefits and support they deserve.

     The past few years have been tough, but there are so many bright
spots to give us hope and optimism.  Economic growth and real incomes
are up.  Inflation and gas prices are down.  We have created a record
number of jobs with historically low unemployment.  We have seen a
record number of new businesses, and manufacturing is booming.  American
families’ net worth is greater now than before the pandemic.  Fewer
families are behind on mortgages or credit card bills and more have
health insurance.  We have much more to do — providing affordable
childcare, paid family leave, and home care for seniors, for instance —
but American families are already seeing the benefits of an economy
built from the bottom up and middle out.

     My dad had an expression:  Family is the beginning, middle, and
end.  May the power of family continue to be a blessing and a great
strength of our Nation.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
November 20 through November 26, 2022, as National Family Week.  I
invite States, communities, and individuals to join together in
observing this week with appropriate ceremonies and activities to honor
our Nation’s families.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this eighteenth day
of November, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-two, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-seventh.  

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
