---
date: '2022-11-30'
published_time: 2022-11-30 13:11:14-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/11/30/a-proclamation-on-world-aids-day-2022/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on World AIDS Day,\_2022"
---
 
On World AIDS Day, we recommit to ending the HIV epidemic in the United
States and around the world and rededicate ourselves to fighting the
discrimination that too often keeps people with HIV from getting the
services they need and living the full lives they deserve.

     It was long hard to imagine, but today, we are within striking
distance of eliminating HIV transmission worldwide.  Thanks to the
incredible dedication of scientists, activists, health care workers,
caregivers, and so many others, we have made enormous progress
preventing, detecting, and treating HIV; reducing case counts and
AIDS-related deaths; and freeing millions of people to enjoy long,
healthy lives.  Still, not everyone has equal access to that care.  And
for the more than 38 million people around the world now living with HIV
— especially members of the LGBTQI+ community, communities of color,
women, and girls — a diagnosis is still life-altering.  We can do
better.

     When I became President, we reestablished the White House Office of
National AIDS Policy and released a roadmap to accelerate efforts to end
the HIV epidemic in the United States by 2030.  Federal agencies have
committed to nearly 400 related actions, working with stakeholders
across the country to make the latest advances in HIV prevention,
diagnosis, and treatment available to everyone.  I have asked the
Congress for $850 million to increase the use of preexposure prophylaxis
(PrEP), expand treatment, and fight the stigma that stops many people
from getting care.  We are working to remove barriers to employment,
with our Armed Forces, for example, ending blanket restrictions on
HIV-positive service members being deployed or commissioned.  And we are
calling on States to repeal or reform so-called HIV criminalization
laws, which wrongly punish people for exposing others to HIV.  These
outdated laws have no basis in science, and they serve to discourage
testing and further marginalize HIV-positive people.

     Our important work to end HIV extends far beyond our borders too,
with continued support for the game-changing, bipartisan President’s
Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR).  Since 2003, PEPFAR has helped
at least 12 high disease-burdened countries bring HIV under control and
has saved over 25 million lives.  Its efforts to make HIV prevention and
treatment services more accessible have achieved a 65 percent reduction
in new HIV cases in males 15 to 24 years old and a 50 percent reduction
in new HIV cases among females the same age since 2010.  And its
flagship Determined, Resilient, Empowered, AIDS-free, Mentored and Safe
(DREAMS) public-private partnership has reached millions of adolescent
girls and young women, reducing new HIV infections in areas where the
program operates.  My Administration has also pledged up to $6 billion
to the Seventh Replenishment of the Global Fund to Fight AIDS,
Tuberculosis, and Malaria — an initiative that has saved an estimated 50
million lives to date.  I am asking other international donors to match
that commitment so we can together deliver on the promise of health and
well-being for millions around the world.

     We still have a hard road ahead, especially in addressing racial
and gender gaps in our health systems, which have long driven
inequitable HIV outcomes at home and abroad.  But as we today honor the
700,000 Americans and 40 million lives lost worldwide to AIDS-related
illnesses over the years, we have new hope in our hearts.  We finally
have the scientific understanding, treatments, and tools to build an
AIDS-free future where everyone — no matter who they are, where they
come from, or whom they love — can get the care and respect they
deserve.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
December 1, 2022, as World AIDS Day.  I urge the Governors of the United
States and its Commonwealths and Territories, the appropriate officials
of all units of government, and the American people to join the HIV
community in activities to remember those who have lost their lives to
AIDS and to provide support, dignity, and compassion to people with HIV.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirtieth day
of November, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-two, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-seventh.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
