---
date: '2022-11-10'
published_time: 2022-11-10 13:13:37-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/11/10/a-proclamation-on-national-apprenticeship-week-2022/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Apprenticeship Week,\_2022"
---
 
During National Apprenticeship Week, we celebrate the workers of America
— the best in the world — and lift up the importance of apprenticeship
programs run by unions, employers, and other organizations.  These
programs train workers to hone a skill and craft that is going to
rebuild America for the 21st century.

For many workers, especially those without college degrees,
apprenticeships create a critical pathway to good-paying jobs.
 Registered apprentices earn while they learn. These programs,
particularly through local unions, ensure that our Nation is producing
the best-trained, best-prepared, and best-skilled workers for industries
now and of the future — from health care and information technology to
clean energy.  Supporting Registered Apprenticeships is a key part of my
economic vision to build an economy from the bottom up and the middle
out:  an economy that works for everyone.

That is why hundreds of millions of dollars from my American Rescue Plan
and Bipartisan Infrastructure Law are dedicated to helping States,
employers, labor organizations, and workforce intermediaries design,
develop, and expand Registered Apprenticeships and pre-apprenticeship
programs.  That means jobs for electrical workers, pipefitters,
carpenters, and more.  I began an Apprenticeship Ambassador Initiative,
which assembled a national network of businesses and labor organizations
and secured from them a collective commitment to hire over 10,000 new
apprentices in the next year alone.  Our Administration’s 90-Day
Trucking Apprenticeship Challenge and 120-day Cybersecurity
Apprenticeship Sprint bolstered this progress, garnering hundreds of
private sector commitments for new apprenticeship programs in these
critical sectors.  With these efforts, our Nation hit record-setting
employment in the trucking industry earlier this year.  Additionally,
nearly 150 public and private sector employers, unions, and
community-based organizations have made training and apprenticeship
commitments in the broadband, construction, and electrification sectors
to promote equitable workforce development as part of my Talent Pipeline
Challenge. 

At the same time, we have cut red tape so companies can also more easily
establish Registered Apprenticeship programs in just a matter of days. 
To ensure the American worker can ably compete in the global
marketplace, I revoked an Executive Order that promoted less rigorous
apprenticeships.  I am also making sure that, as our economy grows and
apprenticeship opportunities become more widely available, every
community in America experiences these benefits.  That means creating
clean energy apprenticeships and jobs in frontline and fence-line
communities that have suffered from the legacy of pollution.  It also
means continuing our support for initiatives like the Department of
Labor’s Women in Apprenticeship and Nontraditional Occupations grant
program, which has trained women to enter the skilled trades and other
occupations where they have been historically underrepresented.
 Diversifying pre-apprenticeship programs also plays a valuable role in
expanding the pool of workers ready to take on a Registered
Apprenticeship.

I have always believed that the middle class built America and that
unions built the middle class.  Registered Apprenticeships are a
testament to the power of unions to deliver good-paying jobs that offer
dignity and respect.  They also reflect American workers’ dedication and
commitment to excellence.  During National Apprenticeship Week, let us
celebrate the apprentices of America, give our thanks to the mentors who
train them, and remind ourselves of our ongoing responsibility to invest
in the best workforce on the planet.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim November 13
through November 19, 2022, as National Apprenticeship Week.  I urge the
Congress, State and local governments, educational institutions,
industry and labor leaders, apprentices, and all Americans to support
Registered Apprenticeship programs in the United States of America and
to raise awareness of their importance in building a diverse and robust
workforce to strengthen our national economy.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this tenth day of
November, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-two, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-seventh.

                           JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
