---
date: '2022-11-23'
published_time: 2022-11-23 11:21:56-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/11/23/a-proclamation-on-thanksgiving-day-2022/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Thanksgiving Day,\_2022"
---
 
This Thanksgiving, as homes across America fill with laughter, favorite
family foods, and the joy of friends and relatives reuniting, we give
thanks for everything that is good in our lives and reflect on the many
blessings of our Nation.

     This American spirit of gratitude dates back to our earliest days,
when the Pilgrims celebrated a successful first harvest, thanks to the
generosity and support of the Wampanoag people.  It inspired George
Washington to give his troops a day of prayer and thanks amid fierce
fighting for American independence.  It also moved Abraham Lincoln to
proclaim Thanksgiving a national holiday, honoring America’s bounty and
asking God to bring us together to care for one another and heal our
Nation.

     Today, Jill and I share that same gratitude for America’s promise
and for the millions of heroes across our country whose selflessness and
care for their communities represent the best of who we are. 

     We are grateful for our family and friends and for all of our
fellow Americans, even those whom we may never meet but rely upon
nonetheless.  We are thankful for the scientists, researchers, doctors,
and nurses who have kept us safe through a pandemic, and for the
frontline workers who have kept essential services going by growing and
providing food for our tables.  We are grateful to faith leaders for
their counsel, comfort, and support.  We thank our brave service members
and veterans who sacrifice so much for our freedom, and the first
responders who put so much on the line to keep us all safe. 

     As Scripture says:  “let us rejoice always, pray continually, and
give thanks in all circumstances.”  This is a special time in the
greatest country on Earth, so let us be grateful.  America is a great
Nation because we are a good people.  This holiday, we celebrate all
that brings us together, grounded in history and our shared hopes for
the future.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
Thursday, November 24, 2022, as a National Day of Thanksgiving.  I
encourage the people of the United States of America to join together
and give thanks for the friends, neighbors, family members, and
strangers who have supported each other over the past year in a
reflection of goodwill and unity.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-third
day of November, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-two, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-seventh.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
