---
date: '2022-10-31'
published_time: 2022-10-31 12:57:02-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/10/31/a-proclamation-on-national-diabetes-month-2022/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Diabetes Month,\_2022"
---
 
This month, we acknowledge more than 37 million Americans living with
diabetes who inspire us to develop better treatment options, make
life-saving medicines more affordable, and finally find a cure for this
disease.

     Over 10 percent of Americans have Type 1, Type 2, or gestational
diabetes, and tens of millions more remain at risk of developing this
chronic condition.  While the scientific community has made strides over
the past several decades to help patients manage symptoms, too many
loved ones must still contend with the daily challenge of managing blood
sugar levels, the dangers of long-term health complications, and the
frustration of being diagnosed with a disease that has yet to be cured. 
Despite it costing only $10 to manufacture a vial of insulin, drug
companies can charge more than 30 times that, leaving families
struggling to pay for life-saving medicine.  The inability to afford
vital treatment not only deprives people of a healthy existence but also
of their dignity.  This is especially true for people of color, who have
higher rates of diabetes.

     Health care should be a right, not a privilege.  That is the
America we are building.  In August, after decades of big pharmaceutical
companies blocking meaningful change, I signed the Inflation Reduction
Act into law, which caps the cost of a month’s supply of insulin at $35
per prescription for over 3 million seniors on Medicare.  I am committed
to lowering the cost of insulin for everyone, including hundreds of
thousands of children with Type 1 diabetes.  In March, I secured
$1 billion in bipartisan funding from the Congress to create the
Advanced Research Project Agencies for Health (ARPA-H) to drive medical
breakthroughs in prevention, detection, and treatment of diabetes and
other diseases.  Modeled after the Defense Advanced Research Projects
Agency (DARPA) that made pivotal discoveries leading to the invention of
the internet, GPS, and so much more, ARPA-H will help our Nation pursue
bold, audacious, and life-saving advances that improve the health and
well-being of every American.

     In September, my Administration also convened the first White House
Conference on Hunger, Nutrition, and Health in over 50 years and set a
goal to end hunger and reduce diet-related diseases, like diabetes, by
2030 while also continuing to reduce the health disparities that persist
in underserved communities.  My Administration released the White House
National Strategy on Hunger, Nutrition, and Health, which focuses on
improving food access and affordability, integrating nutrition and
health, empowering consumers to make and have access to healthy choices,
supporting physical activity for all, and enhancing nutrition and food
insecurity research.  In this strategy, we commit to better preventing
and managing diabetes, expanding access to nutrition counseling, and
working with the Congress to make the Medicare Diabetes Prevention
Program permanent and cost-effective.

     I have also taken steps to strengthen the Affordable Care Act,
which connects people with vital screening and services for diabetes and
related health issues.  I am making the newest and most effective
COVID-19 vaccines accessible to all Americans, which will save lives —
particularly for people living with diabetes who are often more
vulnerable to the worst effects of COVID-19.  Throughout this work, my
Administration is also determined to provide equal access to health care
to those who are disproportionately affected by diabetes and often are
least likely to receive the support they need, including Black, Brown,
and Native Americans.

     During National Diabetes Month, my Administration continues the
fight to lower the cost of lifesaving insulin for families so that no
parent is forced to ration vital medication and no child needs to skip
dosages because basic treatment is unaffordable.  We offer gratitude to
the dedicated medical professionals, researchers, advocates, and
caregivers who support loved ones living with diabetes and bring us
closer to ending this disease once and for all.  We stand by every
American diagnosed with diabetes, honor their strength and resolve, and
commit to helping them live full and healthy lives.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim the
month of November 2022 as National Diabetes Month.  I call upon all
Americans, school systems, government agencies, nonprofit organizations,
health care providers, research institutions, and other interested
groups to join in activities that raise diabetes awareness and help
prevent, treat, and manage this disease.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirty-first
day of October, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-two, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-seventh.                               

JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
