---
date: '2022-10-07'
published_time: 2022-10-07 14:29:56-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/10/07/a-proclamation-on-leif-erikson-day-2022/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Leif Erikson Day,\_2022"
---
 
     Over 1,000 years ago, Leif Erikson, son of Iceland and grandson of
Norway, embarked on a historic journey across the Atlantic, landing on
the shores of North America.  Widely believed to be the first Europeans
to set foot on this continent, he and his crew embodied traits that
would come to define a uniquely American spirit — restless and bold,
brave and optimistic, and in search of a better future.  This same
spirit would guide generations of Danes, Finns, Icelanders,
Norwegians, and Swedes to immigrate and build new lives in the
United States.  It would lead countless families to plant roots in the
Great Lakes States, the northern Great Plains, and enclaves across the
Nation.  It remains ingrained in the hearts of roughly 11 million
Americans who trace their ancestry to Nordic countries today.

     On Leif Erikson Day, we celebrate Nordic-Americans and all the ways
they strengthen the fabric of our Nation.  They are leaders in business
and philanthropy, educators and scholars, artists and inventors, doctors
and nurses, first responders, service members, and so much more.  In
every field and throughout every community, their contributions help
bring us closer to making the promise of America real for every
American.

     On this day, we also reaffirm our strong partnerships with Nordic
nations and their people.  Our mutual commitments to greater peace,
security, and stability serve as the bedrock of our democracies and the
friendships between our countries.  From supporting Ukraine as it
defends its freedom against Russia’s invasion to advancing human rights,
tackling the climate crisis to addressing food insecurity, and
strengthening global health to promoting development, we will always
work together to tackle the world’s most pressing challenges. 
I am proud that the United States Senate took swift action to ratify
Sweden and Finland’s accession protocols to join the North Atlantic
Treaty Organization.  These great democracies and highly capable
partners will further fortify the most powerful defensive alliance in
the history of the world and bolster our efforts to defend democracy and
freedom everywhere.

     To honor Leif Erikson and to celebrate Nordic-American heritage,
the Congress, by joint resolution (Public Law 88-566) approved on
September 2, 1964, has authorized the President of the United States to
proclaim October 9th of each year as “Leif Erikson Day.”

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
October 9, 2022, as Leif Erikson Day.  I call upon all Americans to
celebrate the contributions of Nordic Americans to our Nation with
appropriate ceremonies, activities, and programs.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
seventh day of October, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-two,
and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred
and forty-seventh.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
