---
date: '2022-10-27'
published_time: 2022-10-27 09:19:25-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/10/27/a-proclamation-on-national-first-responders-day-2022/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National First Responders Day,\_2022"
---
 
     On National First Responders Day, we honor the bravery of our
Nation’s heroes who put their lives on the line for their fellow
Americans each and every day — from law enforcement officers who keep
our streets safe and firefighters who rush into burning buildings, to
relief workers who care for our families after natural disasters and
EMTs, paramedics, and other public health workers who provide
life-saving emergency care at a moment’s notice.  When tragedies strike,
these women and men are always there to help us, and we thank them for
their extraordinary service to our country.

     I have witnessed up close the courage, character, and valor of
first responders across the Nation.  In Florida, Puerto Rico, and
Kentucky, search and rescue teams swooped in to save lives in the
aftermath of Hurricanes Ian and Fiona and historic flooding.  In Idaho,
Colorado, New Mexico, and California, firefighters battled raging
wildfires, even when some of their own homes had been destroyed.  In
Buffalo, New York, a retired police officer lost his life protecting his
community from a mass shooter.  Living a life of service and sacrifice
is not just what first responders do — it is who they are.

     We ask more of our first responders today than ever before.  Being
a police officer not only means keeping our communities safe but also
acting as a counselor and a social worker.  Being a firefighter means
not only combatting fires in homes and businesses but also suiting up to
fight raging wildfires made more frequent and ferocious by the climate
crisis.  Throughout the pandemic, medical teams and community health
workers have been on the frontlines, working around the clock to save
lives. Yet, even when first responders are stretched thin, their courage
and commitment to service never wavers.

     That is why my Administration’s American Rescue Plan committed over
$10 billion in funds for public safety and violence prevention,
including billions of dollars to recruit and retain first responders,
avoid public safety layoffs, and purchase emergency vehicles and other
equipment to keep our communities safe.  We increased Federal funding
for State and local law enforcement by almost 30 percent last year.
 With my Safer America Plan, I am asking the Congress for additional
funding to provide our law enforcement officers with more mental health
and wellness resources and to recruit and hire 100,000 more police
officers who are trained in safe, effective, and accountable community
policing. When it comes to strengthening public safety, the answer is
not to defund the police:  It is to provide them with the tools,
training, and support they need to fight crime and build trust with the
communities they are sworn to protect.

     The same goes for fighting fires, which is why I, in partnership
with the Congress, substantially increased wages for Federal wildland
firefighters, implemented new programs to support their mental and
physical health, and created a wildland firefighter job series to
improve recruitment, retention, and professional opportunities.  The
American Rescue Plan and the 2023 Budget include combined increases of
$320 million for Federal firefighting grants, helping to fund 1,200 more
local firefighters, hundreds more emergency response vehicles, and
thousands of protective gear sets.  In addition, I signed into law the
Protecting America’s First Responders Act, reducing red tape for
firefighters and other first responders with disabilities to qualify for
critical benefits and extending benefits to surviving families of
firefighters who lost their lives in training. Because cancer is a
leading cause of death among firefighters, my Administration created a
special unit at the Department of Labor to help process cancer claims,
and I am calling on the Congress to pass the Federal Firefighters
Fairness Act to ensure cancer patients and their families get the
compensation they deserve.

     Today and every day, America’s first responders remain on alert and
on call, always there for us when we need them.  As we celebrate these
patriots who have answered the call of duty, we honor the memory of the
heroes we have lost.  They are woven into the fabric of our national
character — embodying the extraordinary selflessness, rare commitment to
others, and remarkable bravery that has inspired us for generations.
 Our first responders remind us that we are a great country because we
are made up of good people.  Let us renew our commitment as a Nation to
standing by them and their families just as they stand by us, shaping a
stronger, safer, and more resilient America.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
October 28, 2022, as National First Responders Day.  I call upon all the
people of the United States to observe this day with appropriate
programs, ceremonies, and activities to honor our brave first responders
and to pay tribute to those who have lost their lives in the line of
duty.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
twenty-seventh day of October, in the year of our Lord
two thousand twenty-two, and of the Independence of the United States
of America the two hundred and forty-seventh.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
