---
date: '2022-10-21'
published_time: 2022-10-21 14:12:12-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/10/21/a-proclamation-on-united-nations-day-2022/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on United Nations Day,\_2022"
---
 
    On United Nations Day, we celebrate this institution and its
enduring commitment to advancing peace, protecting human rights, and
promoting comity between nations and among the broader international
community.  Since its founding, the United Nations has shown that
countries with different histories yet shared purpose can join together
to bend the arc of history toward a freer and more just world.

     In the past year, United Nations member states have faced daunting
challenges:  growing food insecurity; the persistent challenge of
COVID-19 alongside additional infectious disease outbreaks; inflation;
and record heat, floods, and droughts — all of which have threatened
lives and livelihoods.  In addition, the consequences of Russia’s brazen
war and attempts to annex Ukrainian territory in violation of
international law have reverberated across the globe — not only
exacerbating food and refugee crises but also imperiling the very
foundation of a stable international rules-based order, for which the
United Nations Charter is the cornerstone.

     In the face of great upheaval, the United Nations has a critical
role to play — defending the Charter, championing human rights,
advancing sustainable development, and holding accountable those who
violate international law.  When Russia invaded Ukraine in February, an
overwhelming majority of United Nation member states sent a resounding
message unequivocally condemning the war and Russia’s policies of fear
and coercion.  Today, the United Nations and countries around the world
are providing life-saving aid to the Ukrainian people, supporting
refugees, responding to health emergencies, and affirming Ukraine’s
right to sovereignty and territorial integrity — core principles of
the United Nations Charter.  Likewise, the United Nations is playing an
essential part in our common effort to address the global challenges of
the twenty-first century, including tackling the climate crisis,
strengthening global health security and pandemic preparedness and
response, advancing human rights and gender equality, and feeding the
world.

     The United States is determined to continue strengthening its
relationships with United Nations member states as we advance an era of
relentless diplomacy across the world.  We will help developing
countries reach their climate goals and make a just transition to clean
energy, including by mobilizing funding.  We will lead the way in
bolstering the global health security architecture by partnering with
countries to prevent, detect, and respond to infectious disease threats;
strengthening and reforming the World Health Organization; and
marshalling resources to support the historic new Financial Intermediary
Fund for Pandemic Prevention, Preparedness, and Response at the World
Bank.

     As the largest financial contributor to the United Nations, the
United States is investing in this institution to advance the cause of
freedom, equality, opportunity, and dignity everywhere.  At the same
time, we are committed to strengthening the United Nations internally. 
Efforts such as structural reforms to make the United Nations more
inclusive, effective, and responsive to the needs of all member states,
such as by increasing the number of both permanent and non-permanent
representatives on the Security Council.  This includes permanent seats
for those nations we have long supported and permanent seats for
countries in Africa and Latin America and the Caribbean.

     For almost 80 years, the United Nations has brought member states
together to build a better world.  Just as the need for this institution
was plain in the aftermath of World War II and the atrocities of the
Holocaust, its power to stand for liberty over authoritarianism,
sovereignty over imperialism, and peace over war remains as vital
today.  The United Nations reminds us that, as President Truman said,
when countries can state their differences, face them, and find common
ground, we can author a new era of peace, progress, and hope for all
people everywhere.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
October 24, 2022, as United Nations Day.  I urge the Governors of the
United States and its Territories, and the officials of all other areas
under the flag of the United States, to observe United Nations Day with
appropriate ceremonies and activities.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-first
day of October, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-two, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-seventh.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
