---
date: '2022-10-11'
published_time: 2022-10-11 11:01:13-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/10/11/a-proclamation-on-international-day-of-the-girl-2022/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on  International Day Of The Girl,\_2022"
---
 
 Ten years ago, on the first International Day of the Girl, the United
States joined nations around the world to recognize the challenges that
girls face and commit to expanding opportunity and equality for them in
every part of the globe.  Today, on this 10th anniversary, we know that
when girls are empowered to dream big and reach their full potential,
the possibilities for our world are limitless.  From combating the
climate crisis and standing up for human rights to fighting for
equitable access to education, health care, and opportunity, girls are
strengthening democracies, powering economies, and enriching communities
everywhere.

     Despite their dynamic potential, we must also recognize on this day
that girls continue to face significant challenges in the United States
and around the world.  Hunger, homelessness, and lack of access to
adequate health care and educational opportunities threaten their health
and wellbeing and create barriers to their full and equal participation
in society.  

     Both at home and abroad, gender-based violence compromises their
safety — from child sexual abuse and exploitation to female genital
cutting and child marriage.  The direct and indirect impacts of
gender-based violence and the effect they have on girls’ potential and
opportunity reinforce our commitment to building a world where all
people can live free from violence or intimidation.

     That is why my Administration has prioritized unlocking doors of
opportunity and delivering the full measure of equity and dignity due to
all girls.  At home, we are championing equitable access to education,
equal pay, and access to jobs and job training so that when girls grow
up, they can choose their own path and lead the workforce of the
future.  We are taking action to expand girls’ access to health care,
which is critical to supporting their success.  I am committed to
addressing gender-based violence wherever it occurs — online, in school,
at work, or at home — which is why I am proud to have reauthorized and
strengthened the Violence Against Women Act.  And by supporting LGBTQI+
rights across this Nation, I affirm that everyone deserves respect,
protection, and belonging. 

     My Administration’s commitment to empowering girls extends beyond
our borders.  The United States is supporting equitable access to health
care by providing lifesaving HIV treatment to over 19 million people
worldwide.  We reached over two million adolescent girls and young women
just last year.  We have committed to improving access to education and
learning for 15 million girls and young women by 2025.  And we are
committed to ending the scourge of gender-based violence globally —
particularly in conflict zones, in humanitarian and refugee contexts,
and in the aftermath of natural disasters where women and girls face
distinct vulnerabilities.  

     My Administration is also investing in education and programs to
advance economic security for women and girls globally, including by
pledging $50 million to the World Bank’s Global Childcare Incentive Fund
and calling on the Congress to provide $200 million for the Gender
Equity and Equality Action Fund to support women’s economic
participation.  I will continue to speak out for women and girls around
the globe, including in Iran, where brave young women are demonstrating
to secure their basic rights, and I have called on the Congress to
double funding for programs that promote gender equality worldwide.

     When girls break barriers, they blaze trails for the generations
that follow.  Investing in their health, safety, education, and economic
security moves us closer to building more just, equitable societies and
flourishing democracies.  It helps us develop leaders across sectors and
enables us to create a strong workforce that is ready to meet the
challenges and opportunities ahead.  Together, we can prepare the next
dreamers and doers to shape a new and better future for us all.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
October 11, 2022, as International Day of the Girl.  I call upon the
people of the United States to observe this day with programs,
ceremonies, and activities that advance equality and opportunity for
girls everywhere.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
eleventh day of October, in the year of our Lord
two thousand twenty-two, and of the Independence of the United States
of America the two hundred and forty-seventh.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
