---
date: '2022-10-07'
published_time: 2022-10-07 14:28:55-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/10/07/a-proclamation-on-fire-prevention-week-2022/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Fire Prevention Week,\_2022"
---
 
     In 1920, President Woodrow Wilson proclaimed October 9th the first
Fire Prevention Day, calling on the public to learn more about the risks
of deadly fires and commemorating the thousands who had lost their lives
to these tragedies.  More than a century later, our Nation observes Fire
Prevention Week by renewing our commitment to fire safety and
preparedness and taking steps to prevent fires in our homes, schools,
workplaces, and the great outdoors.  We also honor the bravery and
heroism of our firefighters, who gear up time and again and rush into
harm’s way to protect our communities.

     In the past year, our Nation has suffered some of its deadliest
fires in recent history.  Americans have lost their homes and their
businesses.  Thousands have tragically lost their lives.  Wildfires are
becoming more frequent and ferocious, destroying neighborhoods and
natural resources and displacing families and communities.
 Super-charged by the climate crisis — which has exacerbated drought
conditions and increased temperatures — these devastating wildfires have
wiped out millions of acres of forest and so many homes.

     Whenever the First Lady and I visit with families in the aftermath
of a fire, we witness their incredible courage and resolve — even
though, in many cases, they have just lost everything.  We see people
step up for one another, neighbors take each other in, and local
businesses donate essential goods to those in need.  With each visit, we
are also reminded of the character of our Nation’s firefighters, who put
their lives on the line with remarkable selflessness and extraordinary
bravery that inspire everyone.

     For our firefighters and our communities, we have a responsibility
to act now and act fast to mitigate the risk of wildfires.  My
Administration is investing billions from our Bipartisan Infrastructure
Law in forest management, including the management of hazardous fuels in
high-risk areas and funding the Community Wildfire Defense Grants, which
are intended to help at-risk local communities and Tribes plan and
reduce the risk against wildfire, and we are safeguarding mature and
old-growth forests on Federal lands, a key component of decreasing fire
risk.  Through our Inflation Reduction Act, we are taking unprecedented
steps to protect forest health, prevent fires, and confront the climate
crisis — ushering in a new era of clean energy and reducing greenhouse
gas emissions by a billion metric tons.

     We are standing by our brave firefighters by substantially
increasing wages for Federal wildland firefighters, and have implemented
new programs to support their mental and physical health, and
established a wildland firefighter job series that will help improve
recruitment, retention, and opportunities for professional growth.  We
invested $350 billion from our American Rescue Plan to help States and
cities keep first responders like firefighters on the job during the
COVID-19 pandemic.  To help States pay for the cost of fighting
wildfires and help communities increase resilience, the Federal
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) has also approved dozens of Fire
Management Assistance Grants and is providing over one billion dollars
through its Building Resilient Infrastructure and Communities (BRIC)
program.

   To build on these actions, my Administration is educating the public
on fire safety.  This week’s theme — “Fire won’t wait.  Plan your
escape” — emphasizes how we must all prepare fire escape plans, test
smoke and carbon monoxide alarms every month and replace them every 10
years, implement appropriate building codes, and when possible, install
residential fire sprinklers.  For those who live in areas susceptible to
wildfire, regularly clearing brush and other vegetation around your
homes is another important way to stay safe. 

     With every home, school, and business destroyed in a fire, precious
memories are lost, livelihoods are jeopardized, and dreams are crushed. 
This National Fire Prevention Week, let us reflect on the importance of
remaining vigilant and learning more about fire safety.  Let us
acknowledge the remarkable service of our Nation’s firefighters and
honor the memory of those who have lost their lives protecting others. 
And let us all work to make these heroes’ jobs more manageable, keep our
neighbors safer, and reduce the risk of fires across our country.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
October 9 through October 15, 2022, as Fire Prevention Week.  On Sunday,
October 9, 2022, in accordance with Public Law 107–51, the flag of the
United States will be flown at half-staff at all Federal office
buildings in honor of the National Fallen Firefighters Memorial
Service.  I call on all Americans to participate in this observance with
appropriate programs and activities and by renewing their efforts to
prevent fires and their tragic consequences.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
seventh day of October, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-two,
and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred
and forty-seventh.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
