---
date: '2022-10-31'
published_time: 2022-10-31 12:39:01-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/10/31/a-proclamation-on-national-native-american-heritage-month-2022/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Native American Heritage Month,\_2022"
---
 
     During National Native American Heritage Month, we celebrate
Indigenous peoples past and present and rededicate ourselves to honoring
Tribal sovereignty, promoting Tribal self-determination, and upholding
the United States’ solemn trust and treaty responsibilities to Tribal
Nations.

     America has not always delivered on its promise of equal dignity
and respect for Native Americans.  For centuries, broken treaties,
dispossession of ancestral lands, and policies of assimilation and
termination sought to decimate Native populations and their ways of
life.  But despite this painful history, Indigenous peoples, their
governments, and their communities have persevered and flourished.  As
teachers and scholars, scientists and doctors, writers and artists,
business leaders and elected officials, heroes in uniform, and so much
more, they have made immeasurable contributions to our country’s
progress.

     We must do more to ensure that Native Americans have every
opportunity to succeed and that their expertise informs our Federal
policy-making.  That is why my Administration is engaging in meaningful
consultation with Tribal leaders, particularly when it comes to treaty
rights, reserved rights, management and stewardship of Federal lands,
consideration of Indigenous Knowledge, and other policies that affect
Native peoples.  That is also why I appointed Secretary Deb Haaland to
be the first-ever Native American Cabinet Secretary, and why more than
50 Native Americans now serve in significant roles across the executive
branch.

     Meanwhile, we are creating new jobs in Native American communities
and bolstering infrastructure in Tribal areas.  My Administration’s
American Rescue plan made the largest-ever investment in Indian Country
to help Tribal Nations combat the COVID-19 pandemic and to support
Tribal economic recovery.  My Administration’s Bipartisan Infrastructure
Law secured more than $13 billion exclusively for Native communities to
deliver high-speed internet to Tribal lands, build safer roads and
bridges, modernize sanitation systems, and provide clean drinking water
— all while putting people to work.  Through the Inflation Reduction
Act, we are lowering the price of health care coverage and capping drug
costs for Indigenous families.  We are empowering Tribes to fight
drought, improve fisheries, and transition to clean energy as part of
the most significant climate investment this Nation has ever made. 
Those investments include climate adaptation planning and community-led
relocation efforts, funding a Tribal Electrification Program to provide
power to unelectrified homes, making Environmental Justice Block Grants
available to help alleviate legacy pollution, bolstering conservation
programs across the country, and restoring protections for treasured
lands that Indigenous peoples have tirelessly stewarded, such as Bears
Ears and the Grand Staircase-Escalante National Monument.

     We are also helping Native communities heal from intergenerational
trauma caused by past policies.  Last year, the Department of the
Interior launched the Federal Indian Boarding School Initiative to shed
light on the harmful history of forced cultural assimilation at these
academic institutions.  We are investing in Tribal language
revitalization, protecting Tribal voting rights, and working with Tribal
partners to tackle the crisis of missing or murdered Indigenous people. 

     As we look ahead, my Administration will continue to write a new
and better chapter in the story of our Nation-to-Nation relationships.
 We will defend Tribal sovereignty, self-government, self-determination,
and the homelands of Tribal Nations.  We will support Tribal economies,
recognizing that Tribal governments provide a vast array of physical
infrastructure, social services, and good-paying jobs that benefit their
citizens and surrounding communities.  We will keep fighting for better
health care, child care, education, and housing in Tribal communities. 
We will always honor the profound impact Native Americans continue to
have in shaping our Nation and bringing us closer to the more perfect
Union we know we can and must be.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
November 2022 as National Native American Heritage Month.  I urge all
Americans, as well as their elected representatives at the Federal,
State, and local levels, to observe this month with appropriate
programs, ceremonies, and activities, and to celebrate November 25,
2022, as Native American Heritage Day.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirty-first
day of October, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-two, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-seventh.  

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
