---
date: '2022-10-31'
modified_time: 2022-10-31 12:49:12-04:00
published_time: 2022-10-31 12:48:52-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/10/31/a-proclamation-on-national-family-caregivers-month-2022/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Family Caregivers Month,\_2022"
---
 
     During National Family Caregivers Month, we recognize the love and
sacrifice of more than 50 million Americans providing crucial care and
medical assistance to parents, children, siblings, and other loved ones,
ensuring their health and dignity.

     Today, far too many Americans find themselves sandwiched between
the enormous tasks of supporting aging parents, raising young children,
and earning a living.  Others bear the responsibility of caring for
loved ones with a disability or looking after wounded, ill, or injured
service members and veterans who have sacrificed so much for us all.
 The truth is, at some point in our lives, each of us will likely need
to be a family caregiver — but the burden falls especially hard on those
who cannot afford support.  Women, people of color, and immigrants
shoulder a disproportionate share of the obligation, sometimes forced to
leave good jobs to instead provide care.  Their work is a profound
service to their families and to our Nation, but they are still too
often unseen, undervalued, and unpaid.

     No one should have to choose between a paycheck and looking after a
loved one.  My Administration is committed to easing that squeeze on
working families and getting caregivers the resources and respect they
deserve.  The Department of Health and Human Services’ National Strategy
to Support Family Caregivers outlines nearly 350 actions the Federal
Government can take to support family caregivers’ health, well-being,
and financial security.  Our American Rescue Plan provided $145 million
to help the National Family Caregiver Support Program deliver
counseling, training, and short-term relief to family and other informal
care providers.  We have expanded the Department of Veterans Affairs
Program of Comprehensive Assistance for Family Caregivers so more
veteran caregivers have the financial and mental health support they
deserve, and we helped launch the “Hidden Helpers” initiative to serve
the 2.3 million children now living with a disabled veteran.  Meanwhile,
we have pushed the Congress to lower child and elder care costs across
the country and provide paid family and medical leave.  We have more to
do to win that fight, and I will not give up.

     Family caregivers are the backbone of our Nation’s long-term care
system, doing essential work with devotion, often at great emotional and
financial cost.  We owe them.  It is time to bring their service out of
the shadows and celebrate and support them in living their own happy,
healthy, and fulfilling lives.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
November 2022 as National Family Caregivers Month.  I encourage all
Americans to reach out to those who provide care for our Nation’s family
members, friends, and neighbors in need, to honor and thank them.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirty-first
day of October, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-two, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-seventh.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
