---
date: '2022-10-07'
published_time: 2022-10-07 14:31:30-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/10/07/a-proclamation-on-national-school-lunch-week-2022/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National School Lunch Week,\_2022"
---
 
     During National School Lunch Week, we recommit to supporting the
National School Lunch Program that provides tens of millions of children
a year access to nutrition, dignity, and a fairer shot at brighter
futures, and we celebrate its role supporting American farmers and food
producers, building a stronger America for future generations.

     School meals remain a vital lifeline, supplying well-balanced, free
or low-cost meals to kids across the country since the program began in
1946.  Studies show these are often the most nutritious — and sometimes
the only — meals in a student’s day.  They improve student health,
making it easier for students to learn, and erode inequity while also
advancing our fight against childhood obesity.

     My Administration is committed to ending hunger in the United
States by 2030, making healthy school meals available to even more kids,
and supporting schools that pioneer new ways to improve nutritional
quality, whether for breakfast, lunch, or summer and afterschool meals.
 To that end, this September, I convened the first White House
Conference on Hunger, Nutrition, and Health in over 50 years, bringing
together anti-hunger, nutrition, and public health advocates; food
companies; health care providers; local, State, and Tribal governments;
and Federal agencies.  We released a national strategy to end hunger and
reduce diet-related diseases while easing disparities across underserved
communities — starting by expanding free school meals to 9 million more
kids by 2032.  Providing healthy food is central to children’s ability
to learn and thrive, and no child’s future should be determined by the
zip code they were born in or by the food their families can afford.

     This strategy builds on my Administration’s work to provide
emergency food and nutrition assistance to those in need through our
American Rescue Plan.  It builds on our $60 million investment in
Farm-to-School initiatives that benefit American farmers, connecting
them to local schools which become reliable markets.  We also made
historic strides in slashing child poverty to its lowest rate on record
by expanding the Child Tax Credit and through other actions. 

     Parents across our country want the same things for their kids:
 healthy food, clean water, good schools, and opportunities to dream big
and access all the possibilities America offers.  This week and always,
my Administration pledges to do everything in its power to end child
hunger and to put the promise of America in every child’s reach.  We
thank the farmers, farm workers, and ranchers, as well as the educators
and school nutrition professionals, who have gone above and beyond to
keep our kids fed during the COVID-19 pandemic and who work so hard
every day to make them strong for the future.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
October 9 through October 15, 2022, as National School Lunch Week.  I
call upon all Americans to recognize and commemorate all those who
operate the National School Lunch Program with activities that raise
awareness of the steadfast efforts in supporting the health and
well-being of our Nation’s children.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
seventh day of October, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-two,
and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred
and forty-seventh.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
