---
date: '2022-10-14'
published_time: 2022-10-14 08:31:32-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/10/14/executive-order-on-lowering-prescription-drug-costs-for-americans/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "Executive Order on Lowering Prescription Drug Costs for\_Americans"
---
 
     By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and
the laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered as
follows:  
  
     <span style="text-decoration: underline">Section</span> <span
style="text-decoration: underline">1</span>.  <span
style="text-decoration: underline">Policy</span>.  Too many Americans
face challenges paying for prescription drugs.  On average, Americans
pay two to three times as much as people in other countries for
prescription drugs, and one in four Americans who take prescription
drugs struggle to afford their medications.  Nearly 3 in 10 American
adults who take prescription drugs say that they have skipped doses, cut
pills in half, or not filled prescriptions due to cost.  
  
     On July 9, 2021, I signed Executive Order 14036 (Promoting
Competition in the American Economy), which directed various actions in
pursuit of my Administration’s policy to improve competition, increase
wages, and reduce prices for prescription drugs, among other goods and
services.  In response to Executive Order 14036, the Department of
Health and Human Services (HHS) submitted a report to the White House
Competition Council calling for bold legislative and administrative
actions to lower drug prices.   
  
     On August 16, 2022, I signed Public Law 117-169, commonly referred
to as the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022 (IRA), which will lower the
cost of prescription drugs and save millions of Americans hundreds or
thousands of dollars per year.  The IRA will protect Medicare
beneficiaries from catastrophic drug costs by phasing in a cap for
out-of-pocket costs at the pharmacy and establishing a $35 monthly cap
per prescription for insulin covered by a Medicare prescription drug
plan and insulin delivered through traditional pumps.  Starting this
January, Medicare beneficiaries with prescription drug coverage will pay
$0 out of pocket for recommended adult vaccines (including the shingles
vaccine).  The IRA will also require certain companies to pay Medicare
rebates if they increase the prices of drugs used by Medicare
beneficiaries faster than the rate of inflation.  In addition, the
Secretary of HHS (Secretary) will be able to negotiate prices for
selected high-cost prescription drugs for Medicare beneficiaries for the
first time ever.  Following the passage of the IRA, HHS has taken
critical steps to swiftly implement these historic provisions in order
to deliver results and lower health care costs for the American
people.  
  
     As my Administration works to implement the IRA, it is critical
that we take additional actions to complement the IRA and further drive
down prescription drug costs.  Within HHS, the Center for Medicare and
Medicaid Innovation (“Innovation Center”) tests health care payment and
delivery models to improve health care quality and make the delivery of
health care more efficient.  In June 2022, the Innovation Center
announced a new model to improve cancer care and lower health care costs
for cancer patients, including prescription drug costs.  The Innovation
Center provides my Administration and the American people with a useful
set of tools to help lower health care costs and improve quality of
care, and its work can advance the continued policy of my Administration
to lower the cost of prescription drugs.  
  
     <span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>. <span
style="text-decoration: underline">2</span>*.*  <span
style="text-decoration: underline">HHS Actions</span>.  In furtherance
of the policy set forth in section 1 of this order, the Secretary shall,
consistent with the criteria set out in 42 U.S.C. 1315a(b)(2), consider
whether to select for testing by the Innovation Center new health care
payment and delivery models that would lower drug costs and promote
access to innovative drug therapies for beneficiaries enrolled in the
Medicare and Medicaid programs, including models that may lead to lower
cost-sharing for commonly used drugs and support value-based payment
that promotes high-quality care.  The Secretary shall, not later than 90
days after the date of this order, submit a report to the Assistant to
the President for Domestic Policy enumerating and describing any models
that the Secretary has selected.  The report shall also include the
Secretary’s plan and timeline to test any such models.  Following the
submission of the report, the Secretary shall take appropriate actions
to test any health care payment and delivery models discussed in the
report.   
  
     <span style="text-decoration: underline">Sec</span>. <span
style="text-decoration: underline">3</span>.  <span
style="text-decoration: underline">General Provisions</span>.  (a)
 Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or otherwise
affect:  
          (i)   the authority granted by law to an executive department
or agency, or the head thereof; or  
          (ii)  the functions of the Director of the Office of
Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or
legislative proposals.  
     (b)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law
and subject to the availability of appropriations.  
     (c)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right
or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity
by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.  

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.

  
THE WHITE HOUSE,  
    October 14, 2022.
