---
date: '2022-10-06'
modified_time: 2022-10-06 15:17:33-04:00
published_time: 2022-10-06 15:16:23-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/10/06/granting-pardon-for-the-offense-of-simple-possession-of-marijuana/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Granting Pardon for the Offense of Simple Possession of\_\
  Marijuana"
---
 
     Acting pursuant to the grant of authority in Article II, Section 2,
of the Constitution of the United States, I, Joseph R. Biden Jr., do
hereby grant a full, complete, and unconditional pardon to (1) all
current United States citizens and lawful permanent residents who
committed the offense of simple possession of marijuana in violation of
the Controlled Substances Act, as currently codified at 21 U.S.C. 844
and as previously codified elsewhere in the United States Code, or in
violation of D.C. Code 48–904.01(d)(1), on or before the date of this
proclamation, regardless of whether they have been charged with or
prosecuted for this offense on or before the date of this proclamation;
and (2) all current United States citizens and lawful permanent
residents who have been convicted of the offense of simple possession of
marijuana in violation of the Controlled Substances Act, as currently
codified at 21 U.S.C. 844 and as previously codified elsewhere in the
United States Code, or in violation of D.C. Code 48–904.01(d)(1); which
pardon shall restore to them full political, civil, and other rights. 

My intent by this proclamation is to pardon only the offense of simple
possession of marijuana in violation of Federal law or in violation of
D.C. Code 48–904.01(d)(1), and not any other offenses related to
marijuana or other controlled substances.  No language herein shall be
construed to pardon any person for any other offense, including
possession of other controlled substances, whether committed prior,
subsequent, or contemporaneous to the pardoned offense of simple
possession of marijuana.  This pardon does not apply to individuals who
were non-citizens not lawfully present in the United States at the time
of their offense.

Pursuant to this proclamation, the Attorney General, acting through the
Pardon Attorney, shall administer and effectuate the issuance of
certificates of pardon to eligible applicants who have been charged or
convicted for the offense of simple possession of marijuana in violation
of the Controlled Substances Act, as currently codified at 21 U.S.C. 844
and as previously codified elsewhere in the United States Code, or in
violation of D.C. Code 48–904.01(d)(1).  The Attorney General, acting
through the Pardon Attorney, is directed to develop and announce
application procedures for certificates of pardon and to begin accepting
applications in accordance with such procedures as soon as reasonably
practicable.  The Attorney General, acting through the Pardon Attorney,
shall review all properly submitted applications and shall issue
certificates of pardon to eligible applicants in due course. 

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this sixth day of
October, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-two, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-seventh.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
