---
date: '2022-10-31'
published_time: 2022-10-31 12:44:53-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/10/31/a-proclamation-on-national-lung-cancer-awareness-month-2022/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Lung Cancer Awareness Month,\_2022"
---
 
    During National Lung Cancer Awareness Month, we are inspired by the
courage and fight of the millions of patients, survivors, caregivers,
doctors, researchers, and advocates battling this terrible disease — the
leading cause of cancer deaths in the United States.  For the loved ones
we have lost and all those we can save, we recommit to investing in
cutting-edge screening, prevention, and treatments, making them more
affordable and effective, and uniting this country in our movement to
end cancer as we know it.

     Over the past three decades, lung cancer case and death rates have
decreased dramatically nationwide — an encouraging trend we owe largely
to lower smoking rates and improved immunotherapies that use the body’s
own immune system to attack cancer.  But lung cancer is still an
overwhelmingly tough diagnosis.  Rural communities have seen stubbornly
high mortality rates, driven in part by increased tobacco use, and Black
men are disproportionately likely to develop and die from lung cancer.
 For the nearly quarter-million Americans facing this diagnosis each
year, the paralyzing fear of what is to come, the onslaught of new
information, and the cost of new treatment can make the journey
daunting.  

     When I was elected, I was determined to supercharge our Nation’s
work to cure cancer.  The First Lady and I set a goal of cutting the
cancer death rate by half in the next 25 years — boosting funding for
breakthroughs, turning more cancers from death sentences into chronic
diseases, and better supporting both patients and caregivers.  To
achieve that, we reignited the Cancer Moonshot that I began under
President Obama in 2016, convening our Nation’s first-ever Cancer
Cabinet.  I also launched the Advanced Research Projects Agency for
Health (ARPA-H). I had called for its creation as a candidate for
President; and after I was elected, I brought Democrats, Republicans,
and Independents in the Congress together to invest $1 billion in its
launch.  Modeled on the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, the
Pentagon program that has led to world-changing technologies like the
internet and GPS, ARPA-H will have a singular purpose — to find
breakthrough ways to prevent, diagnose, treat, and cure cancer and other
diseases, and free us all to live healthier lives.  We could soon see
vaccines that prevent cancer.  Easy blood tests that could detect it
early.  A simple shot, instead of grueling chemo.  The possibilities are
astounding.  I also signed an Executive Order to help ensure
biotechnology invented in America is made in America, so we will always
have access to these life-saving medications.

     Meanwhile, my Administration is working to make current lifesaving
care more affordable.  I signed the Inflation Reduction Act, which caps
prescription drug costs for seniors on Medicare at $2,000 per year,
including for expensive cancer drugs.  We are protecting and expanding
the Affordable Care Act, which requires insurance companies to cover
recommended cancer screenings and primary care visits, and prohibits
them from denying coverage to cancer survivors or others with
preexisting conditions.  In August, I signed the PACT Act to ensure
millions of veterans who were exposed to toxic substances during their
military service get the health care and benefits that they and their
families have earned.  We are also fighting to reduce people’s exposure
to carcinogens in the first place.  Because smoking is the leading cause
of lung cancer, the Food and Drug Administration recently proposed a
rule to ban menthol-flavored cigarettes and flavored cigars that are
popular among first-time smokers, particularly children.  The
Environmental Protection Agency is working to ban the ongoing use of
cancer-causing asbestos to protect American workers and families.  The
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention is helping cancer coalitions
across the country boost access to screening and helping people quit
smoking.

     This month, I call on the private sector to continue its search for
new treatments and a cure for lung cancer, to lower drug prices, to
share more data to improve patient outcomes, and to promote smoking
cessation.  But there are also things that each of us can do to fight
lung cancer in our own lives.  For many, that starts with quitting
smoking.  You can reach a free expert to help you quit right away at
BeTobaccoFree.gov, or by calling 877-44U-QUIT.  Doctors across my
Administration recommend that anyone over 50 who has smoked a pack or
more a day for many years and currently smokes or has quit within the
last 15 years should get an annual lung cancer screening.  Beating
cancer is not a red issue or a blue issue — it is something that affects
us all and that we can all do together, drawing on the best talents,
resources, and grit that this country has to offer.  I am unwilling to
postpone a cure.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
November 2022 as National Lung Cancer Awareness Month.  I call upon the
people of the United States to speak with their doctors and health care
providers to learn more about lung cancer.  I encourage citizens,
government agencies, private businesses, nonprofit organizations, the
media, and other interested groups to increase awareness about what
Americans can do to prevent, detect, and treat lung cancer.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
thirty-first day of October, in the year of our Lord
two thousand twenty-two, and of the Independence of the United States
of America the two hundred and forty-seventh.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
