---
date: '2022-10-14'
published_time: 2022-10-14 11:23:08-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/10/14/a-proclamation-on-national-forest-products-week-2022/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Forest Products Week,\_2022"
---
 
     During National Forest Products Week, we give thanks for the beauty
of our forests and the bounty they provide:  from the lumber in our
homes and the paper we print to the medicines we take, the water we
drink, and the air we breathe.  We recommit this week to sustainable
stewardship and management of our forests — not only preserving our
forests’ splendor for recreation or sacred Tribal ceremonies but also
for safeguarding key economic resources, supporting millions of jobs,
and helping to ease the climate crisis.

     The United States is the world’s largest producer of forest
products, and every day, American foresters, loggers, mill workers,
carpenters, scientists, restoration specialists, outdoor recreation
workers, and others rely on forests for their livelihoods.  But across
America and the world, forests are under threat.  Wildfires are growing
more frequent and ferocious, super-charged by the climate crisis and
decades of poor forest management.  Globally, illegal deforestation
devastates habitats and impedes forests’ essential role in preserving
biodiversity, filtering water, and absorbing carbon from the atmosphere,
which slows our fight against climate change.

     My Administration is committed to conserving, restoring, and
revitalizing forests at home and abroad to preserve our environment and
protect an important pillar of our economy.  We have taken the most
aggressive climate action in American history, including new investments
in forest health and resilience, and fire prevention.  The historic
Bipartisan Infrastructure Law and Inflation Reduction Act put Americans
to work combating wildfires, safeguarding mature and old-growth forests
on Federal lands while also planting over a billion new trees.  We are
also committed to working with global partners to fight deforestation
and are cracking down on the trafficking of illegally logged wood.  I
have signed an Executive Order to protect forests here at home as well,
partnering with Tribal nations, local governments, and non-profits to
boost conservation and create jobs.  The order expressly recognizes the
importance of Indigenous knowledge, practices, and Tribal treaty rights
in forest management.  I have used my authority under the Antiquities
Act to restore protections to some of our most treasured national
monuments, including places that have been sacred to Native peoples
since time immemorial. 

     Meanwhile, innovations in sustainable wood manufacturing are
creating good-paying union jobs on construction sites across the
country.  To further those gains, my Administration has awarded Forest
Service Wood Innovations and Community Wood grants across the country.
 These market-based actions, along with other Federal and locally led
efforts to conserve and restore forests nationwide, will bring us closer
to reaching our “America the Beautiful” goal of voluntarily conserving
at least 30 percent of our lands and waters by 2030 while also
supporting hard working American families.

     To recognize the importance of the many products generated by our
Nation’s forests, the Congress, by Public Law 86–753 (36 U.S.C. 123), as
amended, has designated the week beginning on the third Sunday in
October of each year as “National Forest Products Week” and has
authorized and requested the President to issue a proclamation in
observance of this week.  In honor of this year’s National Forest
Products Week, my Administration will continue working across public,
Tribal, and private lands to conserve America’s forests and protect the
vital resources they provide.  Together, we can strengthen our economy
and pass on a healthier planet to our children and our grandchildren.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
October 16 through October 22, 2022, as National Forest Products Week. 
I call upon the people of the United States to join me in this
observance and in recognizing all Americans who are responsible for the
stewardship of our Nation’s beautiful, forested landscapes.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
fourteenth day of October, in the year of our Lord
two thousand twenty-two, and of the Independence of the United States
of America the two hundred and forty-seventh.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
