---
date: '2022-10-07'
published_time: 2022-10-07 14:27:47-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/10/07/a-proclamation-on-indigenous-peoples-day-2022/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Indigenous Peoples\u2019 Day,\_2022"
---
 
     On Indigenous Peoples’ Day, we honor the sovereignty, resilience,
and immense contributions that Native Americans have made to the world;
and we recommit to upholding our solemn trust and treaty
responsibilities to Tribal Nations, strengthening our Nation-to-Nation
ties.

     For centuries, Indigenous Peoples were forcibly removed from
ancestral lands, displaced, assimilated, and banned from worshiping or
performing many sacred ceremonies.  Yet today, they remain some of our
greatest environmental stewards.  They maintain strong religious beliefs
that still feed the soul of our Nation.  And they have chosen to serve
in the United States Armed Forces at a higher rate than any other
group.  Native peoples challenge us to confront our past and do better,
and their contributions to scholarship, law, the arts, public service,
and more continue to guide us forward.

     I learned long ago that Tribal Nations do better when they make
their own decisions.  That is why my Administration has made respect for
Tribal sovereignty and meaningful consultation with Tribal Nations the
cornerstone of our engagement and why I was proud to restore the White
House Council on Native American Affairs.  To elevate Indigenous voices
across our Government, I appointed Deb Haaland as Secretary of the
Interior, the first Native American to serve as a cabinet secretary,
along with more than 50 other Native Americans now in significant roles
across the executive branch.

     My Administration is also directly delivering for Native
communities — creating jobs, providing critical services, and restoring
and preserving sacred Tribal lands.  We have made the biggest investment
in Indian Country in history, securing billions for pandemic recovery,
infrastructural improvements, and climate change resilience, and we are
working together with Tribal Nations to end the scourge of violence
against Indigenous women and girls.

     These efforts are a matter of dignity, justice, and good faith. 
But we have more to do to help lift Tribal communities from the shadow
of our broken promises, to protect their right to vote, and to help them
access other opportunities that their ancestors were long denied.  On
Indigenous Peoples’ Day, we celebrate indigenous history and our new
beginning together, honoring Native Americans for shaping the contours
of this country since time immemorial.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, do hereby proclaim October 10, 2022, as Indigenous
Peoples’ Day.  I call upon the people of the United States to observe
this day with appropriate ceremonies and activities.  I also direct that
the flag of the United States be displayed on all public buildings on
the appointed day in honor of our diverse history and the Indigenous
peoples who contribute to shaping this Nation. 

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
seventh day of October, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-two,
and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred
and forty-seventh.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
