---
date: '2022-10-14'
published_time: 2022-10-14 11:29:13-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/10/14/a-proclamation-on-blind-americans-equality-day-2022/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Blind Americans Equality Day,\_2022"
---
 
     On Blind Americans Equality Day, we celebrate the essential
contributions of blind and low-vision Americans, whose talents and
strength shape every industry and every community.

     In 1964, President Lyndon B. Johnson issued the first Presidential
Proclamation honoring the independent spirit of blind Americans and
calling on us all to help build a more accessible Nation.  Twenty-six
years later, in 1990, we came together as Democrats and Republicans to
pass the most sweeping civil rights legislation in a generation — the
Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) — improving the lives of the now
more than 60 million Americans living with a disability, including more
than 7 million with vision loss.  I was enormously proud to cosponsor
that bill as a United States Senator, and as President, I am making sure
that we deliver on its full promise to end discrimination, increase
independence, and expand opportunity for everyone.

     The ADA has been transformational, but it did not end our work.  As
long as disabled Americans — including those who are blind and
low-vision — face barriers to equality, opportunity, and freedom, we
have more to do.  That is why, on my first day in office, I was proud to
sign an Executive Order establishing a government-wide commitment to
equity for all.  I am proud to have appointed the first-ever White House
Disability Policy Director and to work every day to make sure that the
dignity and rights of disabled and blind Americans are championed in
every policy that we pursue.

     During the pandemic, my American Rescue Plan has helped States
better cover low-income adults living with disabilities on Medicaid and
given schools funding to reopen safely, helping to better serve students
with vision loss and other disabilities.  My Administration launched the
Disability Information and Access Line to help blind and other disabled
people schedule COVID-19 tests and vaccinations, and we have expanded
the availability of accessible at-home tests for blind and low-vision
Americans.  Meanwhile, my Bipartisan Infrastructure Law is expanding
access to transit for blind and other disabled Americans by updating old
train stations and airports.  The Labor Department is defending the
rights of workers with disabilities to receive a fair wage.  My
Administration is creating jobs by funding State and local governments,
employers, and nonprofits that hire more people with disabilities,
including vision loss.  Additionally, the Department of Education is
funding projects to teach more STEM teachers braille, in turn expanding
access to STEM education for blind and low-vision students.  I have also
signed Executive Orders to start to remove barriers that keep too many
people with disabilities from voting.

     Across the board, we have been making great progress, but I know
there is much more to do to guarantee every American the same fair shot
to contribute, thrive, and succeed.  I will keep fighting to get more
disabled and blind Americans support and care in their own communities,
as well as the workplace accommodations they deserve.  I am proud to
join so many fierce advocates in this cause, and I call today on all
Americans to help us build on the ADA’s promise — moving our Nation
closer to realizing its full potential as a place that is truly for
everyone.

     By joint resolution approved on October 6, 1964 (Public Law 88-628,
as amended), the Congress authorized October 15 of each year as “White
Cane Safety Day,” which is recognized today as “Blind Americans Equality
Day,” to honor the contributions of blind and low-vision Americans. 

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
October 15, 2022, as Blind Americans Equality Day.  I call upon all
government officials, educators, volunteers and all the people of the
United States to mark this day with appropriate programs, ceremonies,
and activities.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
fourteenth day of October, in the year of our Lord
two thousand twenty-two, and of the Independence of the United States
of America the two hundred and forty-seventh.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
