---
date: '2022-10-17'
published_time: 2022-10-17 10:53:24-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/10/17/a-proclamation-on-the-50th-anniversary-of-the-clean-water-act/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on the 50th Anniversary of the Clean Water\_Act"
---
 
     Fifty years ago, the Congress passed the Clean Water Act of 1972,
revolutionizing America’s responsibility to protect and restore the
vital waterways that sustain our communities, our economy, and our
ecosystems.

     Before this landmark legislation, America’s waters were in crisis,
often flooded and even on fire with toxic pollution and cancer-causing
contaminants. Industrial waste and sewage threatened our drinking water,
and wetlands disappeared at an alarming rate. The Clean Water Act met
these challenges head-on, setting and enforcing national water quality
standards, restricting pollution, and investing in wastewater treatment
and better wetlands management.

     Five decades later, our Nation’s waters are dramatically cleaner.
 Once dead rivers and lakes are now flourishing with wildlife.  People
have returned to boat, fish, and swim.  Sacred waters that Tribal
Nations have relied on for generations are clean again.  This is a
testament to the tireless partnerships that the Environmental Protection
Agency has forged with State, local, and Tribal governments.  It is a
powerful tribute not only to the activists who first sounded the alarm,
built a movement, and fought to pass this powerful law but also to the
Americans everywhere who have since done so much to help enforce it,
safeguarding our waterways and taking on polluters in court.

     Today, we still face serious threats to clean water — from climate
change-driven droughts and rising sea levels to long-standing
environmental injustices that have left too many communities without
safe drinking water.  That is why my Administration restored Federal
protections to hundreds of thousands of streams, wetlands, and waterways
and is working across the Federal Government to combat pollution from
deadly per- and polyfluoroalkyl substances.  Our historic Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law makes our Nation’s biggest-ever investment in water,
clearing legacy pollution, helping replace lead pipes across the
country, and building more resilient infrastructure so that every child
in America can turn on the faucet at home or school for safe drinking
water.  The Inflation Reduction Act takes America’s most aggressive
climate action ever, helping to protect the world’s waterways long into
the future.

     As we celebrate the anniversary of this law, my Administration is
more committed than ever to continuing its legacy, providing access to
safe water, and restoring a healthier planet.  The Clean Water Act is a
powerful reminder of Americans’ ability to make change for the better
when we work together.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
October 18, 2022, as the 50th Anniversary of the Clean Water Act.  I
call upon all Americans to observe this milestone, recognize the
significant contribution the Clean Water Act has made to restoring our
Nation’s waters, consider the crucial role clean water plays in each of
our lives, and recommit to protecting our shared water resources.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
seventeenth day of October, in the year of our Lord
two thousand twenty-two, and of the Independence of the United States
of America the two hundred and forty-seventh.

 JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR
