---
date: '2022-10-31'
published_time: 2022-10-31 12:29:44-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/10/31/a-proclamation-on-national-veterans-and-military-families-month-2022/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Veterans And Military Families Month,\_2022"
---
 
     This month, our Nation honors the strength and sacrifices of the
families, caregivers, and survivors of our veterans and our current
service members.  They may not wear uniforms, but their service is
essential to our national security and the character of our Nation.  We
owe them a debt of gratitude that we can never fully repay.

     Constant tours, deployments, and rotations are difficult for our
military families.  Jill and I have personally experienced the anxious
pride that parents feel seeing their child in uniform.  We have marveled
at the devotion of military families and their resilience to uproot
their lives every few years and move to new communities.  We honor the
stalwart courage and resolve of veteran families caring for their loved
ones when their service in uniform concludes.  We grieve alongside
families of the fallen who have lost a piece of their soul.  That is why
I take so seriously the sacred obligation to prepare and equip our
service members when we send them into harm’s way and to care for them
and their families when they return home.

     Since coming to office, I have signed into law important expansions
of services and benefits to support our veterans and their families,
improved VA health care and benefits for veterans exposed to burn pits
and other toxic substances through the PACT Act, and made historic
reforms to the military justice system that will enhance safety and
protections for service members and their families impacted by sexual
assault and domestic violence.  The First Lady’s Joining Forces
initiative is helping military spouses find jobs, connecting military
children with better education, and helping to ensure that military and
veteran families, caregivers, and survivors have what they need to
thrive.  My Administration has also released a comprehensive public
health strategy to reduce military and veteran suicides, which will
guide our efforts to stand with families and protect the lives of our
Nation’s heroes.

     To be a veteran or a service member is to have endured and survived
challenges most Americans will never know.  To be the family of one of
those proud patriots is to sacrifice more for our country than most
Americans will ever give.  During National Veterans and Military
Families Month, we pay homage to the unrelenting bravery and dedication
of all who wear the uniform and to the unwavering love and support of
all who serve alongside them.  Families who put their lives on hold so
our military can hold the line represent the best of America, and
we will always remember what they do for our Nation.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
November 2022 as National Veterans and Military Families Month.  I call
upon the people of the United States to honor veterans and military
families with appropriate ceremonies and activities.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirty-first
day of October, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-two, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-seventh.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
