---
date: '2022-10-31'
published_time: 2022-10-31 12:56:26-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/10/31/a-proclamation-on-national-adoption-month-2022/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Adoption Month,\_2022"
---
 
     During National Adoption Month, let us celebrate families that
create safe and supportive homes and families that are made whole
through adoption, and let us continue working to ensure that every child
has a loving family to call their own.

     I am committed to helping families pay for the costs of adopting a
child, which is why I have called for the adoption tax credit to be made
fully refundable.  This would enable devoted adoptive families to worry
less about the costs of welcoming children into their homes and focus
more on laying the supportive foundation for full and happy lives.  I
have also proposed extending the adoption tax credit to legal
guardianships — including grandparents, aunts, uncles, and other
relatives — which would make it easier for loving family members to care
for children who need their support.  This measure could also help
reduce racial inequities in our country’s child welfare system, which
too often render some children of color more likely to be removed from
their homes and cut off from their families and communities.

     At the same time, my Administration is fighting discrimination in
the adoption process.  As part of my Executive Order on Advancing
Equality for Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Queer, and Intersex
Individuals, we are partnering with State child welfare agencies to
remove barriers and combat biases that can make it harder for LGBTQI+
families to adopt.  The Department of Health and Human Services will
provide training and technical assistance to State child welfare
agencies in order to better support LGBTQI+ youth, whose needs are often
unmet in the foster care system, and take steps to ensure all youth are
placed in supportive environments.  Additionally, we are committed to
ensuring that older adolescents transitioning from the foster care
system have access to housing and education and can pay their bills and
prepare for adulthood, which is why I have proposed increasing funding
for the John H. Chafee Successful Transition to Adulthood program by 70
percent.

     This National Adoption Month, we recognize all the adoptive and
kinship families across America who change children’s lives for the
better.  We give thanks for the foster families who love, care for, and
provide for our Nation’s foster youth as well as the dedicated
professionals who are invested in these children’s futures.  We send our
encouragement to everyone still waiting for the chance to adopt and grow
their family.  We rededicate ourselves to ensuring that all children
have the unconditional love of a permanent home.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
November 2022 as National Adoption Month.  I encourage all Americans to
honor this month by helping the children and youth in your communities
find homes where they can thrive.  Through our collective action, we can
connect children and youth with their forever families and give them a
brighter future.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirty-first
day of October, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-two, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-seventh.

                           JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
