---
date: '2022-10-31'
published_time: 2022-10-31 12:40:42-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/10/31/a-proclamation-on-national-alzheimers-disease-awareness-month-2022/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Alzheimer\u2019s Disease Awareness Month,\_2022"
---
 
   

     During National Alzheimer’s Disease Awareness Month, we honor and
support the millions of brave Americans who have been diagnosed with
Alzheimer’s, along with the selfless family members and caregivers who
stand by their sides throughout the long course of this heartbreaking
disease.

     Alzheimer’s is common and especially cruel, robbing people of their
memories, thoughts, and identity over many years.  Across the Nation,
this epidemic is growing:  In the next 30 years, the number of Americans
with Alzheimer’s is expected to reach nearly 14 million, straining
families and our health care system.  Fortunately, we are on the cusp of
life-saving advances that can forever change the course of the disease.

     This year, my Administration launched the transformational Advanced
Research Projects Agency for Health (ARPA-H) at the National Institutes
of Health, which is investing a billion dollars in cutting-edge research
to prevent, treat, and cure Alzheimer’s and other deadly diseases. 
Modeled on the Pentagon program that brought us game-changing
technologies like the Internet and GPS, ARPA-H will support bold ideas
that neither traditional research nor the private sector is willing to
pursue, driving new biomedical breakthroughs.  At the same time, the
Department of Health and Human Services is investing in research and
technology that can keep Alzheimer’s patients living longer in their own
homes; training caregivers to support them; and educating Americans
about early warning signs of Alzheimer’s, dementia risks, and brain
health generally.  Meanwhile, I signed the Inflation Reduction Act,
which will protect Alzheimer’s patients from high bills at the pharmacy
by capping what they pay at $2,000 per year.  Throughout our work, my
Administration is committed to keeping older Black and Brown Americans,
who are more than twice as likely to be affected by dementias, at the
center of our push to understand these diseases.

     Curing Alzheimer’s is not a partisan issue.  The disease does not
discriminate between red and blue.  Beating it is something we can do
together, in honor of the loved ones we have lost or those who are
slipping away, and in support of the remarkable caregivers, doctors,
researchers, and advocates who are fighting on their behalf today.  Our
Nation is on the cusp of tremendous scientific progress, and I pledge
the best of our energies to support caregivers, improve Alzheimer’s
treatments, and work towards a cure that will free future generations
from the specter of this disease.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
November 2022 as National Alzheimer’s Disease Awareness Month.  I call
on the people of the United States of America to recognize their fellow
citizens living with Alzheimer’s, along with their families and
caregivers.  I also encourage all Americans to visit
[Alzheimers.gov](http://www.Alzheimers.gov) for resources and
information on living with or caring for someone with Alzheimer’s
disease.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirty-first
day of October, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-two, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-seventh.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
