---
date: '2022-10-06'
published_time: 2022-10-06 15:26:34-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/10/06/a-proclamation-on-national-manufacturing-day-2022/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Manufacturing Day,\_2022"
---
 
 Manufacturing is the backbone of America, powering our economy and
building our middle class.  Over the past year and a half, we have been
making “Buy American” a reality, not just a slogan, and bringing jobs
and companies home.  This year’s National Manufacturing Day comes in the
midst of an American manufacturing boom, as we celebrate the strength
and resilience of the American worker and recommit to the investments
and innovation that will ensure the future is Made in America.

     Throughout the pandemic, even as factories closed and supply chains
stalled, American workers showed incredible ingenuity and resolve to
keep our country moving forward.  Today, we are experiencing the
strongest manufacturing rebound at this point in a presidency in 3
decades, adding 668,000 manufacturing jobs since my Administration
began.  Employers have announced $200 billion in new manufacturing
investments here since 2021, and manufacturing construction has more
than doubled as companies are betting on America again.  But to really
guarantee our economic strength and national security, we have to do
more by investing in infrastructure, innovation, and our own supply
chains to bring prices down and good-paying union jobs home.

     That is why last fall, I signed the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law,
a once-in-a-generation investment in America’s roads, bridges, railways,
and ports, which will boost demand for American iron, steel, and
construction materials.  It is why we are helping to train the workforce
of the future — supporting STEM education and tech hubs across the
country, pushing companies to partner with community colleges and
technical schools, and bolstering Registered Apprenticeships and
pre-apprenticeship programs funded by the American Rescue Plan.  It is
why we are using the Government’s purchasing power to grow the market
for American-made goods.  One of the first things I did as President was
tighten Federal “Buy American” provisions, raising the amount of
required domestic content from 55 percent to 75 percent.  When the
Federal Government spends taxpayer dollars, it should spend them on
American-made products.

     Meanwhile, we are investing in tomorrow’s biggest industries —
clean energy; advanced biotechnology; quantum computing; and
semiconductors, the computer chips that power everything from
smartphones to dishwashers and cars.  In August, I signed the CHIPS and
Science Act, securing significant funding for domestic manufacturing and
research and development.  America invented the semiconductor; this law
brings it back home — and it is already drawing tens of billions of
dollars in private-sector investment and will create tens of thousands
of jobs.  I also recently signed the game-changing Inflation Reduction
Act, which allocates a record $369 billion to fight climate change,
boosting demand for energy-efficient appliances, homes, and cars and
creating millions of good-paying clean-energy and clean-manufacturing
jobs.

     America is the only Nation in the world that can be defined in a
single word:  possibilities.  American manufacturing makes those
possibilities real.  Today, on National Manufacturing Day, thousands of
manufacturers across the country are opening their doors to give a new
generation of students, teachers, and builders a glimpse of the
opportunities that a career in modern manufacturing offers.  We stand
with them and commit to winning not just the jobs of today but the jobs
and industries of tomorrow.  The United States is in a position to
outcompete the world once again.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
October 7, 2022, as National Manufacturing Day.  I encourage all
Americans to look for ways to get involved in your community and join me
in participating in National Manufacturing Day, and, most importantly,
buy American.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
sixth day of October, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-two,
and of the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred
and forty-seventh.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
