---
date: '2022-10-14'
published_time: 2022-10-14 11:40:22-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/10/14/a-proclamation-on-national-character-counts-week-2022/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on\_National Character Counts Week,\_2022"
---
 
     During National Character Counts Week, we reflect on the highest
standards of character — integrity, courage, empathy, decency, and
respect — that lift each other up, bring our communities together, and
make our Nation stronger.

     Through simple acts of kindness and inspiring demonstrations of
selflessness, we see the best of America’s character every day.  We see
it in teachers who take extra time after school to practice reading with
the students who are falling behind, in our scientists and essential
workers who create and deliver life-saving products to people in need,
and in our first responders who rush towards danger to save others no
matter the cost as we have seen this month with Hurricane Ian.  We see
how character counts in our service members who give their all to
protect the freedoms we hold so dear.  Time and again, Americans prove
that we are a great Nation because we are a good people.

     Since coming into office, I have championed policies that reflect
the values our Nation stands for at its best.  In my State of the Union
Address, I put forth a Unity Agenda to rally our Nation to beat the
opioid epidemic, take on the mental health crisis, support our brave
veterans and their families, and end cancer as we know it.  I reaffirmed
our Nation’s commitment to standing against hate, racism, and bigotry by
hosting a first-of-its kind “United We Stand” Summit at the White House
and announcing new measures to counter hate-fueled violence.  In
September, my Administration released a national strategy to end hunger
as we know it by 2030, a moral duty we all share.  In everything we do,
including rebuilding our economy and leaving no one behind, fighting
climate change and protecting the health of our public and our planet,
and reducing costs of every day issues talked about around the kitchen
table — like prescription drugs, health care, and energy bills — we see
how character counts in how we choose to see one another as fellow
Americans and treat one another with the dignity and respect we all
deserve.

     Now as much as ever, as Americans confront new threats to our
personal rights, the pursuit of justice, and the rule of law that try
the very soul of this Nation, we must all strive even harder to remember
that character counts.  I believe in the character of the people of this
Nation, and I have never been more optimistic about our future than I am
today.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
October 16 through October 22, 2022, as National Character Counts Week. 
Now and throughout the year, I encourage all Americans to engage in
efforts that honor and express the best attributes of our character,
extend the hand of fellowship to their neighbors, and unite in service
to their communities.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
fourteenth day of October, in the year of our Lord
two thousand twenty-two, and of the Independence of the United States
of America the two hundred and forty-seventh.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
