---
date: '2022-10-12'
published_time: 2022-10-12 19:34:56-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/10/12/a-proclamation-on-establishment-of-the-camp-hale-continental-divide-national-monument/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Establishment of the Camp Hale-Continental Divide National\_\
  Monument"
---
 
     The Camp Hale and Tenmile Range area lies along the continental
divide in north-central Colorado and is treasured for its historical and
spiritual significance, stunning geological features, and unique
wildlife and plants.  The rugged landscape serves as a living testament
to a pivotal moment in America’s military history, as these peaks and
valleys forged the elite soldiers of the famed 10th Mountain Division —
the Army’s first and only mountain infantry division — which helped free
Europe from the grip of Nazi control in World War II.  The area is also
foundational to preserving and interpreting the story of 10th Mountain
Division veterans who, after their return from World War II, applied the
skills they learned in the Camp Hale and Tenmile Range area to establish
America’s skiing and outdoor recreation industry.  Today, the largely
undeveloped peaks, slopes, and valleys of the Camp Hale and Tenmile
Range area provide veterans, their families, and other visitors with a
place to learn the history of the 10th Mountain Division; to honor their
sacrifices and contributions to our Nation; and to experience firsthand
the formidable environs that taught American soldiers to endure extreme
mountain terrain, deep snow, and punishing cold.  This endurance proved
pivotal to the success of the United States and its allies in World War
II when, in February 1945, the 10th Mountain Division successfully
scaled a 1,500-foot cliff face to capture a German position in the
Apennine Mountains, helping the Allies to break through the German
defensive line in Italy and push further into Europe.

     The Army began construction of Camp Hale in April of 1942 in the
Pando Valley after the Department of Agriculture authorized the War
Department to use 179,000 acres of National Forest lands to train
soldiers to climb and ski in preparation for operations in harsh, cold,
high-altitude areas. ** **The valley floor — which sits at 9,200 feet in
elevation — was broad enough to hold a large encampment, and the Eagle
River, which passes through the valley, provided a year-round water
supply.  Near the encampment were training grounds fit for the Army’s
purpose, including the rugged Tenmile Range’s rock faces, deep snow, and
frigid temperatures.  The site also took advantage of existing
infrastructure, such as the nearby rail system and highway, which remain
important arteries through the Rocky Mountains. 

     Visitors can see traces of the life of the thousands of young
servicemen and approximately 200 servicewomen who were stationed at Camp
Hale along the valley floor, surrounded on all sides by forested hills
and mountains stretching up to more than 14,000 feet.  At its height,
Camp Hale sprawled across nearly 1,500 acres.  Its 1,000 buildings
included 245 barracks (which could house more than 15,000 soldiers),
mess halls, warehouses, training facilities, firing ranges,
administrative buildings, stables, corrals, a veterinary center,
theaters, chapels, a field house, and a hospital.  The camp also
featured parade grounds, recreation areas, gunnery ranges, a combat
range, ski hills, a stockade, a motor pool, railyards, and an extensive
road and bridge network.  Several contiguous areas on the side slopes of
the valley also served as training areas for skiing and rock climbing,
storage areas for ammunition, and target training sites.

     Between April and November of 1942, hundreds of construction
workers — many living in harsh conditions in tents, trailers, and even
in cars and trucks — rushed to build Camp Hale.  Racial discrimination
against Hispanic and Black construction workers at the camp caught
national attention and led to an investigation by the War Production
Board, prompting the United States Army to issue an order against racial
discrimination in war construction projects in the region.  This history
— and the history of segregation within the Army itself during World War
II — is a critical component of the experience of visiting and
understanding Camp Hale.

     Camp Hale opened for operation on November 16, 1942.  Following the
conclusion of the war, the Army used the camp only sporadically until
its permanent closure in 1965.  At that time, many facilities were
removed or buried; however, much of the camp remains visible today, and
the site was placed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1992.
 The layout of the camp can be discerned from its grid-like road system,
formed by 3 major north-south roads and 21 east-west crossing streets,
many of which are identifiable or still in use.  Concrete foundations
for the warehouse area, the Corps Area Service Command compound, the
division headquarters, and the barracks extend across the valley floor.
 In the center of the site lie remnants of the field house, including
buttresses and the floor slab.  Evidence of six ammo bunkers in the
magazine area, which provided ammunition storage for the camp, occupy a
small saddle on the northeast side of the valley.  On a hill just to the
south of the magazine area remain the footers of the four water tanks
that supplied the camp.  At the eastern edge of the camp, the rifle
range remains largely intact, and the range’s target butts — a long
series of rooms built of reinforced concrete — can still be seen.  The
area around the camp also includes remnants of the training that
occurred there:  the original pitons used to train technical climbing
are embedded in several northeastern cliffs, and the remains of a tow
and lift can be seen along two ski hills at the south end of the valley.

     While Camp Hale was in operation, training exercises occurred among
the peaks and slopes around Camp Hale and in the Tenmile Range.  Today,
the peaks that remain undeveloped around Camp Hale — which include Pearl
Peak, Sheep Mountain, and Taylor Hill — and in the Tenmile Range — which
include Peaks 1, 3, 4, and 5; the western slopes of Peaks 6 through 10;
Tenmile Peak; and several other named peaks (such as the 14,625-foot
Quandary Peak) that extend to the south — are largely unchanged since
the 1940s.  The entire landscape of the Camp Hale and Tenmile Range
area, therefore, serves as a kind of living museum, allowing visitors to
imagine and understand what life was like for the young servicemen in
the 10th Mountain Division.

     Camp Hale and its surroundings, including the undeveloped areas of
the Tenmile Range, were used to train the 10th Mountain Division, the
99th Infantry Battalion, and other units in mountain and winter warfare.
 This iconic location inspired military innovation.  While training
there, the 99th Infantry Battalion — a unique, Norwegian-speaking
military unit that consisted primarily of Norwegian nationals and
Americans of direct Norwegian descent — developed a mount for heavy
machinery using two skis.  Following World War II, Camp Hale’s unique
attributes supported highly classified national security efforts.  In
the late 1950s, the Central Intelligence Agency trained various special
mission teams at Camp Hale, including nearly 170 Tibetans for operations
in China against the communist government. 

     The area is also foundational to the history of the United States
ski and outdoor recreation industry and thus has had a profound impact
on American culture.  Veterans of the 10th Mountain Division founded or
managed more than 60 ski resorts upon their return from deployment, some
in the same mountains where they had trained.  The remnants of the Mount
Royal/Peak One Ski Jumps, including a scaffold that supported the
judges’ platform, can also be found in the area.  Other veterans from
Camp Hale would go on to become trailblazers in conservation and outdoor
education and recreation:  David Brower served as the first executive
director of the Sierra Club; Paul Petzoldt founded the National Outdoor
Leadership School; and Fritz Benedict founded the 10th Mountain Division
Hut Association, which manages a network of 30 mountain huts — including
three in the Camp Hale and Tenmile Range area — that enable backcountry
skiers, mountain bikers, and hikers to access and experience the
historic and scientific objects found there.  Journeying to the Camp
Hale and Tenmile Range area of the continental divide allows visitors to
experience the mountains and valleys that inspired these veterans to
make important contributions to conservation and recreation and to learn
about and reflect on the mark they left on America when they returned
from service during war.

     The Camp Hale and Tenmile Range area is also rich in ancient human
history.  The area bears the marks of centuries of habitation by
Indigenous peoples who have called the region home since time immemorial
and who referred to this area of the Rocky Mountains as
*Káava’avich<u>i</u>* — meaning “mountains laying down.”  Forced from
much of their homelands when precious minerals were discovered, their
history serves as a stark reminder that the United States’ commitment to
its highest ideals of democracy, liberty, and equality has too often
been imperfect, particularly for Tribal Nations and Indigenous peoples.
 For thousands of years, the Ute people traveled to the Pando Valley
when winter snows melted as part of an annual migration circuit to hunt
game and collect medicinal plants.  The area also served as an important
transportation corridor for those traveling to sacred hot springs in
Glenwood Springs, and the traditional Ute trail lies under the road that
runs along the Eagle River today.  Evidence of these ancient occupants
is found at hundreds of sites, including lithic scatters, a
high-elevation prehistoric camp, and stone circles where projectile
points and prehistoric tools have been found.  Burial sites of historic
connection to the Ute Tribes — and of importance to them today — can
also be found in the area with funerary objects and the remains of
ancestral peoples who lived in the area thousands of years ago.  One
such site holds the 8,000-year-old remains of an ancient Ute — believed
by some to have been a person of great stature in the Ute community.
 Some of the objects of cultural importance to the Ute Tribes are
sensitive, rare, or vulnerable to vandalism and theft; therefore,
revealing their specific names and locations could pose a danger to the
objects.

     As a result of the 1873 Brunot Agreement and an 1880 Congressional
declaration, the Ute Tribes forcibly relinquished the Camp Hale and
Tenmile Range areas (and much of the rest of their homelands), and
retained only small portions of their ancestral homelands on
reservations in southwestern Colorado and eastern Utah.  More than a
century later, however, the Camp Hale and Tenmile Range area remains
culturally important to the Ute people, who consider the area an
important place to honor their ancestors.  They continue to return to
the region to forage for medicinal and ceremonial plants, hunt, and
fish.  

     The area is replete with evidence of the mining activity that
sparked the exclusion of the Ute people and drove development in the
region in the late 19th century.  Perched on the side of Mount Royal at
an elevation of 9,600 feet and named after the Pennsylvania hometown of
one of its investors, the Masontown mining site once included a mill,
numerous mine shafts, and a boarding house and homes that accommodated
several hundred workers, until an avalanche destroyed the mill in 1912.
 Today, visitors along the Masontown Trail in the north end of the
Tenmile Range area can observe remnants of the mill site, including
bricks from the foundations of cabin ruins, miscellaneous containers,
and pieces of metal equipment.

     Other sites of historical interest exist in the area.  To support
the burgeoning mining industry in the region, railroad lines running
through Tenmile Canyon on the northern end of the Tenmile Range were
constructed by the 1880s to connect small mountain settlements with
Denver.  Evidence remains of these historic rail lines and rail beds, as
well as rock structures that were built to support railroad
construction.  The purpose of these unique rock structures, known as
stone huts, remains a mystery, but they may have been used by Canadian
woodcutters who worked on the construction of railroads.  

     An exhaustive survey and study of the entire area has not been
completed; archaeologists and military and other historians anticipate
that many other such culturally and historically important sites remain
to be discovered throughout the area, thereby enriching our
understanding of the area’s significance.

     In addition to the numerous objects in the region that document the
history of America and ancient peoples, Camp Hale and the Tenmile Range
form a geologically and ecologically linked landscape — rugged and
stunning in appearance — that contains numerous features of scientific
interest, including tarns, waterfalls, and alpine tundra.  The
continental divide — a defining high-altitude geologic feature of the
Western Hemisphere that separates the watersheds of the Pacific and
Atlantic Oceans — stretches along the southern border of both the Camp
Hale and the Tenmile Range landscapes.  Visitors can travel along the
Continental Divide National Scenic Trail, which passes through the area,
to explore the changing geology and ecology along the spine of the
continent.

     The area’s geology and irregular topography formed during the
Pleistocene glacial period when retreating glaciers deposited a large
terminal moraine north of the current day Camp Hale, damming the Eagle
River and forming an adjacent lake basin.  When the lake ultimately
overflowed, the Eagle River cut a new channel forming the deep, narrow
canyon the river occupies today while leaving the lake intact.  Over
time, the lake drained, and the former lake floor became the broad, flat
Pando Valley.    

     To the east, the Pando Valley abruptly gives way to the soaring
peaks of the Tenmile Range, which stretches to the continental divide. 
The range boasts 10 peaks over 13,000 feet in elevation, including
Quandary Peak, which, at 14,265 feet, is one of Colorado’s iconic and
most-visited “Fourteeners.”  The slopes of these peaks are home to
several high-alpine lakes, including the Pacific Tarn to the southeast
of Pacific Peak, which, at 13,420 feet, is the highest named lake in the
United States.  Waterfalls descend the slopes — including Continental
Falls, Mohawk Basin Falls, and McCullough Gulch Falls — and are
components of a hydrologic system that defines the mountain west.  Rock,
too, descends from the range.  Studied for decades, the Spruce Creek
rock glacier, which is fed by a rockfall from Pacific Peak’s northeast
cirque, has advanced our understanding of the flow mechanics and
morphology of rock glaciers. 

     The area’s high peaks and alpine valleys contain rare and fragile
native alpine tundra ecosystems that include species uniquely adapted to
high altitudes.  Two of the four known populations of the Weber’s drab —
a diminutive plant with yellow flowers standing only a few inches tall —
can be found in the Tenmile Range.  Fewer than 300 known individual
plants of this species exist across 4 distinct populations distributed
over 7 square miles.  The diminutive plant is most often found in the
splash zones of rocky crevices along streams near the timberline.
 Ephemeral pools caused by snowmelt among boulders and high-altitude
alpine lakes in the area also host the rare and aptly named ice grass.
 Tiny in stature — standing less than an inch tall — ice grass can be
found only in cold, high-altitude regions.  The grass appears in only
isolated, disjunct areas in Colorado, with the next nearest known
population located hundreds of miles away in northwest Wyoming.     

     Among the Engelman spruce, subalpine fir, lodgepole pine, and
quaking aspen stands that dominate the area, visitors might glimpse
Canada lynx — a federally listed threatened species — or the boreal toad
— Colorado’s only alpine species of toad and a Forest Service sensitive
species that inhabits subalpine forest wetlands at elevations between
8,500 feet and 11,500 feet.  The area is an important habitat
connectivity corridor for lynx and related species.  Spruce and
McCullough Creeks hold populations of green lineage Colorado River
cutthroat trout — also a Forest Service sensitive species — that are
core conservation populations under the Colorado River Cutthroat Trout
Conservation Strategy.  The area also provides a habitat for mountain
goats, moose, bighorn sheep, Rocky Mountain elk, mule deer, black bears,
mountain lions, bobcats, bald eagles, white-tailed ptarmigans, hoary
bats, olive-sided flycatchers, martens, pygmy shrews, boreal owls,
northern goshawks, and several species of waterfowl.   

     In light of threats posed by vandalism, unmanaged recreation, and
climate change, protecting the Camp Hale and Tenmile Range area of the
continental divide will preserve its historic and prehistoric legacy and
maintain its diverse array of natural and scientific resources, ensuring
that the historic and scientific values of the area remain for the
benefit of all Americans.  Reserving this area would also honor the
valor and sacrifice of the 10th Mountain Division, secure ongoing
opportunities for Tribal communities to continue spiritual and
subsistence practices, and enable the region’s modern communities and
the Nation to continue to benefit from the area’s world class outdoor
recreation opportunities.

     WHEREAS, section 320301 of title 54, United States Code (the
“Antiquities Act”), authorizes the President, in his discretion, to
declare by public proclamation historic landmarks, historic and
prehistoric structures, and other objects of historic or scientific
interest that are situated upon the lands owned or controlled by the
Government of the United States to be national monuments, and to reserve
as a part thereof parcels of land, the limits of which in all cases
shall be confined to the smallest area compatible with the proper care
and management of the objects to be protected; and

     WHEREAS, I find that each of the objects identified above is an
object of historic or scientific interest in need of protection under 54
U.S.C. 320301; and

     WHEREAS, I find that the Camp Hale and Tenmile Range area of the
continental divide is an important part of the history of the United
States military and of the outdoor recreation industry; and

     WHEREAS, I find that the Camp Hale and Tenmile Range area of the
continental divide is sacred to sovereign Tribal Nations and Indigenous
peoples of the United States; and

     WHEREAS, I find that the Camp Hale and Tenmile Range area of the
continental divide contains rare and fragile ecosystems and geological
features that are of scientific interest; and

     WHEREAS, I find that the unique and historical nature of the lands
that make up the Camp Hale and Tenmile Range area of the continental
divide and the collection of objects of historic and scientific interest
therein make the landscape of the Camp Hale and Tenmile Range area
itself an object of historic and scientific interest; and

     WHEREAS, I find that there are threats to the objects identified in
this proclamation; and

     WHEREAS, I find that, in the absence of a reservation under the
Antiquities Act, the objects identified in this proclamation are not
adequately protected by otherwise applicable law or administrative
designations because neither provide Federal agencies with the specific
mandate to ensure proper care and management of the objects, nor do they
withdraw the lands from the operation of the public land, mining, and
mineral leasing laws; and

     WHEREAS, I find that a national monument reservation is necessary
to protect the objects of historic and scientific interest in the Camp
Hale and Tenmile Range area of the continental divide for current and
future generations; and

     WHEREAS, I find that the boundaries of the monument reserved by
this proclamation represent the smallest area compatible with the proper
care and management of the objects of scientific or historic interest to
be protected as required by the Antiquities Act; and

     WHEREAS, it is in the public interest to ensure the preservation
and protection of the objects of scientific and historic interest in the
Camp Hale and Tenmile Range area of the continental divide;

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by the authority vested in me by section 320301 of
title 54, United States Code, hereby proclaim the objects identified
above that are situated upon lands and interests in lands owned or
controlled by the Federal Government to be the Camp Hale-Continental
Divide National Monument (monument) and, for the purpose of protecting
those objects, reserve as part thereof all lands and interests in lands
owned or controlled by the Federal Government within the boundaries
described on the accompanying maps, which are attached hereto and form a
part of this proclamation.  These reserved Federal lands and interests
in lands encompass approximately 53,804 acres.  As a result of the
distribution of the objects across the landscape of the Camp Hale and
Tenmile Range area of the continental divide, and additionally and
independently, because the landscape itself is an object in need of
protection, the boundaries described on the accompanying maps are
confined to the smallest area compatible with the proper care and
management of the objects of historic or scientific interest identified
above.

     All Federal lands and interests in lands within the boundaries of
the monument are hereby appropriated and withdrawn from all forms of
entry, location, selection, sale, or other disposition under the public
land laws or laws applicable to the Forest Service, including withdrawal
from location, entry, and patent under the mining laws, and from
disposition under all laws relating to mineral and geothermal leasing.

     If the Federal Government subsequently acquires any lands or
interests in lands not currently owned or controlled by the Federal
Government within the boundaries described on the accompanying maps,
such lands and interests in lands shall be reserved as a part of the
monument, and objects identified above that are situated upon those
lands and interests in lands shall be part of the monument, upon
acquisition of ownership or control by the Federal Government.

     The Secretary of Agriculture (Secretary), through the Forest
Service, shall manage the monument pursuant to applicable legal
authorities and in accordance with the terms, conditions, and management
direction provided by this proclamation.  The Secretary shall prepare,
in consultation with the Secretary of the Interior, a management plan
for the monument, which shall include provisions for continuing outdoor
recreational opportunities consistent with the proper care and
management of the objects identified above, and shall promulgate such
regulations for its management as deemed appropriate.  The Secretary
shall provide for maximum public involvement in the development of the
management plan, including consultation with federally recognized Tribal
Nations, State and local governments, and other interested stakeholders.
 The final decision over any management plans and any management rules
and regulations rests with the Secretary.  Management plans or rules and
regulations developed by the Secretary of the Interior governing uses
within national parks or national monuments administered by the
Secretary of the Interior shall not apply within the monument.

     For purposes of protecting and restoring the objects identified
above, the Secretary shall prepare a travel management plan to ensure
appropriate access for the management and use of the area, which shall
provide for motorized and non-motorized mechanized vehicle uses,
including mountain biking, consistent with the proper care and
management of the objects identified above.  Unless inconsistent with
the proper care and management of the objects identified above,
non-motorized mechanized vehicle uses, including mountain biking, shall
continue to be permitted on the roads and trails designated for such
uses on the date of this proclamation.

     Nothing in this proclamation shall be deemed to enlarge or diminish
the rights or jurisdiction of any Tribal Nation.  The Secretary shall,
to the maximum extent permitted by law and in consultation with Tribal
Nations, ensure the protection of sacred sites and traditional cultural
properties and sites in the monument and provide access to Tribal
members for traditional cultural, spiritual, and customary uses,
consistent with the American Indian Religious Freedom Act (42 U.S.C.
1996) and Executive Order 13007 of May 24, 1996 (Indian Sacred Sites),
including collection of medicines, berries and other vegetation, forest
products, and firewood for personal noncommercial use in a manner
consistent with the proper care and management of the objects identified
herein. 

     In recognition of the importance of these lands and objects to
Tribal Nations, and to ensure that management decisions affecting the
monument reflect Tribal expertise and Indigenous Knowledge, the
Secretary shall meaningfully engage with Tribal Nations with cultural
ties to the area, including the Ute Tribes, in the development of the
management plan and to inform subsequent management of the monument. 
The Secretary shall pursue opportunities for co-stewardship through
management planning and implementation, including entering into
cooperative agreements with Tribal entities that have cultural ties to
the monument, and shall explore opportunities to provide support to
Tribal Nations to participate in the planning and management of the
monument.

     The establishment of this monument is subject to valid existing
rights, including valid existing water rights.  Consistent with the
proper care and management of the objects identified above, nothing in
this proclamation shall be construed to preclude the renewal or
assignment of, or interfere with the operation, maintenance,
replacement, modification, or upgrade of existing water infrastructure,
including flood control, pipeline, or other water management
infrastructure; State highway corridors or rights-of-way; or existing
utility and telecommunications rights-of-way or facilities within or
adjacent to the boundaries of existing authorizations within the
monument.  Nothing in this proclamation shall be deemed to affect the
operation or use of the existing railroad corridor as a railroad
right-of-way pursuant to valid existing rights or for recreational
purposes consistent with the proper care and management of the objects
identified above.  Existing water resource, flood control, utility,
pipeline, or telecommunications facilities located within the monument
may be expanded, and new facilities may be constructed within the
monument, to the extent consistent with the proper care and management
of the objects identified above and subject to the Secretary’s special
uses authorities and other applicable law.

     Nothing in this proclamation shall affect the responsibilities and
authorities of the Department of Defense under applicable environmental
laws for the remediation of hazardous substances or munitions or
explosives of concern within the monument boundaries, nor affect any
Department of Defense activities on lands not included within the
monument.  To further the protective purposes of the monument, the
Secretary shall explore entering into a memorandum of understanding with
the Secretary of Defense that would address collaboration between the
Departments, pursuant to applicable laws and regulations, to support the
remediation of hazardous substances or munitions or explosives of
concern while ensuring the protection of the monument objects identified
above, as well as implementing any needed controls for explosives
safety.  The Secretary and the Secretary of Defense shall cooperate and
coordinate regarding access to carry out necessary response actions
under applicable environmental laws.

     Nothing in this proclamation shall affect the Forest Service’s
ability to authorize access to and remediation of contaminated lands
within the monument, including for remediation of mine, mill, or tailing
sites, or for the restoration of natural resources.

     Nothing in this proclamation shall preclude low-level overflights
of military aircraft, flight testing or evaluation, the designation of
new units of special use airspace, or the use or establishment of
military flight training routes or transportation over the lands
reserved by this proclamation.

     Nothing in this proclamation shall be deemed to enlarge or diminish
the jurisdiction of the State of Colorado with respect to fish and
wildlife management.

     Laws, regulations, and policies followed by the Forest Service in
issuing and administering grazing permits on all lands under its
jurisdiction shall continue to apply with regard to the lands in the
monument.

     The Secretary may carry out vegetative management treatments within
the monument consistent with the proper care and management of the
objects identified above, except that commercial timber harvest may only
be used when the Secretary determines it appropriate to address
ecological restoration or the risk of wildfire, insect infestation, or
disease that would endanger the objects identified in this proclamation
or imperil public safety.

     Nothing in this proclamation shall be construed to alter the
authority or responsibility of any party with respect to emergency
response activities within the monument, including wildland fire
response, or to preclude avalanche control efforts within or adjacent to
the monument, including efforts to mitigate avalanche risks to
neighboring communities, roads and infrastructure, or recreation
facilities or destinations.

     Nothing in this proclamation shall be deemed to revoke any existing
withdrawal, reservation, or appropriation; however, the national
monument shall be the dominant reservation.

     Warning is hereby given to all unauthorized persons not to
appropriate, injure, destroy, or remove any feature of the monument and
not to locate or settle upon any of the lands thereof.

     If any provision of this proclamation, including its application to
a particular parcel of land, is held to be invalid, the remainder of
this proclamation and its application to other parcels of land shall not
be affected thereby.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twelfth day of
October, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-two, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-seventh.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
