---
date: '2022-10-31'
modified_time: 2022-10-31 12:26:47-04:00
published_time: 2022-10-31 12:26:46-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/10/31/a-proclamation-on-critical-infrastructure-security-and-resilience-month-2022/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Critical Infrastructure Security and Resilience Month,\_\
  2022"
---
 
    This month, we recommit to improving the resilience of our Nation’s
critical infrastructure so it can withstand all hazards — natural and
manmade.  By building better roads, bridges, and ports; fortifying our
information technology and cybersecurity across sectors, including
election systems; safeguarding our food and water sources; moving to
clean energy; and strengthening all other critical infrastructure
sectors, we will lay the foundation for long-term security and
prosperity.

     When our critical infrastructure shows signs of wear, everyday
Americans pay the price.  When powerful storms and forest fires — made
more frequent and ferocious by climate change — shut down energy grids,
families can lose power for weeks.  When unsecure networks are hacked,
critical services can go offline, and businesses can suffer huge
losses.  When bridges collapse and first responders must travel further
to reach disaster sites, Americans can die.  Crumbling infrastructure
around the world affects us at home as well:  Extreme weather,
cyberattacks, and other disasters have ripple effects, threatening
global stability and disrupting supply chains everywhere.

     That is why my Administration is reinforcing America’s critical
infrastructure and supporting our international partners as they do the
same.  Last year, I signed the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law to make a
once-in-a-generation investment in resilience and build a better America
— modernizing our roads, bridges, and ports; delivering clean water and
high-speed internet to our communities; and helping to eliminate the use
of lead pipes in this country, all while creating a new generation of
good-paying jobs.  This year, I signed the CHIPS and Science Act into
law, securing historic funding for research and development and to build
a resilient supply chain for semiconductors here in America.  At the
same time, we are shielding our entire country against — and actively
countering — malicious cyber activity, and establishing clear
international rules of the road as they relate to cyberspace.  Our
Federal agencies are working more closely with the private sector —
which owns and operates most of America’s critical infrastructure — to
defend against cyberattacks.  I have reinvigorated the National
Infrastructure Advisory Council to advise on how to reduce physical and
cyber risks and improve the security and resilience of our Nation’s
critical infrastructure sectors.

     At the same time, we are committed to protecting our election
systems.  The right to vote and to have that vote counted is the
foundation of our democracy and our Nation’s stability, and I am
determined to protect our election workers and defend our free and fair
elections from cyberattacks, threats of violence, and disinformation
campaigns.

     Securing our critical infrastructure also means tackling the
climate crisis — an existential threat to our health care, food systems,
water sources, and energy grid.  That is why I was proud to sign the
Inflation Reduction Act, the largest investment ever to combat climate
change while strengthening our energy sector, and to invoke the Defense
Production Act to accelerate the manufacturing of critical clean energy
technologies here at home.  By ushering in a clean energy future,
enhancing wildfire preparedness, and creating thousands of jobs, our
actions will minimize the risk of natural disasters and save lives. 

     Our efforts to bolster critical infrastructure extend beyond our
own borders as well.  Through programs like the Partnership for Global
Infrastructure and Investment, the Digital Invest Program from the
United States Agency for International Development, and the President’s
Emergency Plan for Adaptation and Resilience, the United States is
helping pay for game-changing infrastructure projects in developing
countries, strengthening the global economy and international supply
chains.  We are also working with allies and partners to enhance the
resilience of critical infrastructure around the world, including
trusted telecommunications providers, supply chains, and energy
networks, and to defend and respond to threats from state and nonstate
actors.

     The choices we make today to strengthen our critical infrastructure
are going to affect our country and our world for several generations to
come.  This year, as we observe the 50th anniversary of the Clean Water
Act and the Federal Government’s landmark actions to protect and restore
our waterways — let us rededicate ourselves to building a stronger, more
resilient Nation.  With bold action, smart investments, and a will to
win the competition for the future, anything is possible.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim
November 2022 as Critical Infrastructure Security and Resilience Month. 
I call upon the people of the United States to recognize the importance
of protecting our Nation’s infrastructure and to observe this month with
appropriate measures to enhance our national security and resilience.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this thirty-first
day of October, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-two, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-seventh.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
