---
date: '2022-10-07'
modified_time: 2022-10-07 10:35:33-04:00
published_time: 2022-10-07 10:28:42-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2022/10/07/executive-order-on-enhancing-safeguards-for-united-states-signals-intelligence-activities/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "Executive Order On Enhancing Safeguards For United\_States Signals Intelligence\_\
  Activities"
---
 
 By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered as follows:

Section 1.  Purpose.  The United States collects signals intelligence so
that its national security decisionmakers have access to the timely,
accurate, and insightful information necessary to advance the national
security interests of the United States and to protect its citizens and
the citizens of its allies and partners from harm.  Signals intelligence
capabilities are a major reason we have been able to adapt to a dynamic
and challenging security environment, and the United States must
preserve and continue to develop robust and technologically advanced
signals intelligence capabilities to protect our security and that of
our allies and partners.  At the same time, the United States recognizes
that signals intelligence activities must take into account that all
persons should be treated with dignity and respect, regardless of their
nationality or wherever they might reside, and that all persons have
legitimate privacy interests in the handling of their personal
information.  Therefore, this order establishes safeguards for such
signals intelligence activities.

     Sec. 2.  Signals Intelligence Activities. 

     (a)  Principles.  Signals intelligence activities shall be
authorized and conducted consistent with the following principles:

\(i\)  Signals intelligence activities shall be authorized by statute or
by Executive Order, proclamation, or other Presidential directive and
undertaken in accordance with the Constitution and with applicable
statutes and Executive Orders, proclamations, and other Presidential
directives.

\(ii\)  Signals intelligence activities shall be subject to appropriate
safeguards, which shall ensure that privacy and civil liberties are
integral considerations in the planning and implementation of such
activities so that:

(A)  signals intelligence activities shall be conducted only following a
determination, based on a reasonable assessment of all relevant factors,
that the activities are necessary to advance a validated intelligence
priority, although signals intelligence does not have to be the sole
means available or used for advancing aspects of the validated
intelligence priority; and

(B)  signals intelligence activities shall be conducted only to the
extent and in a manner that is proportionate to the validated
intelligence priority for which they have been authorized, with the aim
of achieving a proper balance between the importance of the validated
intelligence priority being advanced and the impact on the privacy and
civil liberties of all persons, regardless of their nationality or
wherever they might reside.

\(iii\)  Signals intelligence activities shall be subjected to rigorous
oversight in order to ensure that they comport with the principles
identified above. 

     (b)  Objectives.  Signals intelligence collection activities shall
be conducted in pursuit of legitimate objectives. 

\(i\)  Legitimate objectives.

(A)  Signals intelligence collection activities shall be conducted only
in pursuit of one or more of the following objectives:

(1)  understanding or assessing the capabilities, intentions, or
activities of a foreign government, a foreign military, a faction of a
foreign nation, a foreign-based political organization, or an entity
acting on behalf of or controlled by any such foreign government,
military, faction, or political organization, in order to protect the
national security of the United States and of its allies and partners;

(2)  understanding or assessing the capabilities, intentions, or
activities of foreign organizations, including international terrorist
organizations, that pose a current or potential threat to the national
security of the United States or of its allies or partners;

(3)  understanding or assessing transnational threats that impact global
security, including climate and other ecological change, public health
risks, humanitarian threats, political instability, and geographic
rivalry;

(4)  protecting against foreign military capabilities and activities;

(5)  protecting against terrorism, the taking of hostages, and the
holding of individuals captive (including the identification, location,
and rescue of hostages and captives) conducted by or on behalf of a
foreign government, foreign organization, or foreign person;

(6)  protecting against espionage, sabotage, assassination, or other
intelligence activities conducted by, on behalf of, or with the
assistance of a foreign government, foreign organization, or foreign
person;

(7)  protecting against threats from the development, possession, or
proliferation of weapons of mass destruction or related technologies and
threats conducted by, on behalf of, or with the assistance of a foreign
government, foreign organization, or foreign person;

(8)  protecting against cybersecurity threats created or exploited by,
or malicious cyber activities conducted by or on behalf of, a foreign
government, foreign organization, or foreign person;

(9)  protecting against threats to the personnel of the United States or
of its allies or partners;

(10)  protecting against transnational criminal threats, including
illicit finance and sanctions evasion related to one or more of the
other objectives identified in subsection (b)(i) of this section;

(11)  protecting the integrity of elections and political processes,
government property, and United States infrastructure (both physical and
electronic) from activities conducted by, on behalf of, or with the
assistance of a foreign government, foreign organization, or foreign
person; and

(12)  advancing collection or operational capabilities or activities in
order to further a legitimate objective identified in subsection (b)(i)
of this section.

(B)  The President may authorize updates to the list of objectives in
light of new national security imperatives, such as new or heightened
threats to the national security of the United States, for which the
President determines that signals intelligence collection activities may
be used.  The Director of National Intelligence (Director) shall
publicly release any updates to the list of objectives authorized by the
President, unless the President determines that doing so would pose a
risk to the national security of the United States.

\(ii\)  Prohibited objectives.  

(A)  Signals intelligence collection activities shall not be conducted
for the purpose of:

\(1\)  suppressing or burdening criticism, dissent, or the free
expression of ideas or political opinions by individuals or the press;

(2)  suppressing or restricting legitimate privacy interests;

(3)  suppressing or restricting a right to legal counsel; or

(4)  disadvantaging persons based on their ethnicity, race, gender,
gender identity, sexual orientation, or religion.

(B)  It is not a legitimate objective to collect foreign private
commercial information or trade secrets to afford a competitive
advantage to United States companies and United States business sectors
commercially.  The collection of such information is authorized only to
protect the national security of the United States or of its allies or
partners.

(iii)  Validation of signals intelligence collection priorities.

(A)  Under section 102A of the National Security Act of 1947, as amended
(50 U.S.C. 3024), the Director must establish priorities for the
Intelligence Community to ensure the timely and effective collection of
national intelligence, including national intelligence collected through
signals intelligence.  The Director does this through the National
Intelligence Priorities Framework (NIPF), which the Director maintains
and presents to the President, through the Assistant to the President
for National Security Affairs, on a regular basis.  In order to ensure
that signals intelligence collection activities are undertaken to
advance legitimate objectives, before presenting the NIPF or any
successor framework that identifies intelligence priorities to the
President, the Director shall obtain from the Civil Liberties Protection
Officer of the Office of the Director of National Intelligence (CLPO) an
assessment as to whether, with regard to anticipated signals
intelligence collection activities, each of the intelligence priorities
identified in the NIPF or successor framework:

\(1\)  advances one or more of the legitimate objectives set forth in
subsection (b)(i) of this section;

(2)  neither was designed nor is anticipated to result in signals
intelligence collection in contravention of the prohibited objectives
set forth in subsection (b)(ii) of this section; and

(3)  was established after appropriate consideration for the privacy and
civil liberties of all persons, regardless of their nationality or
wherever they might reside.

(B)  If the Director disagrees with any aspect of the CLPO’s assessment
with respect to any of the intelligence priorities identified in the
NIPF or successor framework, the Director shall include the CLPO’s
assessment and the Director’s views when presenting the NIPF to the
President.

(c)  Privacy and civil liberties safeguards.  The following safeguards
shall fulfill the principles contained in subsections (a)(ii) and
(a)(iii) of this section.

\(i\)  Collection of signals intelligence.

\(A\)  The United States shall conduct signals intelligence collection
activities only following a determination that a specific signals
intelligence collection activity, based on a reasonable assessment of
all relevant factors, is necessary to advance a validated intelligence
priority, although signals intelligence does not have to be the sole
means available or used for advancing aspects of the validated
intelligence priority; it could be used, for example, to ensure
alternative pathways for validation or for maintaining reliable access
to the same information.  In determining whether to collect signals
intelligence consistent with this principle, the United States — through
an element of the Intelligence Community or through an interagency
committee consisting in whole or in part of the heads of elements of the
Intelligence Community, the heads of departments containing such
elements, or their designees — shall consider the availability,
feasibility, and appropriateness of other less intrusive sources and
methods for collecting the information necessary to advance a validated
intelligence priority, including from diplomatic and public sources, and
shall prioritize such available, feasible, and appropriate alternatives
to signals intelligence.

\(B\)  Signals intelligence collection activities shall be as tailored
as feasible to advance a validated intelligence priority and, taking
due account of relevant factors, not disproportionately impact privacy
and civil liberties.  Such factors may include, depending on the
circumstances, the nature of the pursued objective; the feasible steps
taken to limit the scope of the collection to the authorized purpose;
the intrusiveness of the collection activity, including its duration;
the probable contribution of the collection to the objective pursued;
the reasonably foreseeable consequences to individuals, including
unintended third parties; the nature and sensitivity of the data to be
collected; and the safeguards afforded to the information collected.

(C)  For purposes of subsection (c)(i) of this section, the scope of a
specific signals intelligence collection activity may include, for
example, a specific line of effort or target, as appropriate.

(ii)  Bulk collection of signals intelligence.

\(A\)  Targeted collection shall be prioritized.  The bulk collection of
signals intelligence shall be authorized only based on a determination —
by an element of the Intelligence Community or through an interagency
committee consisting in whole or in part of the heads of elements of the
Intelligence Community, the heads of departments containing such
elements, or their designees — that the information necessary to advance
a validated intelligence priority cannot reasonably be obtained by
targeted collection.  When it is determined to be necessary to engage in
bulk collection in order to advance a validated intelligence priority,
the element of the Intelligence Community shall apply reasonable methods
and technical measures in order to limit the data collected to only what
is necessary to advance a validated intelligence priority, while
minimizing the collection of non-pertinent information.

(B)  Each element of the Intelligence Community that collects signals
intelligence through bulk collection shall use such information only in
pursuit of one or more of the following objectives:

(1)  protecting against terrorism, the taking of hostages, and the
holding of individuals captive (including the identification, location,
and rescue of hostages and captives) conducted by or on behalf of a
foreign government, foreign organization, or foreign person;

(2)  protecting against espionage, sabotage, assassination, or other
intelligence activities conducted by, on behalf of, or with the
assistance of a foreign government, foreign organization, or foreign
person;

(3)  protecting against threats from the development, possession, or
proliferation of weapons of mass destruction or related technologies and
threats conducted by, on behalf of, or with the assistance of a foreign
government, foreign organization, or foreign person;

(4)  protecting against cybersecurity threats created or exploited by,
or malicious cyber activities conducted by or on behalf of, a foreign
government, foreign organization, or foreign person;

(5)  protecting against threats to the personnel of the United States or
of its allies or partners; and

(6)  protecting against transnational criminal threats, including
illicit finance and sanctions evasion related to one or more of the
other objectives identified in subsection (c)(ii) of this section.

(C)  The President may authorize updates to the list of objectives in
light of new national security imperatives, such as new or heightened
threats to the national security of the United States, for which the
President determines that bulk collection may be used.  The Director
shall publicly release any updates to the list of objectives authorized
by the President, unless the President determines that doing so would
pose a risk to the national security of the United States.

(D)  In order to minimize any impact on privacy and civil liberties, a
targeted signals intelligence collection activity that temporarily uses
data acquired without discriminants (for example, without specific
identifiers or selection terms) shall be subject to the safeguards
described in this subsection, unless such data is:

(1)  used only to support the initial technical phase of the targeted
signals intelligence collection activity;

(2)  retained for only the short period of time required to complete
this phase; and

\(3\)  thereafter deleted.

(iii)  Handling of personal information collected through signals
intelligence.

(A)  Minimization.  Each element of the Intelligence Community that
handles personal information collected through signals intelligence
shall establish and apply policies and procedures designed to minimize
the dissemination and retention of personal information collected
through signals intelligence.

(1)  Dissemination.  Each element of the Intelligence Community that
handles personal information collected through signals intelligence:

\(a\)  shall disseminate non-United States persons’ personal information
collected through signals intelligence only if it involves one or more
of the comparable types of information that section 2.3 of Executive
Order 12333 of December 4, 1981 (United States Intelligence Activities),
as amended, states may be disseminated in the case of information
concerning United States persons;

\(b\)  shall not disseminate personal information collected through
signals intelligence solely because of a person’s nationality or country
of residence;

\(c\)  shall disseminate within the United States Government personal
information collected through signals intelligence only if an authorized
and appropriately trained individual has a reasonable belief that the
personal information will be appropriately protected and that the
recipient has a need to know the information;

\(d\)  shall take due account of the purpose of the dissemination, the
nature and extent of the personal information being disseminated, and
the potential for harmful impact on the person or persons concerned
before disseminating personal information collected through signals
intelligence to recipients outside the United States Government,
including to a foreign government or international organization; and

(e)  shall not disseminate personal information collected through
signals intelligence for the purpose of circumventing the provisions of
this order.

(2)  <u>Retention</u>.  Each element of the Intelligence Community that
handles personal information collected through signals intelligence:

\(a\)  shall retain non-United States persons’ personal information
collected through signals intelligence only if the retention of
comparable information concerning United States persons would be
permitted under applicable law and shall subject such information to the
same retention periods that would apply to comparable information
concerning United States persons;

(b)  shall subject non-United States persons’ personal information
collected through signals intelligence for which no final retention
determination has been made to the same temporary retention periods that
would apply to comparable information concerning United States persons;
and

(c)  shall delete non-United States persons’ personal information
collected through signals intelligence that may no longer be retained in
the same manner that comparable information concerning United States
persons would be deleted.

(B)  Data security and access.  Each element of the Intelligence
Community that handles personal information collected through signals
intelligence:

\(1\)  shall process and store personal information collected through
signals intelligence under conditions that provide appropriate
protection and prevent access by unauthorized persons, consistent with
the applicable safeguards for sensitive information contained in
relevant Executive Orders, proclamations, other Presidential directives,
Intelligence Community directives, and associated policies; 

\(2\)  shall limit access to such personal information to authorized
personnel who have a need to know the information to perform their
mission and have received appropriate training on the requirements of
applicable United States law, as described in policies and procedures
issued under subsection (c)(iv) of this section; and

\(3\)  shall ensure that personal information collected through signals
intelligence for which no final retention determination has been made is
accessed only in order to make or support such a determination or to
conduct authorized administrative, testing, development, security, or
oversight functions.

(C)  Data quality.  Each element of the Intelligence Community that
handles personal information collected through signals intelligence
shall include such personal information in intelligence products only as
consistent with applicable Intelligence Community standards for accuracy
and objectivity, with a focus on applying standards relating to the
quality and reliability of the information, consideration of alternative
sources of information and interpretations of data, and objectivity in
performing analysis.

(D)  Queries of bulk collection.  Each element of the Intelligence
Community that conducts queries of unminimized signals intelligence
obtained by bulk collection shall do so consistent with the permissible
uses of signals intelligence obtained by bulk collection identified in
subsection (c)(ii)(B) of this section and according to policies and
procedures issued under subsection (c)(iv) of this section, which shall
appropriately take into account the impact on the privacy and civil
liberties of all persons, regardless of their nationality or wherever
they might reside.

(E)  Documentation*.*  In order to facilitate the oversight processes
set forth in subsection (d) of this section and the redress mechanism
set forth in section 3 of this order, each element of the Intelligence
Community that engages in signals intelligence collection activities
shall maintain documentation to the extent reasonable in light of the
nature and type of collection at issue and the context in which it is
collected.  The content of any such documentation may vary based on the
circumstances but shall, to the extent reasonable, provide the factual
basis pursuant to which the element of the Intelligence Community, based
on a reasonable assessment of all relevant factors, assesses that the
signals intelligence collection activity is necessary to advance a
validated intelligence priority.

(iv)  Update and publication of policies and procedures*.*  The head of
each element of the Intelligence Community:

(A)  shall continue to use the policies and procedures issued pursuant
to Presidential Policy Directive 28 of January 17, 2014 (Signals
Intelligence Activities) (PPD-28), until they are updated pursuant to
subsection (c)(iv)(B) of this section;

(B)  shall, within 1 year of the date of this order, in consultation
with the Attorney General, the CLPO, and the Privacy and Civil Liberties
Oversight Board (PCLOB), update those policies and procedures as
necessary to implement the privacy and civil liberties safeguards in
this order; and

\(C\)  shall, within 1 year of the date of this order, release these
policies and procedures publicly to the maximum extent possible,
consistent with the protection of intelligence sources and methods, in
order to enhance the public’s understanding of, and to promote public
trust in, the safeguards pursuant to which the United States conducts
signals intelligence activities.

(v)  Review by the PCLOB*.* 

(A)  Nature of review.  Consistent with applicable law, the PCLOB is
encouraged to conduct a review of the updated policies and procedures
described in subsection (c)(iv)(B) of this section once they have been
issued to ensure that they are consistent with the enhanced safeguards
contained in this order.

(B)  Consideration of review.  Within 180 days of completion of any
review by the PCLOB described in subsection (c)(v)(A) of this section,
the head of each element of the Intelligence Community shall carefully
consider and shall implement or otherwise address all recommendations
contained in such review, consistent with applicable law.

     (d)  Subjecting signals intelligence activities to rigorous
oversight.  The actions directed in this subsection are designed to
build on the oversight mechanisms that elements of the Intelligence
Community already have in place, in order to further ensure that signals
intelligence activities are subjected to rigorous oversight.

(i)  Legal, oversight, and compliance officials.  Each element of the
Intelligence Community that collects signals intelligence:

\(A\)  shall have in place senior-level legal, oversight, and compliance
officials who conduct periodic oversight of signals intelligence
activities, including an Inspector General, a Privacy and Civil
Liberties Officer, and an officer or officers in a designated compliance
role with the authority to conduct oversight of and ensure compliance
with applicable United States law;

\(B\)  shall provide such legal, oversight, and compliance officials
access to all information pertinent to carrying out their oversight
responsibilities under this subsection, consistent with the protection
of intelligence sources or methods, including their oversight
responsibilities to ensure that any appropriate actions are taken to
remediate an incident of non-compliance with applicable United States
law; and

(C)  shall not take any actions designed to impede or improperly
influence such legal, oversight, and compliance officials in carrying
out their oversight responsibilities under this subsection.

(ii)  Training.  Each element of the Intelligence Community shall
maintain appropriate training requirements to ensure that all employees
with access to signals intelligence know and understand the requirements
of this order and the policies and procedures for reporting and
remediating incidents of non-compliance with applicable United States
law.

(iii)  Significant incidents of non-compliance.

(A)  Each element of the Intelligence Community shall ensure that, if a
legal, oversight, or compliance official, as described in
subsection (d)(i) of this section, or any other employee, identifies a
significant incident of non-compliance with applicable United States
law, the incident is reported promptly to the head of the element of the
Intelligence Community, the head of the executive department or agency
(agency) containing the element of the Intelligence Community (to the
extent relevant), and the Director.

(B)  Upon receipt of such report, the head of the element of the
Intelligence Community, the head of the agency containing the element of
the Intelligence Community (to the extent relevant), and the Director
shall ensure that any necessary actions are taken to remediate and
prevent the recurrence of the significant incident of non-compliance.

     (e)  Savings clause.  Provided the signals intelligence collection
is conducted consistent with and in the manner prescribed by this
section of this order, this order does not limit any signals
intelligence collection technique authorized under the National Security
Act of 1947, as amended (50 U.S.C. 3001 *et seq*.), the Foreign
Intelligence Surveillance Act of 1978, as amended (50 U.S.C. 1801 *et
seq*.) (FISA), Executive Order 12333, or other applicable law or
Presidential directive.

Sec. 3.  Signals Intelligence Redress Mechanism.

(a)  Purpose.  This section establishes a redress mechanism to review
qualifying complaints transmitted by the appropriate public authority in
a qualifying state concerning United States signals intelligence
activities for any covered violation of United States law and, if
necessary, appropriate remediation.

(b)  Process for submission of qualifying complaints.  Within 60 days of
the date of this order, the Director, in consultation with the Attorney
General and the heads of elements of the Intelligence Community that
collect or handle personal information collected through signals
intelligence, shall establish a process for the submission of qualifying
complaints transmitted by the appropriate public authority in a
qualifying state.   

\(c\)  Initial investigation of qualifying complaints by the CLPO.

(i)  Establishment.  The Director, in consultation with the Attorney
General, shall establish a process that authorizes the CLPO to
investigate, review, and, as necessary, order appropriate remediation
for qualifying complaints.  This process shall govern how the CLPO will
review qualifying complaints in a manner that protects classified or
otherwise privileged or protected information and shall ensure, at a
minimum, that for each qualifying complaint the CLPO shall:

(A)  review information necessary to investigate the qualifying
complaint;

(B)  exercise its statutory and delegated authority to determine whether
there was a covered violation by:

(i)  taking into account both relevant national security interests and
applicable privacy protections;

(ii)  giving appropriate deference to any relevant determinations made
by national security officials; and

(iii)  applying the law impartially;

(C)  determine the appropriate remediation for any covered violation; 

(D)  provide a classified report on information indicating a violation
of any authority subject to the oversight of the Foreign Intelligence
Surveillance Court (FISC) to the Assistant Attorney General for National
Security, who shall report violations to the FISC in accordance with its
rules of procedure;

(E)  after the review is completed, inform the complainant, through the
appropriate public authority in a qualifying state and without
confirming or denying that the complainant was subject to United States
signals intelligence activities, that:

\(1\)  “the review either did not identify any covered violations or the
Civil Liberties Protection Officer of the Office of the Director of
National Intelligence issued a determination requiring appropriate
remediation”;

\(2\)  the complainant or an element of the Intelligence Community may,
as prescribed in the regulations issued by the Attorney General pursuant
to section 3(d)(i) of this order, apply for review of the CLPO’s
determinations by the Data Protection Review Court described in
subsection (d) of this section; and

(3)  if either the complainant or an element of the Intelligence
Community applies for review by the Data Protection Review Court, a
special advocate will be selected by the Data Protection Review Court to
advocate regarding the complainant’s interest in the matter;

(F)  maintain appropriate documentation of its review of the qualifying
complaint and produce a classified decision explaining the basis for its
factual findings, determination with respect to whether a covered
violation occurred, and determination of the appropriate remediation in
the event there was such a violation, consistent with its statutory and
delegated authority;

(G)  prepare a classified ex parte record of review, which shall consist
of the appropriate documentation of its review of the qualifying
complaint and the classified decision described in subsection (c)(i)(F)
of this section; and

(H)  provide any necessary support to the Data Protection Review Court.

(ii)  Binding effect.  Each element of the Intelligence Community, and
each agency containing an element of the Intelligence Community, shall
comply with any determination by the CLPO to undertake appropriate
remediation pursuant to subsection (c)(i)(C) of this section, subject to
any contrary determination by the Data Protection Review Court.

(iii)  Assistance.  Each element of the Intelligence Community shall
provide the CLPO with access to information necessary to conduct the
reviews described in subsection (c)(i) of this section, consistent with
the protection of intelligence sources and methods, and shall not take
any actions designed to impede or improperly influence the CLPO’s
reviews.  Privacy and civil liberties officials within elements of the
Intelligence Community shall also support the CLPO as it performs the
reviews described in subsection (c)(i) of this section.

(iv)  Independence.  The Director shall not interfere with a review by
the CLPO of a qualifying complaint under subsection (c)(i) of this
section; nor shall the Director remove the CLPO for any actions taken
pursuant to this order, except for instances of misconduct, malfeasance,
breach of security, neglect of duty, or incapacity.

(d)  Data Protection Review Court.

(i)  Establishment.  The Attorney General is authorized to and shall
establish a process to review determinations made by the CLPO under
subsection (c)(i) of this section.  In exercising that authority, the
Attorney General shall, within 60 days of the date of this order,
promulgate regulations establishing a Data Protection Review Court to
exercise the Attorney General’s authority to review such
determinations.  These regulations shall, at a minimum, provide that:

(A)  The Attorney General, in consultation with the Secretary of
Commerce, the Director, and the PCLOB, shall appoint individuals to
serve as judges on the Data Protection Review Court, who shall be legal
practitioners with appropriate experience in the fields of data privacy
and national security law, giving weight to individuals with prior
judicial experience, and who shall not be, at the time of their initial
appointment, employees of the United States Government.  During their
term of appointment on the Data Protection Review Court, such judges
shall not have any official duties or employment within the United
States Government other than their official duties and employment as
judges on the Data Protection Review Court.

(B)  Upon receipt of an application for review filed by the complainant
or an element of the Intelligence Community of a determination made by
the CLPO under subsection (c) of this section, a three-judge panel of
the Data Protection Review Court shall be convened to review the
application.  Service on the Data Protection Review Court panel shall
require that the judge hold the requisite security clearances to access
classified national security information.

(C)  Upon being convened, the Data Protection Review Court panel shall
select a special advocate through procedures prescribed in the Attorney
General’s regulations.  The special advocate shall assist the panel in
its consideration of the application for review, including by advocating
regarding the complainant’s interest in the matter and ensuring that the
Data Protection Review Court panel is well informed of the issues and
the law with respect to the matter.  Service as a special advocate shall
require that the special advocate hold the requisite security clearances
to access classified national security information and to adhere to
restrictions prescribed in the Attorney General’s regulations on
communications with the complainant to ensure the protection of
classified or otherwise privileged or protected information.

(D)  The Data Protection Review Court panel shall impartially review the
determinations made by the CLPO with respect to whether a covered
violation occurred and the appropriate remediation in the event there
was such a violation.  The review shall be based at a minimum on the
classified ex parte record of review described in subsection (c)(i)(F)
of this section and information or submissions provided by the
complainant, the special advocate, or an element of the Intelligence
Community.  In reviewing determinations made by the CLPO, the Data
Protection Review Court panel shall be guided by relevant decisions of
the United States Supreme Court in the same way as are courts
established under Article III of the United States Constitution,
including those decisions regarding appropriate deference to relevant
determinations of national security officials. 

(E)  In the event that the Data Protection Review Court panel disagrees
with any of the CLPO’s determinations with respect to whether a covered
violation occurred or the appropriate remediation in the event there was
such a violation, the panel shall issue its own determinations.

(F)  The Data Protection Review Court panel shall provide a classified
report on information indicating a violation of any authority subject to
the oversight of the FISC to the Assistant Attorney General for National
Security, who shall report violations to the FISC in accordance with its
rules of procedure.

(G)  After the review is completed, the CLPO shall be informed of the
Data Protection Review Court panel’s determinations through procedures
prescribed by the Attorney General’s regulations.

(H)  After a review is completed in response to a complainant’s
application for review, the Data Protection Review Court, through
procedures prescribed by the Attorney General’s regulations, shall
inform the complainant, through the appropriate public authority in a
qualifying state and without confirming or denying that the complainant
was subject to United States signals intelligence activities, that “the
review either did not identify any covered violations or the Data
Protection Review Court issued a determination requiring appropriate
remediation.”

(ii)  Binding effect.  Each element of the Intelligence Community, and
each agency containing an element of the Intelligence Community, shall
comply with any determination by a Data Protection Review Court panel to
undertake appropriate remediation.

(iii)  Assistance.  Each element of the Intelligence Community shall
provide the CLPO with access to information necessary to conduct the
review described in subsection (d)(i) of this section, consistent with
the protection of intelligence sources and methods, that a Data
Protection Review Court panel requests from the CLPO and shall not take
any actions for the purpose of impeding or improperly influencing a
panel’s review.

(iv)  Independence.  The Attorney General shall not interfere with a
review by a Data Protection Review Court panel of a determination the
CLPO made regarding a qualifying complaint under subsection (c)(i) of
this section; nor shall the Attorney General remove any judges appointed
as provided in subsection (d)(i)(A) of this section, or remove any judge
from service on a Data Protection Review Court panel, except for
instances of misconduct, malfeasance, breach of security, neglect of
duty, or incapacity, after taking due account of the standards in the
Rules for Judicial-Conduct and Judicial-Disability Proceedings
promulgated by the Judicial Conference of the United States pursuant to
the Judicial Conduct and Disability Act (28 U.S.C. 351 *et seq.*).

(v)  Record of determinations.  For each qualifying complaint
transmitted by the appropriate public authority in a qualifying state,
the Secretary of Commerce shall:

\(A\)  maintain a record of the complainant who submitted such
complaint;

\(B\)  not later than 5 years after the date of this order and no less
than every 5 years thereafter, contact the relevant element or elements
of the Intelligence Community regarding whether information pertaining
to the review of such complaint by the CLPO has been declassified and
whether information pertaining to the review of any application for
review submitted to the Data Protection Review Court has been
declassified, including whether an element of the Intelligence Community
filed an application for review with the Data Protection Review Court;
and

(C)  if informed that such information has been declassified, notify the
complainant, through the appropriate public authority in a qualifying
state, that information pertaining to the review of their complaint by
the CLPO or to the review of any application for review submitted to the
Data Protection Review Court may be available under applicable law.

(e)  Annual review by PCLOB of redress process.

(i)  Nature of review.  Consistent with applicable law, the PCLOB is
encouraged to conduct an annual review of the processing of qualifying
complaints by the redress mechanism established by section 3 of this
order, including whether the CLPO and the Data Protection Review Court
processed qualifying complaints in a timely manner; whether the CLPO and
the Data Protection Review Court are obtaining full access to necessary
information; whether the CLPO and the Data Protection Review Court are
operating consistent with this order; whether the safeguards established
by section 2 of this order are properly considered in the processes of
the CLPO and the Data Protection Review Court; and whether the elements
of the Intelligence Community have fully complied with determinations
made by the CLPO and the Data Protection Review Court.

(ii)  Assistance.  The Attorney General, the CLPO, and the elements of
the Intelligence Community shall provide the PCLOB with access to
information necessary to conduct the review described in subsection
(e)(i) of this section, consistent with the protection of intelligence
sources and methods.

(iii)  Report and certification.  Within 30 days of completing any
review described in subsection (e)(i) of this section, the PCLOB is
encouraged to:

\(A\)  provide the President, the Attorney General, the Director, the
heads of elements of the Intelligence Community, the CLPO, and the
congressional intelligence committees with a classified report detailing
the results of its review;

(B)  release to the public an unclassified version of the report; and

\(C\)  make an annual public certification as to whether the redress
mechanism established pursuant to section 3 of this order is processing
complaints consistent with this order.

(iv)  Consideration of review.  Within 180 days of receipt of any report
by the PCLOB described in subsection (e)(iii)(A) of this section, the
Attorney General, the Director, the heads of elements of the
Intelligence Community, and the CLPO shall carefully consider and shall
implement or otherwise address all recommendations contained in such
report, consistent with applicable law.

     (f)  Designation of qualifying state.

(i)  To implement the redress mechanism established by section 3 of this
order, the Attorney General is authorized to designate a country or
regional economic integration organization as a qualifying state for
purposes of the redress mechanism established pursuant to section 3 of
this order, effective immediately or on a date specified by the Attorney
General, if the Attorney General determines, in consultation with the
Secretary of State, the Secretary of Commerce, and the Director, that:

(A)  the laws of the country, the regional economic integration
organization, or the regional economic integration organization’s member
countries require appropriate safeguards in the conduct of signals
intelligence activities for United States persons’ personal information
that is transferred from the United States to the territory of the
country or a member country of the regional economic integration
organization;

(B)  the country, the regional economic integration organization, or the
regional economic integration organization’s member countries of the
regional economic integration organization permit, or are anticipated to
permit, the transfer of personal information for commercial purposes
between the territory of that country or those member countries and the
territory of the United States; and

(C)  such designation would advance the national interests of the United
States.

(ii)  The Attorney General may revoke or amend such a designation,
effective immediately or on a date specified by the Attorney General, if
the Attorney General determines, in consultation with the Secretary of
State, the Secretary of Commerce, and the Director, that:

(A)  the country, the regional economic integration organization, or the
regional economic integration organization’s member countries do not
provide appropriate safeguards in the conduct of signals intelligence
activities for United States persons’ personal information that is
transferred from the United States to the territory of the country or to
a member country of the regional economic integration organization;

(B)  the country, the regional economic integration organization, or the
regional economic integration organization’s member countries do not
permit the transfer of personal information for commercial purposes
between the territory of that country or those member countries and the
territory of the United States; or

(C)  such designation is not in the national interests of the United
States.

     Sec. 4.  Definitions.  For purposes of this order:

(a)  “Appropriate remediation” means lawful measures designed to fully
redress an identified covered violation regarding a specific complainant
and limited to measures designed to address that specific complainant’s
complaint, taking into account the ways that a violation of the kind
identified have customarily been addressed.  Such measures may include,
depending on the specific covered violation at issue, curing through
administrative measures violations found to have been procedural or
technical errors relating to otherwise lawful access to or handling of
data, terminating acquisition of data where collection is not lawfully
authorized, deleting data that had been acquired without lawful
authorization, deleting the results of inappropriately conducted queries
of otherwise lawfully collected data, restricting access to lawfully
collected data to those appropriately trained, or recalling intelligence
reports containing data acquired without lawful authorization or that
were otherwise disseminated in a manner inconsistent with United States
law.  Appropriate remediation shall be narrowly tailored to redress the
covered violation and to minimize adverse impacts on the operations of
the Intelligence Community and the national security of the United
States. 

\(b\)  “Bulk collection” means the authorized collection of large
quantities of signals intelligence data that, due to technical or
operational considerations, is acquired without the use of discriminants
(for example, without the use of specific identifiers or selection
terms).

\(c\)  “Counterintelligence” shall have the same meaning as it has in
Executive Order 12333.

(d)  “Covered violation” means a violation that:

(i)    arises from signals intelligence activities conducted after the
date of this order regarding data transferred to the United States from
a qualifying state after the effective date of the Attorney General’s
designation for such state, as provided in section 3(f)(i) of this
order;

\(ii\)   adversely affects the complainant’s individual privacy and
civil liberties interests; and

(iii)  violates one or more of the following:

(A)  the United States Constitution;

(B)  the applicable sections of FISA or any applicable FISC-approved
procedures;

(C)  Executive Order 12333 or any applicable agency procedures pursuant
to Executive Order 12333;

(D)  this order or any applicable agency policies and procedures issued
or updated pursuant to this order (or the policies and procedures
identified in section 2(c)(iv)(A) of this order before they are updated
pursuant to section 2(c)(iv)(B) of this order);

(E)  any successor statute, order, policies, or procedures to those
identified in section 4(d)(iii)(B)-(D) of this order; or

(F)  any other statute, order, policies, or procedures adopted after the
date of this order that provides privacy and civil liberties safeguards
with respect to United States signals intelligence activities within the
scope of this order, as identified in a list published and updated by
the Attorney General, in consultation with the Director of National
Intelligence.

\(e\)  “Foreign intelligence” shall have the same meaning as it has in
Executive Order 12333.

\(f\)  “Intelligence” shall have the same meaning as it has in Executive
Order 12333.

(g)  “Intelligence Community” and “elements of the Intelligence
Community” shall have the same meaning as they have in Executive Order
12333.

(h)  “National security” shall have the same meaning as it has in
Executive Order 13526 of December 29, 2009 (Classified National Security
Information).

(i)  “Non-United States person” means a person who is not a United
States person.

(j)  “Personnel of the United States or of its allies or partners” means
any current or former member of the Armed Forces of the United States,
any current or former official of the United States Government, and any
other person currently or formerly employed by or working on behalf of
the United States Government, as well as any current or former member of
the military, current or former official, or other person currently or
formerly employed by or working on behalf of an ally or partner.

\(k\)  “Qualifying complaint” means a complaint, submitted in writing,
that:

\(i\)    alleges a covered violation has occurred that pertains to
personal information of or about the complainant, a natural person,
reasonably believed to have been transferred to the United States from a
qualifying state after the effective date of the Attorney General’s
designation for such state, as provided in section 3(f)(i) of this
order;

\(ii\)   includes the following basic information to enable a review:
 information that forms the basis for alleging that a covered violation
has occurred, which need not demonstrate that the complainant’s data has
in fact been subject to United States signals intelligence activities;
the nature of the relief sought; the specific means by which personal
information of or about the complainant was believed to have been
transmitted to the United States; the identities of the United States
Government entities believed to be involved in the alleged violation (if
known); and any other measures the complainant pursued to obtain the
relief requested and the response received through those other measures;

(iii)  is not frivolous, vexatious, or made in bad faith;

\(iv\)   is brought on behalf of the complainant, acting on that
person’s own behalf, and not as a representative of a governmental,
nongovernmental, or intergovernmental organization; and

\(v\)    is transmitted by the appropriate public authority in a
qualifying state, after it has verified the identity of the complainant
and that the complaint satisfies the conditions of section 5(k)(i)-(iv)
of this order.

(l)  “Significant incident of non-compliance” shall mean a systemic or
intentional failure to comply with a principle, policy, or procedure of
applicable United States law that could impugn the reputation or
integrity of an element of the Intelligence Community or otherwise call
into question the propriety of an Intelligence Community activity,
including in light of any significant impact on the privacy and civil
liberties interests of the person or persons concerned.

\(m\)  “United States person” shall have the same meaning as it has in
Executive Order 12333.

(n)  “Validated intelligence priority” shall mean, for most United
States signals intelligence collection activities, a priority validated
under the process described in section 2(b)(iii) of this order; or, in
narrow circumstances (for example, when such process cannot be carried
out because of a need to address a new or evolving intelligence
requirement), shall mean a priority set by the President or the head of
an element of the Intelligence Community in accordance with the criteria
described in section 2(b)(iii)(A)(1)-(3) of this order to the extent
feasible.

(o)  “Weapons of mass destruction” shall have the same meaning as it has
in Executive Order 13526.

     Sec. 5.  General Provisions.  (a)  Nothing in this order shall be
construed to impair or otherwise affect:

\(i\)   the authority granted by law to an executive department, agency,
or the head thereof; or

(ii)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

(b)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law,
including orders of and procedures approved by the FISC, and subject to
the availability of appropriations.

(c)  Nothing in this order precludes the application of more
privacy-protective safeguards for United States signals intelligence
activities that would apply in the absence of this order.  In the case
of any conflict between this order and other applicable law, the more
privacy-protective safeguards shall govern the conduct of signals
intelligence activities, to the maximum extent allowed by law.

(d)  Nothing in this order prohibits elements of the Intelligence
Community from disseminating information relating to a crime for law
enforcement purposes; disseminating warnings of threats of killing,
serious bodily injury, or kidnapping; disseminating cyber threat,
incident, or intrusion response information; notifying victims or
warning potential victims of crime; or complying with dissemination
obligations required by statute, treaty, or court order, including
orders of and procedures approved by the FISC or other court orders.

(e)  The collection, retention, and dissemination of information
concerning United States persons is governed by multiple legal and
policy requirements, such as those required by FISA and Executive Order
12333.  This order is not intended to alter the rules applicable to
United States persons adopted pursuant to FISA, Executive Order 12333,
or other applicable law.

(f)  This order shall apply to signals intelligence activities
consistent with the scope of PPD-28’s application to such activities
prior to PPD-28’s partial revocation by the national security memorandum
issued concurrently with this order.  To implement this subsection, the
head of each agency containing an element of the Intelligence Community,
in consultation with the Attorney General and the Director, is hereby
delegated the authority to issue guidance, which may be classified, as
appropriate, as to the scope of application of this order with respect
to the element or elements of the Intelligence Community within their
agency.  The CLPO and the Data Protection Review Court, in carrying out
the functions assigned to it under this order, shall treat such guidance
as authoritative and binding.

(g)  Nothing in this order confers authority to declassify or disclose
classified national security information except as authorized pursuant
to Executive Order 13526 or any successor order.  Consistent with the
requirements of Executive Order 13526, the CLPO, the Data Protection
Review Court, and the special advocates shall not have authority to
declassify classified national security information, nor shall they
disclose any classified or otherwise privileged or protected information
except to authorized and appropriately cleared individuals who have a
need to know the information.     

(h)  This order creates an entitlement to submit qualifying complaints
to the CLPO and to obtain review of the CLPO’s decisions by the Data
Protection Review Court in accordance with the redress mechanism
established in section 3 of this order.  This order is not intended to,
and does not, create any other entitlement, right, or benefit,
substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity by any party
against the United States, its departments, agencies, or entities, its
officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.  This order is not
intended to, and does not, modify the availability or scope of any
judicial review of the decisions rendered through the redress mechanism,
which is governed by existing law.

                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.

THE WHITE HOUSE,

    October 7, 2022.
