---
date: '2024-03-29'
published_time: 2024-03-29 10:12:22-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/03/29/a-proclamation-on-national-child-abuse-prevention-month-2024/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Child Abuse Prevention Month,\_2024"
---
 
There is no greater sin than the abuse of power, especially when that
abuse is directed at a child.  During National Child Abuse Prevention
Month, we stand together to prevent abuse and neglect, support brave
survivors, and build strong communities and families where every child
can grow up happy and safe.

     For far too many children across America, the violence, fear, and
intimidation associated with physical and emotional abuse define their
most formative years.  The emotional scars can last a lifetime, making
it hard to form healthy relationships, upending their futures, and
perpetuating a toxic cycle of abuse.  As a United States Senator, I
fought to change that by writing and championing the Violence Against
Women Act (VAWA), the first law of its kind, which helped secure safety
and justice for women and children impacted by domestic violence.  Since
then, each time we reauthorized VAWA, we have made it stronger —
including in 2022, when we increased authorized resources available to
children who have been exposed to domestic violence and extended greater
jurisdiction to Tribal Courts prosecuting child abuse cases on their own
lands. 

     We are also working to prevent abuse and give survivors the
resources they need to heal and thrive. The American Rescue Plan
invested $350 million in improving child protective services at the
State level and in expanding local child abuse prevention programs. In
2022, I signed a bill that eliminates the Federal statute of limitations
for civil claims filed by survivors of child sexual abuse so they can
still pursue justice as adults.  The Department of Justice is also
investing in Children’s Advocacy Centers across the country to help law
enforcement investigate and prosecute child sexual abuse and
exploitation, including acts committed online.  The Department of
Homeland Security is launching a Government-led campaign to combat the
threat of child abuse and exploitation online, which will bring
awareness to this growing threat; teach children, parents, caregivers,
and educators how to report these crimes; and offer resources to
survivors.

     Every child in America deserves to grow up safe, supported, and
surrounded by love.  This month, we remember that we all play a part in
making that real.  For more information on how to recognize and report
child abuse or neglect and to support loving families and safe
communities visit childwelfare.gov.  
       
     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim April
2024 as National Child Abuse Prevention Month.  I call upon all
Americans to observe this month by joining together as a Nation to
promote the safety and well-being of all children and families and to
recognize the child welfare professionals and allies who work tirelessly
to protect our children.  Let us also honor the strength and resilience
of survivors of child abuse.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-ninth
day of March, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-four, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-eighth.  
   
   
   
                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.

  
 
