---
date: '2024-03-29'
published_time: 2024-03-29 10:11:45-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/03/29/a-proclamation-on-care-workers-recognition-month-2024/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Care Workers Recognition Month,\_2024"
---
 
Every day, care workers dedicate themselves to ensuring the people we
love are safe and secure.  They watch over our children, assist our
parents, and support loved ones with disabilities.  Their work makes all
other work possible.  During Care Workers Recognition Month, we honor
their tireless efforts; express our gratitude for their unwavering
devotion; and commit to ensuring they receive the pay, benefits, and
recognition they deserve.

The services care workers provide are not only essential to so many
lives — they are crucial for our economy.  But for too long, care
workers’ paychecks have not reflected the value of their demanding and
important work.  In fact, care workers are among the lowest paid workers
in the country.  Of the millions of care workers in our Nation, the
majority are women of color, deepening racial and gender wage and wealth
gaps.  Each year, half of the long-term care workforce and nearly
20 percent of the child care workforce end up leaving their jobs, which
makes it difficult for the families who depend on care workers to find
the stable and secure support they need.   

My Administration is committed to getting care workers the resources and
respect they deserve.  In 2021, we invested over $60 billion from our
American Rescue Plan in the care economy.  That funding helped keep
225,000 child care centers open during the COVID-19 pandemic, ensuring
that the 10 million children they served had a place to go.  It also
provided increased pay and bonuses and secured better benefits for child
care workers, helping hundreds of thousands of mothers with young
children enter or re-enter the workforce.  Through our expanded earned
income tax credit alone, we delivered financial relief to nearly 300,000
child care workers.  My Budget includes robust proposals in care
infrastructure, including through investments in caregiving for military
families and investments in child care to increase accessibility and
guarantee affordable, high-quality child care from birth until
kindergarten.

In addition, the Executive Order I signed last year includes the most
comprehensive set of actions any administration has taken to increase
access to high-quality care and support for caregivers.  It directs
almost every cabinet-level agency to take over 50 actions that provide
more peace of mind for families and more dignity for care workers who
deserve jobs with good pay and good benefits.  For example, the
Department of Health and Human Services released a proposed rule that
would raise Head Start teacher wages by more than $10,000 on average and
strengthen Head Start’s ability to recruit and retain staff.  Further, I
directed the Department of Veterans Affairs to give veterans who need
assistance at home more flexibility to pick their own caregivers.  The
Department of Labor has invested tens of millions of dollars in boosting
the quality of care jobs and expanding access to them. 

Additionally, agencies are working to improve the quality of home care
and nursing home jobs.  My Administration is taking steps to get home
care workers the pay they deserve by making sure they get a bigger share
of Medicaid payments, and to strengthen requirements for nursing homes
so that staff are not stretched thin and residents get the attention
they need.  My Administration is also promoting apprenticeship programs
that put careers as registered and licensed nurses within reach so that
we can both add and keep long-term care workers on the job.

Care workers are our Nation’s hidden heroes.  They support so many of
our families across the country, and it is our responsibility to ensure
that they are not left behind.  This Care Workers Recognition Month, in
addition to expressing our gratitude for their selfless dedication to
our loved ones and honoring their tremendous value to our society, we
also recommit to ensuring that they are rewarded for their extraordinary
contributions to America.  

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim April 2024 as Care
Workers Recognition Month.  I call upon all Americans to celebrate the
contributions of care workers to our Nation with appropriate ceremonies,
activities, and programs.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-ninth
day of March, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-four, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-eighth.

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.

  
 
