---
date: '2024-03-29'
modified_time: 2024-03-29 10:22:09-04:00
published_time: 2024-03-29 10:22:08-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/03/29/a-proclamation-on-arab-american-heritage-month-2024/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Arab American Heritage Month,\_2024"
---
 
     This month, we honor the rich heritage, history, and hopes of the
more than 3.5 million Arab Americans across our country who have helped
write the American story and move our Nation ever forward embodying the
truth that diversity has been and always will be our country’s greatest
strength.

     People with Arab heritage were among the many immigrants who came
to our country’s shores with a range of cultures, customs, backgrounds,
and beliefs, sharing a common courage to start new chapters in an
unfamiliar land.  As they built their lives, they helped build America —
from fighting for our independence in the Continental Army to serving
the cause of freedom during World War II to helping build cities and
communities across our Nation, often in the face of discrimination and
hate.

     This legacy of courage, resilience, and service lives on today in
Arab Americans across our country.  We see it in the brave Arab American
service members and public servants, who continue to defend our Nation’s
security and freedom.  We see it in the Arab American engineers,
scientists, and medical professionals, who are pioneering new
breakthroughs and charting a better future for all.  We see it in Arab
American business owners and entrepreneurs, who are creating jobs and
lifting up communities across the Nation.  We see it in Arab American
teachers and community leaders, who continue to inspire the next
generation.  And every day, I see it in the Arab Americans serving
throughout my Administration, who are helping us build a stronger, more
just Nation. 

     But as we come together this month to honor these contributions, we
must also pause to reflect on the pain being felt by so many in the Arab
American community with the war in Gaza. The trauma, death, and
destruction in Israel and Gaza have claimed, and continue to claim, far
too many innocent lives ‑- including family and friends of Arab
Americans across our Nation.  I am devastated by the suffering of so
many and mourn the lives taken, and I pray for the loved ones left
behind and for all the innocent men, women, and children living in dire
circumstances.

     My Administration is working with partners across the region to
respond to the urgent humanitarian crisis, deliver desperately needed
aid to Gaza, free the hostages taken during the brutal Hamas terrorist
attack on October 7th, and establish an immediate ceasefire that would
last at least six weeks, which we would work to build into something
more enduring.  We are also focused on ensuring that calm is maintained
and restored in neighboring states, including Lebanon. We must preserve
the space for peace — for a two-state solution with equal measures of
security and dignity for both Palestinians and Israelis.  We are
committed to working with the Arab American community, who remain
critical advocates for the Palestinian and Arab people and a just and
lasting peace.

     This challenge also reminds us of our responsibility as a Nation
here at home.  Across our country, Arab Americans remain the target of
bias and discrimination — including harassment, hate crimes, racist
rhetoric, and violent attacks. In recent months, a Palestinian child was
killed in his home, a young man was stabbed near a college campus, and a
group of students were shot while just walking down the street — tragic
reminders that hate never goes away. It only hides. It is up to all of
us to give hate no safe harbor.

     That is why we are fighting against the rise of all forms of hate,
including against Arab Americans.  On my first day in office, I
rescinded the discriminatory Muslim travel ban that prevented
individuals from primarily Middle Eastern and African countries from
entering the United States.  In 2022, my Administration convened the
first United We Stand Summit, which brought together interfaith leaders
to counter hate-motivated violence and foster unity.  We are also
developing our country’s first-ever National Strategy to Counter
Islamophobia and Related Forms of Bias and Discrimination in the United
States, which will identify concrete ways to address the scourge of hate
against Muslim, Sikh, South Asian, and Arab American communities.  To
ensure Arab Americans are fully represented, my Administration finalized
the addition of a new Middle Eastern and North African option for the
2030 census and other forms that ask for people’s race and ethnicity — a
vital step to ensure that Arab Americans are seen, counted, and valued
as new policy is being made.

     America is the only Nation in the world founded on an idea:  that
we are all created equal and deserve to be treated equally throughout
our lives.  We have never fully lived up to that promise, but we have
never walked away from it either.  This month, we vow that we never
will.  Together, we recommit to this promise of America by honoring and
advancing the dignity, equity, and security of Arab Americans across our
Nation.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim April
2024 as Arab American Heritage Month.  I call upon all Americans to
learn more about the history, culture, and achievements of Arab
Americans and to observe this month with appropriate programs and
activities.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
twenty-ninth day of March, in the year of our Lord
two thousand twenty-four, and of the Independence of the United States
of America the two hundred and forty-eighth.  
   
   
                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.

  
 
