---
date: '2024-03-06'
modified_time: 2024-03-06 09:46:12-05:00
published_time: 2024-03-06 10:00:00-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/03/06/executive-order-on-scaling-and-expanding-the-use-of-registered-apprenticeships-in-industries-and-the-federal-government-and-promoting-labor-management-forums/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "Executive Order on Scaling and Expanding the Use of Registered Apprenticeships\
  \ in Industries and the Federal Government and Promoting Labor-Management\_Forums"
---
 
 By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and the
laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered as follows:  

     Section 1.  Policy.  My Administration’s Investing in America
agenda includes a once-in-a-generation investment in our Nation’s
infrastructure.  This agenda is also driving the creation of well-paying
jobs and growing the economy sustainably and equitably, and it will
continue to do so for decades to come.  To fully realize the benefits of
these investments, students and workers at all stages of life need
equitable access to education and training for the good jobs in their
communities.

     Critical to achieving these goals is promoting Registered
Apprenticeships, as described in title 29, parts 29 and 30, of the Code
of Federal Regulations, which provide substantial benefits to both
workers and employers.  As the Nation’s largest employer and procurer of
goods and services, the Federal Government can be a model for the use
and promotion of skills-based hiring, such as the use of Registered
Apprenticeships, which reduces barriers to employment and attracts a
diverse workforce to meet our Nation’s critical needs.  My
Administration has made strengthening and empowering the Federal
workforce a management priority.  As a part of its overall strategy to
hire, retain, and develop the people needed to accomplish executive
department and agency (agency) missions and to create equitable,
transparent, and transferable career-development pathways, the Federal
Government can scale and expand Registered Apprenticeship programs to
modernize and broaden avenues to Federal jobs, thereby improving access
to opportunities for underserved workers.  

     Additionally, Labor-Management Forums provide an opportunity for
managers, employees, and employees’ union representatives to discuss how
Federal Government operations can promote satisfactory labor relations
and improve the productivity and effectiveness of the Federal
Government.  Labor-Management Forums, as complements to the existing
collective bargaining process, allow managers and employees to
collaborate in order to continue to deliver the highest quality goods
and services to the American people.  

     It is the policy of my Administration to promote Registered
Apprenticeships to meet employer needs while investing in workers’
skills; reducing employment barriers; and promoting job quality, equity,
inclusion, and accessibility for the benefit of the Federal Government
and the Nation.  Further, it is the policy of my Administration to
establish cooperative and productive labor-management relations
throughout the executive branch.

     Sec. 2.  Definitions.  For purposes of this order:

     (a)  The term “Registered Apprenticeship” means an industry-driven
career pathway through which employers can develop and prepare their
future workforces and individuals can obtain paid training, work
experience, progressive wage increases, classroom instruction, and a
portable, nationally recognized credential.  A Registered Apprenticeship
must meet the requirements for registration as set forth in 29 C.F.R.
parts 29 and 30.

     (b)  The term “Pre-Apprenticeship” has the meaning set forth in 29
C.F.R. 30.2.

     (c)  The term “Labor-Management Forum” means a nonadversarial forum
for managers, employees, and employees’ union representatives to discuss
how Federal Government operations can promote satisfactory labor
relations and improve the productivity and effectiveness of the Federal
Government.

     (d)  The term “agencies” means the Department of State, the
Department of the Treasury, the Department of Defense, the Department of
the Interior, the Department of Agriculture, the Department of Commerce,
the Department of Labor, the Department of Health and Human Services,
the Department of Housing and Urban Development, the Department of
Transportation, the Department of Energy, the Department of Education,
the Department of Veterans Affairs, the Department of Homeland Security,
the Environmental Protection Agency, the Office of Management and
Budget, the Office of the United States Trade Representative, the Office
of Science and Technology Policy, the Council on Environmental Quality,
the Office of National Drug Control Policy, the Office of the National
Cyber Director, the National Science Foundation, the National
Aeronautics and Space Administration, the Office of Personnel Management
(OPM), the General Services Administration, and the Corporation for
National and Community Service.  

     (e)  The term “participating agencies” means agencies led by the
heads of agencies listed in section 3(b) of this order.

     (f)  The term “interested agencies” means agencies as defined in
subsection (d) of this section, the heads of which are not listed in
section 3(b) of this order but that are interested in expanding the use
of Registered Apprenticeships by either adding Registered Apprenticeship
criteria to grants or contracts or including Registered Apprenticeship
career opportunities within their agency.

     (g)  The term “Labor-Management Forum agencies” means all agencies
subject to chapter 71 of title 5, United States Code.

     Sec. 3.  Registered Apprenticeship Interagency Working Group. 

\(a\)  There is established within the Executive Office of the President
the Registered Apprenticeship Interagency Working Group (Working Group).
 The function of the Working Group is to coordinate policy development
with regard to Registered Apprenticeships and the effective
implementation of this order.  The Director of the Office of Management
and Budget, the Assistant to the President for Economic Policy and
Director of the National Economic Council, and the Assistant to the
President and Director of the Domestic Policy Council shall serve as
Co-Chairs of the Working Group.  The Secretary of Labor and the Director
of OPM shall serve as Vice Chairs of the Working Group.  
  
     (b)  In addition to the Co-Chairs and Vice Chairs, the Working
Group shall consist of the following members:

          (i)      the Secretary of the Treasury;

          (ii)     the Secretary of Defense;

          (iii)    the Secretary of the Interior;

          (iv)     the Secretary of Agriculture;

          (v)      the Secretary of Commerce;

          (vi)     the Secretary of Health and Human Services;

          (vii)    the Secretary of Transportation;

          (viii)   the Secretary of Energy;

          (ix)     the Secretary of Education;

          (x)      the Secretary of Veterans Affairs;

          (xi)     the Secretary of Homeland Security;

          (xii)    the Administrator of the Environmental Protection
Agency;

          (xiii)   the Director of the Office of Science and Technology
Policy;

          (xiv)    the Assistant to the President and Director of the
Gender Policy Council;

          (xv)     the National Cyber Director;

          (xvi)    the Director of the National Science Foundation;

          (xvii)   the Administrator of the National Aeronautics and
Space Administration;

          (xviii)  the Administrator of General Services; and

          (xix)    the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation for
National and Community Service.  
  
The Co-Chairs may from time to time invite heads of interested agencies
to participate in the Working Group.

     (c)  The Working Group shall support the implementation of this
order by providing guidance and technical assistance to agencies.

     (d)  The Working Group shall submit an initial report to the
President within 180 days of the date of this order.  This report shall
contain:

          (i)    initial findings and recommendations on potential
opportunities for Registered Apprenticeship programs at participating
and interested agencies, including an assessment of the need for new
hiring and promotion authorities;

          (ii)   initial findings and recommendations on the promotion
of hiring and career advancement in the Federal Government for
individuals who have completed a Registered Apprenticeship;

          (iii)  an assessment of how Registered Apprenticeships may
enable agencies to address hiring needs and improve employee retention
for roles that are important to the mission of participating agencies
and the operations of the Federal Government; and

          (iv)   an assessment of how Registered Apprenticeships may
expand equity and accessibility and provide pathways into and up through
Federal employment for individuals in underserved communities.

     (e)  The Working Group shall assist agencies, consistent with
applicable law, in promoting and utilizing Registered Apprenticeships in
Federal grant programs and procurement as described in section 4 of this
order.  To do so, the Working Group:

          (i)    may consult with stakeholders from industry, education,
labor, and other areas of society to assess demand for Registered
Apprenticeships in specific occupations and sectors identified by the
Working Group;

          (ii)   shall review available data provided by the Department
of Labor and other relevant agencies on a periodic basis to evaluate the
prevalence and growth of Registered Apprenticeships in specific
occupations and sectors identified by the Working Group;

          (iii)  shall encourage the use of common reporting criteria to
support agency data collection and measurement of the utilization of
Registered Apprenticeships in grants and procurement, including, where
permissible, data on demographics and occupation;

          (iv)   shall collect information from participating agencies
on best practices for the utilization of Registered Apprenticeships in
grants and contracts, including for expanding job quality, equity, and
access to employment for all individuals in underserved communities,
and, consistent with applicable law, shall report this information
publicly to assist agencies in fulfilling their responsibilities under
this order;

         (v)    shall identify agency programs for which workforce
development, including use of Registered Apprenticeships, is an
allowable use of funds; and

          (vi)   shall identify agency programs for which grantees and
contractors could be provided incentives, consistent with agency
authorities, to adopt or expand Registered Apprenticeship programs for
their workforces.

     Sec. 4.  Procurement and Grants.  (a)  Agencies shall review their
Federal financial assistance programs and procurement plans and identify
where, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law, they could
include requirements, application evaluation factors, or incentives in
appropriate program documents or solicitations for grantees or
contractors to employ workers on projects receiving Federal funding who
are participating in, or who have completed, either a Registered
Apprenticeship or Pre-Apprenticeship.  
  
  (b)  Agencies shall, as appropriate and consistent with applicable
law, apply the requirements, application evaluation factors, or
incentives that they have identified pursuant to the review conducted in
subsection (a) of this section in appropriate program documents or
solicitations for grantees or contractors.  Agencies may consult the
Working Group for technical assistance and other appropriate support in
these efforts.  
  
  (c)  Agencies shall annually report to the Working Group on the
programs and solicitations that included the terms described in
subsection (a) of this section and the awards and contracts that
promoted the use of Registered Apprenticeships and Pre-Apprenticeships
pursuant to a requirement, application evaluation factor, or
incentive.  
  
Sec. 5.  Expanded Use of Registered Apprenticeships at Agencies.  Based
on recommendations from the initial report described in section 3(d) of
this order and in consultation with the Working Group, agencies, as part
of their strategic workforce planning, shall take steps to develop and
expand the use of Registered Apprenticeship programs, where practicable,
to train and develop incumbent workers and candidates for employment to
obtain the skills necessary to meet the current and emerging needs of
the agency workforce.  With respect to those programs:   
  
     (a)  Agencies shall identify, in consultation with OPM, existing
authorities that can support both the hiring of new employees for
Registered Apprenticeships and the training of incumbent workers through
Registered Apprenticeship programs.

     (b)  Based on recommendations from the initial report described in
section 3(d) of this order and in consultation with the Working Group,
agencies shall identify top occupations, including those occupations for
which the agency faces challenges in recruitment and training, for which
the agency may benefit from the use of Registered Apprenticeship
programs.  Any such actions shall be consistent with section 6 of
Executive Order 14035 of June 25, 2021 (Diversity, Equity, Inclusion,
and Accessibility in the Federal Workforce).

     (c)  Agencies shall develop outreach and recruitment strategies to
attract individuals who may not otherwise have considered a Registered
Apprenticeship program for Federal employment or advancement.

     (d)  In consultation with Federal unions through Labor-Management
Forums, agencies shall identify opportunities for current Federal
employees to access and benefit from a Registered Apprenticeship
program.

     (e)  Agencies shall establish training, mentorship, and
career-development services within Registered Apprenticeship programs to
support employee development and retention.

     Sec. 6.  Implementation of Labor-Management Forums Throughout the
Executive Branch. (a)  Executive Order 13812 of September 29, 2017
(Revocation of Executive Order Creating Labor-Management Forums), is
hereby revoked. 

     (b)  Each Labor-Management Forum agency, consistent with any
guidance issued by OPM, shall:

          (i)    establish Labor-Management Forums by creating joint
labor-management committees or councils at the levels of recognition and
other appropriate levels agreed to by the employee union and management,
or by adapting existing councils or committees if such groups exist, to
help identify problems and propose solutions to better serve the public
and agency mission;

          (ii)   allow employees and their union representatives to have
pre-decisional involvement in workplace matters, including consultation
on Registered Apprenticeship recommendations and discussions with
management for the development of joint solutions to workplace
challenges; and

         (iii)  evaluate and document, in consultation with union
representatives and any further guidance provided by OPM, changes in
employee satisfaction, manager satisfaction, and organizational
performance resulting from the Labor-Management Forums.

     (c)  Each head of a Labor-Management Forum agency for which there
exists one or more exclusive representatives, as defined in 5 U.S.C.
7103(a)(16), shall, in consultation with union representatives, prepare
and submit to OPM, within 180 days of the date of this order, a written
implementation plan that addresses the requirements of subsection (b) of
this section.  The Office of Personnel Management shall review each plan
within 60 days of receipt and shall determine whether to certify that
the plan satisfies the requirements of this order and any further
guidance issued by OPM.  Upon certification, the head of each
Labor-Management Forum agency shall ensure that the certified plan is
faithfully executed.  Any plan that is determined by OPM to be
insufficient shall be returned to the Labor-Management Forum agency with
guidance for improvement, and the agency shall resubmit its revised plan
to OPM within 30 days of receipt of the original plan from OPM.

Sec. 7.  General Provisions.  (a)  This order supersedes Executive Order
13522 of December 9, 2009 (Creating Labor-Management Forums to Improve
Delivery of Government Services).

     (b)  Nothing in this order shall abrogate any collective bargaining
agreements in effect as of the date of this order.

     (c)  Nothing in this order shall be construed to limit, preclude,
or prohibit the head of any executive department or agency from electing
to negotiate over any or all of the subjects set forth in 5 U.S.C.
7106(b)(1) in any negotiation.

     (d)  Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or
otherwise affect:

          (i)   the authority granted by law to an executive department
or agency, or the head thereof; or

          (ii)  the functions of the Director of the Office of
Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or
legislative proposals.

     (e)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law
and subject to the availability of appropriations.

     (f)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right
or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity
by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.  
  
  
  
                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.  
  
  
  
THE WHITE HOUSE,  
    March 6, 2024.
