---
date: '2024-03-29'
published_time: 2024-03-29 10:31:22-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/03/29/a-proclamation-on-cesar-chavez-day-2024/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Cesar Chavez Day,\_2024"
---
 
 Today, as we honor César Chávez’s life and legacy, we recommit to
fulfilling the fundamental vision of La Causa:  to give every worker the
dignity and respect they deserve and ensure everyone has a fair shot at
the American Dream.

     César Chávez defined extraordinary moral courage.  He was a migrant
farm worker who spent long, strenuous hours working in the fields.  He
and his fellow workers received unlivable wages and labored in unjust
working conditions.  Even then, a man of unyielding faith and an
immovable spirit, Chávez saw every reason to pursue what he knew was the
truth of this country:  The people who put food on America’s tables and
sustain our Nation deserve their fair share.  

     Alongside legendary activist Dolores Huerta, he founded the United
Farm Workers.  Ever since beginning their work in 1962, this union has
led legendary marches, strikes, and boycotts.  Chávez himself knocked on
doors for years and fasted for weeks on end to bring light to issues
facing farm workers.  Together, they made historic progress, like
earning farm workers the right to collectively bargain and ensuring safe
working conditions and better pay.  As a leader, Chávez not only
empowered tens of thousands of farm workers to make their voices heard,
he also inspired an entire generation of Latino leaders to forge a
better future for all of us.  

     I am proud to keep a bust of César Chávez in the Oval Office.  It
is a daily reminder of our shared commitment to America’s workers and
our labor unions.  My dad used to say that a job is about a lot more
than a paycheck — it is about dignity.  But if the paycheck is
insufficient and the working conditions are subpar, a job can never
offer someone the dignity they deserve.  That is why since day one of my
Administration, I have been working to build an economy that works for
everyone — one that grows from the middle out and the bottom up, not the
top down.  So far, the economy has created nearly 15 million jobs — one
of the greatest job creation periods in our Nation’s history.
 Unemployment has been below 4 percent for the longest stretch in 50
years.  America’s support for unions is higher today than at any time in
nearly 60 years.  All of this progress is proof that when America’s
unions do well, we all do well.  

     I am also proud to be the most pro-worker and pro-union President
in American history.  Since I took office, the Department of Labor has
recovered over $21 million in back pay and damages, ensuring that nearly
26,000 farm workers received the wages they earned.  My Administration
proposed a new rule last year that would extend overtime pay to as many
as 3.6 million workers, ensuring that they are compensated fairly for
the hours they spend at work.  I also signed into law the Butch Lewis
Emergency Pension Plan Relief Act, which protects pensions for millions
of union workers — one of the most significant achievements for union
workers and retirees in over 50 years.  The Department of Labor is also
working to protect workers exposed to extreme heat, including conducting
targeted inspections in industries with high incidences of heat-related
illnesses.  They published a rule that strengthens services to migrant
and seasonal farm workers by increasing outreach to farm workers and
requiring that outreach field visits involve conversations about farm
workers’ rights and protections. 

     Migrant workers can find helpful resources and more information
about their employment-related rights in America at MigrantWorker.gov or
Trabajadormigrante.gov.  These websites have information about
recruitment, working in America, returning home safely, and more.  

     I know that there is still work to be done to ensure that we are
taking care of our workers.  We need to finally provide undocumented
farm workers a pathway to citizenship.  That is why I continue to call
on the Congress to pass the Farm Workforce Modernization Act.  I also
believe every worker in America should have the free and fair choice to
join a union or organize and bargain collectively without employer
intimidation or coercion.  That is why I encouraged the Congress to pass
the Protecting the Right to Organize Act.  I remain steadfast in my call
to ensure paid sick leave for every worker in America and to improve
conditions for people who work on farms and ranches and across the food
and agricultural industry.  

     César Chávez once said about the power of La Causa:  “Once social
change begins it cannot be reversed.  You cannot uneducate the person
who has learned to read.  You cannot humiliate the person who feels
pride.  You cannot oppress the people who are not afraid anymore…you
cannot stamp out a people’s cause.”  On this day, we recognize that
César Chávez and his fellow farm workers made progress that can never be
taken back.  They fought for a sacred cause that continues to beat in
the hearts of the American people:  Every worker — no matter who they
are, where they are from, or what they do — deserves dignity and
respect. 

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim March
31, 2024, as César Chávez Day.  I call upon all Americans to observe
this day as a day of service and learning with appropriate service,
community, and education programs to honor César E. Chávez’s enduring
legacy.

    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
twenty-ninth day of March, in the year of our Lord two thousand
twenty-four, and of the Independence of the United States of America the
two hundred and forty-eighth.

                        JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.

  
 
