---
date: '2024-03-29'
modified_time: 2024-03-29 09:57:35-04:00
published_time: 2024-03-29 09:57:34-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/03/29/a-proclamation-on-transgender-day-of-visibility-2024/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Transgender Day of Visibility,\_2024"
---
 
On Transgender Day of Visibility, we honor the extraordinary courage and
contributions of transgender Americans and reaffirm our Nation’s
commitment to forming a more perfect Union — where all people are
created equal and treated equally throughout their lives.  

I am proud that my Administration has stood for justice from the start,
working to ensure that the LGBTQI+ community can live openly, in safety,
with dignity and respect.  I am proud to have appointed transgender
leaders to my Administration and to have ended the ban on transgender
Americans serving openly in our military.  I am proud to have signed
historic Executive Orders that strengthen civil rights protections in
housing, employment, health care, education, the justice system, and
more.  I am proud to have signed the Respect for Marriage Act into law,
ensuring that every American can marry the person they love. 

Transgender Americans are part of the fabric of our Nation.  Whether
serving their communities or in the military, raising families or
running businesses, they help America thrive.  They deserve, and are
entitled to, the same rights and freedoms as every other American,
including the most fundamental freedom to be their true selves.  But
extremists are proposing hundreds of hateful laws that target and
terrify transgender kids and their families — silencing teachers;
banning books; and even threatening parents, doctors, and nurses with
prison for helping parents get care for their children.  These bills
attack our most basic American values:  the freedom to be yourself, the
freedom to make your own health care decisions, and even the right to
raise your own child.  It is no surprise that the bullying and
discrimination that transgender Americans face is worsening our Nation’s
mental health crisis, leading half of transgender youth to consider
suicide in the past year.  At the same time, an epidemic of violence
against transgender women and girls, especially women and girls of
color, continues to take too many lives.  Let me be clear:  All of these
attacks are un-American and must end.  No one should have to be brave
just to be themselves.  

At the same time, my Administration is working to stop the bullying and
harassment of transgender children and their families.  The Department
of Justice has taken action to push back against extreme and un-American
State laws targeting transgender youth and their families and the
Department of Justice is partnering with law enforcement and community
groups to combat hate and violence.  My Administration is also providing
dedicated emergency mental health support through our nationwide suicide
and crisis lifeline — any LGBTQI+ young person in need can call “988”
and press “3” to speak with a counselor trained to support them.  We are
making public services more accessible for transgender Americans,
including with more inclusive passports and easier access to Social
Security benefits.  There is much more to do.  I continue to call on the
Congress to pass the Equality Act, to codify civil rights protections
for all LGBTQI+ Americans.

Today, we send a message to all transgender Americans:  You are loved.
 You are heard.  You are understood.  You belong.  You are America, and
my entire Administration and I have your back.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim March 31, 2024, as
Transgender Day of Visibility.  I call upon all Americans to join us in
lifting up the lives and voices of transgender people throughout our
Nation and to work toward eliminating violence and discrimination based
on gender identity.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-ninth
day of March, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-four, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-eighth.

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.

  
 
