---
date: '2024-03-26'
published_time: 2024-03-26 11:47:21-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/03/26/letter-to-the-speaker-of-the-house-and-president-of-the-senate-on-the-continuation-of-the-national-emergency-with-respect-to-significant-malicious-cyber-enabled-activities/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "Letter to the Speaker of the House and President of the Senate on the Continuation\
  \ of the National Emergency With Respect to Significant Malicious Cyber-Enabled\_\
  Activities"
---
 
Dear Mr. Speaker:   (Dear Madam President:)

Section 202(d) of the National Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1622(d))
provides for the automatic termination of a national emergency unless,
within 90 days prior to the anniversary date of its declaration, the
President publishes in the *Federal Register* and transmits to the
Congress a notice stating that the emergency is to continue in effect
beyond the anniversary date.  In accordance with this provision, I have
sent to the *Federal Register* for publication the enclosed notice
stating that the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13694 of
April 1, 2015, with respect to significant malicious cyber-enabled
activities, and with respect to which additional steps were taken in
Executive Order 13757 of December 28, 2016, is to continue in effect
beyond April 1, 2024.

Significant malicious cyber-enabled activities originating from, or
directed by persons located, in whole or in substantial part, outside
the United States continue to pose an unusual and extraordinary threat
to the national security, foreign policy, and economy of the United
States.  Therefore, I have determined that it is necessary to continue
the national emergency declared in Executive Order 13694 with respect to
significant malicious cyber-enabled activities.

                             Sincerely,

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
