---
date: '2024-03-04'
published_time: 2024-03-04 10:03:40-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/03/04/executive-order-on-the-termination-of-emergency-with-respect-to-the-situation-in-zimbabwe/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "Executive Order on the Termination of Emergency With Respect to the Situation\
  \ in\_Zimbabwe"
---
 
     By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and
the laws of the United States of America, including the International
Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 *etseq.*)*,* the National
Emergencies Act (50 U.S.C. 1601 *et seq.*) (NEA)*,* and section 301 of
title 3, United States Code,

     I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States of America,
find that the declaration of a national emergency in Executive Order
13288 of March 6, 2003, with respect to the actions and policies of
certain members of the Government of Zimbabwe and other persons to
undermine Zimbabwe’s democratic processes or institutions, as relied
upon for additional steps taken in Executive Order 13391 of November 22,
2005, and as expanded by Executive Order 13469 of July 25, 2008, should
no longer be in effect.  Although I continue to be concerned with the
situation in Zimbabwe, particularly with respect to acts of violence and
other human rights abuses against political opponents and with respect
to public corruption, including misuse of public authority, the
declaration of a national emergency in Executive Order 13288 is no
longer needed.  Accordingly, I hereby terminate the national emergency
declared in Executive Order 13288, and revoke that order, Executive
Order 13391, and Executive Order 13469, and further order:

     Section 1.  Pursuant to section 202(a) of the NEA (50 U.S.C.
1622(a)), termination of the national emergency declared in Executive
Order 13288, as relied upon for additional steps taken in Executive
Order 13391, and as expanded by Executive Order 13469, shall not affect
any action taken or proceeding pending not finally concluded or
determined as of the date of this order, any action or proceeding based
on any act committed prior to the date of this order, or any rights or
duties that matured or penalties that were incurred prior to the date of
this order.

     Sec. 2.  (a)  Nothing in this order shall be construed to impair or
otherwise affect:

          (i)   the authority granted by law to an executive department
or agency, or the head thereof; or

          (ii)  the functions of the Director of the Office of
Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or
legislative proposals.

     (b)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law
and subject to the availability of appropriations.

     (c)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right
or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity
by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.  
  
  
  
                                 JOSEPH B. BIDEN JR.  
  
  
  
THE WHITE HOUSE,  
    March 4, 2024.
