---
date: '2024-03-29'
published_time: 2024-03-29 10:03:49-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/03/29/a-proclamation-on-second-chance-month-2024/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Second Chance Month,\_2024"
---
 
     America was founded on the promise of new beginnings.  During
Second Chance Month, we recommit to building a criminal justice system
that lives up to those ideals so that people returning to their
communities from jail or prison have a fair shot at the American Dream.

     Every year, more than 650,000 people are released from State and
Federal prisons, some leaving with nothing more than a few dollars and a
bus ticket to start their new lives.  In total, over 70 million
Americans have a criminal history record, which can make it hard to
secure a steady job, safe housing, affordable health care, or a good
education — all important things to have when trying to build a good
life.  Studies show that when these needs are met, we do not just
empower formerly incarcerated people — we prevent crime and make our
communities safer.

     That is why, last year, my Administration released a comprehensive
strategic plan to improve the criminal justice system and strengthen
public safety. It includes over 100 concrete actions that my
Administration is taking to boost public safety by improving
rehabilitation in jails and prisons, helping people rebuild their lives,
and reducing unnecessary interactions with the criminal justice system
so police officers can focus on fighting crime.

     We have also invested nearly $1 billion in job training, addiction
recovery, and reentry services across the country, and we have expanded
access to Pell Grants so people can earn a college degree while they are
incarcerated, starting over with new skills.  We are also helping folks
find good-paying jobs rebuilding America on projects funded by our
historic infrastructure law and expanding opportunities to serve in the
Federal Government.  We are working to make sure those who have served
their time have an equal opportunity to obtain health care, housing,
education, and consideration for small business loans.  By meeting these
needs, we not only empower people to chase their dreams and fuel our
economy — we also prevent crime and make our communities safer and
stronger. 

      At the same time, my Administration has taken historic steps to
end America’s failed approach to marijuana.  Incarceration for marijuana
possession alone has destroyed too many lives, particularly for Black
and brown Americans, who have been arrested, prosecuted, and convicted
at higher rates than other racial and ethnic groups.  In 2022, I asked
the Secretary of Health and Human Services and the Attorney General to
start formally reviewing how marijuana is scheduled under Federal law.
 I have issued categorical pardons for people convicted for simple
possession and use under Federal and D.C. law while urging governors to
do the same on the State level.  It is simple:  No one should be in jail
or prison for using or possessing marijuana alone.  Meanwhile, my
Administration has made historic investments to expand access to mental
health and substance use services.  We have also provided $400 million
to prevent juvenile justice involvement and make these systems more
responsive to the needs of youth. We have provided over $3 billion in
funding for education programs that provide support, services, and
interventions, which keep students positively engaged in their schools
and communities.

    If we pursue this work together, our communities will be safer,
stronger, and more just.  It will make families and communities whole
and help grow our economy, giving everyone a fair chance.  I have always
believed that our Nation’s best days are ahead — and that is true for
every single American too. This month, we recommit to fulfilling the
fresh promise that every second chance holds.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim April
2024 as Second Chance Month.  I call upon government officials,
educators, volunteers, and all the people of the United States to
observe this month with appropriate programs, ceremonies, and
activities.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
twenty-ninth day of March, in the year of our Lord
two thousand twenty-four, and of the Independence of the United States
of America the two hundred and forty-eighth.  
   
   
                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.

  
 
