---
date: '2024-03-08'
published_time: 2024-03-08 09:47:08-05:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/03/08/a-proclamation-on-u-s-hostage-and-wrongful-detainee-day-2024/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on U.S. Hostage and Wrongful Detainee Day,\_2024"
---
 
     Today — and every day — the United States reaffirms our sacred
pledge to American hostages and detainees wrongfully held abroad:  We
see you.  We stand with you.  We will not stop working until you are
home and reunited with your family.  
  
     This has been a priority for my Administration since day one — and
we have made important progress.  Over the last 3 years, we have brought
home more than 60 Americans being held hostage or wrongfully detained
around the world, including from Afghanistan, Burma, Gaza, Haiti, Iran,
Russia, Rwanda, Venezuela, West Africa, and more.  But we have much more
work to do.  Too many Americans remain illegally and wrongfully
detained, fearing for their lives and not knowing what tomorrow will
bring.  Too many families remain ripped apart, living in agony and
uncertainty every day their loved one remains wrongfully held abroad.
 No family — and no American — should have to endure this suffering and
separation.  
  
     That is why my Administration has taken unprecedented action to
secure the release of all Americans held hostage or wrongfully detained
abroad.  In 2022, I signed an Executive Order to strengthen our efforts
to address the scourge of hostage-taking and wrongful detention,
including issuing more severe consequences for actors that illegally
detain American citizens and attempt to use human beings as bargaining
chips.  Last year, we issued the first-ever sanctions against actors —
including in Russia and Iran — for engaging in this abhorrent practice.
 My Administration has also focused on preventing these cases from
occurring in the first place.  We have joined 74 nations around the
world and the European Union in endorsing the Declaration Against
Arbitrary Detention.  Finally, we have focused on providing families
with loved ones held hostage or wrongfully detained abroad with the
resources and support services they deserve.  
  
     Here at home, the Department of State launched a risk indictor that
warns travelers if there is a high threat of wrongful detention at their
destination.  For more information on travel advisories, go to
travel.state.gov.  
  
     As President, I have no higher duty than ensuring the safety and
security of my fellow Americans — including all those who remain held
hostage or wrongfully detained abroad.  I will continue to work to bring
them home.  I will continue to leverage every resource to punish and
deter actors who engage in this despicable and unacceptable practice.  I
will not stop these efforts until every American is accounted for and
safely back home.  Today — and every day — that is my pledge.  
  
     The Congress, by Public Law 118-31 approved December 22, 2023, has
designated March 9 of each year as “U.S. Hostage and Wrongful Detainee
Day.”  
  
     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, do hereby proclaim March 9, 2024, as U.S. Hostage and
Wrongful Detainee Day.  On this day, as we fly the Hostage and Wrongful
Detainee flag at the White House, I call upon the people of the United
States to observe this day with relevant programs, ceremonies, and
activities.   
  
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this eighth day of
March, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-four, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-eighth.  
 

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
