---
date: '2024-03-19'
modified_time: 2024-03-19 09:52:52-04:00
published_time: 2024-03-19 09:52:36-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/03/19/a-proclamation-on-national-agriculture-day-2024/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Agriculture Day,\_2024"
---
 
On National Agriculture Day, we celebrate generations of American
farmers, farmworkers, fishers, ranchers, foresters, and all those who
work around the clock to put food on our tables and steward our Nation’s
lands.  They represent the best of America — pride in community, love of
family, and work ethic and strength that power our economy and help feed
the world.  

     Over the last few decades, the failed trickle-down economic
policies of the past have hit rural America especially hard.  They have
hollowed out communities, essentially telling farmers that the only path
forward is to “get big” or “get out.”  Food producers, meat processors,
and grocery chains have consolidated, undercutting small local
businesses and weakening the bargaining power of the farmers and
ranchers who supply large corporations with goods.  Meanwhile,
corporations that sell seeds, fertilizer, and even farm equipment have
used their own outsized market power to charge more even as farmers sold
their own goods for less.  Family farms have struggled, as the promise
of keeping a farm in the family is too often slipping out of reach.
 When family farms go by the wayside, the small businesses, hospitals,
and schools that depend on them suffer as well.  Across rural America,
thousands of young people have had to leave home to find a good-paying
job and a fair shot at the American Dream.  It is wrong.   

     I came to office determined to change that.  The historic
legislation I have signed is creating new income and new ways for new
generations of rural Americans to thrive.  We are investing in rural
America, creating new opportunities for farmers and ranchers nationwide.

     The Bipartisan Infrastructure Law is strengthening farm supply
chains by rebuilding roads, bridges, railways, ports, water systems, and
more.  It is bringing high-speed Internet to every household in America,
connecting rural communities to markets, customers, jobs, health care,
education, and opportunity.  The Inflation Reduction Act is investing
nearly $20 billion to help farmers and ranchers earn a living while also
helping to tackle the climate crisis, including adopting climate-smart
practices like cover crops, rotational grazing, and nutrient management.
 It is expanding renewable energy, including homegrown biofuels, which
is building a strong bio-economy for jobs of the future.  Together,
these laws are helping American farmers and ranchers remain strong and
competitive in the face of a changing climate — from investing in
watershed management and drought and flood protection to wildland fire
protection.  The Department of Agriculture (USDA) is providing billions
of dollars in assistance to farmers who have previously experienced
discrimination in their lending programs.

     At the same time, my Administration is working across the board to
promote competition and level the playing field for small farmers and
ranchers.  For example, the American Rescue Plan invested $1 billion in
independent meat processors to help ease conglomerates’ lock on the
market and help small- and mid-sized companies grow.  The USDA also
published a Packers and Stockyards Act final rule, which prohibits
discrimination, retaliation, and certain unfair practices in livestock,
meat, and poultry markets.  The USDA also finalized a rule to increase
transparency in the poultry tournament system so that growers have
important information about the terms of their agreements.  We have also
pushed to cut costs for farmers by promoting farmers’ “right to repair”
their own equipment, without having to send it back to the
manufacturer.  We are working to expand double cropping insurance so
farmers have the financial security they need to bear its risks and
boost production.   

     We are also standing up for the farm and food workers who form the
backbone of our Nation’s economy.  It is simple.  Every worker in
America deserves fair pay, safe conditions, and the free and fair choice
to join a union.  We promised to be the most pro-union Administration in
history — and we are delivering.  The USDA is also investing $45 million
into partnerships with workforce development experts to better train
agricultural employees.  But there is still more to do, like finally
providing undocumented farmworkers a pathway to citizenship.  Our
economy needs them, and they deserve dignity and respect. 

     It is simple:  American agriculture feeds our families and powers
our economy.  National Agriculture Day is about celebrating the strength
and tremendous contributions of our Nation’s farmers and ranchers and
making sure communities too long left behind have real reason to feel a
new sense of hope and pride.

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim March
19, 2024, as National Agriculture Day.  I call upon all Americans to
join me in recognizing and reaffirming our commitment to and
appreciation for our country’s farmers, farmworkers, ranchers, fishers,
foresters, and all those who work in the agricultural sector across the
Nation.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this eighteenth day
of March, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-four, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-eighth.  
   
   
   
   
                               JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.  
 
