---
date: '2024-03-22'
published_time: 2024-03-22 11:52:24-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/03/22/a-proclamation-on-greek-independence-day-a-national-day-of-celebration-of-greek-and-american-democracy-2024/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Greek Independence Day: A National Day of Celebration of\
  \ Greek and American Democracy,\_2024"
---
 
On this day more than 200 years ago, revolutionaries throughout Greece
rose up for the cause of freedom and declared their independence from
the Ottoman Empire.  Today, we honor the legacy of these courageous
Greek women and men and rededicate ourselves to the cause of liberty and
democracy for all.   
  
     Throughout our shared history, the people of Greece and the United
States have been bound by this common belief — the power to shape our
destiny should rest in the hands of “we the people.”  Generation after
generation, Americans and Greeks have come together to make those words
a reality.  We saw it during World War II, when our nations both fought
the forces of fascism.  We saw it during the Cold War, when our people
stood united to prevail against communism.  We see it today, as Greece
and America stand together alongside a coalition of more than 50 nations
to support the brave people of Ukraine as they fight for the same values
those Greek revolutionaries did more than 200 years ago:  liberty,
freedom, and sovereignty.    
  
     Today, the partnership, alliance, and friendship shared by Greece
and the United States is stronger than ever before — due in large part
to the culture, courage, and character of the Greek American community.
 From standing up for social justice and advancing civil rights to
striving to make our Nation freer and fairer, Greek Americans have
pushed our country forward, fanning the flame of liberty that first
sparked in Athens thousands of years ago.  Throughout my career, I have
been lucky to see this heart, hope, and commitment up close, and I have
drawn lifelong inspiration from Greek American friends, families,
leaders, and political mentors.    
  
     Today and every day, let us celebrate the unbreakable bonds of
friendship shared by the United States and the Hellenic Republic.  Let
us continue to draw strength from the ideas put forth and the example
set by our two countries.  Guided by our highest hopes and ideals, let
us recommit to preserving, defending, and protecting democracy —
together.  
  
     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim March
25, 2024, as Greek Independence Day:  A National Day of Celebration of
Greek and American Democracy.  I call upon the people of the United
States to observe this day with appropriate ceremonies and activities.  
  
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-second
day of March, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-four, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-eighth.  
   
   
                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.  
   
  
  
 
