---
date: '2024-03-29'
modified_time: 2024-03-29 10:59:59-04:00
published_time: 2024-03-29 10:27:52-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/03/29/a-proclamation-on-cancer-control-month-2024/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Cancer Prevention and Early Detection Month,\_\
  2024"
---
 
     Cancer has touched nearly every American family.  During National
Cancer Prevention and Early Detection Month, we honor the enormous
courage and strength of the millions of Americans facing the disease
today and of the many millions of survivors, whose resilience inspires
us all.  Together, we will end cancer as we know it and get patients and
families the quality care and support that they deserve.

In recent decades, we have made enormous progress toward beating
cancer.  In addition to new medicines and therapies, we have developed
early detection methods and discovered prevention measures that extend
and save lives.  Studies have shown that over 30 percent of cancers
diagnosed today could be prevented through methods like decreasing
environmental and toxic exposures to carcinogens and making lifestyle
changes like reducing tobacco use and improving nutrition.  Still,
cancer is the second-leading cause of death in our country.

I came to office determined to change that.  Beating cancer is personal
to my family, as it is to millions of families across America and around
the world.  That is why the First Lady and I re-ignited the Cancer
Moonshot.  The goal is to cut the cancer death rate by at least 50
percent in the next 25 years — starting by preventing the cancers we
know we can stop and catching others as early as possible.  We are also
working to turn more cancers from death sentences into chronic diseases
that people can live with and to create more supportive experiences for
patients and their families.  To help achieve that, I established the
Advanced Research Projects Agency for Health, securing $4 billion in
bipartisan funding to date to help the scientists, innovators, and
public health professionals who are working day and night to improve the
prevention, detection, and treatment of cancers and other deadly
diseases.  We are not just working toward incremental changes — we are
looking for quantum leaps forward.  

It is important for every American to know that cancer screenings are
lifesaving — early detection can make all the difference in beating the
disease.  That is why my Administration is working to ensure that every
American can get them.  During my first year in office, we expanded
coverage under the Affordable Care Act, which requires insurers to pay
for cancer screenings and primary care visits.  More Americans have
insurance than under any President, ensuring that millions of Americans
now have health coverage for those services and more.  My Administration
is also helping millions of families save an average of $800 per year on
their health insurance premiums.  To increase access to early detection,
my Administration has partnered with community health centers to provide
screenings closer to folks’ homes, and we extended health care coverage
for lung cancer screenings.  Further, we have closed loopholes so that
new stool-based screening tests and follow-up screenings do not lead to
surprise costs for patients undergoing colonoscopies.  Eliminating these
barriers to screenings will save and extend countless lives.  To learn
your personal risk factors and know which screenings are right for you,
please talk to your health care provider, visit cdc.gov/cancerscreening
or cancer.gov/screeningtests, or call 1‑800-4-CANCER for more
information.  We encourage everyone to schedule routine cancer screening
appointments.

At the same time, healthy life habits — like maintaining a healthy body
weight and reducing exposure to tobacco smoke — can prevent certain
cancers, so we are working to help all Americans get and stay healthy.
Our National Strategy on Hunger, Nutrition, and Health supports
expanding incentives to purchase fruits and vegetables with SNAP,
ensures more kids have access to free and nutritious school lunches, and
expands access to nutrition and obesity counseling. For help with
quitting smoking — the leading cause of cancer in America — visit
SmokeFree.gov, call 1-800-QUIT-NOW, or text QUITNOW to 333888.

My Administration is working to reduce Americans’ exposure to
environmental toxins that can lead to cancer.  Through our Bipartisan
Infrastructure Law, my Administration has invested billions of dollars
to clean up toxic sites and help States replace lead pipes and service
lines, protecting millions of families from exposure to so-called
“forever chemicals” and other contaminants that increase people’s risk
of getting cancer.  I was also proud to sign the PACT Act, ensuring that
veterans exposed to toxic substances during their military service get
the cancer care and benefits that they deserve.

Ending cancer is the kind of big and ambitious goal that America has
always embraced.  For the patients fighting for a better day, the
survivors who give us strength, the caregivers who share their hearts,
the lives we have lost, and the lives we can save, let us recommit to
this vital work.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, do hereby proclaim April 2024 as National Cancer Prevention
and Early Detection Month. I encourage citizens, government agencies,
private businesses, nonprofit organizations, and other interested groups
to join in activities that will increase awareness of what Americans can
do to prevent, detect, and beat cancer.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-ninth
day of March, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-four, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-eighth.

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
