---
date: '2024-03-18'
published_time: 2024-03-18 13:24:17-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/03/18/executive-order-on-advancing-womens-health-research-and-innovation/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "Executive Order on Advancing Women\u2019s Health Research and\_Innovation"
---
 
    By the authority vested in me as President by the Constitution and
the laws of the United States of America, it is hereby ordered as
follows:

     Section 1.  Policy.  My Administration is committed to getting
women the answers they need about their health.  For far too long,
scientific and biomedical research excluded women and undervalued the
study of women’s health.  The resulting research gaps mean that we know
far too little about women’s health across women’s lifespans, and those
gaps are even more prominent for women of color, older women, and women
with disabilities.  

     The notion of including women in clinical trials used to be
revolutionary — which means many diagnostics and treatments were
developed without women in mind and thus failed to account for women’s
health.  Over 30 years ago, the Congress passed the landmark National
Institutes of Health Revitalization Act of 1993 (Public Law 103-43) to
direct the National Institutes of Health (NIH), the largest public
funder of biomedical research in the world, to include women and people
of color in NIH-funded clinical research.  In 2016, the Congress built
on these requirements in the 21st Century Cures Act (Public Law
114-255), which directed the NIH to further its pursuit of women’s
health research, including by strengthening clinical trial inclusion and
data analysis, developing research and data standards to advance the
study of women’s health, and improving NIH-wide coordination on women’s
health research.

     These policies led to significant increases in women’s
participation in clinical trials, and ongoing investments in biomedical
research have supported breakthroughs in women’s health.  Through the
discovery of genetic factors that increase the risk of breast cancer and
innovations in mammography, we have transformed our approach to
prevention, early detection, and treatment, and have improved outcomes
for women facing a breast cancer diagnosis.  We have improved access to
life-saving treatments for women with severe heart failure by ensuring
that the devices they need are the right size for a woman’s body.  We
have also identified some of the most characteristic symptoms of heart
attack in women, which are different from those in men — discoveries
that have helped deliver faster treatment to women when every second
counts.  This is what we can achieve when we invest in women’s health
research.

     It is time, once again, to pioneer the next generation of
discoveries in women’s health.  My Administration seeks to fundamentally
change how we approach and fund women’s health research in the United
States.  That is why I established the first-ever White House Initiative
on Women’s Health Research (Initiative) — which is within the Office of
the First Lady and includes a wide array of executive departments and
agencies (agencies) and White House offices — to accelerate research
that will provide the tools we need to prevent, diagnose, and treat
conditions that affect women uniquely, disproportionately, or
differently.

     Together with the First Lady’s tireless efforts, the Initiative is
already galvanizing the Federal Government to advance women’s health,
including through investments in innovation and improved coordination
within and across agencies.  We are also mobilizing leaders across a
wide range of sectors, including industry, philanthropy, and the medical
and research communities, to improve women’s health.

     It is the policy of my Administration to advance women’s health
research, close health disparities, and ensure that the gains we make in
research laboratories are translated into real-world clinical benefits
for women.  It is also the policy of my Administration to ensure that
women have access to high-quality, evidence-based health care and to
improve health outcomes for women across their lifespans and throughout
the country.

     I will continue to call on the Congress to provide the
transformative investments necessary to help our researchers and
scientists answer today’s most pressing questions related to women’s
health.  Investing in innovation in women’s health is an investment in
the future of American families and the economy.  At the same time,
agencies must use their existing authorities to advance and integrate
women’s health across the Federal research portfolio, close research
gaps, and make investments that maximize our ability to prevent,
diagnose, and treat health conditions in women. 

     Sec. 2.  Definitions.  For purposes of this order:

     (a)  The term “women’s health research” means research aimed at
expanding knowledge of women’s health across their lifespans, which
includes the study and analysis of conditions specific to women,
conditions that disproportionately impact women, and conditions that
affect women differently.

     (b)  The term “White House Initiative on Women’s Health Research”
means the interagency, advisory body established by the Presidential
Memorandum of November 13, 2023 (White House Initiative on Women’s
Health Research), to advance women’s health research.

     (c)  The term “agency Members of the Initiative” refers to the
Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of Agriculture, the Secretary of
Health and Human Services, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, the
Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, and the Director
of the National Science Foundation.

     Sec. 3.  Further Integrating Women’s Health Research in Federal
Research Programs.  (a)  Building on research and data standards issued
by the NIH in 2016, agency Members of the Initiative shall consider
actions to develop or strengthen research and data standards that
enhance the study of women’s health across all relevant, federally
funded research and other Federal funding opportunities.  Agency Members
of the Initiative shall consider issuing new guidance, application
materials, reporting requirements, and research dissemination strategies
to advance the study of women’s health, including to:

(i)    require applicants for Federal research funding, as appropriate,
to explain how their proposed study designs will consider and advance
our knowledge of women’s health, including through the adoption of
standard application language;

(ii)   consider women’s health, as appropriate, during the evaluation of
research proposals that address medical conditions that may affect women
differently or disproportionately;

(iii)  improve accountability for grant recipients, including, as
appropriate, by requiring regular reporting on their implementation of,
and compliance with, research and data standards related to women’s
health, including compliance with recruitment milestones; and

(iv)   improve the recruitment, enrollment, and retention of women in
clinical trials, including, as appropriate, by reducing barriers through
technological and data sciences advances.

(b)  Within 30 days of the date of this order, the Chair of the
Initiative and the Director of the NIH Office of Research on Women’s
Health, in consultation with the Director of the Office of Management
and Budget (OMB), shall establish and co-chair a subgroup of the
Initiative to promote interagency alignment and consistency in the
development of agency research and data standards to enhance the study
of women’s health.

     (c)  Within 90 days of the date of this order, agency Members of
the Initiative shall report to the Chair of the Initiative on actions
taken to strengthen research and data standards to enhance the study and
analysis of women’s health and related conditions.

(d)  Within 180 days of the date of this order and on an annual basis
thereafter, agency Members of the Initiative shall report to the
President on the status of implementation of research and data
standards.

     Sec. 4.  Prioritizing Federal Investments in Women’s Health
Research.  (a)  Agency Members of the Initiative shall identify and, as
appropriate and consistent with applicable law, prioritize grantmaking
and other awards to advance women’s health research, with an emphasis
on:

(i)    promoting collaborative, interdisciplinary research across fields
and areas of expertise;

(ii)   addressing health disparities and inequities affecting women,
including those related to race, ethnicity, age, socioeconomic status,
disability, and exposure to environmental factors and contaminants that
can directly affect health; and

(iii)  supporting the translation of research advancements into improved
health outcomes.

(b)  Agency Members of the Initiative shall take steps to promote the
availability of federally funded research and other Federal funding
opportunities to advance women’s health, including through the
development and inclusion of standard language related to women’s
health, as appropriate, in all relevant notices of funding opportunity
and through better facilitating potential grant applicants’ access to
information about funding opportunities related to women’s health
research.

     (c)  To advance innovation, commercialization, and risk mitigation,
agency Members of the Initiative shall:

(i)    identify and, as appropriate and consistent with applicable law,
seek ways to use innovation funds, challenges, prizes, and other
mechanisms to spur innovation in women’s health;

(ii)   invest in innovation to accelerate women’s health research,
including through or in collaboration with the Advanced Research
Projects Agency for Health and the Congressionally Directed Medical
Research Programs;

(iii)  support the role of small businesses and entrepreneurs in
advancing innovation in women’s health research, including through Small
Business Innovation Research Programs and Small Business Technology
Transfer Programs; and

\(iv\)   invest in translational science to convert research findings
and discoveries into treatments and interventions that improve women’s
health outcomes and reduce health disparities, including through the
Department of Agriculture National Institute of Food and Agriculture
research programs.

\(d\)  In implementing section 8(b) of Executive Order 14110 of October
30, 2023 (Safe, Secure, and Trustworthy Development and Use of
Artificial Intelligence), the Secretary of Health and Human Services, in
consultation with the Director of the National Science Foundation, shall
consider the opportunities for and challenges that affect women’s health
research in the responsible deployment and use of artificial
intelligence (AI) and AI-enabled technologies in the health and human
services sector.

     Sec. 5.  Galvanizing Research on Women’s Midlife Health.  (a)
 Within 90 days of the date of this order, to address research gaps in
understanding women’s health and diseases and conditions associated with
women’s midlife and later years, the Secretary of Health and Human
Services shall:

(i)    launch a comprehensive assessment of the current state of the
science on menopause to develop an evidence-based research agenda that
will guide Federal and private sector investments in menopause-related
research;

(ii)   evaluate evidence-based interventions and strategies to improve
women’s experiences in the menopausal and perimenopausal periods,
including the delivery of treatments for women experiencing menopause in
clinical care settings;

(iii)  consider developing new common data elements and survey tools to
expand the ethical and equitable collection of data on issues related to
women’s midlife health; and

(iv)   develop new comprehensive resources to help ensure that the
public has evidence-based information about menopause, including
menopause-related research initiatives, findings, and symptom-prevention
and treatment options.

(b)  The Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of Veterans Affairs
shall evaluate the needs of women service members and veterans related
to midlife health and shall develop recommendations to support improved
treatment and targeted research of midlife health issues, including
menopausal symptoms.

     Sec. 6.  Assessing Unmet Needs to Support Women’s Health Research. 
The Director of OMB and the Assistant to the President and Director of
the Gender Policy Council (Directors) shall lead an effort, in
collaboration with the Initiative, to identify current gaps in Federal
funding for women’s health research and shall submit recommendations to
the President describing the additional funding and programming
necessary to catalyze research on women’s health, including in priority
areas within women’s health as identified by the Initiative, as follows:

     (a)  Within 90 days of the date of this order, the Directors shall,
in consultation with the Initiative, develop guidance for assessing
additional funding that agencies need to close research gaps in women’s
health.

     (b)  Within 180 days of the date of this order, Members of the
Initiative shall consult the guidance described in subsection (a) of
this section and shall each submit a report to the Directors that
identifies the funding needed to catalyze research on women’s health.

     (c)  Based on the reports described in subsection (b) of this
section, the Directors shall develop and submit recommendations to the
President on steps the Federal Government should take to catalyze
research on women’s health.  These recommendations shall identify any
statutory, regulatory, budgetary, or other changes that may be necessary
to ensure that Federal laws, policies, practices, and programs support
women’s health research more effectively.

     (d)  Following the submission of the recommendations described in
subsection (c) of this section, each Member of the Initiative shall
report annually to the Directors on progress made in response to those
recommendations and to improve the study of women’s health.  The
Director of OMB shall provide a summary of Members’ progress and any new
recommendations to the President on an annual basis, consult with each
Member on their women’s health research funding needs during the annual
budget process, and calculate Federal funding for women’s health
research on an annual basis.

     Sec. 7.  General Provisions.  (a)  Nothing in this order shall be
construed to impair or otherwise affect:  
(i)   the authority granted by law to an executive department or agency,
or the head thereof; or

\(ii\)  the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and
Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.

     (b)  This order shall be implemented consistent with applicable law
and subject to the availability of appropriations.

     (c)  This order is not intended to, and does not, create any right
or benefit, substantive or procedural, enforceable at law or in equity
by any party against the United States, its departments, agencies, or
entities, its officers, employees, or agents, or any other person.  
  
  
  
                                   JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.  
  
  
  
THE WHITE HOUSE,  
    March 18, 2024.
