---
date: '2024-03-01'
published_time: 2024-03-01 10:31:58-05:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/03/01/a-proclamation-on-national-consumer-protection-week-2024/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Consumer Protection Week,\_2024"
---
 
     As my Administration continues to build an economy that works for
everyone, we cannot let fraud, cybercrimes, or unfair business practices
interrupt the progress we have made.  During National Consumer
Protection Week, we recommit to protecting the rights of consumers and
spreading awareness about the resources people have to defend themselves
from predatory acts.

     Since I took office, we have made enormous progress in building an
economy from the middle out and the bottom up.  To date, we have created
nearly 15 million jobs, driven stable economic growth, and brought down
inflation by two-thirds from its peak.  Still, I know we have more work
to do to protect the progress we have made by defending American
consumers from unfair business practices.

     In my first year in office, I issued an Executive Order on
Promoting Competition in the American Economy, which directs and
encourages Federal agencies to find ways to address powerful
corporations’ use of their market dominance to inflate prices of
consumer goods and services.  These corporations are also decreasing the
quality of goods and services, deterring innovation, and limiting job
mobility.  Since then, agencies across the Federal Government have taken
decisive action to encourage competition and lower costs for American
households. 

     The Department of Justice and the Federal Trade Commission (FTC)
are cracking down on anticompetitive mergers, price fixing and price
gouging, and other unfair practices that harm consumers.  The Department
of Agriculture has joined the effort to enforce antitrust and consumer
protection laws in food and agriculture, which not only protect American
families but farmers as well.  At the same time, the FTC is working on a
rule that would, if finalized as proposed, put an end to noncompete
agreements, which restrict 30 million workers from switching jobs, even
if they have opportunities that offer better pay and benefits.  The FTC
is also engaged in a rulemaking that proposes to require that companies
make it as easy to cancel an online enrollment as it was to sign up so
you are not left paying unwanted subscription fees because of a
difficult cancellation process.  The FTC is working with law enforcement
to counter predatory student loan scams, mortgage scams, and identity
theft.

     My Administration is fighting to eliminate hidden junk fees that
some banks, airlines, health care companies, and other organizations use
to rip off their customers.  Since 2021, 15 of the 20 largest banks have
responded to my call to stop charging customers for bounced checks and
reduce overdraft fees, saving Americans $5.5 billion annually in
eliminated junk fees.  The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB)
has proposed a rule that will slash credit card late fees from an
average of $31 when I took office to a new cap of $8, which will save
Americans more than $9 billion annually.  The CFPB is also taking steps
to cut the average overdraft fee by more than half, down from its
typical amount of over $30, a move that would save $150 per year for the
more than 20 million households that pay these fees.  The CFPB has also
banned banks and credit unions from charging fees for basic services,
like checking an account balance or retrieving old bank records.  In
addition, it has proposed a new rule that would make it easier for
customers to switch banks, encouraging them to compete for customers
based on the quality of their services.  

     The Department of Labor proposed a new rule that would, if
finalized as proposed, minimize junk fees in retirement products by
requiring financial advisers to provide retirement advice in the best
interest of the saver.  The Department of Health and Human Services and
the Department of the Treasury have proposed a rule that would protect
Americans from getting ripped off by health plans offering junk
insurance that discriminate based on pre-existing conditions and trick
consumers into buying insurance that provides little or no coverage when
they need it most.  Further, the Department of Transportation has
challenged airlines to improve unfair business practices.  Some airlines
have already responded by eliminating fees that charge parents just to
sit next to their child on a plane.  Many have also begun guaranteeing
free rebooking and reimbursement for hotels, meals, and ground
transportation if a flight cancellation or delay is the airline’s fault.
 Just last year, we saw the lowest rate of flight cancellations in a
decade.  

     The FTC has enhanced its translation resources to make it easier
for consumers to submit fraud reports and learn how to spot and avoid
scams in languages other than English.  Meanwhile, we are continuing to
work with partners across the Government and in our communities to
amplify and expand language access for consumers.  Last year, the FTC
proposed a rule that would ban hidden fees across the economy and
require all companies to show consumers the all-in pricing of products
upfront.

     The American people should never be played like suckers.  It is up
to each of us to protect one another from harmful anticompetitive
business practices.  This National Consumer Protection Week, I encourage
every American to visit consumer.ftc.gov to learn more about the
resources available to defend the rights of consumers.  I also encourage
people to report cases of suspected fraud, issues with a consumer
financial product, aggressive debt collection, inaccurate credit
reporting, or unfair medical billing and other issues by visiting
consumerfinance.gov/complaint online.  

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim March
3, 2024, through March 9, 2024, as National Consumer Protection Week.  I
call upon government officials, industry leaders, and advocates across
the Nation to share information about consumer protection and provide
our citizens with information about their rights as consumers.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this first day of
March, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-four, and of the
Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-eighth.  

                              JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
