---
date: '2024-03-29'
published_time: 2024-03-29 10:39:55-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/03/29/a-proclamation-on-national-sexual-assault-awareness-and-prevention-month-2024/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Sexual Assault Awareness and Prevention Month,\_\
  2024"
---
 
     Sexual violence affects every community in this Nation, leaving
millions of Americans — our neighbors, friends, colleagues, and loved
ones — scarred.  For many survivors, healing can take years, and for
some, the pain never heals completely.  During National Sexual Assault
Awareness and Prevention Month, we recommit to standing with survivors,
holding perpetrators accountable, and bringing an end to a culture that
has allowed sexual assault to occur for far too long.

     More than half of all women and nearly one-third of all men in
America have experienced sexual violence. The rate of sexual violence is
even higher for people of color.  Survivors have faced this violence
wherever life happens — at work, at school, at home, and online.  It can
upend people’s jobs and contribute to mental health issues like
depression, anxiety, and post-traumatic stress disorder.  It is an
insult to our most basic humanity and everything we stand for as a
Nation. 

     Ending gender-based violence has been the cause of my life.  Thirty
years ago, as a United States Senator, I wrote and championed the
original Violence Against Women Act (VAWA).  This law gave us the tools
to prevent and prosecute sexual assault, provide support for survivors,
and save lives.  Every time we have re-authorized it, we have made it
stronger.  In December 2022, we secured $700 million for VAWA programs —
the highest funding level in history — for the next fiscal year.  Those
funds have helped strengthen the public health response for domestic
violence and sexual assault survivors and their children, and expand
access to sexual assault medical forensic examinations and culturally
specific resources for LGBTQI+ survivors, rural areas, and other
underserved and marginalized communities.  The reauthorization also
established a new offense for Federal law enforcement officers who
commit sexual misconduct under color of law and expanded Tribal
jurisdiction so that non-Native perpetrators of sexual assault can be
prosecuted for crimes they commit on Tribal lands. 

     My Administration has made ending gender-based violence a top
priority in many other ways too.  Our American Rescue Plan delivered $1
billion in funding for rape crisis centers, community support
organizations, and other sexual violence services nationwide.  We
released the first-ever National Plan to End Gender-Based Violence,
advancing a comprehensive Government-wide approach to preventing and
addressing gender-based violence across the country.  When we passed the
most significant gun law in nearly 30 years, we narrowed the so-called
“boyfriend loophole,” keeping guns out of the hands of domestic abusers.
 To combat online harassment and abuse, I worked with Vice President
Kamala Harris to launch a Federal task force that has taken concrete
steps on prevention, accountability, research, and support for survivors
and launched the first 24/7 national helpline for survivors of
image-based sexual abuse. 

     We are also ensuring people are safe from abuse at school and work.
 I signed an Executive Order that called on the Department of Education
to protect students from discrimination based on sex, including
sex-based harassment and sexual violence, and I remain steadfast in my
commitment to ensuring all students have an educational environment free
from discrimination.  I have also signed laws limiting the enforcement
of non-disclosure agreements for those who have been sexually assaulted
or harassed in the workplace and ending forced arbitration so that
survivors can get their day in court.  Additionally, I have asked that
Federal agencies take action to make leave more accessible for employees
seeking safety and recovering from gender-based violence.  Furthermore,
I have spearheaded historic military justice reforms to better protect
survivors in our military and ensure that prosecutorial decisions in
cases of gender-based violence are fully independent from the chain of
command.  

     This National Sexual Assault Awareness and Prevention Month, let us
each recommit to stepping up and doing our part to intervene in,
prevent, and end sexual assault in our communities.  Let us redouble our
efforts to support and stand with survivors of sexual assault.  Let us
pledge to work together to create a society that is truly safe, where
all Americans can pursue their dreams without fear of assault, abuse, or
harassment. 

     NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United
States of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the
Constitution and laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim April
2024 as National Sexual Assault Awareness and Prevention Month.  I urge
all Americans to support sexual assault survivors, including when
survivors reach out and disclose abuse, and to strengthen our efforts to
prevent this abuse in the first place.

    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this  
twenty-ninth day of March, in the year of our Lord two thousand
twenty-four, and of the Independence of the United States of America the
two hundred and forty-eighth.

                        JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.
