---
date: '2024-03-29'
published_time: 2024-03-29 10:19:56-04:00
source_url: https://www.whitehouse.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/03/29/a-proclamation-on-national-public-health-week-2024/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on National Public Health Week,\_2024"
---
 
During National Public Health Week, we celebrate the life-saving care of
public health professionals who work tirelessly to promote our country’s
health, safety, and well-being.  We recognize that the healthier
Americans are as individuals, the stronger we are as a Nation. 

In the last few years, we have made enormous progress in recovering from
the pandemic, vaccinating 230 million Americans and getting kids back in
school.  None of that would have been possible without the courage and
dedication of millions of first responders and social workers, doctors
and nurses, and scientists and researchers.  Public health professionals
have always played an essential role in the life of our Nation — working
to boost immunizations, improve safety standards for food and
transportation, protect clean air and water, and more.  We owe them for
carrying us through tough times and making our country healthier and
more prosperous long-term.  We have to help make their jobs easier by
investing in the health of the American people.

I have long said that health care should be a right in this country, not
a privilege.  That is why my Administration expanded coverage through
the Affordable Care Act.  Today, more Americans have health care
coverage than under any other President, and millions of families are
saving an average of $800 per year on insurance premiums.  We have also
invested $7.6 billion in community health centers so people in rural and
underserved areas can get care close to home.  After years of trying, we
have succeeded in reducing prescription drug costs — for example,
capping insulin at $35 per month for seniors on Medicare, down from as
much as $400, and finally getting Medicare the authority to negotiate
lower drug prices, as the Department of Defense and the Department of
Veterans Affairs have long done.  Starting next year, no senior on
Medicare will have to pay more than $2,000 per year in total
out-of-pocket drug costs — not even for expensive cancer medications
that cost many times more.

At the same time, we are funding scientific research that will help us
make quantum leaps forward in the prevention, detection, and treatment
of deadly diseases.  I established the Advanced Research Projects Agency
for Health, securing $2.5 billion in bipartisan funding for scientists,
innovators, and public health professionals making these advances. 
Further, the First Lady and I reignited the Cancer Moonshot, setting a
bold goal to cut the cancer death rate by at least 50 percent over the
next 25 years and boost support for people impacted by cancer.  We also
launched the first-ever White House Initiative on Women’s Health
Research to close research gaps and maximize our ability to prevent,
diagnose, and treat health conditions in women, like cardiovascular
disease, Alzheimer’s disease, and endometriosis.

I am doing all I can to protect women’s fundamental freedom to make
their own health care decisions.  In the wake of the Supreme Court’s
decision to overturn the constitutional right to choose, tens of
millions of Americans are living under extreme State abortion bans that
put women’s health and lives at risk and threaten doctors with jail time
for providing the health care their patients need.  In response, my
Administration has taken steps to safeguard access to emergency medical
care, support the ability to travel for reproductive health care, and
strengthen privacy protections for patients and health care providers.
 I will keep pressing the Congress to restore the protections of *Roe v.
Wade* into Federal law.  It is the only way to ensure reproductive
freedom for women in every State.  At the same time, Vice President
Harris is leading the effort to combat the maternal health crisis that
is gripping our country, which has been especially devastating to Black
and Native women and women in rural communities, where maternal
mortality rates are unconscionably high.

We are also making historic investments in improving mental health by
putting more counselors in schools and pushing insurers to cover mental
health care at the same level as any other care.

We are working hard to ensure that substance use disorder is treated
like any other disease by funding the expansion of prevention, harm
reduction, treatment, and recovery support services.  My Administration
removed decades-long administrative barriers to treatment of opioid use
disorder and expanded access to opioid overdose reversal medications
like naloxone, and we are continuing to advance efforts to address the
overdose epidemic and save lives.  We are working to end the epidemic of
gun violence that has shattered far too many American lives.  Two
summers ago, I signed the most significant gun safety law in nearly 30
years, funding States’ implementation of red flag laws and enhancing
background checks for gun buyers under 21.  I launched the first-ever
White House Office of Gun Violence Prevention.  I was also proud to sign
the reauthorized Violence Against Women Act, building on the law that I
first wrote years ago to expand protections and resources for today’s
domestic violence survivors. 

Meanwhile, my Administration is making the largest investment ever in
fighting the public health crises caused by climate change.  We are
working to make communities more resilient to extreme weather and
ensuring that 40 percent of our clean energy investments flow to the
disadvantaged areas that have borne the brunt of toxic pollution for too
long.  Through the Bipartisan Infrastructure Law, we are also replacing
every poisonous lead pipe in the country so anyone in America can turn
on the faucet and drink clean water.  We have released a national
strategy to end hunger and reduce diet-related diseases, including
expanding access to nutrition and obesity counseling, and we are
providing millions of students with free, nutritious school meals.

Globally, we are making key investments to combat health challenges like
HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis, malaria, cancer, and COVID.  With the G20 and
other partners, we created the Pandemic Fund to strengthen global
pandemic preparedness, prevention, and response.  At home, we invested
over $7 billion to help State and local public health departments
prepare for future crises, and we launched Public Health AmeriCorps to
train a strong, diverse public health workforce for tomorrow.

These are vital steps needed to protect the American people.  During
National Public Health Week, we are reminded how interconnected
everyone’s health and well-being are and that we are truly all in this
together.  By continuing to invest in public health, we can help ensure
that the lessons of the last 4 years make our Nation stronger for the
future.

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and the laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim April 1 through
April 7, 2024, as National Public Health Week.  I call on all citizens,
government agencies, private businesses, nonprofit organizations, and
other groups to take action to improve the health of our Nation.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-ninth
day of March, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-four, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-eighth.

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.

  
 
