---
date: '2024-03-29'
published_time: 2024-03-29 10:04:08-04:00
source_url: https://bidenwhitehouse.archives.gov/briefing-room/presidential-actions/2024/03/29/a-proclamation-on-month-of-the-military-child-2024/
tags: presidential-actions
title: "A Proclamation on Month of the Military Child,\_2024"
---
 
This April, we celebrate children of our service members and veterans
whose sacrifice and support allow their parents to serve our Nation and
protect children everywhere.

Over the years, the First Lady and I have had the honor of meeting with
military and veteran children from every corner of our Nation and
witnessing their incredible sense of duty firsthand.  These young
patriots often pack up their lives every few years, starting new schools
and making new friends.  From watching our own grandchildren, we also
know that military children embody courage and selflessness, remaining
brave when their moms or dads are deployed and remaining resilient when
celebrating birthdays and holidays with an empty seat at the dinner
table.  Military and veteran children also take care of loved ones who
are wounded, ill, or injured — and far too many grow up with the
unbearable pain of losing a parent.  It is a solemn reminder that being
a military child means sacrificing for our country without ever wearing
a uniform.  

Our Nation has many obligations, but we have only one truly sacred
obligation:  to prepare and equip those we send into harm’s way and to
care for them and their families — especially our military children —
while deployed and when they return home.  That is why I signed an
Executive Order last year that establishes the most comprehensive set of
administrative actions in our Nation’s history to support the economic
security of military and veteran spouses, caregivers, and survivors —
including improving access to quality, dependable, and affordable child
care.  My Administration expanded the Military Parental Leave Program,
ensuring that service members have the time they need with their
families after a child’s birth, adoption, or long-term foster care
placement.  We are working to guarantee universal pre-kindergarten for
military children at Department of Defense schools.  We have begun that
work by launching a pilot program at a school in Japan.  The First
Lady’s Joining Forces initiative is providing support to military
children by improving economic opportunity for military families, making
school transitions easier, and expanding resources to promote their
families’ health and well-being.

Military children embody the very best of America — shouldering the
unique challenges military life places on families across our Nation and
around the world with tenacity.  This month — and every month — we honor
their bravery and show our gratitude to the children of our military
service members and veterans for their own service to our Nation. 

NOW, THEREFORE, I, JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR., President of the United States
of America, by virtue of the authority vested in me by the Constitution
and laws of the United States, do hereby proclaim April 2024 as the
Month of the Military Child.  I call upon the people of the United
States to honor the children of our service members and veterans with
appropriate ceremonies and activities.  I also encourage Americans
everywhere to find ways to support military-connected children,
including by wearing purple during the month of April in honor of their
service.

     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto set my hand this twenty-ninth
day of March, in the year of our Lord two thousand twenty-four, and of
the Independence of the United States of America the two hundred and
forty-eighth.

                             JOSEPH R. BIDEN JR.

  
 
